I.  Disciplinarized knowledge
Maria Załęska
University of Warsaw
Rhetorical approaches towards knowledge
Abstract: The chapter explores rhetoric and knowledge relationships, from the idea that
rhetoric may convey only common knowledge to the view that any kind of knowledge,
also scientific one, mobilizes rhetorical resources. The paper focuses on differences among
selected disciplinary approaches – the General, the Cognitive and the Epistemic Rhetoric –
which explicitly address knowledge issues.
1. Introduction
In the so-called knowledge society, its definitory issue – knowledge – is intensely
studied. The linguistic, discursive and rhetorical aspects of accessing, modeling,
representing and communicating knowledge often overlap. In this context, it is
interesting to examine the status of rhetoric. The polysemy of the word ‘rheto-
ric’ provokes sometimes the error of equivocation between the object-level of
practice and the meta-level of its theorization. This linguistic problem reveals
also the conceptual one: what kind of knowledge is subsumed under the term
‘rhetoric’? Is it (and should it be) only tacit knowledge that manifests as a skill?
Or, in spite of the objections formulated since antiquity, can it (and should it) be
also a full-blown discipline of study? If so, how is it articulated internally? What
constitutes its peculiarity, with respect to the neighboring areas of research, such
as Discourse Analysis?
For the sake of clarity, in order to avoid the above-mentioned error of equivo-
cation, a graphical convention is adopted: ‘rhetoric,’ with minuscule, refers to the
practice of persuasive communication, while ‘Rhetoric,’ with majuscule, to the
discipline of research that studies it. This chapter addresses some peculiarities of
rhetorical approaches towards knowledge from two complementary perspectives.
The first one concentrates on rhetoric and knowledge (section 2). This section
shows the evolution of ideas about the practice of rhetoric, first advised only as
a way of persuading for non-knowledgeable audiences, and nowadays regarded
as a universal way of communication, also with knowledgeable audiences. The
second perspective concentrates instead on Rhetoric and knowledge (section 3).
Rhetoric, as any discipline of knowledge, develops thanks to the elaboration of
different theoretical frameworks. Some of them take ‘knowledge’ as an object of
Maria Załęska
32
their research. For reasons of limited space, only a few frameworks will be ad-
dressed (section 4): mainstream General Rhetoric (4.1) and two more profiled
approaches that explicitly concentrate on knowledge-related issues: Cognitive
Rhetoric (section 4.2) and Epistemic Rhetoric (section 4.3).
2.  Rhetoric-as-practice in relation to knowledge
The polysemy of the term ‘rhetoric’ in its current uses is illustrated by the follow-
ing quotation:
[…] rhetoric is at once an embedded cultural practice and inventive attitude which allows
us to reflect critically upon those very same cultural practices. Like other classical terms
philosophy and medicine, rhetoric can refer to a concrete practice (“mere rhetoric”) […],
a discursive quality (“the rhetoric of passions”), and a theory (the content of Aristotle’s
Rhetoric). Like classical poetics, the inventive attitude distinguishes rhetoric from phi-
losophy, which has the basic attitude of description, and from medicine, which shares
with rhetoric the basic attitude of intervention. (Gross 2006: 10)
From the plethora of meanings, for the scope of this overview only two are rel-
evant. The first one is ‘rhetoric’ as practice (a counterpart of the above-mentioned
‘discourse’). It is treated here as a neutral term, without the negative connotation
conveyed by the expression “mere rhetoric.” The second one is ‘Rhetoric’ as a dis-
cipline that stems from the reflection of ancient rhetoricians and that, nowadays,
often overlaps with Discourse Analysis (see below).
Aristotle (Retorica 1335b) defines ‘rhetoric’ in the inventive terms, as the capac-
ity of finding available means likely to persuade in reference to each argument.
Thus, rhetoric is treated as an intellectual ability to be creative in finding resources
needed to manage in conditions of uncertainty. Such an intellectual ability is
reputed to be common to all people:
Rhetoric is the counterpart of dialectic. Both alike are concerned with such things as
come, more or less, within the general ken of all men and belong to no definite science.
Accordingly all men make use, more or less, of both: for to a certain extent all men attempt
to discuss statements and to maintain them, to defend themselves and to attack others.
Ordinary people do this either at random or through practice and from acquired habit.
(Aristotle, Rhetoric 1354; emphasis mine)
The last sentence would suggest that it is a kind of tacit or “unknown knowledge,”
without conscious reflection: one not necessarily is aware of using rhetoric, like
Monsieur Jourdain, a character of Molière’s drama The Bourgeois Gentleman, was
not aware of using prose.
The idea that rhetoric is first of all an intellectual ability, involved in seeking
and elaborating knowledge, is underlined also in modern approaches:
Rhetorical approaches towards knowledge 33
Rhetoric is a mode of thinking or a mode of “finding all available means” for the achieve-
ment of a designated end. Accordingly, rhetoric concerns itself basically with what goes
in the mind rather than what comes out of the mouth. […] Rhetoric is concerned with
factors of analysis, data gathering, interpretation, and synthesis. […] What we notice in
the environment and how we notice it are both predetermined to a significant degree by
how we are prepared to notice this particular type of object. (Oliver 1965: x–xi, quoted
in Kaplan 1972: 6)
However, as its etymology reveals (Gr. rhesis ‘speech,’ from PIE *wre-tor-, from
root *were- ‘to speak’1
), rhetoric is first of all the art of speaking. Without exter-
nalizing one’s thoughts, it would be impossible to communicate, to share knowl-
edge, to persuade each other. In the logocentric terms, rhetoric is the practice of
intentional, intelligent communication meant to be persuasive. Already the first
teaching handbooks of rhetoric take into account the knowledgeability factor.
There are two main competing visions of rhetoric.
According to the traditional one, rhetoric is a way of persuasive speaking
that excludes anything more than “democratic” common knowledge. Curiously,
knowledge may reveal a serious obstacle in the process of persuasion. When a
rhetor’s knowledge is superior to that of his audience, this difference, if perceived,
can risk hindering emotional identification of the hearer with the speaker. An
educated rhetor tends, indeed, to reason in more abstract terms than the standard
of his2
audience admits. Since this requires from the audience intellectual effort,
it is likely to turn counterproductive:
[…] we must not carry […] reasoning too far back, or the length of our argument will
cause obscurity; nor must we put in all the steps that lead to our conclusion, or we shall
waste words in saying what is manifest. It is this simplicity that makes the uneducated
more effective than the educated when addressing popular audiences – makes them, as the
poets tell us, ‘charm the crowd’s ears more finely’. Educated men lay down broad general
principles; uneducated men argue from common knowledge and draw obvious conclusions.
(Aristotle, Rhetoric 1395b 22–30; emphasis mine)
If the rhetor, however, tries to make use of his peculiar knowledge resources, he
should beware that such a technique of persuading is very risky:
Moreover, before some audiences not even the possession of the exactest knowledge will
make it easy for what we say to produce conviction. For argument based on knowledge
implies instruction, and there are people whom one cannot instruct. Here, then, we must
1	http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?term=rhetoric
2	 In the cultural ambiance of ancient Greece, where the foundations of rhetoric were set
down, the authorized speaker was only he, not she.
Maria Załęska
34
use, as our modes of persuasion and argument, notions possessed by everybody […].
(Aristotle, Rhetoric 1355; emphasis mine)
The non-knowledgeable, or even ignorant, audience refuses an intellectual lan-
guage that is not fully comprehensible for them. Therefore, the more advanced
techniques of reasoning are likely to fail in front of the average audience:
The duty of rhetoric is to deal with such matters as we deliberate upon without arts or
systems to guide us, in the hearing of persons who cannot take in at a glance a complicated
argument, or follow a long chain of reasoning. […] It is possible to form deductions and
draw conclusions from the results of previous deductions; or, on the other hand, from
premises which have not been thus proved, and at the same time are not reputable and so
call for proof. Reasonings of the former kind will necessarily be hard to follow owing to
their length, for we assume an audience of untrained thinkers; those of the latter kind will
fail to be persuasive, because they are based on premises that are not generally admitted
or reputable. (Aristotle, Rhetoric 1357a; emphasis mine)
Within this approach, the intellectual resource involved in the use of rhetoric is
“practical judgment,” i.e., the faculty shared by all people (see, e.g., Garsten 2006).
This practical judgement is applied in situations of epistemic uncertainty: when
the initial data are likely to be interpreted in divergent ways and when, even after
argumentation, one can achieve but a probabilistic account of reality.
Summing up, the universality of rhetoric conceived in such a way results from
the reliance on common resources, excluding by definition the access to special-
ized knowledge. Therefore, any way of reasoning that is made “with arts or systems
to guide us” – such as theoretical frameworks or sets of concepts – is treated as
alien to rhetoric.
An alternative account, also based on the formulations from ancient works,
sees the universality of rhetoric not in the commonly available resources, but in
its adaptability to whichever conditions of communication:
[Rhetoric’s] function is not simply to succeed in persuading, but rather to discover the
persuasive facts in each case. […] Rhetoric may be defined as the faculty of observing
in any given case the available means of persuasion. (Aristotle, Rhetoric 1355; emphasis
mine)
If rhetoric is treated as an art of finding whatever might be persuasive to whichever
audience, be it ignorant or knowledgeable, and in any circumstance, the different
situations incite only to choose the appropriate rhetorical means. Therefore, also
the ways of reasoning that are made “with arts or systems to guide us” – such as
disciplinary conceptual frameworks or special topoi – are included within rheto-
ric. Such a vision of rhetoric permits to consider its use not only in terms of “prac-
tical judgement,” but also in situations where also theoretical reasoning is needed.
Rhetorical approaches towards knowledge 35
This modified account of rhetoric is paralleled by a modified account of sci-
ence. It is no more conceived as an area of undisputable certainty (episteme).
Within science not only demonstration, but also argumentation reveals to play
an important role. Interestingly, even the use of argumentation is not necessarily
reputed as definitory for rhetoric. Therefore, the very possibility of the “rhetoric
of science” is put into question:
One sort of enthymeme really belongs to rhetoric; but the other sort really belongs to other
arts and faculties, whether to those we already exercise or to those we have not yet ac-
quired. Hence they are not noticed by the audience […] and, touching on them more than
is appropriate, they [i.e. speakers] get away from them [i.e. from dialectics and rhetoric].
[…] I mean that the proper subjects of […] rhetorical deductions are the things which
we say the commonplaces are concerned […]. […] The general commonplaces have no
special subject-matter, and therefore will not increase our understanding of any particular
class of things. On the other hand, the better the selection one makes of propositions suitable
for special commonplaces the nearer one comes, unconsciously, to setting up a science that is
distinct from […] rhetoric. One may succeed in stating the required principles, but one’s
science will be no longer […] rhetoric, but the science to which the principles thus discovered
belong. (Aristotle, Rhetoric 1358; emphasis mine)
According to this approach, the disciplines belong to the “other arts and faculties”
that have their particular methodologies and theoretical frameworks. In disciplinary
argumentation, scholars may use apparently the same technical means as those
that are applied in rhetoric, i.e., enthymemes and commonplaces. However, if the
universality of rhetoric is defined in terms of the common resources that increase
common knowledge, such argumentation is excluded by definition from the realm
of rhetoric.
Instead, if the universality of rhetoric is defined in terms of the adaptability of
the resources to the variegated, specialized conditions of communication, such an
argumentation is included into the realm of rhetoric. The specialized enthymemes,
the “special commonplaces,” the “field-dependent rules” (in the terminology of
Toulmin, Rieke and Janik 1984: 17) become a legitimate extension of the “com-
mon rules” (such as logic). Within this approach, the status of rhetoric of inquiry
(or rhetoric of science) is no longer put into question (Prelli 1989).
The growing awareness that the scientific cognition is mediated by culture,
society, language and dominant epistemic paradigms invites caution. Contrary
to the popular saying, the facts do not speak for themselves. Similarly, since the
scientific methods depend on epistemic paradigms, they do not guarantee the
objective truth, but an account from a certain point of view. The understanding
of a phenomenon is a matter of interpretation. Any scholar tries to convince the
peers that s/he proposes the best one, giving the evidence available at a moment.
Maria Załęska
36
The history of science is thus seen as a history of scholarly persuasion about what
counts as truthful (see Shapin 1994), with the essential role of rhetoric.
3.  Rhetoric as a discipline of knowledge
The above-mentioned polysemy of ‘rhetoric’ blurs the difference between the two
meanings of the term: as practice and as scholarly discipline. What is more, the
very possibility of Rhetoric as discipline has been strongly contested.
Indeed, in the ancient times, the handbooks and treatises of rhetoric repre-
sented quite a practical approach. The systematizations and advice were meant
to optimalize practice of persuasive speaking – and only this. The enumeration,
definition and classification of the themes involved in persuasion:
[…] does not belong to the art of rhetoric, but to a more instructive art and a more real
branch of knowledge; and as it is, rhetoric has been given a far wider subject-matter than
strictly belongs to it. […] rhetoric is a combination of the sciences of logic and of ethics
[…]. But the more we try to make either dialectic or rhetoric not, what they are, practical
faculties, but sciences, the more we shall inadvertently be destroying their true nature; for
we shall be re-fashioning them and shall be passing into the region of sciences dealing with
definite subjects rather than simply with speeches. (Aristotle, Rhetoric 1359; emphasis mine)
In modern times, one trend continues this type of praxeological reflection. It aims
at perfectioning the practice of persuasion through self-help books, handbooks and
courses. Such a reflection is expected to generate practical solutions for the rhetors.
However, with time, a new “science” actually emerged: Rhetoric, different in its
“nature,” goals and scope from rhetoric meant as “practical faculties.” The activities
of a new professional figure – a rhetorician (who not necessarily is a practicing
rhetor) – consist in elaborating theoretico-analytical tools, such as frameworks,
conceptual distinctions or terminologies that make intelligible the practices of
persuasion. As any other professional group of scholars, also rhetoricians produce
their own disciplinary rhetoric, with its specific means that suggest accepting one
theoretical framework rather than another.
Transcending its disciplinary boundaries, Rhetoric has also become one of the
culture key terms. The “rhetorical turn” (e.g., Simons 1990) is one of the cultural
turns (such as linguistic turn3
or visual turn). Bachman-Medick (2012) points out
that the cultural turns are characterized by transdisciplinary vocabularies and by
specific conceptual foci, applied transversally to different disciplines. The essential
feature of the cultural turns, according to Bachman-Medick, is a qualitative shift:
3	 In some accounts, the literary turn and the rhetorical turn are but variants of the lin-
guistic turn.
Rhetorical approaches towards knowledge 37
what originally was an analysed object (e.g., language, text, rhetoric, image, etc.)
becomes instead a category of analysis, applied to interpret other objects within
the respective disciplines. Such a central category (e.g., language, text, rhetoric,
etc.) generates relevant conceptual vocabulary that attracts attention to the same
notions. Within their own disciplines (e.g., Linguistics, Rhetoric, Text Linguistics)
these concepts have their own definitions and create together a peculiar termi-
nological web. Within the respective cultural turns, instead, they are used in an
operational way, as analytical categories that have strong methodological poten-
tial, and that transcend the thematic fixation of their disciplines of provenance
(Bachman-Medick 2012: 37–38).
For example, Rhetoric furnishes rich conceptual vocabulary that is used in
different disciplines. In some cases insufficient knowledge of the rhetorical ap-
proach produces very superficial accounts which are rightly criticized. In others,
the competent use of the rhetorical framework permits to capture very complex
phenomena which have not been noticed without its analytical categories.
The frequency of the term ‘rhetoric’ in the titles and contents of different pa-
pers suggests the popularity of the rhetorical approach as an insightful perspective
also for specialists of other disciplines. Discussing the rhetorical turn, Gaonkar
(1998: 175) distinguishes its two versions: implicit and explicit. While the explicit
rhetorical turn is far more visible, the implicit rhetorical turn, according to the
author, is even more important.
Gaonkar (1998: 169) includes among representatives of the implicit rhetorical
turn researchers “innocent or ignorant of rhetoric” (i.e., Rhetoric, following the
graphical convention adopted here). Although they do not use the conceptual and
terminological framework of Rhetoric, they, however, address the fundamental
questions which are constitutive for Rhetoric.4
According to the author, the es-
sential criterion, which allows certain books to be treated as manifestations of the
implicit rhetorical turn is logocentrism: the scholarly interest in the universe of
language rather than in the extratextual reality.
Among scholars that address the relation of knowledge and language as rep-
resentatives of the implicit rhetorical turn, Gaonkar (1998) lists the philosophers
4	 The idea that one may be “innocent or ignorant” of a discipline and notwithstanding
contribute to its development raises many questions concerning the overall epistemic
problems of specialized knowledge. Is the notion of ‘discipline’ necessary? What does
constitute a discipline? How do disciplines evolve? Can one fruitfully practice “Rhetoric
without Rhetoric,” “Linguistics without Linguistics,” “Chemistry without Chemistry”?
The discussion of these problems, albeit very interesting, is, however, out of the scope
of this chapter.
Maria Załęska
38
such as Foucault (1969), who authored Archeology of Knowledge (Archéologie
du savoir); Kuhn (1970), whose work The Structure of Scientific Revolutions is a
seminal contribution to the rhetorical turn; Habermas (1975 [1973]), with his
Legitimation Crisis; or Feyerabend (1975), whose work Against Method invites to
return to the common sense, i.e., the basis of rhetoric. His list might be extended
to include different other names (e.g., Fleck [1935] 2006 and 2007 whose ideas
inspired Kuhn 1970; see also Wagner this volume).
Among the scholars who overtly recognized the relevance of the rhetorical ap-
proach in research on the modern ways of thinking (including the scientific one)
Gaonkar lists, for example, Richards (1936); Weaver (1948; [1953] 1985; [1957]
1967); Burke ([1945] 1969; [1950] 1967; 1966); Perelman and Olbrechts-Tyteca
(1958) or McKeon (1987).
Among the representatives of the explicit rhetorical turn who explore the Rheto-
ric of Inquiry (see below), Gaonkar includes the rhetoricians such as Simons (1980);
Miller (1984; 1994a; 1994b); McCloskey ([1985] 1988); Nelson and Megill (1986);
Nelson, Megill, McCloskey eds. (1987); Campbell (1987); Gross (1996; 2006); Coe
(1994); see also texts collected in Simons ed. (1989).
4. 
Rhetoric and its subdisciplines in reference to
knowledge issues
In the subsequent part of this chapter, a few trends of Rhetoric will be discussed.
The common thread is their interest in the question of knowledge. Rhetoricians’
concern for the practices of communicating knowledge embraces all its manifesta-
tions: from the shared knowledge and practical reason of the non-knowledgeable
audience to the advanced, highly specialized disciplinary knowledge and theoreti-
cal ways of reasoning.
The theoretical and methodological directions of research concerning the
knowledge-related problems within Rhetoric are highly variegated. At the level
of nomenclature, the difference regards both temporal and conceptual categories
(Ancient Rhetoric vs. New Rhetoric). In the different variants of the New Rhetoric,
developed from the midst of the 20th
century, the adjective ‘new’ is expected to
underline different aspects of innovation with respect to the classical framework
of Ancient Rhetoric.
The Ancient Rhetoric may be called General Rhetoric (analogously to General
Linguistics), since it offers the basic conceptual framework expected to be known
by all rhetoricians (see 4.1). What is called New Rhetoric embraces, from one part,
an innovative, neo-aristotelian approach towards argumentation (Perelman and
Rhetorical approaches towards knowledge 39
Olbrechts-Tyteca 1958), and, from the other, the interest in literacy issues and dis-
course analysis, characteristic of the New Rhetoric approach in the USA.
Among the new theoretical and methodological frameworks, I will briefly outline
only two that seem the most relevant for the knowledge-related issues. Cognitive
Rhetoric explores the activities of knowing, especially in terms of mental and
psychological factors (see 4.2). Epistemic Rhetoric examines rather knowledge
itself, seen from the perspective of its social settings (see 4.3). A part of these
methodological approaches is devoted to a peculiar kind of knowledge: scien-
tific knowledge, expressed through the means of the rhetoric of inquiry (or, more
narrowly, the rhetoric of science). The rhetoric of inquiry is further differentiated
into rhetorics of various disciplines: rhetoric of sociology (Edmondson 1984), of
economy (McCloskey [1985] 1988), of philosophy (Frogel 2005), of linguistics
(Załęska 2014), to mention just a few.
All these approaches partialy overlap with the frameworks proposed within
Discourse Analysis. What is more, they hardly appear in pure forms. Each research
constitutes rather a peculiar configuration of the three elements: forms of genres,
mental models and socio-cultural embeddings of communication.
4.1  General Rhetoric
The General Rhetoric is an overall theoretical and methodological framework,
elaborated already in the ancient times and expected to be a common disciplinary
basis for all rhetoricians. Its classical concepts (e.g., logos, ethos, pathos or the three
genera dicendi, i.e., roughly, ‘types of discourse’) are used for the analysis of the
process of persuasion. Since persuasion is based on proofs, the General Rhetoric
must address the issues of what is known, taken for granted, presupposed, sup-
posed, expected, suspected or believed.
Within the General Rhetoric, rhetoric regards the intellectual activity of think-
ing and figuring out, as well as its communication. The General Rhetoric offers an
anthropological vision of a human person, guided in his/her knowledge-seeking
and communicative behavior by the rationality of logic (logos) and the “rationality
of emotions” (ethos and pathos). The General Rhetoric insists also on the heuristic
potential of forms: patterns, schemas, configurations and figures are accounted
for as devices that help in the intellectual activities such as understanding and
clarification.
Although any rhetorical concept may be used in the analysis of knowledge crea-
tion and communication, within the General Rhetoric there are two particularly
strong lines of research especially relevant for the study of knowledge-related is-
sues. One explores knowledge and, particularly, science, in terms of figurativity.
Maria Załęska
40
Another, instead, privileges research on argumentation. Some approaches com-
bine both aspects.
The research on rhetorical figures and tropes involved in knowledge creation
and transmission concerns two areas of rhetoric: that of elocution and that of in-
vention (see also 6.2, on the Cognitive Rhetoric). The use of ornaments of speech
in knowledge-making texts may be analyzed from the aesthetic perspective, as a
realization of the rhetorical task of delectare ‘to delight’ (e.g., Sierotowicz 2008 and
2016 about Galileo’s use of rhetorical devices). Some authors advise scholars to de-
velop the quality of elocutio (figurativity, syntactic constructions) in their scholarly
writing and speaking (see, e.g., McCloskey [1985] 1988), in order to increase both
attractiveness and understandability of their texts.
Others seem to adopt the attitude of suspicion towards the beauty of scientific
texts, accused of diverting attention from the very essence of scholarly work, i.e.,
processes of rigorous demonstration or – according to more modern views –
processes of argumentation. Already the Royal Society exhorted its members
“[…] to separate the knowledge of Nature from the colors of Rhetorick, the
devices of Fancy, or the delightful deceit of Fables” (Sprat 1667: 62, quoted in
Pera 1994: 130). The scientists were invited
[…] to reject all the amplifications, digressions, and swellings of style: to return to the
primitive purity, and shortness, when men deliver’d so many things, almost in an equal
number of words […] bringing all things as near the Mathematical plainness as they can.
(Sprat 1667: 62, quoted in Pera 1994: 130)
However, far more interesting is the use of rhetorical figures and tropes as devices of
thinking, involved in the rhetorical task of docere ‘teach,’ ‘inform,’ ‘prove’ and, indi-
rectly, the rhetorical task of movere, literally ‘to move,’ i.e., to invite to action desired
by the persuasor. Rhetorical figures and tropes function as intellectual tools that
influence not only the presentation of knowledge, but, more importantly, what
counts as disciplinary knowledge. Parret (2006: 140) comments, for example,
on the “rhetorization of linguistics” which he understands as the re-valorization
of the figurability of disciplinary discourse. Many researches explore the use of
different rhetorical figures and tropes – especially metaphor and metonymy – as
knowledge-enhancing devices (e.g., Berthelot ed. 2003; v. Halloran and Bradford
1984; Hallyn 1987, 1998; Fahnestock 1999).
The use of rhetorical figures shapes not only scientific thinking, but also thinking
about scientific thinking. The meta-level of discourse about science and scientists
(more broadly – about scholars) is informed also by rhetorical figures. For example,
epithets are involved in the process of labeling (discussed by Wagner this volume),
Rhetorical approaches towards knowledge 41
i.e., evaluating scholars’ excellence.5
The appreciation of the quality of research
done by single scholars is generalized to account for what is reputed trustworthy
scientific knowledge.
The second area of research relevant for the analysis of knowledge-making
texts within the General Rhetoric regards argumentation. Correct argumenta-
tion makes possible the passage from what is known (rhetorical proofs) towards
what is regarded knowable with a reasonable degree of probability. The General
Rhetoric presupposes the regulative idea of truth: not as something that can be
actually proved within the process of argumentation, but as an ideal orientative
point (see Piazza 2004 and 2005). Such an ideal orientative point is used to es-
timate the probability6
of affirmations constructed through argumentation or to
express judgements about manipulations and lies.
The well-developed conceptual apparatus of rhetorical argumentation is used to
account for situations in which shared knowledge or specialized knowledge are in-
volved within processes of persuasion. Fahnestock (1986), for example, evokes the
rhetorical concept of the status quaestionis in order to contrast ways of problem
presentation in scientific and popularization texts. Fahnestock and Secor (1991)
explore topoi in literary criticism. The peculiar ways of argumentation within
different disciplines and/or by single scholars are explored in many studies (Gage
ed. 2011; see also Plantin, this volume).
Some researches propose combinations of the two main concepts: figurativity
and argumentation. For example, White (1973), studying the evolution of the
disciplinary discourse of historiography, presents selected rhetorical figures and
tropes (e.g., metaphor and irony) as forms that preconfigure ways of argumenta-
tion applied by historians. Another way of tracing interrelations between figures
and argumentation is presented by Freddi this volume.
4.2  Cognitive Rhetoric
The Cognitive Rhetoric belongs to a broad group of the so-called cognitive scienc-
es that explore mental representations involved in processes of knowing and in its
outcome, i.e., knowledge (see, e.g., Fahnestock 2005). Within cognitive sciences,
the intellectual activities – such as perception, thinking, learning, knowing, and
5	 On the rhetorical use of labeling in political discourse, see also Molek-Kozakowska
(2010).
6	 In Romance languages, this relation is visible also at the linguistic level, for example
in Italian vero ‘true’ and verosimile, etymologically: vero ‘true’ and simile ‘similar’, i.e.,
“similar to truth,” in English: ‘probable.’
Maria Załęska
42
decision taking – are examined in an interdisciplinary way. The research involves
neurobiology, anthropology, psychology, philosophy of mind, logic, artificial in-
telligence, as well as insights from more logocentric communication disciplines,
such as linguistics, literature or Rhetoric.
Consequently, the specialized trends of the respective disciplines – called Cog-
nitive Linguistics, Cognitive Literature and Cognitive Rhetoric – offer very dif-
ferentiated, albeit interrelated, approaches to the mental processes of cognition.
The models proposed involve complex relations among brain, senses and mind
that underlie the psychological processes. In some trends of research, these mental
processes are considered in relation to the social context, which accounts for the
overlappings between the Cognitive and the Epistemic Rhetoric (see below).
Within the Cognitive Rhetoric, one line of research, called Neurorhetoric,
takes its methodological inspiration from neurobiology, neuropsychology, neuro-
ethics and even from neuronarratology (see, for example, Goldman 2006; Cerroni
and Rufo 2009; Calabrese 2012; for critical views, see Legrenzi and Umiltà 2001).
The Neurorhetoric experimental research explores brain activities during the pro-
cess of persuasion. It may be examined in a twofold way: from the perspective of
a speaker who aims to persuade others, or from the perspective of the audience,
i.e., the persons who contribute, in a semi-passive7
way, to the process of being
persuaded. The neurobiological perspective concentrates on brain activities in-
volved in meaning-making, e.g., deciphering the actual sense of rhetorical figures
and tropes. It accounts for processes of persuasion, viewed as conditioned by
relations of trustworthiness among the participants, by emotions and behavior of
other members of the audience, by space relations in a place where the process of
persuasion occurs or by the interplay of verbal and visual cues used to persuade.
Relevant for the Neurorhetoric is also the study of the impact that linguistic and
rhetorical forms, chosen to construct a particular text, have on the recipients’
capacity of retaining information. Such formal choices, which make a text easy
or hard to follow and remember for the recipients, influence both their processes
of knowledge elaboration and the effectiveness of persuasion.
Another line of research within the Cognitive Rhetoric is not committed to
experiments that corroborate or falsify a theory, but rather to a more speculative
approach that consists in constructing models of understanding and of mean-
ing-making. While the General Rhetoric is interested as a rule in the conscious
choice of the appropriate means for realizing a persuasive intention, the Cognitive
7	Only semi-passive, and not passive, since listening and understanding require active
collaboration of the recipient.
Rhetorical approaches towards knowledge 43
Rhetoric dedicates itself to what the speakers are unaware of and, notwithstanding,
what they use to construct suggestive accounts of reality. The Cognitive Rhetoric
and the Cognitive Literature share interest in the underlying narrative schemata,
involved in understanding and knowledge processing. The inspiration stems, first,
from the psychological concepts of everyday elaboration of information, such as
mental models (Johnson-Laird 1983) or schemata, scenarios and frames (Schank
and Abelson 1977; Fillmore 1976). Second, the Cognitive Rhetoric relies also on
the literary research that proposes models of meaning-making in the universe
of different literary genres (e.g., the narrative schemata of a tale, elaborated by
Propp [1928] 2000; for a cognitive account of poetics, see Stockwell 2002; Gavins
and Steen eds. 2003). Third, this trend of the Cognitive Rhetoric takes advantage
also from the research within Discourse Analysis and Pragmatics, which explore
such mechanisms of indirect meaning-making as presupposition, implication or
implicature (esp. Levinson 2000, also Kock this volume; on indirectness of mean-
ing in speech acts, see esp. Cole and Morgan eds. 1975).
The difference between the General Rhetoric and the Cognitive Rhetoric mani-
fests itself especially in the approach to rhetorical figures and tropes. In the General
Rhetoric, their use is treated as conscious: they are chosen by the speakers for
their clarificatory, didactic, and aesthetic potential. Regarded as a part of elocutio,
rhetorical figures and tropes are accounted for as contributing to the delectare
(‘to delight’) function.
Within the Cognitive Rhetoric, instead, rhetorical figures and tropes are col-
located at the pre-inventio level. According to the Cognitive Rhetoric research,
before any conscious choice takes place, it is already conditioned by some mental
pre-figurations of which speakers are not aware. Rhetorical figures and tropes
are treated as cognitive schemata that influence comprehension and conceptu-
alization and, in this way, influence understanding and strategies of persuasion
(see also Kowalski this volume). As the title of the Lakoff and Johnson’s (1980)8
book – Metaphors we live by – affirms, these tropes constitute the essential pat-
terning of human cognitive life. The cognitive approach to rhetorical figures and
tropes shows that they influence not only everyday thinking and, therefore, ordi-
nary knowledge, but also scientific ones. For example, Boyd (1993: 360) uses the
concept of “theory-constitutive metaphors” which are “constitutive of the theories
they express.” Such tropes, used in expert-to-expert communication, underlie
8	 Since both authors do not self-declare as rhetoricians (Lakoff is a linguist and Johnson –
a philosopher) they could fit into the category of scholars who represent the “implicit
rhetorical turn.”
Maria Załęska
44
the concurrent models of disciplinary thought (for a cognitive approach towards
metaphor in disciplinary thinking, see, e.g., Jäkel 1997).
The third line of research within the Cognitive Rhetoric manifests itself as the
didactic interest in the practices of literacy, especially within the pedagogy of com-
position (see the seminal works by Flower 1979, 1989; Flower and Hayes 1981).
This trend within the Cognitive Rhetoric combines anthropological, literary, psy-
chological and social insights. Therefore, it is strongly interrelated with the Epistemic
Rhetoric.
In the Cognitive Rhetoric, the experience of creating a text is modeled as a per-
formative act of self-expression, considered in relation to available communicative
conventions. In the General Rhetoric, the process of creating a persuasive text is
presented as a rational method, applicable indistinctly by each person. Any of the
methodical steps – inventio, dispositio, elocutio, memoria, actio – offers the same
set of possible choices for every rhetorician. Within the Cognitive Rhetoric, in-
stead, a psychologically oriented approach sees the process of creating a text – i.e.,
also of knowledge transmission – as a sub-case of the problem solving process. The
Cognitive Rhetoric techniques, such as think-aloud protocols, aim at unveiling
the mechanisms that influence the process of actual, individual decision-taking
when an author creates a text. Such meta-knowledge serves the researchers to
design didactic cues for the novices. The Cognitive Rhetoric pedagogization of
this meta-knowledge about actual strategies and tactics of writing is expected to
help novices in their composition activities.
A more sociologically oriented approach explores the process of thinking and
communicating as well, but it privileges the socio-cultural context. The shared
mental models are treated as what allows the coordination of communicative ac-
tivities between the interlocutors. Therefore, the shared mental models enable the
interactants’ mutual understanding and persuasion. Since the process of meaning-
making occurs within the socio-cultural embeddings, therefore the mentalities,
ideologies and assumptions are examined as factors that pre-determine the de-
fault ways of executing the intellectual activities. The collective pressures and
biases are mediated by the individual cognitive activity of each writer or speaker.
When creating a text, the author unconsciously reveals the mental and cultural
constraints of which s/he is not aware. Such an awareness-raising process allows
the author to emancipate from the default patterns. However, s/he may remain
largely unaware of the new emerging constraints. Therefore, believing in his or
her emancipation, the author unconsciously embraces new cultural patterns that
will be visible only from a distance.
Rhetorical approaches towards knowledge 45
4.3  Epistemic Rhetoric
The first formulations of the Epistemic Rhetoric9
framework can be found in Berlin
(1988); Burke (1966) and Scott (1967, 1976). The Epistemic Rhetoric explores essen-
tially the interplay between ontological, epistemological and social issues involved
in knowledge creation and diffusion. It is, therefore, strongly related to sociological
research (see Wagner this volume) and to Discourse Analysis (e.g., in what concerns
research on academic discourse; see Ganea, Molek-Kozakowska and Okulska this
volume).
Seemingly continuing Rorty’s (1967, 1992) radical view of the linguistic turn, Foss
(1989: 122) affirms that “in the field of communication, the idea that rhetoric cre-
ates reality is known as the notion that rhetoric is epistemic, which simply means
that rhetoric creates knowledge.” If not interpreted in a metaphorical way, the
claim that “rhetoric creates reality” has essentially ontological character (without
rhetoric, allegedly nothing exists). In the quoted fragment, the ontological claim
transforms into an epistemological one, affirming that “rhetoric creates knowl-
edge.” The postulated equivalence between the two claims (“which simply means”)
affirms that ‘reality’ is, for all practical purposes, synonymous to ‘knowledge,’ and
both result only from persuasion (on ontological relations between reality, knowl-
edge and truth, see also Okulska this volume). The discussion of the far-reaching
philosophical consequences of such a postulated equivalence are, however, out
of the scope of this chapter.
With respect to the difference between what is reality and what counts as reality,
the mainstream Epistemic Rhetoric is concerned only with the latter one, reducing
it to the realm of communication:
The questions of what reality is and how we get to know it are reducible to the epistemo-
logical assumptions concerning what is knowable. That epistemology can thus be seen
as central to rhetoric is understandable because rhetoric is about communication, that is,
the sharing of knowledge. How knowledge is made (invention) and not only how it is best
shared (use of language) are two interdependent questions central to the new rhetoric,
which is accordingly called epistemic rhetoric. (Zalewski 2004: 34)
Within this view, only the acts of attention and verbalization create what counts as
known, thus – what counts as real for all the practical purposes of communication.
According to the author, the interest of the Epistemic Rhetoric is not only in what
is known, but also in what is knowable.
9	 This approach is actually given different names: epistemic rhetoric; rhetoric as epistemic;
“rhetoric is epistemic” approach; epistemic view of rhetoric; epistemic approach to rheto-
ric; epistemic conception of rhetoric, rhetoric’s epistemic function.
Maria Załęska
46
The counterpart of the known and knowable are, respectively, unknown and
unknowable. The interest in these opposite categories constitutes a distinct thread
within the Epistemic Rhetoric research. For example, Berlin (1982: 767) discusses
factors that “determine what knowledge will be knowable, what not knowable”
(with an intriguing category of “knowledge” which is “not knowable”). The cat-
egory of unknown points out that – in contrast to Foss’s claim – reality cannot be
reduced to what is actually known and spoken of. Indeed, apart from the known
reality, there is also the unknown reality, the motivation to undertake any scien-
tific research. Therefore, the awareness of the ignorance – a peculiar variant of the
Socratean “I know that I don’t know” – is a precious sort of (non)knowledge that
requires epistemic imagination.
In less radical versions, the Epistemic Rhetoric research does not proclaim that
“rhetoric creates reality” nor that ‘knowledge’ is equivalent to ‘reality.’ The Epis-
temic Rhetoric studies put forth rather the idea that rhetoric is simply involved
in creation and communication of knowledge. Such an idea was present also in
the ancient Rhetoric. What constitutes therefore the novelty of this variant of the
New Rhetoric? The answer is not easy, since the very idea of interpreting rhetoric
in epistemic terms, as Leff (1998 [1978]) puts it, deserves a more rigorous treat-
ment than the available accounts (and the affirmation holds even many years after
its original formulation, see Harpine 2004).
The author points out four reasons that justify the idea of perceiving rhetoric
in epistemic terms:
(i) Rhetoric is epistemic because it allows us to know how particular objects and events
relate to fixed, abstract principles. (ii) Rhetoric is epistemic because it represents an ac-
tive, social form of thinking that allows us to gain knowledge both of particulars and of
principles in respect to practical matters. (iii) Rhetoric is epistemic since it can serve a
meta-logical function that helps us to secure knowledge of the first principles of theoreti-
cal disciplines. (iv) Rhetoric is epistemic since knowledge itself is a rhetorical construct.
(Leff 1998: 47–48)
Apart from the purely epistemic terms (such as knowledge, certainty, uncertainty,
doubt; known, knowable, unknown, unknowable), the Epistemic Rhetoric operates
also within the sociological terminology, since rhetoric “represents an active, social
form of thinking.” The research considers the influence of social factors on what
is legitimated as knowledge, what counts as certain, what is qualified as doubtful.
Herrick (1997: 22) claims that “through rhetorical interaction, people come to
accept some ideas as true and to reject others as false. Thus, rhetoric’s epistemic
function in society can be seen in some ways to be a result of its benefit of testing
ideas.” The author affirms that the ideas that have been tested by a community or
Rhetorical approaches towards knowledge 47
society become legitimized and constitute a “part of what these groups take to
be knowledge” (Herrick 1997: 22). What counts as pure knowledge rarely is so, as
Shapin (2010) underlines in a voluntarily baroque title of his book: Never Pure.
Historical Studies of Science as if It Was Produced by People with Bodies, Situated
in Time, Space, Culture, and Society, and Struggling for Credibility and Authority.
The title eloquently points out the socio-cultural embeddings of the process of
knowledge constitution.
Epistemic Rhetoric that explores rhetoric as “an active, social form of thinking”
is interested also in ideology, i.e., a system of ideas that underlie and inform the
expression of knowledge.10
Actually, the interest in the social constraints of knowledge creation, acquisi-
tion and persuasive communication is manifest also in General Rhetoric. It has
theorized the practical advice regarding the general attitude of sensibility towards
the audience, both while preparing and delivering a speech. The typology of public
communication settings in the model of the three genera dicendi or the insistence
on using common resources, understandable for the possibly widest audience, are
other manifestations of the General Rhetoric interest in the social constraints of
persuasive communication. Importantly, the General Rhetoric, as a theoretical
side-product of the purely practical advice concerning persuasive communication,
insists on the speaker’s intentionality. Indeed, in order to be efficient, the advice
must concern the choices that the speaker has under his or her intentional con-
trol. Aware of the type of audience and of one’s own resources, the speaker makes
consciously his/her choices in order to best persuade the recipients.
The Epistemic Rhetoric research, on the contrary, deconstructs the collec-
tive unawareness of the cultural and social constraints that actually influence
the speaker’s intentionality. Even if rhetoric is treated as “an active, social form
of thinking,” this active thinking is reputed, however, to be heavily conditioned
by cultural, ideological, and/or scholarly paradigms. The speakers follow them
unconsciously, since they are not even fully aware of their existence. The Epistemic
Rhetoric shares thus with the Foucaultian Discourse Analysis (see Danler this
volume) the interest for the collective unawareness of what reveals to be the most
important system of meaning-making. The Epistemic Rhetoric problematizes,
therefore, not only the possibility of free, independent choice of the rhetorical
10	 In this context it is useful to remind Pêcheux’s ([1975] 1983: 104, emphasis in original)
insistence on a precise conceptual distinction between ideology and unconscious that
both share a common feature, namely “[…] the fact that they conceal their own exist-
ence within their operation by producing a web of ‘subjective’ evident truths, ‘subjective’
here meaning not ‘affecting the subject’, but ‘in which the subject is constituted’.”
Maria Załęska
48
means, but also the very idea of the objectivity of knowledge. Knowledge is re-
garded as subjective because: (a) the very act of knowing requires a human subject;
(b) any knowing subject lives in a historical period, in a culture, with all the con-
tingencies it entails; (c) other knowing subjects are involved in the intersubjective
negotiations on what counts as knowledge.
Finally, the Epistemic Rhetoric is also involved in Critical Discourse Analysis,
which examines the production of knowledge, among others, on socially sensitive
issues (e.g., power, gender or racism, see Fairclough 1989, 2003; van Dijk 1987,
1991, 1993).
It is also strongly interrelated with more logocentric Discourse Analysis ap-
proach. A rigorous analysis of discursive choices, interpreted in relation to so-
ciological settings (such as academic, educational or popularization contexts of
knowledge transmission) shows the peculiar circularity between the textual and
extratextual universe. Words, indeed, both reflect and create the cultural context
that makes use of them. The discursive choices create patterns at different levels
of generality, starting from the types of discourse (such as academic discourse,
popularization discourse), through different genres, until the individual speech
acts (for a discussion, see esp. Fairclough 1989 and 2003).
The interest of the Epistemic Rhetoric in the unveiling of the social constraints
on knowledge production reveals also obvious convergences with sociological re-
search, especially the sociology of knowledge (Znaniecki 1912, 1940; Fleck [1935]
2006, 2007), as well as with epistemology studies, particularly social epistemology
(Goldman 1999).
5. Conclusions
The first issue discussed in this chapter – the relation between rhetoric and knowl-
edge – shows the coexistence of two opposite visions of rhetoric. According to
one, rhetoric operates only within the realm of shared knowledge and common
resources, therefore it addresses non-knowledgeable people. According to the
other, rhetoric is conceived of in a far more universal way: as an art of inquisitive
intelligence, it adapts to any circumstances, goals and audiences through strategic
choices, generating in each type of situation recognizable patterns of preferential
rhetorical choices. Among them there is the rhetoric of inquiry, i.e., intellectually
requiring ways of persuasion designed to appeal to highly knowledgeable audi-
ences of specialists.
The second issue outlined in this chapter concerns the internal articulation
of Rhetoric. Since Rhetoric explores the phenomenon of persuasion, one of its
main resources – knowledge – must be taken into account. Each of the discussed
Rhetorical approaches towards knowledge 49
frameworks – General Rhetoric, Cognitive Rhetoric and Epistemic Rhetoric – pre-
sents a different model of reality, knowledge and rhetoric relations. The differences
concern, among others, such criteria as ontology and epistemology (hence, truth
and referentiality), awareness, intentionality, the collective and the individual.
However, as has been shown in the chapter, methodologically pure approaches are
very rare, since the researchers aim at showing the complexity of the phenomena
analyzed.
Within the General Rhetoric, inspired by the philosophical realism, the reality,
knowledge and the realm of text are carefully distinguished. The lack of knowledge
incites the process of persuasion, stimulates intelligence and epistemological im-
agination, invites to exercise caution in reasoning. The epistemological modesty
of rhetoric, in this approach, manifests itself in recognizing that rhetoric does not
permit to establish the truth. Rhetorical argumentation leads to the provisory, only
probabilistic accounts, according to the best evidence available at the moment.
Therefore, rhetoric is seen as a realm of imperfection: a never-ending, therefore
never perfect, process of gaining better evidence. However, the regulative idea
of truth within rhetoric manifests itself in many ways, for example, in the recog-
nition that rhetorical argumentation actually does not allow to reach truth, but
its realizations are subjected to alethical, logical and ethical evaluations (e.g., as
reasonable, manipulatory, propagandistic or even as obvious lies). The General
Rhetoric promotes the anthropological vision of the speaker as a person free of
hidden constraints, aware of all the relevant circumstances and able to consciously
choose the means, likely to persuade the audience.
Within the Cognitive Rhetoric, the center of interest changes: it is not knowl-
edge as manifested in the propositional content of the text and evaluated with ref-
erence to the regulative idea of truth, but cognition explored throught the hidden
mental mechanisms of knowledge elaboration. The essential issues are the biologi-
cal and psychological correlates of activities involved, among others, in changing
the states of knowledge during the persuasion processes. Therefore, the idea of
truth is not relevant: what is at stake is rather to establish how cognition works. In
the pedagogical approach, such a meta-knowledge about cognition is converted
into advice on how not to resist to the natural, biologically constrained ways of
decision-taking, memorizing information or influencing others. The Cognitive
Rhetoric, interested mainly in nature (brain, senses, mind), regards culture as an
added dimension which must be considered through the lenses of the biological
constraints. Since biology develops in a context – in the case of humans, also
within a social context – the Cognitive Rhetoric addresses also the sociological
constraints of cognition as involved in the process of persuasion.
Maria Załęska
50
Finally, the Epistemic Rhetoric inverts the proportions: it addresses, first of
all, the cultural, sociological dimension of knowledge management in processes
of persuasion, hinting sometimes at its biological and psychological constraints.
The Epistemic Rhetoric offers an anthropological vision of the speaker as an in-
dividual captured in latent social constraints and unaware of them. Therefore, the
Epistemic Rhetoric explores knowledge issues through the hidden mechanisms
at the sociological level: covert ideologies and mentalities, unconscious convic-
tions and biases, paradigms of thought so dominant that they become virtually
invisible. Instead of the category of truth, the category of accountability is at stake,
i.e., what is accounted for as truth or knowledge in a certain culture and society.
At the center of interest is the collectivity rather than the individual. Indeed, it is
the group that fabricates “normality” through its default expectations and default
consent; the group determines what counts as right, and is far more important
than what is true. At the descriptive level, the Epistemic Rhetoric aims at detecting
these covert social constraints and the process of their emergence. Through their
criticism, however, the Epistemic Rhetoric fosters also awareness-raising that,
eventually, may lead to the emancipation from the governing constraints and to
the sensitivity to the emerging ones.
What results from this synthetic overview is that knowledge, knowledge about
knowledge and knowledge about rhetorical ways of transmitting knowledge con-
stitute a fertile area of research. They have a long history and, presumably, even
a longer future.
References
Aristotle. Edition 1984. Rhetoric. In J. Barnes (ed.) The Complete Works of Aris-
totle. The Revised Oxford Translation. Vol II. Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton
University Press.
Bachman-Medick, D. 2012. Cultural turns: Nowe kierunki w naukach o kulturze.
Transl. K. Krzemieniowa. Warszawa: Oficyna Naukowa [2007 Cultural turns:
Neuorientierungen in den Kulturwissenschaften. Reinbek, Rowohlt Taschen-
buch Verlag].
Berlin, J. 1982. “Contemporary composition: The major pedagogical theories.”
College English (44), 765–777.
Berlin, J. 1988. “Rhetoric and ideology in the writing class.” College English (59),
477–494.
Berlin, J. 2003 [1996]. Rhetorics, poetics, and cultures: Refiguring college English
studies. West Lafayette, IN: Parlor Press.
Rhetorical approaches towards knowledge 51
Berthelot, J.-M. (ed.) 2003. Figures du texte scientifique. Paris: Presses Univer-
sitaires de France.
Boyd, R. 1993. “Metaphor and theory change: what is a metaphor for?.” In Ortony, A.
(ed.) Metaphor and Thought (2nd
edition). Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 356–408.
Burke, K. 1966. Language as Symbolic Action: Essays on Life, Literature, and Method.
Berkeley: University of California Press.
Burke, K. 1967 [1950]. The Rhetoric of Motives. Berkeley: University of California
Press.
Burke, K. 1969 [1945]. A Grammar of Motives. Berkeley: University of California
Press.
Calabrese, S. (ed.) 2012. Neuronarratologia. Il futuro dell’analisi del racconto.
Bologna: Archetipolibri.
Campbell, J. A. 1987. “Charles Darwin: Rhetorician of Science.” In Nelson, J. S.;
Megill, A.; McCloskey, D. N. (eds.) The Rhetoric of the Human Sciences. Lan-
guage and Argument in Scholarship and Public Affairs. Madison: The University
of Wisconsin Press, 69–87.
Cerroni, A.; Rufo, F. (eds.) 2009. Neuroetica. Torino: UTET.
Coe, R. M. 1994. “‘An arousing and fulfilment of desires’: the rhetoric of genre in
the process era – and beyond.” In Freedman, A.; Medway, P. (eds.) Genre and
the new rhetoric. London: Taylor and Francis, 181–190.
Cole, P.; Morgan J. L. (eds.) 1975. Syntax and semantics. Speech acts. New York:
Academia.
Edmondson, R. 1984. Rhetoric and Sociology. London: Palgrave Macmillian.
Fahnestock, J. 1986. “Accomodating science: The rhetorical life of scientific facts.”
Written Communication (3), 275–296.
Fahnestock, J. 1999. Rhetorical figures in science. New York: Oxford University Press.
Fahnestock, J. 2005. “Rhetoric in the age of cognitive science.” In Graff, R. (ed.)
The viability of rhetoric. New York: State University of New York Press, 159–179.
Fahnestock, J.; Secor, M. 1991. “The Rhetoric of Literary Criticism.” In Bazerman,
Ch.; Paradis, J. (eds.) Textual Dynamics of the Professions. Wisconsin: Univer-
sity of Wisconsin Press, 76–96.
Fairclough, N. 1989. Language and Power. London: Longman.
Fairclough, N. 2003. Analysing Discourse: Textual Analysis for Social Research.
London: Routledge.
Feyerabend, P. K. 1975. Against Method. Outline of an Anarchistic Theory of Knowl-
edge. New York: Verso.
Maria Załęska
52
Fillmore, Ch. 1976. “Frame semantics and the nature of language.” Annals of the
New York Academy of Sciences: Conference on the Origin and Development of
Language and Speech (280), 20–32.
Fleck, L. 2006 [1935]. Psychosocjologia poznania naukowego. Powstanie i rozwój
faktu naukowego oraz inne pisma z filozofii poznania (Cackowski, Z.; Symotiuk,
S. eds.). Lublin: Wydawnictwo UMCS.
Fleck, L. 2007. Style myślowe i fakty. Artykuły i świadectwa (Werner, S.; Zittl, C.;
Schmaltz, F. eds.). Warszawa: Wydawnictwo IFIS PAN.
Flower, L. 1979. “Writer-Based Prose: A Cognitive Basis for Problems in Writing.”
College English 41 (1), 19–37.
Flower, L. 1989. “Cognition, Context, and Theory Building.” College Composition
and Communication 40 (3), 282–311.
Flower, L; Hayes J. R. 1981. “A Cognitive Process Theory of Writing.” College Com-
position and Communication 32 (4), 365–387.
Foss, S. K. 1989. Rhetorical Criticism: Exploration and Practice [2nd
ed.]. Prospect
Heights: Waveland Press.
Foucault, M. 1969. L’archéologie du savoir. Paris: Gallimard.
Frogel, S. 2005. The rhetoric of philosophy. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Gage, J. T. (ed.) 2011. The promise of reason. Studies in the New Rhetoric. Carbon-
dale and Edwardsville: Southern Illinois University Press.
Gaonkar, D. P. 1998. “Rhetoric and Its Double: Reflections on the Rhetorical Turn
in the Human Sciences.” In Farrell, T. B. (ed.) Landmark Essays on Contempo-
rary Rhetoric. Mahwah, NJ: Hermagoras Press, 159–179.
Garsten, B. 2006. Saving persuasion. A defence of rhetoric an judgment. Cambridge:
Harvard University Press.
Gavins, J.; Steen, G. (eds.) 2003. Cognitive Poetics in Practice. London: Routledge.
Goldman, A. I. 1999. Knowledge in a social world. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Goldman, A. I. 2006. Simulating Minds. The Philosophy, Psychology, and Neurosci-
ence of Mindreading. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Gross, A. G. 1996. The Rhetoric of science. Cambridge, MA – London: Harvard
University Press.
Gross, A. G. 2006. Starring the text. The place or rhetoric in science studies. Car-
bondale, IL: Southern Illinois University Press.
Habermas, J. 1975 [1973]. Legitimation Crisis. Boston: Beacon.
Halloran, M. S.; Bradford, A. N. 1984. “Figures of Speech in the Rhetoric of Sci-
ence and Technology.” In Connors, R. J.; Ede, L. S.; Lunsford, A. A. (eds.) Essays
Rhetorical approaches towards knowledge 53
on Classical Rhetoric and Modern Discourse. Carbondale and Edwardsville:
Southern Illinois University Press, 179–192.
Hallyn, F. 1987. La poétique du monde. Copernic, Képler. Paris: Jenil.
Hallyn, F. 1998. “Tropologie et ‘invention’ scientifique: de la métaphore filée du
modèle analogique.” In Gayon, J.; Poirier, J.; Gens, J.-C. (eds.) La rhétorique:
enjeux de ses résurgences. Bruxelles: Editions OUSIA, 142–161.
Harpine, W. 2004. “What do you mean, rhetoric is epistemic?.” Philosophy and
Rhetoric 37 (4), 335–352.
Herrick, J. A. 1997. The History and Theory of Rhetoric: An Introduction. Scotts-
dale: Gorsuch Scarisbrick Publishers.
Jäkel, O. 1997. Metaphern in abstrakten Diskurs-Domänen. Eine kognitiv-lingu-
istische Untersuchung anhand der Bereiche Geistestätigkeit, Wirtschaft und
Wissenschaft. Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Johnson-Laird, P. N. 1983. Mental Models: Towards a Cognitive Science of Lan-
guage, Inference, and Consciousness. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Kaplan, R. B. 1972. The anatomy of rhetoric. Prolegomena to a functional theory of
rhetoric. Philadelphia: Center for Curriculum Development.
Kuhn, T. 1970. The structure of scientific revolutions. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.
Lakoff, G.; Johnson, M. 1980. Metaphors we live by. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.
Leff, M. 1998. “In search of Ariadne’s thread: A review of the recent literature on
rhetorical theory.” In Farrell, T. B. (ed.) Landmark Essays on Contemporary
Rhetoric. Mahwah, NJ: Hermagoras Press, 159–179. [first published 1978 Cen-
tral States Speech Journal 29, 73–91].
Legrenzi, P.; Umiltà, C. 2009. Neuro-mania. Il cervello non spiega chi siamo.
Bologna: Il Mulino.
Levinson, S. C. 2000. Presumptive meanings. The theory of generalized conversa-
tional implicature. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
McCloskey, D. N. 1988 [1985]. La retorica dell’economia. Scienza e letteratura nel
discorso economico. Torino: Einaudi.
McKeon, R. 1987. Rhetoric. Essays in Invention and Discovery. Woodbridge, CT:
Ox Bow Press.
Miller, C. R. 1984. “Genre as social action.” Quarterly Journal of Speech (70),
151–167.
Miller, C. R. 1994a. “Genre as social action” [reviewed version]. In Freedman, A.;
Medway, P. (eds.) Genre and the new rhetoric. London: Taylor and Francis, 23–42.
Maria Załęska
54
Miller, C. R. 1994b. “Rhetorical Community: The cultural basis of genre.” In Freed-
man, A.; Medway, P. (eds.) Genre and the new rhetoric. London: Taylor and
Francis, 67–78.
Molek-Kozakowska, K. 2010. “Labeling and mislabeling in American political
discourse: A survey based on insights of independent media monitors.” In
Okulska, U.; Cap, P. (eds.) Perspectives in Politics and Discourse. Amsterdam
and Philadelphia: John Benjamins, 83–96.
Nelson, J. S.; Megill, A. 1986. “Rhetoric of inquiry: projects and prospects.” Quar-
terly Journal of Speech (72), 20–37.
Nelson, J. S.; Megill, A.; McCloskey, D. N. (eds.) 1987. The Rhetoric of the Human
Sciences. Language and Argument in Scholarship and Public Affairs. Madison:
The University of Wisconsin Press.
Oliver, R. T. 1965. “Foreword.” In Nathanson, M.; Johnstone, H. W. Jr. (eds.) Phi-
losophy, Rhetoric and Argumentation. Pennsylvania: University Park, i–xi.
Parret, H. 2006. “Vers une rhétorisation de la linguistique: l’esprit de la rhéto-
rique et le discours.” In Bonfiglioli, S.; Marmo, C. (eds.) Retorica e scienze del
linguaggio. Teorie e pratiche dell’argomentazione e della persuasione. Roma:
Aracne, 137–152.
Pêcheux, M. 1975. Language, semantics and ideology. Stating the obvious. London –
Basingstoke: The Macmillan Pres Ltd.
Pera, M. 1994. The Discourses of Science. Chicago – London: The University of
Chicago Press.
Perelman, Ch.; Olbrechts-Tyteca, L. 1958. La nouvelle rhétorique. Traité de l’ar-
gumentation. Paris: Presses Universitaires de France.
Piazza, F. 2004. Linguaggio, persuasione e verità. La retorica del Novecento.
Carocci: Roma.
Piazza, F. 2005. “La verità persuasiva. Osservazioni su eikòs.” In Bonfiglioli, S.;
Marmo, C. (eds.) Retorica e scienze del linguaggio. Teorie e pratiche dell’argo-
mentazione e della persuasione. Roma: Aracne, 1–21.
Prelli, L. J. 1989. A Rhetoric of Science: Inventing Scientific Discourse. Columbia:
University of South Carolina Press.
Propp, V. J. 2000. Morfologia della fiaba [first published 1928]. Torino: Einaudi.
Richards, I. A. 1936. The Philosophy of Rhetoric. New York and London: Oxford
University Press.
Rorty, R. 1992, “Introduction.” In Rorty, R. (ed.) The Linguistic Turn. Essays in
Philosophical Method. With Two Retrospective Essays. Chicago – London: The
University of Chicago Press.
Rhetorical approaches towards knowledge 55
Rorty, R. (ed.) 1967. The Linguistic Turn. Essays in Philosophical Method. Chicago,
University of Chicago Press.
Schank, R. C.; Abelson, R. P. 1977. Scripts, Plans, Goals and Understanding. Hills-
dale, NJ.: Erlbaum.
Scott, R. L. 1967. “On Viewing Rhetoric as Epistemic.” Central States Speech Journal
(18), 9–16.
Scott, R. L. 1976. “On Viewing Rhetoric as Epistemic: Ten Years Later.” Central
States Speech Journal (27), 268–286.
Shapin, S. 1994. A Social History of Truth: Civility and Science in Seventeenth-
Century England. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Shapin, S. 2010. Never Pure. Historical Studies of Science as if It Was Produced by
People with Bodies, Situated in Time, Space, Culture, and Society, and Struggling
for Credibility and Authority. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University Press.
Sierotowicz, T. 2008. Od metodycznej polemiki do polemiki metodologicznej. Im-
presje z lektury ‘Wagi probierczej’ Galileusza wraz z antologią. Tarnów: Byblos.
Sierotowicz, T. 2016 “Galileuszowe ćwiczenia z retoryki. Bajka o koniku polnym z
Wagi probierczej jako argument ab exempla” [“Galileo’s rhetorical exercises. The
tale of cicada from ‘The Assayer’ as the argument ab exempla”]. In Załęska, M.
(ed.) Retoryka – krytyka – wiedza. [Rhetoric – Criticism – Knowledge]. Warszawa:
PTR, 83–111. Open Access: retoryka.edu.pl/files/Retoryka-wiedza-krytyka.pdf
Simons, H. W. 1980. “Are Scientists Rhetors in Disguise? An Analysis of Discursive
Processes Within Scientific Communities.” In White, E. E. (ed.) Rhetoric in
Transition: Studies in the Nature and Uses of Rhetoric. University Park: Penn-
sylvania State UP, 115–131.
Simons, H. W. 1990. The Rhetorical Turn: Invention and Persuasion in the Conduct
of Inquiry. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Simons, H. W. (ed.) 1989. Rhetoric in the Human Science. London, Sage.
Sprat, T. 1667. The History of the Royal Society of London, for the Improving of
Natural Knowledge. London.
Stockwell, P. 2002. Cognitive Poetics. An Introduction. London: Routledge.
Toulmin, S.; Rieke, R.; Janik, A. 1984. An Introduction to Reasoning. New York –
London: Macmillan Publishing Company.
Van Dijk, T. A. 1987. Communicating Racism. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.
Van Dijk, T. A. 1991. Racism and the Press. London: Routledge.
Van Dijk, T. A. 1993. Elite Discourse and Racism. Thousand Oaks, CA.: Sage Pub-
lications.
Weaver, R. M. 1948. Ideas Have Consequences. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.
Maria Załęska
56
Weaver, R. M. 1967. Rhetoric and Composition [first published 1957 as Composi-
tion: A Course in Reading and Writing]. New York: Holt, Rinehart, and Winston.
Weaver, R. M. 1985. The Ethics of Rhetoric [first published 1953]. Davis CA: Her-
magoras Press.
Wenger, E. 1998. Communities of Practice. Learning, Meaning and Identification.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
White, H. V. 1973. Metahistory. The historical imagination in nineteenth century
Europe. Baltimore – London: The Johns Hopkins University Press.
Zalewski, J. 2004. Epistemology of the composing process: writing in English for
general academic purposes. Opole: Wydawnictwo Uniwersytetu Opolskiego.
Załęska, M. 2014. Retorica della linguistica. Scienza, struttura, scrittura. [Rhetoric
of Linguistics. Science, structure, writing literacy]. Frankfurt am Main: Peter
Lang.
Znaniecki, F. 1912. Humanizm i poznanie. Warszawa: E. Wende i Ska.
Znaniecki, F. 1940. The Social Role of the Man of Knowledge. New York: Columbia
University Press.
Joanna Partyka
Polish Academy of Sciences
Rhetoric of (and in) the early modern
encyclopedia
Abstract: The chapter addresses sixteenth and seventeenth century ways of collecting,
organizing, and conveying knowledge. It focuses on the role of rhetoric in structuring the
encyclopedic format, as well as on visual representations of rhetoric itself in encyclopedias.
The text shows that other works of reference and commonplaces were popular sources of
rhetorical invention in encyclopedias.
1. Introduction
…we bring to light this Rhetorica, so that the image of all the sciences can be admired
and contemplated in this book as in the very clear mirror. It is necessary that the orator
should have knowledge of everything, and master with diligence the whole world of the
sciences, which has been called the ‘encyclopaedia.’ (Llull 1515, f. a ii; cf. Rossi 2006: 38)
En el camino hacia […] nueva encyclopedia tiene gran importancia una disciplina que
había merecido poca atención en la Edad Media. Se trata de la retórica […]. […] Así,
de las viejas formas del ars dictandi medieval, la retórica salía de sus fórmulas estáticas
para entrar de lleno en la vida de la ciudad, en los sistemas de educación y también en
la organización del saber.
[English translation: On the path to […] new encyclopedia a discipline that had received
little attention in the Middle Ages was of great importance. It was rhetoric […]. […] Thus
rhetoric went beyond the old forms of medieval ars dictandi, beyond its static formulas to
fully enter into the life of the city, in the educational systems as well as in the organization
of knowledge]. (Cherchi 1993: 87)
Reference works such as the book of secrets, thesaurus, systema, silva, florilegium or,
finally, encyclopedia – a vague and demanding clarification, although widely used
and even abused – are key words when reflecting on sixteenth and seventeenth cen-
tury ways of collecting, organizing and conveying knowledge (Blair 2010: 117–172).
Juxtaposition of rhetoric and the encyclopedia may facilitate a better understand-
ing of these mechanisms, as well as demonstrate the status of rhetoric in the early
modern system of knowledge. The crisis of information determined by new areas
of knowledge which occurred at that time, its multiplicity and variety, impelled
new syntheses of knowledge, as well as new tools of instruction and scholarship.
Joanna Partyka
58
Rhetoric played an important role in it. Bearing in mind the cultural context of this
phenomenon, I will focus on three topics: (1) encyclopedia as a genre of knowledge
transmission; (2) types of encyclopedias and types of knowledge; (3) encyclopedic
presentation of rhetoric.
2.  Encyclopedia as a genre of knowledge transmission
One of Plato’s cardinal virtues is wisdom, sapientia, sofia, beside justice (iustitia),
courage (fortitudo) and temperance (temperantia). The ideal of Greek paideia –
Cycero’s humanita – is broadly understood humanistic culture (Korolko 1998: 40).
Its tool was rhetoric as an art whose goal was – according to Plato – human devel-
opment, improvement, as well as adding splendor to man’s actions (Tatarkiewicz
1975: 66). The sources of rhetoric inventio were sought in various ‘storehouses’
of proofs and ideas (Korolko 1998: 64) – collections of reference materials for
speakers, such as quotes, metaphors, maxims, proverbs, or various texts. I shall call
them compendia of knowledge or, after Blair (2000), ‘reference works,’ which is
a handy term covering all encyclopedic and encyclopedic-dictionary collections.
I shall use an extensive fragment of the entry ‘Encyclopedias’ featured in the book
Encyclopedia of Scientific Revolution: From Copernicus to Newton:
[…] more practically oriented authors developed diverse types of bulky reference works,
which were rarely entitled “encyclopedia” (“theatrum, “thesaurus,” “systema” or “silva” are
some of the colorful metaphors used instead). These included well-established genres like
the dictionary, arranged alphabetically but containing more than strictly linguistic expla-
nations (e.g., Ambrogio Calepino’s 1435–1511, Dictionarium, first published 1502), and
the encyclopedic commentary, modeled on Aulus Gellius (ca. 130–170), which contained
much information in a self-consciously rambling order, made usable by an alphabetical
topical index (e.g. Caelius Rhodiginus, 1453–1425, Lectiones antiquae (Ancient Selec-
tions), first published 1542). New genres included bibliographies like Conrad Gessner’s
(1516–1565) Bibliotheca universalis (1545) designed as a guide to all known books and,
in principle, as the first step toward a complete index of the contents of the books (the
goal of Gessner’s unfinished Pandectae, 1548–1549). Commonplace books like Theodor
Zwinger’s (1533–1588) Theatrum humanae vitae, first published 1565, sorted information
under systematically arranged topical headings but were also accessible through multi-
ple alphabetical indices. Subject encyclopedias focused on specific fields were especially
numerous in natural history, which authors like Ulisse Aldrovandi (1522–1605) and Jan
Jonston (1603–1675) generating many volumes on birds, fish, quadrupeds, and insects.
Johann Heinrich Alsted’s (1588–1638) Encyclopaedia (1630) was one of the few works to
combine the title with a philosophical organizational scheme and a detailed treatment of
each discipline. (Blair 2000: 89)
Rhetoric of (and in) the early modern encyclopedia 59
In this junction, it is worth reminding that before the German Protestant, Johann
Heinrich Alsted, the term ‘encyclopedia’ was used in the title of his work by Paul
Scaliger: Encyclopaediae seu Orbis disciplinarum, tam sacrarum quam prophanar-
um, Epistemon (Basileae, 1559). Still earlier, in 1538, also in Basel, a compendium
authored by Joachim Fortius Sterck van Ringelberg was published, the title of
which contained the word kyklopaideia, as well as an indication of what the con-
tents within are, namely: De ratione studii (clear reference to Erasmus’ work of
the same title) and then: grammar, dialectics, rhetoric, mathematics and various
philosophical issues (Ioachimi Fortii Ringelbergii Andoverpiani lucubrationes, vel
potius absolutissima kyklopaideia: nempe liber de Ratione studii, utriusque lin-
guae Grammatice, Dialectice, Rhetorice[,] Mathematice, & sublimioris Philosophiae
multa, Basileae 1538). The book was clearly used as a school manual, and its con-
siderable portion was dedicated to the rules and principles of rhetoric.
The Greek term kyklopaideia, i.e., ‘basic educational cycle’ or ‘circle of learning’,
was referred to a university curriculum. Subsequently, the term “[…] came to be ap-
plied to certain books because they were organized in the same way as the system of
education” (Burke 2000: 94). Ringelberg also understood encyclopedia “as a didactic
programme oriented towards giving the student global training before moving on
to specialist knowledge” (Angelini 2012: 277–278), that is the curriculum. With
time, this notion semantically shifted towards an autonomous entity, “self-contained
body” (Angelini 2012: 278). Encyclopedia started to be perceived as:
[…] general and universal knowledge which reveals the new awareness of procedures
of acquiring and ordering knowledge, and, above all, the awareness of a new identity for
the arts as a whole, characterized not by their being a “mirror of nature,” but by their
being the complete and perfect work of man, closer to the irreprehensible regularity of
the divine design than to the tangible world. (Angelini 2012: 272)
West (2002: 22) states that “[t]he encyclopedia as it was imagined in early modern
Europe was thus not a space where knowledge was produced, but where it was
preserved or discovered.” Many Renaissance humanists (e.g., Daniele Barbaro)
believed that knowledge represented by all sciences and arts was complete, global,
consistent and perfect, just like the divine universe was perfect and complete:
“Thus the universality of knowledge, the encyclopedia, had to be related not to ‘all
disciplines’ […] but rather to the ‘coniunctio’ and the ‘communicatio’ which turned
all these into a corpus unum” (Angelini 2012: 277). Johann Heinrich Alsted’s
(1630: 49) definition of encyclopedia was as follows: “Encyclopaedia est methodica
comprehensio rerum omnium, in hac vita homini discendarum.”
Blair (2010: 12) also notes that in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries
the notion of ‘encyclopedia’ in most cases, indeed, referred to the structure
Joanna Partyka
60
of relations between individual disciplines, and not to a compendium of any
detailed or general knowledge. Therefore, encyclopedia could not always be
used as a reference book. As a matter of fact, in Ars magna sciendi, authored by
a Jesuit polyhistor Athanasius Kircher (1669), we can find plenty of branching
diagrams and tables arranged in rows and columns establishing those relations.
The same end is served by the drawing of “Arbor philosophica” contained in the
same work (Kircher 1669, f. 251r), similar to numerous branching diagrams in
Theatrum vitae humanae by Theodor Zwinger (1565) and oval diagrams of inter-
relationships of sciences and arts in the work by Christofle de Savigny (1587) in
Tableaux accomplis de tous les arts libéraux. It is characteristic that in the latter
compendium the diagram representing the organization of the entire knowledge
is entitled Encyclopedie, ou la suite et liaison de tous les Arts et Sciences (Savigny
1587). Gregor Reisch’s (1503) Margarita philosophica, “a compendium of each
of the liberal arts and of natural and moral philosophy, with a subsection on the
mechanical arts, in a total of twelve books” (Blair 2010: 169), in its edition of
1583 was described by the publisher in the title as “perfectissima kyklopaideia”
(Reisch 1583). It was only in the 18th
century, upon the publication of Ephraim
Chambers’s Cyclopaedia (1728) and the Great French Encyclopedia, that a new
genre of a dictionary of sciences and arts named encyclopedia emerged. Nev-
ertheless, as Blair (2010: 12) writes: “In modern parlance […] it is reasonable
to speak of encyclopedic ambition as a central ingredient of the Renaissance
obsession with accumulating information.”
3.  Types of encyclopedias and types of knowledge
In an extremely extensive compendium of knowledge of almost 1300 pages, a genu-
ine and invaluable reference work by Konrad Gesner (1545), entitled Bibliotheca
Universalis, sive Catalogus omnium scriptorum locupletissimus, in which the ‘ration-
alized’ bibliography of all the literature known at that time written in Greek, Latin
and Hebrew was collected, we find fifty-six references to rhetoric works or works
discussing rhetoric issues, among other topics. The work, undoubtedly, constitutes
an invaluable aid in the teaching practice. Domenico Nani Mirabelli (1503), the
author of an almost seven hundred pages long florilegium, entitled Polyanthea,
explicitly writes that the work is addressed to young people who study rhetoric
(cf. Blair 2010: 178). The papal secretary for obvious reasons focuses primarily on
religious topics, though he is proud of the fact that he can offer the readers “defi-
nitions and descriptions; Latin translations of all Greek expressions; sentences of
philosophers, historians, and poets in Latin and Greek; and the tabular outline of
the larger topics” (Blair 2010: 178). Blair affirms that this encyclopedic opus, one
Rhetoric of (and in) the early modern encyclopedia 61
of the earliest of this type, is at the same time “aid to humanist rhetoric” and “aid to
piety and preaching.” On this occasion, it would be fitting to recall that the authors
of the compendia that have been mentioned here were in most cases professors of
rhetoric, just as Nani.
Nevertheless, we can find examples of slightly different encyclopedic works
which were not written in the circle of the university scholars, nor dedicated for
university students. They served to popularize basic knowledge on various areas.
Such encyclopedias were addressed to a different audience, they transmitted par-
tially different knowledge, and the authors applied different rhetorical strategies
(cf. Załęska 2015). In 1686 Richard Blome, an active publisher of cartographic and
illustrated books, published the work with a long baroque title: The gentleman’s
recreation: in two parts: the first being an encyclopedy of the arts and sciences … the
second part treats of horsmanship, hawking, hunting, fowling, fishing, and agricul-
ture: with a short treatise of cock-fighting …: all which are collected from the most
authentick authors, and the many gross errors therein corrected, with great enlarge-
ments …: and for the better explanation thereof, great variety of useful sculptures, as
nets, traps, engines, &c. are added for the taking of beasts, fowl and fish: not hitherto
published by any: the whole illustrated with about an hundred ornamental and
useful sculptures engraven in copper, relating to the several subjects. Evidently, the
encyclopedia was intended for the education of the British country gentleman.
Yeo (2001: 10) described it as “an example of the attempt to squeeze an expanded
array of subject into the traditional circle of sciences […]. Its subtitles reveal an
audacious attempt at clever packing, a combination of the liberal and practical
subjects appropriate for the landed gentry and other aspirants.” The compendium
consists of several Books, the first one containing “Rhetorick” (in the third place,
after grammar and poetry), apart from logic, divinity, metaphysics, philosophy,
moral philosophy, natural philosophy, the Cartesian philosophy, arithmetic, al-
gebra, geometry, surveying [planometria], stereometry, gauging, cosmography
and astrology, geography, navigation, dialing, architecture, fortification, war, gun-
nery, music, chronology, history, optics, sculpture, painting, graving and heraldy
(Blome 1686: 6–236). Rhetoric has its graphical representation in the form of an
oval diagram which offers a clear way of showing its various aspects.
Numerous and very popular reference works or compendia of knowledge, in-
cluding ‘encyclopedias,’ commonplace books, all summae, dictionaries, ‘libraries,’
‘theaters,’ books of secrets, miscellanea and florilegia, constituted an irreplace-
able source of rhetorical invention (inventio) for students (practicing the art of
speaking), preachers, lawyers, politicians and all other orators giving speeches in
public and in private. But they were also indispensable for writing treatises, his-
toriographic works, letters and speeches, as well as constructing documents and
Joanna Partyka
62
composing belles lettres texts, such as – in the case of school practice – panegyrics.
Commonplace books were extremely popular:
[I]n the classical period the Latin term ‘locus communis’ referred to a general argument
capable of being used in different situations. In his Institutiones Oratoriae, Quintilian dis-
cussed the notion of copia verborum in connection with the ability of a good orator to pro-
duce copious illustrations and embellishments from particular ideas; Renaissance writers
thought this facility was enhanced by a record of similar ideas in the same place in a note-
book. This practice had been followed in the middle ages, but it became more systematically
taught as part of rhetoric from the sixteenth century. (Yeo 2001: 104)
Some extended seventeenth-century commonplace books looked like encyclope-
dias. Both shared the idea of storing knowledge. Many of them focused primarily
on providing knowledge in the fields of grammar, history (frequently broadened
with geography) and rhetoric.
4.  Encyclopedic presentation of rhetoric
What place did rhetoric occupy in the system of knowledge represented by ref-
erence books, including encyclopedias, in their dual meaning? First of all, it is
important to remember that in the past the position and image of rhetoric was
expressed in explicit and implicit ways: verbally and visually. This was conditioned
by the character of culture, and was, to a large degree, visual. As a result, in en-
cyclopedias we can find some definitions of rhetoric next to its visual representa-
tion. In an extensive seven-volume compendium of knowledge, on thirty-seven
pages, Alsted (1630: 373; cf. also Plett 2004: 45) describes the structure and aims
of rhetoric as follows:
Rhetorica est ars tradens modum ornandi orationem. Estque generalis, vel specialis & illa
iterum est docens vel utens. Rhetorica generalis docens explicat finem, subjectum, & media
seu instrumenta sua. Finis Rhetoricae est tradere modum ornate dicendi. (Alsted 1630: 373)
[English translation: “Rhetoric is an art treating the mode of decorating an oration. And
it is general and special, the former being again either theoretical or practical. Theoreti-
cal (general) rhetoric explicates its end, subject and media or instruments. The end of
rhetoric is to handle the mode of speaking ornately.”]
As we see, the Protestant encyclopedist, following Petrus Ramus, reduced his dis-
cussion of rhetoric to elocutio and actio. Additionally, Alsted dedicated a separate
book of over six hundred pages to the art of rhetoric (Rhetorica, quatuor libris
proponens universum ornate dicendi modum, etc. Herbornae Nassoviorum 1616).
He made a distinction between good and bad rhetoric. At that time, rhetoric that
caused any harm to ethics was already clearly realized:
Rhetoric of (and in) the early modern encyclopedia 63
[…] in order to defend themselves […] from denunciations of rhetoric as morally, so-
cially, and aesthetically degraded and repugnant – in short as deformed and monstrous –
rhetoricians insist on metaphors identifying their art with a body that is ethically proper,
socially elevated, and aesthetically attractive. (Rebhorn 1995: 17)
This is how Rebhorn (1995: 17) summarizes metaphoric images of rhetoric: “the
‘body’ of rhetoric is always double, imagined as both a harmonious, well-propor-
tioned entity and a perverse and monstrous one.”
In the seventeenth century, rhetoric becomes ‘de-intellectualized’; it loses its
‘crown of scientia’, and ceases to be a science, although, in parallel, the current of
classical rhetoric continues to develop, retaining close relations with philosophy
(Korolko 1998: 190–191). This process was accompanied by a frequent juxtaposi-
tion of knowledge (scientia) and erudition, with the simultaneous identification
of erudition with encyclopedic (bookish) knowledge. Erudition based on those
reference books was frequently perceived as harmful (Pawlak 2012: 80–90). Peter
Burke (2000: 85) writes: “To know everything, or at least to know something about
everything, remained an ideal […] described as ‘general learning’, polymathia or
pansophia. […] All the same, this ideal was gradually abandoned.” The opinion
of the contemporary Polish social philosopher Zbigniew Ogonowski about the
author of Polymathia, Jan Jonston (1603–1675) – a Polish scholar of Scottish de-
scent – that “Jonston had neither a profound nor a creative mind, but was a great
erudite, as well as gifted and industrious compiler” (Ogonowski 1979: 89) would
not, therefore, be favorable to this humanist. This is all the more so because in the
time of Jonston, ‘compiling’ happened to be considered as suspicious.
In the world of Renaissance humanism, before Petrus Ramus, rhetoric still
reigned among other sciences. Later, attempts were made to dethrone it, though
the coup has never been totally successful. Johann Heinrich Alsted, who consid-
erably contained the role of rhetoric, which I mentioned above, stated in 1616
as follows:
This queen [Rhetoric] has no bounded region of any sort whose borders are contained
by fences, but it has utensils which all teachers of all subjects can use in adorning letters,
dialogues, orations, sermons, consultations, and similar things. (Alsted 1616: 5–6; see
also Rebhorn 1995: 5)
Therefore, Rhetoric remains to be the queen, though with somewhat lesser ‘pow-
ers’. In Cesare Ripa’s (1603) Iconologia, a repeatedly published iconographic com-
pendium indispensable for rhetorical education, Rhetorica was presented in the
following manner:
A fair Lady, richly cloth’d, with a noble Head-dress; very complaisant; holds up her right
Hand open; a Scepter in her left, with a Book; on the Skirt of her Petticoat are these
Joanna Partyka
64
Words, ORNATUS PERSUASIO; of a ruddy Complexion, with a Chimera at her Feet.
Fair and complaisant, because there is none so ill bred that is not sensible of the Charms
of Eloquence. Her open Hand shews Rhetoric discourses in a more open Way than Logic.
The Scepter, her Sway over Man’s Minds. The Book, Study requisite. The Motto denotes
its Business: The Chimera, the three Precepts of it; judicial, demonstrative, and delibera-
tive. (Ripa 1709: 80; fig. 319)
One of the earliest and at the same time most superb allegories of rhetoric is to
be found in the already mentioned Reisch’s encyclopedia Margarita philosophica
from 1503. The central figure in the woodcut entitled Typus in Rhetoricam is
the beautifully coiffed and sumptuously dressed lady with a crown on her head,
a sword symbolizing the sharpness of persuasion, and a lily coming out of her
mouth. Her widely spread arms embrace books supported by two men: an old
man hands her History and a young man − Poetry. There are inscriptions on
the rim of her magnificent robe: Enthymema and Exemplum. Rhetoric has the
attributes of a queen.
And the last example of a beautiful, although disconcerting (owing to its dual
meaning), allegory of Rhetoric is seen in the popular work by Christophor Giarda
Bibliotheca Alexandrinae Icones Symbolicae (1626, 1628; see also Giarda 1626: 76).
In its time it performed the function of a reference book, and presented Rhetoric
as a queen wearing a crown: it wears a rich dress in a floral pattern referring to
flores rhetorici – the trails and figures of elocution. In her right hand the Queen-
Rhetoric holds a caduceus, the symbol of the reign of the souls, and her open
left palm refers to the wealth of words. Gold chains come out of her mouth as a
reference to the legend of Hercules Gallicus. The three-headed Cerberus tied to
them denotes the extraordinary power of elocution. At the feet of Rhetoric there
is a smoking stove that symbolizes zeal and passion of the speaker (cf. Plett 2004:
509). Rhetoric lost nothing of her queenly majesty.
Pernot (2005), when analyzing the status of rhetoric in Antiquity, describes
it as a “Queen of the Curriculum” because rhetoric was the principal course of
study. “Rhetoric was the most popular by virtue of its generalist nature. […]. The
vast majority of the Empire’s movers and shakers ‘did’ rhetoric” (Pernot 2005:
145). Rhetoric maintained its high position as a queen until the mid-seventeenth
century. In that society rhetoric was performed as a basis of humanistic educa-
tion; every branch of knowledge benefited from it. Through ages in the hierarchy
of all sciences, rhetoric had the higher position, comparable to that of a queen.
Rhetoric of (and in) the early modern encyclopedia 65
5. Conclusions
In the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries encyclopedias served as an efficient
source of different types of knowledge. They shaped not only knowledge and
beliefs but also the system of values and worldview. Due to the type of the encyclo-
pedic text some specific kinds of rhetorical choices and strategies were imposed.
The argumentative standards differed according to the communication situation.
Popular encyclopedias, commonplaces and other reference books also created
rhetorical knowledge: they provided the reader with basic rhetorical strategies,
and developed rhetorical skills. The sixteenth and seventeenth century encyclope-
dia can be regarded as a symbol of knowledge. It accumulated all known sciences
and arts to provide the early modern society with information and images as well
as the conviction that the world has been organized in a proper, harmonious way.
Knowledge transferred by encyclopedias aimed to improve the world and make
people happier. Rhetoric as a queen of knowledge, the first in the hierarchy of
sciences, opened the way to examine in a systematic way the rest known sciences.
Thus rhetoric, “the art of arts and science of sciences, which took as its lofty goal
the production of the eloquent and effective citizen, the vir bonus peritus dicendi”
(Grafton 1985: 34), reigned over the process of knowledge acquisition.
Acknowledgements
This paper is based on research carried out in the framework of a project sup-
ported by the National Science Centre, Poland, granted on the basis of decision
number DEC-2011/03/B/HS2/055882.
Corpus of analyzed texts
Alsted, J. H. 1616. Rhetorica, quatuor libris proponens universum ornate dicendi
modum etc. Herbornae Nassaviorum: Herborn.
Alsted, J. H. 1639. Encyclopaedia septem tomis distincta. Herbornae Nassaviorum:
Herborn.
Blome, R. 1686. The gentleman’s recreation: in two parts. London: S. Roycroft for
Richard Blome.
Giarda, C. 1626. Bibliothecae Alexandrinae icones symbolicae P. D. Christofori Gi-
ardae … elogiis illustratae. Milan: Melchioris Malatestae Hered.
Kircher, A. 1669. Ars magna sciendi in XII libros digesta. Amsterdam: Apud Joannem
Jansonium à Waesberge & viduam Elizei Weyerstraet.
Joanna Partyka
66
Llull, R. [Attributed] 1515. In rhetoricam isagoge perspicacibus ingeniis expectata.
[Paris]: In Ascensianis aedibus.
Reisch, G. 1583. Margarita Philosophica, hoc est, Habituum seu disciplinarum
omnium, quotquot philosophiae syncerioris ambitu continentur, perfectissima
kyklopaideia. Basileae: Per Sebastianum Henricpetri.
Ripa, C. 1709. Iconologia or, Moral emblems. London: Benjamin Motte.
Savigny, Ch. de. 1587. Tableaux accomplis de tous les arts libéraux. Paris: J. et F.
de Gourmont frères.
Sterck van Ringelberg, J. F. 1538. Lucubrationes, vel potius absolutissima kyklo-
paideia: nempe liber de Ratione studii, utriusque linguae Grammatice, Dia-
lectice, Rhetorice[,] Mathematice, & sublimioris Philosophiae multa. Basileae:
Westhemerus.
References
Angelini, A. 2012. “Encyclopaedias and Architecture in the Sixteenth Century.” In
Lefèvre, W.; Renn, J.; Schoepflin, U. (eds.) The Power of Images in Early Modern
Science. Boston: Birkhäuser, 265–288.
Blair, A. M. 2000. “Encyclopedias.” In Applebaum, W. (ed.) Encyclopedia of the
Scientific Revolution From Copernicus to Newton. Garland Publishing, Inc.:
New York, 325–326.
Blair, A. M. 2010. Too Much to Know. Managing Scholarly Information before the
Modern Age. New Haven & London: Yale University Press.
Burke, P. 2000. A Social History of Knowledge. From Gutenberg to Diderot. Cam-
bridge: Polity.
Cherchi, P. 1993. “Enciclopedias y organización del saber de la antigüedad al
renacimiento.” In Rodríguez Cuadros, E. (ed.) De las academias a la encyclo-
pedia: el discurso del saber en la modernidad. Valencia: Ediciones Alfons el
Magnànim, 71–94.
Grafton, A. 1985. “The World of the Polyhistors: Humanism and Encyclopedism.”
Central European History 18 (1), 31–47.
Korolko, M. 1998. Sztuka retoryki. Przewodnik encyklopedyczny. Warszawa: Wiedza
Powszechna.
Ogonowski, Z. (ed.) 1979. Filozofia i myśl społeczna XV wieku. Vol. 2. Warszawa:
Państwowe Wydawnictwo Naukowe.
Pawlak, W. 2012. “De eruditione comparanda in humanioribus.” Studia z dziejów
erudycji humanistycznej w XVII wieku. Lublin: Wydawnictwo KUL.
Pernot, L. 2005. Rhetoric in Antiquity. Baltimore: The Catholic University of
America Press.
Rhetoric of (and in) the early modern encyclopedia 67
Plett, H. F. 2004. Rhetoric and Renaissance Culture. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Rebhorn, W. A. 1995. The Emperor of Men’s Minds. Literature and the Renaissance
Discourse of Rhetoric. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
Rossi, P. 2006. Logic and the Art of Memory: The Quest for a Universal Language.
London: Continuum.
Tatarkiewicz, W. 1975. Dzieje sześciu pojęć: sztuka, piękno, forma, twórczość, od-
twórczość, przeżycie estetyczne. Warszawa: Państwowe Wydawnictwo Naukowe.
West, W. N. 2002. Theatres and Encyclopedias in Early Modern Europe. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Yeo, R. 2001. Encyclopaedic Visions: Scientific Dictionaries and Enlightenment Cul-
ture. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Załęska, M. 2015. “Retoryka a wiedza: komunikacja niespecjalistyczna i specja-
listyczna.” In Załęska, M. (ed.) Retoryka w komunikacji specjalistycznej. War-
szawa: PTR, 53–83.
II.  Knowledge quality in late
modern society
Urszula Okulska
University of Warsaw
Science and ethics in the knowledge society:
A rhetorical perspective
Abstract: The chapter studies intercultural dialogue on the condition of modern scientific
knowledge. Focusing on the letters of Pope John Paul II to academic circles, the author
shows how the humanistic form of this exchange promotes the rhetorical construction
of ethically ‘integrated’ communities. The chapter identifies various rhetorical strategies
involved, such as inclusion, solidarity, or neutralization.
1. Introduction
Knowledge has always been taken as one of the many essential criteria in the
assessment of the level of cultural development. In the time of the accelerated
growth and extended scope of modern science, caused by the mediatization,
technologization and specialization of social life, the question arises as to the
quality, meaning and significance of knowledge thus attained for the general hu-
man condition in the age of Late Modernity (LM). Such issues are undertaken in
this chapter, which investigates the ethics of the recent scientific endeavor from
the perspective of the presence or absence in it of dialogic action, as the highest
communicative faculty in the human vita activa (cf. Arendt 1972, 1998, 2003).
As a form of human action in its discursive mode, dialogic action represents a
fundamental measure of the quality of scientific life observed in the rhetorical
elimination or constitution of the public world, which underlies its status quo.
These processes are explored in a sample of John Paul II’s correspondence to sci-
entists demonstrating textually mediated dialogue that the Pope conducted with
the scientific community on the strengths and weaknesses of modern scientific
practice. The rhetoric of this discourse is approached through the inspection of
objectifying validity claims in the letters’ argument structure (Habermas 1984).
They are shown as relevant impartiality markers of the intercultural dialogue
exchange, which proceeds towards reaching intersubjective understanding and
solidarity in the discussion of highly divisive and conflictual problems that
frustrate the academic domain.
Urszula Okulska
72
2. 
Man and science in Late Modernity: A socio-historical
background
The beginning of the 20th
century brought intensification and radicalization of
socio-economic changes that were initiated by the 17th
-century rise of the modern
age. The cultural revolution that came with new technical inventions and scientific
discoveries in LM has caused major institutional remodeling, which soon became
the hallmark of the opening period. The transition involved a shift from a previous
manufacturing system of producing material goods to a new system of process-
ing and consuming information. This created new conditions for the ‘mediation
of experience’ (e.g., Giddens 1994: 24) and its parallel ‘utilitarian rationalization’
(e.g., Giddens 1993: 12), according to the prevalent model of the means—to—end
intentionality. The former context-based institutions have been replaced by newly
arising knowledge-based organizations, whose ‘globalizing’ nature has split tradi-
tional contact cultures into dislocated social clusters ‘rationalized’ by fragmented
context-detached practices and routines. The growing social alienation that en-
sued, and the accelerated human productivity that it generated through the loss of
the sense of security and the wholesale dependence of production on inanimate
power sources, have both led to the ‘technologization’ and ‘commodification’ of
most activity in the new social order (e.g., Fairclough 1992). The shift of its focus
from fabricating use objects onto maximizing the efficiency of the process itself
has generally underlain the LM transition from ‘production’ to ‘consumption,’ as
another marker of the emerging ‘New Capitalist rationality.’ Aside from many of
its assets, including cross-cultural exchange, growth of social contacts and diver-
sity as well as new opportunities for individual mobility and development, it is
provided as one of the most important reasons for the deepening human isolation
and resultant demise of the human world in the age of post-modernity. By adopt-
ing the goal-oriented means—to—end mentality it reduced man to the role of a
self-reliant and solitary ‘maker,’ thus excluding others from the realization of their
own self-designated goals (esp. Arendt 1998). By the subsequent incorporation of
the designated ends as means into a longer chain of social systems, it made those
ends (together with man himself as their creator), ‘instruments’ of the endless
network of the larger social organization (esp. Habermas 1984). The linguistic
effects of these shifts are visible today in the rising level of aggression in social life,
which is a consequence of the substitution of communicative action – focused on
reaching understanding, as a constitutive force of the shared, public world, with
success-oriented instrumental action – as a discursive medium of various forms
of interactive competition, hostility and exclusion.
Science and ethics in the knowledge society 73
Parallel consumption, marketization and mass engineering of knowledge can
be traced in the field of modern science (see also Molek-Kozakowska and Wag-
ner this volume). From ‘cognitive work,’ traditionally defined as a vehicle for ‘the
eternal truth of Being’ given in contemplation as its primary aim (the Socratic
school), it changed at the turn of the modern period (esp. with the discovery of
the Archimedean point) to a form of practice experimenting with nature by means
of human thinking and hand-made instruments (Arendt 1998: 248–325). The
historical order, which had originally given priority to the vita contemplativa –
the highest and truth-reaching human faculty (theōria), was thus reversed into a
new one, which after the demise of contemplation (now considered insufficient
to make science) placed thinking only (previously the closest step to contempla-
tion) beneath the (formerly) lower order activities of the vita activa (labor, work,
action). In contrast to contemplation, these practical faculties have always marked
one’s active engagement (praxis) in the things of the human world, understood as
“a home for men during their life on earth” (Arendt 1998: 173). With the modern
loss of contemplation, to which they all originally aspired, and in which they all
originally culminated, they were themselves uplifted to the position earlier oc-
cupied by the former. Its direct predecessor, thinking, in turn, was relegated to
the subordinate role of a medium of processes ‘creating’ nature. They became a
major point of interest to strictly scientific practices in the age of modernity. This
new reversal of contemplation and action, has brought serious consequences to
the quality of modern scientific practice itself. More specifically, the latter has now
started to show unprecedented creativity, paralleled with the complete eclipse of
human action, whose attributes it has begun to absorb. All this has broken scien-
tists’ initial bonds with the world’s natural sphere. In the course of modern devel-
opment it also deepened people’s alienation from the world’s human sphere, thus
causing progressive disintegration between LM science and LM society in general.
On the one hand, this shift can be said to have confirmed man’s predominantly
‘non-practical’ nature. It emerged in his (initially) non-practical search for ‘useless
knowledge’ as its goal. Instigated purely by human ‘idle curiosity,’ the drive was
observed especially in the rather ‘incidental’ invention of tools in its course. The
‘side-effect’ of this pursuit was the use in early modern scientific work specific de-
vices merely as its ‘by-products.’ Additionally, the orientation of such an approach
exclusively to theoretical (and not practical) reasons, of gaining (1) knowledge
and (2) its certainty from ‘making’ nature, invoked to some extent the former
contemplative stance in its attempt to ‘behold’ the investigated matter for its own
sake. On the other hand, this attitude became itself meaningless with the ongoing
focus of modern science on the process as its new goal. It concurrently relocated
Urszula Okulska
74
‘(thought) things’ or ‘objects of knowledge’ (at which science formerly aimed) to
the position of its mere means in the chain of the human faculty of work, where
scientific practice has always belonged. This not only undermined contemplation
as an ideal and ultimate end point (telos) of scientific endeavor, but also reversed
the means—ends hierarchy within the sphere of production itself. From then on,
knowledge has not been derived from nature, or given to the human mind, but
was rather man-made, or produced by human conceptual and technical tools. Ac-
cording to Arendt (1998), instead of nature, as a source of objects that constitute
the tangible sphere of the human world, such science has finally represented only
man himself (1998: 265–267). The severed bond with the earth-bound experience
that modern knowledge has thus caused became one of many other symptoms of
the afore-mentioned man’s increasing alienation from the world (1998: 251–257;
see also Giddens esp. 1993: 14–29, 1994: 8–9). Put differently, under such condi-
tions “knowledge concerned only what one had done himself – so that its ideal
became mathematical knowledge, where we deal only with self-made entities of
the mind – and second, that knowledge was of such a nature that it could be tested
only through more doing” (Arendt 1998: 290).
From this perspective, the modern focus on processes (means) rather than
things (ends) in science reflects, on the one hand, the general blending of ‘making’
with ‘knowing’, and on the other, making (rather than discovering) what we want
to know (cf. the current shift from the what/why to the how of science; Arendt
1998: 296). This has brought at least twofold consequences for the balance of the
overall human condition. First, it has paralleled the mode of scientific production
(from the realm of work) with that of action – the highest of all practical human
capacities (Arendt 1998: 175–247). By taking the latter’s attributes it has colonized
and eclipsed its sphere, thus depriving the human world of its equilibrium, which
(normally) for this world’s stability needs help from both labor and work. Second,
it has subsequently converted the ‘end-less’ scientific fabrication into consumption
(from the realm of labor), thus making the lowest of the human faculties govern
mechanisms of generation and transmission of knowledge. When it comes to
the first transition, the replacement of contemplation with thinking in LM work
in general, and (scientific) production in particular, has made the latter acquire
a definite beginning, as in traditional action. In contrast to pre-modern science,
which derived its roots infinitely back from nature, modern science has taken its
origin from man himself and the ingenuity of his mind. The simultaneous elimina-
tion from this new scientific practice its clear end point, defined in the course of
time by the idea of utility (subsuming the mentality of homo faber, and oriented
more or less to the service of man himself), equipped people with unlimited
Science and ethics in the knowledge society 75
creativity in this field. It namely added to production the second quality of action
linked with its capacity to unchain endless processes. The qualitative difference,
however, in this case between traditional human action and modern scientific
fabrication (developed in the mode of action) is that the processes that the latter
tends to launch have largely lost their direct tie with the world. By making ad-
vanced artifice of unlimited ingenuity and sophistication, the new science has si-
multaneously ceased to guarantee that this artifice will build a place fit for human
action and speech, i.e., for what the world and humanity that it itself constitutes
have always meant to be (Arendt 1998: 173). In such realization, LM science has
thus stopped, with remaining forms of LM work rendered in the same way, serv-
ing people’s safety and common good. As a result, instead of giving support for
social well-being, scientifically produced innovations have in many cases started
to pose an open or latent threat to humanity’s own fate, frequently endangering
its balance or (even) future survival (e.g., Giddens 1993: 9–10)
When it comes to the second transition, in turn, the insistence of modern
science on the process itself, at the expense of (thought) things/objects, has
made LM scientific practice a mere tool for making further tools in the limitless
chain of LM fabrication. Its elimination of the principle of (product) utility with
the advent of commercial society has introduced the consumer principle of ‘the
greatest happiness of the greatest number’ (see Arendt 1998: 308). Replacing
the former ‘utility value’ with the incoming ‘exchange value,’ the new science
has also replaced its former tenet, guided by the rationality of homo faber, with
the incoming one, expressing the rationality of animal laborans. According to
Arendt (1998), the new approach has treated knowledge – an outcome of scien-
tific work – as a product that “is valued not for its predetermined usage but ‘for
its production of something else.’” In the restricted frame of reference of homo
faber – traditionally “the builder of the human artifice who incidentally invents
tools,” the value of such a thing becomes secondary only, with the simultaneous
decline of the primary value. This amounts to saying that the devaluation of
primary values in the world does not at the same time preclude the devalua-
tion of secondary values, which in the final analysis may lead to no values at all
(Arendt 1998: 307–309). As Arendt observes, the last scenario, of the radical loss
of values, almost automatically takes place as soon as the producer of objects
(including the scientist as a producer of knowledge):
considers himself primarily a toolmaker and ‘particularly [a maker] of tools to make
tools’ who only incidentally also produces things. If one applies the principle of utility in
this context at all, then it refers primarily not to use objects and not to usage but to the
production process. Now what helps stimulate productivity and lessens pain and effort is
useful. In other words, the ultimate standard of measurement is not utility and usage at
Urszula Okulska
76
all, but ‘happiness’, that is, the amount of pain and pleasure experienced in the production
or in the consumption of things. (Arendt 1998: 309)
In consequence of this reversal, the process of (scholarly) work and production
underlying it is superseded by its lower variant of (cognitive) labor and consump-
tion underlying it. All this happens with the concurrent colonization and eclipse
of human action, whose sole and true measure is the ‘integral plurality’ of people.
In the balanced structure of the human condition, the latter constitutes, together
with the two remaining components, ethical foundations of the highest rank in
the hierarchy of the vita activa, namely the acting person (henceforth Person;
e.g., Ricoeur 1992a, b; Grillo 2005a, b, c; Okulska forthc.). Their domination by,
first, the mentality of homo faber and, second, that of animal laborans (with the
simultaneous elimination from scholarly work its telos, previously indicated by
contemplation and thinking) has led to the LM practice of science in the mode
of labor and consumption. The (evident) outcome of this remodeling is not only
a (widely observed) decrease in academic standards, but also the parallel and
inevitable collapse in human sense-making and moral standards in the academy
and other work domains. All these mechanisms reflect the broader phenomenon
of social alienation in the age of LM. They, moreover, inscribe in, and are part of,
the more global tide linked with the modern demise of public and, hence, also
scholarly life (esp. Faiclough 1999: 130–166; cf. also Habermas 1984; Giddens
1993, 1994; Fairclough 1989, 1992, 2003; Chouliaraki and Fairclough 2005; etc.).
3.  Research perspective and scope
In the light of the current exposure of the academy to the alienating forces of
newly devised abstract systems, growing industrial pressures and tightening
bonds with economy, the modern scientist increasingly experiences, what can
be termed, ‘instrumentalization,’ ‘technologization,’ ‘marketization’ and ‘com-
modification’ of his/her discipline (for the workings of these processes in LM,
see esp. Fairclough 1992). What is more, the consumption pursuit that this field
has started to evince, in its becoming of the means to some other unlimited (often
‘thought-less’, relative or ill-defined – i.e., ‘de-humanized’) ‘higher ends,’ has also
made its practitioners – scientists – experience their own ‘detached’ and – what
follows – ‘decontextualized’ (or senseless) status in this domain. From an enrich-
ing system that has been meant to uncover (the human capacity for) the truth of
this world, modern science has started, under the above-mentioned conditions,
to change in its vast terrains (often) into ritual, schematic, quantitative and me-
diocre intellectual labor. Instead of the human potential for uniqueness, initiative
and originality – all underlying academic quality and competence, it frequently
Science and ethics in the knowledge society 77
generates various forms of aggression, radiating both towards and outside this
domain. They include, inter alia, ‘rat-race’ competitiveness, speciality marginali-
zation or nepotism (for a broader discussion of these problems, see also Wagner
this volume), as well as serious physical and technological threats endangering
man himself and his civilization.
The question that arises in this context concerns the place of man in the mod-
ern academy and rhetorical construals of his role in the public debate on the ethi-
cal side of recent scientific enterprise. Some aspects of this debate will be explored
in this chapter on the example of selected texts of Pope John Paul II’s correspond-
ence addressed to scholarly circles during his pontificate. It will be shown, with
the help of the Transformative Approach to Conflict (Bush and Folger 2005) and
concepts of Narrative Mediation (Winslade and Monk 2000, 2008), both realizing
the Dialogic Model of Discourse (Grillo ed. 2005), how the Pope encourages the
process of inter-cultural dialogue aimed to disclose strengths and weaknesses of
the modern academic community. These will be presented from the perspective
of the rhetorical presence (or absence) in discourse of ‘self’ and ‘another.’ Their
dialogic inclusion is indispensable for the constitution of ethically ‘integrated’
personal identity (Ricoeur 1992a) of both the scientist him/herself as well as the
addressees of their research (on ethico-discoursal integration, see esp. Gold 1993,
Umbreit 1997, Grillo 2005a, b, c). On the one hand, it enables to designate a
definite ‘end point’ for the LM scientific process through ‘thinking out’ mindful
objects of study, which are at the same time its clear ‘(humane) aims.’1
On the
other hand, it additionally invokes in this practice the eclipsed component of the
vita activa, namely human action (Arendt 1998). Together with its two support-
ing elements (labor and work), the revived human action can thus pave a direct
way to (scholarly) ethical ‘thinking’ (cf. also Arendt 2003: esp. 159–189). It will be
treated as one of the markers of the integrating human condition on the profes-
sional (academic) terrain. The restored quality of this condition will uncover the
ethically grounded status in it of both the researcher as well as recipients of his/her
work. As self-/other-conscious and self-constant Persons, they take as the measure
of all things the principle of ‘human plurality in common and concert with others’
(Arendt 1998: 175–247). This is in stark contrast to standards accepted by animal
laborans and homo faber, who in scientific goals, methods and applications derive
the measure of all things, respectively, from the principle of ‘the maximum benefit/
pleasure at the minimal cost/effort’ (consumption), and that of mundane utility
1	 Internal bonds between contemplation (and thus [indirectly] thinking) and modern
(scientific) work are thoroughly discussed in Arendt (1998: 301–304).
Urszula Okulska
78
(production). In the realm of science, the dialogic principle of ‘human integrated
plurality’ translates into one’s disinterested attempt to provide context-rooted and
meaningful knowledge conveyed in connection and consent with both oneself and
others as research authors and addressees.
The double allegiance that such an approach shows to both human action and
teleological thinking embodies the participatory idea of work that can find its
realization in LM science. More specifically, the basis of scholarly life in human
action gives raison d’être to the knowledge thereby obtained, and accommodates
this knowledge in the human world. This is reflected in the significance that the
science-generated ‘physical/mental artifice’ acquires in the constitution of shared
human space within the vita activa. Moreover, the internal affinity that the par-
ticipatory mode of science establishes with action consequently leads to creative
‘thinking’ with others, as its ultimate aim. Not only does it enable its participants –
both scientists and knowledge users – to aspire towards ‘thought-full’ ends and
their mindful reproduction through intellectual work. More importantly, it ad-
ditionally enacts the people’s human potential for ‘power with others’ (henceforth
‘Power’) – typical of action (see, esp. Arendt 1972, 1998, 2003; Ricoeur 1992; Grillo
2005a, b, c; cf. also Węgrzecki 2014; etc.), as opposed to ‘power for/against or over
others’ (viz. domination; henceforth ‘power’) – typical of pure fabrication or con-
sumption (esp. Fairclough 1989; see also Bourdieu 1992, Wodak 1996, van Dijk
1998, Chilton 2004, Wodak and Chilton eds. 2005, Okulska and Cap eds. 2010,
etc.). What, however, should be stressed in terms of the latter is, in Grillo’s words,
that “obviously, the domination enterprise cannot be reduced to crude violence: in
order to ‘work’ correctly, it must be endowed with some kind of legitimacy which,
in turn, can be grounded in authority, charisma or legality” (Grillo 2005b: 8). The
former, by contrast, not only restores the common ground (Clark 1996) for and
(thus) intelligibility of (otherwise detached) scientific effort. It also actualizes in
people their identity of ‘authentic human subjects’ (i.e., suppositum, henceforth
‘Subject’), who can take full responsibility for science development and use, and
navigate its course in the flow of public life that they thereby revive.
In what follows, the process of scientific participation will be presented as
dialogic action (Okulska forthc.), defined as a discursive rendition of human ac-
tion (Arendt 1998) in its communicative disclosure (Habermas 1984). It oper-
ates through mechanisms of ‘reaching understanding,’ which takes place when
“a speaker selects a comprehensible linguistic expression only in order to come
to an understanding with a hearer about something and thereby to make himself
understandable” (Habermas 1984: 307). In fully reciprocal exchange (see esp.
Ricoeur 1992a: 180–194), the interactants do it through coordinating (at least)
Science and ethics in the knowledge society 79
three types of ‘criticizable validity claims’ (VC), to use the Habermasian idea.
These include the claims for truthfulness, rightness and truth, which allow speakers
to include, respectively, themselves, each other and their (shared) subject matter(s)
rhetorically in discourse. The harmonization of these claims leads to a situation
when “at least two speaking and acting subjects understand a linguistic expression
in the same way.” This establishes communicative agreement between the parties
in three dimensions of dialogic action (cf. also Habermas 1984: 327–328). On the
expressive plane (‘dramaturgical action’ – henceforth E dimension), the agreement
denotes mutual trust in subjective sincerity, produced by the VC for the truthful-
ness of the speakers’ beliefs, intentions, feelings, desires, etc. On the regulative
plane (‘normative action’ – R dimension), it denotes normative accord, produced
by the VC for the rightness/legitimacy of intersubjective relations. Finally, on
the epistemic plane (‘cognitive action’ – C dimension), it denotes correctness and
acceptance of shared propositional knowledge, produced by the VC for the truth
of statements and presuppositions made (Habermas 1984: 307–308). By securing
and accepting all these claims simultaneously in a single speech act, its sender
and recipient together recognize, correlatively, (1) “a subjective experience that is
manifested and ascribed to the internal world of the speaker,” (2) “an action that is
[regarded] as legitimate in the social world,” and (3) the existence of a state of af-
fairs in the objective world (Habermas 1984: 309 [emphasis by the Author & UO]).
The three dimensions of action oriented to reaching understanding are respon-
sible for establishing a wide-ranging consensus between the three world spheres
(cf. Grillo 2005b: 19). Aside characteristic manifestations of this consensus in vast
social practice (see esp. Rogers 1961, 2002; Duffy 2009; Sharaby 2013; Graf and
Pawelczyk 2014; Feder Kittay 2014; Muntigl, Knight and Watkins 2014; etc.), it has
a special function also in scientific theorizing. This may further confirm inherent
affinity of participatory renditions of the latter, operating primarily on the world’s
‘objective’ plane, with dialogic realizations of the former, operating primarily on
the world’s ‘intersubjective’ (internal—social) plane. More specifically, to describe
the realization of this consensus in science, explanations provided there “must
fit with phenomena, even if, as a result, the previously agreed beliefs have to be
ruled out. It follows that (…) in [this] case [‘Truth’] is defined more in terms of
some kind of homology between our conceptual artifacts and (observable and
measurable) phenomena” (Grillo 2005b: 19). For the quality of contemporary
science this further means that:
the possible lack of any given previous consensus will not suffice to rule out an expla-
nation, provided that it fits with the relevant phenomena; then, if a consensus is to be
achieved here, it will result only from the fulfilment of the varied procedures by which
Urszula Okulska
80
the given explanation at issue will have to be challenged and criticised in order to be (pos-
sibly) validated. To that extent, it would be mistaken to hold that ‘Truth’ always depends
on consensus; in such cases, it is the consensus itself which depends on truth, provided that
the relevant validation procedures have been correctly and overtly applied. As a result,
in such cases the consensus will only result from the varied discursive processes by which
the explaining statement will have to exhibit simultaneously its soundness, its relevance,
and its trustworthiness. (Grillo 2005b: 19 [emphasis – UO])
It can be concluded that the communicative practice of negotiating dynamically
(scientific) consensus about the (structure of the LM) world leads to the simulta-
neous disclosure of the truth of this world, with the parallel ‘appearance’ of human
reality underlying it (cf. Arendt 1998: esp. 208). As Grillo (2005b: 21–22) ob-
serves, such a participatory context provides room for the production of ‘genuine
knowledge,’ whose true novelty and sharedness are able to terminate old (habitual)
beliefs, opinions, ideologies and prejudices. It arises from the common control of
communicating partners over processes of validating semantic innovations, which
allows the parties “to overcome the inter-personal as well as the inter-institutional
conflicts they are facing; provided, of course, that they want to” (Grillo 2005a: xi).
The indicator of the worldly provenance of the ‘new shared knowledge’ is that
it cannot be equaled with “a subset of social beliefs which, for social reasons (cul-
tural, political, etc.) have acquired a particular status in social cognition, a status
which warrants them the widest possible agreement on the one hand, and allows
them to play a prominent role in legitimation strategies of different kinds on the
other” (Grillo 2005c: 234–235). What precisely distinguishes ‘worldly’ knowledge
from detached or insubstantial ‘interpretations,’ ‘beliefs’ or ‘ideologies’ (also) in
the field of science is that:
the sharing of mere beliefs relies on a kind of agreement which is only subjectively
grounded, in so far as it requires no more than personal trustworthiness, while the shar-
ing of knowledge requires an objectively grounded agreement, requiring mutual criticism,
common control, and systematic relation to facts. (Grillo 2005c: 235 [emphasis – UO]).
This further emphasizes that carrying out processes of ‘humane’ science re-
quires “the collaboration of the communicating partners, who in such practices
must be on an equal footing when sharing the semantic initiative and exerting a
common control over the overall communicative process” (Grillo 2005b: 19–20
[emphasis – UO]). The knowledge thus obtained acquires its qualitative status
through the fact that it satisfies “validation procedure[s] which must be both
public and reiterative, such a requirement being useless in the case of belief,
which may be agreed upon on the basis of mere subjective preference” (Grillo
2005c: 235). This is to say that:
Science and ethics in the knowledge society 81
the act of criticising a given ideology cannot necessarily be reduced to the mere construc-
tion of a counter ideology: it may result in the overcoming of the previous ideological
cleavages, and the sharing of new knowledge which has been produced in the very course
of the interaction itself. If communicative interaction is to be thought of as a process,
and as a process which, moreover, allows for belief change, then we must consider that
in the course of the interaction, we move from an initial state (often characterised by
ideological cleavages) to a terminal state which does not necessarily reproduce them.
(Grillo 2005c: 235)
The final stage of terminating an old (scholarly) belief/ideology is precisely the
moment of launching a new qualitative and dialogically verified scientific pro-
cedure. Its sound unfolding, measured by ‘humanely creative’ development of
knowledge, is possible only through the world revival in the synergy between
scientific work and the tripartite dialogic action. In Habermasian terms, this takes
place when scholars and knowledge users embed their utterances equally in the
three harmonized world relations: cognitive (C), regulative (R) and expressive
(E). They are orchestrated precisely through the three VCs secured in the partici-
pants’ “coming to an understanding about something with one another and thus
making themselves understandable” (Habermas 1984: 308 [emphasis – UO]). The
communicative synchronization of both the claims and the ensuing relations is
the speakers’ guarantee of their world’s validity. It also materializes the dialogic
presence in (scientific) discourse of, respectively, substantial thematic content
(C), which is deliberated by an authentic participatory community (R) of living
personal Subjects (E). By the same token, it discloses the ‘integrating’ human con-
dition (Arendt 1998) in the inherent equilibrium of the constitutively ‘integrating’
world (Habermas 1984: esp. 98–100; also Ricoeur 1992a, Grillo ed. 2005, Okulska
forthc.; cf. also Cloke 2001, Bush and Folger 2005, etc.).
In the present research, the three types of VCs, which – rhetorically speaking –
reformulate Toulmin’s (1958, 1972) original conception of argument in order to ob-
serve the standpoint of impartiality (presupposing the cooperative search for truth
via ‘discursively redeeming VCs’ – for a discussion, see Habermas 1984: 31–42,
esp. 34–35), will be presented as semanto-pragmatic markers of conclusions
ending at different levels of institutional ex/implicitness (cf. higher-level validity
claims; Habermas 1984: 40) the arguments raised in the texts studied. Together
with related grounds, warrants and backing, the claims realize simultaneously
the process, procedure and product aspects of argumentative speech. The first con-
sists in satisfying conditions of interactive symmetry that must be presupposed
by every competent speaker the moment they enter an argumentative situation.
As Habermas has it:
Urszula Okulska
82
[p]articipants in argumentation have to presuppose in general that the structure of their
communication, by virtue of features that can be described in purely formal terms, ex-
cludes all force – whether it arises from within the process of reaching understanding
itself or influences it from the outside – except the force of the better argument (and thus
that it also excludes, on their part, all motives except that of a cooperative search for the
truth). (Habermas 1984: 25)
In this light, argumentation functions as “a reflective continuation, with different
means, of action oriented to reaching understanding” (Habermas 1984: 25 [empha-
sis by the Author]). Its second, ‘procedural’ aspect, in turn, emphasizes the inter-
active form of argumentation, which is “subject to special rules.” The cooperative
division of labor underlying the discursive process of reaching understanding be-
tween the participants is normatively arranged in such a way that they “thematize
a problematic validity claim and, relieved of the pressure of action and experience,
in a hypothetical attitude, test with reasons, and only with reasons, whether the
claim defended by the proponents rightfully stands or not” (Habermas 1984: 25).
Such ‘reasoned examination’ uncovers the third, ‘product’ layer of argumentation,
which brings forth cogent arguments, as the procedure’s ultimate results. Their
intrinsic properties equip the arguments with their invaluable force of convincing
that can either redeem or reject the particular VCs. The participatory recognition
in dialogically processed argumentation of a proponent’s hypothetically raised VC
is a moment when their voice thus far argued is publicly acknowledged as genu-
ine ‘intersubjective knowledge’ (Habermas 1984: 25; cf. Grillo 2005b, c; for the
influence of argument structure on the constitution and transmission of scientific
knowledge, see esp. Plantin and Freddi this volume).
The extent to which the three levels of argumentation are interrelated indicates
that truly dialogic action, aimed at reaching understanding and, consequently, at
intersubjective and worldly integration, is best characterized by a balanced merger
of the three argument dimensions. Generally, it jointly includes:
from the process perspective (…) the intention of convincing a universal audience and
gaining general assent for an utterance; from the procedural perspective, (…) the inten-
tion of ending a dispute about hypothetical validity claims with a rationally motivated
agreement; and from the product perspective (…) the intention of grounding or redeeming
a validity claim with arguments. (Habermas 1984: 26)
In the following parts of this paper, it will be shown how these three argumenta-
tion aspects altogether texture the different topoi of the correspondence studied.
They will thus reveal the rhetorical workings of both the arguments themselves
as well as their higher- or lower-level VCs for the overall unfolding of the let-
ters’ inventio (e.g., Perelman and Olbrechts-Tyteca 1969; on relations between
Science and ethics in the knowledge society 83
argumentation and rhetorical invention, see also Plantin and Freddi this volume;
diverse sources of rhetorical invention in the historical development of scientific
knowledge are discussed by Partyka this volume). The practice of building by Pope
John Paul II the argumentative structure of his letters to scientists will be discussed
from the perspective of two phases that shaped the intercultural dialogue that the
author carried out with the academic community during his pontificate. It will be
demonstrated, according to premises of the Transformative Approach to Conflict
(Bush and Folger 2005; see also Cloke 2001, etc.), how this dialogue, in its (afore-
mentioned) cognitive, regulative and expressive dimensions, proceeds through
the complex rhetorical moves of empowerment and recognition, to gradually lead
its participants towards intersubjective and worldly integration. In Bush and
Folger’s words, the discourse activities of empowerment “help disputing parties
activate their inherent capacity for deliberation and decision making in adverse
circumstances.” As a result, the participants gain “a greater sense of strength of
self, including self-respect, self-reliance, and self-confidence” (2005: 13). The dis-
course activities of recognition “help individuals activate their inherent capacity
for understanding the problems of others.” They thus engender “acknowledgment
and concern for each other as fellow human beings” (2005: 14). Both groups of the
speech activities “allow parties to define problems and goals in their own terms,
thus validating the importance of those problems and goals in the parties’ lives.”
They, moreover, “support the parties’ exercise of self-determination in deciding
how, or even whether, to settle a dispute, and (…) help the parties mobilize their
own resources to address problems and achieve their goals” (2005: 13).
Observed from a broader socio-ethical perspective, the two genres realize in
a nonlinear way the process of discursive transformation, viewed as “a [radical]
change in the quality of conflict interaction” (Bush and Folger 2005: 18). To make
it clear, in the sense advocated here, transformation does not mean (only) “the
restructuring of social institutions in a way that redistributes power and eliminates
class privilege” (2005: 17). As Bush and Folger argue, “[w]hen the term is used
to mean institutional restructuring, it does not carry any necessary implication
of qualitatively different social interaction, but rather connotes a reallocation of
material benefits and burdens among individuals and groups.” For this reason,
transformation, as understood here, “connotes [first of all] change in the quality
[i.e., means] of social interaction, in and beyond conflict.” Although “this kind of
change will very likely lead to changes in social institutions as well,” they represent
a natural consequence of this process, rather than its main priority (2005: 18; see
also Okulska forthc.). Framed in scholarly terms, dialogic transformation em-
bodies, then, the shift from agonistic discourse culture to participatory discourse
Urszula Okulska
84
culture (cf. Tannen 1998: esp. 237–290, Bush and Folger 2005: 14). It also actual-
izes in the practitioners of modern science their ‘human spirit’ cf. Arendt 1998:
95, 2003: 49; Tannen 1998: 147–150; Cloke 2001: 108–125; Ingarden 2009: esp.
29–48), which parallels the enactment in their professional work of true ‘Subjec-
tivity’ and ‘Personhood’ (Ricoeur 1992a, b). These all bring scientists back to the
living world, and generate prospective integration, consolidation and revival of
their domains (cf. Bush and Folger 2005: 23–26, 34–39, 53–62).
The research is based on a sample of three diplomatic letters that John Paul II
(henceforth JPII) sent to academics on occasions of scholarly conferences, semi-
nars and meetings arranged to discuss current problems of contemporary science.
The material studied includes The Letter to the Scientists Gathered at the Meeting of
Erice (1982) [EM 1982], The Letter to the Participants of the International Seminar
“Science, Technology and Spiritual Values” (Tokyo 1987) [TS 1987] and The Let-
ter to Participants of the International Conference on “Conflict of Interest and its
Significance in Science and Medicine” (Warsaw 2002) [WC 2002]. All the texts are
authorized English language versions of the papal correspondence published at
the official web site of the Holy See: www.vatican.va.
4. 
The rhetoric of JPII’s dialogue with the
academic community
As has been signaled above, the major rhetorical moves of empowerment and rec-
ognition that structure the Pope’s letters to scientists consist of complex speech
activities that mediate the two genres discursively. Their aim is to carry out the
process of mutual facilitation (e.g., Greatbatch and Dingwall 1999; Winslade and
Monk 2000, 2008; Kovach 2004; Muntigl 2004; Bush and Folger 2005; Rycielski and
Żylicz 2007; Gmurzyńska 2009; Waszkiewicz 2009; Pawelczyk 2011, etc.), whereby
all the parties concerned, i.e., the author himself, (direct) recipients of his corre-
spondence as well as other (third) parties, can (re)gain ‘human togetherness’ in the
relational experience of intersubjective presence, solidarity, complementariness and
freedom. The stage of empowerment is rhetorically transmitted by three groups of
arguments whose VCs jointly aim to (re)establish the human world in the realm
of academy through the disclosure of its three inherent aspects. The first group in-
cludes references to interpersonal connection, respect, support and gratitude within
and beyond the academic community, all articulating claims for the validity of the
expressive (E) dimension of the (academic) world. The second group includes fac-
tual expressions that build topoi of the specificity of scientific life, all articulating
claims for the validity of the cognitive (C) dimension of the (academic) world. The
third group includes discussions of il/legitimacy of specific social behaviors and
Science and ethics in the knowledge society 85
courses of events in the field of science, all articulating claims for the validity of the
regulative (R) dimension of the (academic) world. When it comes to the stage of
recognition, in turn, it is rhetorically rendered through combined arguments that
merge all the three types of VCs together. They jointly underline the respective
truthfulness, truth and rightness of the three world dimensions acknowledged in
empowerment, and reveal their mutual correlation, interdependence and harmony
in the thus appearing ‘integrated’ world of ‘human(e) science.’
4.1 
The rhetoric of empowerment in JPII’s letters to scholarly
communities: E dimension
In narrative terms (cf. Winslade and Monk 2000, 2009), the stage of empower-
ment involves a wide range of speech acts that realize its discourse from different
dialogic perspectives. In the sample of JPII’s correspondence researched here
these practices consist, generally, in (1) strengthening the interlocutors’ personal
identities, (2) isolating problematic issues for discussion and extending the view
of the situation with an aim to (3) create options for alternative (participatory)
standards of social interaction. The first type is verbalized by strategies of discur-
sive solidarity, responsible for constructing relations of mutual partnership, open-
ness, interdependence and respect. The second type follows rhetorical procedures
that detach problems from parties in order to build a solid empirical ground for
intersubjective connection. The third type, in turn, groups utterances that call the
Subjects for action, and entreat them to set unprecedented examples of broadly
‘ethical’ behavior. They all constitute, respectively, the E, C and R aspects of dia-
logic action in its empowerment mode.
When it comes to the E dimension of empowerment, rhetorical strategies on
this communicative plane collect expressions that rebuild the speakers’ ethical
status by emphasizing their full presence and inclusion in discourse. As examples
(1) and (2) below demonstrate, these expressions are represented by the author’s
numerous references to respect and esteem that he has for scientists. This positive
stance is rhetorically structured through phrases (bolded) in which the Pope ar-
ticulates his appraisal of (leading centres where culture is formed), interest in (It was
kind of you to inform me) and care for (good wishes for the success) his recipients:
(1)
It was kind of you to inform me of the Second Session of the International Seminar on
World Implications of a Nuclear Conflict. [EM 1982]
(2)
In offering good wishes for the success of this important Conference, I wish to reaffirm
that the Church looks to scientists and researchers with hope and trust. In this sense
Urszula Okulska
86
I renew the invitation which I addressed to Catholic intellectuals in my Encyclical Letter
Evangelium Vitae, and I extend it to all researchers of good will: may you “be present
and active in the leading centres where culture is formed, in schools and universities,
in places of scientific and technological research”… [WC 2002]
The Pope’s willingness to develop constructive relations with researchers at the
cross-cultural level of community relations is pronounced in his assuredness,
in example (2), that the Church looks to scientists and researchers with hope and
trust. The openness of this invitation to intellectuals of both Catholic and also
non-Catholic orientations is underlined in its extension to all researchers of good
will, who are encouraged to be present and active in all contexts where science is
made. The authenticity of this call can be confirmed in the author’s intertextual
reference to his previous initiatives of a similar type. They were undertaken, e.g.,
in the Encyclical Letter Evangelium Vitae, as well as on some other occasions
discussed in example (4) below, which may speak in favor of their continuation
in the Pope’s present discourse as well as of his ‘self-constancy’ in this kind of
linguistic behavior in general (on the relevance of self-constancy for the ethical
aim of human action, see esp. Ricoeur 1992a: 171–180).
However, as the discourse of the papal correspondence indicates, JPII does
not position himself, or the Catholic Church only, as main protagonists in the
dialogue on the ethical sphere of modern science. The Pope’s authorial stance is
frequently decentred in the letters by his acting on different ‘footings’ (cf. Goffman
1981), whereby the writer not only speaks about dangers of modern science and
technology on his own behalf as the Church leader, but also represents voices of
other (often weaker) parties who have so far been marginalized or completely
excluded in public discussions of such problems. This can be read, for instance,
in (3) below, where in reference to science-generated challenges of the modern
world, the author neutralizes his position by depicting some threats of ongoing
‘modernization,’ including materialism, consumerism and the pursuit of pleasure,
from the perspective of the peoples of Asia as well as the rest of the human family.
In this way the problems can additionally be seen in the eyes of the discourse
second and third parties, who thereby become overtly involved in the dialogue
as those more or less directly affected by the crossroads of the rapid technological
and scientific change.
(3)
Together with the rest of the human family, but in a manner which reflects their own
particular history and culture, the peoples of Asia are facing the many challenges cre-
ated by rapid technological and scientific change. At this important crossroads, your
seminar bears witness to the transcendent value of the human person and to the need
for an integral development which responds to spiritual and cultural aspirations as well
Science and ethics in the knowledge society 87
as material needs. If the rich Asian heritage of respect for this transcendent dimension is
integrated with scientific and economic development, then Asia will provide a much needed
example in a world which so often falls prey to materialism, consumerism and the
pursuit of pleasure. [TS 1987]
The same neutralizing rhetorical procedures are deployed also in example (4),
where the expression I have felt it my duty, underlining the Pope’s vocation or
institutional role (elsewhere defined as his pastoral mission and ministry), is fur-
ther complemented by JPII’s more general footing of a spokesman of common
people. The latter serves as a VC for the legitimacy of his voice in defense of man
and civilization as well as on behalf of the conscience of millions. The intention is
to return dignity to parties involuntarily subjected to technologically fostered
aggression, and give them their rightful place in the human world.
(4)
This is a disturbingly radical issue on which I have felt it my duty to speak forcefully in
defence of man and civilization. I have done so before international institutions such
as the United Nations Organization (2 December 1979) and UNESCO (2 June 1980),
during my apostolic journeys, especially at Hiroshima (25 February 1981) and Coventry
(30 May 1982), and in various addresses to national authorities and those in positions
of responsibility in the scientific community. I have also sent delegations composed
of members of the Papal Academy of Sciences to the capitals of some countries in pos-
session of nuclear weapons, to make known the results of a study on the catastrophic
effects of a nuclear conflict.
On all these occasions I spoke on behalf of the conscience of millions, and in keeping
with my ministry I called for a halt to the arms race, especially in nuclear weapons, so
as to prepare for real progress towards disarmament and peace. [EM 1982]
Similarly to example (2), the numerous references in this letter to anti-nuclear
initiatives that the Pope raised in exchange with diverse political and scholarly
bodies on previous occasions (I have done so before international institutions; dur-
ing my apostolic journeys; in various addresses to national authorities and those in
positions of responsibility in the scientific community; I have also sent delegations…)
once again emphasize the author’s own consistency in publicizing the issue of
‘dehumanized’ use of modern research. All such expressive articulations allow the
author to identify himself with other parties involved, include their perspectives
in discourse, and position both himself and his recipients as partners who equally
participate in their communal shares. This is how the discourse of the empowering
stage of JPII’s epistolary dialogue lays the rhetorical claim for the validity of the
parties’ mutual connection, interdependence, trust and Subjectivity.
Urszula Okulska
88
4.2 
The rhetoric of empowerment in JPII’s letters to scholarly
communities: C dimension
On its C plane, the discourse of empowerment thematizes issues that are problem-
atic at the level of the parties’ intersubjective and intrasubjective relations. Such
rhetoric adds the dialogic action its substantial character, which further subjecti-
fies partners within and beyond the field of science by externalizing barriers that
cut across their mutual contacts. In this way the participants can take control
of the problems that disrupt their relations by examining them from outside as
objects. The latter can be manipulated, changed, improved or eliminated com-
pletely to make the interpersonal connections that scholarly practice establishes
complementarily balanced and synergistically cooperative in the world. This is
possible when the disquieting issues under deliberation are explicitly isolated,
named and shown in their agentive mode as placing direct constraints on social
actors. Encroaching upon the actors’ personal freedom, these effects work to-
wards the people’s discursive passivity and exclusion, which in turn downgrade
and marginalize them ethically. The rhetorical mapping of these effects on both
scientists and science users is a moment in dialogue when its C dimension meets
the formerly mentioned E dimension. The discursive consolidation of these two
world aspects enables all the parties involved to (re)gain their Personhood, and
approach subjective integrity.
Some rhetorical signals of problem construction in the texts studied are already
sent by the author of the correspondence to scientists in the empowerment moves
of his letters presented in examples (3–4) above. In the Tokyo Seminar letter (3),
these issues (underlined) are highlighted in the implicit phrases the many chal-
lenges; rapid technological and scientific change; this important crossroads, which
are more overtly specified in the formulation materialism, consumerism and the
pursuit of pleasure. In the Erice Meeting letter (4), the problems are summed up
in the general label a disturbingly radical issue, which is further explored under
its hyponims nuclear weapons, the catastrophic effects of a nuclear conflict or the
arms race. The third of the letters, in turn, to the Warsaw Conference (5 below),
externalizes problems of the modern abuse of biomedical and pharmaceutical re-
search, alienating both scientists and patients from the human world, in indexicals
of the type subject, conflict of interest, question, issue or ethical problems. In subse-
quent paragraphs they find their further thematic developments (bolded italics),
which make the discourse of the C empowerment largely problem-oriented (the
italicized sections) and negative (underlined italics). Such discourse produces the
VC for the truth of the propositions raised in the content of the topics argued, and
is meant to put this claim forward for the interlocutors’ serious consideration at
Science and ethics in the knowledge society 89
this dialogic stage. The agentive status of the problems discussed is emphasized in
active forms of related verb phrases, such as affects, has emerged, facing, happens,
prompt, can arise, etc. They indicate to the readers the scale to which the problems
exposed drive their professional activities, depriving the parties of the authorship
of their own moves, and thereby infringing on their subjective freedom.
(5)
The subject of the Conference [i.e., “Conflict of Interest and its Significance in Science and
Medicine”] is well worth bringing to the attention of society as a whole. In fact, this is a
question which affects not just the programming and development of medical research
and science, but the well-being of peoples and the very dignity and prestige of scientific
learning itself. In recent times the issue has emerged as one of the most serious ethical
problems facing the international community.
(…)
While it is certainly proper for a firm in the field of biomedical or pharmaceutical re-
search to seek an appropriate return on investment, it sometimes happens that overriding
financial interests prompt decisions and products which are contrary to truly human
values and to the demands of justice, demands which cannot be separated from the very
aim of research. As a result, a conflict can arise between economic interests on the one
hand and, on the other, medicine and health-care. (…)
In other words, there is a risk that science-based businesses and health care structures can
be set up not in order to provide the best possible care for people in accordance with their
human dignity, but in order to maximize profits and increase business, with a predictable
lowering in the quality of service for those unable to pay.
(…)
The list of such conflicts will undoubtedly expand, if a utilitarian approach is allowed
to prevail over the genuine quest for knowledge. This is what happens for example when
the media, often financed by the same business interests, provoke exaggerated expecta-
tions and spawn a kind of pharmacological consumerism. At the same time they tend to
pass over in silence those means of protecting health which require people to act responsibly
and with self-discipline.
(…)
In a broader view, the pre-eminence of the profit motive in conducting scientific research
ultimately means that science is deprived of its epistemological character, according to
which its primary goal is discovery of the truth. The risk is that when research takes a
utilitarian turn, its speculative dimension, which is the inner dynamic of man’s intellectual
journey, will be diminished or stifled. [WC 2002]
The negative influence of the issues examined here on the parties’ lives, para-
phrased broadly in the last section of (5) as ‘degradation of scientific practice,’ is
emphasized in this example especially in such formulations as the pre-eminence of
Urszula Okulska
90
the profit motive in conducting scientific research [problem/cause] ultimately means
that science is deprived of its epistemological character [effect] or when research
takes a utilitarian turn [problem/cause], its speculative dimension, which is the
inner dynamic of man’s intellectual journey, will be diminished or stifled [effect].
Interestingly, the qualification as ‘problem’ of the condition of modern science
metonymically bares also on the qualification as its ‘effect’ of the condition of hu-
man identity in its professional disclosure. The discursive projection of the former,
reconstructed in the C dimension of empowerment, onto the latter, reconstructed
in the E dimension of empowerment, is a moment when the C and E aspects of
dialogic action meet to consolidate the two world spheres. As part of human
reality that the interlocutors (start to) share in intersubjective experience, this
newly (re)constructed world acquires for them new meaning and significance. It
namely represents what concerns the parties directly, what they can see in a wide
spectrum, what they feel responsible for, and what they can themselves build and
direct, weighing all ensuing consequences. Rhetorically speaking, such discourse
of combined C-E empowerment, aside making the VC for the truth of a broader
the view of the situation investigated, opens up for the participants options for
choice (cf. esp. Winslade and Monk 2000, 2008) which they can dialogically pur-
sue as alternative, constructive, paths in their approach to scientific standards.
All this gives the floor to the third, R, dimension of empowerment, which com-
municatively validates the normative (or regulative) sphere of the human world.
4.3 
The rhetoric of empowerment in JPII’s letters to scholarly
communities: R dimension
The extended narrative space that the combined C-E dimensions of dialogic ac-
tion open in its empowerment phase provides room for the author’s rhetorical
analysis of practical options that emerge in his texts as alternatives to the alienat-
ing discourse patterns pervading consumption-infiltrated science. Considering
these options as cooperative discourse behaviors that people in the academy may
undertake and follow, points to the Power potential that researchers, as all other
human Subjects, are equipped with, and that they can run to make their discipli-
nary practice, together with outcomes of their professional endeavor, inclusive for
others. By arguing in favor of such a relational stance in the modern academy, JPII
makes the VC for the rightness of the participatory approach in this field as the
only way in which science can remain a ‘worldly’ domain, in the service of man
and human civilization. The outward connotations that this rhetoric constructs in
the letters studied of both the condition of the social order under scrutiny as well
as its ethical status reveal the dialectic between the R dimension of dialogue and
Science and ethics in the knowledge society 91
its two remaining C and E spheres respectively. This, in turn, provides additional
communicative space for the harmonization of these three action modalities and
for the integration of the human condition in the realm of science on the solid
ground of the emerging public world.
As the three letters chosen for the present research indicate, the rhetoric of
the R empowerment in JPII’s correspondence heavily relies on the use of deontic
modality. In Habermasian terms (1984: 301), its purpose is to claim the validity
of ‘normatively authorized’ imperatives, whose conditions of sanction spring not
from outside (i.e., from the speaker’s contingent will), as in arbitrarily driven
‘simple’ (pure) imperatives, but from the speech act itself. In this last case, the
potential for sanctions argued is grounded either in commonly established facts
(events) or rules (law), which provide reasons for conventional restrictions that
register corresponding VCs. As Habermas (1984) has it, such claims:
can be rejected only by way of criticism and can be defended against a criticism only by
refuting it. One who opposes directions is referred to existing [geltende] regulations and
not to the mere fact of penalties that can be expected if they are not followed. And one
who doubts the validity of the underlying norms has to give reasons – whether against the
legality of the regulations – that is, against the lawfulness of its social force [Geltung] – or
against the legitimacy of the regulation – that is, against its claim to be right or justified
in a moral‑practical sense. (Habermas 1984: 301)
This is how, according to Habermas, all kinds of VCs (as opposed to instrumental
‘power claims’), are ‘internally’ linked to reasons and grounds, and in this sense
the conditions for their acceptability lie in the illocutionary meaning of the speech
act itself. What follows is that R claims that can secure the validity of norms un-
derlying them fulfil, or ‘redeem,’ arguments that they themselves carry, and for this
reason “they do not need to be completed by additional conditions of sanction”
(1984: 301–302). In the case when an offer of an imperative speech act combines
the validity of norms underlying it, the claim that the conditions for its validity
are satisfied, and the redemption (or grounding) of the VC raised, it produces a
warranty for the hearer of convincing reasons that will be able, if necessary, to
challenge his/her criticism of the VC issued. In this way, surface textual impera-
tives that base their illocutionary role on VCs, rather than on typical power claims,
turn the agonistic force of empirical sanctions that the latter externally produce
into the cooperative Power of accepting a speaker’s guarantee for the rational sav-
ing of claims to validity. As a result, what the interlocutors have thereby at their
disposal is choice that they are free to (optionally) make (cf. Habermas 1984: 296,
299; Ricoeur 1992: 89–93; Grillo 2005b: 24–37, 2005c: 231, 234), instead of pres-
sure that is imposed on them from outside.
Urszula Okulska
92
When it comes to the R claims in JPII’s correspondence to scientists, they are
communicated in the letters studied through modal expressions that uncover in-
clusive courses of scientific practice to which researchers are invited. For instance,
as the letter to the Erice Meeting demonstrates in (6) below, the options for the
academics to adopt cooperative norms of acting are described in expressions
that emphasize new qualities of the scientists’ institutional duties, responsibili-
ties, positions and skills: Scientists … have a particular role to play; their special
responsibility; You, the participants, are in a better position than others to gauge
the apocalyptic effects of a nuclear war; You can more easily ascertain that the logic
of nuclear dissuasion cannot be considered a final goal or an appropriate and
secure means for safeguarding international peace; so that … you may foster a
culture … based on the perennial values of truth and love. The regulatory character
of these qualities is signalled in the wide range of modalized syntactic formulae,
including (infinite) verb phrases, nominals, prepositional phrases, that and ‘pur-
pose’ clauses (in bold).
(6)
Scientists and people involved in the technological application of scientific discover-
ies have a particular role to play in this matter. In view of their special responsibility
I make bold to address this message to all the illustrious personalities participating in
the seminar.
You, the participants, are in a better position than others to gauge the apocalyptic
effects of a nuclear war: in particular, the unheard of sufferings and the tremendous de-
struction of human lives and works of civilization. You can more easily ascertain that the
logic of nuclear dissuasion cannot be considered a final goal or an appropriate and
secure means for safeguarding international peace.
(…)
I make a heartfelt appeal to you scientists, to your commitment, your prestige, your
conscience, so that by throwing light on the senseless and catastrophic effects of war
you may foster a culture – the only culture worthy of man – based on the perennial
values of truth and love. [EM 1982]
This list of linguistic units is further extended by more complex R speech acts,
including appeals, as in the last paragraph of (6): I make a heartfelt appeal to you
scientists, as well as by more or less direct imperatives of the type must be, they
should or if clauses. The latter appear especially in the empowerment of the letter
to the Warsaw Conference, excerpted in (7) below (bolded), and in that of the
letter to the Tokyo Symposium, illustrated from the perspective of the C dimen-
sion in (3) above (italicized). This last case shows an interesting example where
the conditional if … then, while validating oriental discourse practices of respect
Science and ethics in the knowledge society 93
in the scientific domain, normalizes this element of Asian identity in the univer-
sal repertoire of ‘humane behaviour.’ It thereby shows another point of contact
between the R and E dimensions of the integrating academic world.
Interestingly, as regards inherent linguistic qualities of the normative proposi-
tions that R claims establish, the non-directive manner in which these regulations
are argued is confirmed by the ‘optative’ mood (cf. Candlin and Maley 1997: 207)
that their modals tend to acquire in the texture of the empowerment move. This
can be observed, for instance, in the rhetoric of the letter to the Warsaw Confer-
ence (7), where the participants’ freedom in their choice of communicative strate-
gies in professional life is accentuated through some other devices (underlined)
than conditional clauses mentioned above.
(7)
For science to retain its true independence and for researchers to retain their freedom,
ethical values must be brought to the fore. To subject everything to profit involves a real
loss of freedom for the scientist. And those who would uphold scientific freedom by appealing
to a “values-free science” prepare the way for the supremacy of economic interests.
For scientific research in the biomedical field to be restored to its full dignity, research-
ers themselves must be fully engaged. It is primarily up to them to guard jealously and,
if necessary, to reclaim the essential meaning of that mastery and dominion over the
visible world… As I wrote in my first Encyclical Letter Redemptor Hominis, this meaning
“consists in the priority of ethics over technology, in the primacy of the person over things,
and in the superiority of spirit over matter” (No. 16).
Public authorities too, as guardians of the common good, have a role to play in ensuring that
research is directed to the good of people and of society, and in tempering and reconciling
the pressures of divergent interests. By issuing guidelines and by allocating public funds in
accordance with the principles of subsidiarity, they should actively support those fields of
research not sponsored by private interests. They should be prepared to prevent research
which harms human life and dignity or which ignores the needs of the world’s poorest peoples,
who are generally less well equipped for scientific research. [WC 2002]
As the example shows, the wider spectrum of routes that the readers may follow in
their dialogic interaction with others on the scholarly plane is rhetorically struc-
tured in the strong emphasis that the text puts on the dependence of the course(s)
of scientific life on researchers’ sovereign decisions. It can be read especially in the
sentence: It is primarily up to them to guard jealously and, if necessary, to reclaim
the essential meaning of that mastery and dominion over the visible world …. The
warranty of this particular claim, in parallel to that of the remaining R claims in both
(6) and (7), stems from the corresponding C sections of empowerment (italicized),
which support the former as backing. They provide a rational motivation for the
recipients to accept the authorial guarantee for the security of the substantial VCs
Urszula Okulska
94
offered. The mutual synergy of the R and C dimensions of empowerment observed
here is another point where the two world domains evidently integrate.
4.4 
The rhetoric of recognition in JPII’s letters to scholarly
communities: integrated E-C-R dimensions
From the narrative perspective, the recognition stage of dialogic action is the
momentum of the coming together of the three world dimensions (cf. Winslade
and Monk 2000: esp. 181–226). Its rhetoric can be identified in the orchestra-
tion and merger of the letters’ E, C and R claims, their general orientation to the
future, positive and inclusive style, as well as in the speakers’ full communicative
agency. From the relational point of view, in this phase of dialogue the interlocu-
tors reach intersubjective understanding about the issues discussed, which fur-
ther translates into their truly subjective presence in discourse as Persons. They
regain control over their matters, take rational decisions on the future course of
their affairs, and by the same token transform their agonistic cultural systems
into participatory ones, where conflict and social isolation are substituted for
communal solidarity and dialogic cooperation (esp. Cloke 2001, Bush and Folger
2005, Umbreit 2006, etc.).
As a level that is rarely attained in everyday life, recognition in JPII’s corre-
spondence to scientists has been found only in two of the three letters studied.
It is represented in textual confirmations of both relational initiatives and their
lasting effects that the researchers, respectively, undertake and establish towards
inclusive modes of (spoken) behavior in their professional disciplines. The quali-
tative novelty of these actualizations allows to classify them as ‘unique outcomes’
(Winslade and Monk 2000: 153ff.), which in unchaining old discriminatory habits
transform the latter into new dialogic creativity. The genuine human world, which
in consequence fully appears through the accompanying integration of all its dis-
course dimensions, can be traced in the letters to the Tokyo Symposium (8) and to
the Warsaw Conference (9). The first recognizes the dialogic value of the ongoing
event, dedicated to the revival of humane values in science and technology, as an
empirical sign of its participants’ outward willingness to introduce qualitative
change to these disciplines. The second, in turn, recognizes the contribution of
the field of medicine to the growth of human civilization from a broader temporal,
social and axiological perspective.
(8)
This is an event of great significance [C/R] for all those [E] who seek a development
which truly serves humanity by promoting ethical and spiritual values [R] as well as
economic and scientific progress [C/R]. [TS 1987]
Science and ethics in the knowledge society 95
(9)
It is in virtue of this broad vision [C] of commitment to the truth and the common
good [C/R] that medical research and learning have written pages of genuine advance-
ment [R/C], deserving of humanity’s recognition and gratitude [R/E]. [WC 2002]
The combined references in these utterances to the joint C, E and R aspects of
dialogue uncover the process of full ‘humanization’ of academic discourse within
the topical range discussed.
More specifically, as example (8) implies, the resultant consolidation of the
world of science runs through bridging its lower practices, consumption and
production (economic and scientific progress), with the highest faculty of human
action (ethical and spiritual values). Additionally, in confirming the relevance
and participatory character of the initiative undertaken (an event of great signifi-
cance [C/R]), the passage simultaneously emphasizes the subjective presence in
discourse of its participants (all those [E]). By making the effort to apply ethical
norms (seek a development which truly serves humanity by promoting ethical and
spiritual values [R]) to their professional activities (economic and scientific progress
[C/R]), the parties are able to establish the human world in the scientific domain.
As far as example (9) is concerned, it documents a stage at which the medical
community has realized the richness of knowledge (this broad vision [C]) that
they have accumulated through the pursuit of truth and shared values in their
discipline (commitment to the truth and the common good [C/R]). The always de-
sired qualitative growth of human culture that this pursuit has factually brought
(medical research and learning have written pages of genuine advancement [R/C])
is what can motivate the researchers to continue following this course, and to
shape their identities along its direction (deserving of humanity’s recognition and
gratitude [R/E]). The parties’ fully agentive roles in all the practices signaled in
both (8) and (9) are structured especially by the active verbs seek, serves (8), have
and written (9), as well as by the nominalizations development, progress (8), com-
mitment, research, learning, advancement and recognition (9). Building positive
and future-oriented rhetoric of this discourse, they mediate the Subjects’ ethical
identification with and their participatory belonging to the dialogic world of ‘in-
tegrated science,’ which they thereby enact.
5. Conclusions
The cross-cultural correspondence investigated in this project shows the devel-
opment of contemporary science from a different perspective than the one often
promoted by profit-oriented and individualist culture of the modern age. By com-
pleting the missing component of dialogic action in the scientific order, the texts
Urszula Okulska
96
indicate how this domain can be informed ethically, and how it can evolve towards
a more cooperative and inclusive social enterprise. As the research material shows,
this transformation takes place whenever scholarly practice, irrespective of its dis-
ciplinary divisions, takes the form of genuine dialogue. It operates at different levels
of subjective participation in human affairs reflected in the authentic presence of
interacting parties in academic discourse. The latter has been tested in the above
analysis through rhetorically structured validity claims, whose tripartite distribu-
tion in the texts’ argumentative structure allows to trace the simultaneous workings
in it of expressive, cognitive and regulative dimensions of the human world. The
rhetorical coordination of these dimensions in academic style results in the overall
integration of the human condition in scholarly life, and what follows, in the appear-
ance of the latter as an integral part of the larger public realm. The elimination from
this sphere research-generated exclusionary practices, exemplified in this study by
Pope John Paul II’s rhetorical use of dialogic genres of empowerment and recogni-
tion in exchange with scholars, is what makes the field of science act in the service
of both man and his environment. However, as the empirical sample demonstrates,
the actualization of such relational practice remains a big challenge for the modern
academy, which in many of its recent decisions continues posing a threat to hu-
man civilization. Yet, the unique outcomes that the letters argue for the modern
dialogue-mediated research promise its great contribution to the prospective revival
of ‘ethical science,’ whose harmonized rhetorical and discursive tools can ground it
in the solid – qualitative – foundations of the human world.
References
Arendt, H. 1972. Crises of the Republic. San Diego – New York – London: A Harvest
Book – Hartcourt Brace & Company.
Arendt, H. 1998. The Human Condition. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Arendt, H. 2003. Responsibility and Judgment. New York: Schocken Books.
Bourdieu, P. 1992. Language and Symbolic Power. Cambridge: Polity Press.
Bush, R. A. B. and J. P. Folger. 2005. The Promise of Mediation. The Transformative
Approach to Conflict. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.
Candlin, Ch. N. and Y. Maley. 1997. “Intertextuality and interdiscursivity in the
discourse of alternative dispute resolution.” In B.-L. Gunnarsson:, P. Linell and
B. Nordberg (eds.) The Construction of Professional Discourse. London and New
York: Longman, 201–222.
Chilton, P. 2004. Analysing Political Discourse. Theory and Practice. London and
New York: Routledge.
Science and ethics in the knowledge society 97
Chouliaraki, L. and N. Fairclough. 2005. Discourse in Late Modernity. Rethinking
Critical Discourse Analysis. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Clark, H. H. 1996. Using Language. Cambridge: CUP.
Cloke, K. 2001. Mediating Dangerously. The Frontiers of Conflict Resolution. San
Francisco: Jossey-Bass.
Duffy, M. 2009. Paul Ricoeur’s Pedagogy of Pardon. A Narrative Theory of Memory
and Forgetting. London: Continuum.
Fairclough, N. 1989. Language and Power. London and New York: Longman.
Fairclough, N. 1992. Discourse and Social Change. Cambridge: Polity.
Fairclough, N. 1999. Critical Discourse Analysis. The Critical Study of Language.
London and New York: Longman.
Fairclough, N. 2003. Analysing Discourse. Textual Analysis for Social Research.
London and New York: Routledge.
Feder Kittay, E. 2014. “The completion of care – with implications for a duty to
receive care graciously”. In A. M. González and C. Iffland (eds.) Care Professions
and Globalization. Theoretical and Practical Perspectives. New York: Palgrave
Macmillan, 33–42.
Giddens, A. 1993. The Consequences of Modernity. Cambridge: Polity Press.
Giddens, A. 1994. Modernity and Self-Identity. Self and Society in the Late Modern
Age. Cambridge: Polity Press.
Gmurzyńska, E. 2009. “Rodzaje mediacji” [“Types of mediation”]. In E. Gmurzyńska
and R. Morek (eds.) Mediacje. Teoria i praktyka [Mediations. Theory and Prac-
tice]. Warszawa: Wolters Kluwer, 109–125.
Goffman, E. 1981. Forms of Talk. Oxford: Blackwell.
Gold, L. 1993. “Influencing unconscious influences: The healing dimension of
mediation.” Mediation Quarterly 11 (1), 55–66.
Graf, E.-M. and J. Pawelczyk. 2014. “The interactional accomplishment of feel-
ings-talk in psychotherapy and executive coaching: Same format, different
functions?.” In E.-M. Graff, M. Sator and T. Spranz-Fogassy (eds.) Discourses
of Helping Professions. Amsterdam – Philadelphia: John Benjamins, 59–89.
Greatbatch, D. and R. Dingwall. 1999. “Professional neutralism in family media-
tion.” In S. Sarangi and C. Roberts (eds.) Talk, Work and Institutional Order.
Discourse in Medical, Mediation and Management Settings. Berlin – New York:
Mouton de Gruyter, 271–292.
Grillo, E. 2005a. “Foreword.” In E. Grillo (ed.) Power without Domination. Dialogism
and the Empowering Property of Communication. Amsterdam – Philadelphia:
John Benjamins, vii–xvii.
Urszula Okulska
98
Grillo, E. 2005b. “Two dogmas of discourse analysis.” In E. Grillo (ed.) Power with-
out Domination. Dialogism and the Empowering Property of Communication.
Amsterdam – Philadelphia: John Benjamins, 3–41.
Grillo, E. 2005c. “Conclusion.” In E. Grillo (ed.) Power without Domination.
Dialogism and the Empowering Property of Communication. Amsterdam –
Philadelphia: John Benjamins, 223–237.
Grillo, E. (ed.) 2005. Power without Domination. Dialogism and the Empowering
Property of Communication. Amsterdam – Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Habermas, J. 1984. The Theory of Communicative Action. Vol. 1. Reason and the
Rationalization of Society. Boston: Beacon Press.
Ingarden, R. 2009. Książeczka o człowieku [A Book on Man]. Kraków: Wydaw-
nictwo Literackie.
Kovach, K. K. 2004. Mediation. Principles and Practice. St. Paul, MN: West.
Muntigl, P. 2004. Narrative Counselling. Social and Linguistic Processes of Change.
Amsterdam – Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Muntigl, P., N. Knight and A. Watkins. 2014. “Empathic practices in client-centred
psychotherapies: Displaying understanding and affiliation with clients.” In E.-M.
Graff, M. Sator and T. Spranz-Fogassy (eds.) Discourses of Helping Professions.
Amsterdam – Philadelphia: John Benjamins, 33–57.
Okulska, U. (forthcoming). Dialogue as Linguistic Peace-Building. Foundations of
the Integrative Theory of Discourse. Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Okulska, U. and P. Cap (eds.) 2010. Perspectives in Politics and Discourse. Am-
sterdam – Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Pawelczyk, J. 2011. Talk as Therapy. Psychotherapy in a Linguistic Perspective.
Boston – Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Perelman, C. and L. Olbrechts-Tyteca. 1969. The New Rhetoric: A Treatise on
Argumentation. Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press.
Ricoeur, P. 1992a. Oneself as Another. Chicago and London: University of Chicago
Press.
Ricoeur, P. 1992b. Filozofia Osoby [Philosophy of Person]. Kraków: Wydawnictwo
Naukowe PAT.
Rogers, C. R. 1961. On Becoming a Person. A Therapist’s View of Psychotherapy.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company.
Rogers, C. R. 2002. O stawaniu się osobą. Poglądy terapeuty na psychoterapię [On
Becoming a Person. A Therapist’s View of Psychotherapy]. Poznań: REBIS.
Rycielski, P. and P. O. Żylicz. 1997. “O roli facylitatora w rozwiązywaniu spo-
rów w małych grupach” [“On the role of a facilitator in conflict resolution in
small groups”]. In J. Reykowski (ed.) Konflikt i porozumienie. Psychologiczne
Science and ethics in the knowledge society 99
podstawy demokracji deliberatywnej [Conflict and Settlement. Psychological
Foundations of Deliberative Democracy]. Warszawa: Academica, 77–92.
Sharaby, R. 2013. “Bridge between absorbing and absorber: Ethiopian mediators
in the Isreali Public Service.” International Journal of Sociology and Anthropol-
ogy 5 (1), 1–11.
Skarżyńska, K., U. Jakubowska and J. Wasilewski (eds.) 2007. Konflikty między-
grupowe. Przejawy, źródła i metody rozwiązywania. Warszawa: Academica.
Tanner, D. 1998. The Argument Culture. Moving from Debate to Dialogue. New York:
Random House.
Toulmin, S. 1958. The Uses of Argument. Cambridge: CUP.
Toulmin, S. 1972. Human Understanding. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Umbreit, M. 1997. “Humanistic mediation: A transformative journey of peace-
making.” Mediation Quarterly 14 (3), 201–213.
Umbreit, M. 2006. Mediating Interpersonal Conflicts. A Pathway to Peace. Eugene,
OR: Wipf & Stock Publishers.
van Dijk, T. A. 1998. Ideology. A Multidisciplinary Approach. London: SAGE.
Waszkiewicz, P. 2009. “Zasady mediacji” [Principles of mediation”]. In E. Gmu-
rzyńska and R. Morek (eds.) Mediacje. Teoria i praktyka [Mediations. Theory
and Practice]. Warszawa: Wolters Kluwer, 91–105.
Węgrzecki, A. 2014. Wokół filozofii spotkania [Around Philosophy of Encounter].
Kraków: WAM.
Winslade, J. and G. Monk. 2000. Narrative Mediation. A New Approach to Conflict
Resolution. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.
Winslade, J. and G. Monk. 2008. Practicing Narrative Mediation. Loosening the
Grip of Conflict. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.
Wodak, R. 1996. Disorders of Discourse. London and New York: Longman.
Wodak, R. and P. Chilton (eds.) 2005. A New Agenda in (Critical) Discourse Analy-
sis. Theory, Methodology and Interdisciplinarity. Amsterdam – Philadelphia:
John Benjamins.
Izabela Wagner
University of Warsaw
Sociology of excellence(s) in the
knowledge society
Abstract: The author claims that ‘excellence’ is a socially constructed, discursive phenom-
enon. The analysis unveils a complex system of reward attribution, the importance of signifi-
cant others, and institutional frames that determine this process. Such sociological constraints
are also reflected in persuasive practices through which scholarly excellence is argued in
academic discourse.
1. Introduction
The chapter traces a broad sociological picture that permits to deepen understand-
ing of rhetoric as applied to and within the discussion of science issues. In the
knowledge society, in which science occupies such a prominent place, the overt
and covert processes of persuasion shape our visions of scientists: who they are,
who they should be. The main concept considered in this chapter is excellence: a
quality requested from scholars who aim to become top scientists. Although the
analysis is conducted mainly from the sociological perspective, it addresses also
important rhetorical issues. It is concerned with reconstructing modern realiza-
tions of rhetorical genus demonstrativum, i.e., evaluation practices: praising, blam-
ing, applying old and creating new standards of evaluation. The term excellence
evokes also the rhetorical concept of ethos, considered in relation with authorship
of scientific texts.
2. 
Excellence and scientific work: An ‘old’ subject
of reflection
“At any given time in a particular society the idea of what constitutes excellence
tends to be limited − but the conception changes as we move from one society to
another or one century to another” (Gardner 1961: 130). This sentence written by
Gardner (1961) in his book entitled Excellence − Can We Be Equal and Excellent
too? seems to be an appropriate introduction to a sociological discussion about
excellence in the knowledge society. A dynamic phenomenon of ‘excellence’ finds
in every society and every professional or social group a different expression,
Izabela Wagner
102
and sometimes strongly contrasts with the notion, which is common today (and
widespread in contemporary society), that behind the concept of excellence there
has to exist an established list of fixed values which pave the way to the top of
professional careers.
Probably, as mentioned by Gardner, a dynamic and relative character of this
concept translates into problems one encounters when trying to construct a defi-
nition of excellence. Nevertheless, despite difficulty, the phenomena of excellence
have been an attractive subject, for over half of a century, for numerous sociolo-
gists, especially those investigating careers of scientists (as well as other profes-
sionals). In this text, I will use as a starting point the works of two authors who set
grounds for any discussion about excellence in the second half of the 20th
century:
Gardner (quoted above) and Merton. The work of the latter seems to be frequently
employed in the analysis of the phenomenon of excellence in the contemporary
careers of scientists. Setting aside the fact that their analyses of excellence as a
social problem differ, it is worth noting that both Gardner and Merton described
difficulties they encountered during elaboration of the definition of excellence.
In 1960 Merton, analyzing precisely this interesting element of scientific work,
mentioned:
Many of us are persuaded that we know what we mean by excellence and would prefer
not to be asked to explain. We act as though we believe that close inspection of the idea
of excellence will cause it to dissolve into nothing, much as the idea of simultaneity of
two events some distance apart come to nothing under the penetrating eye of a wise
physicist. (Merton 1973: 422–423)
Gardner (1961) perceived it in a different way:
Definitions of excellence tend to be most narrow at the point where we are selecting
individuals, or testing them, or training them. In the course of daily life, mature people
recognize many varieties of excellence in one another. But when we are selecting, testing
or training we arbitrarily narrow the rang. The reasons for doing so are practical ones.
Narrowing the grounds for selection is one way of making the selection process manage-
able. To the extent that we admit a great variety of kinds of excellence we make the task
of testing virtually impossible? (Gardner 1961: 128–129)
Both features of the phenomenon in question escape definition because of its
dynamism, strong relation to the context of practices (as part of evaluation of
human activity) and plurality of its forms and expressions. Merton found a kind of
solution when he bound the term of excellence with recognition, and thus provided
a useful analysis of the way of employing both concepts. In the case of scientific
careers, he proposed two meanings of the term recognition that organized his
reflection about excellence:
Sociology of excellence(s) in the knowledge society 103
the instrumental meaning directs our attention to the detecting of potentials for excellence
of achievement and to the providing of opportunities such that these potentials more
often become realities than they otherwise would. The honorific meaning directs our
attention to the signalizing and rewarding of demonstrated excellence. (Merton [1960]
1973: 422, emphasis mine)
This observation1
made by Merton is important; however, it applies mainly to two
points framing scientific careers. The first point − the instrumental meaning that
indicates looking for a potential function occurs mainly at the beginning of a ca-
reer. The second − the honorific meaning which concerns mainly people who have
already achieved something – remains a post-fact evaluation. From a sociological
point of view, though, the most interesting it is to investigate the process in action,
in other words, to respond to the question: how is excellence being produced? Cer-
tainly, producing excellence is a long process which takes place at each stage of a
scientific career. This is why it is worthwhile to raise the question about the dynamics
of the process of excellence construction in relation to the said career stages.
Before discussing elements of the answer that have emerged from my own
study, I will shortly examine the most important pieces of existing literature that
reflect on the specificity of scientific careers.
At Columbia University, Robert Merton created around himself an effervescent
team of researchers who investigated specificity of work and careers of scientists. The
team consisted of, among others, Joseph and Stephen Cole and Harriet Zuckerman,
who focused on such problems as professional stratification, productivity, systems
of gratifications, as well as the impact of gender or religion on careers (Merton 1973;
Cole and Cole 1967; Cole and Zuckerman 1984). Their analyses focused principally
on the aspect of talent detection and the creation of specific work conditions in order
to preserve the potential of future elite-scientists. This approach brings to us the
perception of the career as an individual construction and the excellence production
as an individual achievement − for scientists working with Mertonian approach, ex-
cellence is not a collective product, constructed as an effect of teamwork. According
to this paradigm, any collective aspect of the concept develops in the relationship
between givers and takers of the notion of excellence.
The construction of excellence remains more than a collective process − it
is a notion of class transmission and power of cultural inheritance, as was the
1	 It is important also to mention here that Merton attracted the attention to the value of
act of recognition not only for receiver but also and foremost for a giver the attribution
of excellent: “Honorific recognition presumably honors givers as well as receivers. It
expresses and demonstrates the donor’s soundness of values; in this definite sense, it
is more blessed to give honor than to receive it” (Merton 1973: 422).
Izabela Wagner
104
main focus of the reflection brought forth in different intellectual environment,
in France at the end of the 1960s. Bourdieu analyzed processes of elite repro-
duction in academia, following the first studies on cultural reproduction con-
ducted in collaboration with Passeron (Bourdieu and Passeron 1979). From this
perspective, not only significant others, but also class origin determines access
to the elite circle, thanks to which, according to studies, one can be perceived
as ‘excellent’ (Bourdieu 1966). This deterministic approach, however, reduces a
complex process of becoming excellent to the class origin, cultural background
(familial environment) and institutional belonging (for example, the system of
grandes écoles for scientists). Despite large divergences in theoretical approaches,
all the above-mentioned studies concerning scientists, academia and knowledge
acquisition have one important thing in common. They were principally based
on quantitative methods (statistical survey questionnaires), and only a small part
of the data was provided through interviews (Zuckerman 1977).
Another perspective, more focused on subjective factors in scientific careers,
was employed by another group of researchers from the so-called Chicago So-
ciological Tradition (Chapoulie 2001). Being a part of an intellectual tradition
specialized in the study of professions and occupations (Hughes was one of the key
sociologist in this intellectual circle), the sociologists focused on other aspects of
careers, such as professional mythology (Becker et al. 1961). Their important con-
tribution consists of analyses of ambition and the ‘discovery’ of the comparative
failure phenomenon (Glaser 1964a and 1964b; continued by Hermanowicz 1999).
Other interesting work was pursued by sociologists who used the insiders’
perspective on scientific careers and in an analysis of the processes of failure ac-
ceptance (Traweek 1988; Delamont and Atkinson 2001; Hermanowicz 1999). Both
phenomena, i.e., comparative failure and acceptance of failure – even if this seems
contrary to what we expect from such thing as excellence and a successful career
of a scientist − constitute, in the light of my studies, an indispensable element
of a scientific career and a crucial factor in the excellence construction, as I will
show later. This is also present in the discussion about the idea of measurement
(or testing) of excellence:
Whatever our position on current methods of trying to detect qualities of excellence
as early as possible we are driven back to the reasons for wanting to detect qualities of
excellence at all. Why not wait until quality has become performance; capacity, actuality?
(Merton 1974: 423)
In my opinion, a much more advanced reflection on assessing excellence is pro-
vided by Gardner:
Sociology of excellence(s) in the knowledge society 105
[…] There is a way of measuring excellence that involves comparison between people −
some are musical geniuses and some are not; and there is another that involves compari-
son between myself at my best and myself at my worst. It is this latter comparison which
enables me to assert that I am being true to the best that is in me − or forces me to confess
that I am not.2
Definition of excellence tends to be most narrow at the point where we are
selecting individuals, or testing them, or training them. In the course of daily life, mature
people recognize many varieties of excellence in one another. But when we are selecting,
testing or training we arbitrarily narrow the range. The reasons for doing so are practical
ones. Narrowing the grounds for selection is one way of making the selection process
manageable. To the extent that we admit a great variety of kinds of excellence we make
the task of testing virtually impossible. (Gardner 1961: 128–129)
We can conclude that all types of assessment of excellence provided by our insti-
tutions from the 1960s until today confirm Gardner’s doubts about limitations
of such exercises.
Finally, in order to complete the presentation of the literature that we need
to take into account in the analysis of the phenomenon of excellence, in the first
words of the introduction, Gardner emphasizes its diversity:
There are many varieties of excellence. This is one of those absurdly obvious truths of
which we must continually remind ourselves. (…) In the intellectual field alone there
are many kinds of excellence. There is the kind of intellectual activity that leads to a new
theory, and the kind that leads to a new machine. There is the mind that finds its most
effective expression in teaching and the mind that is most at home in research. There is
the mind that works best in quantitative terms and the mind that luxuriates in poetic
imagery. (…) There are types of excellence that involve doing something well and types
that involve being a certain kind of person. (Gardner 1961: 127–128)
This citation incites to think about excellences, plural, in order to understand
the phenomenon. In other words: we have not one single excellence but excel-
lences. A present tendency, popular in the contemporary world of academia and
research, is to use the talon of excellence as a tool of selection. Due to reasons that
we can only attribute to influences of a neoliberal discourse issuing from the new
management ideology, excellence seems to be a precisely imposed objective for all
participants (scientists and academics, see Paradeise and Thoening 2011). In this
sense, excellence is a goal, a quality to be expected from people who underwent
a long and hard process of selection, who won competitions and are the ‘best on
the market’ and active in the first-rank institutions (also labeled with this same
adjective excellent). The analysis of this phenomenon, as well as discourse analysis
2	 Ethical consequences of this problem are undertaken esp. by MacIntyre (1981); for an
extended discussion, see also Ricoeur (1992: 176–180).
Izabela Wagner
106
of neoliberal modifications of university, I shall leave to the specialists in discourse
analysis and neo-institutionalism.
In this text I will focus on contemporary practices of scientists related to
processes of attributing the label of ‘excellence’ in their ordinary professional
life which take place in a research laboratory. I would like to introduce here a
new perspective, which, in my opinion, better explains the relationship between
attributors and beneficiaries, and helps us to better understand the phenomenon
of excellence − the interactionist approach, as applied by Becker. Becker (1963)
presented the process called ‘labeling.’3
According to this perspective, in order
to understand the phenomenon of attributing the label excellent to a person
(as a result of a quality) we should pay attention to a whole system of reward
attribution, determine the ‘significant others’ (Hughes 1949), as well as indicate
an institutional frame that determines the process. Trying to challenge the fol-
lowing citation: “[…] we know next to nothing, in a methodological way, about
the effects of various systems for the honorific recognition of excellence upon
persons of talent or genius” (Merton 1973: 421), I have employed an ethnographi-
cal approach, especially in observing hidden practices of selection. Those data
will serve as a basis for a reflection about the nature of processes of ‘excellence
production’ in the scientific universe.
3.  Methodology: Ethnography of a life-science laboratory
This paper is based on an ethnographical study conducted in several life-science
laboratories situated in four countries (France, Poland, USA and Germany) during
a period of twelve years. The specificity of the ethnographical method consists of
the lack of an a priori theoretical approach (before the start of the data collection
process); it requires elaborating the working concepts during the period of obser-
vation as well as choosing the research problems to focus on step-by-step. One of
the main topics of my research was the process of excellence construction. This
interest was inherited from my first sociological investigation conducted among
virtuoso musicians (Wagner 2015), where I observed socialization of violinists
within an elite of their professional world.
My first fieldwork conducted in a scientific world was also situated within
groups of researchers that were on high positions in their own ranking list in
3	 An interesting point is that labeling theory was built in a field of sociology of deviation,
but according to sociological practice typical for Hughesian approach (Hughes was
Becker’s mentor), the process of labeling works also in attributing of ‘positive’ values –
this is why I am employing it in excellence analysis.
Sociology of excellence(s) in the knowledge society 107
their specialization: those were also elite laboratories. I started my study in 2003
in France (a basic research institution and a team which was not exactly common
for that particular place. Accordingly, it was called ‘international’ by all research-
ers in the building: for 15 team-members only three were French nationals). It is
important to note here that an international component of team members can
be one of the indicators of ‘excellence production space,’ but it is not a unique
nor determining feature − it is more of the effect of prestige and good reputation.
Even if with this first experience of work observation in a life-science labora-
tory it has been obvious to me that the aspect of ‘international culture of work’ or
‘relations at work determined by culture or origin,’ in other words, the culture in a
sense of ethnic background of the researchers, was important,4
I have always paid
great attention to the excellence production process as one of the core processes
in the construction of scientific careers.
After this first immersion, in a French institution but also within a truly in-
ternational work team, I have realized tensions that exist between a model inter-
nationalized career and local professional trajectories. In many situations I have
been able to observe another binary division (i.e., constructed in opposition):
excellent/ordinary, where excellent matches with international, whereas ordinary is
somewhat attached to local. This can be illustrated with an excerpt of an informal
interview with a Principal Investigator (PI) (a British, educated also in the US and
Japan, working in a French institution):
(1)	
John is furious: I cannot believe! You know my former PhD student Francois. He
was really good for research, did amazing job and I helped him to get his post-doc
at Harvard. After a month of his contract, he received the information that he get
the position of associate professor in P. (small university in France) and decided to
come back, interrupting his contract. I am shocked − he was in the best place in
the world for his research and he dropped everything for this teaching position. I
know this is a status of state employee and you have job to the end of your life but
his research! I cannot understand this.
4	 This is a well-known approach in Poland, first introduced by Ludwik Fleck, who gained
international acclaim thanks to Edinburg School and after the publication of Kuhn’s
Scientific Revolutions (1962). In 1935, Fleck – famous microbiologist, physician, so-
ciologist and philosopher of science – published a book that was translated 44 years
later in English under the title: The Genesis and Development of a Scientific Fact (edited
by T. J. Trenn and R. K. Merton, foreword by Thomas Kuhn) Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 1979. In his work Fleck focused on collective thoughts, but also showed
how important in the production of scientific knowledge is the role played by the
scientist him- or herself and his/her culture.
Izabela Wagner
108
This example shows a choice (which in itself is an exceptional situation nowadays,
as permanent positions in research field are rare) between: 1) a precarious situ-
ation in a prestigious institution offered for a couple of years under a post-doc
contract during which the rat race should lead to a successful career in research,
and 2) stability of a teaching job with worse conditions for doing research. It is
a choice between an international career and a national professional trajectory.
The excellence in research fields seems to be closer on the first path. Those two
career models are also discernible in other professional fields, such as classical
music (Wagner 2015) or middle and higher education (A.-C. Wagner 1995). In
France, people pursue their careers either according to the French model and
thanks to French institutions or following an international pathway (usually in
research they go to British and US institutions).
This sharp distinction between local and international career could also be ob-
served in my second fieldwork, which I started in 2006 in Poland, and conducted
intensively during 4 years (then in a punctual way − going back to the field for
short periods and interviewing people that were the part of my first intensive
observation period).
Poor financial support by the Polish state contrasts with a high level of higher
education (thanks to a long tradition of university teaching in several scientific
disciplines, theoretical knowledge was transmitted at the high level, however
only in some specialties. This quality was then translated in the area of research
practice).5
Any professional trajectory of a well-educated graduate becoming a
scientist necessarily includes a scientific experience abroad. The career of a local
scientist (as it was the case in France that I observed during my first fieldwork) is
impossible to be concluded in Poland. Today, to apply for a position in the research
field (after a post-doc) and according to the rules implemented by last reforms in
Poland, imposed by the minister of Higher Education and Science in 2011, the
experience of scientific work abroad is required (especially for STEM-sciences,
i.e., Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics).
Four years of this first part of my fieldwork would not be complete without in-
terviews with researchers from outside STEM specialties, as well as by short term
observations conducted in German and US laboratories. Analyzing this portion
5	 This difference between theoretical knowledge transmission and practical training is
related strictly to a financial situation that a given university or research institute is
facing; in Poland, the financial support of the research activity is among the lowest
in EU states, which makes it difficult for the transmission of practical knowledge in
several cost-intensive research areas (life-sciences, physics, chemistry, etc.).
Sociology of excellence(s) in the knowledge society 109
of data, I have coined the term of a ‘Transnational Professional’ (TP),6
which un-
derlines the importance of international experience in a career of a scientist. In
the case of Polish researchers, this is similar to what took place in the past (I have
also performed a historical comparison of careers after WW2), amounting to an
ordinary trajectory in a research area (with the exception of some humanities
specialists whose work is grounded in Polish culture and language).
According to my results, a TP is a person who is a professional (Reader 1967),
and has been socialized in several countries. His/her career path includes multiple
experiences of geographic mobility. Such a person is a member of international
networks, and has affiliations with different institutions in different countries. A
TP works with funds provided from various sources (national and international),
and behaves according to the International Culture of Work7
(Wagner 2011).
However, if we employ this term, we should take into consideration that ‘excel-
lence,’ previously closely related to international experience (as in the past it was
only the case of the ‘best researchers’), is today an ordinary element of one’s cur-
riculum. Scientists themselves frequently stress that being an ‘international’ or
even a ‘transnational’ scientist is no longer a synonym for excellence.
In 2010 I started my American fieldwork that was conducted in an institution
that the scientists in the observed field, i.e., life-sciences, considered ‘the best.’
6	 The first part of the concept − transnational in adjective form – requires some explana-
tion. While international is perceived mostly in Durkheimian way (Durkheim 1956),
where the word refers to aspects of cosmopolitan culture, in the scientific settings we
observe a different version of metissage − closer to the Maussian (Mauss 1920) inter-
pretation, which is inter-national. In order to avoid the misunderstandings, I decided
to employ the term transnational. This expression appeared in sociology in the study of
(im)migration “referring to the civic-political memberships, economic involvements,
social networks, and cultural identities of (im)migrants and their offspring extending
across state-national boundaries and linking people and institutions in two or more
nation-states in diverse, multilayered patterns” (Morawska 2009). This term allows for
better understanding of the phenomenon, in which the dynamics between national
and international, between heterogeneity of multiple cultures and homogeneity due
to internationalization (we could also, in certain situations, call this phenomenon
Americanization) and constant interactions animate the activity of internationalized
work places (for more, see Wagner 2014).
7	 I will not develop here the term international culture of work because it is not precise
and requires long descriptive analysis. Shortly speaking, this is a type of professional
culture which is not inscribed in a repertoire, is the subject of direct transmission by
immersion, and requires tolerance and flexibility in ordinary communication, more
open attitude toward people originating from other countries and not being English
native speakers (Wagner 2011).
Izabela Wagner
110
This was truly an ethnography of an elite scientific team work and of a prestig-
ious institution that lasted for 6 months. Again, this deep ethnographical study
was pursued by punctual meetings with participants years after, and until today
I maintain a privileged contact with some of them. In that place I observed the
practice of work shared by people who participated in the process of excellence
production. They were in the place because of two factors: prolonged socialization
directed onto prestigious institutions, as well as publications in most prestigious
scientific journals (like Nature, Cell).
For this article, the majority of data was gathered during this period of my eth-
nographical study, as in that place I was able to best observe the practices related
to excellence production. Doing this, I partially completed the gap which appears
in a Mertonian vision of excellence (potential/prestige), as I observed and ana-
lyzed excellence in its ‘making’. This has been possible thanks to the methodology
I have employed. Ethnography, in my opinion, is the best way of investigation for
understanding complex, and frequently invisible, phenomena such as selections,
valuation, evaluation, as well as excellence detection and construction. Why? The
following citation gives a response to that question: “In order to learn human
behavior we should employ this method while people respect the rules as often
as they do not respect them. This is why the human life escapes mathematical
methods” (Malinowski, cited by Young 2004: 122).
4.  The construction of excellence
4.1  The labeling process
Any analysis of the process of excellence production requires an adapted socio-
logical approach and subject-specific conceptual tools elaborated on a basis of
the described above, adapted methodology that is capable of catching processual
dynamics. Becker’s (1963) book Outsiders has revolutionized (in Kuhn’s 1962
sense) the sociology of deviance. The book contains an analysis of the process
of becoming a ‘deviant’ in this case, concerning marihuana smokers. The crucial
element here is a sociological differentiation of the practices themselves (mari-
huana smoking) from the process of becoming labeled (deviant). Applying the
Beckerian approach to the analysis of excellence production, we should consider
two disparate elements: the practice itself (doing science) and the process of be-
coming labeled (deviant, excellent). We should keep in mind that evaluation of an
activity determines qualification of a person perceived as the author of the action.
This approach gives us a basis for the following statements. There is no such
thing as excellence in science. We need people who decide who is excellent in
Sociology of excellence(s) in the knowledge society 111
doing science, and we need institutions to maintain labeling and actions resulting
from such labeling. Those actions open access to different kinds of rare resources,
like future research positions, possibilities of realizing new projects, new col-
laborations and publishing opportunities. This is especially visible at each step of
selections that rhythm scientific careers (publications, grant attributions, prizes
and distinctions). In other words, becoming excellent means being successful in
several selections in which candidates will be designated as excellent. This is a dy-
namic process: as selections occur constantly, the dynamic is important. However,
mechanisms such as Matthew Effect (elaborated by Zuckerman and Merton; see
Merton 1988), which means that previous reputations influence evaluation of new
‘products,’ or ‘career coupling’ (specific collaborations that determine careers of
scientists; thus, the reputation of a close collaborator also impacts the labeling)
are important elements of the process of excellence labeling, and, therefore, con-
structing the rhetorical authority. In a professional universe in which the careers
of participants are driven by almost permanent selections, the process of labeling
and detection and then confirmation of the label of excellence is crucial in career
construction.
4.2  Labeling practices: Institutions
Without going into rhetorical or discursive analysis of texts produced by institu-
tions and proliferated by science policies (in Europe: the EU Commission, min-
istries of HE, governance of foundations supporting scientific activities, etc.), in
the last decades we can observe that the term excellence remains one of the most
powerful tools justifying selections and pointing goals to achieve in the field of
sciences (other terms will be, for example, innovation or creativity). This term in-
dicates a quality which a research institution8
(university, research institute, group
of scientists, laboratory) should acquire. At the same time, it is a characteristics
that should describe an individual. This is the way to successfully pass numerous
selections and one of the most important values for a contemporary researcher.
As such approach is supported by the authorities, it comports an a priori condi-
tion of neutrality of the game of getting the label excellent. There is only one rule:
the evaluation is based solely on ‘scientific criteria,’ so this is supposed to be a meri-
tocratic judgement. All evaluation mechanisms of scientific activity are presented,
8	 I put aside the important issue of ‘Flag’ institutions or ‘Excellence Centers’, which are a
part of the policy implemented in the EU. Critics of this system are strong even in the
countries that traditionally developed the system of grandes écoles, like in France; see
Paradeise and Thoenig (2011).
Izabela Wagner
112
by those powerful institutions, as objective and ‘fair,’ as they base on objective (nu-
meric) tools. Impact Factors (IF), H-index and other measurements of scientific
quality production were mostly created for other purposes – as the history of IF
construction shows – and yet are employed to assess the quality of a given person’s
work. This largely employed system, which is often presented as a perfect, objective
tool, is highly criticized not only by the scientific community (indeed, it is perceived
as a pathology of contemporary scientific world and called ‘punctosis’ (Rawat and
Meena 2014; Abbott et al. 2010) but also by science itself, especially by sociomet-
ric specialists (Nowak 2015; Flaherty 2015). Indeed, applying a unified model of
evaluating the quality of scientific work may surprise, considering the richness of
scientific disciplines, specialties, approaches, methodology and practices.
A simple example from a discipline that I have studied – biology – will show
inefficiency and inconsistence of common evaluation practices performed by
institutions and research administration. A researcher – a specialist in the cell
cycle – using mice in their experiments (modifying genetically several generations
of animals) needs to spend about 4 years of bench-work (laboratory work) on one
project in order to gather the data necessary for understanding a given process
that will form a basis for writing an important scientific article. Such an article,
published in a ‘good place,’ will give an important number of citations (if the
area of research is popular enough). Another biologist who investigates similar
processes but uses drosophila bugs will only need a couple of months to produce
a number of generations of the bugs that is necessary for understanding genetic
transmissions. He or she will be able to publish an article based on that work much
quicker (in about 2 years), comparing to the first scientist who has used mice. In
sociology, we can compare a case of an ethnographer who needs over a year of
data collection with one of a statistician who will get the data through a survey.
The chosen methodology is therefore a very important factor determining one’s
ability to obtain a given number of ‘objective’ points. A relation between points
(measure of IF, H-index) and research quality, often presented by an institution
and in science policy as objective, is in fact a subjective social construction based
on peer review (this element I will develop later) that influences scientific careers.
4.3  The specificity of scientific careers
The specificity of scientific careers should be taken into account in the analysis of
the process of excellence production, as it forms a crucial example of how the for-
mer is based on the latter. The objective of all people belonging to this professional
universe is to produce the best science possible, to give the best from themselves:
to be outstanding, to excel, to become excellent. The bar is high. The expectations
Sociology of excellence(s) in the knowledge society 113
are exceptional. Hermanowicz (1998) in his research devoted to the careers of sci-
entists and based on case studies of specialists in physics, underlines one particular
aspect of training into excellence, i.e., implantation of huge ambition: “the scientists,
like the artists or the athlete, follow the pantheon of immortals – figures who have
achieved a place in history through exemplary performance. […] Who aspires to be
a mediocre Johnny Unitas, a second-rate Beethoven, or a watered-down Newton?”
(Hermanowicz 1998: xiii). The career trajectory is based on numerous selections
that start on the first day in general school, that is, on a constant competition with
others and with oneself. A young debutant in science obtains the best grades, fre-
quently takes the first place in his/her class and, most often, is among the highest-
ranking students (Wagner 2011). Progressively, with years spent at school, his/her
focus is narrowing to a specific area of study and the university training (at least in
European countries). Such a beginner is already at the first step of the socialization
into the research work.
One important part of this specific education is related to the acceptance of fail-
ure (Dalmont and Atkinson 2001). In many specialties a huge majority of research
experiences simply fails. Practitioners need to develop a particular resistance to
the feeling of failure. Moreover, they must also deal with another important aspect
of this specific training, i.e., the comparative failure. The success in their careers
directly depends on their capacity to incorporate this feeling in their professional
pathway. According to Glaser (1963), this phenomenon is due to a specific educa-
tion based on awaking huge ambition (for example, to get a Nobel Prize). As the
career develops, the feeling of impossibility to achieve this goal becomes progres-
sively more clear. Comparison to others, to the best in the field and to the heroes
from the past (famous scientists) evokes in people who do sciences a feeling of
failure… Excellence seems to be out of reach if we measure it by the highest levels
of social achievements. Social achievement is a term employed by sociologists; for
the participants – i.e., researchers – it is simply an achievement related to their
scientific activity (getting a Nobel Prize or a position in the College de France).
Thinking about a way to attain their objectives, scientists focus further on their
domain – the science is what is most important – and, at the same time, they
miss the determining role of the social component in their career construction.
Another aspect that must not be ignored is modification of practices and time
devoted to particular actions that the research work consists of. At the first stages
of scientific trajectory, the bench-work (experiments and collection of data) con-
stitutes a majority of tasks. Almost all working time is devoted to manipulating
the scientific instruments, measurement, reading other scientists’ publications and
writing scholarly articles. Progressing in the career in a contemporary research
Izabela Wagner
114
world means becoming an expert and taking managerial positions (senior scien-
tist positions and permanent contracts for researchers; the latter becomes a rare
situation today). Writing grants, applying for money, managing a research team,
writing papers, evaluating other people’s publications and taking part in commis-
sions are tasks that compose daily activities of a successful scientist (in addition,
there is teaching if our scientist is also a university professor). We can describe this
phenomenon as a passage from a bench to an office, in other words, from doing
research (so called ‘wet’ work, i.e., laboratory tasks) to an administrative capacity
(dealing with papers, i.e., a bureaucracy job). This is again a strange situation: a
specialist who has trained for years and possesses a narrow expertise (research
methods and knowledge in one particular field) starts to devote the majority of
his/her time to a work that could just as well be done by a manager of science
(switching the activity is much more frequent in EU countries than in the US).
The problem of advancing on official steps of a career (PhD student – post-
doc – lab-leader [PI] – director of a research institution – politician of science)
is related to one’s progressive loss of contact with the research activity. In some
disciplines such advancing means that a person pursuing a successful career is
missing time for updates (constant reading and research practice); in other words,
he or she loses contact with the last trends and research novelties in their dis-
cipline (interviewed researchers estimate that in quantic chemistry, after a two-
month gap in reading, a researcher is no more up to date and can hardly serve as
an expert in emergent/dynamics topics).
Considering that in sciences the expert is the person who knows and the knowl-
edge is the ranking criterion for people in this universe, we will have no trouble to
say that the researchers deeply immersed in their activity of research (a PhD student
or a post-doc) are more informed about the last developments of their specialty
than their bosses who remain busy with administrative work and committees of
various selections. The analysis of the scientific career development allows us to
formulate questions about hierarchy construction in scientific fields. According to
unofficial, insiders’ evaluation of excellence in science, the best are those who know
better (more). However, the official evaluation is based on institutional stages of
careers (from the bench to the office). In practice we have to deal with two opposite
systems, two different perceptions and two modalities of excellence construction:
an official and an unofficial one. Those are the reverse and inverse pyramids that
structure the social world of science and produce understandable tensions. Know-
ing this, we must pose a very sensitive question concerning the production of
excellence: who is excellent? The person who evaluates (commonly outdated) or
the person being evaluated (who stays firm in the course of action)?
Sociology of excellence(s) in the knowledge society 115
4.4 
Peer review: How a sum of subjective opinions becomes
an objective fact
(…) one of the problems inherent in developing new systems of rewards for accomplish-
ment in science, in the arts, humanities, and social sciences, in all activities making for
the public good. Who shall judge? And what criteria shall they use for their judgments?
(Merton 1973: 422)
More than half a century ago, Fleck (1935) published his seminal (and almost
neglected by the scientific community) book titled Genesis and Development of a
Scientific Fact. The author unravels the process of discovery underlining the sub-
jectivity of researcher and his/her own culture (in a large sense of the term). Kuhn,
30 years later, developed this constructivist approach further, and since the 1960s
the scientific community have been really careful when using the term ‘objectivity’.
Social constructivism concerns also the process of science-making, even in ‘hard’
sciences. The positivist approach is nowadays less popular, and it can only surprise
to see how the system of researchers’ career evaluation is based on a positivistic belief
in the efficiency and objectivity of the process of evaluating scientists.
In 2009 the scientific community could finally read what people have been
speaking and chatting about for years in corridors of universities and research in-
stitutions (this is usually what sociology is about: the hidden processes). Lamont’s
(2009) book How Professors Think tackles the hidden side of the processes of
evaluating scientific work and project proposals, that is, the basic activity of vari-
ous committees of selection. This publication, based on participatory observation
(Lamont is a Harvard professor of sociology) and interviews with human and
social scientists from various fields, underlines one of the crucial aspects of peer
review: its subjectivity. There is no such thing as an objective evaluation of a re-
search proposal or a research article. Lamont shows several factors that influence
opinions of experts. Moreover, she describes in detail persuasive strategies and
negotiations taking place at granting and scholarship committees. The insiders
(people who have already participated in such committees) know very well how
difficult and conflictual those negotiations are, and what is the real role of ‘meri-
tocracy’ comparing to social and rhetorical elements of the assessment.
In addition to these two issues – subjectivity of the process of doing science
and complexity of peer-evaluation – we should mention the third point, that is,
the composition of expert committees. Merton (1973), cited above, has already
asked the question about the choice of the people to do this kind of ‘job.’ We can
employ words such as nepotism, careerism or other names for networking prac-
tices which are frequently a basis for social selection of the members of a given
committee. The composition of the jury is never a result of hazard. The power
Izabela Wagner
116
relationships determine the presence of chosen people (and the absence of others)
in the decisive meetings that rhythm the scientific activity. In addition to the
complexity of processes of the selection of experts, we have to consider the nature
of the criteria employed by the members of those evaluating collectives and their
persuasive strategies. Lamont (2009) shows how factors such as the discipline, the
methodology, or theoretical and individual aspects of committee members’ own
work shape the process of evaluation.
If we know that both research activity and evaluation of it are based on subjective
criteria, how can we support this system’s claim for objectivity? In such a model, a
sum of several subjective practices and evaluations seems to give an objective result,
i.e., an objective evaluation. Seems illogical, however, this is how it works!
4.5  Informal evaluation by insiders: Educating to track excellence
Many times I have observed laboratory meetings where team members discussed
a freshly published research paper. After a discussion about scientific content of
the analyzed publication, there always came a discussion about the authorship
and the paternity of tasks distinguished by scientists. Who was the author of the
idea? Who elaborated the protocol of the experience? Who conducted the experi-
ences? Who wrote the text? Who trained the scientists? Whose knowledge gave
the basis for understanding the processes under investigation? Those questions,
concerning the rhetorical ethos, show a complexity of scientific work, which – in
the huge majority of the cases – is collective work. Scientists know very well that
efforts of all team members are indispensable to conduct a research project that
finds its term in a scientific publication (the observed researchers rarely employ
the word discovery in this context).
Pointille (2004) devoted his book to the problem of a scientific signature, dem-
onstrating how complex and difficult the process of attributing paternity to a given
element of scientific work is. Through a detailed analysis of the contribution of
each author mentioned in the publication, scientists learn that their contribution
to the scholarship is various and that the excellence (since in prestigious journals
we expect excellent publications) has multiple authors as well as multiple facets.
For example, an idea could be excellent, and yet the proceeding proofs are weak,
or an experiment protocol is excellent whereas the idea is common or previously
known. This approach is close to analyses of the sociologists of work who cut the
process of making something into a set of tasks and stages of production. This
is how we can understand how ‘the science is created,’ and how we recognize
excellence by applying a detailed analysis of science at work or, in other words,
by deconstructing the process of production.
Sociology of excellence(s) in the knowledge society 117
The scientists who trace authorship and authors’ exact contribution also ask the
question: Who is not among the authors and should be (or could be) there? Or, who
has influenced this project? This research practice shows the importance of strong
collaborations for the careers of scientists. Career coupling is a phenomenon that
characterizes scientific fields (also artistic fields; see Wagner 2006) and concerns
strong, long-lasting relationships between collaborators. The most obvious case of
a career coupling relationship is a mentor–PhD student relation. The specificity of
career coupling requires a three-stage process: matching, fusion (that is, an active
collaboration) and passive cooperation. The first stage takes some months, the sec-
ond, some years, during which collaboration partners work intensively together. The
last stage does not require intensive collaboration, but in the peers’ perception the
linked scientists will stay bound to each other to the end of the professional activity
of one of the partners (rare exceptions emerge in cases of conflicts or ruptures of
the relationships). The influence of a former close collaborator (people in science
work frequently in tandems – or in small groups – for years) is also noticed in the
process of discussing members who participated in evaluated work.
Merton (1968) spoke also about the phenomenon of fixing, in the participants’
memory, the names that were famous and learning to ignore other names. This
occurs frequently in cases of multiple authorship that include some well-known
scientists along with debutants or less known ones.
Authorship recognition, essential for the creation of rhetorical ethos, is diffi-
cult in the case of ‘vampirisation,’9
when, among the authors, a name of someone
who contributed in a significant way to the process of knowledge production is
missing. An excellent example is the story of the concept of ‘Matthew Effect,’ the
paternity of which is attributed to Merton (as he published himself the paper about
this phenomenon in 1968). However, 20 years later, he himself recognized that
the idea came from his PhD student at that time, Harriet Zuckerman, who sub-
sequently became his wife. This kind of ‘borrowing’ ideas and results is frequent
in scientific fields, due to the complexity of the process of doing science and the
collective character of this activity (Pontille 2004).
Insiders know these complexities very well, and they are also aware of different
rules that regulate attribution of authorship (and its order) among team members
and, consequently, the recognition of each author’s ethos. This is a power game,
as well as the image of hierarchy built inside a given work team. The ‘publish or
9	 I am using this term – as a result of my ethnographical work – based on the analysis
of hidden careers, i.e., contributions of people who work in the shadow for building
careers of others (Wagner 2011).
Izabela Wagner
118
perish’ regime exerts huge pressure on all those practices. The ambiance of compe-
tition rather than collaboration among team members is obvious. In such a com-
petitive and tense social environment, the rise for excellence is an act to perform
on a daily basis. We need to notice that an important tension between individual
aspects (evaluation, authorship, career making) and the collective character of
scientific work is pivotal for daily activities of scientists who, knowing the impor-
tance of effective and inspiring collaborations, are nevertheless socialized for an
individual rat race since the very first years of their professional training. They
know that expected excellence (more precisely, excellence expected from them) is
possible to achieve only through collective work, thanks to good collaborations.
4.6  ‘Excellence’ among insiders
As I have mentioned in the first part of this chapter, the term excellence constitutes
a powerful tool in the discourse of politicians of the Research & Development
(R&D) sector10
in several countries, as well as in international institutions. But
what about the presence of this term among the participants?
According to my observations conducted in several countries during informal
discussions among scientists (in majority, in English), the term excellent was never
employed as an adjective referring to a person or work. However, other equivalent
terms are applied both to scientists and to the quality of their performance, con-
stituting particular lexical choices at the elocutio level. I have noted the following
expressions: promising, has potential, hard-working, forerunner, having a drive,
having intuition, crazy, nice, good, supportive, sharing knowledge, pushing science
ahead, inspiring. Promising and has potential concern mostly people in the first
stage of their careers. According to Mertonian approach, those expressions have
a rather instrumental meaning (Merton 1975: 422): they point out somebody’s
potential of excellence, and suggest providing good work conditions for such
persons, in order not to waste their potential. Other terms, like hard-working,
concern the work practice, and are much closer to what we may call the objective
criteria. This is also an indispensable treat of an ‘excellent’ scientist; all participants
agree on this point. Having drive denotes a kind of attitude perceptible at work
(especially field work and experimental work) that some people complete being
10	 Research & Development (R&D) is a term employed by OECD and EU politicians and
bureaucracy related to the industrial as well as scientific development. The mixing of both
categories (industrial and scientific research) in one indicator (financial support by state
or other organizations) makes difficult the evaluation of an exact amount of money put
in the research activity (especially in basic research).
Sociology of excellence(s) in the knowledge society 119
guided by a scientific intuition. Having drive is to express a unique attitude that
is perceived as particularly suited for scientific work. Crazy or nice are qualities of
temper that are frequently attributed to scientists. The first one can be described
as a huge involvement in the scientific activity and an unusual life style. The sec-
ond is an attitude especially cherished in the case of collective activity. “I do not
need the prima-donna, I need nice and hard-working people” – as I was told by a
leader of a laboratory in a prestigious US research institute. Supportive and shar-
ing knowledge are welcome and particularly expected from experienced scientists
toward younger colleagues. Those elements are also crucial in the creation of an
ambiance that would be profitable for science activity in collective projects that
otherwise could fail, due to a huge competition among participants. Forerunner,
pushing science ahead, inspiring are terms that concern creativity and innovative
aspects of the actions of an ‘excellent’ scientist. All those qualities converge in
one term – excellent, and this package should be demonstrated by scientists who
aspire to this labeling.
Excellency as a quality regarding papers (i.e., the scientific production) is ex-
pressed by the following expressions: good, well-done, credible, possible, interest-
ing, important, inspiring, paving. The first two adjectives are simple and relate to
professional aspects of a paper: every step of the project was done in a good way.
This is like the first step of the recognition of a good quality of scientific work.
A higher praise is expressed by the next two adjectives: possible, credible. This
could be surprising for a lot of scholars who are not familiar with the nature of
experimental work. The skepticism expressed by scientists in many specialties is
related to the uncertainty of the published results as well as to the dynamic and
unstable character of the discovery process (in some fields, as much as 50% of
publications after only two years are considered incorrect).11
This is why credible is
an expression of credit of trust, rarely referring to scientific publications made by
an unknown team. Finally, the terms such as important, inspiring, paving express
the highest recognition of an important contribution to the development of a
given field. The most controversial term is interesting, as this adjective could be
used for evaluating a publication that is simply bad, inadequate, unusual, or that
escapes one’s capacity of evaluation. The way of pronouncing this word is very
important in order to deconstruct the meaning of the expression: as a genuine
positive evaluation or as rhetorical irony.
11	 See, for example: http://www.theguardian.com/science/2015/aug/27/study-delivers-
bleak-verdict-on-validity-of-psychology-experiment-results?CMP=share_btn_fb
Izabela Wagner
120
We should notice that these evaluations are not made forever, and that scien-
tists include in their evaluating practices the dynamics of scientific production.
A person perceived as an inspiring and forerunning scholar can, after some years,
get evaluated as old-fashioned, out-of-date or even an overpassed scholar. Those
unofficial evaluations are not permanent, and should not be considered as a part
of a stable professional capital. This practice of informal evaluation concerns
temporary performance, case by case study, that makes room for criticism of
authors even of the highest official recognition (like numerous anecdotes concern-
ing Nobel Prize Winners, indicating how scientific ‘excellence’ is dynamic and
fragile). In other words, among insiders in the practice of informal evaluation,
the Matthew Effect is less strong than it appears to be in official evaluations. This
is why it is important to rely not only on documents but also to look for invisible
practices and hidden procedures.
4.7  Auxiliary characteristics and the excellence labeling process
Hughes (1945) analyzed ‘auxiliary characteristics’ in people’s careers. He dem-
onstrated how non-meritocratic criteria played a role in occupational careers.
Hughes showed that – when several people of a similar professional level apply
for the same position – elements such as race, gender or familial background are
crucial in selection processes. His sociological analysis has proved to be a wake-up
call, and since this publication a lot of scholars have been much more attentive to
non-meritocratic aspects in play in processes of selection.
The data I have collected while investigating scientific careers show how these
features – at first glance not connected with a profession of molecular biologist –
play their role: nationality, culture/ethnicity, religion, mother-tongue, spoken lan-
guages, accent, ability to write in English, knowledge of local system of Higher
Education, scholarly background, networks, institutional affiliation. All these ele-
ments can have a separate impact on, or sum up to have an important, or even
decisive role in the process of excellence construction. If we agree with the previ-
ous statement about the construction of excellence as a collective process in which
the entourage of a given person plays a crucial part as it decides about admission
to or rejection from the ‘inner circle’ – the place where the best professionals can
thrive – we should pay extreme attention to what determines the trajectory of a
scientist.
Being in the right place at the right moment signifies exactly having acquired
all components attributed to an ‘excellent scientist.’ Those criteria, even if they
rarely are a matter for overt discussions or negotiations, are being taken into ac-
count and this mechanism of selection is visible, especially when a candidate is
Sociology of excellence(s) in the knowledge society 121
facing a rejection.12
However, those accepted into a team that helps newcomers to
become ‘excellent’ can also have troubles because of the characteristics mentioned
above. It is easy to imagine difficulties that a person with a poor level of spoken
English and a strong Asian accent will experience in relationships with other team
members. Those interactional difficulties can be decisive in conducting collective
research work which forms a basis for their future evaluation. In this case, the
difficulty is doubled: firstly, one has to integrate within the team and to obtain
social acceptance and, secondly, he or she needs to somehow overcome their lack
of social connections that are necessary to conduct the research work.
As social relationships are a necessary aspect of professional relationships (low
standardization of the tasks and importance of trust in basic research require some
quality of social relationships), those auxiliary characteristics play an important
role during whole career trajectory where daily work consists of being a part of a
team in specific work conditions.
4.8  Failure acceptance in specific work conditions
The scientists who work in laboratories are involved in a very specific profes-
sional activity. In order to understand the process of career making and its crucial
element for science – that is, the construction of excellence – we should at least
briefly mention the specificity of scientific work. I will focus my description on
research laboratories in life sciences, in which scholars do basic research work
(taking into consideration relative wealth of each discipline, specialties and types
of scientific work, I chose laboratories with working conditions that correspond
to a majority of work environments in the world of sciences).
The laboratory team consists of several scientists at different stages of their
career: students in internships, PhD students, post-docs, senior scientists, visit-
ing researchers and PIs. This turnover is very important because, since for several
years, the financial structure of the laboratory work has been based on a granting
system that imposes temporary contracts. In practice, there is always someone
new in the lab, someone who is leaving and looking for another job, someone who
is in the middle of his or her stay (contracts last in general between 1–3 years).
With exception of some institutions and some countries, this is rare today that a
laboratory team is composed of permanent researchers who do not worry about
a term of their contract. The term ‘precarious situation’ concerns a majority of the
12	 For each element mentioned above I am able to give an illustration using data from the
field. I have provided several examples in my paper devoted to the specificity of work
in the multicultural laboratories (Wagner 2014).
Izabela Wagner
122
people working in research laboratories. The permanent selection process (related
to researching one’s next job/position) and structural reasons (since obtaining a
PhD degree or taking next steps in one’s career, e.g., habilitation degree, can be –
or even must be, in some countries – the occasion for a change of a workplace)
put all scholars under the pressure of the ‘publish or perish’ rule.
The next element that impacts scholars’ situation is, for the youngest scientists,
the PhD completion term (which frequently correlates with one’s salary). For older
scientists, the stress is related to grant competitions. The proportion of successful
proposals is decreasing and, at the same time, the part of financial support for
science that is distributed via grant system is growing and the number of scientists
is increasing, too. Stephan (2012), in her exhaustive book entitled eloquently How
Economics Shape Science, demonstrates a huge waste of human work and eco-
nomical bankruptcy of the current system of funding science. As an economist,
she argues the inefficiency of present structures of selections. Scientists themselves
overtly criticize the present system because of distortions of the scientific work it
imposes (e.g., time wasted on preparations of proposal or lack of risky projects,
as they have small chances for getting the grants).
All factors listed above, together with social factors (such as high ambitions and
unreal expectations that are the origin of feeling of comparative failure) and inter-
national composition of group members that easily provoke cultural misunder-
standings, create an exceptional workplace with abundant stress factors. The most
specific, and directly related to the nature of experimental work, is the collapse of
experiments: in some domains the specialists estimate that 90% of experiments
fail. Such an ‘average’ proportion would be impossible to accept in many other
occupational situations: can one imagine a hairdresser that fails in nine out of ten
hairdos or a wall-painter who messes up nine in ten house renovations? What is
impossible to accept in other work situations is a rule, difficult to incorporate, in
basic sciences (Delamont and Atkinson 2001). The acceptance of failure is a result
of long years of socialization into this peculiar type of professional activity. The
specific socialization also brings forth some side-effects. For example, scholars
seem to actually accept the auto-discrimination, a hidden phenomenon rarely
voiced in scientists’ overt discussions.
4.9  Auto-discriminatory practices
After several years of being trained in teams of scientists, a young adept who de-
cides to engage in the next steps of a scientific career is not only equipped with hard
knowledge, methodological scholarship and soft skills, adapted to the work in the
laboratory, but he or she also learns how to project and shape his or her career. This
Sociology of excellence(s) in the knowledge society 123
knowledge includes one’s ability to create a grant proposal, to write an adequate CV,
as well as to successfully pass interviews in order to obtain the next job. Searching
for good opportunities and informal job position requests (via network of friends
and collaborators) is also a part of this specific activity. If we consider the present
context of temporary employment, we will easily infer that every one year out of
three is being spent partially on researching one’s next position (in parallel with
one’s scientific work). The strategies of looking for the job are various, but one
interesting phenomenon is related to auto-discriminatory practices.
By this term I understand all types of limitations that a researcher applying for
a job is using when preparing his or her strategy. As I have explained above, sci-
entists are educated in an atmosphere of high expectations, and after several years
of scientific work (at the end of PhD study or during one’s first post-doc) they
usually experience a feeling of comparative failure (Glaser 1964a). The dissonance
between them and their surrounding in perceiving their careers is important. The
people around a given person (the family, but also colleagues and hierarchy) can
assess him or her as an excellent scholar, but the scientist himself/herself is con-
vinced that his/her abilities and knowledge are simply not good enough. When
preparing plans for the next steps of a career, they undertake actions and apply
for job according to their own vision of their professional level.
As an example we could cite a researcher who never sent his candidature to
the most prestigious research laboratories, as he said that they would reject his
offer because he did not have enough good publications. From the perspective
of the recruiting people, the hardest task is to find appropriate candidates for a
good place with a rare specialty: it is difficult to obtain a large offer not because
of specialty, but because the university is famous. People underestimate their own
level, and consider themselves, in a process of self-persuasion, not to be good
enough to be ‘one from Harvard.’
As it is difficult for a sociologist to assess a scientific level of a potential candidate,
the auto-discrimination in science can only be briefly mentioned here and referred
to the concept of comparative failure to show the subjectivity of professional evalua-
tion and its consequences that are specific for this professional milieu. On the other
hand, a sociologist is better equipped to analyze practices of auto-discrimination
whenever they are related to social aspects of researchers’ careers.
In some disciplines and specialties, the research requires very expensive equip-
ment that is accessible only in some countries. Looking at the organization of
the world of science (especially in fields in which the instruments are extremely
complex and the laboratory activity is considered an important financial invest-
ment on the side of the state, European Union, universities or private companies),
Izabela Wagner
124
we could apply to some extent Wallernstein’s (1974) north/south division. We
can indeed easily observe a certain ‘task-division’ between those two parts of the
world: the rich (‘north’) countries offer equipment and money for doing research,
and the peripheries (the ‘south’) offer free education. In other words: the world is
doing science in ‘central’ countries, but with heads and hands of the peripheries.
Obviously, the US also educates their scientists, but were we to look at the pro-
portion of foreign scientists in the US (or in the UK and other central countries)
we can observe that the majority of researchers working in the laboratory come
from a country of their professional activity (this is difficult to present in statisti-
cal data, as frequently the sources about the employment of foreign scientists are
not precise enough; more in Wagner 2014). This vision of a divided world is clear
for my participants. In consequence, they adjust their strategy of job research
according to this division.
The most important for the aspirant scholars is to enter as soon as possible
the networks that have access to the central country resources. High prestige
institutions of education and scientific training are the best place for finishing the
socialization. If in the past, a mythical ‘post-doc’ in the US was a way to accede a
team of excellence, and become a part of it (and, therefore, it was the best strat-
egy), today it seems that young scientists should get even earlier to those famous
places in order to start their process of acquiring the label of ‘excellence.’ As I have
shown before, it is indeed the best way to enter the excellence trajectory. The gain
is the precious affiliation to a famous institution that offers symbolic power. Such
a phenomenon is illustrated by the following excerpt:
(2)	
“the difference is huge. When I had my EU middle rank university e-mail address
nobody responded to my letters. Only people who know me but never I get the
response from unknown person whom I sent the letter. Since I have Harvard ter-
minal – you know – I am getting always the response.”
Another scientist spoke about the reception of his article proposals:
(3)	“you know, when I am sending the paper, with this e-mail address my paper is taken
into account seriously. I know that this is anonymous, however they see the e-mail.”
Scientists are convinced that the affiliation and the network of belonging influ-
ences their own ‘power’ and, if they lack those powerful signs of prestige, they can-
not design their careers as easily. This is how the process of auto-discrimination
works. Scientists construct their careers by taking into account their geographic
provenance, the place of their education and nationality, as well as other non-
scientific aspects (Hughesian ‘auxiliary characteristics’ mentioned above) when
Sociology of excellence(s) in the knowledge society 125
they are planning their next step in the career or when they are choosing places
for their publications.
Among participants, the knowledge about career construction includes not
only specific information related to an official system of career-making in a given
country, but also such informal aspects that can be, in several cases, decisive in
numerous processes of selections. For scientists in several specialties it is also
obvious that their own country is not a good place for becoming excellent, that
they will need another place with appropriate equipment, sufficient research fund-
ing, as well as with specific knowledge that allows to play the game of scientific
discovery. This is exactly what amounts to excellent work conditions. Without this
aspect, no excellence construction is possible – as the labeling process requires
not only a specific group of people who provide assessments but also fulfillment
of some specific conditions in order for such a place to be perceived and evaluated
as a site where excellence can be, and is performed and achieved.
5.  Concluding remarks
Four evident conclusions could be driven from the previous analysis.
First: that excellence production is a site of power games, and it generates net-
work dynamics that should provide scholars access to resources that are necessary
for the production of knowledge (at the highest level possible).
Second: the production of excellence is a collective process that is visible
through an individual’s career path (this is why we should pay such attention to
side-effects, such as vampirization).
Third: the production of excellence is a process that takes place both within
science (based on scientific criteria) and outside of it (non-scientific, but socio-
logical ‘auxiliary criteria’), and that develops through constant selections and that
involves complex rhetorical strategies.
Fourth: in official discourse, excellence is presented as an objective value and an
objective process; meanwhile, in the light of sociological analysis, it is evident that
we deal with subjective values, persuasive strategies and complex processes of select-
ing the winners and rejecting the losers in which subjective criteria are employed.
This last statement is understandable not only to sociologists who, thanks to
their sociological eye, are able to see ‘the truth.’ Insiders know very well that
‘auxiliary characteristics’ play an important role in their careers, as well as in the
process of excellence construction. This begs some questions: if scientists know
the tortuous mechanisms of excellence production, why do they believe in the
whole system as if it were objective? Why do they continue their practices in order
to prove that they are excellent, although they know that the evaluation is based
Izabela Wagner
126
not entirely on objective scientific merit? Why do they desire the right to label
other people as excellent and, by consequence, to become the group of ‘significant
others’ (Simmel and Hughes 1949)? The answers relate to the access to power:
the group that has the power to declare another group as excellent (or not) holds
a huge power in their hands.
At this point, the following question arises: how is it possible that persons who
have achieved the top (have become ‘excellent’) so frequently forget the ‘auxil-
iary characteristics’ that helped them to obtain prestigious positions? In their
autobiographies13
and auto-presentations (e.g. interviews with Nobel Prize win-
ners in the press), we almost always read only about scientific components of
their success, nothing about the social side of their excellent trajectory, such as
networking or other phenomena discussed above. Nothing about the production
of excellence… In such accounts of successful people, we also rarely read about
personal and emotional costs related to the process of becoming excellent. Only
the scientific side of the trajectory is shown and yet, knowing the importance of
non-scientific factors in scientific careers, we realize that we have learned only a
little about it.
Here, the concept of the ‘collective lie’ becomes useful. It was created by Sayad
(1999), and originally refers to migrants’ experiences. Sayad analyzed processes
of collective lying by emigrants who, back home to see their family for a summer
break, lie about their work and life conditions in the destination country. This
collective lie phenomenon helps people to persuade about their success, to keep
their face and dignity, where in reality they experience unpleasant and difficult
situations. For scientists, such a collective lie will consist of passing over and
forgetting the costs that they are supposed to pay in the process of becoming
excellent. This is why we have so much difficulty learning from successful people
about true social aspects of the process of producing excellence. This is their
secret, and it can be broken only by sociologists. The most important part of my
job has consisted in this: raising the curtain of the collective lie about this social
(and not exactly scientific) process – the production of excellence.
13	 I am referring to a lecture conducted by Christophe Brochier that took place in the
Institute of Sociology, University of Warsaw, on 4th
May 2015. The quoted paper will
be a chapter in our common (upcoming) book, Looking in the Mirror – Sociologists
and their Careers, which is devoted to scholarly careers of sociologists.
Sociology of excellence(s) in the knowledge society 127
Acknowledgements
I would like to thank Agata Czarnacka for her support and English language cor-
rections, as well as for the editing work. I am deeply grateful to Maria Załęska for
her inspiring advice and corrections that certainly improved this article.
References
Abbott, A; Cyranoski, D; Jones, N; Maher, B; Schiermeier, Q; Van Noorden, R.
2010. “Metrics: Do metrics matter?” Nature (465), 860–862.
Becker, H. S. 1963. Outsiders. Studies in the Sociology of Deviance. New York: The
Free Press of Glencoe.
Becker, H. S.; Geer, B.; Hughes, E. C.; Strauss, A. L. 1961. Boys in White. Student
Culture in Medical School. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Bourdieu, P. 1966. The State Nobility: Elite Schools in the Field of Power. Redwood
City, CA.: Stanford University Press.
Bourdieu, P.; Passeron, J.-C. 1979. The Inheritors. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.
Chapoulie, J.-M. 2001. La tradition sociologique de Chicago. Paris: Seuil.
Cole, S. 1979. “Age and Scientific Performance” American Journal of Sociology 84
(4), 958–977.
Cole, S.; Cole, J. R. 1967. “Scientific output and recognition: a study in the op-
eration of the reward system in science.” American Sociological Review (32),
377–390.
Cole, S.; Zuckerman, H. 1984. “The Productivity Puzzle: Persistence and Change
in Patterns of Publication of Men and Women Scientists.” In P. Maehr; M. W.
Steinkamp (eds.) Advances in Motivation and Achievement. Greenwich: JAI
Press, 239–258.
Czachorowski, S. 2014. “Rywalizacja a sprawa uniwersyteckiej punktozy.” Blog
http://czachorowski.blox.pl/2014/10/Grywalizacja-a-sprawa-uniwersyteckiej
-punktozy.html
Delamont, S.; Atkinson, P. 2001. “Doctoring Uncertainty: Mastering Draft Knowl-
edge.” Social Study of Science 31 (1), 87–107.
Durkheim, E. [1928] 1956. Socialism and Saint-Simon. Transl. C. Sattler. London:
Routledge and Kegan Paul Ltd.
Flaherty, C. 2015. The Costs of Publish or Perish, Inside Higher ED. Accessible
online: https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2015/10/12/study-suggests-
pressure-publish-impedes-innovation?utm_content=buffer88760&utm_
medium=social&utm_source=facebook&utm_campaign=IHEbuffer
Izabela Wagner
128
Fleck, L. [1935] 1979. The Genesis and Development of a Scientific Fact. Edited by
T. J. Trenn and R. K. Merton, foreword by Thomas Kuhn. Chicago: University
of Chicago Press.
Gardner, J. W. 1961. Excellence − Can we be equal and excellent too? New York:
Harper and Brothers, Publishers.
Glaser, B. G. 1964a. “Comparative failure in science.” Science 143, 1012–1014.
Glaser, B. G. 1964b. Organizational Scientists: their professional careers. Indian-
apolis – New York – Kansas City: The Bobbs-Merrill Company.
Hermanowicz, J. C. 1998. The Stars are not Enough-Scientists – Their Passions and
Professions. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Hughes, E. Ch. 1945. “Dilemmas and contradictions of status.” American Journal
of Sociology 50 (5), 353–359.
Kuhn, T. S. 1962. The structure of scientific revolutions. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Lamont, M. 2009. How Professors Think. Inside the Curious World of Academic
Judgment. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
MacIntyre, A. 1981. After Virtue. Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame Press.
Mauss,M.1920.Lanation.Availableon:http://classiques.uqac.ca/classiques/mauss_
marcel/oeuvres_3/oeuvres_3_14/la_nation.html. Last accessed 29.12.2015.
Merton, R. K. 1973. “Recognition and Excellence. Instructive Ambiguities.”
[1st
publication in A. Yarmolinsky (ed.) 1960. Recognition of Excellence. New
York: The Free Press]. New edition in Merton, R. K. The Sociology of Sci-
ence. Theoretical and Empirical Investigations. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press, 419–438.
Merton, R. 1988. “The Matthew Effect in Science, II Cumulative Advantage and
the Symbolism of Intellectual Property.” ISIS (79), 606–623.
Morawska, E. 2009. “Badania nad imigracją/etnicznością w Europie i Stanach
Zjednoczonych. Analiza porównawcza.” Studia Migracyjne − Przegląd Polonij-
ny (1), 7–26. Available on: http://www.kbnm.pan.pl/images/stories/artykuly/
Morawska-artykul-2009-Nr1.pdf
Paradeise, C.; de Thoenig, J.-C. 2011. “Réformes et ordres universitaires locaux.”
In G. Felouzis and S. Hanhart (eds.) Gouverner l’éducation par les nombres?
Usages, débats et controverses. Bruxelles: Éditions de Boeck, 33–52.
Pontille, D. 2004. La signature scientifique. Une sociologie pragmatique de l’at-
tribution. Paris: CNRS Editions.
Rawat, S.; Meena, S. 2014. “Where are we heading?.” Journal of Research in Medical
Sciences 19 (2), 87–89.
Sociology of excellence(s) in the knowledge society 129
Reader, W. J. 1967. Professional Men: The Rise of the Professional Classes in Nine-
teenth Century England. New York: Basic Books.
Ricoeur, P. 1992. Oneself as Another. Chicago and London: University of Chicago
Press.
Sayad, A. 1999. La double absence. Des illusions de l’émigré aux souffrances de
l’immigré. Paris: Le Seuil. 
Simmel, G.; Hughes, E. Ch. 1949. “The Sociology of Sociability.” American Journal
of Sociology 55 (3), 254–261.
Stephan, P. 2012. How economics shape science. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Uni-
versity Press.
Traweek, S. 1988. Beamtimes and Lifetimes: The World of High Energy Physicists.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Wagner, A.-C. 1995. Le jeu du national et de l’international. Les cadres etrangers
en France. (PhD thesis). EHESS: Paris.
Wagner, I. 2006. “Career Coupling: Career Making in the Elite World of Musi-
cians and Scientists.” Qualitative Sociology Review II (3). Available on: http://
www.qualitativesociologyreview.org /ENG/archive_eng.php. Last accessed
28.05.2015.
Wagner, I. 2011. Becoming Transnational Professional. Kariery i mobilność polskich
elit naukowych. Warszawa: Wydawnictwo Naukowe Scholar.
Wagner, I. 2014. “Works and career aspects of ghetto laboratories.” In Pripic K.;
vanan der Weijden I.; Ashuelova N. (eds.) Re-searching Scientific Careers. In-
stitute for the History of Science and Technology: St. Petersburg. 145–170.
Available on: http://ihst.nw.ru/images/books%20in%20pdf/
Wagner, I. 2015. Producing Excellence. The Making of Virtuosos. New Brunswick.
NJ.: Rutgers University Press.
Wallernstein, I. 1974. The modern world-system. Vol. I: Capitalist agriculture and
the origins of the European world-economy in the sixteenth century. New York –
London: Academic Press.
Young, M. W. 2004. Malinowski: odyssey of an anthropologist, 1884–1920. New
Haven: Yale University Press.
Zuckerman, H. 1977. Scientific Elite: Nobel Laureates in the United States. New
York: The Free Press.
III.  Rhetoric in academic settings
Katarzyna Molek-Kozakowska
University of Opole
The rhetoric of research reports in the
humanities: Paradoxes of exigence
Abstract: The chapter shows how scholars construct the rhetorical exigence of their re-
ports. The author identifies a set of conventional motives that academics typically use
to explain what made them write a scientific text. An in-depth study of these rhetorical
moves unveils some complex relationships between humanities and the current knowledge
hegemonies.
1. Introduction
To start on a personal note, this is a fragment of a review I received when I subjected
my language-oriented study of a sample of popular mediated texts I collected for
over a year. It was forwarded to me by the editors of a mid-ranking journal (ac-
cording to Thomson-Reuters JCR) in social sciences which professed itself to be
interdisciplinary:
The motivation for this particular study is unclear and therefore the exigence for this
particular article is unclear. Is there a ‘gap’ exigence related to the absence of studies
of [this area]? Is there a particular exigence related to [the material studied]? (…) The
issue of (…) is raised but that issue does not seem to have been a motive for the study
as designed and presented. Some compelling explanation of why this particular study
was done is needed.
Although it was entirely constructive and helpful, the referee’s report explicitly
required me to specify the exigence and reveal the motivation for my study. Given
my cultural background, I felt a bit uneasy at the thought of having to spell out
how significant my findings were, or how well they completed the scholarly land-
scape in mass-mediated communication studies in order to convince my peers
that it should be published. My academic experience so far has been that appro-
priately done research that gives new knowledge and helps explain an important
phenomenon does not have to be ‘promoted’.
This chapter is devoted to some paradoxes arising in the institutional context of
academic publishing in the humanities, particularly in the case of research reports.
As is commonly accepted, academic discourse is a specific “order of discourse”
that has its own rules, resources, gate-keeping mechanisms and a community of
Katarzyna Molek-Kozakowska
134
practice that reproduces it (cf. Fairclough 1993; Foucault 1970). Alternatively, it
can be perceived as a self-legitimizing social field founded on the idea of progress
(Bourdieu 1975). However, academic discourse can no longer be treated as a uni-
form order of discourse when the academy itself has become fragmented through
division into ever more specialized fields and disciplines. Is it feasible to assume
that nuclear scientists and geneticists apply the same rhetorical means of com-
municating their research findings as historians and literary critics? To determine
these findings, we can analyze a macro-domain with the same academic under-
pinnings, and we could claim that disciplinary approaches should share the same
level of commitment to originality, enhancement of knowledge and standards of
scientific exposition, but the very details of the sequence of presentation, rhetori-
cal strategies and textual choices might, indeed, differ significantly. According
to MacDonald (1994: 4), “academic texts mainly will reflect knowledge-making
activities specific to disciplinary fields,” and linguistic and rhetorical issues of aca-
demic presentation will overlap with issues that are epistemological or ideological.
Thus, in this chapter, I accept the assumption that within the order of academic
publishing, we can identify multiple discourses of ‘the scientific method’ with
their competing representations of ‘proper science’ (cf. Kuhn 1962; Mercer 2002).
Throughout much of the 1980s and 1990s, scholars with a background in phi-
losophy, sociology and rhetoric have spotlighted many of these diverse disciplinary
knowledge-producing and meaning-making strategies applied by publishing scien-
tists (Bazerman 1988; Brodkey 1987; Knorr-Cetina 1991; Latour 1987; Nash 1990;
Porter 1995; Swales 1990). Newer studies have mapped the inventories of styles
and rhetorical properties of most scientific (sub)registers including academic prose
(cf. Biber 1988, 2006; Conrad and Biber 2001; Hyland 2000). Such multidimensional
analyses have related the contextual factors of discursive encounters (production
circumstances, purposes, modes, involvement strategies) with typical linguistic vari-
ables realizing them. According to Conrad (2001: 106–107), they proved invaluable
from the pedagogical point of view of curriculum design and the preparation of
ESP/EAP materials, teaching aids and learning activities for appropriate academic
writing and reading skills (cf. Swales 2005; Swales and Feak 2009).
In the recent years, however, the trends towards globalization, as in many other
spheres of life, have had to exert their influence in the sphere of academic pub-
lishing as well. The problem explored here is the case when the expectations with
respect to academic writing that are conventionalized within one culture, domain
and discipline are being overgeneralized to apply to most, if not all disciplines
(for a discussion of similar instances of interdiscursivity working across humani-
ties and strict sciences, on the one hand, and across science and social domains,
on the other hand, see, respectively, Plantin and Kowalski this volume). This is
The rhetoric of research reports in the humanities 135
what, according to Perez-Llantada (2012: 19), is currently happening to scientific
discourse in the era of globalization. The drive towards creating a global collabora-
tive science community endorsed by powerful research sponsoring organizations
and countries has resulted in privileging the conventions of hard sciences and the
rhetorical tradition of the Anglo-American culture that constitute the hegemony
of ‘knowledge-intensive economies.’
This chapter gives an overview of these globalizing trends before spotlighting
some of the paradoxes that arise from this process when it comes to publishing
research reports in the humanities, particularly when authors are urged to present
their studies as exigent. It then illustrates how authors (representing different
backgrounds but writing in English) in the humanities tend to navigate around
competing representations of the scientific method and how they negotiate the
exigencies of their humanistic approaches in their claim to science. The illustrative
material is taken from an exploratory analysis of 47 abstracts of research reports
published in Discourse and Communication (an interdisciplinary impact-factor
journal that aims to integrate language-oriented studies and social research on
communication) between 2014 and 2015.
2.  The rhetorical aspects of production of academic knowledge
As documented by Perez-Llantada (2012: 23–27), the overall trend within knowl-
edge-intensive economies is towards reducing the disciplinary fragmentation and
facilitating knowledge sharing, collaboration and networking. Indeed, the pro-
moters of the European Research Area and the European Research Council, not
to mention numerous national agencies, stress the role of international exchange
and sponsor building pan-European research infrastructures. The main venues
for a global sharing of produced knowledge and research results are academic
journals, where quality research is reported, via the genre of research reports
(i.e., research articles).
The quantity and excellence of research output has started to be indexed and
measured with ever-more refined bibliometric tools, such as Web-of-Science
based, impact-factor monitoring Thomson-Reuter’s Science Citation Index Ex-
panded (SCIE) or Social Science Citation Index (SSCI), for example, not to men-
tion multiple free bibliometric applications (Google Scholar, Publish or Perish).
Needless to say, the standardized benchmarking and evaluation tools have been
criticized across disciplinary domains, particularly as they have put humanistic
scholarship at a disadvantage (see also Wagner this volume). The main arguments
against them are that they hierarchize science disciplines, introduce the hegemony
Katarzyna Molek-Kozakowska
136
of English as a vehicle of knowledge-transfer and assume the supremacy of Anglo-
American rhetorical and cultural tradition of ‘writing up’ science.
On the one hand, to enjoy the progress installed by a globalized knowledge-
sharing research community, some standardization of research output is neces-
sary; on the other hand, the pressures involved in publishing in English-language,
impact-factor, indexed journals may have shifted the academic priorities in some
cases from ‘doing quality research’ to ‘selling research as a quality product.’ Another
problem, raised by Ferguson (2007), for example, is the issue of growing linguistic
inequality when it comes to non-native English scholars and authors, often social-
ized into different scholarly practices and rhetorical conventions, following their
culture-specific intellectual styles of exposition and composition, or even inhibited
by their cultural norms from self-promoting (cf. Clyne 1996; Cortese and Duszak
2005; Coulmas 2007). For example, according to researchers within the tradition of
contrastive rhetoric, conventions of argumentation in English composition tend to
make more use of facts, statistics and illustrations, with other cultures applying more
analogies, references to the classics, even intuitions and linguistic resources for argu-
ments. Kaplan (1966: 10) notes that the notion of ‘evidence’ is culture-specific, even
though it is a fundamental notion in academic publishing. Rhetorical variability in
academic texts has been found in the use of lexemes that inscribe or evoke attitude
and stance, metalinguistic expressions, complexity of structure, epistemic modality
(the degree of commitment to truth of the proposition), hedging and (in)directness
patterns (Hyland 2000; Mauranen 1993; Perez-Llantada 2012).
Despite attested text-linguistic variability in academic presentation across cul-
tures and disciplinary contexts, there are some common rhetorical techniques to
resort to when the notion of ‘the scientific’ is involved. Mercer (2002), for example,
traces the diverse techniques used by scholars to make a claim to science, to assert
the scientific nature of their studies and to ratify their own discipline as a scientific
domain. The exploratory articles constructing ‘a science of x’ tend to, according to
Mercer (2002: 209–215), frame the problem as an important object of study, pre-
sent evidence and anticipate objections by trying to discredit them, and organize
the text to direct readers to accept certain arguments while blocking others. The
usual tendency is to cite scientific studies from neighboring disciplines and dem-
onstrating their relevance. In such cases, stress is put on the quantitative results,
statistical significance and methodological accuracy of the studies referred to.
Apart from the use of technicalities, he found such ‘rhetorical’ devices as declara-
tory statements with little or no acknowledgement of competing views, or appeals
to logic, evidentiality or authority understood as trustworthiness of individuals
and institutions that have already established their ethos. Interestingly, in physi-
cal sciences the argument about what is natural or unnatural is used to warrant
The rhetoric of research reports in the humanities 137
the introduction of normative statements. Sometimes arguments of ignorance or
simplifications are deployed to legitimize a new scientific field. Popular science
‘tropes,’ such as listing of ‘basic facts,’ recurrent references to ‘social relevance’
of the issue as well as (misleading) analogies between the scientific mechanisms
and ‘everyday life’ examples, may also be found. And, yet, modern institutions of
science are rarely open-minded about the primarily rhetorical construction and
legitimization of ‘the scientific method’ (on the rhetorical structuring of science,
see esp. Plantin this volume). The implicit normative assumptions and institu-
tional practices are not questioned or problematized (cf. Irwin and Wynne 1996
on the problems and inadequacies in the uptake of ‘scientific’ knowledge in the
public sphere). The specific academic practice spotlighted here is the requirement
to explicitly self-promote in a research report by constructing/articulating the
(multiple) exigencies of the study.
3. 
Rhetorical exigence in academic publishing
To analyze how research reports are strategically framed as persuasion to be ac-
cepted for publication, I will refer to Bitzer’s (1968) concept of the rhetorical
situation. Despite the fact that his approach has been critiqued, I find his notion
of exigence particularly inspiring in the context of this study, as it provides a
framework for thinking how the multiple aspects of doing (contextual) and writ-
ing up (textual) scientific reports intersect and inform each other.
Bitzer (1968: 6) explains the idea of the rhetorical situation “as a complex of
persons, events, objects, and relations presenting an actual or potential exigence
which can be completely or partially removed if discourse, introduced into the
situation, can so constrain human decision or action as to bring about the sig-
nificant modification of the exigence.” In particular, rhetorical situations may be
defined as the contexts of a rhetorical act that consists of three elements, including
an exigence, an audience and constraints. It can be assumed that not all writ-
ing arising in the academia imposes the same demands for publication: obvious
breakthrough studies almost self-evidently make the headlines, but mundane
studies in ‘normal science’ (Kuhn 1962) have to have their exigencies constructed.
According to Bitzer (1968: 6), an exigence is “an imperfection marked by ur-
gency; it is a defect, an obstacle, something waiting to be done, a thing which is
other than it should be.” Exigence is thus a problem (a publishing decision on a
manuscript) that can technically be solved by persuasive discourse. Obviously, not
all exigencies are rhetorical, particularly in the case of problems that cannot be
modified, or can be modified by means that are not rhetorical (e.g., if there is no
research done, there is no publication of a research report). For Bizter (1968: 7), “an
Katarzyna Molek-Kozakowska
138
exigence is rhetorical when it is capable of positive modification and when positive
modification requires discourse or can be assisted by discourse.” In our context,
the exigence may be in creating the awareness of relevance or positive evaluation
by editor/reviewer, leading to the conclusion that the text merits publication.
The second component of rhetorical situation is the audience. Bitzer (1968: 8)
precisely defines what he means by the term ‘rhetorical audience’ which consists
only of persons who are capable of being ‘mediators of change.’ In Bitzer’s point of
view, rhetorical audience is a group of people who have the power to modify the
exigence (e.g., if they are not empowered to make a decision about the manuscript,
they do not qualify as an author’s rhetorical audience).14
Finally, the last compo-
nent of a rhetorical situation is its constraints. Bitzer (1968: 8) states that “besides
exigence and audience, every rhetorical situation contains a set of constraints
made up of persons, events, objects, and relations which are parts of the situation
because they have the power to constrain decision and action needed to modify
the exigence.” In other words, constraints mean all kinds of boundaries that limit
decisions and action. Bitzer divides constraints into two types: artistic and in-
artistic proofs. The first one includes constraints that are created by the author
(here, for example, a lack of awareness that explicit self-promotion is mandatory,
a lack of English rhetorical skills), while the second one means constraints that are
originated from the situation that may involve beliefs, attitudes, documents, facts,
traditions, images, interests, or motives (here, for example, the scope of research
report versus the scope and aim of the journal).
4.  Introductory sections and exigence of research reports
The seminal book by Swales (1990) on the generic structures of academic writ-
ing revealed and cemented some of the tacit assumptions about how academic
papers ought to be composed and written. From the perspective of the present
study, it is important to explore how the guiding principles of academic writing
have been shaped for the purpose of engendering exigence in research reports. It
can be generally assumed that in the basic IMRD (introduction, method, results,
discussion) generic schema15
for the research report, the exigence will be signaled
14	 However, after publication, readers become the rhetorical audience, as they can be
persuaded to take up the author’s findings, and cite them, and thus help forward the
author’s academic career.
15	 The research article is a specific narrative since the 19th
century that has settled into
the following predictable format: “an introduction that convinces the audience that
the events related are worthwhile and novel, methods and results that lay these events
The rhetoric of research reports in the humanities 139
in the introduction, and then probably demonstrated fully in the discussion (with
papers’ overarching abstracts and conclusions being largely reverberations of the
exigencies created in these two sections of the report). Indeed, Swales’ postu-
lated rhetorical ‘moves’ in the introductory section include: (1) creating centrality,
which is arguing for the importance of current work; (2) building a scaffolding,
which is reviewing previous related work; (3) identifying a gap or a missing part
of the knowledge of the issue, an under-researched area, and (4) demonstrating
how the present study addresses that missing element and fills the gap. It is clear
that all the moves may be the sites for articulating/creating exigence of a given
study. How exactly this is being done rhetorically (particularly by humanistic
scholars facing certain paradoxes) is demonstrated below.
Some exploratory work on how writers in science, technology, engineering
and mathematics (STEM) frame their research as exigent has been done by Walsh
(2010). Her study applies a typology of rhetorical moves to express exigence by
means of topoi, which, I assume, are more likely to be applied in the conventional
structure of research report’s introduction than freshly developed arguments.
Walsh shows how Aristotle’s 28 classical koinoi topoi (Aristotle Topica, edition
1960 and The “Art” of Rhetoric, edition 1975) and some new maneuvers (e.g., ‘con-
sensus,’ ‘unification’) are deployed in research reports. When taken as a corpus,
the topoi represent “three overarching argument or reasoning types: comparative,
concerned with difference and identity; dimensional, concerned with continuities
and relative positions along continua; and causal, concerned with antecedence and
consequence” (Walsh 2010: 126, emphasis mine). Walsh’s analysis is not restricted
to introductory sections, but she finds that STEM introductions are “heavy on
dimensional reasoning” and that the routine application of Swales’ ‘moves’ is con-
firmed in her corpus (Walsh 2010: 148). Although comparative topoi (particularly
opposites and precedents) happened to occur in introductions, and so did a causal
topos of purpose is cause, the most common introduction topoi were dimensional
(or hybrid) and included: degree (‘more/most,’ ‘better/best,’ ‘increasing’ and other
expressions of scale and rank), search for a better plan (‘to overcome,’ ‘to improve’),
previous mistakes (‘unfortunately,’ ‘without,’ ‘limited’), consensus (common knowl-
edge, premise), and unification (finding similarities in unrelated phenomena/
theories/approaches; making visible the unnoticed relation; Walsh 2010: 143).
out iconically in terms of time and cause/effect, and finally a conclusion that demon-
strates how the novel findings relate to a pattern the audience already knew – either
by extending it or breaking it” (Walsh 2010: 142; cf. Bazerman 1988).
Katarzyna Molek-Kozakowska
140
I refer to these findings to trace which topoi tend to be applied to present discourse
and communication related research as exigent.
5.  Paradoxes of exigence
Much of what has been reviewed and consulted above relates to studies of scientific
communication across disciplines, or specifically within physical/natural sciences
including medicine, engineering and technology. However, with the globalization
trends in science communication demonstrated earlier, this scholarship might be-
come relevant with respect to publishing in the humanities as well: with the intro-
duction of standardized formats of research reports (complete with mandatory
sections, e.g., IMRD, and word limits), and with the requirements to follow the
predictable moves in framing the research and demonstrating its exigence. However,
adopting the standards in the humanities has not been unproblematic, as several
paradoxes may come to the surface, which I summarize below considering the
arguments presented in the previous sections (this list will be referred to in the
subsequent analysis):
1.	 A paradox of disinterested knowledge advancement confronted with the pres-
sure to publish in high-ranking journals to have access to funding, to self-
promote and elevate the status of the affiliated institution;
2.	A paradox of hard-science-derived markers of ‘scientific method’ required
to be applied in the humanities, with quantitative methodologies displacing
hermeneutic methods, and with broader surveys of a phenomenon favored
over deeper understanding of a phenomenon;
3.	 A paradox of provisional or local knowledge (or a motivation for a particular/
unique/subjective perspective used) having to be presented as factual, objective,
generalizable (or replicable/verifiable) resulting in the diminished presence of
the author’s voice for the sake of projecting the ‘data as speaking for themselves’;
4.	 A paradox of demonstrating applicability, relevance and use of research results to
solve everyday problems (see also Kowalski this volume), which is alien to most
humanistic disciplines that do not aim at providing functional applications;
5.	 A paradox of having to conform to standard formats, conventionalized ‘moves’
and predictable patterns (of English-language, Anglo-American rhetorical tra-
dition) in writing (1) even if investigating non-native English cultural/linguis-
tic/literary issues, and (2) where previously it was ‘standing out,’ not ‘fitting in,’
that marked the excellence of research in the humanities.
My claim in this chapter is that researchers in the humanities have been pres-
sured to start accommodating the conflicting, even paradoxical, requirements of
The rhetoric of research reports in the humanities 141
the globalized academic knowledge-sharing practices (cf. the personal example
in this introduction). I aim to illustrate this with a pilot analysis of how authors
(representing different backgrounds but writing in English, who do research on
language, discourse and communication) tend to navigate around these compet-
ing conceptions of ‘the scientific method’ and how they negotiate the exigencies
of their approaches in their claim to ‘doing science.’
6.  An illustration
The illustrative material for this analysis is taken from 47 abstracts of all the
research reports published in Discourse and Communication in 2014 and 2015.
DCM is an interdisciplinary impact-factor journal that aims to integrate language-
oriented studies and social research on (mediated) communication.
The choice of abstract (rather than introduction) is motivated by the recent rise
in significance of abstracting and indexing of research articles for the purposes of as-
sessing the research output in the humanities. I would claim that the limited space of
the abstract imposes even higher demands on the authors to demonstrate/construct
the exigence of their paper. All abstracts that are excerpted here are anonymized
(and treated as sampled textual material rather than authored work). Their full ver-
sions are freely available at http://dcm.sagepub.com/. The gathered abstracts vary
in length between 70 and 250 words. They have been authored by researchers of
as diverse backgrounds as Argentina, Australia, China, France, Finland, Israel, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Africa,
the UK and the USA. The strategies for creating exigence are identified, categorized,
illustrated and discussed with respect to how the authors tend to maneuver around
paradoxical expectations.
6.1  Novelty coming from change
One of the most prominent strategies of creating exigence in the sample is stress-
ing the fact that due to rapid technological changes, unforeseen events or social
transformations in a given country or sphere of life, communication practices and
language patterns have also undergone radical changes and that justifies studying
them. Note the following examples (all subsequent emphases mine):
(1)	
As leadership discourses in higher education are increasingly being mediated on-
line, texts previously reserved for staff are now being made available in the public
domain. (…) Additionally, discourses previously confined to the written domain
are now increasingly multimodal. Thus, an approach is required that is capable of
relating detailed, complex multimodal discourse analyses to broader sociocultural
Katarzyna Molek-Kozakowska
142
perspectives to account for the complex meaning-making practices that operate in
online leadership discourses.
(2)	This article presents an overview of the transition that has taken place in Arab media
over the course of time. It focuses more specifically on the case of Saudi Arabia to
show how television interviewers there have performed their roles throughout three
different phases. The first phase covers the period when the media was still controlled
by Arab governments, the second focuses on the advent of satellite and the third
focuses on the aftermath of the recent series of uprisings which has become known
as the Arab Spring.
(3)	There is an increasing recognition internationally of the critical impact of communica-
tion within healthcare.
(4)	This paper dissects how state media in China frame narratives and represent mean-
ings to construct national cultural identity in earthquake coverage.
(5)	
This study uses appraisal theory to investigate the media attitudinal variations in
the context of the recent 2013 air pollution incident in China. Drawing upon the ap-
praisal systems of attitude and engagement, this article examines how the reportage
has changed over time in terms of the type and source of attitude.
Such claims to exigence base on the assumption that change/transition in con-
textual factors causes a difference in textual practices, which creates the need not
only for new studies of these practices, but also for new methods to improve the
quality of the studies (see the use of “detailed,” “complex,” “broader,” and the use
of parallelisms that stress contrasts between “previously” and “now”). Similarly,
the topos of degree is invoked, with various expressions of scale and rank being
deployed, in order to explain why the intensification of a given communicative
phenomenon merits inquiry.
The very existence of new (usually elite) discourses (academic, leadership, polit-
ical, healthcare, media) or acknowledged transformation-inducing events in public
sphere (Arab Spring, an earthquake, an air pollution incident, a university reform)
is a justification for the need to attend to them. This could be seen as a maneuver
that helps scholars navigate around the third instance of paradoxical requirements
mentioned above, namely justifying humanistic research by demonstrating its rel-
evance: since given communication patterns exist, they should be urgently studied,
their mechanisms explained and their causes and effects understood.
6.2  Finding the gap in previous studies
Many authors attempt to contextualize their studies by referring to previous re-
search either to signal their ‘membership in a community of practice,’ or to create
exigence for their particular project. Sometimes the identification of a gap within
the pool of knowledge of the field is explicitly asserted and the shortage of research
condemned, which makes the need for the project self-evident. Sometimes, this
The rhetoric of research reports in the humanities 143
is done by implying (through presupposition) that previous studies were not, for
example, sufficiently ‘detailed’ or ‘exhaustive’ or interdisciplinary.
(6)	Critical evaluations of the current movement of corporate social responsibility (CSR)
commodification have neglected an important question: How do CSR professionals
manage the tensions resulting from the search for both profit and social responsibil-
ity? This article addresses this question by analyzing the discourse of CSR consultants.
(7)	
While previous studies have mostly explored the discourse of nuclear proliferation
through the analysis of newspaper texts, few have considered corpora from different
sites.
(8)	
While a number of studies have been conducted, to my knowledge no study has
compared university discourse and business discourse both synchronically and dia-
chronically.
(9)	
Although communities of practice have long been recognized as contexts for both
learning and the development of collegial relations, little attention has been paid to
micro-communities of knowledge.
(10)	
This study applies functional theory of campaign discourse proposed by William
Benoit for United States political debates and the theory of illocutions to the televised
governorship debate of Lagos State. As opposed to other studies that have applied it to
the United States, Finland, etc. it applies this theory to an African (Nigerian) political
debate. It asserts as against others that candidates distinguish themselves from their
opponents using the major functions of campaign discourse in a reversed order.
(11)	
The study is novel in its exhaustive approach to identifying salient and underre-
ported issues related to Muslim women in news discourse. It also introduces a more
integrated analysis that combines manual and automated techniques and tackles the
quantification of qualitative results where possible.
These examples confirm the tendency to follow the guidelines for academic writ-
ing in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) disciplines by
pointing to precedents and oppositions. The topoi of searching for a better plan
(to “address,” to “consider,” to “integrate,” “to combine”), and of previous mistakes
(“little attention,” “neglected,” “few,” “no”) have been noticed in this sample as well.
This way of constructing exigence can be interpreted as an attempt by authors
to confront two paradoxes: the second one, where pressure is put on imitating
the procedures of explication and justification of research projects characteristic
of hard sciences (where progress is built by accumulating new studies rooted in
previous ones) and the fifth one, where having to conform to standard ‘moves’
and predictable patterns trumps individual freedom in the expression of exigence.
6.3  Stressing significance or impact
In some cases authors demonstrate how the discoveries they have made impact
other analysts, journal readers, broader publics, professional communicators and
Katarzyna Molek-Kozakowska
144
even whole societies, at least when it comes to the general awareness of the issue
they explore and the implied educational value of the discovery:
(12)	In uncovering how CSR professionals discursively manage the tensions engendered
by CSR commodification, our results also advance current knowledge of CSR by shed-
ding light on the underlying processes whereby new ‘hybrid’ identities are constituted
and mobilized.
(13)	Our findings point to the importance of proximity in environmental discourse and
to the need to examine not only what kinds of discourse circulate, but also how and
to whom.
(14)	These findings provide further evidence for the mediatization of everyday life, and
may have educational implications, which are discussed.
(15)	
In the end, we argue, the effect could very well be that the show does not promote
but rather – ironically – hinders LGB emancipation.
(16)	The semiotic texts analyzed communicate an overall transformative message by chal-
lenging the negative representations of Latin@s in the mainstream media (…) may
incite the audience to participate in activism that supports Latin@ immigrants in
the United States.
(17)	This helps to shape stakeholders’ concepts and expectations of higher education as
well as public attitudes towards the neoliberal knowledge-based market system more
broadly.
In the above examples, we can see how authors strive to demonstrate the relevance
and applicability of their findings (paradox 4). Another observation that can be
made here is the inclination to elevate the impact of one’s own study (paradox 1),
which leads to instrumentalizing it as a tool of self-promotion.
If we look at the sample as a whole, another salient pattern can also be spot-
ted in this context, namely that only a minority of the authors apply a ‘personal
voice’ when narrating their findings (2 cases of “I,” 8 of “we” – always in the case
of collective authorship), with a vast majority of abstracts written with the aid
of impersonal structures (e.g., in the passive voice). Mostly the results/findings/
analyses seem to ‘emerge’ as influential and significant. The third paradox, consist-
ing in presenting provisional or local knowledge as factual and self-evident, seems
to surface in these cases. Needless to say, significance and impact – the ingredients
of exigence – are mainly constructed rhetorically here.
6.4  Making a strong claim to science
As discourse and communication studies constitute a vast and diverse area of
research, it is worth considering how authors present their studies as objective,
valid, representative, replicable and methodologically accurate. Mostly they make
it expressly transparent which theories, approaches, perspectives they base on,
The rhetoric of research reports in the humanities 145
which concepts they adopt/adapt, how they operationalize their concepts to be
their analytic categories and which procedures they use to arrive at their results.
As quantitative, particularly statistical methods are highly appreciated, and as
large corpora of texts guarantee representativeness, it is more than likely that
authors who use them will raise this in their abstracts:
(18)	The results from 329 texting interactions showed that if responses to a request or
invitation were delayed by more than 1 minute, it was much more likely be a ‘no’
rather than a ‘yes’ response (p<0.001).
(19)	
This study applied discourse analysis to over 1500 publicly posted comments (…)
The Model of Normalized Hate Speech is presented here, in order to promote future
inquiry and understanding in this area.
(20)	The perspective of the research is interdisciplinary, its methodology is qualitative, and
the process guiding the textual analysis is inductive and hermeneutic. The corpus is
made up of the news related to the studied legislative process. The news analysis
was carried out according to the proposal of a Sociological and Linguistic Discourse
Analysis.
(21)	Analyzing in depth two ‘analogy affairs’ on the basis of a LexisNexis corpus: the 2002
Auschwitz-Saramago affair (64 items) and the 2006–2007 Apartheid-Carter affair
(154 items).
(22)	We examine 575 randomly selected articles on Zimbabwean immigrants from the
(SAM) database to expose discourses of exclusion.
(23)	Introducing the concept of Crisis Solution Marketing (CSM), this research explores
how metaphor pre-packages information (…). Results indicate a statistically signifi-
cant preference for The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal, liberally posi-
tioned newspapers, for animate-biological metaphors which promote understanding
of the stock market in terms of a living being.
(24)	This article uses a 36-million word corpus of news reporting on Hurricane Katrina
in the United States to explore how computer-based methods can help researchers
to investigate the construction of newsworthiness.
Obviously, there is nothing wrong about informing the readers about the analytic
choices taken in the course of the investigation. The problem begins, however,
when quantitative methods and corpus studies start to be perceived as the only
valid, or at least preferred, ways of analyzing discourse and communication. In-
cidentally, this can lead to the requirement that hard-science-derived markers of
‘the scientific method’ be applied uncritically in the humanities to make papers
qualify as publishable. The fear is that exigencies for hermeneutic methods, and
for a deeper understanding of a phenomenon are not as high as those for broader
surveys of communication-related phenomena (paradox 2). Arguably, scholars
wishing to primarily advance their career will follow this path (paradox 1).
Katarzyna Molek-Kozakowska
146
6.5  Offering recommendation (or warning)
It seems that the four first paradoxes are faced and strategically overcome if au-
thors conclude their abstract with a recommendation or a warning. For one,
they attempt to present their study as new knowledge that is valuable and can be
applied to solve problems. For another, they intimate that their results are valid
and solid enough, their methods accurate enough, their samples representative
enough, and the subject important enough to offer a relatively straightforward
recommendation:
(25)	
The article details strategies for interweaving medical knowledge and establishing
rapport that can inform practitioner communication practices across different health-
care contexts.
(26)	
This article concludes that an effective form of CDA would be one where different
forms of researcher expertise are carried out.
(27)	
When looking at social media reaction to such an event as this, analysts should
always consider the role that the press are playing in forming that discourse.
(28)	Hence there is a danger of SAM [South African Media] becoming unwitting convey-
ors of the same vices they preach against.
(29)	
At stake in this hearing is the construction of environmental or public health risk
and whether or not to permit hydrofracking.
Even though some of the recommendations feature hypothetical situations or
effects (see the use of “can,” “would be,” “should,” “whether or not”), they pro-
ject discourse and communication research as instrumental in preventing many
disadvantageous consequences, even averting wrongs. This way of construing
exigence is rhetorically potent, but relatively risky, as such emotion laden words
as “danger,” “effective,” “always,” “stake” could impress some editors or readers as
exaggerating the merits of the study.
6.6  Elaborating on the complexity of the issue
Another maneuver that is worth noting in this sample is the strategy of elaborat-
ing on the complexity of the object of study. By stressing the multidimensionality,
variety or multiplicity that is inherent in the phenomenon studied, authors de
facto raise the issue of exigence of such research in general and of their approach
in particular:
(30)	
The results of multimodal discourse analysis using digital technology can reveal
larger sociocultural patterns – in this case, divergent leadership styles and approaches
as reflected in online discourse, at a time of immense change within the higher educa-
tion sector.
The rhetoric of research reports in the humanities 147
(31)	
What is argued is that the acts and stances employed by team sports players can be
interpreted as indexing a media self, or media identity, one that professional team
sports players construct in order to strategically negotiate a public version of self.
(32)	The article concludes by arguing that despite being two distinct interactional con-
texts, the repertoire of relational skills required and the potential for social learning
through participation in these two kinds of communities renders them not only
complementary, but tightly interdependent.
In these, and some of the above examples (1, 11, 15), authors make use of the
topos of consensus in which certain common knowledge about the complexity
of communicative practices is taken as a premise to warrant this and further re-
search, while others try to make visible the unnoticed relations and connections
between diverse fields of knowledge, which is the topos of unification (finding
similarities in unrelated phenomena, theories, approaches, cf. Walsh 2010: 143).
Such a maneuver can add value and exigence to the study by enhancing it in
terms of originality, balance, theoretical sophistication, or interpretative depth.
This helps to confront the first paradox, where search for a better understanding
of a complex issue is foregrounded, and where the questions of researchers’ self-
interest are displaced.
6.7 Self-appraisal
A relatively transparent and less sophisticated maneuver of self-appraisal, even
though not that rare or ineffective in the context of contemporary academia, is
borrowed from promotional discourse (on ‘marketization’ and ‘commodification’
of science, see esp. Fairclough 1993: 207–210, 1999: 130–166, etc.). As our public
life is saturated with promotional messages, arguably, unabashed positive self-
evaluation of one’s study no longer strikes us as inappropriate:
(33)	
This article raises the important question as to why cooking, a seemingly mundane
practice, performs social and cultural functions.
(34)	Especially notable are the discursive practices of reported speech and metadiscourse
in these accounting sequences.
(35)	
Detailed discourse analysis of television-based interactions from an ethnographic,
child-centered perspective reveals the enduring centrality of television.
(36)	
By integrating theories about inquiry, discourse analysis, gender, and sociolinguis-
tics, the article makes an important contribution to the growing literature on con-
temporary discourse in the media.
Even if they can be found as problematic in some cultures, such statements reflect
the authors’ need to maneuver around the paradox of disinterested knowledge
transmission and self-promotion, as well as around the paradox of wanting to
stand out (even if only with individual stylistic choices) in the sea of similar, highly
Katarzyna Molek-Kozakowska
148
conventionalized abstracts published almost on a daily basis in the discipline of
discourse and communication.
7. Conclusion
In this chapter, I focus on how academic writing, particularly research report-
ing, has been subjected to the ‘commodifying’ practices that follow from recent
trends in producing and sharing scientific knowledge globally. In a pursuit for a
better ranking publication opportunity, researchers and authors have been pres-
sured to embrace the web-of-science-based bibliometric indexes of ‘excellence’
and ‘impact,’ the hegemony of the English language, and the dominance of the
western rhetorical tradition. Embracing them has incurred additional paradoxes
in the case of scholars in the humanities, as it forced them to navigate around
conflicting interests and priorities, and to negotiate their own research exigencies
and expository conventions.
The illustrative material gathered for this study shows how some authors in the
humanities manage to address the complex and contradictory demands imposed
by the increasingly globalized academic publishing ‘industry.’ I have identified
several patterns of articulating/constructing exigence (understood as an aspect of
the rhetorical situation that requires explicit discursive intervention in the form of
formulating why the report is worth publishing). My contention is that exigence
in research reports is likely to be (1) signaled in introductory sections (nowadays
notably also in abstracts), (2) verbalized explicitly rather than presupposed or
intimated, and (3) realized in predictable, even scripted, ways (specifically by
strategic ‘moves’ or pre-constructed topoi). Given that, I have classified and exem-
plified the dominant patterns of rhetorical framing of research in Discourse and
Communication. The following strategies for articulating/creating exigence have
been identified: (1) signaling the novelty of the proposed approach due to ensuing
social/technological change; (2) demonstrating the inadequacy of previous studies
or a research gap in a field; (3) stressing the significance of the study and its impact
on large populations; (4) putting forth recommendations for future solutions
and claiming to inspire further studies; (5) making a claim to scientific validity
and representativeness; (6) underlining the complexity of the issue that requires
more scrutiny; and (7) deploying self-appraisal devices. Although some strate-
gies are relatively transparent or show how authors imitate the conventionalized
practices of ‘more highly ranked’ STEM disciplines, I have noticed that scholars
in the humanities have to maneuver around radically contradictory requirements
of their disciplinary domain. As a result, they have developed subtler and more
rhetorically charged strategies for articulating/constructing the exigencies of their
The rhetoric of research reports in the humanities 149
reports. This could be interpreted as an individual’s ‘defense mechanism’ or a
larger process of the community’s ‘evolutionary accommodation’ to the circum-
stances of the world in which you either ‘publish or perish.’
References
Aristotle. Edition 1960. Topica. Transl. E.S. Forster. Loeb Classical Library. Cam-
bridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Aristotle. Edition 1975. The “Art” of Rhetoric. Transl. J. H. Freese. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press.
Biber, D. 1988. Variation across Speech and Writing. Cambridge, MA: Cambridge
University Press.
Biber, D. 2006. University Language: A Corpus-based Study of Spoken and Written
Registers. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Bazerman, Ch. 1988. Shaping Written Knowledge. Madison WI: University of
Wisconsin Press.
Bitzer, L. F. 1968. “The Rhetorical Situation.” Philosophy and Rhetoric (1), 1–14.
Bourdieu, P. 1975. “The Specificity of the Scientific Field and the Social Conditions
of the Progress of Reason.” Social Science Information (14), 19–47.
Brodkey, L. 1987. Academic Writing as a Social Practice. Philadelphia: Temple
University Press.
Clyne, M. 1996. Inter-cultural Communication at Work: Cultural Values in Dis-
course. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Conrad, S. 2001. “Variation among Disciplinary Texts: A Comparison of Text-
books and Journal Articles in Biology and History.” In S. Conrad and D. Biber
(eds.) Variation in English: Multi-Dimensional Studies. Harlow: Pearson Edu-
cation, 94–214.
Conrad, S. and Biber, D. (eds.) 2001. Variation in English: Multi-Dimensional
Studies. Harlow: Pearson Education.
Cortese, G. and Duszak, A. (eds.) 2005. Identity, Community, Discourse: English
in Intercultural Settings. Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Coulmas, F. (ed.) 2007. Language Regimes in Transformation. Future Prospects for
German and Japanese in Science, Economy and Politics. The Hague: Mouton
de Gruyter.
Fairclough, N. 1993. Discourse and Social Change. Cambridge: Polity Press.
Fairclough, N. 1999. Critical Discourse Analysis. The Critical Study of Language.
London and New York: Longman.
Katarzyna Molek-Kozakowska
150
Ferguson, G. 2007. “The Global Spread of English, Scientific Communication
and ESP: Questions of Equity, Access and Domain Loss.” Iberica (13), 7–38.
Foucault, M. 1970. The Order of Things: An Archeology of Human Sciences. Ran-
dom House: New York.
Hyland, K. 2000. Disciplinary Discourses: Social Interactions in Academic Writing.
Harlow: Pearson Education.
Irwin, A.; Wynne, B. (eds.) 1996. Misunderstanding Science? The Public Recon-
struction of Science and Technology. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Kaplan, R. 1966. “Cultural Thought Patterns in Intercultural Communication.”
Language Learning 16 (1), 1–20.
Knorr-Cetina, K. 1991. The Manufacture of Knowledge: An Essay on the Construc-
tivist and Contextual Nature of Science. Oxford: Pergamon Press.
Kuhn, T. 1962. The Structure of Scientific Revolutions. Chicago: University of Chi-
cago Press.
Latour, B. 1987. Science in Action. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
MacDonald, S. P. 1994. Professional and Academic Writing in the Humanities and
Social Sciences. Carbondale, IL: Southern Illinois University Press.
Mauranen, A. 1993. Cultural Differences in Academic Rhetoric. Frankfurt am
Main: Peter Lang.
Mercer, D. 2002. “Scientific Method Discourses in the Construction of ‘EMF
Science’.” Social Studies of Science 32 (2), 205–233.
Nash, W. (ed.) 1990. The Writing Scholar: Studies in Academic Discourse. Newbury
Park, CA: Sage.
Perez-Llantada, C. 2012. Scientific Discourse and the Rhetoric of Globalization.
London: Bloomsbury.
Porter, T. 1995. Trust in Numbers: The Pursuit of Objectivity in Science and Public
Life. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Swales, J. 1990. Genre Analysis: English in Academic and Research Settings. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
Swales, J. 2005. Research Genres: Explorations and Applications. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Swales, J.; Feak, Ch. 2009. Abstracts and the Writing of Abstracts. Ann Arbor:
University of Michigan Press ELT.
Walsh, L. 2010. “The Common Topoi of STEM Discourse: An Apologia and Meth-
odological Proposal, With Pilot Survey.” Written Communication 27 (1), 120–156.
Alina Ganea
Dunărea de Jos University of Galaţi
Rhetorical strategies in the discourse of
calls for papers
Abstract: The chapter carries out a comparative analysis of rhetorical means in English and
French calls for papers, as examples of promotional style in modern academic discourse.
The study identifies ways in which organizers of scholarly conferences persuade potential
participants to believe that the event is worth attending. The focus is primarily on trust-
raising and emotional techniques.
1. Introduction
Calls for papers (CFPs) represent a widely spread academic method used to collect
scientific contributions pertaining to a certain area. Most frequently related to the
organization of a scientific event, be it a colloquium or the publication of a scientific
journal issue, calls for papers communicate temporal, thematic, and procedural
constraints meant to ensure a coherent collection of scientific contributions.
CFPs may be seen as an embodiment of a subtype of scientific discourse: they
speak about science, share scientific information, but they are also means to cre-
ate new scientific knowledge. Therein CFPs may be considered as going beyond
the informative scope of scientific discourse: exposition of scientific knowledge
in CFPs is achieved so as to ensure the investigation of new areas and to support
the creation of new knowledge. Consequently, beyond the informative dimen-
sion CFPs encompass, there is also a persuasive one since the outcome of the
call depends on the rate and quality of the attendees; moreover, the profusion of
such events intensely mediated by the web enhances competition on the market.
This abundance raises the question of trustworthiness and quality. In Nicholas’s
(2014) words, “the cornucopia of research information available on the Web is not
only avidly consumed by everybody but also increasingly produced by everybody
[…].” Under the circumstances, the traditional representations and perception of
the notions repute, authority, trust change and different value indicators are used
to measure credibility. This correlatively influences the means used to persuade
by credibility appeals. Moreover, since, within the current academic community,
the scholarly productivity is dominated by the rigorous dictate of the ‘publish
or perish’ mentality (Nicholas 2014), CFPs, which represent a scholarly source
Alina Ganea
152
creating the possibility of academic communication, are also subjected to the same
quality evaluation with respect to credibility.
Taking these into account, the question of proving legitimacy and earning
credibility is central in ensuring the success of CFPs. This is also asserted by
Aronowitz (1988: ix), who writes about scientific discourse, a category to which
CFPs belong, that “claims of authority in our contemporary world rest increas-
ingly on the possession of legitimate knowledge, of which scientific discourses are
supreme.” This acknowledged supremacy of the appeal to credibility in scientific
discourses accounts for the rhetorical analysis of CFPs that certainly obeys the
exigencies of the genre in displaying certain elements (mention of the endorsing
society, the scientific committee, keynote speakers, etc.) which can nonetheless be
included within a rhetorical pattern designed to guarantee and raise credibility.
2.  Objectives and material
This paper mainly focuses on the rhetorical analysis of this type of discourse in
order to delineate the devices used to create a quality image for the event (ethic
appeals) and also to stir audience’s favorable emotions so as to enhance the impact
of the CFP. This analysis appears to be, therefore, relevant for the investigation of
rhetoric in the knowledge society from a double perspective. Firstly, the article
sets to analyze the way knowledge is created through discourse. More precisely,
CFPs create an adequate scientific setting where an aspect of knowledge is prob-
lematized for the purpose of fetching research boundaries further in the respec-
tive area. Secondly, the discourse of CFPs on which this analysis is conducted
represents a variety of academic discourse, a genre which is about transmitting
and producing knowledge.
The analysis was conducted on a corpus of approximately fifty CFPs collected
on the portals www.linguist.list.org and www.framonde.auf.org. Several criteria
determined this selection of data. First of all, calls for papers which advertise scien-
tific events within the general area of humanities were selected, since this thematic
unity is supposed to provide cohesive data with respect to the characteristics of
this discourse genre. Moreover, this disciplinary homogeneity also anticipated
the prospect of singling out structural characteristics and discourse strategies
specific to the calls for papers within this area. For a more accurate description,
we analyzed CFPs from two different portals that differ with respect to the variety
of disciplinary sources of the calls and categories of addressees.
Calls popularized on www.framonde.auf.org belong to different subfields within
the large area of humanities, such as linguistics, literature, didactics, cultural studies,
and address teachers within French university departments. The target audience is
Rhetorical strategies in the discourse of calls for papers 153
therefore more restrictive, as it admits a specific professional category, unlike the
portal www.linguist.list.org, which addresses the large community of academic lin-
guists to whom it provides information about scientific events related to language
and language analysis. Against this large target audience, calls from www.linguist.
list.org are more restrictive when it comes to the variety of humanistic disciplinary
sources.
No thematic criterion was favored in our selection, albeit all the calls selected
had to meet a structural condition, namely to comprise a rationale stating the
context, the purpose of the call as well as the difference it makes with respect
to connected researches in the field. From a quantitative point of view, an equal
number of twenty-five samples of French and English calls were selected.
3. 
Calls for papers as calls for change. Structural and
functional elements of CFPs
Perhaps more than any other type of discourse, CFPs confirm Herzberg’s (1986: 1,
quoted in Swales 1990: 21) view that discourse operates within conventions de-
fined by communities, treated from the perspective of academic disciplines or
social groups. Taking a similar stance, Swales (1990: 24) states that the form and
structure of discourse genres are determined by the community which operates
with them, and that the community’s “‘discoursal expectations’ determine topics,
form, function and positioning of discoursal elements, and the role texts play in
the operation of the discourse community.”
In line with the principles of genre analysis, CFPs, which belong to the large
category of written genres of academic discourse, and are associated with the
academics’ research activity, are subjected to the rigors of the discourse genre, i.e.,
academic discourse, and to the constraints related to the rhetorical action they
are supposed to perform: an addresser informs the addressee on an upcoming
scientific event in order to make him/her adopt a change in attitude and action
(Renkema 2004: 175).
Following Swales (1990: 58) and Bhatia (2004: 58–59), who envisage a dis-
course genre as comprising different communicative events with which specific
communicative purposes can be associated, the communicative purposes ascrib-
able to CFPs clearly intermingle an informative scope and a promotional one.
CFPs inform on a scientific event with the clear purpose of attracting attendees −
or, according to Bhatia (1993: 45–46), of eliciting a certain response from readers.
Albeit, both scopes are overarched by an academic perspective which adds and
shapes their communicative conventions.
Alina Ganea
154
According to Hyland’s (2009: 67) classification of academic discourse, CFPs fall
within the category of research discourses, i.e., discourse that is used to convey in-
formation and knowledge in research settings between researchers. Accordingly, it
is worth mentioning that CFPs make use of highly specialized terminology, since
they address the knowledgeable audience, and they heavily draw on expository
language, displaying numerous language functions, such as comparison, cause/
effect, collection/description, enumeration, problem/solution and procedure
(Klimas 2003: 9). However, it should not be ignored that CFPs also contribute to
producing knowledge.
When it comes to structural organization, CFPs contain two sets of elements.
These include (i) permanent components related to their format, such as title,
scientific board, keynote speakers, endorsing society, organizing institution(s), the
subscription modalities and conditions of acceptance, the calendar, registration
information, etc.; and (ii) variable elements, such as the rationale (description of
the scientific context of the main topic addressed; the state of the art, identification
of the niche that, within this context, needs attention; identification of the main
goal of research, its motivation and relevance, etc.) as well as the research axes
derived from the main research question. While the former is a stable component
of CFPs, the latter may take different forms, both in structure and in length, and
provides the ground for argumentative moves.
The different constitutive parts of the rationale may be associated with what
Swales (1983: 192–193) calls cognitive move-structures and what Bhatia (1993: 32)
defines as discriminative elements of generic structure, serving to distinguish con-
stitutive elements of a discourse sequence. Seen in this light, the following moves
may be identified within the rationale:
Move 1: State the research field
Move 2: Present the state-of-the art in the area
Move 3: Identify the research problem to be addressed
Move 4: Argue for the relevance of the research
Move 5: Inform on the type of research to be conducted
When it comes to composition, the rationale of the CFPs revolves around two
situations which are placed in opposition. The first of them is defined either by a
prior initial moment (T1
) distinguished as a breakthrough moment with major
scientific outcomes in the respective field, or it may refer to a widespread current
theoretical trend, or only to conditions which are no longer adequate in the larger
social, political or cultural context. This is a pretext to introduce the point that the
CFPs want to make which is shown as a necessity to adapt to the new context or
Rhetorical strategies in the discourse of calls for papers 155
to address new issues that have emerged (on the problem of exigence in academic
discourse, see also Molek-Kozakowska this volume).
The rationale may follow two different patterns. The former consists in building
a mini-narrative frame where references to an initial moment (T1
) are made to
depict a past situation and its evolution. Afterwards, an immediate shift is made
to the present. There are temporal markers which underlie this construction.
(1)	
L’enseignement et l’apprentissage/acquisition du français langue étrangère ont été, à
partir des années 70, un terrain d’application extrêmement fécond pour les théories
sur le fonctionnement des langues, pour l’investigation des processus d’appren-
tissage, des stratégies linguistiques et pragmatiques d’acquisition des apprenants
guidés et non guidés, pour la perception de l’altérité, de l’étrangeté de la culture de
l’Autre, voire pour la didactique du français langue maternelle.
	
Quarante ans plus tard, de nouvelles théories sur la langue ont fait leur chemin,
de nouveaux moyens de communication ont bouleversé la transmission des connais-
sances mais peut-être aussi les modes d’apprentissage; l’esprit humain est de nou-
veau interrogé avec l’espoir d’y trouver quelques réponses aux difficultés de toutes
sortes qu’affrontent toujours et encore les apprenants comme leurs enseignants; on se
détourne de plus en plus de l’hypothèse que l’acquisition d’une langue étrangère est
comparable à l’acquisition de la langue maternelle, on prend davantage en compte
les spécificités de la langue cible et de la langue maternelle des apprenants mais aussi
l’ensemble des paramètres individuels qui caractérisent chaque apprenant: moti-
vation, niveau scolaire, qualité de l’environnement linguistique; la frontière entre
l’acquisition non guidée et l’apprentissage en milieu institutionnel est devenue très
poreuse, l’analyse linguistique de grands corpus a révélé des mécanismes textuels
très différents d’un genre à l’autre, bref, la situation didactique du FLE n’est plus la
même qu’il y a quarante ans.

(Colloque international IDFLE. Innovations, Didactiques en français langue étrangère,
18-19-20 octobre 2012 à l’Institut Français d’Athènes)

(Engl.) Teaching and learning French as a foreign language have been, since the 70s, an
extremely fertile field of application for theories concerning language functioning, for the
investigation of the learning process, of linguistic and pragmatic acquisition strategies of
guided and unguided learners, for the perception of otherness, of strangeness of the Other’s
culture, or even for the teaching of French as a native language.

Forty years later, new linguistic theories have emerged, new means of communication
have revolutionized the transmission of knowledge and perhaps the learning styles; the
human mind is again being questioned in the hope of finding some answers to the dif-
ficulties of all kinds learners as well as teachers are still faced with; we are increasingly
abandoning the assumption that the acquisition of a foreign language is comparable to the
acquisition of the mother tongue, we are taking into account more and more peculiarities
of the learners’ target language and mother tongue, but also all individual parameters that
characterize each learner: motivation, educational level, quality of language environment;
Alina Ganea
156
the border between unguided acquisition and learning in institutions has become very
porous, the linguistic analysis of large corpus revealed textual mechanisms which are
very different from one genre to another, in short, the situation of didactics of French as
a foreign language is not the same as forty years ago.
In both the previous and the following excerpts, the phrases à partir des années 70
(Engl. since the 70s), has long been the domain of make references to T1
, in a more
or less definite manner, while the phrases Quarante ans plus tard (Engl. Forty years
later) and in the last few decades are used to make the shift to the present situation.
(2)	Political discourse has long been the domain of critical linguists on the one hand,
and political scientists on the other. Critical linguists understand political discourse
primarily as language in the context of politics, while political science understands
political discourses as ‘big D’ discourse (Gee 2005), as systems of knowledge and
ideology.
	In the last few decades, however, linguists, translation scholars and political scien-
tists have begun to take a more interdisciplinary stance, combining both approaches
to discourse. In political science, the study of political speech and rhetoric begins to
be seen as essential for scholars of politics, since ‘the political speech is a snapshot
of ideology in action’ (Finlayson, Martin 2008, p. 449).
(Political Discourse: Multidisciplinary Approaches, 26–27 June 2015, University College
London)
There are instances when the T1
moment is referred to by making mention of an
event, for instance a colloquium, as in (3):
(3)	
Dans la continuité du précédent colloque sur «Les dispositifs de médiation: théories,
méthodes et enjeux» (Aghababaie, Bonjour, Clerc, Rauscher, 2010), organisé les 19
et 20 novembre 2009, l’Association des jeunes chercheurs du Centre de recherche
sur les médiations (CREM, EA 3476) organise son 3ème colloque international les
24 et 25 mai 2012 à l’université de Lorraine autour de la thématique: «Dispositifs
transmédiatiques, convergences et constructions des publics».

(Dispositifs transmédiatiques, convergences et constructions des publics, Metz, France, 24
et 25 mai 2012)
(Engl.) Following the previous colloquium on “Mediation devices: theories, methods and
issues” (Aghababaie, Bonjour, Clerc, Rauscher, 2010), held on the 19th
and 20th
Novem-
ber 2009, the Association of Young Researchers of the Research Centre on Mediations
(CREM, EA 3476) organizes its third international conference on the 24th
and 25th
May
2012 at the University of Lorraine around the theme: “Transmedia devices, convergences
and public construction”.
This shift from the past to the present is always presented as a necessity (for a
discussion of necessity as an important exigence marker in modern academic
Rhetorical strategies in the discourse of calls for papers 157
discourse, see also Molek-Kozakowska this volume) which is determined by the
evolution of research in the area, but also the evolution of the world. For ex-
ample, in (1) the idea of necessity is rendered by phrases like se détourner de
l’hypothèse (Engl. ‘we are increasingly abandoning the assumption’), la frontière
est devenue proreuse (Engl. ‘border has become very porous’), which express out-
dated knowledge and obsolete scientific approaches, as well as a call for a change
of the perspective.
In certain cases, the rationale of the CFP is reduced to a situation associated
with T2
, without any reference to T1
.
(4)	
Nous proposons d’interroger les choix de méthodologies pour la recherche en sciences
du langage aujourd’hui: qu’étudie le chercheur, selon quels critères, quels position-
nements théoriques, quelles approches? Faut-il considérer que le cloisonnement
méthodologique et disciplinaire est nécessaire ou une approche transversale est-elle
pertinente? Comment le chercheur établit-il sa méthodologie? A quelles contraintes
fait-il face? Ceci implique un positionnement du chercheur à divers niveaux: choix
d’un cadre théorique et élaboration d’une hypothèse, observation et collecte de don-
nées, analyse de ces données et des résultats. Chacun de ces éléments constitue un
axe dans lequel peut s’inscrire le communicant.

(Enjeux méthodologiques actuels en sciences du langage: orientations, matériaux, con-
traintes, Colloque Jeunes Chercheurs DIPRALANG-EA739, 7–8 juin 2012, Université Paul
Valéry-Montpellier III, France)

(Engl.) We propose to investigate the choice of methodologies for research in language
sciences nowadays: what does the researcher study, according to which criteria, which
theoretical positions, which approaches? Should we consider that the methodological and
disciplinary compartmentalization is necessary, or is a transversal approach relevant? How
does the researcher establish his/her methodology? What constraints does he face? This
involves the researcher’s positioning at various levels: choice of theoretical framework
and development of a hypothesis, data observation and collection, analysis of data and
results. Each of these elements is an axis which the speaker can situate himself/herself on.
In such cases, the rationale directly introduces the reader to the problem to be
tackled in the CFP.
A second pattern that the rationale may follow relies on an argumentative
scheme based on opposition. The argumentation progress follows more or less
the following pattern (Adam 1990: 206–211):16
16	 The pattern is used by Adam (1990: 206–211) to describe a special function of the
French connector mais, namely the argumentative ‘mais’.
Alina Ganea
158
S1
---------YET--------> S2
implicit conclusion2
conclusion1
(negation of implicit conclusion)
The initial situation (S1
) refers to a current situation or conception or trend within
the scientific field, either presented as already widely acknowledged by the scien-
tific community or backed up by concrete examples in the rationale. S1
leads to an
implicit positive conclusion of the type further research in the area or in line with
this approach should be developed. The next move consists in putting forward data
contradicting S1
; this segment is introduced by a connector of contrast (however,
nevertheless, in contrast, etc.) and induces a conclusion negating the previous
implicit one. This is the case in the following example:
(5)	
Comme le confirment des conférences ou des ateliers comme MAD, LPTS, CID,
DAARC ou SIGDIAL pour n’en citer que quelques-uns, l’analyse du discours est un
domaine de recherche actif, aussi bien pour les disciplines de la linguistique et de la
psycholinguistique que du Traitement Automatique des Langues (TAL). (S1
) – [The-
refore emphasis should be laid on the approach promoted within these
workshops]
	Force est néanmoins de constater que l’impact de ces travaux d’un point de vue
applicatif reste globalement limité et en tout cas, moins étendu qu’il ne pourrait
l’être. (S2
) [Therefore there should be a shift in the approach in this field]
	
Sans être exhaustif, des applications, aussi diverses que l’extraction d’information,
le résumé automatique, le question-réponse, la navigation textuelle, l’aide à la ré-
daction, la détection de citations ou l’analyse d’opinion sont confrontées à l’objet
textuel. [Examples] Plus précisément, elles ont besoin de s’appuyer sur des structures
intermédiaires entre le texte et la phrase pour mettre en œuvre leurs traitements,
ces structures étant issues d’analyses discursives. [Justification] En extraction
d’information par exemple, alors que le niveau phrastique peut souvent suffire pour
extraire des relations factuelles binaires (“Franz Kafka est né à Prague, alors …” -->
lieu_naissance (Kafka, Prague)), il est nécessaire de faire apparaitre une structuration
évènementielle des textes pour gérer les ambigüités de rattachement des informations
caractérisant un événement (date, lieu et magnitude d’un tremblement de terre par
exemple). [Example]

(Discours et TAL: des modèles linguistiques aux applications. Journée d’étude organisée sous
l’égide de l’ATALA et de la revue Discours, 12 mai 2012, Maison de la Recherche, Paris, France)
Rhetorical strategies in the discourse of calls for papers 159
(Engl.) As it is shown by conferences or workshops such as MAD, LPTS, CID, DAARC
or SIGDIAL, to name a few, discourse analysis is an active area of research for both
disciplines of linguistics and psycholinguistics, and for Automatic Language Processing
(TAL). (S1
) [Therefore emphasis should be laid on the approach promoted
within these workshops]
Nevertheless, it has been shown that, from the point of view of their application, the
impact of the work remains generally limited and, in any case, less extensive than it
could be. (S2
) [Therefore there should be a shift in the approach in this field]
Without being exhaustive, applications as diverse as information extraction, automatic
summary, question-answering, text navigation, writing assistance, detection of citations
or opinion analysis are confronted to the textual object. [Examples] More precisely, they
need to rely on intermediate structures between the text and the sentence in order to imple-
ment their treatments, these structures being derived from discursive analyses. [Justifica-
tion] In information retrieval, for example, while the phrasal level may often suffice for
extracting binary factual relationships (“Franz Kafka is born in Prague, then …” --> place
of birth (Kafka, Prague)), it is necessary to show how events are structured within texts in
order to manage the connection ambiguities of information related to the characteriza-
tion of an event (date, place and magnitude of an earthquake for example) [Example]
In (6), the positive conclusion is made explicit (malgré…; Engl. ‘despite…’), and
it is followed by an adverse idea which is negatively foregrounded by means of il
est à deplorer (Engl. ‘it is to deplore…’):
(6)	
En effet, ce phénomène linguistique et sociolinguistique est manifeste non seulement
dans la presse écrite, ou dite «traditionnelle», mais aussi dans tous les autres médias,
comme la publicité sous toutes ses formes, ou encore les médias basés sur les NTIC.
En témoigne la langue assez particulière utilisée dans les échanges sur les réseaux
sociaux et les forums où, dans la plupart des cas, les utilisateurs emploient une
langue hybride, résultat d’un métissage entre plusieurs variétés, même si le support
principal est en langue française.
	Malgré cette dynamique linguistique forte intéressante, il est à déplorer l’absence
de tout effort de compilation et de mutualisation des travaux de recherche dans ce
domaine, atténuant, ainsi tout effort de description scientifique systématique des
mécanismes de son fonctionnement. Par ailleurs, et même si plusieurs études ont été
consacrées à l’analyse du phénomène du plurilinguisme en Algérie, très peu d’entre-
elles se sont penchées sur l’étude de ce phénomène dans les médias algériens et sur
ses retombées sur ces mêmes médias et sur la société.

(Formes et usages du français dans les médias algériens, Mostaganem, Algérie, 9 et 10
novembre 2014)
(Engl.) Indeed, this linguistic and socio-linguistic phenomenon is manifest not only in
the written press, or the so called “traditional” press, but also in all other media, such as
advertising in all its forms, or the media based on the new information and communica-
tion technologies. This is witnessed by the rather peculiar language used in exchanges in
Alina Ganea
160
social networks and forums where, in most cases, users use a hybrid language, which is the
result of interbreeding between several varieties, although the main support is in French.
Despite this extremely interesting linguistic dynamism, it is to deplore the absence of
any effort of compilation and sharing of research in this area, reducing any systematic
scientific effort of description of the mechanisms managing its functioning. Furthermore,
and even though several studies have been devoted to the analysis of the phenomenon
of multilingualism in Algeria, very few of them have focused on the study of this phe-
nomenon in the Algerian media and on its impact on these media and on the society.
The pervasive argument acting like a meta-argument in CFPs is necessity: necessity
to change the approach, to adopt new attitudes, to come up with solutions, etc.
The idea is sometimes deduced from the description of a context which calls for
immediate attention. Different aspects may be invoked.
Most often, the socio-political background may be invoked as an element caus-
ing urgent and imminent changes, as in (7), where emerging European impera-
tives make unavoidable the approach of the scientific topic referred to in the CFP.
(7)	
L’organisation de ces Journées s’inscrit dans un contexte bien particulier. La
connaissance de langues étrangères est devenue une composante incontournable
du profil du citoyen du XXIe
siècle et la formation de citoyens plurilingues, en
particulier en Europe, est d’ailleurs officiellement prônée par l’Union Européenne.
Dans cette perspective, il est indiscutable que la dimension européenne que l’on
entend développer ne peut pas faire l’impasse sur la langue et les cultures de langue
française, et l’enseignement des langues dans les systèmes éducatifs ne peut pas ne
pas inclure le français.

(XXVIIèmes Journées Pédagogiques sur l’enseignement du français en Espagne, Bellaterra
(Barcelona), Spain, 07-Sep-2015–09-Sep-2015)
(Engl.) The organization of these days is related to a particular context. Speaking foreign
languages ​​has become an essential component of the twenty-first century citizen’s profile,
and multilingual citizens’ training, particularly in Europe, is also officially promoted by
the European Union. In this perspective, it is indisputable that the European dimension
we mean to develop cannot ignore the French language and French-speaking cultures,
and language teaching in the educational systems cannot not include French.
In other contexts, cultural and social aspects intervene in building the necessity-
based argument:
(8)	
Given that society is dynamic and the accompanying determining factors are also
in flux, names are sometimes changed to reflect new realities. In other instances they
are left unchanged. Nevertheless, toponymic landscapes generally capture to a lesser
or greater extent the diversity of their context and also largely relate strongly to the
heritage of name givers. For many people changes in place names have a bearing on
these aspects. One therefore often finds that orchestrated place name changes become an
Rhetorical strategies in the discourse of calls for papers 161
instrument of legitimation for one section of a society and are therefore being contested
by another section of the society. This prompts questions about the management of
place names in diverse societies and the role of heritage associated with place names.
(2015 International Symposium on Place Names, Clarens, Free State Province, South Africa,
17-Sep-2015–18-Sep-2015)
There are instances when the term necessity is explicitly used in argumentation:
(9)	
At the same time, linguistic discourse analysts have begun contextualizing their analysis
using political and social science methods, and argue that these methods are necessary
in order to explain results of linguistic analysis (see for example Harris, Rampton 2014;
Wodak 2014). This has also had an influence on translation studies, where cooperation
with political discourse analysis is perceived as a necessity (e.g. Schäffner 2004).

(Political Discourse: Multidisciplinary Approaches, 26–27 June 2015, University College
London)
In order to express the idea of pressing necessity, the adjective may be modified
as in (11) or used in a comparative form so as to express intensity (10):
(10)	
The increasing number of International and Chinese students enrolled in study
programmes such as Marco Polo / Turandot makes it more and more necessary
to reflect, from both a theoretical and an applied perspective, on the processes of
acquisition, teaching and assessment relative to a category of learners with peculiar
needs and learning goals which are strictly connected to the academic requirements.

(Insegnamento della lingua italiana agli studenti internazionali e agli studenti Marco
Polo / Turandot, Pavia, Italy, 18-Sep-2015–19-Sep-2015)
(11)	This is particularly relevant since today’s networked society has generated an increas-
ing number of contexts where multilingualism challenges current knowledge repre-
sentation methods and techniques. To meet these challenges, it is necessary to deal
with semantics since information can be organized, presented, and searched, based
on meaning and not just text. Ideally, this would mean that language-independent
specialized knowledge could be accessed across different natural languages. There
is thus the urgent need for high-quality multilingual knowledge resources that are
able to bridge communication barriers, and which can be linked and shared.
(11th
International Conference on Terminology and Artificial Intelligence, Granada,
Spain, 04-Nov-2015–06-Nov-2015)
The same idea of necessity may be communicated at the lexical level through the
choice of words which connote urgency and pressing necessity:
il nous faut accepter aujourd’hui que … (Engl. we have to accept that today…)
Les linguistes ne peuvent qu’être sensibles à cette situation exceptionnelle… (Engl. Lin-
guists can only be open to this exceptional situation…)
Alina Ganea
162
Force est néanmoins de constater que (Engl. We are nevertheless forced to notice that …)
There is urgent need…
understanding the impact of culture on human interactions is becoming critical for effective
academic and corporate communication to occur
The lack of definitive research in this area suggests…
4.  The rhetoric of calls for papers
As an instance of scientific discourse, CFPs use specialized language in order to
speak about a scientific topic which is submitted to the scholars’ attention who are
implicitly invited to approach the matter through the submission of a contribution.
Given the profusion of CFPs and their popularization due to multiple postings in
the Internet, CFPs need to stand out and entice the target audience. For this reason,
the information discourse mode (Smith 2003: 8) specific to CFPs is, in most cases,
complemented by a significant persuasive dimension materialized in the use of
language which ‘guarantees’ something. It is in this respect that CFPs can be associ-
ated with promotional discourse in that they advertise an event in a way to render
it more appealing to the public. The fact that promotional elements permeate the
discourse of CFPs is not to be envisaged as a secluded phenomenon, but is rather
an illustration of what Norman Fairclough (1993: 143) describes as ‘marketization’
of academic discourse. This is a consequence of sweeping changes emerging in the
context of the contemporary capitalist world which led to the “general reconstruc-
tion of social life on a market basis” (Fairclough 1993: 141). Accordingly, the role of
institutions of higher education has been redefined: universities represent organiza-
tions, and higher education is defined as a product or commodity (Drori, Delmestri
and Oberg 2013). Subsequently, higher education institutions have adopted funda-
mental marketing principles, “acquired and used enterprising qualities” (Keat and
Abercrombie 1991: 1), which mainly involves promoting their image and building
up their reputation so as to enhance customers’ confidence in the quality of the
products and services advertised and to increase sales. Except that, in the case of
higher education institutions, increasing sales revolves around “increasing knowl-
edge for knowledge’s sake” (Drori, Delmestri and Oberg 2013: 149).
Given the type of event advertised in the case of CFPs, the appealingness is
to be translated in terms of quality. Adopting a commercial attitude, CFPs are
therefore supposed to display a range of rhetorical devices meant to make the
audience formulate positive quality judgments.
Rhetorical strategies in the discourse of calls for papers 163
4.1  Ethos construction
Our analysis reveals that CFPs show a great concern for building the authority and
reliability of the prospective event and use numerous devices in order to provide
a high quality self-image.
The first category of devices used to build ethos is represented by arguments
from authority. “A discussion party who advances authority argumentation pre-
sents the agreement of a supposed authority with the discussion party’s stand-
point as a sign of the truth or acceptability of this standpoint” (van Eemeren
and Grootendorst 1990: 163). The underlying structure is presented by Pilgram
(2012) as follows:
Opinion O is acceptable
Authority A is of the opinion that O
A’s opinion indicates that O is acceptable.
In the case of CFPs, arguments from authority are typically represented by an
endorsing society/association involved in organizing the event, a scientific board
or keynote speakers whose reputation and influence grant trustworthiness and
quality to the event:
(12)	
The Italian Language and Literature division of the Faculty of Letters, University of
Craiova (Romania), with the cooperation of the Italian Embassy to Romania, the
‘Vito Grasso’ Italian Culture Institute of Bucharest, and the ‘Dante Alighieri’
Society, Central Head Office of Rome, has the pleasure and honour to invite you
to the 7th
International Conference of Italian Studies of the University of Craiova,
‘Present and Future of Italian Language and Literature: Issues, Methods, Research’
(Craiova, September 18–19, 2015).
(The 7th
International Conference of Italian Studies – “Present and Future of Italian Lan-
guage and Literature: Issues, Methods, Research,” Craiova, 18–19 September 2015)
Unlike the excerpt above, the argument from authority may take a vague form
when CFPs present the event as being refereed in order to make its competitive-
ness and professionalism stand out:
(13)	
The IICE is an international refereed conference dedicated to the advancement of
the theory and practices in education. The IICE promotes collaborative excellence
between academicians and professionals from Education.

(Ireland International Conference on Education (IICE-2015), October 26–29, 2015,
Dublin, Ireland)
The high quality image of the event is also built up by depicting the scope of
the event. This is regularly the major point of CFPs that encompasses multiple
Alina Ganea
164
scientific issues, addresses innovative aspects, and expects revolutionary out-
comes. The width of the scope casts a positive value on the quality of the event:
(14)	
Ce colloque rassemblera pour la première fois en Algérie et à l’échelle maghrébine,
les résultats de recherche ayant ciblé les nouvelles formes d’expression nouvelle,
électronique ou numérique, issus des cadres de recherche (mémoires de magister et
de doctorats EDAF et hors EDAF2), centrés sur[…]
	
Ce type de traitement de la donnée linguistique inféré par les nouvelles technolo-
giques est en train de bouleverser la configuration linguistique et sociolinguis-
tique des pays du Maghreb. Il s’agira de mettre en exergue les dynamiques à la base
de cette recomposition linguistique, à la lumière des paramètres suivants […]

(Plurilinguisme, contact des langues et nouvelles formes d’expression linguistiques au
Maghreb, Colloque international, Mostaganem (Algérie), du 6 au 8 décembre 2014)
(Engl.) This conference will bring together for the first time in Algeria and across the
Maghreb, the research results targeting the new forms of expression, electronic or digi-
tal, emerging from research (master dissertations and PhD dissertations EDAF and out
EDAF2), focusing on […] This type of treatment of language data inferred by new tech-
nologies is about to turn upside down the entire linguistics and sociolinguistics configura-
tion of the Maghreb countries. This will highlight the dynamics underlying this linguistic
reconstruction, based on the following parameters […]
The scope may not only refer to the scientific impact of the results, but also to the
regional and international societal impact and benefits:
(15)	
This two-day conference will explore and debate the diversity of methods used to
analyse political discourse in order to encourage the conversation between disci-
plines involved. It will discuss the merits and issues of different methodological ap-
proaches to discourse and explore which insights discourse analysts can give into the
cultural dependencies of political discourses in a European and global context.
(Political Discourse: Multidisciplinary Approaches, 26–27 June 2015, University College
London)
(16)	The ultimate goal consists in creating a common ground for different approaches to
digital corpora, which will foster the development of corpus linguistics in France
and in the Romance languages.
(8es Journées Internationales de Linguistique de Corpus, 2–4 sept 2015, Orléans, France) 
(17)	
The goal of this Workshop is to bring together academic researchers and indus-
try practitioners working on NLP for Balto­
-Slavic languages. In particular, the
Workshop will serve to stimulate the research on NLP techniques for Balto­
-Slavic
languages, and to foster the creation of tools for these languages. The Workshop
will provide a forum for exchanging ideas and experience, discussing difficult­
-
Rhetorical strategies in the discourse of calls for papers 165
to-­
tackle problems in this field of research, and making the available resources
more widely­known.

(5h Biennal Workshop on Balto-Slavic Natural Language Processing, Hissar, Bulgaria,
10-Sep-2015–11-Sep-2015)
Another way of building an image of quality for the event consists in making a shift
to the past, by invoking its tradition and its popularity among specialists. In the fol-
lowing extract, the enumeration of the expected categories of attendees is notable:
(18)	The Child Language Symposium is an interdisciplinary conference with a long tra-
dition which attracts a diverse international audience of linguists, psychologists
and speech-language therapists and provides a forum for research on language
acquisition and developmental language disorders.
(The 2015 Child Language Symposium (formerly the Child Language Seminar), Univer-
sity of Warwick, on Monday 20 and Tuesday 21 July, 2015)
The long tradition frequently invoked communicates the rhetor’s authority and
self-confidence. In the following extract, a strong point is made about the event’s
tradition by presenting this information as a confirmation answer to an assumed
hypothetical question.
(19)	The 7th
Language and Technology Conference (LTC 2015), a meeting organized by
the Faculty of Mathematics and Computer Science of Adam Mickiewicz University,
Poznań, Poland in cooperation with the Adam Mickiewicz University Foundation, will
take place on November 27–29, 2015. Following the tradition of the past events, it is
supported by ELRA, FlaReNet, and META-NET.
	
Yes, we started 20 years ago! Our tradition goes back to the Language and Technol-
ogy Awareness Days, a meeting organized in 1995 with the assistance of the Euro-
pean Commission (DG XIII). Among the key speakers were Antonio Zampolli (Italy),
Dafydd Gibbon (Germany), Dan Tufiş (Romania), Orest Kossak (Ukraina). Now we
refer to this event as the first LTC. Ten years later, we decided to meet again, and since
then the conference is being organized every two years as the “Language & Technology
Conference: Human Language Technologies as a Challenge for Computer Science and
Linguistics.”
(7th
Language & Technology Conference: Human Language Technologies as a Challenge
for Computer Science and Linguistics, November 27–29, 2015, Poznań, Poland)
Furthermore, references are often made to the high quality of the event’s previous
editions, which serves as a premise of the quality of next editions, thus reinforcing
the sender’s authority, repute and consistency:
(20)	The TC conference has emerged as a leading forum for users, developers and vendors
of Translation Technology tools, being a distinctive event for discussing the latest de-
velopments. It is an annual meeting where translators, researchers and business people,
Alina Ganea
166
from translation companies, international organisations, universities and research labs,
as well as freelance professionals, exchange ideas and discuss hot topics.
(37th
Translating and the Computer Conference, London, United Kingdom, 26-Nov-
2015–27-Nov-2015)
Moreover, reference to the audience expected to attend the event may implicitly
enhance the latter’s quality. The larger the audience, the more important the event:
(21)	
The Conference is a unique chance for teachers and academics in SLA to present
their unique papers before and international audience of teachers, researchers
and fellow academics.
(14th
Asian EFL Journal International Conference, Clark, Philippines, 21-Aug-2015–
23-Aug-2015)
Ethos appeals can also be identified in the way scientific textual content is handled
in the CFPs. The description of the scientific background of the central research
question, identification of issues to be addressed and their contribution to solving
the central question raised, the ability to address adequate questions to poten-
tial participants so as to elicit adequate answers – all contribute to emphasizing
knowledgeability and high academic quality.
Finally, the CFPs studied additionally mention positive outcomes of scientific
exchange with an aim to articulate high expectations behind professional activity
and its favored standards (on ‘excellence’ as an expression of such standards in
the modern academy, see Wagner this volume).
(22)	
The IICE is an international refereed conference dedicated to the advancement of
the theory and practices in education. The IICE promotes collaborative excellence
between academicians and professionals from Education.

(Ireland International Conference on Education (IICE-2015), October 26–29, 2015,
Dublin, Ireland)
Strongly connotative terms, such as excellence, esteem, academicians, professionals,
evolution, promote, bridge the knowledge gap, all contribute to building the quality
and prestige of the event:
(23)	
The aim of IICE is to provide an opportunity for academicians and profession-
als from various educational fields with cross-disciplinary interests to bridge the
knowledge gap, promote research esteem and the evolution of pedagogy.

(Ireland International Conference on Education (IICE-2015), October 26–29, 2015,
Dublin, Ireland)
Rhetorical strategies in the discourse of calls for papers 167
4.2  Emotional appeals
Emotional appeals are also deployed, mainly to stir the audience’s positive emo-
tions. For example, in addressing a distinctive audience by their different academic
categories, CFPs inform of a wide range of participants expected to attend the
event (researchers, professionals, experts, academicians, academics, scholars, etc.).
This is how CFPs build up virtual communities of attendees who are rhetorically
structured as those owning expertise and promoting equality and sharing. This is
meant to awaken emotions whereby the virtual participants can desire to become
part of the larger positive image. As an illustration of such a persuasive mecha-
nism, the following excerpt provides the contextualized use of the term peers,
which together with the three neighboring verbs (meet/gather, get enthusiastic,
replenish) builds up a vision of scientific comradeship and emulation:
(24)	
Ce rendez-vous de deux jours sera pour les enseignants de français de tous niveaux
une véritable source d’inspiration, avec la variété de ses thèmes et ses multiples ate-
liers, exposes et tables rondes: l’occasion rêvée de se rencontrer entre homologues,
de s’enthousiasmer et de se ressourcer !

(Congrès 2013 des professeurs de français aux Pays Bas « Le français à la carte ! », 22 et
23 mars 2013, au Palais des Congrès « De Leeuwenhorst » à Noordwijkerhout, Pays-Bas)
(Engl.) This two-day meeting will be for French teachers of all levels a true source of in-
spiration, with the variety of its topics and its many workshops, presentations and round
tables: the perfect opportunity to meet peers, to get enthusiastic and replenish spiritually!
In the same way, the following extracts demonstrate participants of the scholarly
event as experts and the meeting itself as knowledge-sharing dialog or dialog be-
tween researchers and an occasion for the specialists to advance work.
(25)	
…ce quatrième Forum régional HERACLES se propose d’explorer les nouvelles dy-
namiques actuellement à l’œuvre pour l’enseignement des langues, au sein de l’Alma
Mater, dans le cadre d’un dialogue d’expertise et de partage des connaissances.
(Théories de référence, outils didactiques et diffusion du savoir: nouvelles dynamiques pour
la recherche et le dialogue d’expertise dans l’enseignement des langues à l’université Forum
mondial Héraclès – IV° Rencontre régionale Asie – Pacifique, Université Agricole de Chine
Pékin 10–14 octobre 2014)
(Engl.) …this fourth regional HERACLES forum will explore the new dynamics available
now within the field of language teaching, within Alma Mater, as part of an expertise and
knowledge sharing dialogue.
(26)	A dialog between researchers has great potential to advance work in each of these
areas and bring about more powerful and enriched models of text semantics.
Alina Ganea
168

(Workshop on Linking Models of Lexical, Sentential and Discourse-Level Semantics,
Lisbon, Portugal, 17-Sep-2015–18-Sep-2015)
The event announced by the CFPs appears to cause the emergence of a scien-
tific agora (a special environment) where the participants (researchers) can share
knowledge freely:
(27)	One fascinating aspect of this sub­family of languages is the striking structural simi-
larity, as well as an easily recognizable core vocabulary and inflectional inventory
spanning the entire group of languages despite the lack of mutual intelligibility
­­which creates a special environment, in which researchers can fully appreciate
the shared problems and solutions and communicate naturally.
(5th
Biennal Workshop on Balto-Slavic Natural Language Processing, Hissar, Bulgaria,
10-Sep-2015–11-Sep-2015)
Phrases such as share knowledge, promote collaborative excellence, a forum of exchang
or stimulate research evoke the idea of community, and suggest a shared vision,
goals and commitment. The emotion raised is related to the idea of belonging and
collaboration.
5. Conclusions
This analysis has clearly shown that CFPs display a prominent persuasive dimen-
sion where the concern for building an image of quality and trustworthiness is
paramount. The strategies revealed have enabled to identify some meta-grounds
for creating ethical appeals in the promotional discourse: tradition, clients’ satis-
faction with previous editions, recognition (due to the quality of the participants
expected), exclusiveness (given the repute of the invited speakers), the product’s
quality argued by the popularity of a previous event. They all act as premises that
transfer the ideas of quality, trustfulness and authority to the product on display in
the CFPs. Additionally, for accentuating the audience’s own sense of importance,
the language of emotions is frequently used. The recipients are addressed by di-
verse terms representing the academic domain (researchers, scholars, academics,
etc.) and, due to references to positive emotions related to solidarity, belonging,
sharing and scientific emulation, they are made to feel part of a large and exclu-
sive community. They can thus feel unique since they are invited to take part in
a distinctive event where they are promised a high-quality academic experience
amongst fellows. As the research material has shown, all these attempts target the
construction of the scientific ethos, which curiously enough is to a great extent
triggered by academe-related emotions.
Rhetorical strategies in the discourse of calls for papers 169
References
Adam, J.-M. 1990. Eléments de linguistique textuelle. Liège: Pierre Mardaga.
Aronowitz, S. 1988. Science as Power. Discourse and Ideology in Modern Society.
Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.
Bhatia, V. 1993. Analysing Genre: Language Use in Professional Settings. London:
Longman.
Bhatia, V. 2004. Worlds of Written Discourse: A Genre Based View. London:
Continuum.
Drori, G. S.; Delmestri, G.; Oberg, A. 2013. “Branding the University: Relation-
al Strategy of Identity Construction in a Competitive Field.” In Engwall, L.;
Scott, P. (eds.) Trust in Higher Education Institutions. London: Portland Press,
134–147.
Eemeren, F. H. van; Grootendorst, R. 1990. A systematic theory of argumentation:
The pragma-dialectical approach. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Fairclough, N. 1993. “Critical Discourse Analysis and the Marketization of Public
Discourse: the Universities.” Discourse and Society (4), 133–168.
Herzberg, B. 1986. “The politics of discourse communities.” Paper presented at
the CCC Convention, New Orleans, La, March 1986.
Hyland, K. 2009. Academic discourse. London: Continuum.
Keat, R.; Abercrombie, N. 1991. Enterprise Culture. London: Routledge.
Klimas, N. 2003. “Mastering the language of the curriculum.” Expository Discourse
13 (47), 9.
Nicholas, D. 2014. “Trust and authority in scholarly communications.” http://
www.eprints.rclis.org/22903/1/USA_Trust%20and%20authority%20in%20
scholarly%20communications.pdf. Last accessed 20.11.2015.
Pilgram, R. 2012. “Reasonableness of a doctor’s argument by authority: A pragma-
dialectical analysis of the specific soundness conditions.” Journal of Argumenta-
tion in Context 1(1), 33–50.
Renkema, J. 2004. Introduction to Discourse Studies. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Smith, C. 2003. Modes of discourse. The local structures of texts. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Swales, J. 1983. “Developing materials for writing scholarly introductions.” In
Jordan, R. (ed.) Case Studies in ELT. London: Collins ELT, 188–200.
Swales, J. 1990. Genre Analysis: English in Academic and Research Settings. Boston:
Cambridge University Press.
IV.  Argumentation on the way to
rhetorical transmission of knowledge
Christian Plantin
Lyon University
Argumentation as an intellectual tool in the
knowledge society
Abstract: Contesting the opposition between (scientific) ‘demonstration’ and (rhetorical)
‘argumentation,’ the author claims that argumentation is a full-blown, legitimate way of
knowledge acquisition and knowledge-based decision making. The form and substance of
argumentative dialogue is presented as a powerful intellectual tool that can build a bridge
between the ‘two academic cultures.’
1. Introduction
This paper will argue implicitly against a vision limiting rhetoric to a mere com-
munication polishing device, and, explicitly, in favor of a concept of argumenta-
tive rhetoric able, first, to make a substantial contribution to science education
and, second, to be robust enough to collaborate in the construction of a common
language between what Snow calls the two cultures (Snow 1961), i.e., the sciences
and the humanities. As far as rhetoric wants to deal with human affairs, it has to
integrate the fact that nowadays, in a knowledge-based society, human affairs are
science-dependent (see also Kowalski, this volume). Consequently, rhetoric can
no longer be defined in relation with what is traditionally called ‘opinion’ and
‘common sense;’ it has to engage in a new relation with the ‘other culture.’
The second section will specify the concept of rhetorical argument used in
this presentation. Then, in section three and four, the question of the status of
argumentation in the knowledge society will be addressed through a foundational
rhetorical commonplace, the opposition between argumentation and demonstra-
tion, currently used to establish a radical disjunction between the culture of ‘those
who (at their best) argue’ and ‘those who prove.’
The multi-level distinctions between the organon of humanities and the orga-
non of science, between verstehen and erklären, should certainly not be denied or
minimized. Nonetheless, there are interfaces between the two, as shown in situa-
tions where argument and scientific proof do interact. Two such transitional situ-
ations will be singled out in section five: argumentation in science education and
argumentation about socio-scientific issues. Such knowledge-building situations
Christian Plantin
174
and discussions about the social impact of technoscience should be considered as
one major challenge for argumentation studies at the beginning of the 21st
 century.
In order to evolve, this dialogue between the arguing-culture and the demon-
strating-culture needs a common language. This shared language can be devel-
oped, first, from a concept of argument as ‘unless-reasoning,’ or ‘default reasoning,’
which is basically a re-interpretation of the Toulmin model. A second major con-
tribution of rhetorical argumentation theory to such a development can be sought
in the rich legacy of argumentation schemes, which can be re-examined in a
methodological perspective, where argument dealing with definition, categoriza-
tion, causality, authority and analogy should be prioritized.
2. 
A “Question-AnswerS” model and the rhetorical
approach to argument
There are currently many visions and ‘master theories’ of argumentation, from
Perelman’s age-making New Rhetoric and Toulmin’s substantial logic, through ar-
gumentation within language, argumentation in discourse and interaction, com-
munication approaches and programs, Natural Logic and Informal logic, to the
Amsterdam school of Pragmadialectics. Such a ‘theoretical polyphony’ certainly
reflects the dynamism of the field, but in a pluralistic context of this kind, it might
be necessary to give some general indications about one’s favorite approach. So this
first paragraph will outline the concept of argument that underlies this presentation.
2.1 Argumentative situation: Contradiction, stasis and
argumentative question
The Question-AnswerS model (‘one question—several answers’) is grounded in the
concept of argumentative situation, the occurrence of which can be schematized as
follows. Current speech situations are ruled by a preference for agreement: partici-
pants coordinate their speech and action more or less smoothly towards common
goals. Sometimes, a serious contradiction occurs between the participants; the
standard, normal co-construction of action-oriented discourse is blocked: you say
this, I say that: what should we think and do now? Ancient rhetoric defines this
situation as a discursive stasis, “a state or condition in which things do not change,
move, or progress” (Webster Online). As an example of stasis in action and dis-
course (or argumentative situation), let us consider the current organizational
arrangements prevailing in many (European) universities. Courses are organized
according to the traditional system of academic human sciences, disciplines, lit-
erature, linguistics, history, sociology, psychology, rhetoric, etc. Each discipline
Argumentation as an intellectual tool in the knowledge society 175
defines its method, and develops its theories about its favorite objects. Now, some
feel that the current state of affairs is not satisfactory, and step in with a proposal:
universities should get rid of this 19th
-century organization, and radically reorgan-
ize the curricula on the basis of actual facts and problems. Enough with disciplines
and theories, let us give the priority to complex data: family studies, terrorist
studies, failure studies and so on. So, the argumentative question emerges: What
should we do with this proposal? Why not give it a try? But it will generate chaos…
Generally speaking, an argumentative situation materializes in an argumen-
tative question. Argumentative questions are defined as questions which gener-
ate (are associated with) two or more Answers equally meaningful, relevant and
reasonable in a real life situation, but unfortunately mutually incompatible:
Proponent: – Yes, let’s have a try!
Opponent: – Not under any circumstances!
These Answers have the status of Conclusions in the argumentations triggered by
this question.
The concept of ‘stasis’ as an argumentative question comes mainly from Her-
mogenes of Tarsus; Nadeau defines stasis as “a state of balance or rest” (Nadeau
1964: 369). Argumentative questions could also be termed ‘rhetorical questions,’ but
the label has another well-established meaning. Cicero observes that the concept of
stasis as ‘issue’ in the field of rhetoric is the counterpart of the Aristotelian concept
of ‘problem’ in the field of dialectics (Aristotle, Topica I, 11). In the De inventione,
Cicero restricts the theory of argumentative questions to rhetoric, and objects to its
generalization to scientific problems. We will argue to the contrary, and consider
that the rhetorical concept of stasis situations is basic for the development of an
argumentative approach of knowledge acquisition, and lay the basis of a shared
language aimed at developing contact zones between the two cultures, sciences
and humanities.
2.2  Some characteristics of the “Question-AnswerS” approach
Two relevance principles. The activity of arguing is driven by two relevance prin-
ciples. According to the external relevance principle, the conclusion has to be
relevant for the question; otherwise, the ignoratio elenchi occurs. According to
the internal relevance principle, the argument has to be relevant for the conclu-
sion. The first principle falls into the scope of the Question-Answer semantics;
the second – into the scope of If-Then coordination semantics.
The accusation of fallacies of internal and external relevance is not the le-
thal weapon in the hand of an expert argumentation scholar. Relevance can be
Christian Plantin
176
challenged and re-asserted. Given the preceding academic situation, if I argue
that we should spend more time with our students, my opponent can argue that
my proposal, although true, bears no relevance in respect of the present discus-
sion; and I will have to argue for this relevance; main argumentative questions
regularly produce derived argumentative questions.
Data. As a consequence, the object of argumentative analysis is not a single
intervention, oral or written, but the whole argumentative situation, including
sets of pairs discourses/counter-discourses building incompatible answers to the
same question; in other words, corpora have to be built according to the principle
of external relevance. When focusing on the criticism of just one position, the
analyst can eventually end up as a party. Practically, the easiest way to get good
two-party data is to begin with naturally occurring interactions.
A local approach to argumentation. This is a local approach to argumentation,
by opposition with the generalized visions of argumentation, such as the ‘argu-
mentation within language’ theory (Anscombre, Ducrot 1983). We fully recognize
the fact that not all and every speech is strongly argumentative, and that a speech
situation can be more or less argumentative, or not argumentative at all. But once
an argumentative situation (a situation of stasis) is clearly stabilized and recog-
nized as such by the participants, then, all the discursive and semiotic phenomena
surrounding these answers function, if not as arguments, at least as supports for
one or the other competing Conclusions-Answers, from bodily posture to voice
intonation, to choice of words arrangements or arguments.
A theory of argumentation is not necessarily a normative theory. The general
goal of this kind of study of argumentation is to build models of argumentative
discourse. A model is, minimally, a coherent representation of a set of data. A
model is descriptively adequate if it is true to the object it wants to represent; a
good model is, moreover, explicatively adequate, that is, it makes sense, and betters
the understanding of its object.
Among other characteristics of this approach we cannot develop here, let us
mention the fact that argumentation is considered as the critical function of speech
in interaction. The concept of persuasion is replaced by the concept of alignment.
Deep disagreement should be considered neither as an unfavorable starting point,
nor as a tragic outcome and symptom of a failed argumentative situation. This
leads to a situated, dialectical and not a foundational approach to objectivity and
rationality. Rationality is not linked with the quest for consensus; it is approached
as a local phenomenon: a discourse is locally rational and reasonable if it respects
the rules of the place.
Argumentation as an intellectual tool in the knowledge society 177
A critical non-normative approach to argumentation. Arguments are evaluated
all the time, and the participants very well take the evaluation tasks in charge. Ac-
cordingly, the concept of fallacy is re-allocated to the participants (Hamblin 1970).
A rhetorical perspective. This general framework will be considered as a rhe-
torical perspective on argument; the phrases ‘rhetorical argumentation’ and ‘argu-
mentative rhetoric’ will be used interchangeably. This use of the term rhetoric is
justified as follows.
Argumentative rhetoric is a rhetoric grounded in inventio, taking in charge
the inheritance of ancient rhetoric from Aristotle to Cicero to Perelman and
Olbrechts-Tyteca and others. It opposes generalized visions of argument as well
as any form of post-Ramusian trend, where rhetoric is reduced to a belletristic,
and figures of speech reduced to ornaments. Figures are not opposed to argu-
ment. In part/whole metonymy, the object is named after its salient part; so a
sail can refer to the whole boat, fifty sails for fifty boats. In part/whole argument,
such as the sail is in poor conditions, the boat is certainly in poor conditions too,
the predicate allocated to the part is transferred to the whole. In other words, the
judgement proceeds from one’s perceptions to the actual thing being evaluated.
The argumentative and figurative mechanisms seem quite similar (Plantin 2009).
Argumentation studies are rhetorical as far as they are language-based (versus
logical) approaches. Argumentation is theorized with the tools and methods used
in language studies: discourse analysis, interaction studies, and stylistics. The basic
analytic tools are drawn from good and subtle grammars and dictionaries. The
goal is not to systematically translate natural language arguments into their logical
deep structure, even if, sometimes, such translations can be clarifying and helpful.
Beyond logicians, our next colleagues are certainly detectives (Sherlock Holmes
being the master of inference about human affairs), mushroom pickers (trying to
identify their findings), philologists and historians (as argued by Ginzburg), as well
as physicians and physicists, etc.
3.  ‘The Two Cultures’
The formidable question of a ‘knowledge society’ will be approached indirectly as
opposed to a split ‘two cultures’ society, described and deplored by Snow (1961).
As far as rhetoric and argumentation are concerned, this opposition takes the
specific form of our most deeply rooted foundational commonplace, the opposi-
tion between argumentation and demonstration, used to antagonize two groups,
‘those who argue’ and ‘those who prove,’ a tradition that goes back to Aristotle,
and is a basic feature of Perelman’s vision of argumentation, among others. This
orientation seems to be at odds with the very idea of a unified ‘knowledge society’
Christian Plantin
178
(the word knowledge taken to mean ‘techno-scientific knowledge’ and not, for
example, knowledge resulting from a decisive religious illumination).
3.1  Rhetoric: Forgotten or de-legitimized as an ‘intellectual tool’?
It is common to say that rhetoric was ‘forgotten’ in modern times until its 1958
‘revival’ with Perelman and Olbrechts-Tyteca. In previous works, I have argued
that rhetoric was not ‘forgotten’ but de-legitimated as an intellectual tool at the
turn of the 19th
century, for a variety of reasons, some of which excellent, that
cannot be listed here for reasons of limited space.
The ultimate goal of the rhetorician is to build a ‘stronger discourse’; but rhe-
torical discourse is powerless in the face of scientific discourse. Relativity theory
was met with skepticism, which is a quite normal reaction when faced with such
a revolutionary theory. A commonly known anecdote says that, until the 1920s,
it was possible, in the Paris salons, to hear people engaging in grand rhetorical
discourses to refute and ridicule relativity theory as contrary to common sense.
In the following years, such eloquent refutations of relativity totally disappeared,
which may be considered as the final stage of the de-legitimization of rhetoric as
an intellectual-scientific tool. Knowledge society is a society where the classical
instruments of rhetoric, doxa-based substantial knowledge and topical inference
rules are constantly thwarted by scientific knowledge, calculation and method.
In such a context, our concept of argument cannot be restricted either to purely
language-based inferences or to any ‘artistic’ rhetorical or conversational prowess.
3.2  “The two Cultures and the scientific Revolution” (Snow)
The above-described evolution seems to fit the ‘two cultures’ framework, proposed
by Snow (1961) originally in 1959. He opposes there scientists to literary intel-
lectuals as ‘two polar groups’: “Literary intellectuals at one pole – at the other,
scientists, and as the most representative, the physical scientists. Between the two,
a gulf of mutual incomprehension – sometimes (particularly among the young)
hostility and dislike, but most of all lack of understanding” (Snow 1961: 4). As far
as I could check, Snow mentions neither rhetoric nor argumentation; nonetheless,
we know, after Curtius (1948), that rhetoric is at the root of the intellectual world
of this group of writers and literary intellectuals.
The unity of these groups can be questioned. Scientific knowledge has very dif-
ferent social status. I participated once in a seminar about teaching biology at the
secondary level. During the follow up discussion, a researcher in biology, who hap-
pened to be in the audience, maintained that the knowledge contents, which had
just been discussed, were simply false. Generally speaking, it is not uncommon
Argumentation as an intellectual tool in the knowledge society 179
that teachers themselves disagree on their common subject. There may be a kind of
epistemic ‘unity of science,’ but there is no social unity of knowledge.
Following the ‘knowledge society’ hypothesis, Snow’s opposition would now be
outdated. But, whatever may be the social subdivisions of science and scientists,
we do have in our disciplinary background such a foundational gap between ‘those
who argue’ vs. ‘those who demonstrate and prove.’ Let us now try to identify some
aspects of this divide.
3.3  Deepening the gap: On the demonstration side
From the scientific side, Gaston Bachelard radically opposes science to opinion:
Science, in its demand for completeness as well as in its principle, absolutely opposes
opinion. When perchance, on a specific issue, science legitimates opinion, it is always
for reasons other than those which support opinion; so that opinion is by its nature
always wrong.
Opinion thinks poorly – it does not think: it translates needs into knowledge. By referring
to objects through their usefulness, it keeps from knowing them. Nothing can be based on
opinion: it must first be destroyed. It is the first hurdle to overcome. (Bachelard 1938: 14)
Bachelard is 20th
-century French philosopher of science; he introduced the influ-
ential concept of ‘epistemological break,’ which will be further developed by Kuhn,
and is not without relevance for the question under discussion. Bachelard also
extensively wrote about the ‘poetics of the elements,’ poetics of fire, water, earth
and dream – a showcase of the two cultures embodied in one person. So, opinions,
common sense, the substantial basis of argumentative and rhetorical discourse
and thought, have no place in science, and, therefore, in the knowledge society.
On the formal side, reasoned opinions are no better: the ‘reasons that support
opinions’ are bad reasons. Opinions cannot be improved through arguing. Such
a gap is foundational for modern science. It has been theorized by philosophers
such as Locke in his rejection of rhetoric and sharp distinction between ‘four kinds
of arguments.’ Three of them, ad verecundiam, ad ignorantiam and ad hominem,
are just fallacious. Modesty or shyness leads to refrain from criticizing the point
of view of a prestigious reference; nothing can be inferred from our provisional
or definitive incapacity to know, no more than from human contradictions. All
these arguments are subjective, and give no access to objective knowledge, which
is constructed by scientific method and reasoning: “The fourth [kind of argu-
ment] is the using of proofs drawn from any of the foundations of knowledge
and probability. This I call argumentum ad judicium. This alone of all the four
brings true instruction with it and advances us in our way to knowledge” (Locke
[1689] 1959, Chap. 17, § 19–22). This strong opposition between two categories
Christian Plantin
180
of arguments is totally opposed to the spirit of post-Ciceronian typologies or ar-
guments, which recognize a form of validity to a large, open set of arguments in
natural language, ranging from logical argument to their rhetorical counterparts.
Note that Leibniz (1765) will reexamine the set of subjective arguments, and grant
them a kind of validity.
The break between rhetorical argumentation and scientific reasoning appears
clearly in Condillac Treatise on the art of reasoning (1796), where the ‘art of reason-
ing’ is the art of mathematical reasoning, completely dissociated from all kinds of
topoi. For example, the chapter on analogy considers only proportion, that is, what
can be mathematically quantified and calculated (Condillac 1796: 234).
3.4  Deepening the gap: On the argumentation side
Perelman and Olbrechts-Tyteca’s ([1958] 1970) New Rhetoric is explicitly in line
with the tradition opposing the two cultures, sciences and humanities. This oppo-
sition plays a defining role in their construction of the concept of argumentation,
both on the theoretical and practical sides.
On the theoretical side, demonstration is defined along the following lines. In
logic and mathematics, demonstration is as a formal deduction (Perelman and
Olbrechts-Tyteca’s ([1958] 1970: 3, 17, etc.); in natural sciences, it uses mathemati-
cal calculation (p. 1, 261). Demonstration is necessary and compelling (p. 1, 280),
based on self-evidence (p. 1), intellectual self-evidence in logic and mathemat-
ics, as well as material self-evidence in science (p. 651). Its language is univocal
(p. 161), stable and complete (p. 651).
In a marked contrast, argumentation is, by its very nature:
–
– Subjective (p. 426), focused on the adherence of minds (p. 5); its domain is the
plausible, the probable (p. 1); non binding (p. 1), non formal (p. 259), even if it
can disguise under demonstrative or ‘quasi-logical’ forms (p. 259).
–
– Argumentative discourse is contextualized and intentional (p. 325); admits of
the implicit (p. 193, 628), of repetition (p. 236); the meaning of its data has to
be interpreted (p. 161); its various components are interconnected (p. 255) and
ruled by a complex order (p. 649; 655).
The opposition is clear, and more could be added, especially about:
–
– The kind of language used;
–
– The status of contradiction: typically, in an argumentative situation, antagonis-
tic beliefs and decision can be supported by rather good arguments;
–
– Modalities: demonstration is binary, whereas argumentation admits of modals
and of counter-discourse;
Argumentation as an intellectual tool in the knowledge society 181
–
– Iterative capacities: arguments have limited capacities of iteration, i.e., in linked
argumentations, conclusions are less and less compelling, whereas scientific
inferences appear to deliver equally well-established and more and more inter-
esting conclusions. The conclusion of a demonstration can be detached from
the demonstrative chain and used independently, whereas in argumentation
conclusions have precisely the strength of the underlying arguments support-
ing them, and cannot be detached from the argument chain. Argumentations
do not have the fantastic cumulative capacity of science.
This carefully constructed theoretical gap between demonstration and argumenta-
tion has precise practical consequences concerning the data under investigation.
According to the Treatise, argumentation studies focus on:
[…] the kind of evidence [Fr. moyens de preuve, ‘means of proof’] used in human sciences,
law and philosophy: we will examine the argumentations brought forward by publicists
in their newspapers, by politicians in their discourses, by lawyers in their plea, by judges
motivating their judgments, by philosophers in their treatises. (Perelman, Olbrechts-
Tyteca [1958] 1970: 13)
No mention is made of any kind of scientific activity. The opposition between
argumentation and demonstration is shared implicitly or explicitly by many argu-
mentation theories. For example, for the ‘argumentation within language theory,’
argumentation is just ‘a dream of discourse’:
It has often been noted that everyday discourse cannot be equivalent to a ‘demonstration’
in the slightest logical sense of the word […]. Initially, we thought we were just continu-
ing this tradition, with the only special feature to ground in the nature of language this
contrast between demonstration by argumentation. […]. But I think now that we have
to say more. Not only words cannot build up a demonstration, they cannot build up
this degraded form of demonstration that would be argumentation. Argumentation is
nothing more than a dream of discourse, and our theory should be called ‘theory of non-
argumentation’. (Ducrot 1993: 234)
There is nothing so new in this antagonism, and it is possible to trace it back to
Aristotle’s distinction between three kinds of reasoning:
–
– Scientific, logical reasoning, producing categorical knowledge, that is true
knowledge, or knowledge strictly speaking. Such reasoning derives truth from
true premises by valid rules.
–
– Dialectical reasoning, which produces probable knowledge. Such reasoning de-
rives probable truths from basic, probable but indemonstrable propositions, by
valid rules. Dialectical knowledge is not grounded in truth, but respects the prin-
ciple of non-contradiction. Practically, it corresponds to good ex datis deduction.
Christian Plantin
182
–
– Rhetorical reasoning is aimed at persuasion; ‘persuasive knowledge’ is a mode
of reasoning adapted to social conditions. The Greek word pistis means ‘faith,
persuasion,’ and would translate more into ‘means of pressure’ than ‘proof’.
Peithô, ‘persuasion as a goddess’ (Liddell17
) is a companion of Aphrodite, the
goddess of seduction, from whom she is almost indistinguishable.
The same kind of opposition is also to be found in the distinction between the
so-called ‘technical’ and ‘non-technical’ proof, i.e., between rhetorical proof (as
‘means of pressure, instrument of conviction’) and other kinds of proof (through
direct witness testimony, contracts, etc.). The problem with this terminology is
that, nowadays, the meaning is reversed: the ‘non–technical’ proofs are what we
have to call ‘technical’ and ‘scientific’.
The Corax-Tisias anecdote perfectly illustrates one basic characteristic of rhe-
torical argument, the possibility of reversal. Corax, the teacher, has accepted the
private contract proposed by Tisias, according to which: if I, Tisias, win my first
case, I’ll pay you, Corax, for your teaching; if not, I won’t. Then Tisias goes to the
court arguing that he has nothing to pay. If the court agrees, under this decision,
he has nothing to pay; if the court disagrees, under the private contract, he has
nothing to pay. This wonderful anecdote perfectly illustrates the interplay between
general law and private convention, but it is especially counter-productive when
addressing a scientific audience, when used to show that natural discourse has
the power to prove and disprove anything: very funny indeed, but this is not our
playground.
The divorce appears complete, but there are happy divorces, which make both
partners more comfortable. It might be the case here: two ‘comfort zones’ are
delimited for two kinds of professional identities, roughly ‘the hard scientist’ and
‘the soft humanist.’
3.5  Difference: Action vs. knowledge
So, the negative tradition runs from the benevolent ‘counterpart’ vision (Aristotle)
to the sharp contrast drawn by philosophers like Locke and Bachelard between
scientific demonstration and argumentation, always fallacious because subjective
(dealing with human needs); arguments may have some psychological cogency,
but are not deductively (or inductively) valid. The wall remains between arguing
and proving.
17	 Middle Liddel, retrieved from Peitho, http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/hopper/morph?l=
pei%2Fqw&la=greek#lexicon. (Last accessed: 01.01.2016)
Argumentation as an intellectual tool in the knowledge society 183
But it could be argued that all this talk is misguided, and leads to a dead end,
since argumentation is basically not about pure, strong or weak knowledge; it is
just about the best knowledge we can gather to apply to what we want to do. Ar-
gumentation is about practical knowledge applied to a specific practical choice,
preserving our best personal or common interest; remember Bachelard (1938: 14),
opinion “[refers] to objects through their usefulness.” So, criticizing argument for
not being deductively compelling because of its inherent subjectivity is just like
trying to cut your meat with a fork and blaming it for not being a knife. So, the
opposition between the two cultures appears now more as a kind of allocation of
roles between knowledge and action-oriented thinking.
4.  Looking for bridging points
Nevertheless, in both cases, we are left with two modes of reasoning, one for each
culture, demonstration and pure knowledge, or argumentation and action. The
obvious problem is that in contemporary societies, volens nolens, social action is
knowledge-based, and that rhetoric and argumentation, as tools for managing
human affairs, must face the consequences, that is to say, prepare to meet with
science; this point will be developed in section five.
First, let us fully recognize that the opposition between ‘the culture of argu-
ment’ and ‘the culture of demonstration, of scientific proof,’ is grounded in some
reality, sad as it may be; to deny it would be counterproductive, confusing and
somewhat ridiculous. But it can be argued that contact fields do exist, and that it
might be a fascinating challenge to try to develop a trend of studies in rhetorical
argumentation starting from these privileged fields.
4.1 Argumentation with Demonstration: Same genre
Yet, however stringent the opposition may be between the culture of ordinary argu-
ment and the culture of scientific proof, something must be said about their com-
monalities. Their differences make sense only because they belong to a same genre,
inferential discourse. Like demonstration, argumentation is an indirect assertion of
belief, both belonging to the genre ‘knowledge by inference.’ Knowledge by infer-
ence is opposed to direct assertion of truth, firsthand knowledge, direct assertion of
self-evident truth as given either by sense data, or by intellectual ‘clear and distinct’
ideas, or by religious revelation. To characterize this basic feature of argumentation,
Blair uses the expression ‘illative move,’ defined as a movement that goes
[…] from the basis or starting point of the reasoning or argument to the upshot that is
inferred or alleged to follow from that basis. Some call it an inference, others call it an
Christian Plantin
184
implication, others call it a premise-conclusion link and others call it a consequence
relation. (Blair 2012: 103)
The illative move goes from the argument (the ancient, the given) to the new, from
what is already known to new knowledge, the conclusion.
Moreover, argument, like proof, is a variety of nomological thinking; the move
‘from argument to conclusion’ is made via a topos. As such, argument is widely
described as a mode of reasoning. As mentioned above, Ducrot has a serious dis-
senting note on that point; a discourse such as he is smart, he solved the problem
has only the appearance of deduction; actually, the meaning of be smart is precisely
‘being able to solve a problem.’ In other words, such inferences are language-given,
the deduction is analytical; it does not bring out new, non-linguistic knowledge.
This objection must be addressed, in any course on argumentation approached
as a kind of reasoning. First, it can be used as a starting point for further thinking
about the non-transparency of language, that is, the structuring power of language,
which brings us a step closer to rhetoric. Second, it should be stressed that not all
discursive inferences are just manifestations of such analytical argumentation, the
well-known Toulmin case being a good example of such an inference bringing out
substantial new knowledge: Harry was born in Bermuda, so, probably, he is a British
citizen – because, as you know, people born in Bermuda are British Citizens.
The following paragraphs shift the focus, from broad epistemic issues to down-
to-earth practices.
4.2  Proof by argument
Full importance must be given to the fact that ordinary argumentation, well docu-
mented and based on good observation, can be conclusive ‘beyond reasonable
doubt’ (as opposed to the Corax-Tisias perpetual reversal).
For example, in the mid-19th
century, scholars were confronted with the relative
dating problem of a series of manuscripts of Ovid’s Metamorphosis.
One scholar
noticed that a page of Manuscript X had been torn out;
looked for the corresponding passage in the other manuscripts;
found that their text was not clear;
and drew the legitimate conclusion that all these manuscripts derive from Manuscript X.
4.3  Demonstration as a discursive technique
Argumentation studies are all about ‘discursive techniques’ (Perelman and Olbre-
chts-Tyteca ([1958] 1970: 5); for example, can elementary Euclidean geometry
Argumentation as an intellectual tool in the knowledge society 185
be considered as such a discursive technique? If not, what are the differences?
Let us consider the theorem: the measures of the interior angles of a triangle are
equal to 180°.18
Figure 1.
First, the demonstration legitimately draws on contextually available information,
left unexpressed in this passage. This background information includes a general
definition of a triangle (a closed three-sides figure), and the elements of vocabulary
attached to this definition (three vertices, three interior angles formed at each
vertex by the two adjacent sides). These three operations (context-dependence,
background information, word definition) are routinely at work in everyday
discourse. Students certainly have the same difficulty to stabilize the associated
representation in the case of any background-controlled discourse, whether in
elementary geometry, or in history or philosophy.
The demonstration based on an unspecified ABC triangle is not a case of
visual argumentation. The triangle functions as a visual shortcut, condensing
18	 The following demonstration, or ‘proof’, can be found at: https://www.mathsisfun.com/
proof180deg.html. (Last accessed 17.05.2015).
Christian Plantin
186
and materializing all the necessary information the student needs to know to
proceed to the theorem (Plantin, 2016). Such situations articulating a discourse
with a material situation are common in everyday communicative transaction,
and should be considered as a standard argumentative situation, on a par with a
purely language-based rhetorical encounter (Corax and Tisias again).
Then comes the proper demonstration, which calls for a specific initiative from
students: drawing a line parallel to AB and going through C. Drawing this line
is the ‘eureka’ idea. It implies seeing the triangle, that is, the data, not as an inde-
pendent, fixed object but as an object to be included in an abstract open space
of lines and shapes:
Angle A1 and angle A are alternate angles on two parallel lines
SO, They are congruent (theorem previously demonstrated)
Angle B1 and angle B are alternate angles, SO, they are congruent
SO, A1 + C + B1 add up to 180°; SO, A + B + C add up to 180°
The demonstration applies general laws to a particular case (quite in agreement
with a basic interpretation of the Toulmin 1958 model); the discursive line is
well, these two angles are alternate angles on two parallel lines, so they are equal –
because, remember, two angles are alternate angles on two parallel lines are equal.
Of course, this demonstration makes use of arithmetic and logic, but this is
not specific to demonstration; everyday argumentation does involve some basic
arithmetic, logic and geometry.
4.4  Science education and socio-scientific issues
The following paragraphs argue that under certain circumstances argumentation
and demonstration do meet, and need to be coordinated to reach a common
goal. Undisputable examples of such situations are, first and foremost, situations
of scientific knowledge acquisition (section 4.4.1) and socio-scientific discussion
about the impact of the various techno-scientific knowledge and wizardry on
people and societies (section 4.4.2).
Science education can be seen as a collaborative enterprise, where teachers and
researchers specialists of a specific scientific area are interested in collaborating
with specialists of argumentation, language and interaction analysis. This is at
least the kind of research project I had the opportunity to participate in, and I will
speak from experiences developed in different settings, such as teaching natural
argumentation to future science teachers, taking part in doctoral seminars and in
multidisciplinary data-based investigations on science education.
Argumentation as an intellectual tool in the knowledge society 187
4.4.1  Toddling into demonstration
The data. The following example is taken from elementary mathematic education
(Arsac et al. 1992: 65 ff.). The question is: Is there a triangle whose sides measure
5cm, 9cm, 4 cm?
P1	 — yes, look at that one!
P2	 — no, there is not!
This is a prototypical opening of an argumentative situation; good reasons follow:
P1 	 — well, it does exist, look! [Ben si, ça existe, regarde!]
P2	 — 
such a triangle does not exist, I don’t know why I say that, but it does not exist
[ça existe pas, je sais pas pourquoi je dis ça mais ça existe pas]
	 — how can you do that? [comment veux-tu faire ça?]
Argumentation in science education typically deals with this kind of data.
Argumentation, an integral part of science education. Let us distinguish first
demonstration as a product and demonstration as a process, that is, on the one
side, science in the making: the construction of demonstration in a ‘context of
discovery,’ and, on the other side, the exposition of demonstration as a product,
in a ‘context of justification’. In the conventional approach, argumentation is con-
fronted with demonstration as a product (see section 4.4.2), and I have neither the
capacity nor the intention to discuss science as a laboratory product. The discus-
sion is limited to the role of argumentation in the process of science education.
The general policy we propose is quite simple: when learning to demonstrate and
prove in science, exploit the manifold resources of everyday argumentation up to
the point where it is in your best interest to leave it aside.
“Argumentation, in whatever sense it is conveyed, is an integral part of science
education” (Jiménez-Aleixandre and Erduran 2007: 32). Such claims are com-
monly found in the literature on science education, where arguing is now widely
regarded as a characteristic feature of scientific culture:
For those who do science, argumentative discourse holds a unique place. It is used to dem-
onstrate the productions of scientists in the analysis of research (i); in research publication
(ii), in writing scientific articles (iii), presenting current investigation (iv), and specially
to convince of the necessity to invest money in new research (v). In a word, arguing is
a characteristic feature of scientific culture. (Martins Teixeira 2008: 36; my numbering)
The corresponding paper makes no mention at all of the problems we tried to
discuss in the preceding sections; the gap argumentation/demonstration seems to
have disappeared, with all the precise distinctions it synthetizes. It does not even
allude to any classical arguing formats (judiciary), or, even, in its own field to argu-
ing about socio-scientific issues. Likewise, it could be criticized for conflating quite
Christian Plantin
188
different activities: (i) arguing in the discovery process, demonstration as a process;
(ii) demonstration as a result; re-shaping demonstration to fit (iii) the publication
conventions of such a journal or (iv) the oral presentation structures of such a com-
munity; (v) arguing in a political context trying to influence a decision.
Nonetheless, this quotation is characteristic of a powerful trend in science
education, that has been developing now for more than twenty years: the ap-
propriation of the concept of argument by the science education community,
sometimes without paying too much respect to what we, rhetoricians, consider
as well established authorities in the field of argumentation, with the exception
of Toulmin. Argumentation is no more considered as antagonistic to scientific
knowledge, but as a tool to access this knowledge. This new perspective is linked
with a broad pedagogical context, where teachers want to shift from an authoritar-
ian to a democratic vision of education, to promote teacher-student and student-
student debate, and promote the involvement of students in their formation. Most
important, the task of science education is re-defined as an ‘enculturation process,’
that is, an activity not only focused on conceptual knowledge, but also on the
social functioning of science, the constitution of a community of learners, devel-
oping the same discourse.
More precisely, Jiménez-Aleixandre and Erduran (2007) mention five good
reasons “to introduce argumentation in the science classroom,” as supporting:
1.	
The access to the cognitive and metacognitive processes. […]
2.	
The development of communication competences and particularly critical thinking.
[…]
3.	
The achievement of scientific literacy and empowering the student to talk and write
the language of science. […]
4.	
The enculturation into the practices of the scientific culture and the development of
epistemic criteria for knowledge evaluation. […]
5.	
The development of reasoning, particularly the choice of theories or positions based
on rational criteria. […] (Jiménez-Aleixandre, Erduran 2007: 5)
Points 2 and 5 echo our own preoccupations about communication, critical think-
ing, reasoning, primacy of rational criteria; all the same for evaluation (point 4).
We just have to integrate that scientific literacy (point 3) is now part of literacy in
general.
On the basis of these five good reasons, we should easily socialize with our
colleagues of the science education field. Nonetheless, no community would be
cohesive without also a common set of complaints, such as those focused on by
Garcia-Mila and Andersen (2007: 33): students have three main difficulties “tak-
ing into account what the other say; making a distinction between data and claim;
[and] supplementing a plausible warranting background.”
Argumentation as an intellectual tool in the knowledge society 189
Let us say a word about the second point. Making the distinction between data
and claim distinction is not an easy task. Identifying the sources and devising a
treatment of this difficulty should be considered as major practical tasks for argu-
mentation teachers. Classroom discussions do not begin necessarily with claims;
claims emerge in the development of discussion. Engaging in an argument is a
difficult task and potentially risky for the face and its loss and for damaging group
relationships, etc. It is quite a normal reaction to try to avoid it, and the first step
to do it is to avoid identifying the situation under analysis as a field of competing
claims. Let us admit that the students are in a proper argumentative mood, and
consider first the problem of identifying data and claims made in ordinary written
texts (newspapers). Let us admit, too, that the texts are submitted to the pupils in
the course of well-organized activities. Nonetheless, even if these external condi-
tions are met the remaining difficulties are manifold.
–
– First, one can argue that sometimes students find it hard to identify data, and
claim just because the documents under examination themselves fail to do so
clearly.
–
– Second, in an argumentative situation, any argument can easily be turned down
as being just an arbitrary claim:
P1	 — Peter is an expert, he says P, so P.
P2	 — Sorry, you have made three claims and no argument.
i.e. 	 Peter isn’t an expert (you still have to prove that he is).
	  	 Peter never said P.
–
– Third, in a developing argument, the same proposition can appear as a claim
and, a moment later, as an argument for a second claim (example in section 4.2).
–
– Fourth, and most important, ordinary language routinely blurs the distinc-
tion. For example, this is dangerous, (so) take care! You should not do that, it
is absurd! In other words, the conclusion is contained in the argument, and
argumentation is ‘a dream of language’ (see section 2.5). This phenomenon,
a variant of the classical petitio principii, has been studied under the heading
of ‘biased language’ by informal logic theorists (Blair 2012), and extensively
discussed in the argumentation within language theory, which is actually a
linguistic theory of meaning as ‘orientation’ (Plantin 2016).
–
– Fifth, argumentation begins before the introduction of arguments; the data/
claim opposition is second to the argumentative question itself. Let us consider
a topic of social interest, for example the use of pesticides / phyto-sanitary / plant
protection products in agriculture. The existence of an argumentative question
in this area (question mirrored in a variety of designations) is part of general
knowledge: can they cause cancer? In other words, there is no argumentation
Christian Plantin
190
without proper social and technical knowledge, and the potential existence of
argumentative questions is part of this knowledge.
4.4.2  Arguing about socio-scientific issues
Argumentation has always been considered as a key tool for the management of
human affairs, and human affairs are now systematically affected by techno-sci-
entific developments (see also Kowalski, this volume). The traditional belief that
the techno-scientific system is able to take in charge all the problems of humanity
and to systematically improve the human condition now strikes many as naive
and counterfactual. As a correlate, science popularization, previously framed as
an interaction between a qualified expert and an ignorant layperson, is now better
seen under a more critical note, as basically an interaction between citizens. The
task of scientific information, certainly more pressing than ever, is now placed
against a social background in which the very orientation of scientific investiga-
tion and technological developments are routinely questioned and confronted
with the rational and irrational hopes and fears of ordinary people.
The organization of such discussions is itself an authentic field of research. For
example, the proposal made by Pablo Jensen (1998) about the ‘science cafés’ (cafés
des sciences) has developed into different frames, influencing for example the
Barômetro – Ciência, Café e debate concept in Brazil (Barômetro) or the Arguvote
concept in France (Niccolai and Plantin 2013). Such new settings are especially
relevant for a documented study of interaction between spontaneous knowledge
and scientific knowledge (Niccolai and Plantin 2013; Polo 2014). As a conse-
quence, the study of arguments about socio-scientific issues, led in a wide range of
traditional or new settings, has emerged as a new field for argumentation studies
(Albe 2009; Simonneaux and Legardez 2011).
Classical argumentative moves are at work in these discussions. Let us briefly
consider the following text, an isolated piece in the ocean of problems and discus-
sions about pesticides / phyto-sanitary / plant protection products.
“Bees exposed to high levels of pesticides suspected in colony collapse”
July 24, 2013 | By Geoffrey Mohan
Pesticides sprayed on crops could be making honeybees susceptible to a fatal parasite and
contributing to recent declines in bee populations, according to a study. […]
Pesticides, along with climate change, habitat destruction and handling practices that
expose bees to exotic pathogens, are among the factors blamed for the catastrophic col-
lapses of colonies of domesticated honeybees worldwide.
Argumentation as an intellectual tool in the knowledge society 191
Of particular concern to the researchers was the presence of fungicides, two of which
(chlorothalonil and pyraclostrobin) were associated with increased risk of infestation
with fatal Nosema gut parasites. Two other chemicals commonly used by beekeepers
to control mites (2,4 dimethylphenyl formamide and fluvalinate) also were associated
with significantly greater risk of infection with Nosema spores, according to the report.
Fungicides generally do not carry the warnings found on packaging of other agricultural
chemicals that suggest farmers not apply them while blossoms are present and bees are
foraging, vanEngelsdorp noted. […]
Los Angeles Times19
First, this paper elaborates upon a relation between two facts:
P: “exposition to a high level of pesticides”
D: “decline in bee populations”
A tentative, carefully worded relation is established between the two phenomena:
(Title) P suspected in D
§1 P could … contribute to D
§3 P … among the factors blamed for D
§3 some P … risk of infestations by …
These wordings point towards the assertion of a causal relation, and clearly do not
want to assert anything beyond what has been scientifically proved.
The text does not establish the causal relation; it merely reports the result of ‘a
study,’ which does the job. Up to that point, the text is merely informative about
the developments, still in progress, of a scientific investigation tending to estab-
lish a causal relation. As such, this is routine scientific work, “A is a determining
factor of B.”
Second, a rhetorical, pragmatic argument is construed from this relation. It is
grounded in a negative valuation of the process, related with a reasoned emotion
(Plantin 2011).
–
– Bees are popular in our culture. They are linked with positive affects: like gods,
they feed on honey and nectar; they live in hives (+ activity); they are positive
heroes (Maya the bee).
–
– Pesticides are supposed to kill pests (‘an animal or insect that causes problems
for people especially by damaging crops’),20
not bees.
19	 Available at: http://articles.latimes.com/2013/jul/24/science/la-sci-sn-ss-pesticides-
20130723, our numbering (Last accessed 29.09.2013).
20	 http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/pest (Last accessed 05.12.2015).
Christian Plantin
192
–
– The negative evaluation of the process is explicitly carried out in the expression
catastrophic collapse (cf. also suspected, to blame).
Third, the conclusion of the pragmatic argument is about something that should
be done about that, and is not (§5). This text perfectly illustrates the complex
situation where scientific investigation and social consideration have to combine.
5.  Looking for a common language
We began with the ‘two cultures’ idea, then turned to science and socio-scientific
education – two domains that appear to rely on argumentation techniques, and
argued that classical argumentation studies and science education do have shared
goals and preoccupations. In this last section, we would like to give some hints at
what could be a common analytical and pedagogical language. Such a common
language cannot be defined on a priori grounds; it will grow and mature according
to its user’s needs. The following suggestions are drawn from the experience of
different seminars on argumentation for different audiences of science teachers
interested in both the conceptual and social aspects of their profession.
5.1  Re-starting with Toulmin
Toulmin (1958) is a basic reference on argumentation in science education, and
an absolute must to start with. Toulmin’s ‘scheme of argument’ is much criticized,
and considered as an unsophisticated, boring and worn out issue, etc. Nonethe-
less, it is an excellent point of departure, and one can go a pretty long way with
his ‘layout of argument,’ including due reservations and criticisms.
Argumentation as ‘unless-reasoning’. According to Reiter (1980: 81), default
reasoning “corresponds to the process of deriving conclusions based upon pat-
terns of inference of the form ‘in the absence of any information to the contrary,
assume….’” Defeasible reasoning is another name for this process:
Reasoning is defeasible when the corresponding argument is rationally compelling but
not deductively valid. The truth of the premises of a good defeasible argument provide
support for the conclusion, even though it is possible for the premises to be true and the
conclusion false. (Koons 2014: 1)
This kind of reasoning is also known as ‘conditional’ or ‘circumstantial’ reason-
ing. Whatever may be the reasons for such an abundance of designations, the fact
remains that all these forms find a rather solid and clear expression in Toulmin’s
layout; as a reminder consider Figure 2. below:
Argumentation as an intellectual tool in the knowledge society 193
Figure 2.
Under a dialogical reading, two subsystems can be distinguished in this layout:
–
– On the one side, an affirmative subsystem (A), or the ‘default argument scheme’:
{Data, Claim, Warrant, Backing}
–
– And on the other side, a rebuttal subsystem (R):
{Modal, Rebuttal}
(R) is based on a checking-list, defining situations under which the positive rea-
soning does not apply, in other words circumstances under which the application
of system A is cancelled. An example:
If she is an expert, I believe what she says, (Data, Claim; Warrant and Backing not ex-
pressed) unless I discover that she is paid to say what she says (Modal, Rebuttal).
This interpretation highlights the mixed character of argumentation, both infer-
ential and dialectical.
The disappearance of the rebuttal: From argument to proof. The use of argu-
ment contains not only the well-known ‘layout’ of argument but also the very
seldom mentioned layout of scientific proof:
Christian Plantin
194
Figure 3.
We can see that the layout of argument, according to Toulmin, is precisely the same
as the layout of calculation and proof: both are expressed by the A subsystem.
The difference with proof is that proof is non-dialectical; there are no cancelling
conditions (R) (note that the R system has exactly the same inferential structure).
The comparison between the two schemes proves to be an excellent basis for
discussion and for introducing natural reasoning not as ‘weak,’ ‘imprecise’ or
‘vague’, but as subject to an extremely complex set of rebuttal conditions.
5.2  Method in argument: Topoi
The concept of argument schemes (or argument line, or topoi) is not frequently
used in the literature about argumentation in science acquisition. Some formula-
tions even suggest an incompatibility between argument schemes and Toulmin’s
‘pattern of argument’: “the analysis employing the Walton schemes demonstrates
that individuals bring a great more to argumentation than are identified by strict
analytical schemes or rhetorical schemes like Toulmin’s ‘argument pattern’”
(Duschl 2007: 172). But the concept of argument line is fully consistent with
Toulmin’s layout of argument. Actually, Toulmin’s pattern of argument is based on
the concept of topos. Warrant and backing are topoi: Bird (1961) has conclusively
argued this point in a review of Toulmin. Moreover, Ehninger and Brockriede
(1960) proposed an interpretation of Toulmin clearly specifying Warrants and
Backing as topoi; and, finally, in An Introduction to Reasoning Toulmin, Rieke and
Janik (1984) proposed their own set of ‘forms of reasoning.’
All is clear on this side. The problem comes from the number and diversity of
argument schemes. Are they equally productive and relevant from the point of view
of science acquisition and socio-scientific discussions? What kind of argument line
should be brought to the fore? A case-by-case approach is needed to answer these
questions.
Figure 3. 195
In principle, all kinds of schemes can appear when students and laypersons are
discussing science, but some kinds of argument are less relevant in such a context.
Let us consider Aristotle’s topos 5, a contribution to the logic of deeds and rewards:
Another line of argument is based on considerations of time. Thus, Iphicrates, in the case
of Harmodius said ‘if before doing the deed I had bargained that, if I did it, I should have
a statue, you would have given me one. Will you not give me one now that I have done
the deed?’ (Aristotle, Rhetoric 1397b)
This topos is certainly productive; one can imagine a schoolboy coming back
home with an unexpected good grade. But it is not central in the case of an ‘ar-
gumentation for scientist’ course.
The topos from the opposites is a quite common and powerful resource for
ordinary reasoning; under Aristotle’s wording:
One line of positive proof is based upon considerations of the opposite of the thing in
question. Observe that opposite has the opposite quality. If it has not, you refute the
original proposition; if it has, you establish it. (Aristotle, Rhetoric 1399b)
Enthymeme:
It took billions of years and ideal conditions before humans appeared on the planet, may be
one global warming will be enough to make it disappear.
(+) Time, (+) Conditions = Appearance
SO: (–) Time (–) Conditions = Disappearance
Such reasoning has a practical import. Traditionally, milk was given to miners
intoxicated by silicosis; no doubt that since black coal made them sick, certainly
white milk will cure them.
The topos appears as number 1 in Aristotle’s terminology, and rightly so if we
consider its extended use in common discourse. It is clearly logically invalid (it
confuses necessary and sufficient conditions), and nonetheless difficult to evalu-
ate, as it is strongly dependent on the implicit context of its utterance. But it is a
reflex resource, even in a science education context:
–
– it shines, so it’s hot
–
– look at my earrings, they shine too.
Two students are exploring the functioning of a Low Frequency Generator.
Question:
What can you hear?
–
– when the LFG is on, we hear, and when it’s off we don’t
–
– but listen, now it’s on and you hear nothing.
Christian Plantin
196
This argumentative situation developed into a fantastic negotiation about sense
data, hearing something or not. The conclusion is that any argument scheme,
however fallacious it may be, can nonetheless appear in a scientific discussion
between students, a fortiori in discussing socio-scientific issues. So, a thorough
knowledge of the mechanism of argument schemes is, in all cases, a requisite for
understanding and analyzing naturally occurring interactions in such situations.
Argumentation is rightly considered the instrument of critical reasoning
simply because it is an art of thinking in ordinary language. As seen above, this
capacity has been neglected, even denied in some recent research; as rhetori-
cal, argumentation was seen as a communication-oriented activity, more than
a knowledge-oriented activity, more appropriate to deal with knowledge trans-
actions than with knowledge building. The roots of this long trend have to be
looked for in the Renaissance, when, as Ong (1958) puts it in the title of his
book, the rise of scientific ‘method’ was accompanied with a ‘decay of dialogue.’
I would like to argue for the re-introduction of method in the teaching of argu-
ment along the following lines.
Let us take a typical argumentation dealing with human affairs, a pragmatic
argument, such as the use of pesticides is fatal to bees (argument), so let us forbid /
restrain their use (conclusion) (see section 3.2). This argumentation uses (is based
on) a causal relation, considered as previously established; in other words, the rhe-
torical argumentation presupposes the existence of a causal relation scientifically
demonstrated. Now, an opponent can raise doubts about this causal relation even
if the proponent considers its truth as established beyond reasonable doubt. As
a consequence, the proponent has to defend its argument (A), and to do this she
must demonstrate effective competencies in the scientific discussions involved in
the demonstration of such a complex causal issue. That is, under attack, the pro-
ponent arguing previously on social grounds and values must transform herself
into a scientific arguer, exhibiting decent substantial knowledge and practice of
causal methodology.
To remain relevant in a knowledge society, arguments in human affairs cannot
be divorced from knowledge-based arguments. In order to address this challenge,
an adequate course in argumentation must integrate a chapter about causal meth-
odology, which will be best done in collaboration with colleagues specialized in
the relevant fields. The situation would be exactly the same for analogy, definition,
categorization and authority. With causality, they should be considered as the five
‘master argument schemes’ for a methodology-oriented course of argumentation.
Figure 3. 197
6. Conclusions
As a member of one of the two cultures, I was once criticized by a colleague from
the other culture in the following way: “we, scientists, are dealing with objects,
not with words, as you do.” My answer was of course that she, too, had to deal
with words and language – even with several kinds of languages – and that natural
language too has its ways to deal with real world objects.
This chapter has tried to suggest that we are not jailed in a supposedly comfort-
able but finally sterile opposition of scientific proof to rhetorical argument – by
‘we’ I mean the community interested in argument analysis in the framework of
classical argumentative rhetoric. We are even especially well equipped for a fruit-
ful collaboration with our partners from the other culture working on science
education and social implications of science and technologies.
–
– We belong to the great family of the lovers of illation, that is, justified belief.
–
– We have some fundamental set of topoi that appear quite relevant when it
comes to the structure of reality.
–
– We do believe in the capacity of dialogue to implement truth and rationality.
–
– We know that, to survive, intellectual traditions have to adapt to new circum-
stances.
–
– And, finally, we are interested in fascinating facts: first, natural language, with
all its vague and insufficient resources, has the extraordinary capacity to give
birth to formal and technical scientific languages; second, we are currently
experiencing the necessity to re-combine these languages, if we are to go out
and face the challenge of a world with 400 CO2 particles for every million air
particles.
Acknowledgements
My thanks are due to the LABEX ASLAN (ANR-10-LABX-0081) Lyon Univer-
sity for the support provided to this research project (Program “Investissements
d’Avenir,” ANR-11-IDEX-0007).
References
Albe, V. 2013. Enseigner des controverses. Rennes: Presses Universitaires de Rennes.
Anscombre, J-C.; Ducrot, O. 1983. L’argumentation dans la langue. Liège: Mardaga.
Aristotle. Edition 2005. Poetics and Rhetoric. With an Introduction and Notes by
E. Garver. New York: Barnes and Noble.
Christian Plantin
198
Arsac, G.; Chapiron, G.; Colonna, A.; Germain, G.; Guichard, Y.; Mante, M.
1992. Initiation au raisonnement déductif au collège. Lyon: PUL – IREM.
Bachelard, G. 1938. La formation de l’esprit scientifique. Paris: PUL.
Barômetro – Ciência, Café e debate. Available at: https://dspaceprod02.grude.
ufmg.br/barometro/ pages/pub/menupublico.faces. (Last accessed 02.01.2016)
Bird, O. 1961. “The re-discovery of the topics Professor Toulmin’s inference war-
rant.” Mind (70), 76–96.
Blair, J. A. 2012 [2007]. “The ‘Logic’ of Informal Logic.” In Blair, J. A. Ground-
work in the theory of argumentation. Selected Papers. Dordrecht etc.: Springer,
101–107.
Buty, Ch.; Plantin, Ch. (eds.) 2009a. Argumenter en classe de sciences – Du débat
à l’apprentissage. Lyon: INRP/ENS Éditions.
Buty Ch.; Plantin Ch. 2009b. “Variété des modes de validation des arguments en
classe de science.” In Buty, Ch.; Plantin, Ch. (eds.) 2009a. Argumenter en classe
de sciences – Du débat à l’apprentissage. Lyon: INRP/ENS Éditions, 235–280.
Cicero. Edition 2006 [1949]. On invention. Trans. by H. M. Hubbell. Harvard:
Cambridge University Press.
Cicéron. Edition 1990 [1924]. “Topiques.” In Divisions de l’art oratoire – Topiques.
Trans. by H. Bornecque. Paris: Les Belles Lettres.
Condillac, E. B. de. 1981 [1796]. Traité de l’art de raisonner. (“Reprises”). Paris: Vrin.
Curtius, E. R. 1948. Europäische Literatur und lateinisches Mittelalter. Berne –
Munich: Francke.
Duschl, R. A. 2008. “Quality argumentation and epistemic criteria.” In Erduran, S.;
Jiménez-Aleixandre, M.-P. (eds.) Argumentation in science education – perspec-
tives from classroom-based research. Dordrecht etc.: Springer, 159–175.
Ehninger D.; Brockriede, W. 1983 [1960]. “Toulmin on argument: An Interpreta-
tion and application.” In Golden, J. L.; Berquist, G. F.; Coleman, W. E. (eds.) The
Rhetoric of Western Thought. [3 ed.]. Dubuque, IA.: Kendall, 121–130.
Erduran, S.; Jiménez-Aleixandre, M.-P. (eds.) 2008. Argumentation in science edu-
cation – perspectives from classroom-based research. Dordrecht etc.: Springer.
Follesdal Dagfinn, W.; Elster, J. 1986. Rationales Argumentation. Ein Grundkurs in
Argumentations- und Wissenschafttheorie. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Garcia-Mila, M.; Andersen, Ch. 2007. Cognitive Foundations of Learning argu-
mentation. In Erduran, S.; Jiménez-Aleixandre, M.-P. (eds.) Argumentation in
science education – perspectives from classroom-based research. Dordrecht etc.:
Springer, 29–45.
Grize, J.-B. 1996. Logique naturelle et communication. Paris: PUF.
Hamblin, Ch. L. 1970. Fallacies. London: Methuen.
Figure 3. 199
Jensen, P. 1998. “Chercheurs, citoyens: au café (des sciences)!.” Le Monde,
22.12.1998.
Erduran, S.; Jiménez-Aleixandre, M.-P. 2007. “Argumentation in science edu-
cation: an overview.” In Erduran, S.; Jiménez-Aleixandre, M.-P. (eds.) Argu-
mentation in science education – perspectives from classroom-based research.
Dordrecht etc.: Springer, 3–27.
Leibniz, G. W. 1966 [1765]. Nouveaux essais sur l’entendement humain. Chrono-
logy and introduction by J. Brunschwig. Paris: Garnier-Flammarion.
Locke, J. 1959 [1689]. An essay concerning human understanding. 2 vol. New York:
Dover.
Muller-Mirza, N.; Perret-Clermont, N. (eds) 2009. Argumentation and education –
theoretical foundations and practices. Dordrecht etc.: Springer.
Nadeau, R. 1964. “Hermogenes’ On Stases: a translation with an introduction and
notes.” Speech Monographs (31), 361–424.
Niccolaï, G.; Plantin, Ch. 2013. “Les Cafés des sciences: un nouveau terrain
pour l’analyse de l’argumentation.” In Sergo, L.; Wienen, U.; Atayan, V. (eds.)
Fachsprache(n) in der Romania – Entwicklung, Verwendung, Übersetzung. Ber-
lIn Frank & Timme, 333–358.
Ong, W. J. 1958. Ramus. Method and the decay of dialogue. Cambridge: Harvard
University Press.
Perelman, Ch.; Olbrechts-Tyteca, L. 1970. Traité de l’argumentation – La Nouvelle
rhétorique. [3 ed.] Bruxelles: Éditions de l’Université de Bruxelles.
Plantin, Ch. 2009. “A place for figures of speech in argumentation theory.” Argu-
mentation 23 (3), 325–337.
Plantin, Ch. 2011. Les bonnes raisons des émotions. Principes et méthodes pour
l’étude de la parole émotionnée. Bern etc.: Peter Lang.
Plantin, Ch. 2016. Dictionnaire de l’argumentation.  Une introduction concep-
tuelle aux études d’argumentation. Lyon: ENS Éditions.
Polo, C. 2014. ‘L’eau à la bouche’: ressources et travail argumentatifs des élèves
lors de débats socio-scientifiques sur l’eau potable. Étude comparée de 10 cafés
scientifiques menés au Mexique, aux USA et en France, en 2011–2012. Unpubli-
shed Ph.D. thesis in Education Sciences, directed by Ch. Plantin and K. Lund.
Université Lyon 2.
Simonneaux, L.; Legardez, A. 2011. Développement durable et autres questions
d’actualité. Les Questions Socialement Vives dans l’enseignement et la forma-
tion. Dijon: Educagri Editions.
Snow, Ch. P. 1961. The two Cultures and the Scientific Revolution – The Rede Lec-
tures, 1959. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Christian Plantin
200
Teixeira Martins, F. 2008. “Argumentação nas aulas de ciências para as séries
iniciais.” In Sousa do Nascimento, S.; Drumond Vieira, R.; Plantin, Ch. (eds.)
Análise do discurso, Argumentação e ensino de ciências. Curitiba: Editora
CRV, 57–77.
Toulmin, S. E. 1958. The Uses of Argument. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Toulmin, S. E.; Rieke R.; Janik A. 1984. An introduction to reasoning. New York:
McMillan.
Walton, D.; Reed, Ch.; Macagno, F. 2008. Argumentation schemes. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Maria Freddi
University of Pavia
Rhetoric of science: Fixed and changing modes
of scientific discourse
Abstract: The paper identifies ten types of arguments that are found to run through time
when scientist-writers address a mixed audience of literate people, apprentices and experts
alike. The rhetoric of science is argued to be a useful exploratory means to develop under-
standing of scientific cultures and specialized discourses, as well as promote apprenticeship
into the sciences.
1.  Introduction: On the rhetoric of science
To explore the relationship between rhetoric and knowledge, I take scientific
knowledge as the central issue and look at rhetoric of science as an opportunity
of enculturation into specialized communication, a way into the gradual and
systematic acquisition of the characteristics and norms of scientific and techni-
cal cultures by novices and experts alike. It is therefore the transfer of knowledge
and apprenticeship into science that is the focal point of the present contribution.
My concern is primarily pedagogical to the extent that I believe rhetoric of sci-
ence can be used as an empowering educational tool to promote advanced literacy
and improve communication skills through a deeper understanding of scientific
reasoning and ‘epistemic cultures’ (Knorr-Cetina 1999). A rhetorical approach
to science can help to train new experts to perfect their literacy skills, while at
the same time progressing with analytical knowledge of specialized discourse in
the various genres of communication (see, for example, Bazerman 1988; Bazer-
man and Prior 2004; Berkenkotter and Huckin 1993). It can help us become bet-
ter practitioners of science while becoming better practitioners of rhetoric. This
seems all the more necessary in the present day knowledge society characterized
by global access to information and where knowledge may be co-constructed
to improve the human condition (see Greco 2007; Vallima and Hoffman 2008).
Consequently, the approach that is proposed in the central section of this paper
is aimed at reconstructing arguments in texts in the belief that analysis and exposi-
tion of scientific argumentation need to be firmly grounded in extensive illustration
from original texts in order to have a pedagogical value. This is not so different from
allowing that knowledge is rhetorical and conceiving of rhetoric “as a necessary and
Maria Freddi
202
integral part of the engaged practice of science itself” (Gottschalk Druske 2014: 2).
It is in line with other proposals from within argumentation studies aiming to find
a place for rhetoric in the construction, discovery and learning of science (notably
Buty, Plantin 2009 on rhetoric in science education) and with the rhetoric of en-
quiry turn in the American tradition as summarized in Lyne and Miller (2009) and
represented, among others, by the many contributions in Gross and Keith (1997).
It is thus useful to take some complementary definitions of rhetoric of science,
which together justify the place of rhetoric in science studies. Finocchiaro (2005:
329) defines rhetoric of science as “…the critical understanding of actual reason-
ing”; Fahnestock (1999: 43) as “…attention to arguments from past and current
scientific texts and controversies” and Gaonkar (1997: 25) as “a way of reading
the endless discursive debris that surrounds us.” Finally, and from a more radical
perspective, Gottschalk Druske (2014) writes that:
rhetoric offers a useful perspective on the scientific endeavor; rhetoric complicates and
contextualizes the practice of science and its translation into policy; rhetoric adds neces-
sary – even ethical – depth, complication, and nuance to the communication of scientific
results and to perspectives on public engagement with science. (Gottschalk Druske 2014: 4)
All definitions owe to the legacy both of Perelman and Olbrechts-Tyteca’s (1958)
Traité de l’argumentation and Toulmin’s (1958) Uses of Argument, particularly in
regard to the emphasis on situated analyses of reasoning practices and the need
for context-sensitive theories of knowledge.
2.  Types of argument in scientific discourse
In this section I run through a number of arguments, which appear to be typical
of scientific discourse irrespective of historic time, field of enquiry and scientist-
writer. These are forms of argument that resist change and keep coming back as
constants of scientific reasoning. I should point out that I use the term ‘argument’
in its loosest sense of ‘argumentation, lines of reasoning, rhetorical devices,’ and
that I am fundamentally interested in the phrasing that such arguments display,
their linguistic shape, linguistic and discursive formations of science being the
main focus of the present contribution.
The list of arguments contains ten types: Thought experiments; Real experi-
ments; Argument by illustration and example; Reasoning by analogy; Appeal to
emotions (pathe); Digression as argument; Historicization and narrativization;
Formal logic; Series reasoning; Grammatical metaphor.
Table 1 below offers an overview of the scientists and texts that I have selected
to identify recurrent modes of argumentation, in chronological order. However,
Rhetoric of science: Fixed and changing modes of scientific discourse 203
the diverse reasoning lines are exemplified allowing some freedom to jump from
one case to the next disregarding vicinity in time or disciplinary affinity. For each
scientist and text short title, the domain and topic are specified and an attempt is
made at defining the genre also on the basis of the audience addressed. The date
reported is the date of publication, so that in the case of lectures it corresponds to
the year when the transcribed and edited versions were first published as books.
Table 1.  List of scientific texts exemplified
SCIENTIST DOMAIN TEXT DATE TOPIC AUDIENCE GENRE
Galileo
Galilei
Mechanics Discourses
on Two
New
Sciences
1638 Mechanics
of materials
and motion
of bodies
Wide Treatise
Charles
Darwin
Biology /
Natural Sciences
Origin of
Species
1859 Natural
selection
Wide Treatise
Michael
Faraday
Chemistry Chemical
History of
a Candle
1861 Laws of
combustion
Juvenile Lectures
Charles
Darwin
Biology /
Anthropology
Descent of
Man
1871 Origin of
man
Wide Treatise
Richard
Feynman
Mechanics /
Electromagnetism
Lectures
on Physics
(Six Easy
Pieces)
1963 Laws of
classical
physics
University
undergraduates
Lectures
John D.
Barrow
Mathematics /
Astrophysics
Infinities 2002 Infinity Wide Play
Mark
Miodownik
Mechanics Size
Matters
2010 Mechanics
of materials
Juvenile Lectures
2.1  Thought experiments
The first two types of argument to be considered are thought experiments and
the argumentum ad absurdum.
Thought experiments are understood as hypothetical situations imagined by
the scientist for the purpose of thinking through the consequences of the experi-
ment, whether it is possible to actually perform it or not (see Brown 2011; Frappier
et al. 2013). Linguistically, they are usually introduced by verbs such as suppose or
imagine and if-clauses with the irrealis mood. Often, though not necessarily, the
thought experiment appears together with the argument ad absurdum, signaled
by otherwise (in English) introducing an incongruous conclusion.
Maria Freddi
204
Perhaps the most illuminating example of a thought experiment containing the
argumentum ad absurdum is to be found in Day I of the Two New Sciences. In what
is considered the founding book of modern experimental science, Galileo proves
wrong Aristotle’s notion that bodies of different weights fall to the ground at differ-
ent speeds, with heavier bodies being faster and lighter bodies being slower. This
is an often cited thought experiment in the literature (cf. Kuhn 1977; Finocchiaro
2005; Brown 2011). However, because of its absolute clarity it is worth analyzing
here. Together with the Italian original, the English translation by Henry Crew
and Alfonso De Salvio is provided.
Galileo has Salviati imagine that we combine bodies of different weight to-
gether and drop them from a height. Following Aristotle’s premise, the experiment
allows for two perfectly logical yet mutually opposed conclusions: either the two
bodies combined are faster because the combination of the two is heavier than
the heavier weight, or they fall at an intermediate velocity because the heavier
body accelerates the slow one, but the light body slows down the heavier one.
Based on the same premises, therefore, two contradictory conclusions follow.
Hence, Aristotle must be wrong, otherwise one ends up accepting two logical, yet
mutually exclusive, conclusions.
In the following long extract, the lexemes supporting the thought experiment
quando-se ‘If,’ suppor-supposizione ‘assumption, supposition,’ fusse ‘would be,’ con-
cludete pertanto che ‘therefore conclude that,’ per ciò ‘therefore,’ etc. (in italics in the
text) mark an intricate argumentative development dialogically shaped between
Salviati and Sagredo and tightly paced, leading to the conclusion that all bodies
fall with the same speed; see extract (1):
(1)	 Two New Sciences
It.
	SALV. Quando dunque noi avessimo due mobili, le naturali velocità de i quali fussero
ineguali, è manifesto che se noi congiugnessimo il più tardo col più veloce, questo
dal più tardo sarebbe in parte ritardato, ed il tardo in parte velocitato dall’altro più
veloce. Non concorrete voi meco in quest’opinione?
	SIMP. Parmi che così debba indubitabilmente seguire.
	SALV. Ma se questo è, ed è insieme vero che una pietra grande si muova, per esempio,
con otto gradi di velocità, ed una minore con quattro, adunque, congiugnendole
amendue insieme, il composto di loro si moverà con velocità minore di otto gradi:
ma le due pietre, congiunte insieme, fanno una pietra maggiore che quella prima,
che si moveva con otto gradi di velocità: adunque questa maggiore si muove men
velocemente che la minore; che è contro alla vostra supposizione. Vedete dunque
come dal suppor che ‘l mobile più grave si muova più velocemente del men grave, io
vi concludo, il più grave muoversi men velocemente.
Rhetoric of science: Fixed and changing modes of scientific discourse 205
	SIMP. Io mi trovo avviluppato, perché mi par pure che la pietra minore aggiunta
alla maggiore le aggiunga peso, e aggiugnendole peso, non so come non debba
aggiugnerle velocità, o almeno non diminuirgliela.
	SALV. Qui commettete un altro errore, Sig. Simplicio, perché non è vero che quella
minor pietra accresca peso alla maggiore.
	SIMP. Oh, questo passa bene ogni mio concetto.
	SALV. Non lo passerà altrimente, fatto ch’io v’abbia accorto dell’equivoco nel quale
voi andate fluttuando: [..] Concludete pertanto che nella libera e naturale caduta la
minor pietra non gravita sopra la maggiore, ed in consequenza non le accresce peso,
come fa nella quiete.
	SIMP. Ma chi posasse la maggior sopra la minore?
	SALV. Le accrescerebbe peso, quando il suo moto fusse più veloce: ma già si è concluso
che quando la minore fusse più tarda, ritarderebbe in parte la velocità della maggiore,
tal che il loro composto si moverebbe men veloce, essendo maggiore dell’altra; che è
contro al vostro assunto. Concludiamo per ciò, che i mobili grandi e i piccoli ancora,
essendo della medesima gravità in spezie, si muovono con pari velocità. (Giornata I)
Eng. tr.
	SALV. If then we take two bodies whose natural speeds are different, it is clear that
on uniting the two, the more rapid one will be partly retarded by the slower, and the
slower will be somewhat hastened by the swifter. Do you not agree with me in this
opinion?
	SIMP. You are unquestionably right.
	SALV. But if this is true, and if a large stone moves with a speed of, say, eight while a
smaller moves with a speed of four, then when they are united, the system will move
with a speed less than eight; but the two stones when tied together make a stone
larger than that which before moved with a speed of eight. Hence the heavier body
moves with less speed than the lighter; an effect which is contrary to your supposition.
Thus you see how, from your assumption that the heavier body moves more rapidly
than the lighter one, I infer that the heavier body moves more slowly.
	SIMP. I am all at sea because it appears to me that the smaller stone when added to
the larger increases its weight and by adding weight I do not see how it can fail to
increase its speed or, at least, not to diminish it.
	SALV. Here again you are in error, Simplicio, because it is not true that the smaller
stone adds weight to the larger.
	SIMP. This is, indeed, quite beyond my comprehension.
	SALV. It will not be beyond you when I have once shown you the mistake under which
you are laboring. [..] You must therefore conclude that, during free and natural fall,
the small stone does not press upon the larger and consequently does not increase
its weight as it does when at rest.
	SIMP. But what if we should place the larger stone upon the smaller?
Maria Freddi
206
	
SALV. Its weight would be increased if the larger stone moved more rapidly; but we
have already concluded that when the small stone moves more slowly, it retards to
some extent the speed of the larger, so that the combination of the two, which is a
heavier body than the larger of the two stones, would move less rapidly, a conclusion
which is contrary to your hypothesis. We infer therefore that large and small bodies
move with the same speed provided they are of the same specific gravity. (Day I)
According to Kuhn (1977) thought experiments like this one, in bringing about
a deeper understanding of the conceptual apparatus of the scientist by eliminat-
ing ambiguities and contradictory positions, also lead to a new understanding of
natural phenomena.
More than 300 years later, Richard Feynman, Professor of Theoretical Phys-
ics at the California Institute of Technology and 1965 Nobel Prize winner, uses
thought experiments at various points in his argumentation on mechanics and
electromagnetism. An example can be found in his Lectures on Physics, an intro-
ductory physics course to freshmen and sophomores that he was asked to teach at
Caltech in the early 1960s, later transcribed and edited for publication to become
The Feynman Lectures on Physics. A part of it was subsequently published as Six
Easy Pieces. The Fundamentals of Physics Explained.
In the following thought experiment, Feynman illustrates the complex prin-
ciple of the conservation of energy, whereby “there is a certain quantity, which
we call energy, that does not change in the manifold changes which nature un-
dergoes,” “a most abstract idea, because it is a mathematical principle” (Feynman
1995: 69). He limits the illustration to one form of energy, namely gravitational
potential energy (whose formula is weight times height).
It is in this context that a thought experiment is introduced, linguistically
marked by the verb imagine, activating the imaginary scenario of the reversible
weight-lifting machine in which no energy is lost and perpetual motion is at-
tained. The whole thought experiment is built on this idealization, demonstrating
that in an ideal machine energy is conserved. The argument construes a contrast
with real-life non-reversible machines, showing that these cannot perform better
than the reversible machine because they would create perpetual motion, which
is an impossibility. I have added the italics to highlight the forms of the verbs
imagine, suppose, deduce supporting the argument and the irrealis would marking
hypothetical-deductive reasoning.
(2)	 Six Easy Pieces
	
We imagine that there are two classes of machines, those that are not reversible,
which includes all real machines, and those that are reversible, which of course are
actually not attainable no matter how careful we may be in our design of bearings,
levers, etc. We suppose, however, that there is such a thing, a reversible machine,
Rhetoric of science: Fixed and changing modes of scientific discourse 207
which lowers one unit of weight (a pound or any other unit) by one unit of distance,
and at the same time lifts a three-unit weight. Call this reversible machine, Machine
A. Suppose this particular reversible machine lifts the three-unit weight a distance
X. Then suppose we have another machine, Machine B, which is not necessarily re-
versible, which also lowers a unit weight a unit distance, but which lifts three units
a distance Y. We can now prove that Y is not higher than X; that is, it is impossible to
build a machine that will lift a weight any higher than it will be lifted by a reversible
machine. Let us see why. Let us suppose that Y were higher than X. We take a one-
unit weight and lower it one unit height with Machine B, and that lifts the three-unit
weight up a distance Y. Then we could lower the weight from Y to X, obtaining free
power, and use the reversible Machine A, running backwards, to lower the three-
unit weight a distance X and lift the one-unit weight by one unit height. This will
put the one-unit weight back where it was before, and leave both machines ready
to be used again! We would therefore have perpetual motion if Y were higher than
X, which we assumed was impossible. With those assumptions, we thus deduce that
Y is not higher than X, so that of all machines that can be designed, the reversible
machine is the best. (Six Easy Pieces, pp. 73–74)
Unlike the first example, the function of the thought experiment in (2) is illustra-
tive rather than probative. It is not used to refute a theory, but to clarify what is
meant by one particular law, i.e., conservation of energy.
Both extracts lead us onto another fundamental type of argument in the history
of modern scientific reasoning, that of abstraction and simplification accompany-
ing real experiments. It should be noticed, for instance, that in (1) air resistance is
an auxiliary phenomenon that ought to be abstracted from when experimenting,
so as to reach a generalization.
2.2  Real experiments
Real experiments are reported by scientists as a means of proof and a most effec-
tive way to produce new knowledge, and sometimes are even performed in front
of their audiences, to stress the importance of seeing what happens, of observing
and possibly replicating the experiments. Indeed experiments that have been car-
ried out populate the Two New Sciences, as can be seen in the following selection of
concordances of the words esperienza/-e (Fig. 1). The concordances point to vari-
ous places in the dialogue where Salviati refers to experiments he has conducted,
as for example when he uses an inclined plane to observe gravitational accelera-
tion and reproduce a situation practically rid of any resistance of the medium.
Maria Freddi
208
Figure 1.  Concordances of esperienza/esperienze from the Two New Sciences
mento dell'aria grave, facendomelo veder con l'esperienza,
n tal ragione ha osservato l'arte, e confermato l'esperienza, che un'asta vota o una canna di legno o di metal
se nel venire alla prova ei mi dicesse: «Piglia
. SAGR. Il discorso mi par concludentissimo, e l'esperienza tanto accomodata per verificare il postulato, che
ella luce non poter esser se non velocissima: e l'esperienza che mi sovvenne, fu tale. Voglio che due piglino
vano nell'istesso tempo; voi trovate, nel farne l'esperienza, che la maggiore anticipa due dita la minore, cio
grave; or quel vedersi accenna l'averne fatta l'esperienza.
consequenza la propensione di andare in su: ma l'esperienza mostra l'opposito. Quanto all'altra domanda, che
momento acquistato per la scesa CB, come mostra l'esperienza; adunque tutti i momenti che si acquistano per le
rienza assicurarci qual ella sia? SIMP. Mostra l'esperienza quotidiana, l'espansion del lume esser instantane
l'istesso mobile. Quanto al primo, il mostrarci l'esperienza che due palle di grandezza eguali, ma di peso l'u
quarta, ciò di novanta gradi, mostra parimente l'esperienza, passarsi tutti in tempi eguali, ma però più brev
etto, ci dimostra l'Autore quello che forse per l'esperienza non è stato osservato: e questo è, che de gli alt
mamente esser la metà dell'altro: e facendo poi l'esperienze di altre parti, esaminando ora il tempo di tutta
itrova, assai concludente argomento ce ne porge l'esperienza del pallone gonfiato, posta da Aristotele; perch
Ma con esso noi, lontani da simili pretensioni, l'esperienze e le ragioni sin qui addotte bastano a quietarci:
ell'aria resterei nel medesimo dubbio di prima. L'esperienza, dunque, di Aristotele buona, e la proposizion
allora altrettanto più veloce il sughero? e pur l'esperienza mostra ciò avvenire. Però notate: slargato il pen
8, 4, ed anco di 2 e di 1: ma a questo repugna l'esperienza; imperò che se due compagni si metteranno a numer
nella quale ben poi sempre si mantenga. SAGR. L'esperienze veramente mi par che siano molto a proposito; n
mati potranno esser commodamente veduti. SAGR. L'esperienza mi pare d'invenzione non men sicura che ingegnosa
efficaci, le sentiremo molto volentieri. SALV. L'esperienza fatta con due mobili quanto pi si possa differen
mossi; ed il rimuoverla fu effetto della medesima esperienza che di presente a voi la suscita. Voi dite, parer
notabile velocità; ed io dico che questa medesima esperienza ci chiarisce, i primi impeti del cadente, bench
. SAGR. Eh, Sig. Simplicio, da cotesta notissima esperienza non si raccoglie altro se non che il suono si con
a natura ed al vero, con ragioni o osservazioni o esperienze tritissime e familiari ad ogn'uno, ha (come da di
rci: tuttavia, quando abbiate altre più palpabili esperienze e ragioni più efficaci, le sentiremo molto volent
in conclusione con qualunque altra divisione, per esperienze ben cento volte replicate sempre s'incontrava, gl
pposizioni incostanti possano poi nelle praticate esperienze verificarsi. SALV. Tutte le promosse difficoltà
e stato opportuno in questo luogo arrecar qualche esperienza di quelle che si è detto esservene molte, che in
o dire, in confermazione dell'esattezza di questa esperienza ed insieme per chiara prova della nulla resistenz
e il chiodo e se gli avvolgerebbe intorno. Questa esperienza non lascia luogo di dubitare della verità del sup
e altrui attestazioni, ed anco da molte replicate esperienze. SALV. V. S. molto veridicamente discorre: e la
entamente, ferma certezza ce ne porge la seguente esperienza. Sospendansi da due fili egualmente lunghi, e di
Experiment and abstraction are even more carefully dealt with in modern science
than in Galileo. A significant example is offered by another great scientific figure
and a classic work of popular science, namely The Chemical History of a Candle.
The Chemical History is a block of six talks delivered by Michael Faraday in
1860 at the Royal Institution of Great Britain in London as part of a series of
Christmas lectures for a juvenile audience he started in 1825. Faraday was in-
deed an engaging communicator of science and helped establish the tradition
of scientific popularization that forms part of science vocation in Britain. Of the
19 series of lectures Faraday gave, perhaps the most famous one was on the candle,
later published as a book, indeed one of the most successful science books ever
published (James 2007, 2011).
Faraday makes many experiments before his audience, as indicated by the many
instances of Here you see, You see these, You see there, You observe, You see I have
shown, You will see, You will notice, You may see and Which you can look at … and
carefully examine… and is well aware of experimental conditions in the laboratory to
Rhetoric of science: Fixed and changing modes of scientific discourse 209
reduce error, as exemplified by the extracts in (3); see the italicized words regularity,
simplify, difficulties in the way, imitate pointing to the experimental situation and
the various actions performed by the scientist in the lab, e.g., by applying, by placing,
with the aim of proving the laws of combustion:
(3)	 Chemical History of a Candle
	
We have here a good deal of wind, which will help us in some of our illustrations,
but tease us in others; for the sake, therefore, of a little regularity, and to simplify the
matter, I shall make a quite flame, for who can study a subject when there are difficul-
ties in the way not belonging to it? (Lecture I, p. 6)
	
Now I am going to imitate the sunlight by applying the voltaic battery to the electric
lamp. You now see our sun, and its great luminosity; and by placing a candle between
it and the screen, we get the shadow of the flame. You observe the shadow of the
candle and of the wick; (Lecture I, p. 13)
	I suppose some here will have made for themselves the experiment I am going to show
you. Am I right in supposing that anybody here has played at snapdragon? I do not
know a more beautiful illustration of the philosophy of flame, as to a certain part of its
history, than the game of snapdragon. First, here is the dish; and let me say, that when
you play snapdragon properly you ought to have the dish well warmed; you ought also
to have warm plums, and warm brandy, which, however, I have not got. When you
have put the spirit into the dish, you have the cup and the fuel; and are not the raisins
acting like the wicks? I now throw the plums into the dish, and light the spirit, and
you see those beautiful tongues of flame that I refer to. (Lecture I, p. 15)
In the last example, Faraday refers the familiar habit of firing plums and raisins
with brandy for Christmas and enacts it to explain combustion to his young audi-
tory. This is just one of a large set of experiments that confer vividness and clarity
to the chemical explanations of his lectures.
Perhaps one of the most famous experiments ever conducted in front of a wide
audience was Feynman’s showing on television a piece of gasket material becoming
rigid when dropped in a cup of ice water to explain why the space shuttle Chal-
lenger had tragically exploded: the gasket material had lost its ability to seal, just
as the O-rings on the Challenger’s rocket booster joints; see the extract from the
televised hearing of the Presidential Commission on the Space Shuttle Challenger
Accident, February 1986:
(4)	 On the Space Shuttle Challenger Accident
	
I took this stuff that I got out of your seal and I put it in ice water, and I discovered
that when you put some pressure on it for a while and then undo it, it doesn’t stretch
back, it stays the same dimension. In other words, for a few seconds at least, and
more seconds than that, there is no resilience in this particular material when it’s at
a temperature of 32 degrees. I believe that has some significance for our problem.
Maria Freddi
210
The italics underlines the verbs and subject pronouns expressing the scientist’s
experimental procedures aimed at showing what had happened and how a fun-
damental law of physics had been disregarded in the design of the shuttle.
2.3  Argument by illustration and example
Another recurrent argumentative device in scientific discourse is argument by
illustration and example. The Royal Institution Christmas Lectures offer again a
case in point. With the only break during World War II, the Christmas Lectures
have been running yearly and are now a popular British event broadcast by the
BBC every year, dedicated to connecting the lay-public, especially young people,
with the world of science. The aim is to establish continuity with the long-standing
tradition inaugurated by Faraday in the 19th
century and possibly also to promote
a recruitment policy in the UK that tries to increase the number of young men
and women pursuing a career in the sciences.
In 2010 the lecture was delivered by materials scientist and University College
London professor Mark Miodownik, and it concerned the mechanics of materi-
als, informally referred to as ‘stuff’ by the scientist (notice incidentally the use
of stuff by Feynman in the previous example), and one of the two new sciences
expounded by Galileo in his Discourses.
Miodownik’s lecture is particularly representative of this type of scientific rea-
soning that makes use of a vast array of examples to explain a topic of the me-
chanics of materials, specifically static and dynamic pressures, i.e., the physical
concept of the area to volume (i.e., weight) ratio in bodies. The idea, which was
first explained by Galileo, is that if a body is increased in size, while maintaining
the proportion of all its parts, it does not get stronger per weight, contrary to
what common-sense thinking would make one think (the bigger, the stronger).
The reason for that is explained again in the Two New Sciences, where Galileo
highlights the importance of area to weight ratio. Larger bodies are less strong
than smaller ones because the area gets smaller compared to the volume it sup-
ports. Galileo shows that pressure is proportional to height, thus, when keeping
the same proportions, i.e., without changing the design, a higher body is subject
to a heavier pressure. If we double the size of a body, and keep the same design,
the pressure it exerts is twice as much (the weight grows by 8 times and the area
by 4 times). Otherwise, using Miodownik’s wording, “when you size things up
the area to volume ratio changes” (Size Matters, 43’ 29’’).
In watching Miodownik’s lecture, what is apparent is a process of recontex-
tualization of the same illustrations offered by Galileo alias Salviati in the Dis-
courses. The vast number of cases which were described by Galileo, sometimes
Rhetoric of science: Fixed and changing modes of scientific discourse 211
accompanied by drawings, including the falling horse that breaks its bones un-
like a falling dog or cat that do not, the grasshopper falling from a tower and an
ant falling from the moon, Ariosto’s giants, a dog holding another dog, a horse
that cannot hold another horse, the bones of the whale, etc., are all reused and
recontexualized with the help of the televisual media affordances to help explain
a counterintuitive notion to an audience of non-experts.
The examples that Galileo chose for Simplicio and the kind of common-sense
thinking the latter is a spokesman for also work very well with this 21st
-century
audience. Thus, Miodownik’s ‘crash test hamster Amish’ and ‘crash test dog Sweep’
replace horses, cats and dogs, fuelling empathy if not compassion on the children’s
audience. Similarly, Gordon the gecko and the reference to Spiderman climbing
up walls are used to exemplify friction, the dancers from the TV programme
Strictly Come Dancing and the strongest man we know (“what are your strength
credentials?,” asks the scientist and “could you just give us a demonstration of
exactly how strong you are?”) who can lift up to slightly more than 2 times his
weight, whereas a lighter man can lift up to more than 3 times his weight, replace
Ariosto’s giants. Visuals work as effective and entertaining explanations (Fig. 2).
Figure 2.  A screenshot from the Ri Christmas Lecture 2010
Argument by illustration and example leads me on to another two types of reason-
ing, the first having to do with the argumentative difference between illustrations
and analogies, i.e., reasoning by analogy. The second deals with a dimension
already identified by Aristotle as the orator’s appeal to emotions (pathe), namely
Maria Freddi
212
the reliance on the part of the orator on the audience’s non-rational frame of
mind, their preconceptions, values and assumptions in order to obtain persuasion.
2.4  Reasoning by analogy
Although devoting little space to the sciences, Perelman and Olbrechts-Tyteca’s
model of analogical reasoning might come in handy to analyze the language used
by scientists to build analogies.
The Traité de l’argumentation considers analogy as an essential factor of inven-
tion as well as a means of proof to the extent that the audience might be led to
prefer one hypothesis over another (see in particular Perelman and Olbrechts-
Tyteca 1969: 371 ff.). In the authors’ view, the argumentative function of analogies
is triggered by the structural similarity between two terms which they call the
‘theme,’ or the focal point of the line of reasoning, and the ‘phoros,’ namely the
starting point of the argument, with which the audience usually has more familiar-
ity than the theme. In virtue of the resemblance between phoros and theme and
of the comparison established through the analogy, the theme becomes clearer.
Accordingly, the theme and the phoros must come from different knowledge fields
and it is because of a sense of separate spheres or incommensurate arenas that
reasoning by analogy becomes particularly useful. In science analogy can serve
as a link in the chain of inductive reasoning, and certainly has an elucidatory
function in contexts of knowledge transfer.
It is again Feynman’s Lectures on Physics that well exemplify analogical rea-
soning, and the already mentioned chapter on “Conservation of Energy,” where
perhaps the most brilliant analogy of the whole collection is to be found. To ex-
plain the meaning of this abstract concept the physicist uses an extended analogy
that is reported below in the extract in (5). The same verbs that have been said to
introduce thought experiments, imagine and suppose, here introduce the phoros,
the playful and familiar situation of the Lego blocks, while the transition to the
theme is indicated by the word scheme and its quantitative features, ultimately
condensed in the two formulas in (4.1) and (4.2) and in the conclusion that we
do not know what energy is and yet we can calculate it.
(5)	 Six Easy Pieces
	Imagine a child, perhaps “Dennis the Menace,” who has blocks which are absolutely
indestructible, and cannot be divided into pieces. Each is the same as the other. Let us
suppose that he has 28 blocks. His mother puts him with his 28 blocks into a room at
the beginning of the day. At the end of the day, being curious, she counts the blocks
very carefully, and discovers a phenomenal law – no matter what he does with the
blocks, there are always 28 remaining! This continues for a number of days, until one
day there are only 27 blocks [..] Another day, careful count indicates that there are
Rhetoric of science: Fixed and changing modes of scientific discourse 213
30 blocks! This causes considerable consternation, until it is realized that Bruce came
to visit, bringing his blocks with him, and he left a few at Dennis’ house. [..] Being
extremely curious, and somewhat ingenious, she invents a scheme! She knows that a
block weighs three ounces, so she weighs the box at a time when she sees 28 blocks,
and it weighs 16 ounces. The next time she wishes to check, she weighs the box again,
subtracts sixteen ounces and divides by three. She discovers the following:
	 (number of blocks seen) + [(weight of box) – 16 ounces] / 3 ounces = constant.	
(4.1)
	[..] this new formula would be:
	
(number of blocks seen) + [(weight of box) – 16 ounces] / 3 ounces +
(height of water) – 6 inches/ ¼ inch = constant.	 (4.2)
	[..] As a result, she finds a complex formula, a quantity which has to be computed,
which always stays the same in her situation. (Six Easy Pieces, pp. 70–71)
In the Chemical History, analogies are drawn from the outside world, they are often
extraneous events like carbon dioxide in London (Lecture VI, p. 93) which help
understand the subject and at the same time confer spontaneity to the lectures.
Analogical reasoning can be found also in a different knowledge field, biology,
and major work, namely Charles Darwin’s Origin of Species. The great naturalist
argues his case from analogy, whereby variations occurring under domestication
must apply to variations occurring in nature. An inference is constructed on the
analogy, ‘if under domestication, so in a state of nature’ (cf. also Fahnestock 1999).
2.5  Appeal to emotions
This appears to be combined with dramatization and entertainment value, which
is evident in the more modern cases analyzed, but significantly already in the Two
New Sciences.
First and foremost, Galileo’s choice to use fictive dialogue among the three
participants, Salviati, Sagredo, Simplicio, confers to his demonstrations a kind of
liveliness which is not so dissimilar from the engaging mood of the lectures for a
juvenile audience employed both by Faraday and Miodownik and from Feynman’s
entertaining analogies in Six Easy Pieces.
While making the reasoning process explicit by dramatizing the scientist’s
interior monologue, the dialogic form also reflects the need to adapt expert dis-
course for a lay audience; it accommodates a plurality of voices and opinions, so
it is inherently dialectic and open to engagement on the part of the readership,
similar to a ‘conversation between friends,’ as in the English translation below (see
among others Altieri Biagi 1983; Zanarini 1983; Raimondi 2002).
Maria Freddi
214
Moreover, Galileo uses irony with Simplicio who is often confused with doubts
(dubbi in the original Italian text). Doubts are crucial, as can be seen in the fol-
lowing extract, but sometimes irony prevails:
(6)	 Two New Sciences
It.
	
SAGR. Di grazia, godiamo del benefizio e privilegio che s’ha dal parlar con i vivi e
tra gli amici, e più di cose arbitrarie e non necessarie, differente dal trattar co’ i libri
morti, li quali ti eccitano mille dubbi e nissuno te ne risolvono. [..] ed in particolare
i dubbii toccati dal Sig. Simplicio non si trapassino in tutti i modi. (Giornata I)
Eng. tr.
	SAGR. Pray let us enjoy the advantages and privileges which come from conversation
between friends, especially upon subjects freely chosen and not forced upon us, a
matter vastly different from dealing with dead books which give rise to many doubts
but remove none. [..] and in particular the objections raised by Simplicio ought not
in any wise to be neglected. (Day I)
Faraday’s experiments discussed above have an important function in dragging
down the subject and appealing to the audience in a very direct manner (see
James 2011). He refers to everyday events the audience is already familiar with
(e.g. snapdragon) to create a lively and engaging atmosphere.
This is replicated by Miodownik, whose present-day lecture makes use of as
much spectacularization as the technological and visual affordances of TV allow
him to and are filled with humor. He makes jokes to entertain youngsters and
adults alike. See the example in (7) below, where the scientist introduces some of
the properties of materials:
(7)	 Size Matters
	
Now, liquids and mobile phones, they don’t really mix, do they? Anyone who’s ever
sat down on the loo with their phone in the back pocket and heard a splash knows
this! (Size Matters, 01’ 49’’)
An interesting example of the appeal to emotions in dealing with complex scien-
tific contents is offered by John D. Barrow’s theatrical play about the mathematical
notion of infinity. Infinities opened at Bovisa Warehouses in Milan in 2002, after
being commissioned by the Piccolo Teatro and his artistic director Luca Ronconi
to Cambridge professor of mathematics and physics John D. Barrow, who is ac-
tively engaged in the public understanding of science and mathematics.
Staged in Italian, the play consists of five scenarios each on the paradoxes of
the mathematical concept of infinity: 1. Benvenuti all’Albergo Infinito (‘Welcome
to the Hotel Infinity’), 2. Vivere in eterno (‘Living forever’), 3. Il paradosso della re-
plicazione infinita (‘The infinite replication paradox’), 4. L’infinito non è un grande
Rhetoric of science: Fixed and changing modes of scientific discourse 215
numero (‘Infinity is not a big number’), and 5. Viaggi nel tempo (‘Time travel-
ling’). Of these, several touch on the deep mathematics of infinity, particularly
the first that reproduces the hotel with countably infinite rooms of 20th
-century
mathematician Dave Hilbert, the third on infinite replication, and the fourth,
which dramatizes the arguments between Cantor and Kronecker about the na-
ture of infinity. The second envisages the possibility of living forever and reasons
through the consequences of a similar scenario employing the technique of the
argumentum ad absurdum already mentioned in paragraph 2.1 above; the fifth,
less mathematical, scenario about time travel ends with a direct appeal to theatre
critics, as seen in extract (8) below, which is indicative of the kind of abstraction
the whole play aims to represent.
Infinities offers an interesting example of science on stage because of the con-
tamination of the languages it experimented with, the language of science, on
one hand, and dramatic language, on the other. Instead of dealing with the tor-
ments and dilemmas of a scientific character, or with scientific discoveries in
the history of science, the play is meant to stage abstract scientific concepts and
people’s bewilderment in dealing with them, resulting in a new form of drama-
turgy (Donghi 2013: 8, and see Barrow 2012 for the scientist’s own recount of the
staging experience).
The feeling of displacement it creates in the audience and in the actors alike is
well captured by Kirsten Shepherd-Barr in her 2006 book Science on Stage. From
Dr Faustus to Copenhagen, where she tries to reconstruct the peculiar theatrical
experience of the audience, “Watching it we breathe the air of ideas and abstrac-
tions that are magically brought to life through the material possibilities of the
stage” (Shepherd-Barr 2006: 150). She stresses how the play does not include plot
and characterization as understood in traditional theatre terms, rather it “dem-
onstrates the very concepts it deals with,” thus constituting an innovative case in
the genre of science plays (ibid.); see Fig. 3 for a suggestive picture from the play.
(8)	 Infinities
	
Se siete dei critici teatrali che viaggiano nel tempo e siete in grado di andare nel
passato, potreste scrivere una recensione di questa commedia perché l’autore possa
leggerla prima che venga scritta e rappresentata. Così gli consentireste di modificare
le cose in modo da incontrare la vostra approvazione. Ma da dove sarebbe venuta la
commedia? (Infinities, scenario 5)

Eng. back translation
	
If you are some theatre critics who travel in time and can go back to the past, you
could write a review of this play so that the author can read it before it is even written
and staged. In this way you would allow him to change things in a way as to meet
your approval. But where would the play have come from?
Maria Freddi
216
Figure 3. 
A picture from scenario 1 of Infinities (picture by Marcello Norberth/Piccolo
Teatro di Milano – Teatro d’Europa)
I will come back to Infinities to discuss the fourth vignette as an example of an-
other type of argument widely used in the sciences, namely formal logic.
2.6  Digression as argument
Strictly connected with the previous technique seems to me to be the use of digres-
sions as constitutive of argumentation in both Galileo and Feynman.
The four days of discussion in the Two New Sciences are intercalated with
digressions, on friction, the vacuum and matter, each containing illustrations,
thought and real experiments, which are introduced by Salviati and Sagredo to
further clarify the main topic for the sake of Simplicio and the readership alike.
That digressions are constitutive of argumentation in the Two New Sciences
is apparent when searching the text for lemmas such as digressioni, digredire,
divertire pointing to digressions taking place throughout the development of the
book including in the Corollaries at the end of the four days. There are 10 in-
stances of digressione/-i, digredir/-e and 3 instances of divertire, diverter, divertendo
with the same meaning in the first two days only.
The extract in (9) sees Sagredo purport digression as a heuristic, claiming that
diversions from the main reasoning line may lead to novel ideas. This is not just
Rhetoric of science: Fixed and changing modes of scientific discourse 217
a way of advocating freedom of thought typical of the new science, as pointed out
by some commentators (e.g., Altieri Biagi 1983, Biagioli 1994), but also, and more
important for an analysis of modes of scientific discourse, a method to explore
and produce new knowledge:
(9)	 Two New Sciences
It.
	
SALV. In nuove specolazioni, e non molto al nostro intento necessarie, converrà
divertire, se dovremo delle promosse difficoltà portar le soluzioni.
	SAGR. Ma se le digressioni possono arrecarci la cognizione di nuove verità, che pre-
giudica a noi, non obbligati a un metodo serrato e conciso, ma che solo per proprio
gusto facciamo i nostri congressi, digredir ora per non perder quelle notizie che forse,
lasciata l’incontrata occasione, un’altra volta non ci si rappresenterebbe? Anzi chi sa
che bene spesso non si possano scoprir curiosità più belle delle primariamente cercate
conclusioni? (Giornata I)
Eng. tr.
	SALV. To solve the problems which you raise it will be necessary to make a digression
into subjects which have little bearing upon our present purpose.
	SAGR. But if, by digressions, we can reach new truth, what harm is there in making
one now, so that we may not lose this knowledge, remembering that such an oppor-
tunity, once omitted, may not return; remembering also that we are not tied down to
a fixed and brief method but that we meet solely for our own entertainment? Indeed,
who knows but that we may thus frequently discover something more interesting and
beautiful than the solution originally sought? (Day I)
Feynman also conceptualizes the use of digressions as functional to his argument
about mechanics and electromagnetism, and necessary in order to maintain the
interest and enthusiasm of the better and more motivated students, as he states
in the Preface to the Lectures on Physics. He takes digressions in a programmatic
manner, asserting that he will apply concepts in directions which go beyond
mainstream argumentation (Feynman 1995: xxiv), recalling Galileo’s pedagogy
of digressions.
2.7  Historicization and narrativization
A further strategy that is used not so much in Galileo, where the only other signifi-
cant actor is Aristotle, but rather in Faraday, Feynman, Barrow and Miodownik,
is what has been dubbed by Fuller 1998 among others (see also Hyland 2010) as
‘historicization and narrativization’ of science. This rhetorical strategy, which is
linguistically expressed as a series of past tense verbs associated with the human
agents of scientific discoveries, consists in narrating the story of science. It is
employed by the scientist-writer for the sake of explanation and helps to narrow
Maria Freddi
218
down the gap between writer and reader to the extent that the reader might gain
a better understanding of natural phenomena.
As can be seen in extract (10), Feynman often uses this form of narration of what
happened in the history of science. In explaining gravity he recounts the scientific
discoveries by the great scientists from the past with whom he is entertaining a
dialogue (Kepler, Copernicus, Galileo, Newton, Faraday, Maxwell, Einstein, etc.):
(10)	Six Easy Pieces
	
In the years before 1920, the picture of space as a three-dimensional space, and of
time as a separate thing, was changed by Einstein, first into a combination which we
call space-time, and then still further into a curved space-time to represent gravi-
tation. So the “stage” is changed into space-time, and gravitation is presumably a
modification of space-time. Then it was also found that the rules for the motions of
particles were incorrect. The mechanical rules of “inertia” and “forces” are wrong.
Newton’s laws are wrong in the world of atoms. Instead, it was discovered that things
on a small scale behave nothing like things on a large scale. (Six Easy Pieces, p. 33)
Faraday quotes Hooke and his discoveries, “I have a drawing here sketched many
years ago by Hooker, when he made his investigations” (Lecture I, pp. 12–13).
Similarly, Barrow reconceptualizes the notion of zero to infinity by referring to
Galileo and Cantor’s reasoning on infinite numbers, and finally Miodownik ex-
plicitly mentions Galileo in his lecture on mechanics, when he says, “Galileo
recognised this very early on and people have noticed this ever since” (Size Mat-
ters, 44’ 31’’). In this way, continuity with the history of science is established to
facilitate understanding on the part of the audience.
2.8  Formal logic
Barrow’s play allows me to tackle the use of formal logic in scientific discourse.
The fourth scenario is developed by exploiting to the full the argumentative (and
dramaturgical) potential of logical reasoning. Devoted to answering the ques-
tions “Can we count infinity?,” “Are there infinities greater than other infinities?”
it opens with the idea that infinity, most often denoted as ∞ (see Fig. 4), is an
unbounded quantity that is greater than every real number and usually under-
stood as “just a very big number,” see the extract in (11) below that introduces
common-sense thinking to which formal logic is then contrasted:
(11)	Infinities
	
Questa idea che l’infinito sia solo un numero molto grande è quella che probabil-
mente ha in mente la maggior parte delle persone che vanno a teatro. Siamo tentati
di pensare che per arrivare all’infinito basti contare senza mai fermarsi e che quindi
sia approssimativamente il numero più grande che riusciamo ad immaginare, più
qualche altra cosa. (Infinities, scenario n. 4)
Rhetoric of science: Fixed and changing modes of scientific discourse 219
[Eng. back tr. This idea that infinity is just a very big number is what most theatre goers
probably have in mind. It is tempting to think that infinity is just a count that keeps on
going, and so is approximately the biggest number we can think of, plus something more.]
However, the argument follows by presenting Galileo’s paradox of the list of in-
tegers and their squared values, as in (12) below, and by dramatizing the formal
abstraction of mathematical reasoning from Galileo to Cantor:
(12)	Infinities
numero [number] quadrato [square]
1 1
2 4
3 9
4 16
5 25
6 36
7 49
8 64
9 81
10 100 …e così via all’infinito…
[Eng. back tr. …and so on for ever…]
Following Galileo’s logic, there is indeed a one to one correspondence between
the two lists, thus they should be identical in size. However, the list on the left
seems greater than the list on the right, because each number on the right-hand
list is also contained in the left-hand list (see numbers in bold), so the left-hand
list must be greater.
The scenario continues in the late 19th
century with Cantor, who shows that not
all infinities are countable (for example, the square root of 2, an irrational number,
is not), therefore some infinities are greater than others. Non-countable infinities
are a different type of infinity and a greater infinity, see “La gerarchia ascendente
degli infiniti è senza fine. A partire da un insieme infinito, se ne può generare un
altro più grande: basta considerare l’insieme che contiene tutte le “parti” dell’in-
sieme di partenza. Questo viene chiamato il suo insieme potenza.” [Eng. back tr.
‘The ascending hierarchy of infinities is never-ending. From an infinite set we can
Maria Freddi
220
create an infinitely larger set: by considering the set that contains all its subsets.
This is called its power set’.].
Yet another example of formal logic is central to the scenario, concerning infin-
ity creating chaos and ending on another paradox of infinity, namely that the sum
of an infinite series can be either 0 or 1, depending on how we pair the members
of the sum, see (13):
(13)	Infinities
	
Consideriamo la serie infinita di +1 e -1 che si alternano e proviamo a calcolare la
somma S di questa serie senza fine:
	
S = 1-1+1-1+1-1+….
	Se associamo con parentesi a coppie i termini contenuti nella serie come appare qui
sotto, la somma S della serie è ovviamente zero, perché ogni parentesi contiene una
coppia di +1 e -1 la cui somma è zero:
	
S = (1-1) + (1-1) + (1-1) + (1-1) + …
	
S = 0 + 0 + 0 + 0 + …
	 quindi S = 0
	 Ma potremmo anche raggruppare i termini della serie in modo diverso, per esempio:
	 S = 1 + (-1+1) + (-1+1) + (-1+1) + …
	 In questo caso S = 1 perché la somma all’interno di ogni parentesi è zero, quindi
	 S = 1 + 0 + 0 + 0 + 0 + …
	 A questo punto abbiamo dimostrato che S = 0 e S = 1, e quindi 0 = 1.
	(Infinities, scenario 4)
	[Eng. back tr. Let us consider the infinite series of alternating +1 and -1 and calculate
the sum S of this never-ending series: S = 1-1+1-1+1-1+…. If we group the numbers
of the series in pairs as shown below in brackets, the sum S of the series is obviously
zero, because each bracket contains a +1 and -1 pair which sums to zero: S = (1-1) +
(1-1) + (1-1) + (1-1) + … S = 0 + 0 + 0 + 0 + … and so S = 0. But, we could also
group the terms in the series in a different way, for example: S = 1 + (-1+1) + (-1+1) +
(-1+1) + … In this case S = 1 because each of the bracketed terms again sums to zero,
so S = 1 + 0 + 0 + 0 + 0 + … We have now proved that S = 0 and S = 1, and so 0 = 1.]
Rhetoric of science: Fixed and changing modes of scientific discourse 221
Figure 4.  A poster of the play Infinities from the Piccolo Teatro’s archive
Maria Freddi
222
2.9  Series Reasoning
This particular type of reasoning seems to be as characteristic of Darwin’s argu-
ment in the Origin of Species and his biological and anthropological argument in
the Descent of Man as has been shown by Jeanne Fahnestock in her 1999 book on
Rhetorical Figures in Science.
Fahnestock has noticed that Darwin uses series reasoning to replace differ-
ences in kind between different categories with differences in degree within one
and the same category. This is functional to disproving the idea that there are as
many independent acts of creation as are the various species, and to proving his
evolutionary notion of species evolving from each other.
Talking about the scientist’s “fixation on gradation through intermediaries”
(Fahnestock 1999: 116), she has shown how series reasoning is present throughout
the Origin, taking a figurative shape as incrementum and gradatio, the two figures
of series formation which embody this type of argument. She defines incremen-
tum as “the principle of ordering by increase or decrease in some quantifier or
attribute,” establishing a progression through ascending and descending series,
while gradatio is “an easily recognised figure, constructed from a series of phrases
or clauses, each of which, except the first, repeats the end of the previous item,”
thus concerning intermediates sharing some properties with previous and suc-
cessive elements (Fahnestock 1999: 92–93). She also observes that the items being
ordered must belong to the same genus or category, at least in the perception of
the arguer. If not thus perceived by the audience, i.e., items in the incrementum
are not already within the same category, then the figure can be used to establish
membership, to argue for the very existence of the series.
This type of reasoning, which is crucial to the argument for a common origin, is
also widely present in the naturalist’s second treatise on human evolution, The De-
scent of Man. As can be seen in (14), Darwin employs the very term gradation(s) to
hypothesise the evolutionary chain along a continuum. Series reasoning through
gradatio is good for joining and blending what had been kept separate by the
creationist argument (see the italicised words steps, scale, gradation/graduating,
degrees, interval, etc.):
(14)	Descent of Man
	
In the next chapter I shall make some few remarks on the probable steps and means
by which the several mental and moral faculties of man have been gradually evolved.
That such evolution is at least possible, ought not to be denied, for we daily see these
faculties developing in every infant; and we may trace a perfect gradation from the
mind of an utter idiot, lower than that of an animal low in the scale, to the mind of a
Newton. (Descent [1871] 1981: 106)
Rhetoric of science: Fixed and changing modes of scientific discourse 223
	In a series of forms graduating insensibly from some ape-like creature to man as he now
exists, it would be impossible to fix on any definite point where the term ‘man’ ought to
be used. But this is a matter of very little importance. (Descent [1871] 1981: 235)
	(..) it is impossible to say at what point in the ascending scale animals become capable
of abstraction, &c.; but who can say at what age this occurs in our young children?
We see at least that such powers are developed in children by imperceptible degrees.
(Descent [1871] 1981: 105)
	
We must also admit that there is a much wider interval in mental power between
one of the lowest fishes, as a lamprey or lancelet, and one of the higher apes, than
between an ape and man; yet this interval is filled up by numberless gradations.”
(Descent [1871] 1981: 35)
2.10  Grammatical metaphor, or nominalization
The last feature I would like to briefly tackle is a particular rhetorical device that
has been said to take place in the history of science discourse (see Altieri Biagi
1993 specifically on Italian scientific discourse), and identified by the British lin-
guist M. A. K. Halliday as ‘grammatical metaphor’ (see Halliday 2004).
This is a metaphorical shift that occurs at the level of grammar, and consists
in transforming verbs describing processes and events as they occur in the outer
world and adjectives indicating qualities into nouns defining abstract entities. This
kind of shift in the language is said to correspond to the birth of technical terms
and the scientific jargon of modern experimental science (e.g., motion, speed,
both derived from adjectives, and fall used as noun, as seen in the extract in (1)
from the Two New Sciences), bringing about classification of phenomena into
types and subtypes (e.g., perpetual motion in example (2) from Six Easy Pieces),
generalization and theorization. The newly created entities which result from this
process of nominalization and gradual abstraction offer the starting point for
classification, measurement and some further argumentation to be developed.
The verbs lexicalizing processes and events now turned into categories of natural
phenomena become the topic for some further reasoning. In example (2) for
instance, Feynman’s argument rests on the distinction between two classes of ma-
chines, the reversible and non-reversible machines, a classification on which the
whole reasoning is built and the conclusion about perpetual motion (an example
of grammatical metaphor) is drawn.
That this metaphorical shift is pervasive in modern scientific discourse is evi-
dent not only in Galileo, where the transition from the verbal into a nominal rep-
resentation of nature is still taking place linguistically (see in example (1) mobile
‘body’ used as noun rather than adjective, meaning ‘that which can be moved,’ or
Maria Freddi
224
‘that which moves,’ co-existing with moto ‘motion’ and muoversi ‘move’), but also
in the many examples from Faraday (e.g., sun luminosity in (3) above).
The scientific vocabulary of abstract entities, their qualities and subtypes and
the reasoning based on these is obviously present in a mature science. However,
in emerging new sciences, when a new theory is formulated and arguments pro-
vided to support it, like in Darwin’s examples, the phrasing and the corresponding
theorization make use of grammatical metaphor in a substantial way.
Darwin’s natural selection and evolution (the latter of which, as is well-known,
does not occur in the first edition of the Origin) are an example of such meta-
phorical shift that helps define an evolutionary theory later rhetorically amplified
into evolutionism by Darwin’s reception. Natural selection, or “the preservation of
favourable variations and the rejection of injurious variations” occurs in nature
as a process of selecting, preserving and favouring but, through nominalisation,
it becomes a theory. In a similar way, all the following nouns from Darwin’s trea-
tise are grammatical metaphors: variation, modification, deviation, preservation,
adaptation, acclimatisation vs. extinction, destruction, extermination, degradation,
competition, etc.
Nominalization concludes this overview of the modes of scientific discourse
and brings me to the last section of the present contribution.
3. Conclusions
Some recurring communicative and argumentative practices of scientists have
emerged through the rhetorical analysis conducted on this sample of scientific
texts. Continuity more than change has been observed in the modes of scientific
discourse, at least as far as the cases considered allow to hypothesize. When con-
sidering continuity across disciplines, e.g., mechanics, biology and chemistry, and
the ways of producing agreement these adopt, there seems to be convergence on
shared modes of knowledge production and transfer.
Continuity is also observable across time and audiences as the types of scien-
tific arguments resist diachronic change and are the same across different publics.
Indeed, many of the types of argument that can be identified in Galileo’s treatise
appear in all other cases considered, somehow establishing an enduring tradition.
However, it should be stressed that all the texts analyzed were addressed to a
wide audience, and meant to accommodate mixed groups of addressees, whether
17th
- and 19th
-century intelligentsias (cf. Galileo, Darwin), present-day educated
theatre goers (Barrow), the general public and children (Faraday, Miodownik),
or 20th
‑century university students (as in Feynman’s lectures). In a way, although
perhaps to different extents, proselytism is at work in all the texts analyzed.
Rhetoric of science: Fixed and changing modes of scientific discourse 225
The instances considered share the same emphasis on experimenting as con-
stitutive of science and on showing and giving demonstrations as facilitating un-
derstanding of specialized contents on the part of the viewing audience, whether
student-novice, lay-public or peer scientists. The dialogicity typical of the spoken
medium is also found to be characteristic. This reinforces the idea that science is
interactive and that scientific argumentation requires interpersonal negotiations
and engagement as much as convincing ideas, so it is ‘rhetorical action’ (Cec-
carelli 2001; see also Selzer 1993). Imagination, visualization and embodiment
as much as appeal to emotions appear to be indispensable qualities of successful
apprenticeship into science.
Also, science builds on its past when in order to explain novel theories scientists
embark on a narrative of the history of science. Specialized knowledge becomes
easier to grasp when its history is recounted.
To conclude, with this approach I hope to have shown that rhetoric of science
is a fruitful investigative tool that helps to develop understanding of scientific cul-
tures when dealing with 17th
century as well as contemporary scientific discourse.
Acknowledgements
I would like to thank professor John Barrow for kindly giving me the program
for the first staging of Infinities together with the CD, the Piccolo Teatro Milan
for permission to reproduce a picture from the same staging and professor Mark
Miodownik for granting permission to reproduce a screenshot from his 2010 Ri
Christmas lecture.
References
Altieri Biagi, M. L. 1983. “Galileo e gli scienziati del seicento.” In M. L. Altieri Biagi
and B. Basile (eds.) Scienziati del Seicento. Milano – Napoli: Ricciardi, 9–68.
Altieri Biagi, M. L. 1993. “Dialogo sopra i massimi sistemi.” In A. Asor Rosa (ed.)
Letteratura italiana. Le opere. Vol. 2: Dal Cinquecento al Settecento. Torino:
Einaudi, 893–971.
Barrow, J. D. 2002. Infinities. Milano: Edizioni Piccolo Teatro di Milano.
Barrow, J. D. 2012. “Where things happen that don’t: staging the infinite.” Available
at http://thalesandfriends.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/barrow_paper.pdf
Last accessed 16.01.2016.
Bazerman, C. 1988. Shaping Written Knowledge. The Genre and Activity of the
Experimental Article in Science. Madison, Wisconsin: University of Wisconsin
Press.
Maria Freddi
226
Bazerman, C. and P. Prior (eds.) 2004. What Writing Does and How it Does it: An
Introduction to Analyzing Texts and Textual Practices. London – NY: Routledge.
Berkenkotter, C. and T. Huckin 1993. “Rethinking genre from a socio-cognitive
perspective.” Written Communication 10 (4), 475–509.
Biagioli, M. 1994. Galileo, Courtier: The Practice of Science in the Culture of Abso-
lutism. Chicago – London: University of Chicago Press.
Brown, J. R. 2011. The Laboratory of the Mind: Thought Experiments in the Natural
Sciences. London: Routledge.
Buty, C. and C. Plantin (eds.) 2009. Argumenter en classe de sciences. Du débat
à l’apprentissage et didactique des sciences. Lyon: INRP.
Ceccarelli, L. 2001. Shaping Science with Rhetoric: The cases of Dobzhansky,
Schrödinger, and Wilson. Chicago – London: University of Chicago Press.
Darwin, C. 1981 [1871]. The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex.
Princeton, N. J.: Princeton University Press.
Darwin, C. 1985 [1958]. The Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection.
London: Penguin.
Donghi, P. 2013. Gli infiniti di Ronconi. Trieste: Scienza Express.
Fahnestock, J. 1999. Rhetorical Figures in Science. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Faraday, M. 2011 [1861]. The Chemical History of a Candle. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Feynman, R. 1995 [1963]. Six Easy Pieces. The Fundamentals of Physics Explained.
London: Penguin.
Finocchiaro, M. 2005. Arguments about Arguments. Systematic, Critical and His-
torical Essays in Logical Theory. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Frappier, M.; Meynell, L. and J. R. Brown (eds.) 2013. Thought Experiments in
Philosophy, Science and the Arts. London: Routledge.
Fuller, G. 1998. “Cultivating science. Negotiating discourse in the popular texts of
Stephen Jay Gould.” In J. R. Martin and R. Veel (eds.) Reading Science. Critical
and Functional Perspectives on Discourses of Science. London: Routledge, 35–62.
Galilei, G. 1990 [1638]. Discorsi e dimostrazioni matematiche intorno a due nuove
science. Torino: Einaudi (Eng. transl. by H. Crew and A. De Salvio, Discour-
ses and Mathematical Demonstrations Concerning Two New Sciences. London:
Dover, 1954).
Gaonkar, D. 1997. “The idea of rhetoric in the rhetoric of science.” In A. Gross
and W. Keith (eds.) Rhetorical Hermeneutics. Invention and Interpretation in
the Age of Science. New York: SUNY Press. 25–85.
Gottschalk Druske, C. 2014. “With whom do we speak? Building transdisciplinary
collaborations in the rhetoric of science.” Poroi 10 (1), 1–7.
Rhetoric of science: Fixed and changing modes of scientific discourse 227
Greco, P. 2007. “Review of ‘Scienza e società della conoscenza’. A. Cerroni, Utet,
2007.” Journal of Science Communication. 6 (3), 1–2.
Gross, A. and W. Keith (eds.) 1999. Rhetorical Hermeneutics. Invention and Inter-
pretation in the Age of Science. New York: SUNY Press.
Halliday, M. A. K. 2004. The Language of Science. London: Continuum.
Hyland, K. 2010. “Constructing proximity: relating to readers in popular and
professional science.” Journal of English for Academic Purposes 9 (2), 116–127.
James, F. 2007. Christmas at the Royal Institution: An Anthology of Lectures.
Singapore: World Scientific Publishing.
James, F. 2011. “Introduction to Michael Faraday’s The Chemical History of a
Candle.” Sesquicentenary edition. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 3–42.
Knorr-Cetina, K. 1999. Epistemic Cultures: How the Sciences Make Knowledge.
Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
Kuhn, T. S. 1977 [1964]. “A function for thought experiments.” In T. S. Kuhn The
Essential Tension. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 240–265.
Lyne, J. and C. Miller 2009. “Rhetoric across the disciplines: rhetoric, disciplinar-
ity, and fields of knowledge.” In A. A. Lunsford, K. H. Wilson, R. A. Eberly (eds.)
The Sage Handbook of Rhetorical Studies. London: Sage, 167–173.
Miodownik, M. 2010. Size Matters. The Royal Institution Christmas Lectures 2010.
London: The Royal Institution of Great Britain.
Perelman, C. and L. Olbrechts-Tyteca 1969. The New Rhetoric: A Treatise on Ar-
gumentation. Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press (Eng. tr. of the
1958 Traité de l’argumentation: La nouvelle rhétorique. Paris: Presses Univer-
sitaires de France).
Raimondi, E. 2002. La retorica d’oggi. Bologna: Il Mulino.
Selzer, J. (ed.) 1993. Understanding Scientific Prose. Madison, WisconsIn Univer-
sity of Wisconsin Press.
Shepherd-Barr, K. 2006. Science on Stage: From Doctor Faustus to Copenhagen.
Princeton, N. J. – Oxford: Princeton University Press.
Toulmin, S. 1958. The Uses of Argument. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Vallima, J. and D. Hoffman 2008. “Knowledge society discourse and higher educa-
tion.” Higher Education 56 (3), 265–285.
Zanarini, G. 1983. Dialogo con Galileo. Bologna: Clueb.
V.  Rhetoric at the crossroads of
science and politics
Paul Danler
University of Innsbruck
Knowledge and Power through Discourse and
how to gain insights into rhetorical strategies
through linguistic analysis – despite Foucault
Abstract: Distinguishing the notions of knowledge, power and discourse in Foucault’s
‘discourse analysis’ from those in ‘linguistic discourse analysis,’ the author shows how some
of Foucaultian ideas on discourse may be enriched, or even completed, by the rigorous ap-
plication of concepts from traditional discourse analysis, including the rhetorical approach.
1. Introduction
Whenever the issue of knowledge and/or power through discourse constitutes the
core of a study, Foucault is never far away. However, if insights into the relation-
ship between knowledge, power and discourse are supposed to be gained through
linguistic analyses, Foucault would disapprove.
Starting from common notions of knowledge, power and discourse, it would
seem obvious to linguists that the relationship between knowledge and power and
discourse is linguistic in nature, and should be dealt with at a morpho-syntactic,
lexical-semantic and probably pragmatic-argumentative level. Foucault, however,
would not agree with that. His concepts of knowledge and power are different
from the generally accepted ones. Yet, still more important, and even decisive
for the choice of analytical method, is the fact that his concept of discourse is
fundamentally different from that of linguistic discourse.
For this reason, I would first like to outline the linguistic discussion of dis-
course and then Foucault’s notion of discourse. After that, I will briefly present
some of Foucault’s ideas on discourse analysis, and show how and why linguis-
tic discourse analysis can enrich or even complete Foucault’s discourse analysis
by what we consider an analysis of rhetorical strategies. We speak of rhetorical
strategies because numerous linguistic constructions serve to achieve the general
objectives of rhetoric. Rhetoric is a very vast field, but essentially it can be said
that its fundamental goal is to turn a subjective conviction into a general one
(cf. Ueding and Steinbrink 2011: 1). As this is basically a linguistic undertaking,
it is indispensable for the orator to master the linguistic skills of convincing.
Paul Danler
232
2.  The question of knowledge, power and discourse
Before dealing in detail with the linguistic skills of convincing, I will briefly look
at the concepts of knowledge, power and discourse to get an idea of the complexity
of these notions.
2.1 Knowledge
Neuser (cf. 1996: 576) defines knowledge as a state of recognition of intersubjectively
transmittable certainty concerning the comprehension of objects in a wide sense
and/or procedures. Knowledge is understood as an insight which is considered sub-
jectively and objectively certain, and which thus yields judgements and conclusions
that constitute further knowledge (cf. Schischkoff 1982: 756). Knowledge is usually
delimited against experience, feelings, opinions and beliefs. The former is consid-
ered objective, the latter subjective. Knowledge is often defined as the recognition
of something within its context, of the nature of something, or of the very reasons
of being (cf. Neunhäusler 1963: 255). In more concrete terms, knowledge is seen as
the stock of facts, theories and rules which people have at their disposal, and which
are considered certain, valid and true. In everyday use, the term knowledge also
refers to cross-linked information which again becomes knowledge within a given
context. Furthermore, explicit knowledge is distinguished from implicit knowledge,
declarative from procedural knowledge, and a priori from a posteriori knowledge.
Yet, what is the role of knowledge in society? What is meant by knowledge society?
Upon trying to tentatively sum this up, it could be argued that a knowledge
society is a form of society in highly-developed countries in which both individual
and collective knowledge and their organization constitute the basis for social and
economic life. Theoretical knowledge has become the most important resource
in post-industrial societies, whereas in industrial societies the key resources were
natural resources, capital and workers.
The other big phenomenon which is conveyed through discourse, as insinu-
ated in the title, is power. So the next question which arises is how power can be
understood and defined.
2.2 Power
The etymological basis of the word power is potere in vulgar, i.e., spoken Latin,
meaning ability or capability. Consequently, the original meaning of having power
is simply being able to do something. However, to have power always (in the philo-
sophical school discussed in this paper) means to have power ‘over’ someone or
something. For this reason, the word power is often associated with ruling, governing
233
How to gain insights into rhetorical strategies through linguistic analysis
and controlling in everyday speech, and has a rather negative connotation (for the
traditional conception of ‘power,’ in the positive sense of power ‘with’ someone, see
Okulska this volume). In social sciences, the word power defines a person’s ability
to influence the thoughts and/or behavior of another person, social groups or parts
of the population. In this sense, power refers to the possibility to enforce one’s own
opinions.
Even though political power is just one of the numerous forms of power, it
is the one that very often serves as a basis for the development of thoughts and
theories of power. For Marx and Engels, the transformation of personal power into
material power characterizes modern societies, where money is a transcendental
power, and where capital rules (cf. McLellan 1983). In Nietzsche’s Will to Power,
however, power is an elementary motive of life itself. Striving for power is part of
nature. It is seen as something creative and constructive (cf. Nietzsche 1980). For
Max Weber, to name a third prominent person who extensively dealt with this
topic, power is socially unformed or amorphous. It should be seen as a chance to
impose one’s own will within social relationships (cf. Weber 2005).
From these very few selected examples it can be seen that knowledge and
power, both of them individual as well as social phenomena, are viewed, under-
stood and defined in different ways. The cases of discourse and discourse analysis
are no different; on the contrary, they are even more confusing and contradictory,
as we will now see.
2.3 Discourse
Discourse is a highly polysemous and thus problematic term. Text linguistics and
discourse linguistics have been in vogue since the seventies of the 20th
century.
Quite a number of different schools of thought and directions have since been
sharing the wide field of text and discourse, yet without ever finding a consensus
on how to distinguish between the two of them. Besides, there seem to be cul-
turally specific differences and/or preferences. To give a speech is prononcer un
discours in French, fare un discorso in Italian, dar un discurso in Spanish, proferir,
pronunciar or fazer um discurso in Portuguese, and a ţine un discurs in Romanian.
In these cases discourse has the meaning of ‘individual speech.’ Occasionally, and
mainly from a pragmatic perspective, discourse is understood as the material
realization of an abstract text. In this case the abstract text is located at the level
of langue. According to still another classification, discourse is a generic term for
different text types in the same field. El discurso periodístico, for example, the
discourse of the press, subsumes types of texts, such as the editorial article, the
newspaper column, the report, and so forth (cf. Herrero Cecilia 2006: 152).
Paul Danler
234
These few notions of discourse have already made clear that there is anything
but a unanimous idea of what discourse could be, especially as opposed to text.
For this reason, it makes sense to draw the line elsewhere which, however, is not
really customary in linguistics. Yet, this is what we have done (cf. Danler 2012:
353 ff.), and what many others have also done (e.g. Niehr 2014; Spitzmüller and
Warnke 2011; Viehöver et al. 2013; Busse and Teubert 2013; etc.).1
After briefly outlining some popular and current concepts of knowledge, power
and discourse, we should next take a look at Foucault’s own understanding of these
concepts. This will eventually allow us to see that Foucault’s understanding of knowl-
edge, power and discourse is radically different from the concepts outlined above.
Yet, before doing so, we will briefly look at Foucault’s methodological approach.
3. 
Foucault’s discourse analysis and his understanding of
knowledge, power and discourse
3.1  Archeology, genealogy and critique
Archeology, genealogy and critique are the three analytical concepts which pervade
Foucault’s oeuvre. They basically stand for his practical-pragmatic approach to
a historical-philosophical analysis of society through discourse analysis. Arche-
ology means the excavation of the immense field of the totality of statements
(cf. Foucault 1981). In other words, it is the precise and plausible description
of the formation of discourse (cf. Parr 2014: 235). Archeology is the excavation
of cultural facts which, as conditions of our rationality, form our thoughts and
speech (cf. Kammler 2014: 51).
However, archeology is also the uncovering of the silent order (cf. Foucault
2001) underlying the way of thinking in a given society at a given time. This silent
order, which Foucault calls episteme, is not questioned. It constitutes a historical
a priori, and as such structures forms of positive knowledge in different fields,
ranging from biology to linguistics and from medicine to economics. Episteme
hence designates the historically specific logic of knowledge or, to put it anoth-
er way, designates the general order of knowledge in a given epoch (cf. Sarasin
2008: 71 ff.). Thanks to the excavation of this silent order the relationship between
1	 If a text is a cohesive and coherent individual unit, discourse ought to be understood
as a collective, social phenomenon which serves human communicative interaction.
Discourse as opposed to text and speech should hence be seen as a stock of different
texts in use on a particular topic in a specific socio-historical, political and economic
context (cf. Danler 2012: 357).
235
discursive formations, i.e., discourse and non-discursive areas, such as the various
institutions, political events, economic practices, etc., become visible, which is one
of the main goals of Foucault’s analyses (cf. Foucault 1981).
Genealogy is a reverse side of Foucault’s analytic approach. If archeology basi-
cally aims to detect and describe statements that, grouped together, constitute a
discourse, genealogy tries to seize historical conditions that make a specific dis-
course possible in a certain society at a certain time. Genealogy must therefore
be understood as the analysis of the genesis of a given discourse (cf. Sohn 1999:
214 ff.). As a socio-historical phenomenon, discourse can only be analyzed in its
social context, and it can only be understood from a diachronic perspective. The
historical a priori creates the above-mentioned silent order, which constitutes the
basis on which historical events are discursively evaluated. Consequently, discourse
is the condition for non-discursive practices, but it is also the result of non-dis-
cursive practices. Archeology and genealogy deal with the rise of discourse per se.
In the case of archeology, it is the material realization of discourse, whereas in the
case of genealogy it is the socio-historical conditions allowing to unfold discourse
that are at the center of interest.
The third aspect of Foucault’s methodology is critique. Critique, as part of his
methodology, does not refer to the criteria of the positive realization of discourse,
but it refers to the restriction and reduction of what may be said, as well as to the
exclusion of what may not be said. In other words, it is about what may not be-
come part of discourse (cf. Sohn 1999: 216). Restriction, reduction and exclusion
as procedures of control occur at three different levels. First, there is the border-
line between what may be part and what may not be part of discourse; second,
there is the regulation of discourse which determines its depth and extension;
and third, there is the control of access to discourse. The common denominator
of these three levels is the fact that the three types of control are not intrinsic but
extrinsic (cf. Parr 2014: 235).
The next step in our analysis is the attempt to seize Foucault’s understand-
ing of knowledge, power and especially discourse with the objective to find out
the fundamental differences between the commonly accepted concepts outlined
above and Foucault’s own ideas.
3.2  Foucault’s understanding of knowledge, power and discourse
3.2.1 Knowledge
According to Foucault, achievements and innovations in science are not the result
of a long process which eventually leads to the discovery of new things, but they
are rather the result of sudden and abrupt discontinuities. Turning points or the
How to gain insights into rhetorical strategies through linguistic analysis
Paul Danler
236
beginnings of new paradigms in science are basically brought about by a new
perception of things. Things are characterized, classified and learned in a new
way. Things are put together differently, and this is how, according to Foucault,
knowledge arises. The genesis of new knowledge is consequently not a gradual
process but a radical event (cf. Foucault 2001). What is decisive for the origin of
new knowledge is the above-mentioned underlying silent order, which classifies
things, and groups them together in a new way.
There are two levels of knowledge: first, the fundamental codes of a culture, in-
volving language,2
perceptions and practices; and second, philosophers’ scientific
theories and explanations. Between these two levels there are the above-mentioned
fundamental ordering structures, which, in Foucault’s terminology, are the epis-
teme of an epoch (cf. Sarasin 2008: 96 ff.). As we have said before, the episteme as
historical a priori are the basis and prerequisites for knowledge and the different
discourses deriving from them. In other words, episteme are the preconditions for
the possibility of knowledge in a given society at a given time (cf. Ruffing 2008:
104). The desire for knowledge, however, has nothing to do with a disinterested
or innocent desire, according to Foucault. The desire for knowledge is a desire for
power. Knowledge and science are not ends in themselves, but eventually serve
dominance, the enforcement of certain interests and even deception, as already
argued by Nietzsche (cf. Fink-Eitel 1989: 67).
However, before dealing with the relationship between knowledge and power,
it will be helpful to take a look at Foucault’s concept of power as such. Indeed,
according to Foucault, discourse is all about the manifestation of power.
3.2.2 Power
According to Foucault, the basic question concerning power is how it manifests
itself (cf. Ruffing 2008: 110). To have power, in his view, always means to have
power over someone or something, as previously mentioned. However, Foucault
argues that the essence of power does not lie in the prohibition of things or actions,
but rather in the ability to induce a certain behavior. In other words, person A has
power over person B if person A manages to make person B do what person A
wants him or her to do. Besides, it would be erroneous to believe that in society
there are the powerful and the powerless. Power is everywhere, and it exists at
all interpersonal and societal levels. The politicians have power, and so do the
2	 Lexical pragmatics, however, argues that language is not a code. If it were a code, one
(linguistic) sign would have one single meaning, which is obviously not the case.
237
citizens. The teacher has power, and so does the student. The parents have power,
and so do their children (cf. Fach 2014: 127 ff.).
We have seen above that knowledge structures change. So too do power struc-
tures in the course of time. Power is still intuitively associated with some kind of
authoritarian hierarchy regardless of the field. An alternative and maybe more
modern form of power is the pastoral variant, which works in a much subtler
way. Pretending to wish someone all the best, and claiming to always stand be-
hind someone, it very often goes hand in hand with giving advice and suggesting
that a certain behavior would be best for the other person. Seen from another
perspective, however, this is equal to trying to control the other person’s deci-
sions (cf. Ruffing 2008: 109).3
When abstracting from a particular interpersonal
relationship, it can be argued that power is in the hands of those who dominate
discourse – or the discourses – in society. He or she who speaks in the interper-
sonal relationship has the power. Those who determine and control discourse in
society have the power (cf. Sarasin 2008: 115). Consequently, it is only natural
that power, be it political, social or individual, fears discourse (cf. Bublitz et al.
1999: 11) or any changes in discourse that might endanger the status quo of the
given power relations. Power tries to control discourse; it attempts to conquer
and to occupy discourse. As previously mentioned, discourse establishes rules of
what is acceptable and of what is not acceptable in a given society at a given time.
In this way discourse becomes an instrument or even the instrument of power.
Discourse is what is being fought for and, at the same time, what is being fought
with (cf. Ruffing 2008: 55). The ultimate objective of these battles is the control
of power. Power is neither good nor bad, but it is dangerous, as Foucault states
(cf. Foucault 1981, 1983, 2001, 2005a, 2005b).
Following Foucault, we acknowledge that knowledge forms discourse, and
discourse is about power. The element that still needs to be discussed after the
short survey of Foucault’s understanding of the concepts of knowledge and power
is discourse itself.
3.2.3 Discourse
Generally speaking, discourse is considered a collective, social phenomenon
serving human communicative interaction. Yet, from Foucault’s point of view,
3	 For an alternative point of view, explicating how authentic interpersonal support
can generate disinterested human action, and thus function as a relevant practice of
discourse-mediated human ethics, see esp. Ricoeur (1992: 169–202), Arendt (1998:
175–247), Grillo ed. (2005), also Habermas (1984: 273–337), etc.
How to gain insights into rhetorical strategies through linguistic analysis
Paul Danler
238
discourse is anything but a tool for human communicative interaction. It is there-
fore clear that his idea of discourse is radically different from the current com-
municative and/or linguistic notion of discourse.
In the first place, Foucault’s discourse is not related to the subject taking part in
a communicative act, either as sender or addressee. His discourse is related to the
forms of power as well as to social and institutional practices (cf. Ruffing 2008: 27;
Fink-Eitel 1989: 57). According to Foucault, discourse does not seek the truth, but
is an instrument of power (cf. Ruffing 2008: 55). His discourse is not understood
as a linguistic unit, either at the morpho-syntactic or semanto-pragmatic level.
Thus, discourse is not meant to be the object of a linguistic-semiotic analysis
(cf. Parr 2014: 234; Lorey 1999: 88). This, however, is a negative definition which,
according to Foucault, determines what should not be understood by discourse.
Yet, it is not quite clear either, how Foucault would have defined discourse in a
positive way. In his oeuvre discourse may, first, refer to all statements, which is a
very wide and therefore probably not very helpful concept. Second, discourse may
refer to a group of concrete statements, which can be singled out according to the
so-called formation to which they contribute along societal, political or institution-
al criteria. Third, discourse is understood as a regulated practice which produces
a field of statements. Discourse in this sense stands for the totality of conditions,
which make a certain practice possible (cf. Foucault 1981; Parr 2014: 234). Taking
this into account, the starting point for Foucault’s discourse analyses are concrete
statements. Foucault is not interested in what is hidden behind the explicit state-
ment, nor in what might be inferred or gathered from a statement. Discourse is
basically seen as a material instrument which brings about social objects, such
as frenzy, sexuality or normality. Discourse is a practice of thought and speech
that produces the things which discourse itself is ultimately all about (cf. Parr
2014: 234). In discourse, social objects are systematically formed. Discourse does
not represent sense but it constitutes societal sense (cf. Bublitz et al. 1999: 13).
Discourse does not speak about objects but it creates objects (cf. Lorey 1999: 89).
Going back once more to the above-mentioned issue of knowledge created
by discourse, it can be concluded that discursive practices are anonymous rules
underlying the production of statements which eventually constitute knowledge
at a certain time (cf. Kammler 2014: 54). Discourse eventually consists of explicit
statements which together create a formation system (cf. Kerchner and Schneider
2006: 10; Schrage 1999: 65). However, discourse, according to Foucault, is not a
manifestation of a critically thinking and reflective subject (Sarasin 2008: 114).
Discourse does not serve communication, and it is not meant to facilitate mu-
tual comprehension between two or more persons, either. By contrast, discourse
239
creates knowledge which is valid in a given society at a given time. Being the crea-
tor and carrier of knowledge, it induces patterns of behavior, and thus exercises
power (cf. Sarasin 2008: 149; Ruffing 2008: 55).
4. 
Foucault’s discourse analysis as opposed to linguistic
discourse analysis
From what we have seen so far, it can be concluded that Foucault’s discourse analy-
sis must be different from linguistic discourse analysis. Foucault repeatedly argued
that there is no point in analyzing discourse, i.e., what he considered discourse,
in a linguistic way. Following the principle of positivism, Foucault insisted on the
recognition of historical views, but in a way they are explicitly expressed (cf. Ruff-
ing 2008: 37) rather than interpreted or reported. It is the material occurrences
of statements that constitute discourse, rather than their interpretations. When
crystallized into enunciative patterns, the statements turn into components of the
discursive frame (cf. Parr 2014: 234). Foucault does not suggest any analytical
steps, let alone a concrete segmentation method to come to terms with discourse
in all its complexity. His discourse analysis is all about, first, filtering out the in-
ventory of the statements which are relevant for the respective discourse, second,
embedding those statements into the inter- as well as extra-discursive context, and
third, uncovering the relationship between the discursive part and corresponding
non-discursive practices (cf. Parr 2014: 236).
The goals of Foucault’s discourse analysis include, in the first place, discovering
the algorithm that generates statements which appear in discourse, and which
suppress others (cf. Sarasin 2008: 108 ff.; Lorey 1999: 88); secondly, making visible
how truths are historically invented and constructed (cf. Bublitz et al. 1999: 13);
thirdly, finding out how certain ways of speaking allow, encourage or prevent ac-
tions (cf. Kerchner and Schneider 2006: 18); fourthly, tracing rules which allow the
interplay of statements within discourse (cf. Kerchner 2006: 159); fifthly, detect-
ing who benefits from discourse and for which purpose (cf. Ruffing 2008: 105);
and sixthly, discovering the relationship between discursive and non-discursive
practices (cf. Fink 1989: 57). There is no doubt that these goals are valid and le-
gitimate; yet, concerning the method, we feel that linguistic discourse analysis is
indispensable in reaching these goals.
When arguing that linguistic discourse analysis is a further enrichment of
Foucault’s socio-historical discourse analysis (although Foucault himself was
not of that opinion), we have to take into consideration two fundamental issues.
Some of Foucault’s most important contributions to the discussion of knowledge,
power and especially discourse date from the sixties and early seventies of the
How to gain insights into rhetorical strategies through linguistic analysis
Paul Danler
240
20th
century. This was still before the rise of linguistic pragmatics and cognitive
linguistics. However, I believe that it is particularly linguistic pragmatics and
cognitive linguistics that can make for a convincing linguistic discourse analysis.
In the case of pragmatics it is especially implicit premises, the question of the
illocutionary act as well as insights gained through lexical pragmatics that are
of interest. In the case of cognitive linguistics, I would like to point out, among
other things, the valuable contributions that cognitive semantics (esp. theory of
prototypes and stereotypes, theory of metaphor and metonymy, as well as scenes-
and-frames semantics, but also cognitive valence and the choice of diathesis in
the field of morpho-syntax) can make to discourse analysis. Its approaches make
clear that the surface structure of the statements are very often not enough for
the addressee to fully understand the contents of the message. However, before
presenting a pilot case study to make my point clear, it seems indispensable to
take a look at Foucault’s role in one particular branch of discourse studies, namely
Critical Discourse Analysis, henceforth CDA.
5.  Foucault’s role in Critical Discourse Analysis (CDA)
It is widely claimed that Foucault is an important figure of CDA theoretical foun-
dations. As a discipline, CDA is not primarily a linguistic (or textual) approach to
discourse. Linguistic discourse analysis, as opposed to CDA, deals with linguistic
data, and aims to be scientifically objective, without evaluating or judging the
contents of the text or discourse which it analyzes. Any text and any discourse
can be the object of linguistic analysis. Yet, this is fundamentally different in
CDA. The topics which are of interest to CDA are (alleged) imbalances of power
and opportunities as well as injustice and unfairness in society, sexism, racism,
and so forth (cf. Kress 1990). “CDA may be defined as fundamentally concerned
with analyzing opaque as well as transparent structural relationships of domi-
nance, discrimination, power and control,” according to Wodak (2001: 2). It sees
discourse in the first place as a social practice (Fariclough and Wodak 1997: 258)
rather than a linguistic practice. CDA must be understood as a “form of critical
social research,” trying to uncover what produces “poverty, deprivation, misery,
and insecurity in people’s lives” (Fairclough 2003: 202). Leading representatives of
CDA explicitly state that it “sees itself not as dispassionate and objective social sci-
ence, but as engaged and committed. It is a form of intervention in social practice
and social relationships (…)” (Fairclough and Wodak 1997: 258).
Jäger (2001, 2012), who brilliantly combines Foucault’s discourse analysis with
linguistic discourse analysis, states that being critical by definition, CDA must
have the intention to improve nothing less than the human condition. However,
241
he is very well aware of the fact that pursuing this goal requires moral or ethical
criteria which are again man-made, i.e., which are laid down by man, with all the
risks of subjectivity inherent in that process.
Norman Fairclough, the author of numerous excellent and convincing books
on discourse analysis (Fairclough 1992; 2001; 2003; Fairclough and Fairclough
2012, etc.), has dealt with different approaches, among others also with fine-
grained linguistic as well as argumentative analyses. Besides, having explored in
depth the possibilities of integrating Foucault into practical discourse analysis,
he comes to the conclusion that
[…] for Foucault, discourse analysis is not to be equated with linguistic analysis (…).
Discourse analysis is concerned (…) with specifying sociohistorically variable ‘discursive
formations’ (…), systems of rules which make it possible for certain statements, but not
others, to occur at particular times, places and institutional locations. (Fairclough 1992: 40)
Furthermore, Fairclough quite clearly localizes his own position within CDA
when he says that “there is a major contrast here between textually (and therefore
linguistically) oriented discourse analysis (…) such as mine, and Foucault’s more
abstract approach (Fairclough 1992: 37).” Fairclough’s approach is, consequently,
in the first place a linguistically oriented one.
Foucault is doubtlessly of inestimable value for social and historical analyses,
as we have seen before. However, Lemke (1995: 29), another prominent analyst
of political texts, argues that “it is not possible to know in terms of linguistic fea-
tures of texts exactly how to interpret many of Foucault’s theoretical principles.”
Foucault himself did not intend discourse analysis to be linguistic. Yet, I will show
in the following case study in what way Foucault’s doubtlessly most original and
enriching discourse analysis can still be completed by linguistic, or in Fairclough’s
words, linguistically oriented discourse analysis.
6. 
Knowledge, power, discourse and the question of rhetoric:
A case study
We have seen that knowledge through discourse means two different things. In gen-
eral, it is said that innovations, inventions and discoveries which have crystallized
in knowledge are transmitted through (linguistic) discourse. From Foucault’s point
of view, however, it is discourse itself which brings about knowledge. Discourse de-
termines what should be known. Discourse determines what sexuality is, who goes
to jail and who goes to hospital. Discourse determines what is normal and what is
abnormal. To be informed about all these and many other things means knowing
them: and that is knowledge. Knowledge is constructed discursively.
How to gain insights into rhetorical strategies through linguistic analysis
Paul Danler
242
As to power, popular opinion says that he or she who has the knowledge of
the latest news, inventions and discoveries is an authority. Hence, he or she is in a
position to say or even impose what is right and what is wrong, which corresponds
to the classical notion of power. Yet, from Foucault’s point of view, holding power
means being able to use the discursively created knowledge in order to induce a
certain behavior on the part of the addressee. Be that as it may, from both perspec-
tives, knowledge arises through discourse even though arising through discourse
has two different meanings in the two given cases. Anyway, in both cases, power
derives from knowledge, which again is either conveyed or constructed through
discourse. Thus, discourse per se plays an important role with regard to power
and knowledge in society.
Regardless of the specifically defined meaning of discourse, discourse consists of
statements. To understand discourse, one has to understand the statements which
discourse consists of. Yet, statements are like icebergs. We get to see their tips, but
there is much more to them, hidden under the lexemic and morpho-syntactic sur-
face, and this is where linguistic discourse analysis comes into play. This means that
linguistic discourse analysis is even indispensable for (socio-historical) discourse
analysis as the following examples (taken from a speech given by Fidel Castro on
January 1st
, 1959 in Santiago de Cuba) will show. Before the analysis, I will briefly
discuss the conceptual and linguistic phenomena responsible for the concrete
material realizations of the statements constituting our illustrative study. The two
phenomena to be examined from the linguistic point of view include, in the first
place, three types of conceptual metaphor and, in the second place, the issue of
different diatheses.
Metaphors have always played a crucial role in all kinds of discourse analyses
(cf. Beer/De Landtsheer 2004; Charteris-Black 2005; 2013; Chilton 1996; Degani
2015; Semino 2008; etc.) as they go back all the way to Aristotle. However, for
centuries metaphors were considered figures of style serving textual embellish-
ment. Yet, in the meantime, it has become clear that metaphors are not deviant
forms but original and autonomous structures. A metaphor is not used instead
of another word but conveys something unique. Metaphors are primary modes
of thought (cf. Gibbs 2002: 122). Feng (2003: 55) even claims that metaphors are
indispensable for thought. Musolff (2004: 2) argues that “if our social experiences
and conceptualizations are organized in terms of metaphors, then politics, as part
of the social domain, must also be perceived and constructed metaphorically.”
In the framework of cognitive linguistics metaphor is no longer seen as a linguis-
tic phenomenon. Metaphor is conceptual (cf. Lakoff and Johnson 1980; Johnson
1987; etc.) which means that metaphor as a linguistic realization, be it a word, a
phrase or a sentence, always derives from a whole concept. Conceptual metaphor
243
theory is concerned “with the mapping of inferences,” as Grady (2007: 191) points
out. Generally speaking, and as is commonly known, metaphor is characterized by
the fact that the target domain is structured in terms of the source domain. Con-
ceptual metaphors are subdivided into three groups (cf. Lakoff and Johnson 1980;
Kövecses 2002) according to the complexity of the respective source domains. If
the source domain is highly complex and fully developed, one speaks of structural
metaphors. Love is a journey or their relationship is a war would be examples for
structural metaphors. In the case of ontological metaphors, the source domain is
much more rudimentary. It can be an object, a substance or, for example, the hu-
man body. If a certain responsibility is a heavy burden, it is perceived as a heavy
object, and if a text says that something has to be done, it is personalized, since texts
do not speak. The orientational or directional metaphor has the weakest source
domain. It is basically about directions and positions. One speaks about the fall
of an empire, but an empire does not really fall. One suffers from a rise in taxes
because one has to pay more taxes, but they do not literally go up. Movements and
positions are associated with positive or negative values.
Diathesis is the second phenomenon in the following statements, highly inter-
esting for linguistic discourse analysis, and therefore requiring a more detailed
examination. Generally speaking, diathesis stands for the perspective from which
actions, processes, states or objects are seen. Active and passive voice, causative
and recessive diatheses, as well as impersonal and passivizing SE-diatheses are the
most relevant from the perspective of linguistic discourse analysis. Concerning
the receiver’s perception, it makes a big difference if the sender says, for example,
country x bombs country y or just country y is bombed. It also makes a big difference
if the sender says that either country x started the war or simply the war started.
And there is also an important difference between el presidente cambia radical-
mente la política extranjera, ‘the president radically changes foreign politics’ and
se cambia radicalmente la política extranjera, which can only be translated by the
passive voice into English, i.e., ‘foreign politics are radically changed.’ Although
the respective syntactic structures trigger different effects, they cannot be tackled
here due to space limits.
Anyhow, let us turn to some illustrative examples of our case study with special
attention to the phenomena discussed above.
In the first three examples, it is cognitive semantics together with lexical pragmat-
ics that help clarify the statement. In quotation 1, there is a structural metaphor:
(1)	(…) Batista, que renunciaba para ahorrar derramamiento de sangre, ¿qué les parece?
(Castro 1959: 11)
	 (…) Batista, who gave up to save bloodshed? How does this sound to you?
How to gain insights into rhetorical strategies through linguistic analysis
Paul Danler
244
Ahorrar (‘save’) first of all means ‘not spend, not waste’. Yet, in the metaphori-
cal sense ahorrar derramamiento (‘save bloodshed’) means ‘to be willing to do
something so that people do not get killed.’ This, however, is not the added value
of the meanings of ahorrar and derramamiento. The meaning of the transitive
verb ahorrar changes due to the direct object it affects. It is lexical pragmatics
that helps determine the sense of a word used in the specific context, as opposed
to the signified.
In the next quotation, there is an ontological metaphor that has to be translated:
(2)	
[Cantillo] creyó que iba a ser demasiado fácil engañar al pueblo y engañar a la
Revolución. (Castro 1959: 2)
	
He [Cantillo] thought that it would be very easy to betray the people and to betray the
Revolution.
How can a Revolution be betrayed? The betray in betray the Revolution obviously
has a different meaning from that of betray a person, and again, it takes a direct
object, ‘affected’ by the transitive verb, to determine its sense.
The third example is an orientational metaphor:
(3)	La caída de Batista iba a producir una desorganización en la ciudadanía (…). (Castro
1959: 3)
	 The fall of Batista was going to cause disorder among the citizens.
The fall means a ‘drop down from a higher level to a lower level’ (Oxford Learner’s
Dictionary). The listener or reader understands that Batista did not drop down
from a higher level to a lower level, but this is the result of a cognitive process,
which is not clear purely from the text surface. Again, the theory of metaphors
and lexical pragmatics are required to explain the ‘sense’ of the fall of Batista.
Quotation 4 is syntactically interesting because of its recessive diathesis:
(4)	 La Revolución empieza ahora. (Castro 1959: 1)
	 The Revolution starts now.
When starting from the text surface, it is as if the phenomenon revolution started
to act out of intrinsic forces, which is not the case, of course. Upon analyzing this
statement, it becomes clear that empezar (‘start’) can be used in a causative but
also in a recessive way: somebody starts something or something starts. In order
not to state explicitly who started the militant activities, the orator may prefer the
recessive diathesis over the causative one.
In example number (5), it is cognitive valence as opposed to syntactic valence
that helps us complete the syntactic structure:
(5)	 A nosotros no nos quedaba otra alternative que atacar. (Castro 1959: 13)
	 We had no choice but to attack.
245
The verb attack is bivalent, i.e., transitive. At the syntactic level, however, the
second argument is not specified. This, however, does not mean that it has disap-
peared. It has disappeared from the text surface, but cognitively it is still there for
both the sender and the addressee. Attack means attack someone or something.
It becomes clear again that the text surface on its own is not enough. Physically
missing information is tentatively completed at the cognitive level.
The last quotation by General Cantillo illustrates the importance of lexical
pragmatics:
(6)	Han variado mucho las circunstancias en sentido favorable a una solución nacional.
(Castro 1959: 4)
	 The circumstances have changed considerably in favor of a national solution.
Lexical pragmatics claims that inference rather than the understanding of individ-
ual words is a key to comprehension because absolute meanings do not exist. The
words circumstances, change, considerable and solution seem to be prototypically
relative terms that can only be understood in the context in which they are used.
Besides, the meanings of these words do not only depend on the context, but also
on the ideological perspective. In other words, much information has to be taken
into consideration again in order to understand these words in the given context.
These few examples make it clear that linguistic discourse analysis is an indis-
pensable tool for a full understanding of the textual surface structure of statements
that constitute discourse.
7. Conclusions
If power means being able to induce a certain behavior in other people, as Foucault
suggested, knowledge entails power because it allows to plausibly explain what
should be done or what must be done. This works at least to a certain extent at
the rational level. Power understood in this way, is transmitted through discourse,
yet, as we have seen, it all amounts to the question of what discourse is or how
discourse is defined. We have seen that Foucault’s concept of discourse refers to
the silent ordering structure which generates statements that end up constituting
a discursive formation. At the same time, however, Foucault’s concept of discourse
also refers to those concrete and materially realized statements which discourse
consists of. Foucault’s discourse is not about what can be inferred, added or inter-
preted on the basis of the locutionary act. However, since the heyday of linguistic
pragmatics and cognitive linguistics, it has become clear that language is not a
code. Hence, linguistic communication functions thanks to inference and not
on the basis of the decryption of a code. Yet, linguistic discourse analysis does
How to gain insights into rhetorical strategies through linguistic analysis
Paul Danler
246
not aim to replace Foucault’s historico-sociological discourse analysis, which is
undoubtedly of great merit. Foucault has shown that social realities, normality
and even truths are the result of discursive constructions, which are, however,
linguistic in nature.
In the terminology of cognitive pragmatics (cf. Sperber and Wilson 2001;
Wilson 2003), the assimilation of discursively transmitted information leads to
positive cognitive effects on the part of the addressee. This simply means that new
information either creates new knowledge, or modifies existing knowledge, or
makes existing information obsolete. Bearing this in mind it can be argued that
the sender will always strive to get across the new information so that the com-
municative act is felicitous. For this reason, rhetorical skills always turn out to be
advantageous, be it on a private or a public level, and rhetorical skills are linguis-
tic skills. In conclusion, I would therefore like to point out that apart from the
meticulous compilation of authentic statements, which result in discourse from
the socio-historical perspective, linguistic discourse analysis, which explores the
linguistic nature of rhetorical strategies, makes important contributions to dis-
course analysis in general.
To sum up, it can be said that linguistic, or in Fairclough’s terms, linguistically
oriented discourse analysis is indispensable to grasp the rhetorical strategies often
skillfully hidden in textual manifestations that eventually constitute a discourse
in Foucault’s socio-historical terms.
Speech
Discurso pronunciado por el doctor Fidel Castro Ruz, en el Parque Céspedes, de
Santiago de Cuba, el 1ro
de enero de 1959.
http://www.cuba.cu/gobierno/discursos/1959/esp/f010159e.html (Last accessed
12.06.2015)
Online dictionary
Oxford Learner’s Dictionaries: http://www.oxfordlearnersdictionaries.com/ (Last
accessed 12.06.2015)
References
Arendt, H. 1998. The Human Condition. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Beer, F. A.; De Landtsheer, Ch. (eds.) 2005. Metaphorical World Politics. Michigan
State University Press: East Lansing.
247
Bublitz, H. et al. 1999. “Diskursanalyse – (k)eine Methode? Eine Einleitung.” In
Bublitz, H. et al. (eds.) Das Wuchern der Diskurse. Perspektiven der Diskursana-
lyse Foucaults. Frankfurt am Main – New York: Campus, 10–21.
Busse, D.; Teubert, W. (eds.) 2013. Linguistische Diskursanalyse: neue Perspektiven.
Wiesbaden: Springer VS.
Charteris-Black, J. 2005. Politicians and Rhetoric. The Persuasive Power of Meta-
phor. Basingstoke: Palgrave.
Charteris-Black, J. 2013. Analysing Political Speeches. Rhetoric, Discourse and
Metaphor. Basingstoke: Palgrave.
Chilton, P. 1996. Security Metaphors. Cold War Discourse from Containment to
Common House. New York etc.: Peter Lang.
Danler, P. 2012. “Textfunktionen und Diskurstypen.” In Born, J. et al. (eds.) Hand-
buch Spanisch. BerlIn Erich Schmidt Verlag, 353–364.
Degani, M. 2015. Framing the Rhetoric of a Leader. An Analysis of Obama’s Election
Campaign Speeches. Basingstoke: Palgrave.
Fairclough, N. 1992. Discourse and Social Change. Cambridge: Polity Press.
Fairclough, N. 2001. Language and Power. Harlow etc.: Longman.
Fairclough, N. 2003. Analysing Discourse. New York: Routledge.
Fairclough, I.; Fairclough, N. 2012. Political Discourse Analysis. London – New
York: Routledge.
Fairclough, N.; Wodak, R. 1997. “Critical Discourse Analysis.” In van Dijk, T. A.
(ed.) Discourse as Social Interaction. Vol. 2. London etc.: Sage, 258–284.
Feng, X. 2003. Konzeptuelle Metaphern und Textkohärenz. Tübingen: Gunter Narr.
Fink-Eitel, H. 1989. Foucault zur Einführung. Hamburg: Junius Verlag.
Foucault, M. 1979. Der Wille zum Wissen. Frankfurt am Main: Suhrkamp [1976
La volonté de savoir. Paris: Gallimard].
Foucault, M. 1981. Archäologie des Wissens. Frankfurt am Main: Suhrkamp
[1969 L’archéologie du savoir. Paris: Gallimard].
Foucault, M. 2001a. Die Ordnung des Diskurses. Frankfurt am MaIn Fischer [1972
L’ordre du discours. Paris: Gallimard].
Foucault, M. 2001b. “Linguistik und Sozialwissenschaften.” In Defert, D.; Ewald,
F. (eds.) Michel Foucault. Schriften in vier Bänden. Dits et Écrits. Band 1, 1954–
1969. Frankfurt am Main: Suhrkamp, 1042–1068.
Foucault, M. 2005a. “Die Maschen der Macht.” In Defert, D.; Ewald, F. (eds.)
Michel Foucault. Analytik der Macht. Frankfurt am Main: Suhrkamp, 220–239
[1976 “As malhas do poder. Vortrag”].
How to gain insights into rhetorical strategies through linguistic analysis
Paul Danler
248
Foucault, M. 2005b. “Subjekt und Macht.” In Defert, D.; Ewald, F. (eds.) Michel
Foucault. Analytik der Macht. Frankfurt am Main: Suhrkamp, 240–263 [1982
“The Subject and Power”].
Gibbs, R. W. Jr. 2002. The Poetics of Mind. Figurative Thought, Language, and
Understanding. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Grady, J. E. 2007. “Metaphor.” In Geeraerts, D.; Cuyckens, H. (eds.) The Oxford
Handbook of Cognitive Linguistics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
188–213.
Grillo, E. (ed.). 2005. Power without Domination. Dialogism and the Empowering
Property of Communication. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Habermas, J. 1984. The Theory of Communicative Action. Vol. 1. Reason and the
Rationalization of Society. Boston: Beacon Press.
Herrero Cecilia, J. 2006. Teorías de pragmática, de lingüística textual y de análisis
del discurso. Cuenca: Ediciones de la Universidad de Castilla-La Mancha.
Jäger, S. 2001. Kritische Diskursanalyse. Duisburg: DISS.
Jäger, S. 2012. Kritische Diskursanalyse. [Vollständig überarbeitete Auflage]. Du-
isburg: DISS.
Johnson, M. 1987. The Body in the Mind. The Bodily Basis of Meaning, Imagination
and Reason. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Kammler, C. 2014. “Archäologie des Wissens’.” In Kammler, C. et al. (eds.):
Foucault Handbuch. Stuttgart – Weimar: Metzler, 51–62.
Kerchner, B. 2006. “Wirklich Gegendenken. Politik analysieren mit Michel
Foucault.” In Kerchner, B.; Schneider, S. (eds.) Foucault: Diskursanalyse der
Politik. Eine Einführung. Wiesbaden: Verlag für Sozialwissenschaften, 145–164.
Kerchner, B.; Schneider, S. 2006. “‘Endlich Ordnung in der Werkzeugkiste’. Zum
Potenzial der Foucaultschen Diskursanalyse für die Politikwissenschaft – Ein-
leitung.” In Kerchner, B.; Schneider, S. (eds.) Foucault: Diskursanalyse der Poli-
tik. Eine Einführung. Wiesbaden: Verlag für Sozialwissenschaften, 9–30.
Kövecses, Z. 2002. Metaphor. A Practical Introduction. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Kress, G. 1990. “Critical Discourse Analysis.” Annual Review of Applied Linguistics
(11), 84–99.
Lakoff, G.; Johnson, M. 1980. Metaphors We Live By. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Lemke, J. L. 1995. Textual Politics. London: Taylor & Francis.
Lorey, I. 1999. “Macht und Diskurs bei Foucault.” In Bublitz, H. et al. (eds.) Das
Wuchern der Diskurse. Perspektiven der Diskursanalyse Foucaults. Frankfurt
am Main – New York: Campus, 87–96.
249
McLellan, D. 1983. The Thought of Karl Marx: an Introduction. London: Macmillan.
Musolff, A. 2004. Metaphor and Political Discourse. Basingstoke: Palgrave.
Neunhäusler, A. 1963. Grundbegriffe der philosophischen Sprache. München:
Ehrenwirth.
Neuser, W. 1996. “Wissen.” In Prechtl, P. (ed.) Metzler-Philosophie-Lexikon. Stutt-
gart etc.: Metzler, 576.
Niehr, T. 2014. Einführung in die linguistische Diskursanalyse. Darmstadt: Wis-
senschaftliche Buchgesellschaft.
Nietzsche, F. 1980. Der Wille zur Macht. Versuch einer Umwertung aller Werte.
Stuttgart: Kröner.
Parr, R. 2014. “Diskurs.” In Kammler, C. et al. (eds.) Foucault Handbuch. Stutt-
gart – Weimar: Metzler: 233–237.
Ricoeur, P. 1992. Oneself as Another. Chicago and London: University of Chicago
Press.
Ruffing, R. 2008. Michel Foucault. Paderborn: Wilhelm Fink Verlag.
Sarasin, P. 2008. Michel Foucault. Zur Einführung. Hamburg: Junius.
Schischkoff, G. (ed.) 1982. Philosophisches Wörterbuch. Stuttgart: Kröner.
Schrage, D. 1999. “Was ist ein Diskurs? Zu Michel Foucaults Versprechen, «mehr»
ans Licht zu bringen.” In Bublitz, H. et al. (eds.) Das Wuchern der Diskurse.
Perspektiven der Diskursanalyse Foucaults. Frankfurt am Main – New York:
Campus, 63–74.
Sellhoff, M. 2014. “‘Die Ordnung des Diskurses’.” In Kammler, C. et al. (eds.)
Foucault Handbuch. Stuttgart – Weimar: Metzler, 62–68.
Semino, E. 2008. Metaphor in Discourse. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Sohn, W. 1999 “Diskursanalyse – am Beispiel der klassischen Genetik.” Bublitz,
H. et al. (eds.) Das Wuchern der Diskurse. Perspektiven der Diskursanalyse
Foucaults. Frankfurt am Main – New York: Campus, 210–230.
Sperber, D.; Wilson, D. 2001. Relevance. Communication & Cognition. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Spitzmüller, J.; Warnke, I. H. 2011. Diskurslinguistik. Eine Einführung in Theorien
und Methoden der transtextuellen Sprachanalyse. Berlin – Boston: De Gruyter.
Ueding, G.; Steinbrink, B. 2011. Grundriß der Rhetorik. Stuttgart – Weimar: Metzler.
Viehöver, W. et al. (eds.) 2011. Diskurs – Sprache – Wissen. Interdisziplinäre Beiträ-
ge zum Verhältnis von Sprache und Wissen in der Diskursforschung. Wiesbaden:
Springer VS.
Weber, M. 2005. Wirtschaft und Gesellschaft. Grundriss der verstehenden Soziolo-
gie. Leipzig: Zweitausendeins.
How to gain insights into rhetorical strategies through linguistic analysis
Paul Danler
250
Wilson, D. 2003. “Relevance and lexical pragmatics.” Rivista di Linguistica 15 (2),
273–291.
Wodak, R. 2001. “What CDA is about – a summary of its history, important
concepts and its developments.” In Wodak, R.; Meyer, M. (eds.) Methods of
Critical Discourse Analysis. London etc.: Sage, 1–13.
Grzegorz Kowalski
University of Warsaw
Metaphors of SCIENCE in political
discourses across the Iron Curtain
A case study of Harold Wilson’s and
Edward Gierek’s speeches
Abstract: The author argues that metaphorical representations of science (e.g., SCIENCE
IS ACTOR / THEATRE, SCIENCE IS SERVANT, or SCIENCE IS HUMAN BODY / LIV-
ING ORGANISM) as constructed in political speeches are, in spite of some differences,
not specific to a given political system. It is suggested that their use may be influenced by
scientistic ideology that claims science’s cognitive omnipotence.
1.  Introduction
In the present paper I analyze two political speeches on science delivered by left-
wing statesmen: Harold Wilson’s Labour’s Plan for Science (1963) and Edward
Gierek’s Nauka instrumentem socjalistycznego rozwoju Polski [‘Science – instru-
ment of socialist development of Poland’] (1973). The research question concerns
the usage of metaphors of science therein. It is assumed that to some extent the
two political speeches originating in much different political, economic and so-
cial contexts may feature similar metaphors, based on the same source domains,
inasmuch as the latter belong to the realm of human cognitive system, largely
independent of the above-mentioned circumstances. Empirical analysis provides
proof to this hypothesis.
The paper starts with a brief discussion, in section 2, on the prevalence of sci-
entistic ideology in political texts on science in the 1960s and 1970s. An outline
of recent research on the usage of metaphors in various discourses, in particular
political, is presented in section 3, followed in section 4 with background informa-
tion on the contexts in which the two speeches analyzed were delivered. Empiri-
cal analysis, split into subsections addressing specific categories of metaphors, is
presented in section 5, its conclusions summarized in section 6.
Grzegorz Kowalski
252
2. 
Scientistic ideology in European political discourse on
science in the 1960s and 1970s
As I have discussed elsewhere (Kowalski 2015) in relation to Euratom, EEC and
EU decisions and resolutions adopting the successive framework programs for
research, technological development and demonstration activities, European po-
litical discourse has represented the relationship between science and society dif-
ferently in different periods of time. In particular, in the 1970s it gives prominence
to the scientistic approach, followed in the next decade with a more skeptical
stance, which I have found congruent with Beck’s (1992, 1995, 1998) concept of
risk society. Since the 1990s one can observe a growing focus of EU legislation
on the redefinition of traditionally separated domains of science and society into
their more interactional relation (cf. Mode 2 science in Gibbons et al. 1994). Most
recent documents have been shown to emphasize the role of new technologies
in mutual stimulation of the two domains, in which case Suarez-Villa’s (2001,
2012) model of technocapitalism and Latour’s (1998) view of the end of the world
of science in post-modern society were cited as theoretical concepts best aligned
with the ideological representations of science and society in EU legislative texts.
The present analysis shows that national political discourse in Europe has been
influenced by major tenets of scientistic ideology already in the 1960s. Specifically,
in line with its tenets, science is vested with such attributes as cognitive omnipo-
tence (“there are no limits to science,” Sorrell 1994: 4) and infallibility (“science
has been enormously successful at prediction,” ibid.). Science is thus expected to
provide answers to vital social problems, and contribute to general welfare of post-
modern societies. In scientistic approach science is thus idolized, and researchers
deemed its savvy champions, which status distinguishes them from the general
public. As Gibbons et al. (1994: 36) put it, in scientistic ideology the former are
recognized as “holders of privileged expert knowledge,” while the latter are “the
lay public […] to be enlightened and educated.”
However, scientistic approach towards science found in European national po-
litical discourse of the 1960s and 1970s, in fact, features two – antithetical to some
extent – ideological stances. On the one hand, science is revered as capable of driv-
ing war-stricken nations out of crisis, economic, agricultural, industrial and other,
towards a welfare state. In this respect science is deemed a warrant of quick – and af-
fordable – development, whereby new technologies and practical solutions would be
provided to citizens at low cost and in wide distribution. Yet on the other hand, such
an approach implies that the ethos of science is compromised, with its applicative
dimension being given almost exclusive priority over theoretical or meta-scientific
ones. Briefly, science may have been idolized, but it was also servilized.
Metaphors of SCIENCE in political discourses across the Iron Curtain 253
While the Iron Curtain divided Europe into two antagonistic blocs, differentiat-
ed, among others, by political regimes, economic policies and status of individual
in society, in certain aspects Western countries and Soviet satellite states experi-
enced similar conditions in the 1960s and 1970s. Firstly, and toutes proportions
gardées, the debt caused by WW2 expenditures and losses was still unsettled in
many countries. Secondly, new military conflicts broke out overseas at that time,
which, in turn, increased expenditures of many countries bound by new post-war
alliances with the USA or Soviet Union. Thirdly, former Western empires were
now losing their political and economic position, with more and more colonies
declaring their independence; consequently, countries like Great Britain, France,
Portugal or the Netherlands were obliged to reorient their economies towards self-
reliance. Finally, and importantly, as far as home affairs are concerned, societies
were developing rapidly, and new technological solutions were largely changing
Europe’s industrial landscape and everyday life of its citizens. In the light of the
above-outlined circumstances, social (and political) expectations towards im-
mediately applicable and effective outcomes of research were also similar on both
sides of the Iron Curtain.
In the present paper I analyze how these expectations are represented in po-
litical discourses originating in communist/socialist and capitalist states. Follow-
ing the thematic profile of the volume, I am particularly interested in rhetorical
strategies used by politicians, among which metaphor seems to be one of the
most recurrent ones.
3.  Metaphor in political discourse: An overview
The seminal work by Lakoff and Johnson (1980) has deeply altered the linguistic
approach to metaphor. In contrast to a traditional definition of metaphor as a
stylistic device (“a device of the poetic imagination and the rhetorical flourish,”
as Lakoff and Johnson 1980: 3 put it), and a topic of scholarly interest mainly in
literary studies, Metaphors we live by views metaphors as an inherent element of
human cognitive system and a common feature of everyday language. Accord-
ing to Lakoff and Johnson (1980), metaphors enable language users to represent
abstract and complex concepts (target domain) in terms of more concrete and
tangible ones (source domain). The latter often belong to a repertoire of relatively
primitive concepts, cognitive universals,1
which Johnson (1987) later termed im-
age schemas. Analyzing several examples of idiomatic expressions, Lakoff and
1	 For a discussion of this problem in relation to political discourse, see Chilton (2004:
51–52).
Grzegorz Kowalski
254
Johnson (1980) show that not only do they fall into general patterns (e.g., ARGU-
MENT IS WAR, TIME IS MONEY or EMOTIONS ARE CONTAINERS), but
these patterns can also further be subsumed into even more general classes (e.g.,
spatial metaphors, orientational metaphors, structural metaphors, etc.) What fol-
lows is that metaphors (1) are not randomly used, but constitute a shared set of
idiomatic expressions regularly used by speakers; (2) form systems referring to
primitive concepts to represent more complex and/or abstract ones.
Since its publication Lakoff and Johnson’s (1980) theory of conceptual meta-
phor has been adopted in various fields of linguistic studies, including Discourse
Analysis (DA), where much research has been devoted to investigating the use of
metaphors in specific discourses. For instance, in his work on scientific discourse,
Halliday (2006) develops a theory of grammatical metaphor, complementary to
Lakoff and Johnson’s conceptual one, whereby Halliday shows a systematic char-
acter of metaphorical processes operating not only at the semantic level, but also
syntactic. Other scholars focused on metaphors applied in research papers in
specific fields of science (e.g., biotechnology in Hellsten 2008, Smith 2009 or
Journet 2010; palaeontology in Talairach-Vielmas 2013; marine biology in Urena
Gómez-Moreno and Faber 2014; social sciences in Kray 2010), or metaphors
whereby scientific phenomena are named in popular scientific discourse (e.g.,
Starzec 1999, Knudsen 2003).
As for other fields, metaphors have also been found to be recurrent in class-
room discourse (e.g., Cameron 2003). Their occurrence in economic discourse is
discussed by Mirowski and Cook (1990), who provide examples of field-specific
hermetic jargon, which makes considerable use of metaphor to discuss the nature
of complex economic processes.
Interesting research has also been devoted to the use of metaphors in medical
settings, for instance, in doctor-patient interaction, also in terms of cross-cultural
East vs. West differences (Hanne 2015), or military metaphors used in this context
(Arrigo 1999). Metaphors are also discussed in business and corporate discourse,
for instance, in Koller (2004), who takes a critical perspective to show potentially
sexist preference for traditionally masculine areas of activity (e.g., war, sport)
as source domains in metaphorical representations related to the above fields.
Sardinha and Herrmann eds. (2015) feature papers discussing the use of meta-
phors in different specialist discourses and genres, including “biology research
articles, psychological counseling, soccer commentaries, workfloor communica-
tion, and penal policy documents.”
It should also be noted that DA research on metaphors makes more and more
extensive application of corpus research (for a detailed overview, see Deignan
Metaphors of SCIENCE in political discourses across the Iron Curtain 255
2005). Among recently published relevant contributions one should indicate the
above-mentioned monographs by Koller (2004) and Musolff (2004).	
However, the field which has probably received most DA coverage in terms of
the use of metaphors is political discourse. For instance, Charteris-Black (2009)
combines the theory of conceptual metaphor with Aristotelian tripartite model of
rhetoric to discuss the effectiveness of the former in political speeches. Kowalski
(2015) discusses metaphorization of science and society relationship in Euratom,
EEC and EU legislative documents. Papers in Carver and Pikalo eds. (2008) pro-
vide insights into cross-cultural and diachronic similarities and differences in the
use of metaphors in political texts. A similar approach is adopted by Scheithauer
(2007) in an analysis of metaphors used in television coverage of elections in Great
Britain, Germany and the USA. Researchers have also focused on metaphorical
representations of political concepts in various public discourses (e.g., metaphors
of EU in Musolff 2004, Falkowska 2008 or Carta 2014). A list of relevant contri-
butions can be found in the introduction to Cap and Okulska eds. (2010), which
features at least two other interesting contributions to the study of metaphor in
political discourse. In particular, Musolff (2010) presents a historical overview
of HUMAN BODY- and HUMAN HEALTH-related metaphors of political phe-
nomena, whereas the latter metaphor is discussed by Skinner and Squillacote
(2010) as characteristic of American political discourse on the War on Terror.
4. 
Harold Wilson’s 1963 and Edward Gierek’s 1973
speeches on science
Considering spatial limitations I have selected two speeches to illustrate which
metaphors of SCIENCE were employed in European national political discourse
in the Cold War period. The two speeches in question are Harold Wilson’s La-
bour’s Plan for Science and Edward Gierek’s Nauka instrumentem socjalistycznego
rozwoju Polski. Despite evident geopolitical and historical distance between them,
the two speeches and the contexts of their delivery share certain points of resem-
blance. Firstly, the two politicians represent a socialist stance, Wilson being the
Leader of the Labour Party and Gierek the First Secretary of the ruling Polish
United Workers’ Party.
Secondly, the speeches were delivered in the time of major political and/or eco-
nomic changes in the UK and Poland. In the former case, the year 1963 augured
the end of the 13-year rule of the Conservative party and the ensuing changes in
all fields of cabinet policies transferred to the Labour Party the following year. In
the latter case, in 1973, authorities of the Polish People’s Republic re-adjusted the
forecasts scheduled for the so-called fourth five-year plan (1971–1975), increasing
Grzegorz Kowalski
256
the predicted rise in the gross national income from 39% to 55%, in industrial pro-
duction from 50% to 60%, in agricultural produce from 20% to 23%, and in real
pay levels from 18% to 38%, though these figures eventually proved unattainable.
Thirdly, both statesmen emphasized their faith in the role of science as instru-
mental in achieving the anticipated outcomes of their policies, and frequently
voiced opinions consistent with scientistic optimism (see section 1). What re-
mains to be analyzed empirically is how these relatively similar contextual cir-
cumstances influenced Wilson’s and Gierek’s rhetorical styles, and in particular
their selection of specific metaphors of SCIENCE.
4.1  Harold Wilson’s Labour’s Plan for Science speech2
Harold Wilson (1916–1995) was a British politician of the Labour Party and twice
Prime Minister (1964–1970 and 1974–1976). His Labour’s Plan for Science speech
was delivered on 1st
October 1963, six months after his nomination as Leader of
the Labour Party, during the Party’s rally in Scarborough. At that time Harold
Macmillan’s Conservative government experienced a major crisis due to the so-
called Profumo affair disclosed in summer 1963, which eventually led to his res-
ignation on 18 October 1963. Consequently, this led to the general elections held
on 15 October 1964, which resulted in a slight four-seat victory of the Labour
over the Conservative and the subsequent formation of Harold Wilson’s cabinet.
In his speech Wilson presented his and his party’s program for developing the
UK’s scientific potential, which objective was to be achieved in four steps: (1) in-
creasing the number of researchers; (2) motivating them to carry out research
in the UK rather than abroad; (3) promoting cost-effective and feasible projects;
(4) focusing on effective translation of research results into industrial applications,
which would necessitate relevant reorganization of activity in both Research &
Development departments and industrial enterprises.
As for the first goal, Wilson supported the development of higher education
and foundation of new universities, for which reason he also opted for the estab-
lishment of the Ministry of Higher Education. Also, new programs for vocational
and technological pedagogy were to be designed.
To avoid brain-drain Wilson called for further investments into updating cur-
rent university infrastructure and research equipment to the standards found
in parallel institutions abroad. Importantly, he also pointed out the problem of
2	 The analysis is based on the official reprint of Harold Wilson’s Labour’s plan for science
speech, available at: http://nottspolitics.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/Labours-
Plan-for-science.pdf. (Last accessed: 30.12.2015).
Metaphors of SCIENCE in political discourses across the Iron Curtain 257
limited generation succession in research, which may discourage young research-
ers from waiting for promotion in scientific career.
In one of the strongest (see, e.g., Edgerton 1996) arguments against Conserva-
tive R&D policy, Wilson criticized Macmillan’s government for giving priority
to large-scale research projects in strategic branches (especially military), which
many a time ended in a fiasco or political cancellation (e.g., Blue Streak ballis-
tic missile programme). Instead, the Labour Party’s leader opted for small-scale
research projects, which would take advantage of new technologies, and which
would provide ready-to-use solutions to different spheres of British industry and
social life.
Finally, Wilson highlighted the necessity that R&D developments should show
greater awareness of the current needs of industry branches, and correspondingly,
the latter should formulate their expectations towards the former in a more sys-
tematic and precise way.
4.2 Edward Gierek’s Nauka instrumentem socjalistycznego
rozwoju Polski speech3
Edward Gierek (1913–2001) was the First Secretary of Polska Zjednoczona Partia
Robotnicza ‘Polish United Workers’ Party,’ the ruling party in the Polish People’s
Republic, which office he held between 20 December 1970 and 6 September 1980.
His speech postdates Wilson’s by ten years. It was delivered as an opening
address during II Kongres Nauki Polskiej ‘2nd
Congress of Polish Science,’ held in
Warsaw on 26–29 June 1973. Unlike the first congress (29 June – 2 July 1951),
which focused on organizational issues related to the revival of Polish science after
WW2, and was conducive to the foundation of the Polish Academy of Sciences
in October 1951, the second congress aimed at summarizing the results of Polish
research achieved throughout this period. Importantly, in accordance with the
general theme of the congress, Nauka w służbie narodu, participants were ex-
pected to focus on practical industrial and social applications of scientific activity.
This leading topic of the congress frequently resurfaces in Gierek’s address,
where he underlines mutual stimulation of scientific progress and development
of socialist state and society. As has been mentioned above, in the midterm of
the so-called fourth five-year plan (1971–1975) the authorities presented new
estimates concerning the values of economic factors attained during the plan,
3	 The analysis is based on the transcript of Edward Gierek’s speech published in Hałoń,
E. ed. (1974) II Kongres Nauki Polskiej: materiały i dokumenty. T. 1, Sesje plenarne, 26
i 29 czerwca 1973 r. Warszawa -Wrocław: Zakład Narodowy im. Ossolińskich, 11–19.
Grzegorz Kowalski
258
increased in comparison with the original prognosis. In his speech Gierek even
anticipated a threefold rise in gross national income in 20 years’ time; to reach
these – unattainable, as later became apparent – thresholds Polish science was
obliged to become more sensitive to essential economic problems, and in turn to
provide ready-to-use solutions to specific branches thereof.
5. 
Metaphors of SCIENCE in Wilson’s and Gierek’s speeches:
empirical analysis
The following sections present examples of metaphors of SCIENCE found in Wil-
son’s and Gierek’s speeches. These include: SCIENCE IS SERVANT (section 5.1),
SCIENCE IS MILITARY FORCE (5.2), SCIENCE IS ACTOR (5.3), SCIENCE IS
MOVEMENT (5.4), SCIENCE IS LIVING ORGANISM (5.5) and other (5.6).
5.1  Metaphor: SCIENCE IS SERVANT
The SCIENCE IS SERVANT metaphor is frequently employed by both statesmen.
In Wilson’s speech it is probably expressed strongest in the opening sentences, in
which the politician recalls his contribution to the 1960 Scarborough debate over
the party’s programmatic document Labour in the sixties:
1.	[W]e must harness Socialism to science, and science to Socialism.
The connotations of harness clearly set the relationship between science and so-
cialism. The harnessed one is paralleled to a workhorse, the other to a cart which
the workhorse is to haul. Thus, the former also has a role more important than
servitude: it acts as the driving force for the latter, without which it would not
progress. The roles are, however, reciprocal: science drives socialism forward in-
asmuch as socialism does to science. Wilson’s dictum also construes the third
participant, the harnesser, one who is the master of the workhorse and the owner
of the cart. The harnesser is referred ambiguously to as ‘we,’ whose scope of de-
notation can include the whole British society, but it can also mean the future
decision-makers in the Labour cabinet.	
The concept of harness reappears in a further part of the speech, when Wilson
speaks about co-operation between science and industry:
2.	
[U]nless we can harness science to our economic planning, we are not going to get
the expansion that we need.
Here the concept of harness is paralleled with control: without proper political
control science and economy may develop independently and in unwanted direc-
tions, thus hampering British economic development and making the country less
Metaphors of SCIENCE in political discourses across the Iron Curtain 259
competitive internationally. Unlike in example (1), the scope of reference of 1st
person plural pronoun is clearly defined: it is the Labour’s future cabinet, which
Wilson construes as the harnesser and economic planners.
The metaphor SCIENCE IS SERVANT is also recurrent in Gierek’s speech:
3.	
W całym tym okresie polska myśl naukowa dobrze służyła socjalistycznej ojczyźnie,
a ludzie nauki wnieśli swój ważki wkład do wielkiego dorobku narodu.
[In this entire period Polish scientific thought served socialist fatherland well, and
people of science made their significant contribution to the great output of the nation.]
While all the above examples feature the metaphor SCIENCE IS SERVANT, Wil-
son’s rhetorical style represents this relationship in the imagery of workhorse,
cart and driver, whereas Gierek draws on the imagery of master and servant. In
this case the former role is enacted by the Polish People’s Republic, the social-
ist fatherland, as the First Secretary puts it, while the latter is played by science,
metonymized in example (3) as myśl naukowa ‘scientific thought.’ Freedom of
scientific activity is then compromised in consequence of being urged to fulfill
social needs, all the more so as Gierek makes it subject to evaluation in terms
of science’s subordination (polska myśl naukowa dobrze służyła socjalistycznej
ojczyźnie ‘Polish scientific thought served socialist fatherland well’) and its tan-
gible contribution to the country’s global output.
In example (4), however, Gierek argues that the subordinate position of sci-
ence towards socialist state is not imposed, but volitionally chosen by the former.
4.	
Nauce, która pragnie służyć socjalistycznemu narodowi, a taką jest nauka polska,
dalekosiężna perspektywa rozwojowa kraju jest niezbędna jak powietrze.
[Science, which wants to serve the socialist nation, and such is Polish science, a far-
reaching perspective of the country’s development is as essential as air]
Excerpt (4) also contains the metaphor SCIENCE IS LIVING ORGANISM (see
section 5.5), an organism whose vital processes depend on contributing to the de-
velopment of the socialist state. Thus, science, which is not subordinate to socialist
society, simply has no raison d’être. Similarly, in excerpt (5) Gierek juxtaposes sci-
ence which abides by socialist ideology and social expectations with science other-
wise independent. In Gierek’s argument the latter case is not welcome, since in the
face of the snowballing scientific and technological progress science must accept
certain constraints; otherwise the progress will have disastrous consequences
(cf. metaphor SCIENCE IS MOVEMENT / ELEMENT discussed in section 5.4).
These include risks as diverse as environmental calamities and corruption of hu-
manistic values. Logically and morally, science is therefore obliged to assume the
role of servant to the socialist state:
Grzegorz Kowalski
260
5.	
Dziś, kiedy lawinowy postęp naukowo-techniczny zwielokrotnia ludzkie możliwości pa-
nowania nad przyrodą i wytwarzania dóbr materialnych, socjalizm tworzy dla tego
postępu właściwe warunki społeczne i infrastrukturę ideowo-moralną. Poza tymi
warunkami i bez tej infrastruktury nie da się uniknąć żywiołowych konsekwencji po-
stępu naukowo-technicznego, dewastacji środowiska naturalnego człowieka i zagrożenia
humanistycznych wartości.

[Today, when the snowballing scientific and technical progress multiplies human capa-
bilities of dominating nature and of producing material goods, socialism creates appro-
priate social conditions and ideological and moral infrastructure for this progress.
Beyond these conditions and without this infrastructure one can not avoid the conse-
quences of natural disasters of scientific and technical progress, the devastation of natural
environment and the threat to humanistic values.]
5.2  SCIENCE IS MILITARY FORCE
Another metaphor of science recurrent in both speeches is SCIENCE IS MILI-
TARY FORCE. Connotations of this concept are also consistent with scientistic
ideology: military force can be associated with power and determination, which
attributes are also central to the scientistic approach to science as omnipotent
and capable of solving essential social problems. Yet, on the other hand, the con-
cept of military force connotes unconditional subordination to some instance of
superior rank.
Wilson’s speech abounds in the relevant military imagery:
6.	
That […] was one of the main themes of Signposts for the Sixties – the mobilisation
of all the resources available to us in this new scientific revolution.
In excerpt (6) current scientific achievements are paralleled with revolution, which
metaphor implies sudden and extensive character of the process, but also one
whose direction, impact and consequences are hardly controllable or predictable.
Revolution also means eradication of the old order of scientific activity, which
Wilson frequently juxtaposes with new vistas of science in his speech. According
to Wilson, there is no point for traditional science, the army of Old Order, in fight-
ing against revolution, and thus all resources available are summoned to join it.
Old Order army and opponents of scientific revolution are openly disdained:
those who show fear are compared to ostriches, which metaphor of cowardice is
all the stronger as it uses derogatory zoological imagery (excerpt 7). Wilson also
makes a historical reference to Luddites, 19th
-century saboteurs of the Industrial
Revolution in textile factories, which term is currently used depreciatingly to
any opponent of technology (after Cambridge Dictionary). Luddites to scientific
revolution are expelled from the ranks of the Labour Party:
Metaphors of SCIENCE in political discourses across the Iron Curtain 261
7.	
It is no good trying to comfort ourselves with the thought that automation need not
happen here; that it is going to create so many problems that we should perhaps put
our heads in the sand and let it pass us by. Because there is no room for Luddites
in the Socialist Party.
The metaphor of mobilization resurfaces in different parts of Wilson’s speech; for
instance, failure of mobilizing all the resources available in chemical engineer-
ing translated into crisis of this field in the UK. Once missed opportunity has its
apparent consequences in other countries dominating the market and exporting
chemical infrastructure:
8.	
[W]e have never mobilised to the full the possible resources of chemical engineer-
ing. […] We would train and we would mobilise chemical engineers to design the
plants that the world needs, plants which are at present being supplied far too often
by Germany and by America on the basis of British know-how and research.
Military metaphors are also used by Gierek. In excerpt (9) he forecasts the changes
in Polish economy in the course of two decades, in particular emphasizing the
impact of new technologies. In this respect Gierek employs a vivid imagery of
invasion, which will penetrate Polish economy across a broad front:
9.	
W ciągu najbliższych 20 lat trzykrotnie wzrośnie wartość majątku narodowego, ale
przede wszystkim zmieni się jakość naszej gospodarki. Szerokim frontem wkroczy do
niej najnowocześniejsza technika.
[In the next 20 years the gross national income will increase threefold, but above all
the quality of our economy will change. Most advanced technology will enter across a
broad front.]
Gierek also parallels the efforts undertaken by scientists to provide solutions to
essential social problems with a battlefield. While science may not always provide
sufficient resources to take part in this struggle, it can rely on its allies, among whom
Gierek enumerates the labour force, experts, technicians and qualified workers:
10.	
I w tej dziedzinie nauka ma do spełnienia zasadniczą rolę. Jej sojusznikami na tym
polu powinni stać się wszyscy ludzie pracy, specjaliści z wyższym wykształceniem,
technicy, kwalifikowani robotnicy.
[And this is the area where science has to perform an essential role. Its allies in this field
should be all men of labour, specialists with higher education, technicians and qualified
workers.]
Finally, military metaphors of science are applied in relation to social sciences,
which Gierek urges to provide stronger scientific scaffolding to socialist ideology.
In this part of his argument he uses several military concepts and collocations, as
is shown in excerpt (11):
Grzegorz Kowalski
262
11.	
Zarysowany na naradzie program intensyfikacji wysiłków badawczych nauk społecz-
nych i zwiększenia ich ofensywności w walce o zwycięstwo socjalistycznej ideologii
jest słuszny. […] Marksistowsko-leninowskie nauki społeczne stanowią ważny odcinek
jednolitego frontu badań naukowych.
[Outlined during the meeting, the program of intensifying research efforts of social sci-
ences and to increase their offensiveness in the struggle for the victory of socialist
ideology is correct. […] Marxist-Leninist social sciences are an important segment of
the united front of scientific research.]
5.3  SCIENCE IS ACTOR
Another recurrent metaphor, though almost exclusively used in Gierek’s speech, is
SCIENCE IS ACTOR, which is often verbalized in the idiom odgrywać rolę ‘play
a role’. It may be argued that ideologically the SCIENCE IS ACTOR metaphor is
similar to SCIENCE IS SERVANT, in that both challenge a major tenet intrinsic
to the ethos of science, namely its autonomy and right to self-determination. In-
stead, both metaphors assume that science is subordinate to external institutions,
political ideologies and/or social demand in particular, and as such it is expected
to satisfy the pre-specified goals.
In his speech Gierek refers to science playing a role four times. In each case
science is praised inasmuch as the role it is supposed to play is the leading role
(cf. rola pierwszorzędnej wagi ‘the role of primary importance’ in excerpt 12 or
rola szczególna ‘special role’ in excerpt 13). However, this role is not self-selected;
instead, science is cast in this emploi by political ideology, socialist economy and
social demands. Using the theatrical/cinematic metaphor further, science has to
play by the script:
12.	
Nauka polska bowiem, jako całość właśnie, ma do odegrania obecnie i w nadchodzącej
przyszłości rolę pierwszorzędnej wagi.
[Because Polish science, in its very entirety, has to play now and in future the role of
primary importance.]
13.	
W obecnej strategii społeczno-ekonomicznego rozwoju kraju nauce polskiej przypada
rola szczególna.
[In the current strategy of socio-economic development of the country Polish science is
given the special role.]
By contrast, Wilson uses the SCIENCE IS ACTOR metaphor in his speech only
once. In his criticism of the deeply-rooted elitist image of British science he
juxtaposes two metaphorical worlds of scientists as players: the British act as
Metaphors of SCIENCE in political discourses across the Iron Curtain 263
Gentlemen, while scientists the world over already assumed the role of Player.4
It
is worth noting that Wilson expresses a caustic remark in this argument, claiming
that British science is actually “content” to hold its elitist status, ignorant of the
changing global context. According to Wilson, progress in science and technology
and their competitive edge in international markets depend on scientists’ ability
to change their long-cherished emploi into a new one that is more applauded,
economically speaking:
14.	
At the very time that even the M. C. C. [Marylebone Cricket Club] has abolished
the distinction between amateurs and professionals, in science and industry we are
content to remain a nation of Gentlemen in a world of Players.
5.4  SCIENCE IS MOVEMENT
Common to both speeches is the set of metaphors related to movement, whereby
science is attributed with dynamism. As Table 1 shows, relevant metaphorical
representations involve either more abstract concepts of process or more concrete
concepts of agents or tools thereof.
4	 In this fragment Wilson alludes to a historic decision of Marylebone Cricket Club, for-
mally having the status of the major cricket association in England and Wales, but also
recognized as the world cricket association. On 31 January 1963 Marylebone Cricket
Club abolished the class-based system of matches known as “Gentlemen vs Players,”
introduced in 1807. This system distinguished between professional cricket players,
most of whom represented the working class, and gentlemen, i.e. amateurs, members
of British aristocracy, who treated cricket merely as pastime and not occupation. It
can thus be noted that Wilson’s metaphor takes sports rather than theatre as its source
domain, though it still foregrounds the aspect of playing.
Grzegorz Kowalski
264
Table 1. 
Two subtypes of SCIENCE IS MOVEMENT metaphor: SCIENCE IS PROCESS
and SCIENCE IS AGENT / TOOL OF PROCESS in Gierek’s and Wilson’s
speeches
Gierek Wilson
SCIENCE IS PROCESS rozwój nauki i jej przeobrażający
wpływ na praktykę ‘development of
science and its transforming influence
on practice’; postępem naukowo-
technicznym ‘scientific-technical
progress’; szybki postęp nauki ‘rapid
progress of science’
technological change;
rapid revolution;
technological
progress;
scientific progress;
technological advance;
rapid scientific change
SCIENCE IS AGENT /
TOOL OF PROCESS
instrumentem socjalistycznego rozwoju
‘instrument of socialist development’;
dźwigni wzrostu gospodarki ‘lever of
economic growth’; dźwignię rozwoju
‘lever of development’; wkładu
naszej nauki w ogólnoludzki dorobek
‘contribution of our science to the
universal heritage’; siłą rozwojową,
bezpośrednim, stałym i dynamicznym
czynnikiem twórczym ‘developmental
force, direct, constant and dynamic
creative factor’; czynnik sprawczy
‘causal factor’
stagnant backwater;
(fruit-bearing tree –
see section 5.6);
resources of chemical
engineering; means of
human destruction vs.
munitions of peace
Both statesmen rhetorically construe scientific progress in the 1960s and 1970s
as phenomenon of unprecedented scale and impact, whose consequences can
hardly be predicted in longer perspective. It may seem that they demonize it, es-
pecially Wilson, whose examples presenting capabilities of modern technologies
and vivid similes which enable a layman to imagine their potential can, indeed,
sound startling.5
Yet, according to Gierek and Wilson, scientific progress may be
detrimental only if it is not properly controlled and its force not channeled into
desired directions. This goal can be achieved provided that science develops along
the lines specified in policies set forth by both statesmen.
Specifically, Wilson juxtaposes the negative image of uncontrolled scientific
progress with the positively valued vision of science implementing the major
tenets of the Labour’s political program. The former relies on the powerful concept
5	 E.g., paralleling the calculating potential of computers with a walker circling the Equa-
tor in one second, if the time needed to perform one mathematical process by the
former equals the time needed to take one step by the latter.
Metaphors of SCIENCE in political discourses across the Iron Curtain 265
of blindness to denote chaotic manner of development; the latter employs a series
of idyllic images, strengthened with a series of epithets (‘undreamed of living
standards,’ ‘leisure ultimately on an unbelievable scale’):
15.	[O]nly if technological progress becomes part of our national planning can that
progress be directed to national ends. So the choice is not between technological
progress of the kind of easy-going world we are living in today. It is the choice
between the blind imposition of technological advance […], and the conscious,
planned, purposive use of scientific progress to provide undreamed of living stand-
ards and the possibility of leisure ultimately on an unbelievable scale.
Similarly, Gierek depicts the potency inherent to current scientific development,
using lexical items connoting its power and unprecedented scale (lawinowy postęp
‘snowballing progress,’ zwielokrotnia ludzkie możliwości ‘multiplies human capa-
bilities’). Yet, as in Wilson’s parallel presented in excerpt (15), this positive image
is contrasted with the imminent risk of science turning into destructive element,
detrimental to natural environment and fundamental human values. According
to Gierek, this dreadful scenario can be avoided if scientific progress is aligned
with socialist policy, which again resembles the argument set forth by Wilson:
16.	
Dziś, kiedy lawinowy postęp naukowo-techniczny zwielokrotnia ludzkie możliwości
panowania nad przyrodą i wytwarzania dóbr materialnych, socjalizm tworzy dla
tego postępu właściwe warunki społeczne i infrastrukturę ideowo-moralną. Poza tymi
warunkami i bez tej infrastruktury nie da się uniknąć żywiołowych konsekwencji
postępu naukowo-technicznego, dewastacji środowiska naturalnego człowieka i za-
grożenia humanistycznych wartości.
[Today, when the snowballing scientific and technical progress multiplies human capa-
bilities of dominating nature and of producing material goods, socialism creates appropri-
ate social conditions and ideological and moral infrastructure for this progress. Beyond
these conditions and without this infrastructure one can not avoid the consequences of
natural disasters of scientific and technical progress, the devastation of natural environ-
ment and the threat to humanistic values.]
However, the image of scientific progress as violently advancing force is not always
negatively evaluated. In excerpt (17) from Gierek’s speech the vivid collocation
torować sobie drogę ‘elbowing/fighting one’s way’ personifies scientific progress,
or even makes it similar to Juggernaut:
17.	
We wszystkich dziedzinach życia torował sobie drogę postęp społeczny, ekonomiczny,
naukowo-techniczny i kulturalny.
[In all domains of life social, economic, scientific-technical and cultural progress was
fighting its way.]
Grzegorz Kowalski
266
Nevertheless, in Gierek’s view, it seems more reasonable for socialism to pave ways
for scientific progress first and then push it in the desired tracks rather than to
let it loose, as the metaphor in excerpt (17) implies. The metaphor of delineating
tracks, presented in excerpt (18), again underlines the advantages, if not necessity,
of subordinating science to socialist policies:
18.	
Szło nam o wytyczenie przed nauką polską takich dróg rozwojowych, aby mogła
ona odgrywać coraz większą rolę w kształtowaniu nowoczesnej socjalistycznej Polski.
[We wanted to delineate such tracks of development for Polish science that it can play
an increasingly important role in shaping modern socialist Poland.]
An interesting metaphor in the category SCIENCE IS MOVEMENT is used by
Wilson to depict the consequences of refusing science to develop at the cur-
rent pace; here suppressing science is likened to “stagnant backwater.” Or, if the
metaphorical domain is followed, putting a dam will inevitably reduce the flow
to stagnancy.
19.	If we try to abstract from the automative age, the only result will be that Britain will
become a stagnant backwater, pitied and condemned by the rest of the world.
A comparable imagery appears in Gierek’s speech, although in this case the sense
of suppression is not rendered through the metaphor of DAM and STAGNANT
WATER, but one of CAPTIVITY / PRISON (connoted by the verb wyzwolić ‘liber-
ate, release’) or DEAD MACHINE (connoted by the verbs wyzwolić ‘release’ and
uruchomić ‘activate’). Polysemy of the verbs wyzwolić and uruchomić makes this
metaphor ambiguous, and leaves it open to many interpretations.
20.	
Nie taimy, że dotychczasowy wpływ nauki na unowocześnienie i odnawianie produkcji
nie odpowiada potrzebom naszego kraju, ani też możliwościom naszej nauki i naszego
przemysłu. W tej dysproporcji kryje się wielka rezerwa naszego rozwoju. Musimy
wyzwolić ją i uruchomić.
[We do not hide the fact that so far the impact of science on the modernization and
renewal of production has not met the needs of our country, nor the capabilities of our
science and our industry. In this disparity lies a great reserve of our development. We
need to liberate it and activate it.]
Compared with Wilson’s rhetoric, Gierek more often employs the metaphor SCI-
ENCE IS AGENT / TOOL OF THE PROCESS. Sometimes the source domain is
rather vague and/or immaterial, as is the case of siła rozwojowa ‘developmental
force’ and czynnik twórczy ‘creative factor’ in excerpt (21):
21.	
Idzie o stałe zwiększanie wpływu nauki na postęp ekonomiczny i społeczny, o to, aby
stała się ona w coraz większym stopniu siłą rozwojową, bezpośrednim, stałym i
Metaphors of SCIENCE in political discourses across the Iron Curtain 267
dynamicznym czynnikiem twórczym oddziałującym na tempo, jakość i charakter
rozwoju Ojczyzny.
[Its aim is to achieve a constant increase of the impact of science on economic and social
progress; to make it more and more a developmental force, a direct, constant and
dynamic creative factor influencing the pace, quality and nature of the development
of the Fatherland.]
However, in other parts of his argument, Gierek uses a more concrete concept of
an instrument, the lever, which alludes to the classic Archimedean aphorism “Give
me a lever and a place to stand and I will move the earth.”6
If this parallel is valid,
then science is shown as capable of moving Polish economy and society forward:
22.	
Również rola przekazywania wiedzy jako dźwigni wzrostu gospodarki i doskonalenia
życia społecznego staje się obecnie większa niż kiedykolwiek.
[Also, the role of transferring knowledge as a lever of economic growth and improvement
of social life is now greater than ever.]
23.	
Polska myśl naukowa miała zawsze wybitne osiągnięcia. Natomiast możliwość prze-
kształcenia ich w dźwignię rozwoju ojczystego kraju w szerokiej skali otworzyła do-
piero Polska Ludowa.
[Polish scientific thought has always had outstanding achievements. Yet the ability to
convert them into a lever of development of the home country on large scale was opened
only by the Polish People’s Republic.]
The SCIENCE IS LEVER metaphor also intermingles with another metaphor re-
current in Gierek’s speech, SCIENCE IS BUILDER / DEVELOPER (see examples
24–26). Its popularity can possibly be associated with the historical context of
the 1970s in Poland, when restoration of WW2-damaged infrastructure was still
under way. Many of these endeavors were highly mediatized and thus engraved in
public conscience, for instance, the reconstruction of the Royal Castle in Warsaw,
decreed by Gierek in 1971. Also, the 1970s decade witnessed the construction of
new infrastructure in Poland, for instance Warsaw Central railway station (built
in 1972–1975), Spodek sport and entertainment arena (1964–1971), a similar
Arena in Poznań (1972–1974), Bełchatów power station (1975) and lignite mine
(1980), Gdańsk oil refinery (1972–1975) or Rybnik Coal Mining Industrial Area
(1960s-1980s), to name but a few. References to building and development are
thus not surprising, also when used in metaphorical sense in relation to the evo-
lution of socialist state.
6	 English translation from J. J. Spielvogel and W. J. Duiker (2008) World History vol. 1,
Boston: Cengage Learning, p. 124.
Grzegorz Kowalski
268
24.	
Jest to główna dźwignia dynamicznego wzrostu gospodarki narodowej i wszechstron-
nego zaspokajania potrzeb społecznych, budowania nowoczesnego potencjału Polski
i dobrobytu narodu.
[This is the main lever of dynamic growth of national economy and of universal satisfac-
tion of social needs, of building the modern potential of Poland and welfare of the nation.]
25.	
Tę wizję Polski socjalistycznej – nowoczesnej i zasobnej, ku której zmierzamy, współ-
tworzy nauka i ludzie nauki.
[This vision of socialist Poland – modern and prosperous, one toward which we are
heading, is co-created by science and scientists.]
26.	
Nauka polska bowiem, jako całość właśnie, ma do odegrania obecnie i w nadchodzącej
przyszłości rolę pierwszorzędnej wagi. Proces tworzenia, budowy i rozwoju społeczeń-
stwa socjalistycznego wymaga pomnożenia jej udziału w tym wielkim dziele.
[Because Polish science, in its very entirety, has to play now and in future the role of
primary importance. The process of creating, building and developing socialist society
requires that its contribution to this great oeuvre is multiplied.]
5.5  SCIENCE IS LIVING ORGANISM
In both speeches science is also represented as animate, also as agent endowed
with freewill and consciousness. Such an image appears in Wilson’s argument,
when – as in the case of excerpt (15) – he outlines a dreadful vision of uncontrolled
progress of science. He forecasts the evolution of Artificial Intelligence to a point
when human factor is no longer relevant:
27.	And when machine tools have acquired, as they now have, the faculty of unassisted
reproduction, you have reached a point of no return where if man is not going to assert
his control over machines, the machines are going to assert their control over man.
In excerpt (27), Wilson uses different discursive means to demonize scientific
progress. Firstly, he uses metonymy to reduce science to ‘machines,’ which are then
juxtaposed with ‘man’. Secondly, machines are used in the subject position twice
(machine tools have acquired… the machines are going to assert their control…),
which, semantically, casts them in the role of Agent, and, symbolically, endows
them with volition and freedom to act. The latter is also implied in the choice
of ‘going to’ construction, which expresses either willingness to perform an act
(“future fulfillment of present intention,” Quirk et al. 1985: 214) or “future result
of present cause” (ibid.) The context does not solve this interpretational ambigu-
ity. Finally, ambiguity concerns the addressee: by using second-person pronoun
Wilson addresses his audience directly, but the pronoun, having the same singular
and plural form, can denote the audience as a whole or each person individually.
Metaphors of SCIENCE in political discourses across the Iron Curtain 269
As far as Gierek’s speech is concerned, the SCIENCE IS LIVING ORGANISM
metaphor is employed in excerpt (28). Here, the statesman enumerates distinctive
components of the world of science: szkoły naukowe ‘scientific schools,’ pokolenia
uczonych ‘generations of scholars’ and instytuty naukowo-badawcze i szkoły wyższe
‘R&D institutes and universities’. As in the case of excerpt (27), these science-
related concepts are used in the subject position, although they are not agents
proper, since the relevant predicates are verbs of processes rather than actions.
Nevertheless, the verbs used by Gierek can be subsumed under the semantic field
of vital and evolutionary processes in living organisms (rozwinęły się ‘developed,’
powstały ‘emerged / appeared,’ wyrosły ‘grown’):
28.	
Rozwinęły się tradycyjne i powstały nowe, prężne szkoły naukowe, w wielu dziedzi-
nach. Wyrosły nowe pokolenia uczonych, rozwinęły się instytuty naukowo-badawcze
i szkoły wyższe, powstały rozliczne powiązania nauki z gospodarką narodową.
[In many fields traditional scientific schools have developed and new buoyant ones have
emerged. New generations of scholars have grown, R&D institutes and universities have
developed, numerous links between science and national economy have appeared.]
5.6 OTHER
Finally, there should be mentioned some other ingenious metaphors used in both
speeches, which appeared more sporadically than the above five types. For in-
stance, Wilson once refers to “fruits of research,” hence representing SCIENCE
as FRUIT-BEARING TREE. This metaphor has some resemblance to the above-
discussed metaphor SCIENCE IS LIVING ORGANISM, inasmuch as it draws on
vital processes – though not physiological or evolutionary, as has been illustrated
in excerpts (27) and (28), but vegetational:
29.	
[W]e are prepared to see the fruits of this sponsored research developed by public
and private industry alike.
In the next sentence Wilson replaces the concept of fruit with profits, thus chang-
ing the source domain from fruit-bearing TREE to profit-bringing BANK. The
metaphor is complemented by the verb accrue, which, like profits, is adapted from
banking jargon:
30.	
[W]e hold it as a basic principle that the profits which result from State sponsored
research should accrue in good measure to the community that created them.
Similarly, Gierek represents science in financial terms as bogactwo ‘wealth,’ al-
though one which is unmeasurable (bezcenne ‘priceless’).
Grzegorz Kowalski
270
31.	
Nauka stanowi bezcenne bogactwo narodu, jeden z głównych składników jego poten-
cjału twórczego.
[Science is a priceless wealth of the nation, one of the main components of its creative
potential.]
Finally, it is necessary to mention the SCIENCE IS FOUNDRY metaphor used
in the closing statement of Wilson’s speech, in which case science is likened to
foundry, and scientific progress to forging (“in white heat,” as Wilson puts it),
whose result is new Great Britain. The metaphor is vivid and ingenious; the col-
location “white heat of revolution” coined by Wilson has become an idiom in
the English lexicon, and the entire speech is commonly referred to in the UK as
“White Heat Speech” rather than by its original title.
32.	
The Britain that is going to be forged in the white heat of this revolution will be
no place for restrictive practices or for outdate methods of either side of industry.
6. Conclusions
The two speeches analyzed, Edward Gierek’s Nauka instrumentem socjalistycznego
rozwoju Polski and Harold Wilson’s Labour’s Plan for Science, originate in two dif-
ferent political, economic and social realities, separated by the Iron Curtain. While
both represented socialist views and were leaders of left-wing parties, Wilson
enjoyed this status in a democratic state, with free-market economy and citizens
warranted all civic freedoms fundamental to democracy, whereas Gierek held
the superior political position in a socialist state of the Soviet bloc, with state-
controlled economy and few liberties granted to citizens.
Just as the two contexts are different, so appear the rhetorical styles used by
Gierek and Wilson. The former’s speech is relatively general and abstract. An open-
ing address at the 2nd
Congress of Polish Science, it begins with greetings for par-
ticipants, and ends with a praise of Marxist-Leninist ideology. By contrast, Wilson’s
speech is basically a programmatic manifesto of the Labour Party’s policy, set forth
in four points (see section 4.1 for details). Yet the author frequently changes the
perspective to a personal account (e.g., meetings with Soviet leaders, reading about
an invention in a newspaper article, children in Wilson’s constituency); also, he
presents figures on scientific development in specific areas and comments on them.
His speech abounds in examples, similes, parallel constructions and other rhetorical
devices, and contains a considerable amount of factual data (references to particular
persons, institutions, places, events, etc.), which are almost absent in Gierek’s speech.
Yet, the paper has shown that these evidently contrasting discourses share their
authors’ preference for one stylistic figure: metaphor of science. In particular, most
Metaphors of SCIENCE in political discourses across the Iron Curtain 271
of these metaphors represent the same source domains, likening SCIENCE to
SERVANT, MILITARY FORCE, ACTOR, MOVEMENT (PROCESS) and MOVE-
MENT (AGENT / TOOL OF THE PROCESS) and LIVING ORGANISM, exam-
ples of which were found in both texts. Only a small number of metaphors were
found to be used by one author only, e.g. LEVER and BUILDER/DEVELOPER
in Gierek’s speech, and TREE and FOUNDRY in Wilson’s.
In a more general perspective, the discourse of the two speeches can be aligned
with scientistic ideology, in particular in their confidence in the potential of con-
temporary research, which, however, requires – in the opinion of the speakers –
careful political guidance to drive it into relevant directions. Thus, from both
speeches there emerges as antithetical conceptualization of science (see section 2);
on the one hand it is idolized as omnipotent FORCE, MOVEMENT, ELEMENT
or Aristotelian LEVER to set the universe in motion; on the other hand, it is
servilized as a SERVANT at society’s service or an ACTOR enacting their role
according to the script drafted by society.
References
Arrigo, B. A. 1999. “Martial metaphors and medical justice: Implications for law,
crime, and deviance.” Journal of Political & Military Sociology 27 (2), 307–323.
Beck, U. 1992. Risk Society: Towards a New Modernity. London: Sage.
Beck, U. 1995. Ecological Politics in an Age of Risk. Cambridge: Polity Press.
Beck, U. 1998. World Risk Society. Cambridge: Polity Press.
Cameron, L. 2003. Metaphor in Educational Discourse. London: Continuum.
Cap, P. and U. Okulska (eds.) 2010. Perspectives in Politics and Discourse. Amster-
dam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Carta, C. 2014. “Use of metaphors and international discourse: The EU as an
Idiot power, a deceptive Pangloss and a Don Juan in his infancy.” Cooperation
& Conflict 49 (3), 334–353.
Carver, T. and J. Pikalo (eds.) 2008. Political language and metaphor: Interpreting
and changing the world. New York: Routledge.
Charteris-Black, J. 2009. “Metaphor and political communication.” In A. Musolff
and J. Zinken (eds.) Metaphor and Discourse. Basingstoke, Hampshire: Palgrave
Macmillan, 97–115.
Chilton, P. (2004) Analysing political discourse: Theory and practice. London – New
York: Routledge.
Deignan, A. H. (2005) Metaphor and corpus linguistics, Amsterdam and Phila-
delphia: John Benjamins.
Grzegorz Kowalski
272
Edgerton, D. (1996) “The ‘White Heat’ Revisited: The British Government and
Technology in the 1960s.” Twentieth Century British History 7 (1), 53–82.
Falkowska, M. 2008. “‘Global metaphors’? On metaphors of European integration
in Polish, English and French.” In U. Okulska and G. Kowalski (eds.) Discourse
Variation across Communities, Cultures and Times. Warsaw: University of War-
saw, 157–182.
Gibbons, M.; C. Limoges; H. Nowotny; S. Schwartzmann; P. Scott; Trow M. 1994.
The new production of knowledge. The dynamics of science and research in con-
temporary society. London – Thousand Oaks – New Delhi: Sage.
Halliday, M. A. K. 2006. The Language of Science (ed. Jonathan J. Webster). Vol. 5 in
“The Collected Works of M. A. K. Halliday.” London – New York: Continuum.
Hellsten, I. 2008. “Popular Metaphors of Biosciences: Bridges over Time?.” Con-
figurations 16 (1), 11–32.
Johnson, M. 1987. The Body in the Mind: The Bodily Basis of Meaning, Imagination,
and Reason. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Journet, D. 2010. “The Resources of Ambiguity: Context, Narrative, and Metaphor
in Richard Dawkins’s The Selfish Gene.” Journal of Business & Technical Com-
munication 24 (1), 29–59.
Knudsen, S. 2003. “Scientific metaphors going public.” Journal of Pragmatics
35 (8), 1247–1264.
Koller, V. 2004. Metaphor and Gender in Business Media Discourse: A Critical
Cognitive Study. New York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Kowalski, G. 2015. “Recontextualizing science and society in EU legislative dis-
course.” In A. Duszak and G. Kowalski (eds.) Academic (inter)genres: between
Texts, Contexts and Identities. Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang, 61–104.
Kray, T. R. 2010. “Metapher und sozialwissenschaftliche Terminologie. Anmer-
kungen zur räumlichen Metaphorik bei Bruno Latour.” Sociologia Internatio-
nalis 48 (1), 113–142.
Lakoff, G. and M. Johnson 1980. Metaphors We Live By. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Latour, B. 1998. “From the world of science to the world of research?.” Science
(280), 208–209.
Mirowski, P. and P. Cook 1990. “Walras’ Economics and Mechanics: Translation,
Commentary, Context.” In W. J. Samuels (ed.) Economics as Discourse. An
Analysis of the Language of Economists. Rotterdam: Springer, 189–224.
Musolff, A. 2004. Metaphor and political discourse: Analogical reasoning in debates
about Europe. Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Metaphors of SCIENCE in political discourses across the Iron Curtain 273
Musolff, A. 2010. “Political metaphor and bodies politic.” In P. Cap and U. Okulska
(eds.) Perspectives in Politics and Discourse. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John
Benjamins, 23–41.
Quirk, R.; Greenbaum, S.; Leech, G. and J. Svartvik 1985. A comprehensive gram-
mar of the English language. London: Longman.
Sardinha, T. B. and J. B. Herrmann (eds.) 2015. Metaphor in Specialist Discourse.
Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Scheithauer, R. 2007. “Metaphors in election night television coverage in Britain,
the United States and Germany.” In A. Fetzer and G. E. Lauerbach (eds.) Political
Discourse in the Media. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins, 75–106.
Skinner, D. and R. Squillacote 2010. “New bodies: Beyond illness, dirt, vermin
and other metaphors of terror.” In P. Cap and U. Okulska (eds.) Perspectives in
Politics and Discourse. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 43–60.
Smith, B. 2009. “The Price of Metaphor is Eternal Vigilance: Language Metaphors
in Popular Genetics.” International Journal of the Humanities 6 (10), 79–86.
Sorell, T. 1994. Scientism: Philosophy and the Infatuation with Science. London:
Routledge.
Starzec, A. 1999. Współczesna polszczyzna popularnonaukowa. Opole: Wydaw-
nictwo Uniwersytetu Opolskiego.
Suarez-Villa, L. 2001. “The rise of technocapitalism.” Science Studies 14 (2), 4–20.
Suarez-Villa, L. 2012. Globalization and Technocapitalism: The Political Economy
of Corporate Power and Technological Domination. London: Ashgate.
Talairach-Vielmas, L. 2013. “Shaping the Beast.” European Journal of English Stud-
ies 17 (3), 269–282.
Urena Gómez-Moreno, J. M. and P. Faber 2014. “A cognitive sociolinguistic ap-
proach to metaphor and denominative variation: A case study of marine biol-
ogy terms.” Review of Cognitive Linguistics 12 (1), 193–222.
Christian Kock
University of Copenhagen
Inception: How the unsaid may become
public knowledge
Abstract: Applying the combined rhetorical and pragmatic framework, the author analyzes
three types of mechanisms that allow political speakers to suggest some apparently shared
‘public knowledge.’ The study shows that presupposition is a convenient pragmatic and
rhetorical device for manipulating the alleged ‘public knowledge’ used by politicians to
make citizens accept their seemingly justified decisions.
1. Introduction
Arguably, the discipline of rhetoric can be defined as the study of communication
as it impacts on the minds of audiences. This paper will look at examples of one
category of such an impact: it will study how utterances by a speaker may − more
or less strongly − invite audiences to interpret them as conveying semantic content
that is not explicitly expressed. In other words, some people in the audience take
that content as part of what the speaker meant to say, yet it is not manifestly there
in the speaker’s utterances.
It is of course a trivial insight that speakers’ utterances imply more than they
explicitly state. There have been insightful studies of how politicians implicitly
convey views they want their audiences to accept, as for example the rhetorician
Sigrell’s (1995) study of persuasion ‘between the lines’ in modern political argu-
mentation, or the discourse analyst van Dijk’s (2005) study of ‘political implica-
tures’ in Spanish Prime Minister Aznar’s rhetoric on his country’s participation
in the Iraq war. The views conveyed in these ways generally are ones that the
speakers in question also state explicitly, and indeed in any way they can; however,
what is common to the phenomena I will look at below is that they may, in the
understanding of some hearers, convey content that the speaker a) is not willing
to state explicitly, and b) would deny if asked point-blank whether he intended
to convey it. In fact, in the case studied, the speaker did deny it.
The case concerns public speeches given by President George W. Bush during
the half year that preceded the invasion of Iraq in March 2003, and the particular
notion that I believe some hearers believed he meant to convey, but which he did
Christian Kock
276
not claim, was that Iraq’s dictator Saddam Hussein had somehow been involved
in the terrorist acts of September 11, 2001.
Without discussing whether Bush and his speechwriters deliberately intended
their words to convey this notion, I wish to emphasize that there may be the follow-
ing advantages for a public speaker in conveying certain notions in this manner:
First, the speaker cannot be held responsible for them since he did not state them
or otherwise convey them in a manner that is manifest and unquestionable (e.g., by
direct assertion or by presupposition). Second, these notions are likely to ‘fly under
the radar’ of many in the speaker’s audience, since non-explicit semantic content is
ubiquitous in human communication. In the standard case, it helps securing speedy
and unimpeded communication between people, and hence it is normally processed
rather automatically by hearers and out of their mental focus; for these reasons, at
least, some hearers are likely to accept such content unreflectingly as being part of
the speaker’s meaning, and maybe even as being true. Third, for the same reasons,
the speaker is not so likely to be expected to offer argumentation in their support.
Because of these potential advantages a public speaker may have a strong motive
for using language inviting hearers to imply views that the speaker does not wish
to state or to argue for − views that he does not want to be consciously processed,
questioned or scrutinized. To the extent the speaker is successful in this, such views
may become part of what many in the audience consider public, shared knowledge.
An important pioneer in the study of implicit semantic meaning is the philoso-
pher H. Paul Grice. The first of three phenomena that I will exemplify belongs to
the category he, in a celebrated paper, called conversational implicature (Grice 1975,
1989). I will then discuss examples of two related concepts inspired by his approach;
I call them fuzzy reference and suggestive sentence collocation. I will discuss these
three mechanisms in descending order of what we may call ‘suggestive force.’ Con-
versational implicature is the type I think most likely to suggest unasserted ideas
in hearers’ minds; hence these are the ones that make it most relevant to blame the
speaker for manipulation. The other two types may also act suggestively and auto-
matically in varying degrees, but here a smaller part of the blame may be laid to the
speaker and a correspondingly larger part to the carelessness of hearers.
In my rhetorical analysis, I will specifically suggest that several pronounce-
ments by President George W. Bush shortly before the invasion of Iraq had the
capacity to prompt, invite or sustain. In the minds of hearers the idea that Iraq’s
Saddam Hussein was somehow complicit in the terrorist acts of September 11.
This idea, which Bush never explicitly asserted, became widespread in the U.S.
population in the months preceding the invasion of Iraq, concurrent with the
rhetorical campaign by the Bush administration from which I draw my examples.
Inception: How the unsaid may become public knowledge 277
More generally, I will suggest that an explicit and nuanced awareness of such
phenomena can help rhetoricians and other students of public and political com-
munication expose and illuminate phenomena that deserve such exposure. Be-
cause they work the way they do, many hearers may accept ideas conveyed in this
way without reasons for them being asked, or given. Moreover, I believe much
of the mental work in the minds of hearers who accept these ideas is automatic
and subliminal; and that is another reason why it is useful to be distinctly aware
of what goes on. Hence, it is particularly useful to know these devices and to be
able to distinguish between them. That way we citizens, and also the media, may
better recognize them and engage in analysis and deliberation when we hear
them; and we may consider to what degree politicians who use such a device are
to blame for it, and to what degree we should blame ourselves for letting it work
on our minds without giving it proper attention.
In this analysis, concepts and approaches drawn from linguistic pragmatics are
adduced to provide a more explicit conceptual understanding of the mechanisms
involved; on the other hand, the understanding and assessment of precisely how
these mechanism function and are used (or exploited) in actual political rhetoric
in a specific historical context is a task for rhetorical criticism. The two disciplines
may thus mutually aid and supplement each other.
2.  Conversational implicature
First, the mechanism that H. P. Grice (1975) has called conversational implicature.
An implicature of an utterance is the hearers’ understanding of something that
is not said, but which the hearers believe the speaker means them to understand.
Grice thinks implicatures arise because of what he calls the ‘Cooperative Prin-
ciple’ underlying all normal conversations. It states: “Make your conversational
contribution such as is required, at the stage at which it occurs, by the accepted
purpose or direction of the talk exchange in which you are engaged” (Grice 1989:
26). Speakers (and writers) are normally expected to adhere to this principle, and
hearers’ (and readers’) implicit awareness of this may cause them to assume, often
inadvertently, that certain ideas are implicated as part of the speaker’s intended
meaning − because if they were not, the speaker would be perceived as violating
the Cooperative Principle.
From this principle Grice infers a set of ‘conversational maxims’ (Grice 1989:
26–27). At issue in the present context is, primarily, the second ‘maxim of Quan-
tity,’ which says: “Do not make your contribution more informative than is re-
quired.” Because our default expectation is that speakers will obey this rule, we
tend, in the default case, to automatically believe that all the information they
Christian Kock
278
put into their utterance and all the choices it reflects have meanings that they
intend us to grasp.
There is also the ‘maxim of Relation,’ which says, simply: “Be relevant.” This
makes us automatically expect that speakers intend everything in their utterances
to be relevant; for example, conjoined sentences should be relevant to each other
somehow, that is, have some semantic coherence. This will be in evidence in some
of the examples discussed below.
The first example comes from Bush’s “State of the Union” speech shortly before
the invasion of Iraq.1
(1)	
Before September the 11th
, many in the world believed that Saddam Hussein could
be contained.
Example (1) has the implicature that those who believed, before 9/11, that Saddam
could be contained, stopped believing it that day − otherwise it would be pointless
to say that they believed it before 9/11, so (1) would be “more informative than
required.” But why did they stop believing it after that day? Bush does not state
the reason explicitly. But surely the minds of many hearers would automatically
have set to work on it. If 9/11 changed people’s view of Saddam, then the most
obvious reason would be that Saddam was involved in 9/11. There may be other
reasons, as we shall see, but none as obvious.
Now consider the next sentence in the speech:
(2)	
But chemical agents, lethal viruses and shadowy terrorist networks are not easily
contained.
Here, new implicatures may arise. The preferred one will probably be that Saddam
has these agents and viruses and supports these networks; otherwise (2) also would
be “more informative than required.”
If, then, (1) invites an implicature that Saddam was indeed involved in 9/11,
then (2) coheres with that idea since the phrase shadowy terrorist networks could
now be heard as referring to the same terrorist network(s) that perpetrated the
9/11 attacks. However, the chemical agents and viruses cannot connect with this
idea, since nothing of those kinds was involved in the attacks. The two sentences
together, including their implicatures, may then be heard as implicating that
Saddam was involved in 9/11 through his connection with terrorist networks, and
that he also has chemical and biological weapons that he may lend to a new attack.
1	 Held in Congress on January 28, 2003. All quotations from the documents discussed
have been taken from the site http://georgewbush-whitehouse.archives.gov/infocus/
iraq/archive.html.
Inception: How the unsaid may become public knowledge 279
However, Bush’s official reason why 9/11 should make Americans change their
view of Saddam only contained the second idea: that Saddam might equip a new
terrorist attack, not that he was involved in the first one. Consider this passage
from a press release:
(3)	We felt secure here in the country. There’s no way we could have possibly envisioned
that the battlefield would change. And it has. And that’s why we’ve got to deal with all
the threats. That’s why Americans must understand that when a tyrant like Saddam
Hussein possesses weapons of mass destruction (…).2
In other words, we now know that terrorists can attack the mainland, and all ras-
cally dictators like Saddam who could equip them with WMD’s should therefore
be seen as threats that we must deal with.
But surely this reason for connecting Saddam and 9/11 is less plausible than
the simple idea that he was involved in 9/11. First, the need to deal with all threats
from rascally dictators who might act like this does not explain why Saddam in
particular is such an urgent concern, or why Saddam is singled out for mention
in (1) there rather than all rascally dictators. Secondly, as for terrorists bringing
WMD’s to America, nothing really seems to have changed. For them to bring
nuclear weapons is probably out of the question, and always has been; as for
chemical and biological WMD’s, these can be so small that it has always been
possible to bring them into the US, so here too there is nothing new. Moreover,
terrorists can probably get these things elsewhere if Saddam is deposed. So Bush’s
reasoning as to why 9/11 suddenly reveals the necessity of deposing Saddam is
much more complex than the idea that Saddam was involved in 9/11, and also
rather implausible. Thus the most natural implicature in (1) and (2) is still that
Saddam was involved in 9/11.
On January 31, 2003, Bush received British Prime Minister Blair, and in a joint
press conference a journalist asked them: “Do you believe that there is a link
between Saddam Hussein, a direct link, and the men who attacked on September
the 11th
?” Bush replied:
(4)	 I can’t make that claim.
And he never did.3
Yet, when the invasion of Iraq was begun in March 2003, and
for some time after, most Americans had come to believe that there was such
2	 “Bush, Prime Minister Blair Discuss Keeping the Peace,” September 7, 2002.
3	 As late as 2009, former Vice President Dick Cheney also denied the Saddam-9/11 link,
see “Cheney: No link between Saddam Hussein, 9/11,” http://edition.cnn.com/2009/
POLITICS/06/01/cheney.speech/.
Christian Kock
280
a link. I am arguing that several public utterances by Bush and his staff in the
months before the invasion were apt to suggest or sustain the idea in hearers’
minds that Bush believed in this link. Is this denial such an utterance?
Interestingly, Bush’s denial of the claim about the direct link between Saddam
and 9/11 is worded in a peculiar way. The default wording of a denial when asked
whether one believes something that one in fact does not believe would be some-
thing like No, I don’t. The linguist and social anthropologist Levinson (2000) pro-
poses a heuristic for what he calls ‘Marked’ formulations, based on Grice’s maxim
of Quantity (i.e., that one should not be more informative than required): “What’s
said in an abnormal way, isn’t normal; or Marked message indicates marked situa-
tion” (Levinson 2000: 33). Hearers’ minds, using this heuristic, may automatically
proceed to interpret Bush’s “abnormally” worded denial as implicating that even
though he cannot make the claim, he would still like to, perhaps because he be-
lieves it to be true but just does not (yet) have the evidence that would allow him
to do make it (thus obeying Grice’s second ‘maxim of Quality’: “Do not say that
for which you lack evidence”). The rhetorician Jeanne Fahnestock (2011a: 36), in
a paper on Perelman and Olbrechts-Tyteca’s view of style as argument, makes a
similar observation about “the marked term being the less expected choice that
can draw attention to itself and initiate a Gricean implicature to detect intentions
behind its use.” On that principle, some hearers might reason that Bush intended
them to understand that he holds the claim to be true.
Concluding on the examples considered so far, Bush bears a responsibility for
speaking in ways that are apt to mislead hearers as to his intended meaning − and
understanding a speaker’s intended meaning is, according to another seminal
insight by Grice (1957, 1969), the criterion for understanding what someone’s
utterance means. Bush probably made a number of Americans take him to mean
something that he neither asserted nor gave reasons for. And the people that were
thus duped are only partly to be blamed for it.
3.  Fuzzy reference
Our second suggestive mechanism is ‘fuzzy reference.’ Certain phrases in Bush’s
speeches may be heard as having either a relatively vague reference, or a more
specific one that suggests a connection between Saddam and 9/11; both interpre-
tations are possible and natural. On the vague interpretation, Bush’s sentences do
not violate any maxims of conversation and do not become pointless. Thus, hear-
ers in whose minds the more specific interpretation pops up thus have themselves
to blame in a higher degree than in the examples we have seen so far.
Inception: How the unsaid may become public knowledge 281
In a long speech on “The Iraqi Threat” that must be dealt with we get this
passage:
(5)	
We’ve experienced the horror of September the 11th
. We have seen that those who
hate America are willing to crash airplanes into buildings full of innocent people.
Our enemies would be no less willing, in fact, they would be eager, to use biological
or chemical, or a nuclear weapon.4
Whom do the phrases those who hate America and Our enemies refer to? Here,
contextual information must help the hearer work that out. Surely Saddam must
belong to at least one of these sets, or be connected with it, since the passage is part
of a speech in which “President Bush Outlines Iraqi Threat.” Are the referents of
these two phrases the same sets of people? If we expect a ‘rich’ coherence between
sentences we might take Bush to mean just that. Saddam is clearly cast as America’s
central enemy in this speech, and it is also natural to accept that he is among those
who hate America (although in the eighties, during the Iran-Iraq war, Saddam was
a friend of the U.S. and was visited by U.S. officials like later Defense Secretary
Rumsfeld); but if he is among those who hate America, then he is also among those
we know are willing to crash airplanes. We have seen them do so, so the nominal
phrase must include the perpetrators of the 9/11 terrorist acts. In other words,
Saddam must somehow be connected with this lot. That is a line of automatic
reasoning that may easily be triggered by this passage.
Later in the speech we have this:
(6)	
The attacks of September the 11th
showed our country that vast oceans no longer
protect us from danger. Before that tragic date, we had only hints of al Qaeda’s plans
and designs. Today in Iraq, we see a threat whose outlines are far more clearly de-
fined, and whose consequences could be far more deadly. Saddam Hussein’s actions
have put us on notice, and there is no refuge from our responsibilities.
Again, an impulse to hear a ‘rich’ connection between sentences might make
hearer assume that what connects the terrorists referred to in the first two sen-
tences of (6) and the agents named in the last two sentences (Iraq and Saddam)
is not only that they threaten Americans, but also that there is a personal overlap
between them. This understanding may be strengthened by the phrase Saddam
Hussein’s actions, since it is plausible, in the context, to hear this phrase as refer-
ring to Saddam’s supposed part in 9/11.
4	 “President Bush Outlines Iraqi Threat,” October 7, 2002.
Christian Kock
282
The last two examples demonstrate that definite nominal phrases are potent
devices for suggestion. In the following passage, too, a definite nominal phrase
may put a hearer’s mind to work to identify a specific referent:
(7)	
… the best way to secure the homeland is to chase the killers down, one at a time,
and bring them to justice. (Applause.) And that’s what we’re going to do.5
The date is December 2002; Bush and his staff are campaigning for an invasion
of Iraq. That makes it natural for hearers to assume that the proposed invasion is
the same as the plan to chase the killers down, since that is what we’re going to do.
But then Saddam and Iraq become in some sense co-referential with the definite
noun phrase the killers. The definite article, as used here, normally requires that
the killers are already known to hearers as killers. Where would hearers have that
knowledge from? An obvious answer is: from 9/11.
Later we get this:
(8)	 (…) out of the evil done to this country, is going to come incredible good (…)
The evil done to this country surely refers to 9/11; the good probably refers to the
imagined results of a war against Saddam. The causal claim that this good comes
out of that evil makes much more sense to hearers if they assume that the phrase
about evil also refers to something Saddam was involved in − in this case, 9/11.
On February 13, Bush said this:
(9)	
The terrorists brought this war to us − and now we’re taking it back to them.
(Applause.)6
Here, the terrorists and them are surely coreferential; them is anaphoric, as
Halliday and Hasan (1976) would say. Since them, uttered at this point in time,
clearly means Saddam and his regime, whom the U.S. is preparing to attack, it also
seems natural to hear the phrase about the terrorists as referring to, or including,
Saddam − unless both the terrorists and them are taken to refer very broadly to,
say, all terrorists in the world.
In all these examples of fuzzy reference, and many similar ones, we find am-
biguous nominal phrases which may or may not be taken to identify Saddam as
involved in 9/11; another term for the same phenomenon might be ‘semantical
underdeterminacy’ (Atlas 2000). Even when these phrases are interpreted in the
vague sense they do not flout any conversational maxims; so hearers who hear a
5	 “Remarks by the President in Terrell for Senate and Louisiana Republican Party Lunch-
eon,” December 3, 2002.
6	 “President Salutes Sailors at Naval Station Mayport in Jacksonville,” February 13, 2003.
Inception: How the unsaid may become public knowledge 283
more specific reference to Saddam should realize that they are letting themselves
be duped.
4.  Suggestive sentence collocation
Fahnestock (2011) devotes the fourth section of her monograph on Rhetorical
Style to ‘passage construction.’ This term comprises concepts such as coherence
and cohesion (Halliday and Hasan 1976), ‘given/new,’ and ‘topic/comment.’ As a
motto for the section, she quotes 18th
‑century rhetorician George Campbell’s clas-
sic work The Philosophy of Rhetoric (1776) as saying that “as there should always
be a natural connexion in the sentiments of a discourse, there should generally
be corresponding to this, an artificial connexion in the signs. Without such a
connexion the whole will appear a sort of patchwork and not a uniform piece”
(from the chapter on “Connectives Employed in Combining the Sentences in a
Discourse”; Fahnestock 2011: 345).
This is a clear anticipation of Grice’s thinking about implicatures − the point
being that if hearers (or readers) do not perceive an “artificial connexion,” i.e., ex-
plicit “connectives” (coherence-signaling devices) in a text, then it will be natural
for them to try to construct a “natural connexion in the sentiments” (i.e., in the
semantic meaning) of the discourse because if such connection is absent, the text
will appear a “patchwork and not a uniform piece.”
This is in fact an apt description of the third type I will discuss of suggestive
mechanisms in Bush’s rhetoric on Iraq. Here, where we have to do with ‘passage
construction,’ i.e., with collocations of sentences, the hearer bears even more re-
sponsibility for hearing what is not said than in the first two types. It is a default
expectation, as both Campbell, Grice and Fahnestock are aware, that collocated
sentences in well-written texts cohere semantically; but just how much coherence
across sentences and what specific semantic ties the speaker has intended is partly
guesswork on the hearer’s part. Consider these sentences:
(10)	The entire world has witnessed Iraq’s eleven-year history of defiance, deception and
bad faith.
We also must never forget the most vivid events of recent history. On September the
11th
, 2001, America felt its vulnerability − even to threats that gather on the other side
of the earth.7
It is a clear possibility to hear all three sentences as describing the actions of
the same agent, namely Saddam’s Iraq; on the other hand, the passage does not
7	 “President Bush Outlines Iraqi Threat”.
Christian Kock
284
violate any conversational maxims when not heard like this. In the same speech,
we get this:
(11)	We’ve learned that Iraq has trained al Qaeda members in bomb-making and poisons
and deadly gases. And we know that after September the 11th
, Saddam Hussein’s
regime gleefully celebrated the terrorist attacks on America.
Here two sentences are not just collocated but conjoined with And. That conjunc-
tion is rich in potential meanings. One might say, for example, that Grice’s maxim
of Relevance prompts us to hear conjoined sentences as maximally relevant to
each other, and/or jointly relevant to some encompassing purpose or direction.
But a hearer’s mind is likely to wonder: Relevant in what way, for what purpose,
in what direction?
Levinson (2000: 122) states that “when events are conjoined, they tend to be
read as temporally successive and, if at all plausible, as causally connected.” In
fact, a temporal reading of And is clearly possible; moreover, one may read both
sentences as relevant support for an unsaid conclusion to the effect, for example,
that Saddam is a villain. But a causal reading is also inviting: Iraq has been training
terrorists; the 9/11 terrorists were among them, and that caused Saddam’s regime
to celebrate their act − this is how such an interpretation might go. On the other
hand, the passage is still meaningful when not heard like this.
George W. Bush’s speeches before the Iraq invasion contain many passages
where similar phenomena are in evidence. Sentences referring to 9/11 repeatedly
rub shoulders with sentences referring to Saddam. Those who heard these state-
ments as implicating that Saddam was involved in 9/11 bamboozled themselves;
but Bush and his speechwriters gave them ample opportunities to do so.
5. Conclusions
In 2007, a group of communication scholars (John et al. 2007) issued a call that
has not yet, I believe, been adequately answered:
Research that examines with analytical precision the specific mechanisms of Implication
of September 11, al Qaeda, and Saddam used by Bush in his public communications, as
well as how these implications were buttressed by public claims of other administration
members, is an important task for future scholarship. (John et al. 2007: 212)
More specifically, John et al. (2007: 207) said: “Using threat rhetoric, Bush over
time adroitly associated terrorists such as al Qaeda, which evoked the horrors of
September 11, with Saddam and Iraq, without necessarily connecting the two
directly.” Also they pointed out:
Inception: How the unsaid may become public knowledge 285
In 2006, two national polls showed that more than 40 Percent of American adults still
believed Saddam was involved in September 11. The president and his administration
denied ever making any such claim, and nowhere in these texts did Bush directly say
Saddam supported either the September 11 attacks or al Qaeda. However, our find-
ings confirm the view expressed by growing numbers of critics that the impression was
conveyed, even implied, by the rhetoric of Bush and his administration. The result was
a political advantage for the administration and Republicans, but the cost was a misin-
formed public and a political discourse that pushed − largely unchecked by those in the
mainstream − toward war with Iraq. (John et al. 2007: 212)
What is said here clearly motivates studies like the present one. Many have felt
that the Bush administration’s public communications somehow conveyed the as-
sumption that Saddam was involved in 9/11, although he never made that direct
claim (declaring that he could not); but the exact mechanisms by which they did
have remained less illuminated.
Steuter and Wills (2008) report that Frank Luntz, a communication consult-
ant for the Bush administration, wrote a memo in June 2004, advising Bush to
justify the War in Iraq indirectly, rather than directly, avoiding arguments about
preemption and relying instead on references to 9/11. The memo was titled Com-
municating the Principles of Prevention & Protection in the War on Terror and
offered advice on what language to use in referring to the war in Iraq:
His advice was to connect the war on terror to the war in Iraq by ensuring that “no speech
about homeland security or Iraq should begin without a reference to 9/11.” Luntz’s recom-
mended phrases such as “It is better to fight the War on Terror on the streets of Baghdad
than on the streets of New York or Washington” and “9/11 changed everything,” became
staples of Republican rhetoric. (Steuter and Wills 2008: 14)
The examples in this paper provide good reasons why citizens in a democracy
should learn about the automatic (or if you prefer, ‘subliminal’) impacts of political
discourse on audiences’ minds. There are several rhetorical devices that depend
on automatic cognitive mechanisms in audiences. Practicing rhetors (such as
Presidents and speechwriters) use them routinely and skillfully; rhetorical critics
may notice them and point them out, and they should. Concepts and insights
inspired by work in other disciplines, such as linguistic pragmatics, may help them
do so more explicitly and with more nuance and a better basis for pronouncing
critique and caution. The devices studied above are apt to create phony public
‘knowledge’ in our minds, or as rhetoricians might say, dubious doxai − without
our conscious knowledge.
Christian Kock
286
References
Atlas, J. D. 2000. Logic, Meaning, and Conversation: Semantical Underdetermi-
nacy, Implicature, and the Semantics/Pragmatics Interface. New York: Oxford
University Press.
Fahnestock, J. 2011a “‘No Neutral Choices’: The Art of Style in The New Rhetoric.”
In Gage, J. T. (ed.) The Promise of Reason: Studies in The New Rhetoric. Carbon-
dale: Southern Illinois University Press, 29–47.
Fahnestock, J. 2011b. Rhetorical Style: The Uses of Language in Persuasion. New
York: Oxford University Press.
Grice, H. P. 1957. “Meaning.” The Philosophical Review 66 (3), 377–388.
Grice, H. P. 1969. “Utterer’s Meaning and Intention.” The Philosophical Review
78 (2), 147–177.
Grice, H. P. 1975. “Logic and Conversation.” In Cole, P. and Morgan, J. L. (eds.):
Syntax and Semantics. New York: Academic Press, 41–58. [Reprinted in Studies
in the Way of Words. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press 1989, 22–40].
Halliday, M. A. K.; Hasan, R. 1976. Cohesion in English. London: Longman.
John, S. L.; Domke, D.; Coe, K.; Graham, E. S. 2007. “Going Public, Crisis after
Crisis: The Bush Administration and the Press from September 11 to Saddam.”
Rhetoric & Public Address (10), 195–219.
Levinson, S. C. 2000. Presumptive Meanings: The Theory of Generalized Conversa-
tional Implicature. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Sigrell, A. 1995. Att övertyga mellan raderna. Åstorp: Retorikförlaget.
Steuter, E.; Wills, D. 2008. At War with Metaphor: Media, Propaganda, and Racism
in the War on Terror. Lanham, MD: Lexington Books.
Van Dijk, T. A. 2005. “War Rhetoric of a Little Ally: Political Implicatures and
Aznar’s Legitimitization of the War in Iraq.” Journal of Language and Politics
4 (1), 65–91.
Contributors
Paul Danler is professor of Romance linguistics at the department of Romance
philology at the University of Innsbruck (Austria). He has also a degree in English/
US-American literature and in political science. His main fields of research are
cognitive linguistics, linguistic discourse analysis, rhetoric and argumentation.
For more information see: http://www.uibk.ac.at/romanistik/personal/danler/
Maria Freddi is Associate Professor of English Language and Linguistics at the
University of Pavia, Italy, where she teaches courses in Writing for Engineer-
ing, Reading Skills in the Humanities, English grammar, and Corpus Linguistics.
Her research has focused on scientific and academic discourse drawing from
grammar, rhetoric, genre analysis and corpus linguistics (see the 2013 co-edited
special issue of the European Journal of English Studies on the rhetoric of science,
and the contribution on EAP syllabus design, Cambridge Scholars Publishing,
2015). Recently she has held a visiting fellowship at the University of Cambridge,
researching discourse and the divide between the sciences and the humanities.
Alina Ganea (Dunărea de Jos University of Galaţi, Romania) is Professor of
French linguistics in the French Department of the Faculty of Letters. Her main
research interest is discourse analysis, with special focus on the investigation of
rhetorical and argumentative strategies in discourse. Her publications include re-
search on the construction of rhetorical ethos and the use of emotional appeals in
discourse. Her analyses are mainly conducted on promotional, political and scien-
tific discourse, as well as on press discourse. More information at: www.lit.ugal.ro.
E-mail address: alina.ganea@ugal.ro
Christian Kock is Professor of Rhetoric at the University of Copenhagen. With
a background in literary studies, he has published extensively on argumentation
theory, political debate, credibility, political journalism, the history of rhetoric,
literary aesthetics and reception theory, versification, musical aesthetics, and writ-
ing pedagogy. With Lisa Villadsen, he has advanced the notion of ‘rhetorical
citizenship’ in two edited volumes: Rhetorical Citizenship and Public Delibera-
tion (University Park, PA: Penn State University Press, 2012), and Contemporary
Rhetorical Citizenship (Leiden: Leiden University Press, 2014), as well as in other
publications. His additional publications in English include numerous articles in
journals and collected volumes and The Theory of Presupposition Failure (with
288 Contributors
Peter Harder, Copenhagen: Travaux du Cercle Linguistique de Copenhague,
1976).
Grzegorz Kowalski is Assistant Professor at the Institute of Applied Linguistics,
University of Warsaw. His major areas of research are academic and scientific
discourse, discourse analysis, corpus linguistics, cognitive metaphor and political
discourse. His recent publications include Claim-making and Claim-challenging in
English and Polish Linguistic Discourses (2015, published at Peter Lang), Academic
(Inter)genres: between Texts, Contexts and Identities (2015, co-edited with Anna
Duszak; published at Peter Lang) and Tekst naukowy i jego przekład (2015, co-
edited with Anna Duszak and Anna Jopek-Bosiacka, published at Universitas).
E-mail: g.kowalski@uw.edu.pl
Katarzyna Molek-Kozakowska, PhD, is Assistant Professor at the Institute of
English, Opole University, Poland. Trained as a linguist, she specializes in dis-
course analysis and media studies. She has published articles and chapters on
various aspects of mass-mediated political discourse, rhetorical and stylistic prop-
erties of journalistic discourse, methodology of critical discourse analysis and
critical media literacy. She co-edited a two-volume book Exploring Space: Spatial
Notions in Cultural, Literary and Language Studies (2010, CSP), and authored the
monograph Discursive Exponents of the Ideology of Counterculture (2011, Opole
University). She co-edits the international open access journal “Res Rhetorica”.
E-mail: molekk@uni.opole.pl
Urszula Okulska, Ph.D. is affiliated with Institute of Applied Linguisitics, Uni-
versity of Warsaw, where she holds Chair of the Department of Discourse Studies.
Her research interests include discourse analysis, philosophy of dialogue, social
and intercultural dialogue, discourse ethics, discourse of conflict and reconcili-
ation, as well as text linguistics, sociolinguistics (contemporary and historical)
and linguistic pragmatics. She has published the monograph Gender and the
Formation of Modern Standard English (Peter Lang 2006), and co-edited several
collected volumes. They involve, inter alia, the following ones: Perspectives in
Politics and Discourse (with Piotr Cap, John Benjamins 2010), Language, Culture
and the Dynamics of Age (with Anna Duszak, Mouton de Gruyter 2011) and
Analyzing Genres in Political Communication (with Piotr Cap, John Benjamins
2013). The topics of her publications are additionally related to synchronic and
diachronic aspects of language change, development of English specialized genres,
professional/institutional communication, speech/discourse communities and
Contributors 289
the applicability of language corpora to sociolinguistic, discourse-pragmatic, and
ethnolinguistic research. E-mail: u.okulska@uw.edu.pl
Joanna Partyka, Ph.D. is Associate Professor in Renaissance and Baroque Lit-
erature at the Institute of Literary Research (Polish Academy of Sciences); she
is an anthropologist and historian of literature. She is interested in rhetoric in
the context of the early modern European literature and culture. In her research
she explores para-literary texts, such as penitential books, itineraries, encyclope-
dias, moral and pedagogical treatises, letters, household books, diaries, etc. She
is member of the Rhetoric Society of Poland and Head of Pro Rhetorica, an In-
terdisciplinary Center for Applied Rhetoric at the Institute of Literary Research
(Polish Academy of Sciences).
Christian Plantin formerly a Research Director at the French National Centre for
Scientific Research (Centre national de la recherche scientifique, CNRS, section 34 –
Language sciences), is now Professor Emeritus at Lyon 2 University. He is member
of the Research Unit ICAR Interactions, Corpus, Apprentissages, Représentations
(Interactions, Corpora, Learning, Representations http://icar.univ-lyon2.fr). His
fields of research are argumentation in language, discourse and interaction, as well
as the linguistic expression/communication of emotions. His recent publications
include: “Emotion and Affect” (2015), in Karen Tracy (ed.) International Encyclo-
pedia of Language and Social Interaction, Wiley: Chichester, and the Dictionnaire
de l’argumentation – Une introduction conceptuelle aux études d’argumentation
[Dictionnary of Argumentation – A Concept-Based Introduction to Argumen-
tation Studies], 2016, ENS Éditions: Lyon. More information and texts available
online: http://icar.univ-lyon2.fr/Membres/cplantin/Index.htm
Izabela Wagner is Associate Professor at the Faculty of Philosophy and Sociol-
ogy (Center for Sociology of Work and Organization), University of Warsaw.
Her work focuses on the international mobility of life scientists. In 2010–2011
she was a visiting scholar in the Department of the History of Science at Harvard
University, and in 2016 at The New School for Social Research. In 2012 she was
visiting professor at Fudan University in Shanghai (China), and in 2015 at Cagli-
ari University (Italy). Her recent publications include: Producing Excellence. The
Making of Virtuosos (2015, Rutgers University Press). More information and texts
available online: http://www.izabelawagner.com
Maria Załęska is Associate Professor at the Italian Language Department, Uni-
versity of Warsaw, where she teaches courses in Rhetoric, Argumentation and
290 Contributors
Pragmatics, Methodology of Linguistic Research and Methodology of Italian
Language Teaching. Her research interests concern ways of knowledge trans-
mission, drawing from rhetoric, argumentation, linguistics and genre analysis.
Currently she serves as President of the Rhetoric Society of Poland, where she
is Editor-in-chief of the international open access journal “Res Rhetorica.” Her
recent publications include Retorica della linguistica. Scienza, struttura, scrittura
[Rhetoric of Linguistics. Science, Structure, Writing Literacy] (2014, Peter Lang),
Retoryka w komunikacji specjalistycznej [Rhetoric in Specialized Communication]
(ed. 2015, PTR), and Retoryka – wiedza – krytyka [Rhetoric – Knowledge – Criti-
cism] (ed. 2016, PTR). More information available at: http://italianistyka.uw.edu.
pl/pracownicy/maria_zaleska/. E-mail: maria.m.zaleska@gmail.com
Studies in Language, Culture and Society 9
9
Studies in Language, Culture and Society 9
Rhetoric, Discourse
and Knowledge
Maria Załe
˛ska / Urszula Okulska (eds.)
Rhetoric, Discourse and Knowledge
Maria Załe
˛ska / Urszula Okulska (eds.)
Maria
Załe
˛
ska / Urszula
Okulska
(eds.)
Rhetoric,
Discourse
and
Knowledge
The authors of this volume explore rhe-
torical and discursive strategies used to
negotiate and establish legitimate knowl-
edge and its disciplinary boundaries, to
make scientific knowledge interesting
outside academic settings as well, and to
manage (c)overt knowledge in different
social and political contexts.The volume
focuses on the cultural concept of knowl-
edge society, examining diverse linguistic
means of knowledge transmission from
the perspective of the complex interplay
between knowledge and persuasion.The
contributors discuss both sociological
and philosophical issues, as well as textual
processes in different genres that aim to
communicate knowledge.
The Editors
Maria Załe
˛ska (University ofWarsaw)
specializes in research on knowledge
transmission, drawing from the fields of
rhetoric, linguistics and genre analysis.
Urszula Okulska (University ofWarsaw)
specializes in studies of intercultural
dialogue from the perspective of discourse
analysis and text linguistics.
SLCS 09 266816_Zaleska_AM_A5HC PLE.indd 1 04.10.16 KW 40 16:44
