Investigating Second Language Attrition 17
their global ability (see Chapter 4, this volume),their successful performance in
these activities is likely to give them, their teachers, and their parents a false
impression that the children are retaining English quite well. This underestima-
tion of the children's L2 attrition may have a negative effect on language main-
tenance as it masks the need to use English communicatively in order to retain
the ability to coordinate linguistic subskills.
Allotting some time in class for students to talk with a competent speaker
one-to-one, even infrequently, is considered by Yoshitomi (Chapter 4, this vol-
ume) to be more beneficial than making them work on "shallow" activities that
do not necessitate the coordination of their language skills. What applied class-
room research needs to investigate, then, is whether or not the increase in main-
tenance programs of class activities that involvereal-time spontaneous interac-
tion aids language retention more than activities involving individual subskills.
In addition to face -to-face interaction, technology offers exciting and inno-
vative options for supporting communication-based language use (Fotos 1996).
Worldwide correspondence networks which include e-mail, chatrooms and com-
puter lined classrooms now provide opportunities for spontaneous communica-
tive practice. This technology has handed returnees around the world an imme-
diate and inexpensive means to communicate with native speakers of languages
learned abroad. Interactive Computer Assisted Learning (CAL) programs can be
designed to utilize the global language skills of students for use in maintenance
programs as well (Otto 1988). Applied research should explore the effects on
retention of such communicative on-line uses.
Training in Language Retention Strategies
During this decade many language teachers have recognized one of the most
valuable gifts they can give their students: help in learning how to learn. Materi-
als for teaching strategies for successful language learning have proliferated
(Brown 1989, 1991; Ellis & Sinclair 1989; Rubin & Thompson 1994), based on
a substantial L2 research literature that examines the characteristics and strate-
gies of the "good language learner" (For reviews see Dickenson 1992;
McDonough 1995; O'Malley & Chamot 1990; Oxford 1990). Similarly, as we
enter a new century, the work of language attrition researchers can provide a
foundation for teaching learners to maintain their language effectively (Berko
Gleason 1988).
While much less is known about language attrition than about language
acquisition, one feature they clearly share is the enormous difference between
individuals in their success in learning or keeping a second language. Some are
able to maintain language skills, while others with similar learning histories and
attrition circumstances lose them. Just as language acquisition researchers dur-
ing the 1980s attempted to understand the characteristics and strategies of "the
good language learner," so now language attrition researchers in the new millen-
nium and beyond have the challenge of finding the characteristics and strategies
of "the good language keeper."
18 Second Language Attrition in Japanese Contexts
Notes
1. The definition assumed here is the one current in the literature on bilingualism as
detailed by the following entry from The Cambridge Encyclopedia of Language
(Crystal 1993:362).
What is a bilingual?The obvious answer is: someone who speaks two lan-
guages. But this answer will not suffice. It does not allow for those who
make irregular use of one or other language, or those who have not used the
language at all for many years (so-called "dormant" bilinguals).Nor does it
allow for the many people who have developed a considerable skill in com-
prehending a foreign language, but who do not speak it; or those who have
learned to read in another language, but who cannot speak or write it. ...
And above all, this definition says nothing about the level of proficiency
that has to be attained before speakers can legitimately claim to be bilin-
gual.
The notion of proficiency raises some very complex issues. Again, the
"obvious" answer is to say that people are bilingual when they achieve
native-like fluency in each language. But this criterion is far too strong.
People who have "perfect" fluency in two languages do exist, but they are
the exception, not the rule. The vast majority of bilingualsdo not have an
equal command of their two languages: one language is more fluent than
the other, interferes with the other, imposes its accent on the other, or sim-
ply is the preferred language in certain situations.. . .
Scholars now tend to think of bilingual ability as a continuum:bilingual
people will find themselves at different points on this continuum, with a
minority approachingthe theoretical ideal of perfect, balanced control of
both languages, but most being some way from it, and some having very
limited ability indeed.
2. Although Gardner stood by his statistics that support his socioeducational model, in
the face of academic criticism (Au 1988), he admitted that "association" is the more
accurate description of the relationships between attitudes, motivation, and language
proficiency, rather than "causality" (Gardner 1988).
PART I
The Loss of English as a Second
Language by Japanese Children
This page intentionally left blank
Japanese Returnees'
Changes in Verb Usage over Time
Anita Reetz-Kurashige
This study tracked the English-speaking ability of 18 school-age Japanese
returnees for a period of 12-18 months. The data included interviews, free talk-
ing, and storytelling. We measured the changes in the subjects' retention of ability
to tell or to retell stories and specifically examined children's changes in verb
forms over their first three years back in Japan. The purpose of the research was
to provide pedagogically useful information on attrition, highlighting verb forms.
The Problem and Its Setting
Returnees
Returnees, called kikoku shijo in Japanese, who are the main subject of this
study, need to be defined. Tetsuya Kobayashi of Kyoto University (1983:i) has
described kikoku shijo as
those who have had the experience of being born in Japan and brought up in the
mainstream of Japanese culture. When they reached a certain age, they went over-
seas with their parents. While they were being brought up overseas, they received
some influence from the local culture. After a few years, they returned home and
were brought up in the mainstream Japanese culture once again.
Over 10,000 kikoku shijo have returned to Japan each year since 1988
(Shoowa:63). As Figure 2.1 shows, the 1992 volume of returnees reached
13,219. The number of returnees was steady through the early 1990s, totaling
12,000 to 13,000 between 1992 and 1996. The annual number of returnees is
expected to remain above 10,000 through this century.
21
2
Japanese Returnees' Retention of English-Speaking Skills:
22 The Loss ofEnglish as a Second Language
Figure 2.1
Annual Numbers of Returnees by School Level
Consistently, the school-age returnees tend to be young. Through the 1980s
and early 1990s, slightly over 60% of the returnees were in elementary school,
just under 25% in junior high school, and a relatively small 15% in high school.
While the tendency has been for children to attend high school and university in
Japan, two new trends in education have helped push up the proportion of high
school students going abroad with their parents. First, the Japanese Ministry of
Education (Mombushoo) has advised Japanese high schools to recognize aca-
demic credits earned in high schools abroad. Secondly, an increasing number of
private colleges and universities have introduced a separate kikoku shijo
entrance examination or special admissions considerations for high school grad-
uates who have spent three years of high school overseas with their parents.1
Nevertheless, the preponderance of younger returnees is not expected to change,
given the relatively young age of the adults sent abroad.
English has emerged as the preferred language of instruction for Japanese
children studying abroad. In 1992, over 96% of Japanese children on a pro-
longed stay in North America attended local schools, as opposed to Nihonjin
gakkoo (Japanese schools) administered abroad by the Japanese Ministry of
Education. In Europe, 65% of resident Japanese children attended local schools
(Mombushoo 1993:5). The importance of acquiring English as a second lan-
guage is not lost on the parents of returnees. After Mandarin Chinese, English is
the most widely spoken language in the world, with an estimated 440 million
native speakers.2
English is spoken as a first or second language in at least 45
countries, or one-third of the world. By focusing this study of returnees' L2 on
English, we address the most widely acquired L2.
Japanese Returnees' Retention of English-Speaking Skills 23
Problem of Returnees L2 Maintenance
Returnees face the problem of trying to keep their English once they return and
are surrounded by and actively engaged in daily communication in Japanese.
Understandably, drastic reduction in L2 input and interaction creates circum-
stances for L2 loss." Input frequency, an environmentalfactor, modifieslinguis-
tic knowledge," according to Yoshitomi (1992:304) because items that are fre-
quent in input are neurologically processed and stored differently from items
that are processed infrequently.
The problem is that the returnees function in a stunningly different lan-
guage environment in Japan, where English-language speakers are scarce and
the opportunity for spontaneous and natural interaction in English is even
scarcer. Parents of bilingual children frequently experience frustration in try-
ing to recreate a social setting that would bring learner and native speakers
together. Although English as a Second Language (ESL) scholars like Kyoko
Yashiro and others are working to introduce foreign language study at the
upper elementary school (koogakuen) level (see Yashiro 1991), the Ministryof
Education has resisted expansion of the curriculum because it runs counter to
the current objective of eliminating Saturday classes to give a full two-day
weekend. In 1993, however, a few target elementary schools throughoutJapan
were selected to begin teaching foreign languages, including English, in the
fifth and sixth grades. Because this is a pilot effort, we expect families to
remain still largely on their own in the task of encouraging their children's L2
abilities. Accordingly, the desire to develop a curriculum for returnees' L2
maintenance has stimulated the need to explore the ESL attrition process of
these children.
Issues in Returnee Attrition Research
No complete model of attrition has been accepted to date. The regression
hypothesis, which postulates L2 loss occurring in the reverse order of L2 acqui-
sition has received qualified support in studies by Cohen (1975), Berman &
Olshtain (1983), Jordens, de Bot & Trapman (1989), Hansen (1980), Hansen-
Strain (1990), Hansen & Shen (1999), Kuhberg (1992), and Olshtain (1986,
1989). Olshtain's (1989) attempt to trace changes in linguistic features of Israeli
returnees' ESL attrition found no clear regression patterns. However, she docu-
mented linguistic features that are prime candidates for attrition and found
extensive evidence of change in verb forms.
The critical threshold notion, that attainment of some level of L2 competence
mitigates against loss, has also been partially supported in studies by de Bot &
Clyne (1989), Weltens (1987), Weltens et al. (1989). Bahrick's (1984a) survey,
Fifty Years of Second Language Attrition, which plotted plateaus of recall and
recognition remains the benchmark study. Specification of threshold levels of
ESL proficiency in listening, speaking, reading, writing, and various syntactic
components has never been completed.
24 The Loss of English as a Second Language
In the past ten years, case studies of returnees' L2 maintenance by Kuhberg
(1992), Olshtain (1989), Tomiyama (see Chapter 3), and Yoshitomi (see Chapter
4), have documented the sequence of loss of at the intraskills level, including
code switching, lexical retrieval, fluency, phonology, morphology, and syntax.
Although based on a limited number of subjects, these studies provide a base of
evidence for generalizing on patterns of returnees' L2 retention.
A major two-volume study of Japanese returnees' ESL retention was pub-
lished in 1989 and 1990: Kikoku shijo no gaikokugo hoji ni kansuru choosa
kenkyu hookokusho (A survey on the foreign language retention of returnees) by
the Kaigai Shijo Kyooiku Shinkoo Zaidan (Japan Overseas Educational Ser-
vices, JOES). The survey reported on differences in returnees' retention and
related these to personal characteristics of age and time elapsed since return. In
one study, Yoshida & Arai (1990) measured listening comprehension in tasks
that included repetition of increasingly complex sentences. The responses were
evaluated for correctness of morphemes and grammatical structure. In the gram-
matical analysis, they found that the youngergroups had higher errors, most fre-
quently omissions and substitution.The youngest children who had been back
the longest (over two years) also had the highest rate of substitution of words
and phrases. Older children who had been back the longest showed the highest
accuracy in repetitions.Yoshida & Arai identified linguistic weaknesses in the
returnees' speech through error analysis and found that inaccurate verb substitu-
tion ranked the highest.
The above studies point to a number of unsolved issues. The regression
hypothesis has proved difficult to assess for lack of documentation on acquisi-
tion patterns (Olshtain 1989). The critical threshold notion has not been quanti-
fied for ESL. Documentation on Japanese returnees' loss of ESL is still fragmen-
tary. The bulk of attritionresearch to date has been building from the bottom up,
documenting retention of specific skills and charting changes over time. This
study continues that effort.
Attrition is admittedly an incremental process, and there is no clear distinc-
tion between acquisitionand attrition.This presents a hidden problem in study
design. Studies that group subjects by the time elapsed since the end of L2
training and the onset of testing, and then test for proficiency and draw conclu-
sions on retention, make the implicit assumption that all subjects learn about
the same amount over the same acquisition period. However, studies of L2
acquisition (Wong Fillmore 1976, 1991) have shown that children of similar
age and length of time in the L2 environment vary considerably in their L2
competence. There is a pedagogic need to distinguish between failure to
acquire and attrition because relearning a second language may take less time
than initial learning (Hansen 1980). Furthermore, there is a need to develop
longitudinal tracking evidence and compare it with evidence from cross-sec-
tional or between groups study designs. Accordingly, in this study I investi-
gated attrition patterns by comparing each subject with his or her own previous
performance. In this way, this study can distinguish between language loss and
failure to ever acquire some forms, and, more important, it can document
actual shifts in language use.
Japanese Returnees' Retention of English-Speaking Skills 25
Purpose and Scope of Study
This study takes a close look at returnees' verb usage, which Olshtain (1986,
1989) and Yoshida & Arai (1990) identified as highly susceptible to change and
error, in order to shed light on several unanswered points. First, we have not yet
answered what changes in language occur over time in Japanese returnees'
speech. Specifically, we want to ascertain if there are any patterns of change in
verb usage. Then, we can examine whether any personal characteristics of the
children relate to their retention patterns, and, if so, what factors predict L2
retention. The following research questions have been framed to assess
returnees' competence over time in using verbs in storytelling.
(1) What common changes and shifts over time occur in returnees' use of verb
forms in ESL narrations? Can any patterns of change over time be identified?
(2) Do the personal characteristics of returnees' age, length of time abroad,
length of time back, and proficiency level at study onset relate to their reten-
tion/attrition in using verbs? If so, what factors relate favorably to (are predic-
tive of) L2 retention?
Method
The investigation through storytelling included two tasks and three subject
groups. Storytelling included a retelling after a tape and an original story told
from a picture book. The three subject groups were 18 returnees, 10 Japanese
children of elementary school age living in Honolulu and attending local
English speaking schools, and 14 native English speakers in the same range.
These three groups were compared in lexical and morphosyntactic assessments.
Then the study assessed the returnees individually at two or three times during
approximately 12-19 months. Narrations were analyzed quantitativelyand qual-
itatively. Measurements included type-token counts and ratios to determine
vocabulary diversity and targetlike usage (TLU) assessments of accuracy in
morphology. Qualitative analysis focused on comparisons between subjects' ini-
tial and final descriptions of the same story pictures.
Subjects
Three groups of elementary school age children comprise the subjects of this
study: returnees whose L2 was measured for change in Japan, a baseline group
of Japanese children whose L2 narration was recorded in Honolulu, and a native
English-speaking group recorded in Honolulu. Table 2.1 (see Appendix) con-
tains the personal data on age, length of residence, and length of schooling. The
average age of the children was nine years old. Returnees had lived abroad for
an average of 2.4 years, compared with the baselines' 3.5 yrs.3
The native
English speakers had lived in the United States continuously and attended
school there. The following section contains additional information of each
group.
26 The Loss of English as a Second Language
Returnees
Tables 2.1 and 2.2 (in the Appendix) sh the personal and test characteristics
of the returnees. At study onset, the eighteen returnees had lived from 1-5 years
abroad and had attended school in English from 1-4 years, 2.2 years being the
average (Table 2.1). In Table 2.2, returnees are grouped by time elapsed between
return and study onset (incubation period). As shown, twelve children were back
less than three months at study onset, and six children had been back from 8-22
months. I deliberately included subjects who had been back over a year in order
to gather evidence on plateaus or thresholds of retention. Table 2.2 shows that
all subjects had an initial and a final assessment, and eleven had an interim one
also. Initial and final assessments varied from 7 months for Subjects 1 and 3, to
18 months for Subject 17. Eleven of the returnees were interviewed three times
and the other seven were interviewed twice.
The returnees took a qualifying literacy test; Table 2.2 also shows those
scores. Subject eligibility required scoring 50th percentile or better on the lan-
guage section of the Stanford Achievement Test, Abbreviated, Primary 1, Form J,
(Psychological Corp., Harcourt, Brace, and Jovanovich, 1988), and a primary
-level (grade 1) reading test. The purpose of a literacy requirement was to avoid
mixing in preliterates whose attrition behavior is known to be different; Berman
& Olshtain (1983) and Hansen-Strain (1990) clearly associated literacy with sta-
bility of knowledge.
Initial arrangement of data in Table 2.2 by incubation period is consistent
with cross-sectional analysis and allows us to chart changes for subjects within
the framework of time lapsed since their return. After the verb analysis, subjects
are ranked by retention levels, and it is in that format that we later examine the
relationship between subjects' retention and their personal characteristics.
Baseline Subjects
The purpose of the baseline group was to obtain examples of levels of compe-
tence reached by children relative to their length of residence and schooling
abroad. We examined their proficiency and L2 learner errors. Through these
baseline data we can identify language variations in vocabulary, morphology,
and syntax that may also occur in the returnees' speech. Their language varia-
tions inform us that some structures have not yet been acquired. The ten
Japanese children, ages eight to eleven, in this group were attending the Rain-
bow School, a Saturday Nihongo gakkoo in Honolulu.
Native Speakers of English
We evaluated the returnees against same-age native English speakers rather than
against a standard norm of (adult) English speakers because research has shown
that linguistic and discourse features change significantly with age. Children's
vocabulary and syntax develop during their first decade as they learn to handle
more detail and narrative complexity. Children's use of verb tense and aspect
(Ellis 1987), pronouns (Clancy 1982), and lexical and syntactic complexity
ow
Japanese Returnees' Retention of English-Speaking Skills 27
(Slobin 1990) develop incrementally.The immature storyteller often switches
apparently randomly from past to present tense and back, whereas the older
child shows a more definite time sense, usually selecting the past tense for narra-
tion (Ellis 1987; Slobin 1990). It would be unfair to assert that a young returnee
lacks stability in verb tense if native English-speaking youngsters lack the same
skill. This subject group consisted of 12 students, ages six to twelve, who were
attending elementary school in Honolulu.
Storytelling
Storytelling was the task selected to measure changes in verb use primarily
because it offers repeatability and comparability. In addition, the particular sto-
ries used in this research have been used in other studies of bilingual children's
L2 attrition. Frog, Where are You? by Mercer Mayer (1969) and A Boy, A Dog,
and A Frog by the same author (1967) are picture books with detailed drawings
and no text. They are companion books that have the same three characters (a
boy, a dog, and a frog) and many development sequences that invite variety in
vocabulary and syntax. Because there is no text, a child must rely on his or her
own recall abilities. The frog stories were used in attrition studies by Berman &
Olshtain (1983), & Olshtain (1986, 1989), and Yoshitomi (1994).
The Book is a set of 19 drawings with no text; but an accompanying audio-
tape in English provides approximately one explanatory sentence per picture.
The tape includes many phrasal verbs, a negative verb, and a passive voice. The
Book was used in Hansen-Strain's (1990) study of English-speaking children
remembering and forgetting Japanese.
Testing Procedures
For the first task, The Book was given each child, who looked at the pictures
while listening to the English tape. Those pictures were put aside and the child
was then given Frog, Where Are You? and told to look at all the pictures and
afterward tell the story in English. Then storytelling and taping began. When the
child finished, he was asked to look again at the pictures for The Book and retell
that story. The nonsequential procedure is meant to diminish short-term recall of
the exact words on the tape.
Before the second taping, I reviewed the returnees' first stories and identified
vocabulary weakness and failure to complete constructions or to describe images.
Some subjects had skipped over details in the more complex pictures. I wanted to
hear if they could formulate a proper sentence based upon a prompt. Through
informal trials, I found that some subjects could integrate a prompt into the narra-
tive, indicating that they knew the semantic and syntactic use of the prompt. Other
subjects simply repeated the prompt and did not integrate it into the narrative, sug-
gesting that the lexical item and/or its use were beyond their knowledge. Subjects
who ignored the prompt totally provided no clear information. To explore further,
an interventionary approach was adopted for subsequent storytellingas follows:
28 The Loss of English as a Second Language
(1) Warm up period to review the two stories with the subject before story-
telling begins. The interviewer invited the subject to ask the names ofanything
before taping began.
(2) During storytelling, if the subject asked for a word, paused more than 10
seconds, or repeated herself several times for want of a word, the interviewer
supplied it.4
(3) If the subject skipped a picture or an explanation, which other children
usually explained, the interviewer probed further, with something like, "What's
happening here?" Samples of the prompting are
(a) The subject below picked up on a prompt:
Returnee: he was going down a steep hill
Interviewer: cliff
Returnee: cliff. And the deer stopped/and the dog fell down the cliff.
(b) Conversely, another subject ignored a prompt:
Returnee: he has worried look.
Interviewer: Yes, he looks worried.
Returnee (later referring to the same frog): *is again worried look.
After the initial storytelling,we faced the problem that subsequent telling of the
same story becomes familiar, so the task may involveless language creation and
more recall of one's previous performance. As a check on this practice effect,
four subjects (7,11,16, and 14) who had been back in Japan for different lengths
of time, from less than a month to 19 months, were asked to tell the companion
story, A Boy, A Dog, and A Frog in the second session (Time 2). There was no
discernible effect that this story change had on these subjects' subsequent (Time
3) narration of Frog, Where Are You?
Data Analysis
All narrations collected through testing were transcribed according to a modified
version of Slobin's (1989) Frog Story Procedures. (See the notes for transcrip-
tion notation). The following measures were obtained from the data.
Measure of Vocabulary Diversity Based on Type-Token Counts
"In mathematical linguistics the total number of words in a text may be referred
to as the number of text tokens and the number of different words as the number
of text types. The ratio of different words in a text to total words in the text is
known as the lexical density or Type-Token Ratio" (Richards, Platt & Weber,
Dictionary of Applied Linguistics 1988:300). Overall lexical density is calculated
by: [different words (types) total words (tokens)]. The analysis is carried one
step further in this study by classifying all types and tokens by part of speech
(verbs, nouns, articles and so forth). This breakdown provides an additional
The numerator is a count of the number of verbs correctly supplied by a subject
in his/her story. It is labeled SOC for supplied in obligatory contexts and it indi-
cates accuracy. The denominator counts the subject's total verbal production,
correct and incorrect, per story. It combines OC, or obligatory contexts, and
SNOC, supplied in non-obligatory contents. OC indicates the number of verbs
that the subject supplied for correct verb usage given the context of the narra-
tion. SNOC indicates the number of verbs the subject supplied in addition to the
number of verbs required for the given context. Consider the sample calculation
of one subject's sentences: The bee chasing the dog. The owl chased the boy,
and the boy fall of from the tree. (Correct forms: The bee was chasing the dog.
The owl chased the boy, and the boy fell off the tree.) Employing the TLU for-
mula for past regular (chased) - 1/1 or 100%; for past irregular (fall instead of
fell) = 0/1 or 0%; for past progressive (chasing) = 0/1 or 0% because the auxil-
iary is missing. The overall TLU = 1/3 or 33%.
In counting correctness (SOC) the general rule is, if the sentence is grammat-
ically correct and the verb forms are correct on the sentence level, the verb is
counted as correct. This rule allows for shifting of verb tense in the narrative and
is consistent with tense shifting among the native speakers of elementary school
age. There are some instances, however, in which, a correct form at the sentence
Japanese Returnees' Retention of English-Speaking Skills 29
qualitative measure of speech production that relates to the grammatical compo-
sition of each narration.
Verb Analysis: Targetlike Usage Measured Over Time
The methodology in the verb analysis followed these steps:
(1) Count verb phrases as one unit and classify the unit by type. Actual types
included present, past regular and past irregular tenses; present and past progres-
sive aspect; negatives; passive voice; infinitives; and past participles.
tried to touch tried - past regular, to touch = other (infinitive)
was broken passive voice, was = past irregular, broken = other (past
participle)
got stuck passive voice, got = past irregular, stuck - other (past
participle)
did not come negative, did = past irregular, come (verb stem)
hear singing hear = present tense, singing = other (present participle)
was able to get up was = past irregular, able = adjective, to get up = other
(infinitive)
(2) Apply the TLU formula as set forth in Pica's (1983) methods of morpheme
quantification :
No. Correctly Supplied Morphemes/Forms in Obligatory Context = SOC
No. Obligatory Contexts + No. Supplied in Nonobligatory Context = OC + SNOC
30 The Loss of English as a Second Language
level has not been accepted as correct: for example, when the narrator has estab-
lished consistency in using the past tense and then abruptly shifts to the present
tense for one or two verbs.
the boy and dog caught the frog .. .
they watched the frog . ..
while boy and dog sleep
the frog slip out
next morning boy and dog saw the frog was not in the jar
In this example, slip is an error because it is incorrect as either the present or
past form. Sleep is arguably correct as a present tense form at the clause level
but incorrect at the narrative level because TLU would normally call for the past
tense form, slept. I counted sleep as incorrect here because past tense had been
established as the narrative form. When this type of shift occurred it was also
footnoted.
The following section summarizes the study results and elaborates on the
findings.
Results
Overview
In the initial comparison of the three groups, type-token counts indicated that the
recent returnees resembled the baseline group in vocabulary diversity. This
implied that discernible loss in productivevocabulary had not set in for young-
sters who had returned within three months.
From the quantitative TLU analysis and from qualitative comparison of each
child's stories over a period of approximately 12-18 months, we found that the
18 subjects demonstrated some common changes and shifts in their language
patterns and specificallytheir use of verbs. These changes could be generalized
best by ranking subjects in terms of TLU accuracy at final assessment. Some
changes and errors appeared to occur sequentially and were characteristic of
particular levels of ESL competence:
1. Shifts in tense and aspect occurred from past to progressive and from past
progressive to present progressive. These changes were made by low-
retention speakers whose stability of language was eroding.
2. Common errors in morphology included dropping the bound -ed mor-
pheme in the past tense, the -s for the third person singular, omitting the
auxiliary in the progressive, or failing to have the auxiliary agree in num-
ber with the subject. Moderate-to low-retention speakers lost bound and
free morphemes.
3. Use of the verb stem was a particularly prevalent feature of attrition for
low-retention speakers. These interlanguagespeakers showed instability
Japanese Returnees' Retention of English-Speaking Skills 31
in tense and morphemes from study onset and increased their reliance on
unanalyzed forms over time.
4. Returnees' use of negatives over time showed few word order errors, some
shifts to simpler forms, and progressively increasing errors in bound and
free morphemes. This suggests an attrition pattern of morpheme loss
occurring before reduction in complexity and reductions in complexity
(which constitute a type of compensatory strategy) occurring before syn-
tactic errors. Simplification often appeared to be an attempt to avert syn-
tactic errors.
5. Most subjects who scored high in TLU accuracy and retention still
showed declines in vocabulary diversity and/or increased redundancy.
Lexical loss appeared be a precursor to morphosyntactic loss.
6. Qualitative comparison of each subject's stories over time documented
shifts in usage that occurred without error: reduced vocabulary, increased
redundancy, "downshift" in verb tense, and selection of simpler forms,
particularly in forming or avoiding negation.
7. Initial proficiency scores were the best predictors of retention. Age and length
of residence emerged as interdependent in that children over eight years old
and with at least two years of school abroad retained over 80%TLU. Chil-
dren who were either under eight years old or had less than two years of
schooling abroad showed 30%-79% retention of TLU. Both conditions of
being over eight years old and having over two years study abroad needed to
be met for over 80%TLU to continuefor more than twelvemonths.
Elaboration of Results
Vocabulary Diversity of Subject Groups
The three subject groups were compared for vocabulary diversity using the first
storytelling of The Book. Table 2.3 in the Appendix shows average type-token
counts overall and by parts of speech for all subjects. As we can see, the tape of
The Book had a type-token ratio of .43 compared with a similar .44 for native
speakers, baselines, and recent returnees. Returnees back the longest had the
lowest, .39. The tape, however, contained the highest absolute vocabulary diver-
sity, with a total of 213 words tokens and 92 different word types. In contrast,
native speakers averaged only 185 tokens and 86 types.
Recent returnees and the baseline group were nearly identical, with a type-
token ratio of .44 (62/142) and .44 (64/145), respectively. The type-token
counts by parts of speech (in bold print in the table) as well are nearly identical
for the baselines and recent returnees. Groups 2 and 3, returnees who had been
back longer, showed lower vocabulary diversity of .41 (62/152) and .39
(52/132), respectively. We recognize the strong similarity of the ratios for each
subject group, that is, the strong overall similarity of the groups in lexical den-
sity. Noteworthy is the almost identical type counts of the baselines and recent
returnees.
32 The Loss of English as a Second Language
This aggregate analysis of The Book is the clearest demonstration we have
that the narrative speech of the recent returnees and baselines who are still living
abroad are virtually indistinguishable on the point of the lexical density by parts
of speech. This evidence suggests that for some recent returnees, productive
vocabulary did not decline immediately upon leaving the English-speaking envi-
ronment. Because their vocabulary corresponds so closely with bilinguals still in
the L2 environment,these limitations indicate failure to acquire rather than lexi-
cal loss following return.
In the following subsections we examine changes over time in targetlike
usage of verbs forms, including negative forms and relate the results again to the
subjects' personal characteristics.
Tracking Targetlike Usage of Verbs
In both tables, the subjects are listed from high to low retention based on
their overall score (SOC no. verbs) at final testing. The overall fraction score
is equivalent to accuracy productivity and, hence, is more meaningful than the
%TLU. Change over time (Change/time) in the tables, compares each subject's
final %TLU with his/her initial %TLU. Interim scores were ignored in this cal-
culation but presented in the tables and included in the discussion.
These tables break down accurate use by tense and aspect (e.g., present, past
regular, irregular; present and past progressive), giving the SOC and %TLU for
each category. They do not show errors explicitly. There are two reasons for this:
the nature of the errors themselves and the nature of the TLU calculation.It was
impossible to determine if an error like he jumping should be classified as past
or present progressive, or an error like hefall, under simple present or simple
past. Additionally,unless the subject supplied at least one (SOC) verb correctly
to generate a numerator, the identifiablemistakes counted in the denominator
(OC SNOC) could not be reflected in %TLU (e.g., 0 5 = no. TLU score).
Thus, Tables 2.4 and 2.5 (see Appendix) focus on changes in accuracy only
since no credit was given for erroneous but still communicatively competent
language.
The tables also include a final column of notes, which itemizes specific char-
acteristics of each subject's narrations. These notes, made during preparation of
TLU tables, were not quantified. I tried, but could not confidently order the
occurrence of errors in a sequential (or a regression) pattern because there were
only two or three assessments per subject. The interviews were exhaustive rather
than frequent. So, notes 1-10 below summarize evidence of the subjects'
strengths and weaknesses, the latter in the form of information on types of
errors. Tables 2.4 and 2.5 (see Appendix) relate the enumerated notes to the sub-
jects (i.e., notes are listed for each returnee whose stories showed evidence of
the characteristic).
1. Used verb stem in place of analyzed verb form
2. Missed third person singular -s
Japanese Returnees' Retention of English-Speaking Skills 33
3. Missed auxiliary in progressive aspect
4. Failed to have progressive auxiliary and subject agree in number
5. Used inappropriate lexical choice; verb overgeneralized in meaning
6. Relied on present tense (50% of total verbs)
7. Shifted from past to present tense
8. Shifted to progressive aspect
9. Relied on past tense (50% of total verbs)
10. Used stable TLU of verbs (80% + accuracy)
Tables 2.4 and 2.5 rank subjects by their overall score (SOC total no. verb) at
final assessment and place subjects into three categories: high retention, moder-
ate retention and low retention. The highest scorers all had 80-100%TLU, the
moderate group measured approximately 50-79%TLU at final assessment, and
the low retention group all had under 50%TLU at final testing. The characteris-
tics of subjects in the three groups will be discussed after we examine the lin-
guistic information in the two tables.
The following three examples from Table 2.4 (Subject 13 in high retention, 2
in moderate retention, and 16 in low retention) illustrate interpretation of the
data. The top scorer, Subject 13, had an overall score of 28/28 initially and
29/29 finally, so no change over time in accuracy. From first to final assess-
ment, Subject 13 never used the present tense. The subject consistently and
accurately relied the past tense and showed decline in SOC for regular past
tense but increase in SOC for irregular past. The notes indicate that Subject
13 relied on the past tense (note 9), and showed stable use of verb forms (note
10). If we look at Subject 2, in the moderate group, we see output increased
but accuracy decreased over time with 21/21 in Time 1 and 17/25 in Time 3,
with a very high 32% loss in TLU over 12 months. Present tense use did not
expand over time. The subject continued to rely on the past tense, but with
less accuracy: past regular score dropped from 100%-40% accuracy and past
irregular from 100%-81%. The notes indicate Subject 2 relied on the past
tense (note 9) and only initially showed stable use of verb forms (note 10).
Next, with Subject 16 in the low retention group, we see a precipitous drop in
overall accuracy from 20/28- 9/26, a 36% decline over 12 months. Except for
66%TLU of past tense initially, the subject scored 50% or less accuracy for
all tenses used. Without positive SOC scores we lack information on errors,
however, the notes on Subject 16 provide details. Subject 16 used verb stems
in place of present and past forms (note 1), missed third person singular -5
(note 2), missed auxiliaries in the progressive (note 3), and finally, failed to
have progressive auxiliary and subject agree in number (note 4). Thus, we can
conclude that differences became progressively marked over time in these
three subjects' abilities to access accurately verb forms to describe the action
in the stories.
In the following section we will take a detailed look at common changes in
verb usage and associate them where relevant, with subjects' rank order in profi-
ciency (i.e., with the three levels of retention).
34 The Loss of English as a Second Language
Patterns of Change in Verb Usage
In response to the first research question (Can any patterns of change over time
be identified?) the study found that certain changes in verb usage were common
in the attrition process. The following paragraphs describe these findings.
(1) Shifts in tense and aspect occurred from simple past to past progressive and
to present progressive. Tables 2.4 and 2.5 indicate that Subjects 18, 11, 1, and 6,
from the high-and moderate-retention groups, made this shift (note 8). Subject 18
was a competent speaker who doubled her use of the present progressive aspect.
Subjects 6, 1, and 11, ranked in descending order, were moderate-level speakers
whose stability in regular and irregular past verb forms eroded. Increased errors in
past verb forms and shift to progressive forms, not always accurately, occurred in
the their Time 2 and Time 3 narrations.The examples below compare the subjects'
descriptions of the same segments of the stories. They show that the more compe-
tent speakers, Subjects 18 and 6, made a tense shift without error, but the less
capable, Subjects 11 and 1, dropped the auxiliaryin the process.
Subject 18 (age 13;9, abroad 1.0 year, high retention,auxiliary correct)7
back < 1 month back 12 months
the boy ran from the owl the boy is trying to get away
and climbed up on a rock the boy climbed up a rock
and he grabbed something and he is holding to a tree
Subject 6 (age 8;7, abroad 2.3 years, moderate-high retention, auxiliary correct)
back > 1 month back 5 months
when the boy went to sleep while the boy and the dog is sleeping
the frog got out of the bottle the frog got out of the jar
they were going to find the the boy and the dog is looking the
frog in the woods frog
Subject 11 (age 10;5, abroad 1.6 years, moderate-low retention, noauxiliary)
back 19 months back 35 months
boy saw (= looked) at the tree hole and he looking in the hole
Subject 1 (age 6;6, abroad 1.6 years, moderate retention, auxiliarydifficult to
distinguish)
back < 1 month back 7 months
he's going to climb up the rock the boy still calling the frog
(2) Common errors in morphology included omitting the auxiliary in progressive
and failing to have the subject and auxiliary agree in number. As shown in Tables
2.4 and 2.5, errors of omission or agreement of the auxiliary in the progressive
Japanese Returnees' Retention of English-Speaking Skills 35
aspect (notes 3 and 4) were made by subjects in the moderate and low retention
groups: in descending order of ranking, Subjects 1, 15, 9, 7, 16, and 5. There
were no discernible differences among these two levels of subjects who made
these two different errors. All these subjects initially showed evidence of omit-
ting the auxiliary in the progressive (evidenced by SOC of 0 for progressive
aspect). Their use of the auxiliary was unstable at study onset, which was within
a month of return for Subjects 16 and 1, and within three months for Subjects 15
and 9. The following comparisons of subjects' initial and subsequent descrip-
tions illustrate increasing error over time.
Subject 15 (age 11 ;6, abroad 2.10 years, moderate retention, past irregular and
progressive auxiliary errors)
back 3 months back 11 months
the boy fell from the tree the boy surprised andfall from the
branch
and bees chasing the dog the bee chasing the dog
Subject 16 (age 11;6, abroad 1.6 years, low retention, auxiliary missing)
back < I month back 19 months
and the bees... [go] went down bees house fell down in ground
bees chasing with dog and bees chasing dog
Subject 1 (age 6;6, abroad 1.6 years, moderate retention, shift in tense, subject
and auxiliary don't agree)
back < 1 month back 7 months
the boy and the dog was looking the boy and the dog is looking the
the frog the frog
(3) Two bound morpheme errors that occurred over time ropping -ed for
the past regular and -sfor the present third person singular. Errors in the past
tense are reflected only in %TLU scores. Subjects with moderate to low reten-
tion (in descending rank order: 6, 2, 10, 11,and 16) showed reduced accuracy in
the regular past. Dropping the -s morpheme for the third person singular was
also a common error for subjects of moderate retention (in descending rank
order with 4, 10, 1, 11, 7, 9, and but we are less sure that this morpheme was
solidly in place at study onset. The examples below show that the -ed was ini-
tially used correctly, whereas the -s morpheme was not always in place initially.
Subject 10 (age 9;11,abroad 1.0year,moderate retention, -ed for past used erroneously)
back 2 months back 14 months
he wanted to get the book he buyed the book
he tried to pay for this book but he didn't have money . . .
were
36 The Loss of English as a Second Language
Subject 11 (age 10;5, abroad 1.6 years, moderate retention,-ed dropped)
back 19 months back 35 months
he dropped the book again
and the man picked up the book
and handed it to Mr. S
in the bus he drop his book
and the nice man pick up his book
he take it for him
Subject 9 (age 9;10, abroad 2.10 years, moderate retention, shift from past to
present and -s omitted)
back 3 months
and he dropped the book
and the nice man picked his book up
and handed it to Mr. Sakamoto
and he noticed that a page of the
book was XXX
back 11 months
and he drops the book again
and the nice man pick it up
and hand [him] it to him
and he [sitting on a chair] sat on a
chair
look the book [the book] XXX
Subject 4 (age 7;10, abroad 2 years, moderate retention, dropped -s morpheme)
back 9 months back 14 months
he drops the book .
he took the book
and he got a bus
he drops that book
he pick up the book
and he go on the bus
(4) Increasing use of the unanalyzed verb stem wa a prevalentfeature of attri-
tion for low-retention speakers. Data in this study point to a single form, the
verb stem, as a basic "chunk" that the least proficient speakers recalled and
relied on. Pienemann et al. (1988) informed us that learners acquire mastery of
the third person -s morpheme rather late in syntactic development. When the -s
is not supplied, the "unanalyzed" simple present (verb stem) is used. As the fol-
lowing examples show, it is impossible to say which analyzed verb form, pre-
sent or past, the subject failed to provide.
Subject 15 (Time 3)
the boy surprised and fall from the tree branch
Subject 9 (Time 3)
'owl stop the chasing/boy climb up the rock
We want to relate these increased errors to personal variables and indicate where
relationships are strongest. Initially,I grouped the subjects by time back in Japan
and arrayed the erroneous use of verb stem in that format. Then I arranged the
subjects by TLU scores and showed verb stem data in that format. By comparing
Japanese Returnees' Retention of English-Speaking Skills 37
these two formats, it was clear that errors were not strongly related to time
elapsed since return, but they were strongly related to subjects' TLU score. Data
in Table 2.6 (see Appendix) show that the number of verb stems that subjects
used erroneously usually increased over time and increased disproportionately
for the less proficient speakers. The implication of this to the threshold notion is
discussed below.
The following examples illustrate limitations in vocabulary and syntax that
constrained the subjects who made verb stem errors.
Subject 15 (age 11;6, abroad 2.10 years, moderate retention, verb stem errors)
back 3 months back 11 months
and the boy fell from the tree the boy surprised and fall from the
tree branch
so he climbed on the wall the boy get up the rocks
and the deer pick him up deer stand up
Subject 7 (age 9;1, abroad 2 years, moderate-low retention, verb stem errors)
back 8 months back 23 months
frog went ou the frog go out
boy looked at (= looked for) the frog boy wake and look at the bin (= jar)
Subject 16 (age 11 ;6, abroad 1.6 years, low retention, verb stem errors)
back < 1 month back 12 months
he found his book that he want... he find book that he want
but he got card, money card but he have a credit card
Reverting to the verb stem in place of simple present or past forms may reflect a
typological feature of Japanese grammar. Japanese verbs have no morphemes to
distinguish person or number. The plain form shuushikei8
is used conversation-
ally by Japanese to convey both present and future tense, specifically to convey
intent, action, or states that will occur from now. So the wide use of shuushikei
combined with infrequent use of subject and object pronouns makes it easy or
natural for Japanese interlanguagespeakers to rely on the verb stem in English.
(5) Negatives showed few word order errors, some shifts to simpler forms and
progressively increasing morpheme errors. Word order errors did not increase
noticeably over time. For negative constructions as well as positive, there was
some "downshifting" from past to present tense by Subjects 17, 10, 15, 7,and 5
(in descending order of competence in Tables 2.4 and 2.5), which indicates that
simplification was an adjustment made by all levels of all speakers. (See also
Tables 2.4 and 2.5, note 7.) Shifts from doesn't + verb to no + noun, called no-
fronting, were made by Subjects 8 and 4, in the high- and moderate-retention
groups, respectively. The most obvious changes were increased errors in bound
38 The Loss of English as a Second Language
morphemes (i.e., -ed on past tense), free morphemes (i.e., agreement of subject
and in auxiliary number), and in lexical choices. (See also Tables 2.4 and 2.5,
notes 3, 4, and 5.)
At the point of one year after their return, the returnees' syntax of negative
sentences was not noticeably affected. At two years after return, only one profi-
cient speaker (Subject 14) showed signs of syntactic decline with word-order
errors. Of the three subjects tested at three years after return, one, the oldest
returnee (Subject 17), once shifted from negative to positive phrasing in mid
sentence as a corrective measure, and the youngest (Subject 5) had an increase
in errors and made the most errors overall. The following examples illustrate
changes in phrasing and increases and decreases in accuracy over time.
Subject 14 (age 11;1,abroad 5.5 years, high retention, word order errors)
back 11 months back 26 months
but he couldn't find it/the frog the frog was not in the jar ...
it wasn't there nowhere was the frog
nowhere the frog came
the frog wasn't anywhere
Subject 17 (age 12;3, abroad 3.10 years, high retention, negation abandoned,
switched to positive sentence)
back 17 months back 35 months
he realized that he forgotten the but [he didn't have a] he forgot his
wallet at his house wallet at home
Subject 2 (age 7;4, abroad 2.10 years, moderate retention, lexical and article
errors)
back < 1 month back 14 months
he noticed he didn't have any money he thought he didn't put a money to
the pocket
Subject 4 (age 7;10, abroad 2 years, moderate retention, shift to no-fronting)
back 9 months back 21 months
I don't have a money he has no money
Subject 7 (age 9;1, abroad 2 years, moderate retention, shift to present,
lexical + morpheme errors)
back 8 months back 23 months
but he ... didn't have the money but he don't (= doesn't) have themoney
he remember he forgot the pillow (= purse) at house
Japanese Returnees' Retention of English-Speaking Skills 39
Subject 5 (age 8;7, abroad 1.10 years, increased free morpheme errors)
back 17 months back 33 months
frog was not there dog's head don't (= didn't) get out
frog is not there there aren't a frog
he has not (= no) money there is not (= no) money
Subjects continued throughout their testing to attempt to produce relatively diffi-
cult, complex clauses with negatives and showed surprisingly little loss of syn-
tax. The interview process itself was stimulating and encouraged subjects to try
their hardest. For the subjects of this study, over the first year to a year and a half
after return, their syntax was sturdier than their lexicon and morphology. A lot of
infrequently used words dropped out of the returnees' vocabulary, and their mor-
pheme errors increased over time, but grammatical structures that were properly
in place at the time of their return were retained. The apparent robustness of syn-
tax is further considered in the followingdiscussion.
Personal Fa ors and Their Relation to Loss
We need to show the range of retention in verb usage for the 18 subjects before
we can relate the independent variables of age, time spent abroad, time back,
and TLU scores at study onset to the dependent variable of retention. By ranking
the subjects according to their TLU scores in Tables 2.4 and 2.5, we establish the
basis for evaluating the personal variables later. The results of Tables 2.4 and 2.5
are summarized in the more concise Tables 2.7 to 2.9 (see Appendix), which
present the overall TLU scores and percentages for both stories (refer to Tables
2.4 and 2.5 for base data).
The subjects separate into three groups: (1) > 80% TLU over the assessment
period indicates high retention and near native speakers; (2) 50%-79% TLU at
final assessment describes moderate retention and interlanguagespeakers; (3) >
50% TLU at final assessment indicates low-retentionand interlanguage speakers
with unstable syntax. Tables 2.7 to 2.9 show the data for groups 1-3, respec-
tively. The division between the subjects in Tables 2.7 and 2.8 is somewhat arbi-
trary because subjects scored differently on the two stories. Scores tended to be
higher on The Book, which had an accompanying tape, than on Frog, Where Are
You ? which required original storytelling from pictures. For example, the perfor-
mance of Subject 6 is borderline, scoring high retention on the retelling of The
Book but only moderate retention on Frog, Where Are You?
(1) < 50% TLU indicates high retention by near native speakers. As shown in
Table 2.7, these children maintained TLU scores at over 80%, indicating a high
level of communicative ability. Their speech continued to be characterized by
idiomatic, nativelike phrasing, although five out of six experienced either
decline in vocabulary or increase in redundancy. The same five out of six
increased their requests for vocabulary to be supplied; however, it is important
to recognize that they continued to incorporate quickly and accurately any
prompts given. Five subjects with residence abroad of 2.6 years or longer (14,
40 The Loss of English as a Second Language
12,13, 17, and 8) maintained stable use of the past tense in narrative, whereas Subject
18, with residence abroad of under two years, shifted over time to the present tense.
This group generally had error-free syntax, accurate use of two-word verbs,
and prepositions. Only Subject 14, who was back over two years, made errors
in word order.
(2) 50%-79% TLU indicates moderate retention by interlanguage speakers.
Generally, the following features characterize this group. They maintained com-
municative ability and use of idiomatic and formulaic expressions. There seems
to be a threshold level even at this intermediate level of L2 acquisition at which
the subjects' English has an internal cohesiveness. Erosion in vocabulary, how-
ever, led to overuse of common verbs (especially get in phrasal form, e.g., get
on, get up, get to). Bound and free morpheme errors already occurred in the
speech of these returnees at study onset. Bound morpheme errors included omis-
sion of -s morpheme for third person singular, omission of -ed in past regular;
free morpheme errors included omission of the auxiliary in the progressive, fail-
ure to produce a correct irregular past tense, and failure to have subject and pro-
gressive auxiliary to agree in number.
The evidence is clear that children of comparable age, time abroad, and time
back varied widely in proficiency at both the beginning and the end of the study.
Table 2.8 shows that the moderate retention group had the widest variation.Ini-
tial TLU scores ranged from 48% to 100%, and final scores from 47% to 83% at
study onset. Retention had the widest variation in this group: from 28% gain
(Subject 10) to 32% loss (Subject 2). We found through parent and subject inter-
views that the quality of educational experience these children had abroad also
varied from excellent elementary schools and close rapport with teachers to
never getting out of an ESL class where English input was primarily from non-
native speakers. The differences in educational experiences coupled with inter-
language speakers' characteristicallyunstable command of some morphosyntac-
tic structures probably explain much of the variation.
(3) > 50% TLU indicates low retention and unstable interlanguage speakers.
The test results for this group are summarized in Table 2.9. The striking charac-
teristic of returnees with low retentionscores of > 50% TLU was theinstability
of their syntax at study onset, which was within a month of one subject's (16)
return to Japan. These children (9, 16, 3, and 5) had not acquired sufficient
knowledge to maintain communicative ability outside the L2 environment.It
appears that they had failed to reach a critical threshold of speaking competency.
Their attrition was an accelerated version of loss experienced by returnees with
moderate retention. This group had a very limited vocabulary,was uncertainof
grammar, and put full attention to producing a relatively fluent story with no
apparent concern for accuracy. For these subjects, reversion to the verb stem in
place of a correct present or past form was most extreme. Like a spinning top
losing speed, their English showed ever increasing variation andinstability.
We should not. however, dismiss children in this group because of low
scores. These youngsters struggled to communicate in English. They were
inventive in their use of English, and with determination and composure they
carried off storytellingthat was clearly difficult for them.
Japanese Returnees' Retention of English-Speaking Skills 41
Thus, in response to the second part of the research questions, Do personal
characteristics of returnees' age, length of time abroad , length of time back,
and proficiency level at study onset relate to their accuracy in using verbs? If so,
what factors relate favorably to (are predictive of) L2 retention? We can see
from Tables 2.7-2.9 that high competence at study onset was the most predictive
factor of L2 retention. Short time elapsed since return was not a common char-
acteristic of subjects with high retention. Also, contrary to Yoshida & Arai
(1990) findings, being older did not guarantee high retention. I concluded that it
is not one factor but a combination of factors that predict strong retention. Near
native-speaking English ability was virtually a requirement for minimal attri-
tion. Children over eight years old, with literacy skills in English built up over
two years in school abroad, were the returnees with highest L2 retention. Chil-
dren under eight years and children with less than two years schooling abroad
experienced attrition of 30% to 79% in accuracy of verb forms. Thus, the factors
of age and length of stay are interdependent. The significanceof these findings
to the critical threshold notion is considered in the following discussion.
Discussion
This study of 18 returnees found common changes and shifts in use of the
English verb in storytelling. Specific changes could be related to particular lev-
els of proficiency as measured by TLU of verb forms. Evidence of these changes
has both theoretical and pedagogical implications.
On the theoretical side, the study findings support the inverse hypothesis that the
higher the subject's proficiency,the lower the degree of attrition. It also substanti-
ates the notion that attaining a critical threshold of competency mitigates against
language loss. The study further found that more than age or length of time abroad,
proficiency in speaking was the best predictor for retainingaccuracy in speaking.
This finding that links retention patterns to proficiency contradicts Weltens's
1989 conclusion that "attrition is independent of training level" (de Bot & Weltens
1995:153). Weltens's results agreed with Bahrick's massive study in which the
amount forgotten over a five-year period followingtrainingwas "relatively constant
for individuals at different levels of training" (Bahrick 1984a:116). How can we
explain this apparent contradiction? The answer, as described in the Introduction to
this volume, lies in the study designs. First, this study measured speaking skills,
whereas most of Weltens's and much of Bahrick's measured reading and listening.
Productive skills, as research has shown, are more susceptible to attrition than recog-
nition skills. Second, this study focused on children whose L2 competency was
much below Weltens's college students' or Bahrick's adults'. Third, this study
reported individual loss patterns through tracking the same subjects over time,
whereas Weltens and Bahrick both measured attrition by comparing groups. Thus,
a closer look at task, subject characteristics, and measurement design resolves the
apparently contradictory findings of this study and Weltens's and Bahrick's.
Although these results also support the notion of a critical threshold level
that secures retention, given the limited time frame of this study, a question
42 The Loss of English as a Second Language
arises about the relative robustness of syntax. Does it reflect structural stability
of the returnees' L2 or simply that a much longer period must elapse before syn-
tactic attrition sets in? Considering research by Weltens (1989) and Bahrick
(1984a), we believe that long-term syntactic stability probably characterizes
returnees who have achieved a high level of speaking competence. A longer
tracking period, however, would be the definitive way to answer this question.
Comparing this study with related research from the Kikoku shijo no
gaikokugo hoji, this study extends the findings of Yoshida & Arai (1990), which
reported characteristics of retention but not patterns of change. This study sheds
light on what happens to verb usage over time; what is altered or lost and how it
is altered or lost. Many differences that Yoshida & Arai found in speaking ability
between younger and older children were substantiated in this study. Both studies
agree on the influence of age on retention, the wide gap between recognition and
recall abilities, and the susceptibility of vocabulary and morphology to loss ver-
sus the relative robustness of syntax that has stabilized at some threshold level.
On a comparative linguistic level, Japanese children's English attrition fol-
lowed patterns similar to Israeli children's English attrition as reported by
Berman & Olshtain (1983) and Olshtain (1986, 1989). There were, however,
distinctive differences. This study supports Olshtain's claim that typological and
pragmatic similarities between the L1 and L2 lead to positive reinforcement for
L2 retention, whereas L1 and L2 dissimilarities lead to interference and attrition.
Japanese children's erroneous use of the English verb stem in place of analyzed
forms may be attributable to the wide use of the base form shuushikei in
Japanese.
Turning to the pedagogical implications of the findings, our comments on
assessing competencies, defining instructional goals, providing appropriate-level
L2 input, and designing classroom tasks may be useful to ESL teachers of
returnees.
In assessing competencies, teachers need to be aware that current measures go
beyond the four skills to assess fluency: accuracy in vocabulary, expressions, and
grammar; idiomatic usage; discourse responsiveness; and motivational factors.
Defining instructional goals for returnees requires considering the wide dis-
crepancies between their receptive and productive abilities. Yoshida & Arai
(1990:25) made the point that listening ability is easy to keep and should be
used as a key to retain and build up other skills. Reading is also an important
anchor for the literate child to retain the L2. Building up productive or speaking
skills requires intensive practice, but recognition skills require virtually no effort
for retention.
Providing L2 input at the appropriate level is essential. In teaching, we know
that vocabulary, idioms, grammatical complexity, and speed of discourse need to
be appropriate for each child's level so that the L2 input fits, yet reasonably
challenges, each child's abilities. The experience of prompting subjects during
this research made it clear that children will pick up only cues that fit their lan-
guage level. Prompting a returnee who hesitates in speaking can jog his or her
memory and ability to say nearly forgotten words and phrases. Speed and com-
plexity of input must also match the learner's level.
Japanese Returnees' Retention of English-Speaking Skills 43
In designing classroom tasks, naturally, the instructional needs of near-native
speakers are different from the needs of less competent speakers. Instruction of
high-level students should maximize contextualized speaking practice, and
"real" discourse in the classroom should have some time pressure. Less profi-
cient speakers with unstable syntax need more explicit instruction, including
grammatical explanations. In many areas, the interlanguage speaker needs to
relearn rather than recall. Time constraints are not appropriate for hesitant
speakers. Both high-and low-proficiency students benefit from conversational
practice that resembles "on line" discourse. Yet, reliance on short responses will
fail to build grammatical, syntactic complexity. Exercises that require explana-
tions, comparisons, and complicated descriptions will challenge returnees to
produce clauses rather than phrases and complex rather than simple sentences.
Although this study used TLU as an analytical tool that measures only accu-
racy, it should be emphasized that some returnees who used inaccurate or erro-
neous language are still successful storytellers. They are able to convey their
ideas even with very limited vocabulary and rudimentary grammar. Teachers
working to improve returnees' ESL skills need to encourage communicative
ability more than accuracy.
It is hoped that understanding some of the dynamic processes of language
retention and attrition will increase teachers' and parents' awareness and ability
to make their own personal observations and to help keep returnees' L2 abili-
ties. I want to point out that dropping efforts to maintain a second language is
also an option for returnee families who put their priority in other areas. There
is a choice. There is no right or wrong. Our time is limited and we want to be
effective.
Appendix
Table 2.1. Subjects' Personal Data
Subjects
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
Avg.
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
Avg.
Age1
(Years)
13.7
12.2
11.5
11.5
11.1
10.8
10.8
10.4
9.9
9.8
9.2
9.1
8.6
8.6
7.8
7.5
7.3
6.5
9.8
11.8
10.5
10.0
9.5
9.5
9.3
8.9
8.8
8.7
8.3
9.5
LOR2
(Years)
1.0
1.8
1.5
2.8
5.4
4.7
4.7
1.5
1.0
2.8
3.6
2.0
2.2
1.8
2.0
1.5
2.2
1.5
2.4
5.5
3.0
3.0
4.5
1.5
2.6
2.3
6.6
3.6
2.2
3.5
School3
(Grades)
Returnees
7
1-5(1/2)
4-6(1/2)
2-4
K-3
1-4
1-4
1-2
3
1-3
1-3
1-3(1/2)
K-2(l/2)
K-l
K-l
1-2(1/2)
K-l (1/2)
K-l (1/2)
2.2 yrs
Baseline
1-6
2-5
2-5
1-4
2-3
2-3
1-3
1-3
1-3
1-2
3.5 yrs
Months since
Return
< 1
17
< 1
3
11
<2
<2
19
3
3
<2
8
< 1
17
9
< 1
< 1
< 1
Native Speakers
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
11.8
11.5
11.5
11.3
10.3
9.8
9.6
8.9
8.9
7.8
11.8
11.5
11.5
11.3
10.3
9.8
9.6
8.9
8.9
7.8
K-6
K-5
K-5
K-5
K-4
K-4
K-4
K-3
K-3
K-2
44
Table 2.1. (continued)
Subjects
4
3
2
1
Avg.
Age1
(Years)
7.8
7.0
6.8
6.8
9.3
LOR2
(Years)
7.8
7.0
6.8
6.8
9.3
School3
(Grades)
K-2
K-2
K-l
K-l
2.9
Months since
Return
Notes:1
Age and time periods are in decimals; 5.5 - 5 years, 6months.
-LOR = Length of residence in L2/L1 country. Given for L2 country for
returnees and baseline.
3
Years in L2 school for returnees and baseline; for L1 school for native
speakers.
45
Table 2.2. Returnees' Interview Times and Literacy Scores
Subject
(ID no.)
Age
(Years)
LOR-L2
(Years) Time 1 Time 2 Time 3
Literacy Test1
(percentile score)
Group 1 (Recent Returnees Back 0-3 Months)
18
16
15
13
12
10
9
8
6
3
2
1
Avg.
14
7
4
Avg.
13.7
11.5
11.5
10.8
10.8
9.9
9.8
9.2
8.6
7.5
7.3
6.5
9.8
11.1
9.1
7.8
9.3
1.0
1.5
2.8
4.7
4.7
1.0
2.8
3.6
2.2
1.5
2.2
1.5
2.5
5.4
2.0
2.0
3.1
< 1 nd2
1 6
3 nd
<2 5
<2 5
2 5
3 nd
<2 5
<1 5
<1 7
< 1 5
<1 7
<2 5.6
Group 2 (Back 8-11 Months)
11 17
8 14
9 14
9.3 15.0
12
12
11
10
10
14
11
10
14
nd
14
nd
11.8
26
23
21
23.3
99
82
99
99
99
99
79
98
99
68
88
66
89.6
95
99
79
91.0
Group 3 (Back 17-19 Months)
17
11
5
Avg.
12.2
10.4
8.6
10.4
3.8
1.5
1.8
2.4
17 nd
19 25
17 nd
17.7 25.0
35
35
33
34.3
99
88
79
88.7
Nates: The grouping of subjects in Table 2.2 is not intended to indicate especially logical groupings of subjects
according to anticipated retention patterns, The study findings on subjects' relative ranking on a retention-attrition
continuum, presented later in Tables 2.42.9, does group the subjectsby L2 accuracy in verb forms and permits fur-
ther analysis of the personal variables of age, length of time abroad, and accuracy of verb forms at study onset.
1
Literacy test was the Stanford Achievement Test, Abbreviated, Primary 1, Form J (Psychological Corp., Harcourt,
Brace & Jovanovich 1988).
2
nd means no test data for test time shown.
46
Table 2.3. Vocabulary Diversity in Storytelling: (The Book) Comparisonof Returnees, Baselines,and Native Speakers
Tape
token ratio = .43
Range: low
high
Avg. (n=ll)
Range: low
high
Avg. (n = 3)
Range: low
high
Avg. (n = 3)
Range: low
high
Avg. (n = 10)
Overall
Type Token
92 213
46 113
70 165
62 142
59 125
64 178
62 152
38 124
62 139
52 132
48 110
82 199
64 145
Verb
Type Token
29
13
19
18
16
22
19
18
15
17
12
24
19
45
20
32
29
28
33
30
26
26
26
21
39
29
Noun
Type Token
19
13
17
16
13
17
16
18
13
15
15
24
18
46
23
27
29
28
47
4
35
27
32
24
41
31
Articles Pronoun Preposition
Type Token Type Token Type Token
3
Group 1
2
2
2
Group 2:
3
2
12
Group 3:
3
2
2
2
4
3
21 8 39 13 26
Returnees'
: Back 0-3 Months (Type-token Ratio =.
1 0 3 2 2 3 9
16 7 33 7 13
14 5 28 6 13
Back 8-11 Months (Type-token Ratio =
1 9 3 2 2 5 8
20 4 24 6 15
19 3 23 7 12
Back 17-22 Months (Type-token Ratio=
17 7 25 6 13
21 3 26 2 10
20 5 23 6 12
Baselines (Type-token Ratio = .44)
10 3 10 6 12
25 8 33 15 27
16 5 27 8 18
Conjunc.
Type Token
8
,44)
3
4
5
.41)
5
4
4
= .39)
2
2
3
2
7
4
17
17
25
18
9
23
15
13
10
13
9
27
16
Modifiers
Type Token
7
2
6
4
4
10
6
4
1
3
2
5
4
11
3
6
5
4
10
7
5
1
4
2
6
4
Others
Type Token
5
1
3
2
0
2
1
3
0
1
1
4
4
11
2
6
4
0
3
2
4
0
1
2
7
3
Native Speakers (Type-token Ratio = .44)
Range: low
high
Avg. (n = 14)
55 116
116 254
86 185
18
32
25
21
51
36
15
26
18
24
51
38
11
23
17
11 3 25 5 11
23 9 44 13 27
15 6 35 9 19
8
4
6
12
33
20
2
15
5
2
16
7
1
11
4
2
18
6
Note: 1
Returnee data are from first testing
3
5
Table 2.4. Returnees' Targetlike Usage" of Verb Morphemes and Tense over Timefor The Book
Subjects (High LOR/L2
to low retention) Age (Yrs)
Overall
SOC
No. Verbs
Change/
Time Present
%TLU T1-T3 SOC %TLU
Past
Reg.
SOC %TLU
Past
Irreg.
SOC %TLU
Present
Prog.
SOC
Past
Prog.
%TLU SOC
Other
(Infin.
%TLU Participles) Notes
High Retention
13.timel:<2 mo. 10.8 4.7
time 2: 5
time 3: 10
14. timel: 11 mo. 11.1 5.4
time 2: 17
12. time i: < 2 mo. 10.8 4.7
time 2: 5
time 3: 10
17. time 1: 17 mo. 12.2 3.8
time 2: 35
6. time 1 : < 1 mo. 8.6 2.2
time 2: 5
time 3: 14
8. time l:< 2 mo. 9.2 3.6
time 2: 5
time 3: 10
28/28
28/28
29/29
24/24
28/28
24/24
24/24
24/24
16/21
22/26
30/30
21/23
21/25
26/27
21/21
20/24
100
100
100 0%
100
100 0%
100
100
100 0%
76
85 9%
100
91
84 -16%
96
100
83 -13%
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 100
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 66
0 
0 
0 
0 
13
10
8
7
8
10
10
6
6
9
9
8
2
10
7
2
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
55
82
100
100
66
100
100
50
12
15
16
15
18
11
10
17
10
13
16
10
12
15
14
14
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
77
87
100
100
92
95
100
78
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
 2
 2
100 1
 0
 0
 3
 2
1
 0
 0
 2
1
 2
 0
 0
 3
100
100
100

100
100
100

100
100
100

100
1
1
3
2
2
0
0
0
0
0
3
0
5
1
0
1
9,10
9,10
9,10
9,10
5,9,10
9,10
1
Moderate Retention
timel1: <l mo. 7.3 2.2
time 2: 5
time 3: 14
4. time 1:9 mo. 7.8 2.0
time 2: 14
10. time 1:2 mo. 9.9 1.0
time 2: 5
time 3: 14
l. time 1: 1 mo. 6.5 1.5
time 2: 7
11. time 1: 19mo. 10.4 1.5
time 2: 25 (BDFb)
time 3: 35
15. time 1: 3 mo. 11.5 2.8
time 2: 11
7. time 1:8 mo. 9.1 2.0
time 2: 14
time 3: 23
21/21
13/16
17/25
31/35
17/29
16/26
16/25
14/25
18/30
22/43
21/28
11/24
12/25
13/22
12/24
13/20
19/27
12/21
100
81
68 -32%
89
59 -30%
61
60
56 -5%
60
51 -9%
75
46
48 -27%
60
50 -10%
65
70
57 -8%
0
0
0
11
11
2
2
2
1
8
4
3
1
5
0
0
0



100
50
50
50
100
50
44
44
1
19
50
50


4
3
2
4
1
3
3
3
2
3
5
14
1
6
2
4
6
6
100
40
100
100
100
40
38
22
60
83
3
20
75
60
50
66
75
16
10
13
12
5
9
9
9
15
7
9
50
6
6
4
6
6
5
100
71
81
83
100
100
50
60
83
70
75
7
60
60
100
75
60
63
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
64
0
0
0
0
0
0
 0 
 0 
0
 0 
 3 100
 2 100
 2 100
 0 
 0 
20 2 66
 0 
0  0
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1 100
 -2 0
1
0
2
3
0
0
0
0
0
1
3

2
0
1
1
6
1
9,10
9
1,2
7,8
2,9
2,3,9
2,3
0
1,2,5
1,3,7
2,5,7,8
1,2,3,4
(continued)
Table 2.4. (continued)
Subjects (High LOR/L2
to low retention) Age (Yrs)
Overall
SOC
No. Verbs
Change/
Time Present
%TLU T1-T3 SOC %TLU
Past
Reg.
SOC %TLU
Past
Irreg.
SOC %TLU
Present
Prog.
SOC
Past Other
Prog. (Infin.
%TLU SOC %TLU Participles) Notes
Low Retention
9. time 1: 3 mo. 9.75 2.8
time 2: 1 1
16. time 1:< ! mo. 11.5 1.5
time 2: 6
time 3:12
5. time 1:<1 mo. 7.5 1.5
time 2: 7
3. time 1: 17 mo. 8.6 1.8
time 2: 33
9/18
9/26
20/28
13/26
9/26
6/20
4/21
14/24
15/22
50
35 -15%
71
50
35 -36%
30
19 -11%
58
68 10%
1
5
0
1
0
0
1
1
9
100
80
33


33
74
3
2
4
3
3
0
2
2
0
50
30
66
37
50

18
40

5
2
12
9
4
5
1
10
2
45
30
66
50
33
25
18
83
100
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
 0 
 0 
0
0
0
 0 
 0 
 1 100
 2 66
0
0
2
0
2
1
0
0
2
1,
1,3,5
2
1,2.3
1,2,3
1,2,3
4,5,6,7
Notes: a
TLU = Targetlike usage. Formula = SOC (OC + SNOC). See explanation on p. 29.
b
BDF means subject told the companion story, The Boy, the Dog, and the Frog.
1. Relied on verb stem in place of present and past forms.
2. Missing third person singular s morpheme.
3. Missing auxiliary in progressive.
4. Failure of progressive auxiliary to agree in number with subject.
5. Inappropriate lexical choice/overgeneralization of verb meaning.
6. Relied on present tense.
7. Shift to present from past tense.
8. Shift to progressive aspect.
9. Relied on past tense.
10. Stable TLU of verb forms (high or low).
0
0
0
Table 2.5. Returnees' Targetlike Usagea of Verb Tense and Aspect over time for Frog, Where Are You?
Subjects (High LOR/L2
to low retention) Age (Yrs)
Overall
SOC
No. Verbs
Change/
Time
%TLU T1-T3
Present
SOC %TLU
Past
Reg.
SOC %TLU
Past
Irreg.
SOC %TLU
Present
Prog.
SOC %TLU
Past
Prog.
SOC %TLU Notes
High Retention
14.
12.
18.
13.
17.
8.
time 1:
time 2:
time 3:
time l:
time 2:
time 3:
time 1:
time 2:
time 1:
time 2:
time 3:
time 1:
time 2:
time 1 :
time 2:
time 3:
11 mo. 11.1 5.4
17(BDF)
26
< 2 mo. 10.8 4.7
5
10
< 1 mo. 13.7 1.0
12
< 2 mo. 10.8 4.7
5
10
17 mo. 12.2 3.8
35
< 2 mo. 9.2 3.6
5
10
43/43
44/57
65/68
40/41
48/50
43/45
50/60
63/68
35/37
40/42
36/39
39/42
46/51
36/41
26/27
33/37
100
77
96 -4%
99
96
96 -3%
83
93 10%
95
95
92 -3%
93
90 -3%
88
95
89 1%
0
5
4
3
1
4
7
23
3
3
1
1
9
0
0
0
100
100
100
100
80
70
96
100
100
100
100
100


10
16
13
5
20
7
5
7
5
11
6
14
13
7
11
5
100
76
100
100
95
100
83
100
100
100
100
93
93
64
100
83
28
14
27
13
24
21
26
16
13
17
15
22
21
26
13
22
100
78
96
100
90
95
93
100
100
100
100
96
87
92
100
92
0
8
19
11
1
10
8
15
10
9
10
1
1
0
0
0
100
94
100
55
100
98
79
90
100
83
100
100


5
1
2
3
2
0
1
2
1
0
0
1
3
3
2
3
100
100
100
75
100
33
100
100
100
100
100
100
75
10
9,10
10
9,10
5.7.10
9,10
(continued)
Table 2.5. (continued)
Subjects (High
to low retention) Age
Overall
LOR/L2 SOC
(Yrs) No. Verbs %TLU
Change/
Time Present
T1-T3 SOC %TLU
Past
Reg.
SOC %TLU
Past
Irreg.
SOC %TLU
Present
Prog.
SOC %TLU
Past
Prog.
SOC %TLU
Moderate Retention
8.6
6. time 2: 5
time 3: 14
10. time 1:2 mo 9.9
time 2: 5
time 3: 14
4. time 1:9 mo 7.8
time 2: 14
time 3: 21
11. time 1:19 mo 10.4
time 2: 25 (BDF)
time 3: 35
2. time 1: < 1 mo 7.3
time 2: 5
time 3: 14
1. time 1: 1 mo 6.5
time 2: 11
2.2 38/38
31/33
38/50
1.0 23/61
38/54
41/54
2.0 26/46
25/30
25/36
1.5 26/39
29/35
15/25
2.2 20/24
27/32
22/38
1.5 19/32
19/38
100
94
75
48
70
76
57
83
69
66
83
60
83
84
58
50
50
0
0
-25% 0
3
0
28% 8
10
9
12% 5
1
11
-6% 1
0
2
-25% 0
0
-5% 8



50
80
60
100
56
16
48
14
100

50
11
11
7
1
14
10
1
4
8
3
5
5
6
6
0
2
3
100
100
87
25
78
60
33
80
73
75
83
83
100
85
nd
22
100
25
18
22
13
21
14
13
8
11
12
9
4
10
13
19
15
5
100
100
88
52
68
77
72
80
80
86
90
50
77
93
83
83
70
0
1
0
1
0
1
0
5
1
8
1
5
0
5
0
1
2

33

50
0
100
0
83
33
66
100
70
nd
100

50
17
2
1
7
5
3
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
5
3
1
1
100
100
87
45
75
100
14




50
100
37
0
100
5,9
7,9,
1,2,3,6
7
8
4,5,9
1,2,3,6
Low Retention
9. time 1:
time 2:
7. time 1:
time 2:
time 3:
16. time 1:
time 2:
time 3:
3. time 1:
time 2:
5. time 1:
time 2:
3 mo 9.8 2.8
11
8 mos 9.1 2.0
14 (BDF)
23
< 1mo 11.5 1.5
6 (BDF)
19
1 mo 7.5 1.5
7
17 mo 8.6 1.8
33
9/19
17/36
19/25
20/35
15/42
22/34
16/29
8/22
27/36
17/35
22/37
6/20
47
47 0%
76
57
47 -29%
65
55
26 -39%
74
50 -24%
60
30 -30%
0
2
1
2
0
4
6
1
12
1
1
3

100
25
29
0
66
32
100
75
100
100
30
2
1
6
4
4
3
2
4
3
I
4
0
50
17
86
80
44
75
66
80
50
50
30
6
9
8
5
10
7
5
-14
7
7
16
1
50
60
80
42
50
78
62
0
100
54
80
25
0
0
1
3
1
4
1
1
5
7
1
1.00


100
50
33
66
17
100
71
80
100
33
1
5
2
0
0
2
0
2
0
0
0
i
33
38
100


50

100


0
33
2,3,5
1,2,3,5
1,2,3,9
5
1,2,3,4
1,2,5
1,2,3,5
Nates: "TLU = Targetlike usage. Formula: = SOC 4 (OC + SNOC). See explanation on p. 29.
"BDF means subject told the companion story, The Boy, the Dog, and the Frog.
1. Relied on verb stem in place of present and past forms.
2. Missingthird person singular s morpheme.
3. Missing auxiliary in progressive.
4. Failure of progressive auxiliary to agree in number with subject.
5. Inappropriate lexical choice/overgeneralization of verb meaning.
6. Relied on present tense.
7. Shift to present from past tense.
8. Shift to progressive aspect.
9. Relied on past tense.
10. StableTLU of verb forms (high or low).
Table 2.6. Verb Stem Errors in Storytelling
Number of Verb Stems Used Erroneously
Subjects1
Initial Stories Final Stories
High Retention
14 0
12 0
18 2
13 0
17 3
8 3
0
1
2
0
5
0
Moderate Retention
6 0
10 19
4 7
2 2
11 10
15 11
1 22
7 7
1
21
10
7
17
14
20
19
Low Retention
9 15
16 12
3 28
5 14
13
2
21*
5*
Notes: Number of months subjects had been back in Japan
varied; number of months between subjects' initial and final
stories varied.
*indicates low output
1
Subjects ranked by targetlike usage scores.
54
Table 2.7. High Retention: < 80% Targetlike Usage"
Returnees' Verb Accuracy in Storytelling over Time
The Book
Subjects
14.
12.
18.
13.
17.
8.
back: 11 mo.
back: 17 (BDF1
)
back: 26
back: < 2 mo.
back: 5
back 10
back: < 1 mo.
back: 12 mo.
back: < 1 mo.
back: 5
back: 10
back: 17 mo.
back: 35
back: < 2 mo.
back: 5
back:10
SOC -
Total
Verbs
24/24
28/28
24/24
24/24
24/24
28/28
28/28
29/29
16/21
22/26
26/27
21/21
20/24
Overall Change
%TLUa
%TLU
100
100
nd2
100
100
100
nd
nd
100
100
100
76
85 9
96
100
83 -13
Total
Verbs
43/43
44/57
65/68
40/41
48/50
43/45
50/60
63/68
35/37
40/42
36/39
39/42
46/51
36/41
26/27
33/37
Frog, Where Are You?
Overall Change Age LOR-L2
%TLUa
%TLU (Yrs.) (Yrs.)
100 11.1 5.4
77
96 -4
99 10.8 4.7
96
96 -3
83 13.7 1.0*
93 10
95 10.8 4.7
95
92 -3
93 12.2 3.8
90 -3
88 9.2 3.6
95
89 1
Notes: *See Tables 2.4 and 2.5 for complete data.
TLU - Targetlike usage. Formula: = SOC - (OC+ SNOC). See explanation on p.29.
'BDF means subject told The Boy, the Dog, and the Frog in Time 2.
-nd means no test data for test time shown
55
soc
Table 2.8. Moderate Retention: 50-79% Targetlike Usagea
Returnees' Verb Accuracy in Storytelling over Time
The Book
Subjects
6.
10.
4.
2.
11.
15.
1.
7.
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
< 1 mo.
5
14
2 mo.
5
14
9 mo.
14 (BDF1
)
21
< 1 mo.
5
14
19 mo.
25 (BDF)
35
3 mo.
11
< 1 mo
7
back: 8 mo.
back:
back:
14(BDF)
23
SOC-
Total
Verbs
30/30
21/23
21/25
16/26
16/25
14/25
31/35
17/29
nd2
21/21
13/16
17/25
21/28
11/24
12/25
13/22
12/24
18/30
22/43
13/20
19/27
12/21
Overall Change
%TLUa
%TLU
100
91
84 -26
61
60
56 -5
89
59 -30
100
81
68 -32
75
46
48 -27
60
50 -10
60
51 -9
65
70
57 -8
SOC-
Total
Verbs
38/38
31/33
38/50
23/61
38/54
41/54
26/46
26/30
25/36
20/24
27/32
22/38
26/39
29/35
15/26
21/38
19/38
19/32
21/42
19/25
20/35
15/42
Frog,
Overall
%TLUa
100
94
75
48
70
76
57
87
69
83
84
58
66
83
60
55
50
60
50
76
57
47
Where Are You?
Change Age LOR-L2
%TLU (Yrs.) (Yrs.)
8.6 2.2
-25
9.9 1.0
28
7.8 2.0
12
7.3 2.2
-25
10.4 1.5
-6
11.5 2.8
-5
6.5 1.5
-10
9.1 2.0
-29
Notes: *See Tables 2.4 and 2.5 for completedata.
TLU = Targetlikeusage. Formula: = SOC - (OC + SNOC). See explanation on p.29.
'BDF means subject told The Boy,the Dog, and the Frog in Time 2
3
nd means no test data for test time shown.
56
Table 2.9. Low Retention: > 50% Targetlike Usagea
Returnees' Verb Accuracy in Storytelling over Time
Subjects
9.
16.
3.
5.
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
back:
3 mo.
11
< 1 mo.
6 (BDP)
12
< 1 mo.
7
17 mo.
33
SOC-
Total
%TLUa
9/18
9/26
20/28
13/26
9/26
6/20
4/21
14/24
15/22
The Book
Overall Change
%TLU Verbs
50
35 -15
71
50
35 -36
30
-7
58
68 10
Frog, Where Are
SOC -
Total
%TLUa
9/19
17/36
22/34
16/29
8/22
27/36
17/35
22/37
6/20
Overall
%TLU
47
47
65
55
26
74
50
60
30
Change
(Yrs.)
0
-39
-24
-30
You?
Age
(Yrs.)
9.8
11.5
7.5
8.6
LOR-L2
Verbs
2.8
1.5
1.5
1.8
Notes: *See Tables 2.4 and 2.5 for complete data.
TLU = Targetlike usage. Formula: = SOC 4- (OC + SNOC). See explanation on p. 29.
'BDF means subject told The Boy, the Dog, and the Frog in Time 2.
57
58 The Loss of English as a Second Language
Notes
Notation Used in Transcription
Stories were transcribed clause by clause following a modified version of D. I. Slobin's
(1989) Frog Story Procedures, (unpublished procedures manual). Each line is a clause,
providing the subject uttered a subject and verb.
/ End-of-clause line where the text format was limited and run-on
line was used
[word] Subject's self-correction; the word given is the subject's intended
word
(I:...) Interviewer's comment
XXX Indecipherable or garbled word
The sentence has a grammatical or lexical error, e.g., finding" (look-
ing for)the * indicates a lexical error, the word in ( ) was not used
by the subject, but is a possible and correct lexical choice).
Underlining is added to draw attention to a particularword.
1. While schools differ in their admissions procedures, kikoku shijo eligibility is typically
restricted to applicants whose families went abroad because of a parent's job.
2. Campion's Interactive Encyclopedia [CD ROM] 1994. In English.
3. The one-year longer average length of stay in the L2 environment of the baseline
group compared with the returnees deserves comment. The baseline group provided a
frame of reference for L2 lexical and grammatical development against which the
returnees could be compared. The more advanced lexicon and grammatical compe-
tency in English of the baseline group indicates their steady linguistic development in
English. However, their inaccuracies also dispelled any notion that three years in the
L2 school system produces near-native competency in speaking English. This baseline
group still showed evidence of L2 learner errors. The baselines' stories replete with
learner errors demonstrates the near futility of trying to distinguish between failure to
acquire language and language loss. The baseline data, in fact, make the best case for
using longitudinal tracking to assess language loss.
4. Subjects' repetitions of prompts were not counted in vocabulary or output tallies.
5. T-tests on these (% change in TLU) results showed there was > 2.75 difference in t-
value between the means of the two tests, indicating that both instruments (The Book
and Frog, Where Are You?) measured the same thing. The difference in measurement
results of the two instruments was not significant at 99%.
6. No credit was given for erroneous but still communicatively competent language.
7. Age 13;8 means 13 years, 8 months; abroad 1.0 year means child resided in L2-speak-
ing country one year.
8. Shuushikei is commonly used for the following types of exp -essions:
a Boku ga yobu yoo: (male speaker) I'll call you/her/him/etc.
b. Tsukau (rising intonation): Will you/she/he/etc., use it?
c. Issho ni iku (rising intonation): Will (someone) go/comewith/you/me/her/
etc.? [or] Shall we go together?
d. Gakko nu iku: I/you/she/etc., will go to
The First Stage of Second Language Attrition:
A Case Study of a Japanese Returnee
Machiko Tomiyama
Despite a short history of language attrition as a field of linguistic research, we
have witnessed new insights being accumulated, hypotheses being generated,
and evidence and counter evidence being provided. However, as young a field as
it is and the methodological paths to the inquirybeing multifold, many areas still
remain basically unexplored. The present study is devoted to one such area,
namely, a longitudinal studyin a genuine sense, of natural second language
(L2 English) attrition within an individual in the first language (L1 Japanese)
environment.
Previous empirical research that has contributed significantly to the literature
of L2 attrition has been based mostly on cross-sectional data of foreign language
skills loss in adults (e.g., Godsall-Meyers 1981; Bahrick 1984; Myers 1984a,b;
Moorecroft & Gardner 1987; de Bot & Clyne 1989; Weltens et al. 1989). These
employ tests and self-reports or both, as measures to assess attrition. Longitudi-
nal studies that deal with the attrition of naturally acquired L2 of younger chil-
dren have been limited to investigations of specific grammatical structures (e.g.,
Olshtain 1989; Reetz-Kurashige this volume) or a subset of skills (e.g., Cohen
1989). While Yoshitomi's pioneering work (1994) on the attrition of Japanese
returnees provides a wealth of information on various linguistic features as well
as on subskills of English, the data are drawn from comparisons of four neces-
sarily different individuals to represent the variables selected for investigation.
Kuhberg's longitudinal research (1992) probing into the question of regression
hypothesis is a study methodologically and typologically similar to the present
study but deals with L1 Turkish, L2 German. Other longitudinal studies, such as
the one by Kaufman & Aronoff (1991) and another by Turian & Altenberg
(1991) deal with L1 attrition observed in younger subjects (two to three years of
59
3
60 The Loss of English as a Second Language
age at the onset). The former focuses on the morphosyntactic attrition, whereas
the latter focuses on the attrition of compensatory strategies.
This continuing project was launched in 1992 with the purpose of tracking the
same individual's overall change in naturally acquired L2 when this individual was
placed in an environment where L2 input and opportunities for use were deprived.
The present contribution focuses on the first stage of the overall developmental attri-
tion process of one child, which covers the period 2-19 months after being removed
from the dominant language environment.At present, the tracking has extended
over four years. (For the subsequent stages, see Tomiyama 1995, 1996, 1998).
A longitudinal observation of the same individual in a natural setting (as
opposed to cross-sectional data based on tests and self-reports, or both) is valu-
able in the following ways:
1. It is possible to establish the fact of acquisition and subsequent attrition; in
attrition research, caution must be exercised in distinguishing between
non- acquisition and loss;
2. It is possible to avoid the assumption taken by cross-sectional studies that
the length of instruction or residence can be equated with the level of
acquisition; with this assumption, the cross-sectional approach examines
the degree of attrition by comparing the subject's levels of proficiency and
elapsed time after being away from the L2-rich environment;
3. It is possible to integrate isolated linguistic behavior from a macroscopic-
point of view.
Since this contribution is based on a case study classified as qualitative research,
it should be understood that the main thrust of the project is to describe as fully
as possible what was observed or not observed and to provide insights and direc-
tions for future large-scale experimental studies. At this stage of development in
the study of language attrition, when no complete theory has been advanced nor
relevant factors have been discerned from the irrelevant, it is crucial to docu-
ment any notable phenomena with an open mind.
Based on previous research, however, the following questions were high-
lighted for the study:
1. Are phonology, lexicon, morphology, and syntax differentially affected?
2. Are productive skills more susceptible to attrition than receptive skills?
3. How is the speed of attrition?
4. How is fluency affected?
5. How does the subject compensate for the skills he is losing?
6. Can individual differences be observed?
Method
Subject's Profile
The subject was a Japanese boy who will be called Ken. Ken comes from an
upper-middle-class family. His parents are well educated and proficient in
The First Stage of Second Language Attrition 61
English. He left Japan at the age of 1;3 when his father was transferred to San
Jose, California, and returned home when he was 8;0. During his seven years in
the San Jose area, he went through a local preschool, kindergarten, and elemen-
tary school up to the second grade. As a rule set by his parents, only Japanese
was to be spoken at home, but according to his mother, English became his
dominant language by the final year. His report card for the second grade
showed "outstanding" achievements in reading, spelling, and language arts. His
playmates were English-speaking children in the neighborhood.
Upon returning to Japan, he entered a local public school in Tokyo as a sec-
ond grader. Naturally, L2 input became very limited. Table 3.1 lists chronologi-
cally the time of data-collecting sessions, classroom-type input, and miscella-
neous L2 input events. Watching videos or other L2 activities, which could not
Table 3.1. Summary of Input
Stage
I
Total
Hours
Month
May/92
June
July
Aug.
Sept.
Oct.
Nov.
Dec.
Jan./93
Feb.
March
April
May
June
July
Aug.
Sept..
Oct.
Months
after
Returning
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
Data
Collecting
Session
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
16.5
Structured
Input
1 Computer lesson
(1 hr.)/week
1 Computer lesson
(1 hr.)/week
1 Computer lesson
(1 hr.)/week
1-2 Computer lessons
(1 hr.)/month
1-2 Computer lessons
(1 hr.)/month
1-2 Computer lessons
(1 hr.)/month
1-2 Computer lessons
(1hr.)/month
1-2 Computer lessons
(lhr)/month
3 English lessons
(80 min.)/month
3 English lessons
(80 min.)/month
24
Misc.
Input
Reading
Visitors
Visitors
Visitors
62 The Loss of English as a Second Language
be documented, were excluded from the list. The information was based on the
report from the subject's mother.
Starting from three months after his return, Ken went to a computer lesson
once a week, one hour per session, for two months. This was a private lesson
taught by an English-speaking teacher in English. There was a break for two
months, and from six to ten months after returning to Japan, he went to the les-
son sporadically once or twice per month. Other than the data-collecting ses-
sions, there was a blank period for about seven months. At the point of 18
months after his return, he enrolled in a group English lesson for returnees. The
lessons were 80 minutes per session, which he attended three times a month on
the average.
Miscellaneous events pertaining to L2 input were also limited. There were a
couple of occasions when English-speaking visitors came to Ken's home and
conversed with him in English. Reading in English stopped at about two months
after returning to Japan.
Approximately, there was a total of less than 16.5 hours of data-collecting
sessions and 24 hours of English instruction over the period of a year and a half.
The figures show that the total exposure hours of L2 drastically decreased from
what he had experienced in the United States, even considering the undocu-
mented inputhours.
According to his mother, he has adjusted well to Japanese life and is doing
well in school, both academically and socially. He is a very mature, bright, and
cooperative child.
Data Collection
Data collection began two months after Ken returned to Japan. The data reported
here are based on those up to 19 months, hereafter labeled Stage l.1
The data
from the subject were gathered monthly, with a few exceptions, by the
researcher visiting the subject's home (see Table 3.1 for the data-collecting
schedule). Each session lasted for about one hour per subject, which was video-
taped and audiotaped. The taped materials were then transcribed. In a typical
session, a game was played in the beginning,mainly as a warm-up and to estab-
lish rapport in English. This was usually followed by free conversation to record
spontaneous speech. Elicited speech was also collected at various points. As for-
mal measures, the Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test (PPVT) and the Bilingual
Syntax Measure (BSM) were used in the beginning to formally assess his
English proficiency, and to determine the baseline for receptive lexicon and
morphology, respectively. The PPVT and BSM were used repeatedly at later
sessions to examine the progression of attrition.A picture book, A Boy, A Dog, A
Frog, and A Friend (Mayer 1971) was employed as another elicitation device.
This frog series by Mayer is now commonly used by attrition researchers. The
book has a series of detailed pictures but no written text, and the subjects are
free to produce a story along the pictured story line in any way they wish. Wacky
Wednesday by LeSieg (1974) was used to systematically elicit his productive
The First Stage of Second Language Attrition 63
vocabulary and to examine his morpheme use as well as sentence structur in a
controlled environment; that is, to force the subject always to refer to certain
objects or notions whenever speech is elicited. The task was to find out and
describe all the wacky things in the pictures.
In general, in order not to sacrifice naturalness for the convenience of data
gathering, every effort was made to secure an environment that made the sub-
ject feel at ease and enjoy himself.
Baseline Data
In the first session (i.e., two months after the return), Ken showed no signs of
difficulty in expressing himself and sustaining a conversation with the
researcher for a long period of time. He would respond to the researcher's
English in English right from the beginning, and he would continue to do so
throughout the session. His mannerisms and pronunciation were nativelike. For-
mally, his raw score on the PPVT was 101, an age equivalent of 9;3, when his
chronological age wa's 8;2. He measured Level 4 (intermediate English) on the
BSM. The reason he did not measure Level 5 (proficient) was that he had not
acquired conditionals.
Findings
A Precursor
Up until five months after returning, Ken would react to the researcher in
English right from the beginning of the session. However, at the sixth-month
session, he did not respond in English even when the recording had started. The
whole discourse of the first twelve minutes was the researcher speaking in
English and Ken responding in Japanese or talking to himself in Japanese.
At seven months Ken rebounded. He responded in English immediately from
the beginning without codemixing or codeswitching. There was hardly any
noticeable change from the sessions prior to the one at six months. At that point
the sixth-month session appeared to be an exception.
However, at eight months, instances of codeswitching started to appear. The
sixth-month session, where there was a chunk of Japanese discourse, was indeed
a precursor to a more regular attrition pattern.
Codeswitching
Codeswitching is an oft-observed phenomenon in the process of L2 attrition
(e.g., Olshtain 1989; Kuhberg 1992) as well as L1 attrition (e.g., Kaufman &
Aronoff 1991; Turian & Altenberg 1991). Kuhberg (1992) claims that for his
subjects, codeswitching is "the developmentally most relevant feature in the
64 The Loss of English as a Second Language
attrition process" (p. 148). He therefore divides the attrition stages from the per-
spective of codeswitching as follows:
Stage 1: No codeswitching
Stage 2: Predominantly free morpheme codeswitching and some bound mor-
pheme codeswitching
Stage 3: Increased codeswitching; some free morpheme codeswitching and
predominantly bound morpheme codeswitching
Ken's codeswitching observed at this stage was all free-morpheme switching.
No instance of bound-morpheme codeswitching was found.
For Ken, however, a more notable pattern emerged when the type of switched
utterances was focused for analysis: The switched utterances were concentrated
on interjections, conversational fillers, and emotional utterances such as express-
ing frustration and excitement. The following is an example taken from the tran-
script2
of the eighth month session.
(1) <both working on a puzzle>
1 R: Woo. Tough, tough,tough.
2 K: ee wakannai yo
[= What? I can't figure it out!]
<both keep trying>
3 K: ee wakannai <even more frustrated than before>
[= What? I can't figure it out!]
<a few moments later>
4 R: Where's the answer?
<Ken looks at the answer key>
5 K: aa atte-ru
[= Wow! It's correct!]
6 R: Is that correct?
7 K: <mumbles something to himself>
8 R: Huh?
9 K: Uh, huh. Let's do this one. [K05]
Another example is onaka hetta na [= I'm hungry!] right in the middle of a story-
telling task later in the same session.
Conversational fillers were also susceptible to codeswitching as in (2).
(Japanese fillers are underlined.)
(2) <Ken telling the researcher a story>
1 K: And went to the, uh, uhm, to the king.
2 R: Mm.
3 K: Palace.
4 R: Uh, huh
5 K: unto ne (2 sec) de (5 sec) eeto ne
[= uh, well, uhm]
The First Stage of Second Language Attrition 65
6 R: Yeah.
7 K: And he gave it to the king. [K05]
(See also [3], [5], [11], and [12] for other instances of fillers indicating hesitation.)
As shown above, interjections, fillers, and emotion-laden utterances were
very likely to be switched to L1 at this stage.
Lexical Attrition
Lexical Retrieval Difficulty
Codeswitching is one observable surface phenomenon with possibly multiple
motivations for its use. One apparent motivation for Ken's codeswitching was to
compensate for his lexical retrieval difficulty. From the eighth month on, there
were many examples of his switching to Japanese to request a particular English
word. He even had trouble with a seemingly familiar word like English. Below
are some examples:
(3) 1 K: There was uhm (4 sec) to eigo-tte nan te iu n dakke
[= Uhm, how do we say English?!
2 R: English.
3 K: English. [K05 = 8 months after return]
(4) 1 K: sangatsu-tte May to March dotchi dakke
[- Which was March. May, or March?]
2 R: March.
3 K: March?
4 R: Yeah. You're gonna move in March?
[K07 =11 months after return]
(5) 1 K: <whispers> eeto (1 sec) nawatobi-tte nan te iu n da
[= Uhm,... how do you say jump rope?]
2 R: Jump rope.
3 K: Yeah, jump rope. [K07]
Previously, when he had encountered difficulty in locating the exact word, he would
prompt himself in English or request the researcher in English as in (6) and (7).
(6) <looking for wacky things in Wacky Wednesday>
1 K: Uhm (2 sec) the gold fish is in the what. Lotion. Lotion bottle.
[K03 = 6 months after return]
(7) <from Wacky Wednesday, referring to a table leg>
1 K: Huh? The table (2 sec) what, what do you call it, legs?
2 R: Yeah. One of the legs. [K03]
Lexical retrieval difficulty also manifested as long pauses as in (8), which is also
taken from Wacky Wednesday data:
66 The Loss of English as a Second Language
(8) 1 K: And there- (5 sec) there's (6 sec)
2 R: Yeah, there's
3 K: (3 sec)
4 R: You wanna talk about this one?
5 K: Yeah.
6 R: Do you know the name for it?
7 K: denshinbashira [= utility pole]
<both laugh> [K08]
This example clearly shows that he was looking for the word pole, which was
accessible to him six months before as shown in (9), and that he was waiting for
the word to come to him.
(9) There's not the pole here. [K03]
Even though Ken started to experience trouble with immediate retrieval with some
words, they were' not completely lost. Examples (10) and (11) show that withchant-
ing and prompting, he was able to recover what was not readily available to him.
(10) 1 R: But, uh, she'll be coming soon, you said, to make guacamole.
2 K-:Uhm (2 sec) in (2 sec) <whispers> gogatsu-tte nan da eeto
[= What is May? Uhm]
3 R: <chants>January
4 K: <chants> February, March, April, May.
5 R: Right.
6 K: She's coming in May. [K09]
(11)1 R: Do you know how to say this?
2 K: eeto
[= uhm]
3 R: It starts with an F
4 K: The faucet is upside down. [K08]
Tracking of Lexical Items
As shown in (8) and (9), the development of attrition of lexical items can be
observed clearly by looking at the data taken from the controlled environment of
Wacky Wednesday. Unlike spontaneous data, this type of data ensures that a cer-
tain vocabulary item indeed existed initially (i.e., acquisition confirmed through
his spontaneous use) and enables the tracking of each item over time. Quantita-
tively, there were 83 items, including objects and concepts that were possible to
keep track of in his use. In Stage 1,13 items (16%) were seemingly lost.3
Quali-
tative change can be observed in terms of how a particular situation or an item
was referred to. Table 3.2 provides examples of the change over three sessions.
It lists items that were used spontaneouslyin the third session (at six months)
and their subsequent change in the expression to refer to the same object or phe-
nomenon. It also shows the strategies Ken used to compensate for the difficulty
The First Stage of Second LanguageAttrition 67
Table 3.2. Examples of Lexical Attrition
No. 3
(6 Months)
pole
driver's seat
leg
sideways
piled
No. 8
(12 Months)
denshinbashira
[switching]
[avoidance]
feet, foot
sideway
going up
[paraphrase]
No. 12
(17Months)
stand
[approximation]
untenseki ga aru tte
(= How do you say there is a driver's seat?)
[direct request inL1]
foot
wrong
[paraphrase]
this way
[diexis]
Notes: Compensatory strategiesare given in [ ].
Japanese utterances are given in italics.
in lexical retrieval: codeswitching, approximation, avoidance, direct request in
L1, and paraphrase. All of these strategies are very much in common with those
cited in L2 acquisition (e.g., Faerch & Kasper 1983), L2 attrition (e.g., Olshtain
1989), and L1 attrition (e.g., Turian & Altenberg 1991) studies. In addition, Ken
frequently used deixis when the word was not available to him, as in (12). To
express three houses being piled up, he said:
(12) The three houses. Uh, has to be (7 sec) doesn't belong this way.
<points upward> [K12]
In short, Ken's attrition in productive lexicon was evident in Stage 1. His lexical
retrieval difficulty manifested in various aspects, including long pauses,
codeswitching, and employment of other compensatory strategies.
Fluency
In parallel with codeswitching and lexical attrition, there was a change in Ken's
fluency. Indications of his nonfluency were abundant in spontaneous speech
starting at the eighth month. However, to obtain more tangible evidence of attri-
tion in fluency, quantitative data from the storytelling sessions are provided
below.
Pauses, repetitions, and self-repairs were selected as features manifesting his
nonfluency. Table 3.3 lists the number of occurrences of pauses, repetitions, and
self-repairs as well as the total length of pauses in seconds. The figures are based
on the data taken at nine months, thirteen months and seventeen months from
the storytelling task using A Boy, A Dog, A Frog and A Friend. Since the total
number of words for each storytelling was of course not the same, the number of
occurrences was converted to a percentage figure showing how many times or
how many seconds he paused or made repetitions per 100 words.
T
Table 3.3. Deterioration of Fluency
Storytelling Features
Pauses:
Sec.
No.
No. 6
(9 Months)
23.0%
6.6%
Session
No. 9
(13Months)
24.0%
8.6%
No. 12
(17 Months)
40.0%
10.5%
No. of repetitions
Self-repairs:
Specific no.
No. of wrongwords
2.9% 3.0%
As the table shows, except for the difference between nine months and thirteen
months for the total length of pauses, Ken progressively paused more and
paused longer each time. He also made more repetitions as time progressed. For
self-repairs, not only the number of instances but also the nature of each repair
was examined. At nine months, all of his repairs were instances of making the
statement more specific or accurate; for instance,
(13) the turtle was (2 sec) the boy thought the turtle was dead. [K06]
On the other hand, at 13 months and 17 months his repairs were mainly for the
instances where he made a wrong choice of word as in (14), or where he made a
change in the sentence structure (false start) as in (15).
(14) his right hand, right, right foot [K09]
(15) the boy (1 sec) was trying, when the boy (1 sec) was trying to (2 sec)
put the fishing pole [K09]
Also, his repairs were sometimes unsuccessful, as in (16).
(16) and the dog (2 sec) were, and the tur- and s- the thing that (he)
the thing (3 sec) the thing (2 sec) that pulled (he) the dog's tail
and the dog (2 sec) got in-to the water, [K09]
In sum, Ken's fluency as defined by pauses, repetitions, and self-repairs deterio-
rated progressively.
Morphological Attrition
Compared to the attrition of productive lexicon and fluency, attrition of morphology
was less evident. The grammatical morphemes examined were regular plural,
1.6%
0
0 2
0 6 1
T
h
e
L
o
s
s
o
f
E
n
g
l
i
s
h
a
s
a
s
e
c
o
n
d
L
a
n
g
u
a
g
e
4
The First Stage of Second Language Attrition 69
third-person singular, progressive, auxiliary (both singular and plural), copula
(both singular and plural), possessive, regular past, and irregular past. The BSM
data and spontaneous speech data elicited at the initial data gathering session
(two months) served as the baseline of Ken's performance (i.e., acquisition).
"Acquisition" was operationally defined as supplying the morphemes 90% of
the time or more in obligatory contexts. At the first session at two monthsKen
had attained the criteria for all of the above morphemes (as shown on Tables 3.4
and 3.5).
The BSM data elicited subsequently at 9 months and 16 months showed that
all of these morphemes were supplied 100% of the time for each obligatory con-
text except for one time when he missed the plural for nose at 16 months (see
Table 3.4). The spontaneous speech data, on the other hand, revealed that the
plural and the irregular past dropped to less than 90% at 13 months and 17
months (see Table 3.5). Even so, these morphemes were supplied over 80%,
which is the criterion some researchers use in L2 acquisition (Ellis 1994; Huebner
1983).The storytelling data supplement the BSM and spontaneous speech data
where the number of occasions was small or particular morphemes were not
elicited. These data show a similar pattern (see Table 3.6). However, a drop from
100% level at 13 months to 69% at 19 months for the irregular past may call for
a more detailed analysis. There were three irregular verbs that were correctly
used at 13 months but incorrectly used at 19 months: make, take, and bite. In
other words, for these verbs, attrition, not nonacquisition, could be confirmed.
At 19 months, make occurred twice. For both times the zero morph was used.
Take occurred six times altogether. Of those six times, the irregular past was
supplied four times, while the zero morph was used for the other two occasions.
Bite occurred twice. For one occasion, the -ed form was used and for the other,
the correct irregular form was used. It appears that the supply of the correct form
had become rather unstable around the end of Stage 1.
Qualitatively, in the spontaneous speech data, Ken's self-repair of irregular
verbs could be observed. Example (17) observed at 13 months, and (18), at 19
months, show these repairs.
Table 3.4. Accuracy of Morphemes BSM-Data
Plural
Third person
Progressive
Auxiliary
Copula
Possessive
Regular past
No. 1
(2 Months)
100(11/11)
100 (2/2)
100(11/11)
100(10/10)
100(11/11)
100 (2/2)
100(1/1)
Session
No. 6
(9 Months)
100 (7/7)
100(1/1)
100(6/6)
100 (6/6)
100 (9/9)
100(1/1)
No. 11
(16 Months)
86 (6/7)
100(1/1)
100 (5/5)
100(6/6)
100 (6/6)
100(3/3)
100(2/2)
Irregular past 100(3/3) 100(4/4) 100(3/3)
70 The Loss of English as a Second Language
Table 3.5. Accuracy of MorphemesSpontaneous Data
Plural
Third person
Progressive
Auxiliary
Copula
Possessive
Regular past
Irregular past
No.l
(2 Months)
100(16/16)
100 (6/6)
100 (47/47)
100 (4/4)
100(5/5)
100 (27/27)
Session
No. 9
(13 Months)
83(15/18)
100(1/1)
100(9/9)
100(10/10)
100(18/18)
100(6/6)
89(8//9)
No. 1
(17 Months)
80(16/20)
100 (4/4)
100 (4/4)
100 (42/42)
100(2/2)
86(19/22)
Note: A dash shows a structure was not elicited.
(18) There's two boys come, came from America or something. [Kl3]
In brief, although morpheme attrition was not as evident as lexical attrition, irregular
past and plural had started to show possible signs of instability by the end of Stage 1.
Syntactic Attrition
In the area of syntax, there was even less evidence to claim that attrition took
place. Word order and other frequently studied structures in acquisition research
such as negatives and interrogatives were all unaffected.
However, a glimpse of indication was found in the relative clause structure.
The baseline data of spontaneous speech at two months showed that he had
acquired the relative pronouns: He spontaneously used the relative clause structure
six times, and the relative pronouns were supplied 100% of the time for all those
occasions. Examples of his spontaneous use are given in (19) and (20).
Table 3.6. Accuracy of MorphemesStorytelling Data
Plural
Third person
Progressive
Auxiliary
Copula
Possessive
Regular Past
Irregular past
No. 6
(9 Months)


100 (3/3)
100 (3/3)
100(7/7)

100 (3/3)
100* (17/17)
Session
No. 9
(13 Months)


100 (8/8)
100 (8/8)
100(8/8)

100 (5/5)
100(16/16)
No. 13
(1 Months)


100 (3/3)
100 (3/3)
100 (7/7)

100 (6/6)
69(18/26)
Note: A dash shows a structure was not elicited.
(17) <asked what he got for his birtday>Get, got uhm,... [K09]
The First Stage of Second Language Attrition 71
(19) Roy got a cap that says Roy. [KO1]
(20) Or whatever flavor that she liked. [KO1]
Starting at around 13 months, however, a few instances of missing relative pro-
nouns could be observed:
(21) There's two boys come, came from America or something?
[K13, spontaneous speech]
(22) There was a boy, had a dog and a frog pet. [K09, storytelling]
These sparing instances may prove to be a prelude to a more regular pattern of
attrition.
Receptive Lexicon
A very clear case of nonattrition was the receptive lexicon. Ken's receptive skill
was virtually unaffected within Stage 1.As shown in Table 3.7, Ken's raw score
on the PPVT was 101 at the start (i.e., two months after his return). At 12
months he scored 101 again, and at 17 months he scored 105. In light of the def-
inite lexical retrieval difficulty Ken was undergoing, the differential attrition of
productive versus receptive skills in the lexicon was evident.
Phonological Attrition
Another unaffected area was Ken's phonological skills. There were very few
instances of phonological problems, the entire list short enough to be given in
Table 3.8. The first item is a performance type of mistake, in as much as all
other instances of / / were pronounced correctly. Interestingly, the other items
are all loan words in Japanese, and therefore the mistakes possibly reflect cases
of phonological transfer. It should be noted, however, that since there was no
baseline information for these three items, they may simply be cases of nonac-
quisition.
Table 3.7. Receptive VocabularyPPVT Scores
Score
No.l
(2 Months)
101
Session
No. 8
(12 Months)
101
No. 12
(17 Months)
10
72 The Loss of English as a Second Language
Table 3.8. Phonological Problems
Session
No. 9
(13Months)
No. 12
(17 Months)
Item
then
model
hotel
cottage
Pronunciation
/zen/
/m del/
/houtel/
/kouted/
Individual Differences
In order to examine whether Ken's pattern of attrition reflect individual differ-
ences, two other returnees with backgrounds and experiences similar to Ken's
will be introduced briefly here for comparison. The returnees, Eugene and Lily,
were also involved in the author's investigation on L2 attrition (see Tomiyama
1994). They are siblings and moved to Connecticut at the age of 5;8 and 2;8 and
returned home when they were 10;0 and 7;0, respectively. Eugene is an active,
outgoing, and sociable child, whereas Lily is a bit shy and cautious but
extremely mature for her age.
Their overall attrition process showed much the same pattern. Productive lex-
icon, morphology, syntax, and receptive lexicon were differentially affected.
Lexical retrieval difficulty and its consequences for fluency were similar for
both. Eugene's codeswitching pattern and timing were similar to Ken's,
although perhaps Eugene's progression was a bit swifter and more condensed.
Eugene's attrition of morphology and syntax were even less evident than Ken's.
The biggest individual difference could be found in Lily's data with respect
to codeswitching. Ken and Eugene used the strategy of codeswitching to com-
pensate for their attrited productive vocabulary. On the other hand, Lily did not
revert to L1; instead, she used a strategy of waiting. In other words, very long
pauses could be found in her data around the same time when instances of
codeswitching appeared in the boys' data. Example (23) is taken from the spon-
taneous speech data showing Lily's long pauses at six months.
(23) 1 R: What do you do? If I, you and I are going to play this game.
2 L: Youjust (11 sec)
3 R: Yeah.
4 L: (2 sec) Like (2 sec) I was it and I tag you (3 sec) then somebody
uhm (2 sec) tags you then you're free. [A04]
Other data from Wacky Wednesday also showed a number of instances where
she became silent due to lexical difficulty. On the other hand, in the data from as
late as 16 months no instances of codeswitching could be found. She never
reverted to using L1 unless the researcher directly asked her to switch to
Japanese. Moreover, there was a difference in the manifestationsof nonfluency.
Naturally, the manifestationof Lily's nonfluency was most evident in an increase
The First Stage of Second Language Attrition 73
in pauses. On the other hand, Eugene's nonfluency became conspicuous in terms
of repetitions. The following is a typical example of Eugene's repetition from
the spontaneous speech data.
(24) 1 E: You can't go to the uhm, you can't go to the uh, you can't go to,
the, let's say there's like uhm, a problem, but you can't go to the
problem first, because you have to, there's like a story and you
have to read a long story,
2 R: Mmhm.
3 E: and then you have to, uhm, answer
4 R: Yeah, the questions? [A04]
Differences in the use of compensatory strategies may have come from their dif-
ferences in personal style. As mentioned above, Lily is a very cautious child.
She aims at perfect utterance every time, no matter how long it takes, and there
is both hesitation on her part to ask for assistance and a strong inhibition against
using L1. In speech performance, this translates to her being a "pauser" and a
"noncodeswitcher." On the other hand, Eugene will utter whatever comes to his
mind first, however imperfect the sentences may be. This makes him a
"repeater," and since there is no strong inhibition on his part against using L1,
he codeswitches.
Lily's sense of inhibition against using L1 combined with her desire to pro-
duce perfect utterances and to provide accurate information also manifested
itself as frequent employment of the avoidance strategy. Compared with the
boys' utterances, Lily's response was abundantwith "I don't know" and "I for-
got" routines. She often used these expressions to avoid facing the task of ver-
balizing in L2. The following examples illustrating this are all from the same
session dealing with the topic, her favoritethings.
(25) 1 R: What was your favorite cartoon in America?
2 L: I don't know.
3 R: You don't know? You didn't watch cartoons at all?
4 L: Yeah, I did, but I liked them all.
5 R: You liked them all? What kinds of cartoons did y u watch. Do
you remember?
6 L: (6 sec) BugsBunny.
7 R: What about Disney ones. Disney cartoons? Donald Duck?
Mickey Mouse?
8 L: I forgot?
9 I
10 R: What's your favorite okazu? (= dish).
11 L: (9 sec) I don't know. [A04]
In sum, the overall progression of attrition for the three children was very similar.
However, the surface realizations of attrition, their choices of compensatory
strategies in particular, were sometimes different, reflectingtheir personal styles.
74 The Loss of English as a Second Language
Discussion
Differential Attrition of Subskills
It was observed that different linguistic skills (i.e., phonology, lexicon, morphol-
ogy, and syntax) were not affected in the same way by the attrition process. For
Ken, attrition first manifested as lexical retrieval difficulty. Some indications of
attrition in morphology and syntax were present, but phonology and receptive
lexicon remained quite robust throughout the course of the observation.
Kaufman & Aronoff (1991) report a similar pattern. They studied longitudi-
nally the process of a young child's L1 (Hebrew) attrition in the L2 (English)
environment. The subject's productive lexicon was affected initially, but syntax
was unaffected. This stage was followed by a disintegration of morphosyntax.
On the other hand, Kuhberg (1992) reveals a different pattern in his longitudi-
nal L2 attrition research. From two Turkish children's German attrition data, he
found that the morphemic level was affected first. It was only from the second
stage onward that the lexicon was negatively affected. The fact that syntax (in
terms of word order rules) was intact is the same as in the present study. Studies
concerning the attrition of a school-learned foreign language by adults, such as
those by Moorcroft & Gardner (1987) (L1 English, L2 French) and Weltens et al.
(1989) (L1 Dutch, L2 French) report the same pattern as Kuhberg's study.
In her literature review, Yoshitomi (1992) relates the differential order among
the subskills to the subjects' initial proficiency level. She summarizes that more
proficient students lose more vocabulary than grammar, while the pattern is
reversed in less proficient students. This is because advanced students have a
relatively stable knowledge of grammar and a larger amount of lexical knowl-
edge. She also adds that in L1 attrition, lexicon is affected more than grammar.
This attests to the assumption that the more stable the knowledge, the better it is
retained, because native speakers presumably have acquired the grammar of
their L1 thoroughly.
The initial proficiency level may explain the present results and those from
the above-mentioned studies. The proficiency level of Ken was very high; he
was on par with his native-speaker peers academically and socially. It can safely
be assumed that his achievement in L2 acquisition was far more advanced than
that of students who participated in the above-mentioned studies of foreign lan-
guage attrition. Kaufman & Aronoff's subject, although very young, was "a flu-
ent speaker of Hebrew (L1), whose level paralleled that of her Hebrew speaking
peers" (1991:176).
On the other hand, Kuhberg's results cannot be sufficiently explained by the
difference in proficiency alone. His subjects' proficiency levels seem to be as
high as those of the subjects of the present study. According to Kuhberg, their
fluency, communicative competence, and syntactic patterns were almost native-
like; yet deviant morphological patterns appeared before difficulty in lexicon.
However, equating the proficiency levels of Kuhberg's subjects to the present
study's might be a risky assumption. Due to the lack of an adequate L2 profi-
ciency measure for children in each language, none of the subjects involved in
The First Stage of Second Language Attrition 75
these studies was assessed objectively by standardized tests across all skills.
Assessments such as "nativelike" and "parallel to native-speaker peers" are sub-
jective and may indeed reflect different levels of proficiency.
Other possible factors for explaining the differing results are the influence of
the language that is being lost, the influence of the dominant language used in
the environment, and the interactive effect between the two languages. Andersen
(1983), along with Weltens et al. (1989), have noted that these factors play an
important role in the attrition process. The languages involved in Kuhberg's study
were Turkish (L1) and German (L2), whereas there was a common language,
English, involved in Kaufman & Aronoff's (1991) and the present study. On the
other hand, Kaufman & Aronoff's focus was L1 attrition, whereas the present study
was focused on L2 attrition. As more cross-linguistic data become available, the
influence of these factors on the attrition process will be more precisely discerned.
Productive versus Receptive Skills
The present result supports the previous findings regarding the lag between pro-
ductive and receptive skills (Weltens 1989; Yoshitomi 1992). The subjects' pro-
ductive skill in the lexicon was first to be affected in the process as evidenced by
their lexical retrieval difficulty. On the other hand, their receptive skill was virtu-
ally unaffected throughout the observation. This is in accordance with studies
which report long-term retention of receptive vocabulary, such as those of Wel-
tens et al. (1989), Bahrick (1984), and Cohen (1989).
The Speed of Attrition
Studies based on longitudinal data are in agreement with respect to the onset of
attrition. Kuhberg (1992) reports no substantial change in any areas for five
months. Kaufman & Aronoff's study (1991) shows the first sign of attrition at
seven months. The present subject also showed little change for seven months.
The onset of attrition, therefore, is assumed to be quite similar in L2 attrition
and in L1 attrition, occurring at around six months after removal from the domi-
nant language environment.
On the other hand, the speed of attrition was more rapid for the subjects in
Kuhberg's study than for the present subject. By the 15th month, one of Kuh-
berg's subjects became ashamed of her L2, which led him to terminate the study.
The attrition of Kaufman and Aronoff's subject was also swifter. They report
that by the 12th month, the subjects' L1 verbal system started to disintegrate
with increasing unwillingness to speak in L1. At 19 months, however, Ken was
still speaking spontaneously and willingly with morphology being relatively
unaffected despite lexical retrieval difficulty and decreased fluency.
It is possible that Ken was at an "initial plateau," that is, "a period of a few
years during which skills are relatively unaffected, before attrition actually sets
in" (Weltens & Cohen 1989:130). However, this notion is based on data mostly
76 The Loss of English as a Second Language
from adults experiencing attrition of a foreign language, and whether it is appli-
cable to children losing their naturallyacquired L2 is subject to further investi-
gation. Differences in the absolute speed of attrition are likely to be attributed to
a number of interacting factors such as chronological age, initial proficiency
level, amount of use and input of attriting language, motivation, and pressure to
conform to the hosting environment, to name a few.
Fluency
Deterioration of fluency marked by slower speech, more frequent hesitations,
pauses, repetitions, and self-repairs is commonly noted as the first sign of attri-
tion in longitudinal studies, includingthe present study and Kuhberg's (1992). In
their study of child L1 (Russian) attrition, Turian & Altenberg (1991), also
report that "reduced ability to be quick and easy and expressive" was one of the
salient features when initial change was noted. Whether as a result of lexical
retrieval difficulty or morphological difficulty, loss of control in any subskill is
very likely to affect fluency, which can be achieved only through successful
coordination of well-functioning subskills.
Compensatory Strategies
Strategies for compensating for the affected skills employed by the subject were
very similar to the ones reported in L2 attrition research such as Olshtain (1989)
and Cohen (1989). In the area of L1 attrition, Turian & Altenberg (1991), also
cite similar strategies that are common to the ones observed in L2 acquisition
(e.g., Faerch & Kasper 1983). A variety of strategies, including codeswitching
(L1 based strategy4
, paraphrase, and approximation (L2-based strategy), direct
appeal (cooperative strategy) as well as avoidance (functional reduction strat-
egy) appeared in the corpus of the present data.
The result of this study, therefore, is to add another piece of evidence to sup-
port Turian & Altenberg's conclusion that "the cause of incomplete linguistic
knowledge (process of acquisition versus attrition) is not a factor in selecting the
strategies that are used to cope with the deficiency" (1991:216).
Individual Differences
Based on the data from Ken and two other returnees referred to (Eugene and
Lily), it can be assumed that the pattern of attrition is similar across individuals.
Although literature that alludes to individual differences is scarce, Kuhberg
(1992) also emphasizes the similarity of the attrition pattern that his two subjects
underwent.
A notable difference observed in this study was the choice of compensatory
strategies. To accommodate for their lexical retrieval difficulty, the boys resorted
The First Stage of Second Language Attrition 77
mainly to codeswitching, while Lily opted for avoidance. Their choice seems to
reflect their personal style and their attitudes toward facing a task. Yoshitomi
(see Chapter 4, this volume) cites personality and proficiency level as two fac-
tors influencing the choice. An individual difference that Kuhberg (1992)
observed in his study was the speed of attrition. The attrition of one of the girls
was faster, which Kuhberg attributes to the amount of pressure to give priority to
L1 and her willingness to give in to the pressure. In either case, personal vari-
ables seemed to play an important role in the entire process of attrition. The
results of Yoshitomi (see Chapter 4, this volume) as well as the present results
concur with that observation.
Affective Factors
Previous literature suggests that "very frequent and/or pragmatic-laden items
such as closed class vocabulary, idioms/fixed expressions, and interjections and
fillers (e.g., urn)" (Yoshitomi,1992:297) are immune to loss despite lack of use.
However, it was noted in this study that switching to L1 began with emotion-
laden utterances, interjections, and conversational fillers. In her own research,
Yoshitomi (see Chapter 4, this volume), also points out that contrary to what
previous research claims, these items were indeed susceptible to loss.
One possible interpretation of the present results is that these items are not
lost or even forgotten but that the subject no longer feels natural expressing
those emotions in L2. In other words, as the attrition progresses, speaking in L2
becomes much like a performance on stage, which makes him feel unnaturaland
takes much energy. Speaking in L1, on the other hand, is an off-stage natural
everyday behavior where he can feel relaxed and express his genuine emotions.
He takes a break by expressing his emotions and filling pauses in L1. Therefore,
it is precisely these emotion-laden utterances that are most appropriate and natu-
ral to be expressed in L1.
Some evidence to support these on-stage/off-stage acts can be found in the
data. Ken's conversational fillers in L1 were often uttered in a whisper or low
volume (See example [5]). When he switched to L1 for a direct appeal for a
wanted word, he also tended to whisper (see example [8]). Data from the 17th
month session revealed that 46% of conversational fillers and 55% of requests
for a word were whispered. Ken's altering of speech volume could be inter-
preted as a reflection of how he perceived the act of speaking in L2 and in L1 at
that stage of attrition. Speaking in L2 is an on-stage performance, whereas
speaking in L1 is a natural behavior.
Concluding Remarks
This study provided a brief account of the overall process of young children's
L2 attrition over a period of 19 months. The first stage of attrition could be char-
acterized by loss of fluency and codeswitching caused primarily by difficulty in
78 The Loss of English as a Second Language
lexical retrieval. Some signs of attrition in morphology and syntax were present,
but they did not yet show definite attrition patterns. Phonology and receptive
lexicon remained stable throughout the stage.
The present study also suggested directions for further investigation. Interac-
tive effects among variables on the speed, degree, and manner of attrition should
be more clearly discerned. Among the more notable variables are: languages
involved, initial proficiency level, amount of use, and personal factors such as
motivation, affect, and styles. Although age factor was not specifically
addressed in this study, chronological age and literacy, which usually parallel
age, are also significant. Classroom-oriented research, namely, application of L2
attrition findings to language maintenanceprograms and its effect, needs to be
launched.
Although limitations of case studies should be recognized, longitudinal
research is valuable in documenting the details over time as well as providing
previously unacknowledged phenomena. It is also advantageous particularly for
attrition research in which nonacquisition and attrition must be clearly distin-
guished. Further attrition research would benefit from both qualitative and quan-
titative types of data. From a larger perspective, attrition studies, in line with L1
and L2 acquisition, should continueto be recognized as a field that will help us
better understand how the human mind deals with language.
The First Stage of Second Language Attrition 79
Notes
1. The stages were divided, in retrospect, according to Ken's characteristic attri-
tion pattern of lexicon, morphology, and syntax.
2. The following symbols are used in the transcription:
downward intonation
? upwardintonation
cut off
I conversational turns omitted
(xsec) pause in seconds
pause less than one second
(xxx) transcriber unsure of wordsuttered
< > explanation of situation
[=] English translation
Underlining is used for emphasis in Japanese text.
3. These items were "seemingly" lost since some were recovered later at Stage 2. See
Tomiyama (1995) for the details of Stage 2.
4. The categorization of strategies given in parentheses are from Faerch& Kasper
(1983).
On the Loss of English as a Second Language
by Japanese Returnee Children
Asako Yoshitomi
In the last two decades, the number of Japanese families going abroad to
English-speaking countries on business has increased dramatically as a result of
the growth in the country's economy. Consequently, the number of children in
such families who spend several years during their youth exposed to a second
language (L2 English), acquiring the L2 fairly naturally,and later suffering L2
attrition after their return to Japan, has increased considerably. There is thus a
rising need in Japan to develop language maintenance programs for both the first
language (L1 Japanese) and second language (L2 English) of such children.
Knowledge about the language attrition process itself, upon which such pro-
grams should be based, is insufficient at present. Although previous research in
the field has provided tentative answers to some key issues in L2 attrition (see
Chapter 1, this volume), it is apparent that qualitative case studies that examine
the language attrition process from a more holistic perspective are lacking; that
is, studies that examine not only the linguistic aspects of language loss but also
the factors that affect the process, such as differences in personality and aptitude
as well as various developmental, psychological, cognitive, sociological, and
sociopsychological variables.
This chapter reports some of the key findings of a case study that was con-
ducted as research for a dissertation.'The case study was a preliminary attempt
to take such a holistic perspective by carefully examining the linguistic and
sociopsychological attributes of the process of L2 (English) attrition of four
Japanese returnee children from English-speaking countries. Because no com-
plete theory or model is currently available to guide researchers to "test" specific
questions, a hypothesis-generating type of approach was taken, in which the
nature of the data served to guideanalysis.2
The purpose of this chapter is twofold: (1) to verify whether some of the
main findings in the field can be supported by the data obtained in the case study
80
4
Loss of English by Japanese Returnee Children 81
on Japanese returnees; and (2) to discuss the pedagogical implications the
results may have on improving language maintenance programs in Japan.
Method
Subjects
Speech data from four female Japanese returnee children were examined.The
girls differ in age (i.e., older versus younger) and incubation period (shorter ver-
sus longer) at the time of initial data collection. A description of the subjects'
age at initial data collection, length of stay in the United States, length of incu-
bation period, and siblings are given in Table 4.1 in the Appendix.
Henceforth these subjects are referred to as JYS (Japanese girl, younger
group, shorter incubation), JYL (Japanese girl, younger group, longer incuba-
tion), JOS (Japanese girl, older group, shorter incubation), and JOL (Japanese
girl, older group, longer incubation), respectively.
The Japanese returnee children come from families of middle to upper-mid-
dle social class. They all lived in large metropolitan areas in America. Their
fathers, businessmen in a relatively large corporation, are well educated. All
mothers, except for JOL's, were graduated from a university. JOL's mother fin-
ished high school. Family size is relatively small, varyingfrom three to five. The
Japanese children and their parents were all aware that they would return to
Japan after a stay of two to five years in America. Hence, all children went to
local American schools on weekdays and attended supplementary Japanese
schools on Saturdays. After returning to Japan, they started to go to English-
maintenance classes on Saturdays, as do the majority of returnee children in
Japan. In addition, JYS and JOS attended English classes for returnees at their
regular Japanese elementary schools once a week for one hour. The children
might choose to use English in the family as well, although infrequently. Despite
the children's willingness to maintain their English skills, their opportunities to
use English are fairly limited. They will not start receiving formal English edu-
cation until they enter junior high school.
Obviously, the availability of subjects severely restrict the possible number of
individual cases that could be included in a single study.3
This study limits itself
to the analysis of four returnees for a span of one year, who were chosen because
they met the following criteria regarding sex, age, length of stay, and length of
incubation period.
Sex. To avoid possible differences attributable to sex, all subjects were female.
Age. The selection of children under age twelve was made to avoid the inclu-
sion of an additional variable that is introduced by the start of formal English
education in Japanese junior high schools.
Length of stay. The subjects were children whose lengths of stay in the
United States were three to four years. Nomoto (1973; cited in Minoura 1981)
found that for most children, English becomes the dominant language after two
to four years of stay.
82 The Loss of English as a Second Language
Incubation period. The subjects' incubation periods were either zero months
or longer than 12 months. Previous studies imply an initial "plateau" of lan-
guage loss. In other words, L2 acquirers, especially highly proficient acquirers,
resist attrition for a while even after they discontinue their use of English.
Because the study was to be conducted for only one year, linguistic samples
beyond one year of incubationcould be collected only in this manner.
Ma ials and Procedures for Data Collection
Data collection consisted of several different observation procedures in order to
collect data on different aspects of language use and to decrease the bias that
might result from the application of a single task. The five tasks that were
adopted are described below:
Free interaction. The core of the data are the free speech samples collected
through a free conversation between the subject and a native-English-speaking
examiner. The examiner initiated the conversation by laying out semiplanned
topics that were believed to be relevant and interesting to the child (e.g., school
and friends; family; English and experience with English; the future orimaginary
situations); the child was free to expand or to move to other topics of her interest.
Story description. Following the free interaction, each subject was asked to
describe stories by looking at picture books. All the picture books used include
pictures with a clear story line but no written text. The subjects described the
same two picture books (Sunshine and Frog, Where Are You?) every session and
a different third book in session two (A Boy, A Dog, A Frog, and A Friend), ses-
sion three (Frog Goes to Dinner), and session four (One Frog Too Many). This
method was adopted so that the subjects' linguistic performance on the same
two stories could be compared across sessions and so that possible practice
effects resulting from describing the same stories repeatedly could be comple-
mented by examining the subjects' performance on a new story line each session.
The child looked through the whole book once, then went back to the first
page of the book and described the story from the beginning at her own pace.
When she was finished with one book, she went on to the second book and fol-
lowed the same procedures.
Planned speech. After the story description, the subject was asked to think
about a topic that was discussed during the free interaction, expand on that topic,
and plan a short speech about it. She was given as much time as she wanted to
prepare the speech and was allowed to make notes and rehearse the speech if she
wished.
Listening comprehension. As the final English task in each session, a con-
trolled listening comprehension test was given, using Comprehensive Language
Evaluation (CYCLE) developed by Curtiss & Yamada, specially made to mea-
sure children's formal linguistic knowledge. The children's task is to select a pic-
ture out of a set that corresponds to the sentence they hear. The sentences differ
syntactically in that the only difference between two sentences, for example,
may be a single bound morpheme such as the plural noun marker -5.
Loss of English by Japanese Returnee Children 83
Interview and questionnaire. Finally, interviews were conducted in Japanese
between the researcher and the child, and then between the researcher and the
parents, respectively. The aim was to obtain supplementary information on
socioeconomic, educational, sociopsychological (i.e., motivational and attitudi-
nal), and personality factors both from the returnees themselves and from their
parents as second-party observers.
Parental interviews were based on the replies they gave on a questionnaire
they filled out while the data were collected. Questions included those that asked
the parents to rate their children's English abilities as well as their own, to
describe their child's personality, and to report on how frequently their child
uses English and what kind of attitude they and their child have toward the use
and maintenance of the English language. The children were also interviewedin
Japanese and asked to self-evaluate their English language skills and to answer
questions concerning their L2 use in general, their attitudes towardmaintaining
and using English, and their motivational intensity as to how much they are will-
ing to retain their English skills.
All tasks except for the interviews were conducted by a female native-
English speaker in English. Each session was approximately 150-180 minutes
long and was videotaped. The interviews with the children and their parents
were administered by the researcher in Japanese at the end of each data-collect-
ing session. Data were collected every three months for one year, resulting in a
total of four data sets for each subject. The first data sets obtained from the two
returnees with shorter incubation periods (i.e., JYS and JOS) were collected
within one month after their return to Japan. Hence these sets of data were con-
sidered baseline data, where the attrition process started. The other sets of data
obtained from the two returnees with shorter incubation periods and all data
obtained from the two returnees with longer incubation periods (i.e., JYL and
JOL) were thus compared with the baseline data.4
Data Analysis
All speech samples collected through production tasks in English (i.e., free
interaction, story description, and planned speech) were transcribed and ana-
lyzed by the use of the Codes for the Human Analysis of Transcript (CHAT)
transcription and coding format and Computerized Language Analysis package
of analysis programs developed by Brian MacWhinney and his colleagues
(MacWhinney 1991). The returnees' English speech data were analyzed in terms
of accuracy and fluency. Accuracy was assessed in terms of measurements (A)
through (H), fluency was assessed in terms of measurements listed in (I), and
supplementary data for interpreting the speech data were collected through mea-
surement (J), respectively listed below:
A. Scores of CYCLE and comprehension errors or difficulties (defined here
either as the difficulty in comprehension, resulting in a query or a misun-
derstanding of what the examiner said) during free interaction.
84 The Loss of English as a Second Language
B. Production errors in phonology during free interaction and storydescription.
C. Use of verb morphology during free interaction and story description.
(The verb morphology examined included copula be, auxiliary be, simple
verbs in their base form, the third person singular -5 marker, past regular
and irregular forms of simple verbs, and modal auxiliaries. The percent-
age of contexts in which verb morphology was supplied in obligatory
contexts (%SOC) and the percentage of verb morphology used in a target-
like manner (%TLU) were calculated across the four data sets. %SOC
was calculated as the percentage of correct verb morphology supplied in
linguistic contexts in which the verb morphology is required. %TLU was
calculated as the percentage of correct forms used among the total verb
morphology).
D. Use of definite and indefinite articles during story description and planned
speech. (The %SOC and %TLU were calculated for the definite and
indefinite articles, respectively.)
E. Type-token ratio of total vocabulary and open-versus closed-class vocab-
ulary items used during free interaction and planned speech.
F. Types and frequency of communication strategies used during free inter-
action and story description. (The terminology used to discuss the use of
communication strategies was based on Tarone's [1980] classification.)
G. Use of complex syntactic structures during free interaction and story
description. (The frequency and correctness of complex structures, the
percentage of attempted complex structures among total clauses uttered,
and the percentage of successful end products as a result of the attempts
were calculated. A complex structure is defined as two or more clauses in
which one or more of the clauses is embedded in the main clause. Exam-
ples of complex structures are clauses embedded through the use of rela-
tive pronouns and subordinate conjunctions.The passive construction is
also regarded as a complex structure. Structures including subordinate
clauses introduced by "I think," "He said," and the like were excluded
because such embedding involves a mere juxtaposition of simple clauses.
Complex structures were considered deviant whenever an error was
included in any one of the clauses constituting the complex structure.
Only the end products were examined.)
H. Frequency of error-free clauses during story description and planned
speech. (Errors included all types; that is, grammatical, semantic, and lex-
ical errors. If a clause included any type of error, it was regarded as an
error clause. Only the end products were examined.)
I. Amount of speech per time unit, calculated as the average number of
words uttered per minute, and the frequency of false starts and repairs,
calculated as the average number of clauses in which one repair, false
start, or filler occurred (i.e., a repair or false start or filler occurred once in
every X number of clauses) during the story description task.5
(It was con-
sidered that the decrease in the amount of speech per time unit and/or the
increase of repairs, false starts, or fillers used was an indication of less flu-
ency.6
)
Loss of English by Japanese Returnee Children 85
Replies obtained from the interview and questionnaire. (This set of data
was used as supplementary information to guide interpretations of the
speech data and to examine aspects of the attrition process that were diffi-
cult to tap through an analysis of speech data from English tasks alone.
The children's and their parents' replies from the interview and question-
naire were tallied. These results were taken into consideration whenever
they seemed to provide useful clues to an interpretation of the children's
linguistic performance. The results of the analyzes were compared across
subjects and across tasks wherever possible).
Summary of Results
In this section, the results obtained from measurements (A) through (J) above
are briefly summarized.
Analysis of Accuracy
(A) Scores of the listening comprehension task did not render evidence of attri-
tion (see Appendix, Table 4.2). Although JOS's scores on the CYCLE test are
slightly better than those of the other three girls, the difference is not consider-
able.7
If there is any change over time at all, it is the improvement of perfor-
mance observed in JOL, JOS, and JYL.
At the same time, there were indications that CYCLE was notdiscriminative
enough to measure the returnees' loss in listening comprehension skills. Such an
interpretation finds support in the fact that difficulties and mistakes in compre-
hension were more apparent in the subjects' performance in the other linguistic
tasks, especially in the free interaction.
The number of such comprehension errors during free interaction were,
nonetheless, rare. Even JOL, who seemed to have lost English relatively
severely compared with the other returnees, did not show so many difficulties in
understanding English. When she did have difficulties,they appeared to be due
more to local errors (i.e., lack or loss of a particular vocabulary item) than to
global errors (i.e., the inability to comprehend the sentence structure as a
whole).
This result implies that English listening skills are relatively immune to attri-
tion at least for the first year of incubation, which is in accordance with the
claims made in the literature that comprehension skills are generallymaintained
better than production skills, and that there is an initial plateau of regression.
(B) In general, production errors in phonology occurred infrequently in all
four subjects' speech (see Appendix, Table 4.3). There may be a very slight
decline in productive phonological skill within the first year of incubation,
which is seen in JYS's case, but the level of skill stabilizes after the initial
regression and stays relatively intact. At least 8 among the total of 16 errors
observed in the subjects' speech appeared to be clear cases of phonological
J.
86 The Loss of English as a Second Language
errors. All of these errors seem to be influenced by the returnees' L1. Six
involved difficulty in distinguishing a number of minimal pairs that are typically
considered difficult for Japanese learners of English, including [s] versus [ ], [z]
versus [ ], [1]versus [r], and [b] versus [v]. The remaining two involved words
which, in Japanese, are loan words from English. These words were pronounced
by JOL according to the Japanese accent and mora system.
(C) Only a slight increase in errors in the returnees' use of verb morphology
was observed over the sessions during both the free interaction and the story
description (see Tables 4.4 to 4.7 in the Appendix). The result may be due to the
fact that the data for each morpheme were somewhat limited. Nonetheless, pos-
sible indications of attrition were found in all four returnees' spontaneous speech
samples, which involved an increase in the number of verbs used in their base
forms without obligatory morphological markers. The increase in errors was
generally more noticeable with subjects with longer incubation periods (i.e.,
JOL and JYL) than with those with shorter incubation periods (i.e., JOS and
JYS), suggesting that the attrition rate seems faster after an incubation period of
one or more years. Although the result suggests that syntactic skills may be
more vulnerable to loss than phonological skills, indications of English attrition
in verb morphology were generally not considerable.
(D) Although slightly more errors in the use of definite and indefinite articles
in story description and planned speech were observed toward the later sessions,
all four returnees seem to have acquired the English article system well and
retained it fairly well (see Appendix, Table 4.8). As in the case of verb morphol-
ogy, it was found that attrition was more clearly evidenced by the difference
between returnees with shorter and longer incubation periods than by the differ-
ence observed over time. In other words, if there were any decline in the
returnees' ability to use articles at all, it occurred before the data collection
started while the returnees (i.e., JYL and JOL) virtually had no opportunities to
interact with a native speaker on an individual basis.
(E) Type-token ratio of open versus closed class vocabulary used during free
interaction, and planned speech did not indicate clear evidence of attrition (see
Appendix, Table 4.9). Although the ratio of open-class vocabulary items in the
speech of the returnees with longer incubation periods tended to decrease
slightly, the overall use of the vocabulary items did not provide any clear evi-
dence of attrition. Differences were observed more between the returnees with
shorter versus longer incubation periods than over time, suggesting again that
the returnees were able to maintain vocabulary more or less over the data collec-
tion sessions during which they had the chance to interact with a native speaker
of English.
Lexical errors in terms of word choice were occasionally observed in the
returnees' speech. Most frequent were lexical errors where short, simple verbs
were overgeneralized to cover a wide variety of verb meanings, and where
incorrect word choice was made either in terms of verb transitivity or parts of
speech. Incorrect selection of anaphora was also observed. More Japanese
expressions (mainly nouns and interjections) were found to be mixed in the free
interaction toward the latter data-collecting sessions.
Loss of English by Japanese Returnee Children 87
(F) There were some noticeable differences in the use of communication
strategies due to levels of English proficiency (see Appendix, Tables 4.10 and
4.11). JOS, the returnee who seemed to retain the highest English proficiency,had
little need to rely on communication strategies. The other returnees increasingly
made use of communication strategies over time, reflecting their decreasing
accessibility to lexical items. In general, the less proficient, the more the use of
communication strategies was observed. The returnees increasingly had to use
paraphrase, namely approximation, word coinage, and circumlocution or exhibit
progressive retrieval in order to convey their messages. They began to mix more
Japanese in spontaneous speech over time as well. As attrition became severe, as
in JOL's case, different types of communication strategies, such as the use of the
L1, nonverbal appeals for assistance, explicit requests for help, and avoidance
became dominant. Apparently, with further attrition, the ability to compensate
for lost vocabulary items starts to erode as well.
(G) The percentage of attempts to use a complex structure among total
clauses increased with JOS and JYL, decreased with JYS, and stayed more or
less the same with JOL (see Appendix, Table 4.12). While JOS and JYL
attempted more frequently to use complex structures over time, their success
rate tended to decrease. A clear decline in the success rate was observed with
JYS as well. In contrast, the success rate of JOL's attempts to use complex struc-
tures increased over time, but the frequency of her attempts was low compared
with that of the other returnees. The result suggests that in terms of the ability to
use complex structures in spontaneous speech, all the returnees except for JOL
regressed over time. JOL perhaps had already declined in her ability to use com-
plex structures before the data collection started, and she actually benefited from
the data collection by having the opportunity to use knowledge that was becom-
ing difficult to access.
This measure revealed a clearer case of regression in the returnees' syntactic
skill than did the assessment of their ability to use verb morphology or articles. It
should be noted that the measurement of embedded clauses differs from the other
two in that the assessment of the returnees' ability to use verb morphology and
articles involve only one subsystem of their syntactic skill. In the assessment of
their ability to use complex structures, however, the returnees' ability to use vari-
ous subsystems, including the use of subordinate conjunctions, relative pro-
nouns, passive constructions, and other grammatical structures is combined.
(H) Frequency of error-free clauses during story description and planned
speech revealed more evidence of loss. All the subjects declined to some degree
in their accuracy in using English in that the percentage of error-free clauses
among the total number of clauses uttered generally decreased over time (see
Appendix, Table 4.13). The decline was larger with returnees with longer incu-
bation periods. Especially with JOL, almost every clause included some kind of
grammatical error in the story description task. As already observed in the other
measurements of accuracy, such as the use of verb morphology and articles, the
difference between the returnees with shorter incubationperiods and those with
longer incubation periods was larger than the difference across the four data
collecting sessions.
88 The Loss of English as a Second Language
Analysis of Fluency
(I) The amount of speech per time unit decreased only in JYS's speech. In the
other three returnees' speech, the amount of speech per time unit either stayed
approximately constant or even increased, as in JOL's and JYL's cases (see
Appendix, Table 4.14). In terms of the amount of speech per time unit, therefore,
no attrition was observed. When the amount of speech per time unit was com-
pared among the returnees, however, the returnees with shorter incubation peri-
ods again spoke more than the returnees with longer incubation periods.
The average number of clauses per filler exhibited no attrition, but rather
showed improvement over time. In JOS's and JYL's cases in particular, the aver-
age number of clauses per filler increased considerably. This, together with the
finding that the amount of speech per time unit increased in JYL's speech,
implies that not only did JYL speak faster, but she also used fillers much less
frequently in her speech over time.
The only measurements that indicated possible signs of attrition were the
average number of clauses per repair and the average number of clauses per
false start. The average number of clauses per repair decreased for JOS and JYS,
whereas the average number of clauses per false start decreased for JOL and
JYS. In other words, all the returnees except for JYL exhibited a small degree of
regression in fluency, in that the frequency of repairs or false starts in their
speech increased over time. While the returnees produced approximately the
same amount of speech over the sessions, the content of their speech came to
include an increasing number of repairs or false starts. As for JYL, all four mea-
sures of fluency indicate improvement of performance, contrary to the predic-
tion that all returnees would exhibit some indication of decreased fluency in
English. As will be mentioned in result (J) below, JYL's personality and attitude
may have had positive effects on her maintenance(or even improvement) of her
fluency in English.
Replies to the Interview and Questionnaire
(J) Replies to the interview and questionnaire showed that all returnees wish to
maintain their English skills more or less but self-evaluate loss especially in
vocabulary. Despite some loss in vocabulary, the returnees reported using para-
phrase or circumlocution to compensate for such lack of ability. The use of such
strategy may camouflage lexical loss to a certain extent.
There were differences in the returnees' use of vocabulary due to the
returnees' personalities, in that the more talkative returnees produced more types
and tokens of vocabulary items and seemed to benefit more from planning. Per-
sonality seems to be involved in the use of communication strategies as well.
The more talkative returnees used paraphrase and progressive retrieval much
more frequently than transfer or avoidance, whereas the less talkative returnees
resorted more to transfer and avoidance than paraphrase and progressive
retrieval.
Loss of English by Japanese Returnee Children 89
JYL is a risk taker who used the largest number and the widest variety of
communication strategies most frequently among the four subjects. She seems
to have high communicative competence, being able to convey her intended
messages effectively despite considerable regression in accuracy over time. She
is talkative and fluent and shows the strongest motivation to retain her L2. Her
attitude toward the data-collecting sessions was highly positive.
JOL, on the other hand, seems to be a non-risk taker and aborted messages
even when she had little need to resort to strategies to express her ideas. She is
social, but her command of L2 has declined to the extent that her ability to com-
municate effectively has become severely limited. Her attitude toward data col-
lection was positive but not particularly active.
JYS is talkative and fluent. JYS, together with JYL, offered a large amount of
speech data in most tasks. JYS in general seems more proficient than JYL, pos-
sibly reflecting the difference in the length of incubationperiods. JYS's person-
ality seems to resemble JOS's in terms of extroversion, strong motivation, and
favorable attitude toward the data-collecting experience.
JOS is the fluent but quiet girl who seems to take few risks if any. In general,
JOS's speech data were usually smaller in quantity,making it difficult to inter-
pret her language ability. The questionnairereveals that she is less outgoing than
the other three returnees. She was also the only subject who was unwillingto
experience the same kind of data-collecting sessions she experienced in this
study in the future. This, together with the fact that the limited speech she
offered was generally more normative than the other returnees, suggests that the
quantity of JOS's speech may be limited, not because of lack of ability or attri-
tion, but because of her quiet personality and rather negative attitude toward the
data-collecting experience.
It seems there is not one type of personality in particular that is strongly
linked to better retention of English proficiency. It does seem that extroverts
with positive attitude toward the situation of language use are better in commu-
nication and are willing to make the most out of the opportunities to use
English. Such willingness, in turn, appears to have positive effects on language
retention.
According to the replies to the questionnaire, the returnees parents attribute
the biggest cause of their children's loss in English skills to the disuse or rare
use of English in everyday life. All returnees reported that they scarcely use any
English in their daily lives other than at language maintenance schools or during
supplementary English activities at school, adding up to a maximum of three
hours of contact with English per week, among which less than thirty minutes is
spent on one-to-one interaction in English. Parents support their children's wish
to maintain English, and were glad that the data collection sessions offered their
children an opportunity to use English. Despite such positive attitude towards
English use and retention, they mostly do not tell their children to make any spe-
cific kind of effort. In general, the returnees express their willingness to retain
their English abilities, but seem to make little "real" effort other than reading
English books once in a while.
90 The Loss of English as a Second Language
Discussion
Since limit in space does not allow for a detailed discussion of all the results
summarized above, I will restrict myself to discussing what I consider the most
important findings of the case study. Put very simply, the results can be further
reduced to the following three points:
(A) The returnees exhibited little language attrition over the data collection
sessions. Although high retention in phonological skills was predicted, the reten-
tion observed in the returnees' ability to use other language subskills in produc-
tion, including verb morphology, articles, and lexicon was better than expected.
(B) Indications of language attrition were more evident in the regression in
the returnees' ability to combine the language subskills. The returnees made
more errors in their use of complex structures and produced less error-free
clauses over the sessions. More subtle indications of loss were exhibited in
terms of their decrease in fluency and the change in their use of communication
strategies.
(C) Language attrition seemed to have taken place while the returnees had lit-
tle or no opportunities to interact with a native speaker on an individual basis.
The returnees with longer incubationperiods seemed to have lost more during
the period before data collection than over the data collection sessions despite
the overall- increase in incubation period. Similarly, the returnees with shorter
incubation periods seemed to have lost less over the data-collecting sessions
than the returnees with longer incubation periods did during their first year of
incubation.
Assuming that JOL and JYL had roughly the same level of English profi-
ciency as JOS and JYS when they left the United States, we can say that JOS
and JYS did not lose as much of their English proficiency as JOL and JYL did
during the first year of their incubation periods. There are at least three possible
reasons for this finding.
One is that the assumption itself is wrong; that is, JOL and JYL were never as
proficient as JOS and JYS: They started out at a lower level. The second possi-
ble reason is that it would take a few more months for JOS's and JYS's English
to erode to a level equivalent to JOL's and JYL's English at session one. Data
collection started when the incubation periods of JOL and JYL were 15 months
and 13 months, respectively. In the cases of JOS and JYS, less than one full year
had passed since their return to Japan at the time of session four. Hence attrition
might have been more evident if data were collected from the returnees for a
longer period of time. Perhaps JOS's and JYS's English would have eventually
eroded to the level equivalent to JOL's or JYL's. The third possible reason is that
the very act of collecting English speech data from these returnees gave them
the opportunity to use English, and therefore helped them to maintain their
English skills to a certain degree. Although all four returnees attend English
maintenance schools on Saturdays, they rarely have a chance to speak with a
native speaker on a one-to-one basis in their daily lives. Hence the chance pro-
vided by the data collection, although only once every three months, may have
affected the rate or amount of language attrition. This may account for the fact
Loss of English by Japanese Returnee Children 91
that JOS and JYS did not lose as much of their English proficiency as JOL and
JYL within the one-year incubation period.
The third reason is the most probable. This I base on my experience of having
dealt with more than 100 returnee children in the JOSEF project (See Nakazawa
[1989 a,b]; Nakazawa & Yoshitomi [1990]; Seya [1990]; Yoshida & Arai
[1989]; and Yoshida et al. [1990] for detail), knowing more than 60 friends who
are returnees, having taught nearly 300 university students who are returnees,
and being a returnee myself. Three of four returnees reported that they became
more motivated to maintain their English after data collection started. Especially
for the two returnees with longer incubation periods, the initial data collection
made them realize how much English proficiency they had lost. Although they
thought they had a basic idea of how much English had already been lost during
the incubation periods, by talking to a native speaker they discovered that they
had lost more than they had initially thought. Such a "shock" may have trig-
gered them to think more seriously about making efforts to maintain their
English. This reaction appeared to apply especially in the case of JYL, who
started reading more books in English and joined an English pen pal club after
the data collection started. In fact, JYL's loss is relatively small, given the fact
that her incubation period was more than 13 months at session one.
Indications of positive consequences of the data collection process were also
observed in the slight improvement of productive phonology by JOL, the
increase in JOL's success rate in attempting to use complex structures, the
increase of the frequency of attempts to use complex structures observed with
JOS and JYL, and some improvement in fluency measures seen in the form of
increase in the amount of speech per time in JOL and JYL's cases, and the
decrease of frequency in using fillers in JOS and JYL's cases. Again, my inter-
pretation is that the difference between the returnees with shorter incubation
periods and those with longer incubation periods represents the "real" attrition
that possibly occurs within approximately one year of incubation,and it appears
that the relatively small amount of regression or improvement unexpectedly
exhibited by the returnees was a consequence of the practice offered by the data-
collection process itself.
What is lost, then? What should be noted is that when the returnees' lexical
skills or particular subsystems of syntactic skills, such as their use of verb mor-
phology and articles, are examined, attrition is exhibited only slightly; but when
error rates are calculated all together, attrition becomes much more evident. This
finding suggests that although the regression in the individual subskills of
English is not considerable, the small degree of regression in various parts of
their linguistic skills has a cumulative effect on the returnees' overall linguistic
performance. As a result, their increased difficulty in producing in English only
becomes evident when they face a situation in which they must coordinate all
their subskills simultaneously and spontaneously. Such difficulty can be "mea-
sured" only when their overall linguistic performance is examined rather than
their ability to use individual skills or subsystems. Perhaps what is being lost
initially is their ability to coordinate all the linguisticskills rather than their abil-
ity to use the linguistic elements within a particular linguistic subskill.
92 The Loss of English as a Second Language
Such finding suggests a potential danger in measuring the returnees' sub-
skills as a means of assessing their overall linguistic proficiency; by doing so,
the general regression is overlooked, and thus the returnees are judged to have
lost very little of their English proficiency, when actually their linguistic
knowledge is gradually but surely eroding. The fact that most returnees seem
optimistic in their estimation of their English loss may also be due to the same
reason. When asked to work on a listening comprehension task, they perform
well. When their grammatical performance is assessed, they show little regres-
sion. When their vocabulary skill is investigated, only a limited degree of
decreased accessibility can be detected. Both the examiner and the returnees
conclude from the returnees' performance that attrition is not severe. But by
the time their attrition can be observed clearly in terms of measurements on
individual sub-skills, the returnees have lost a considerable amount of English
proficiency.
It should also be noticed that much of what may be affected first in the pro-
cess of attrition is not easily assessable in terms of common linguistic mea-
sures. For example, the returnees may not be able to remember a specific lexi-
cal item in a given situation. They might resort to a communication strategy
such as paraphrase or they may avoid using the item, in which cases the
returnees' strategy is not necessarily detectable, especially when the degree of
attrition is slight and the returnees are able to use the strategies effectively. The
returnees may pause more than they used to, but their interlocutor may judge
that they are merely thinkingof what to say and not how to say something. The
returnees may also decide to say only what they are able to say and not risk
attempting to say other things. As a result, their speech production will render
few errors and few pauses, and they are judged as being quiet or shy, rather
than having lost the ability or confidence to use English. Their decreased confi-
dence may show up in terms of sentence stress and intonation, but not in terms
of the actual linguistic forms used in their speech. In all the examples given
above, the returnees are the only ones who are aware, at least subconsciously,
of their attrition. That such a phenomenon commonly exists is evident by the
fact that many returnees, especially adults, report a sense of insecurity or lack
of confidence in using English when native English speakers who know them
say their English is "perfect." The returnees' self-evaluation is often consid-
ered a reflection of their modesty, when in fact what they are reporting is their
attrition.
Lack of fluency in turn discourages the returnees from forcing themselves to
practice for fear of feeling embarrassed by making mistakes or pausing in search
of an expression that they know they used to have in their linguistic knowledge
but which has become inaccessible or difficult to access. Especially in a linguis-
tic environment where the returnees almost never have the need to use English,
the effect of such fear could virtually deprive the returnees of what few opportu-
nities remain in their daily lives to use English. Eventually, decreased accessibil-
ity would result in complete loss. It is only at that point or at the point at which
accessibility has become noticeably low that the regression shows up in terms of
a linguistic measurement of English subskills.
Loss of English by Japanese Returnee Children 93
Conclusion
In conclusion, I would like to return to the research topics raised at the begin-
ning of this chapter, namely: (1) Can the main findings in the field be supported
by the data obtained in the case study on Japanese returnees; and (2) What are
the pedagogical implications of the case study on improving language mainte-
nance programs in Japan?
In order to provide the answer for the first question, I need to clearly state my
beliefs as to how language attrition takes place. As stated in Yoshitomi (1992), I
support the concept that language knowledge is regarded as consisting of the
connections and associations of information (Schumann 1990; Jacobs & Schu-
mann 1992). According to this view, a regression in one part of the connection
or association would definitely affect other parts. In this sense, attrition is least
likely to take place in an isolated portion of knowledge. Particular groups or
subsystems of connections certainly may be affected more, or earlier, than oth-
ers, but language is a multimodal system in which no one subsystem can be used
in total disconnection with others. This is why it is virtually impossible to single
out a particular subskill of language and examine it, much less regard the result
of a measurement assessing particular subskills to reflect the actual language
proficiency of the language learners.
I consider the result of the present case study to be insightful in that it pre-
cisely illuminates the point that language attrition initially occurs as accumula-
tive effects of erosion in various subsystems of the returnees' linguisticknowl-
edge. The study found that it is only through an examination of the speakers'
ability to utilize and to coordinate their linguisticknowledge fully and to pro-
duce the most effective and expressive linguistic forms and structures in sponta-
neous speech that their regression is likely to be accurately measured, especially
in the early stages of attrition. These initial stages, in which erosion reveals itself
only in the form of accumulative defects, are commonly overlooked in language
attrition studies. I believe, however, that it is precisely the coordinative language
ability that should be measured if one wishes to accurately assess the language pro-
ficiency of language learners and attriters. Unfortunately, a reliable measure is
yet to be developed.
In light of this view toward language attrition and based on the result
obtained in the present case study, I maintain that previous studies offering some
answers to the questions raised in the field (see the introductory chapter of this
volume) call for reinterpretation. Here I would like to focus on four claims made
in the field; namely, the loss of one type of skill over another, the regression
hypothesis, the existence of an initial plateau, and the occurrence of residual
learning.
First, previous findings in the field suggest that loss in production skills
occurs faster and to a greater extent than in receptive skills. What the literature
shows, however, may be that when the returnees' English proficiency does erode
to the extent that it is measurable, it is in the assessments of production skills
that the regression first becomes more evident. Most probably, productive skills
are more vulnerablethan receptive skills.What must not be overlooked, however,
94 The Loss of English as a Second Language
is that the receptive skills, although not necessarily measurable in terms of indi-
vidual assessments, erode simultaneously. Perhaps defects in productive skills
are merely easier to detect than defects in receptive skills. Obviously, production
calls for much more planning and coordination on the speaker's side than does
comprehension, so that breakdowns in linguistic abilities are more likely to
become apparent in the measurement of productive skills than in that of recep-
tive skills. Linguistic skills are interrelated, and particular skills will unlikely
erode in total isolation. As attrition progresses, regression in receptive skills will
most likely accelerate the erosion of productive skills.
Similarly, reports have been made that lower-level skills seem to be more
vulnerable than global skills. Global skills, however, result from the cumulative
conduct of lower-level skills and thus cannot be treated as totally isolated from
lower-level skills. Naturally, when there is only slight regression in a particular
lower-level skill, the defect is unlikely to be discovered in terms of global skills.
But the fact that the regression is hard to measure does not mean that attrition is
not taking place.
Claims have also been made that vocabulary tends to be lost more than gram-
mar in the cases of highly proficient, naturalistic L2 acquirers. Such a claim is
problematic because losing one grammatical rule and one vocabulary item cer-
tainly cannot be regarded as the same "amount" of loss, so a simple comparison
is meaningless. Furthermore, the process of attrition is gradual, from decreased
accessibility to total loss, so that it is difficult, if not impossible, to determine at
any given time that a certain grammatical rule or vocabulary has totally eroded
from the learner's linguistic repertoire. Speakers always have the choice to
abort, using an uncertain rule or word and instead use different expressions to
convey their messages. As long as they use "safe" rules and words, they will be
regarded as having maintained the language.
Second, intuitivelyappealing ideas such as the regression hypothesis should
be reinterpreted. To the extent that many aspects of language knowledge become
affected by the regression of certain portions of knowledge, attrition can be
regarded as taking place simultaneously and uniformly. To the extent that a cer-
tain regression triggers another, attrition can be regarded as having some kind of
order. One would be tempted to say that whenever learners fail to use a linguis-
tic form that is considered difficult from the researcher's point of view, that
which is learned later is lost first. The linguistic knowledge represented in the
learner's brain, however, may simply not be in the form of common grammar
rules or syntactic descriptions thought up by linguists. In other words, regression
may very well take place in reverse order of acquisition, but the order may not
be in the form of digital stages, consisting of prescribed linguistic rules, but in
the form of analog stages, consistingof the weakening and eventually disappear-
ing neuronal connections that each carry simple and overlapping linguistic
knowledge.
Third, the notion of initial plateau must be regarded with care as well. Although
returnees do seem to lose less in the initial stages of attrition than later on, it is
highly unlikely that they would exhibit total resistance to loss, even during the
very first period of L2 disuse. Most possibly, their attrition involves the aspects
Loss of English by Japanese Returnee Children 95
of language use that are difficult to assess through common linguistic measure-
ments. As a result, the returnees may seem superficially immune to loss at the
beginning. My belief, however, is that there is no such thing as a real initial
plateau: Attrition sets in as soon as language use is discontinued, but initially
only in the form of erosion in the ability to coordinate various linguistic subsys-
tems simultaneously and spontaneously.
Finally, residual learning, by the same token, may be a mere consequence of
a particular linguistic element being overlooked in initial measurements but
being successfully assessed in later assessments. The fact that attrition starts in
the form of decreased accessibility conflates the problem, because it is always
possible that a certain task or measurement would give the learners an opportu-
nity to reactivate their eroding association, thus providing a chance to perform
as if they have learned something residually.
Regarding the second research question raised in this chapter, I would like to
stress that the use of English in an interactive situation, in which the returnees
are forced to speak spontaneously and to coordinate their linguistic subskills, is
crucial in maintaining English proficiency. Unfortunately, such opportunity
seems to be seldom provided in language maintenance programs offered in
Japan at present.
It is usually the returnees themselves who first realize how serious the degree
of their language attrition has become, at the point where a common linguistic
measurement of particular linguistic subskills would not overtly detect much
regression. What happens then is that the returnees increasingly lose confidence
in their use of English, while their parents or teachers notice little loss. Less con-
fidence presumably results in fewer attempts to use or to interact in English.
This creates the vicious cycle of further decreasing the returnees' opportunities
to use English. With less practice, the returnees gradually lose fluency, making
more false starts and repairs. Hence, it is important to regard the slightest
decrease in confidence and fluency on the part of the returnees as indications of
language loss. It is at this point that returnees should definitely be given an
opportunity to interact intensively with a native speaker on a one-to-one basis. I
believe that even a couple hours of such opportunity per month would be much
more effective in maintaining, or slowing the attrition of, the returnees' L2 than
merely making them participate in nondemanding classroom activities in a
group for two hours every week.
At present, maintenance classes seem to offer activities involving only local
skills or individual subskills. Few activities seem to consist of interactive pro-
duction exercises which involve the use of global language skills. Some activi-
ties are communicative in nature, yet they are not made to force the returnees to
utilize their language skills to the fullest, much less encourage them to extend or
to stretch their abilities. In essence, the maintenance programs lack activities
involving comprehensible input i + 1 as well as comprehensible output i + 1,
(Swain 1985, 1995, 1998).
It is important for the teachers and the parents to become aware that the
returnees' L2 starts to regress immediately after they return to Japan. Underesti-
mation of their degree of L2 attrition has a negative effect on their language
96 The Loss of English as a Second Language
maintenance, since unawareness of attrition may deprive the returnees of their
incentive to make the most out of their limited opportunities to use English
despite their positive attitude and motivation to maintain the L2. Especially in
the case of children, it would be essential for the teachers and parents to
acknowledge their language loss, and provide them with more effective exer-
cises.
With the development of technology, it may also be feasible to set up a corre-
spondence network between the Japanese returnees in Japan and the native-
speaking children in the United States so that the returnees will be offered the
chance to use English for real communicative purposes with native children of
their age. The potential effect of such a network can be explored in future
applied research.
Appendix
Table 4.1. Subject Description
Japanese,
shorter
incubation from
[JS]
Japanese,
longer
incubation
[JL]
Younger children
(4th grade) [Y]
9:7 yrs. old
Lived in U.S. for 3:8 yrs,
5:10 to 9:6
Returned 3 weeks before
initial data collection
Only child
9:6 yrs. old
Lived in U.S. for 5:5 yrs,
from 3:0 to 8:5
Returned 13 months before
initial data collection
Older children
(5th grade) [O]
11:3 yrs. old
Lived in U.S. for 4: 11 yrs,
from 6:3 to 11:2
Returned 4 weeks before
initial data collection
Has one elder brother
11:3 yrs. old
Lived in U.S. for 3:3 yrs,
from 6:9 to 10:0
Returned 15 months before
initial data collection
Table 4.2. Results of the Listening Comprehension Task
Session
Level
1
2
3
4
1
2
3
4
1
2
3
4
1
2
3
4

P
P


78
P
P

P


P
P


JOS
P
P
P
P
JOL
P
76
73
P
JYS
P
P
P
P
JYL
78
P
P
P
65
55
P
70
65


35
65
60
55
50
50
65
70
70
65
55
75

60



65







Note: P(ass) = 80 points or more among 100
97
6 7 8 9
Table 4.3. Number of Phonological Errors
Session
1
2
3
4
Total
JOS
0
0
0
0
0
JOL
0
2
1
2
5
JYS
2
1
0
3
6
JYL
2
2
1
0
5
Table 4.4. Summary of Verb Forms Used by JOS
During Free Interaction
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
1
100
92
1
100
100
1
89
93
1
100
100
Copula (is)
2 3 4
100 100 (100)
100 100 (100)
Copula (was)
2 3 4
(100) 100 100
(100) 100 100
Verb Stem
2 3 4
100 88 100
100 97 100
Past (regular)
2 3 4
(100) 100 88
(100) 100 100
During Story
1
57
100
1
(100)
(100)
1
83
63
1
96
100
Copula (are)
2 3 4
100 (100) 100
100 (100) 100
Copula (were)
2 3 4
(100)  (100)
(100) (100) 
3rd Person Sing, (-s)
2 3 4
(100) 95 (100)
(100) 79 (67)
Past (irregular)
2 3 4
100 95 100
100 100 100
Description
Copula (is)
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
1
100
80
1
(100)
85
1
100
100
2 3 4
(100) (100) (0)
(100) (100) (0)
Copula (were)
2 3 4
(50) 25 33
(100) (100) (100)
Auxiliary (was)
2 3 4
90 100 95
100 78 100
1
100
100
1
100
100
1


Copula (was)
2 3 4
100 100 100
100 91 70
Auxiliary (is)
2 3 4
100 (100) (0)
91 (100) (0)
Auxiliary (were)
2 3 4
(100) 33 (100)
(50) (100) (100)
98
Table 4.4. (continued)
During Free Interaction
3rd Person Sing, (-s)
Session
%SOC
%T-L
1
71
100
2
86
100
3
57
100
4
(100)
(100)
1
(100)
(100)
Past (regular)
Session
%SOC
%T-L
1
100
86
2
100
100
3
100
93
4
97
97
1
96
100
Verb Stem
2
0
(100)
3
100
33
4
(100)
(100)
Past (irregular)
2
100
100
3
96
100
4
98
100
Notes: Verb morphology with little or no data across all sessions was excluded from
the table. Dashes () indicate no data. Percentages in parentheses indicate that there
were less than three occurrences of the form in the data.
99
Table 4.5. Summary of Verb Forms Used by JOL
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Copula (is)
1 2 3 4
99 100 93 100
96 91 82 75
Verb Stem
1 2 3 4
77 85 100 0
80 65 68 0
PAST (regular)
1 2 3 4
50 (100) 0 0
(100) (0) 0 (0)
Copula (is)
1 2 3 4
100 80 100 100
83 62 69 50
Auxiliary (is)
1 2 3 4
(100) 64 88 82
(100) 100 100 90
Verb Stem
1 2 3 4
(100) 73 92 100
5 19 24 33
Past (regular)
1 2 3 4
(0)  18 
(0)  (100) 
During FreeInteraction
Copula (are) Copula (was)
1
100   (0) 14 50 33 (33)
75   (0) (100) (100) (100) (100)
3rd Person Sing, (-s)
1 2 3 4
(0) 25 (0) 
(0) (100) (0) 
PAST (irregular)
1 2 3 4
70 63 62 46
59 92 93 100
During Story Description
Copula (are)
1 2 3 4
(50) (50) (0) (33)
(50) (100) (0) (100)
Auxiliary (are)
1 2 3 4
 (100) 25 (0)
 (100)(100) (0)
3rd Person Sing, (-s)
1 2 3 4
0 7 14 0
0 50 86 0
Past (irregular)
1 2 3 4
44 34 11 15
100 100 (100) (100)
Notes: Verb morphology with little or no data across all sessions was excluded from the Cable. Dashes () indi-
cate no data. Percentages in parentheses indicate that there were less than three occurrences of the form in the data.
100
2 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
2
2
2
2 2
2 2
2 2 3
2 2
Table 4.6. Summary of Verb Forms Used by JYS
During Free
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session 1
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
1
100
100
1
58
100
2
86
100
1
(100)
(100)
1
100
100
1
100
100
1
100
93
1
95
97
Copula (am)
2 3
100 (100)
100 (100)
Copula (are)
2 3
67 57
100 100
Copula (were)
3 4
100 (100)
100 (100)
Auxiliary (is)
2 3
(100) 
(100) 
Auxiliary (was)
2 3
(100) 
(100) 
Modal (could)
2 3
(100) 100
(67) 100
Verb Stem
2 3
98 97
99 97
Past (regular)
2 3
100 83
100 83
4
(100)
(100)
4
67
100
Interaction
1
97
90
1
94
97
Copula (is)
2 3
100 97
96 91
Copula (was)
2 3
100 100
100 100
4
100
88
4
100
94
Auxiliary (am)
\
(0)
(0)
2
100
100
3 4
100
100 
(100)
(100)
Auxiliary (are)
4
(100)
(100)
4
(100)
(100)
4
(0)
(0)
1
(100)
(100)
1
100
100
1
(100)
(100)
2 3
(100) 
(100) 
Modal (can)
2 3
92 100
100 100
Modal (will)
2 3
100 
100 
3rd Person Sing.
4
100
96
1
100
100
2 3
96 100
89 92
4
(50)
(100)
4
100
80
4
(100)
75
(-s)
4
85
100
Past (irregular)
4
100
88
During Story
Session
%SOC
%T-L
1
95
95
Copula (is)
2 3
100 100
92 100
4
100
83
1
94
100
Description
1
(50)
(100)
2 3
98 91
100 100
Copula (are)
2 3
(67) 100
(100) 100
4
82
100
4
(0)
0
Copula (was)
Session 1 2 3 4
%SOC (100) 100 91 100
%T-L (100) 86 100 63
Copula (were)
1 2 3 4
(100) (25) (100) (50)
(100) (100) (33) (100)
(continued)
101
1 2 3 2 3 4
Table 4.6. (continued)
During Free Interaction
Auxiliary (is) Auxiliary (are)
S
e
s
s
i
o
n 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
%SOC (100) 91 100 100 (100) (33) 71 (100)
%T-L (100) 95 91 100 (100) (100) 100 (100)
Auxiliary (was) Verb Stem
Session 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
%SOC  100 100 (100) 100 (33) (100) (100)
%T-L  88 100 (100) 75 (100) (100) 40
Third Person Sing, (-s) Past (regular)
session
% SOC 94 100 95 75 (100) 100 (100) 100
%T-L 100 96 100 100 (100) 100 (100) 88
Past (irregular)
%SOC 100 83 100 96
%T-L 100 100 96 100
Notes: Verb morphology with little or no data across all sessions was excluded from the
table. Dashes (}indicate no data. Percentages in parentheses indicatethat there were
less than three occurrences of the form in the data.
102
2
2
1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
Session 1 2 3 4
Table 4.7. Summary of Verb Forms Used by JYL
During Free Interaction
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Copula (am)
(0) (100)  78
 (100)  100
Copula (are)
67 100 67 69
(100) 94 (100) 92
Copula (were)
(0) (50) (50) (100)
(100) (100)  
Auxiliary (is)
1 2 3 4
 100  (100)
 80  (50)
Auxiliary (was)
 100  (100)
 100  (100)
Modal (could)
33  100 100
(0)  93 78
Verb Stem
100 96 87 96
77 74 78 87
Past (regular)
33 67 88 63
80 73 75 56
Copula (is)
98 97 97 99
98 98 89 93
Copula (was)
100 88 89 89
100 94 93 89
Auxiliary (am)
 100  
100   
Auxiliary (are)
(100) (0)  67
(100) (0)  100
Modal (can)
100 100 90 97
67 100 100 100
Modal (will)
  100 90
  100 90
3rd Person Sing, (-s)
 59 80 8
 83 100 (100)
Past (irregular)
89 82 79 73
100 100 97 87
During Story Description
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Copula (is)
1
(100)  83 (100)
(100)  100 (100)
Copula (were)
1
100 (0)  0
100 (0)  (0)
Copula (was)
1
100 100 95 100
100 83 91 69
Auxiliary (was)
1 2 3 4
82 95 100 (100)
100 83 100 (100)
(continued)
103
1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
1 2 3 4
1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
2 3 4 1 2 3 4
2 3 4
2 3 4 1 2 3 4
Table 4.7. (continued)
During Free Interaction
Session
%SOC
%T-L
Verb Stem
1
(0) (100) (50) (100)
0 10 8 8
3rd Person Sing, (-s)
1 2 3 4
0 0 31 0
(0) (0) 100 (0)
Past (regular)
Session
%SOC 100 100 94 98
%T-L 71 65 80 84
Past (irregular)
1 2 3 4
85 84 100 85
100 100 100 100
Notes: Verb morphology with little or no data across all sections was excluded from the
table. Dashes () indicateno data. Percentages in parentheses indicatethat there were
less than three occurrences of the form in the data.
104
2 3 4 1 2 3 4
1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
Table 4.8. Articles Used in Obligatory Context
JOS
Session
1
2
3
4
Data
Used
Required
%SOC
Used
Required
%SOC
Used
Required
%SOC
Used
Required
%SOC
the
74
74
100
110
112
98.2
119
120
99.2
110
111
99.1
a/an
0
0
(50)
3
3
(100)
2
2
(100)
2
2
(100)
JOL
the
14
22
63.6
57
82
69.5
55
75
73.3
59
75
78.7
a/an
1
4
(25)
3
11
27.3
5
10
50
2
6
33.3
JYS
the
137
140
97.9
201
203
99.0
163
165
98.8
102
104
98.1
a/an
59
10
100
16
20
80.0
25
26
96.2
12
13
92.3
JYL
the
59
61
96.7
92
121
76.0
62
80
77.5
98
112
87.5
a/an
1
8
87.5
16
18
88.9
1
3
(33.3)
4
9
44.4
Note: Percentages in parentheses indicate that there were less than three occurrences of the form in the data.
105
Table 4.9. Types and Tokens of Vocabulary Used during
Spontaneous versus Planned Speech
Session
1
2
3
4
1
2
3
4
Data
Type
Token
Ratio
Type
Token
Ratio
Type
Token
Ratio
Type
Token
Ratio
Type
Token
Ratio
Type
Token
Ratio
Type
Token
Ratio
Type
Token
Ratio
JOS
483
2,085
.23
248
2,875
.28
291
1,227
.24
255
895
.29
63
119
.53
79
172
.46
38
59
.55
48
82
59
JOL
Free Interaction
349
2,159
.16
258
1,623
.16
256
1,594
.16
271
1,899
Planned Speech
85
249
.34
47
159
.30
95
299
.32
71
838
.30
JYS
785
5,267
.15
511
3,063
.17
486
2,713
.18
500
2,624
9
101
234
.43
37
57
.65
86
190
.45
44
66
.67
JYL
484
2,582
.19
459
2,717
.17
448
2,535
.18
448
3,158
.14
71
161
.44
126
266
.47
84
210
.40
67
118
.57
106
14
Table 4.10. Types and Frequency of Paraphrase Used by the Returnees
Session
1
2
3
4
Paraphrase Types
Total Clauses
Approximations
Word Coinages
Circumlocutions
Total Clauses
Approximatio
Word Coinages
Circumlocutions
Total Clauses
Approximations
Word Coinages
Circumlocutions
Total Clauses
Approximations
Word Coinages
Circumlocutions
JOS
346
5(1.4)
0(0)
0(0)
224
5(2.2)
0(0)
0(0)
278
3(1.1)
0(0)
0(0)
224
4(1.8)
0(0)
1 (0.4)
JOL
306
11(3.6)
0(0)
1 (0.3)
254
17 (6.7)
0(0)
2 (0.8)
239
23 (9.6)
0(0)
2 (0.8)
262
21 (8.0)
0(0)
3(1.1)
JYS
556
10(1.8)
0(0)
1 (0.2)
656
17(2.6)
2 (0.3)
1 (0.2)
570
13(2.3)
0(0)
8(1.4)
563
11 (2.0)
4 (0.7)
0(0)
JYL
832
45 (5.4)
1 (0.1)
10(1.2)
573
48 (8.4)
1 (0.2)
2 (0.3)
534
44(8.2)
3 (0.6)
7(1.3)
492
69(14)
2 (0.4)
4(5.8)
Note: Numbers in parentheses indicate the percentage of respective paraphrase type that occurred among the total
number of clauses.
Table 4.11. Frequency of Japanese Used
Session
1
Japanese (J) Usage
J Words
J Word as Error/Strategy
Total Words
% J Word as Error/Strategy
JOS
0
0
557
0
JOL
18
16
379
4.2
JYS
3
0
995
0
JYL
3
0
583
0
J Words 0 20 4 1
J Word as Error/Strategy 0 17 1 0
Total Words 745 813 1525 815
% J Word as Error/Strategy 0 2.1 0 0
J Words 0 30 9 0
J Word as Error/Strategy 0 26 7 0
Total Words 778 746 1319 809
% J Word as Error/Strategy 0 3.5 .005 0
J Words 0 23 2 0
J Word as Error/Strategy 0 20 2 0
Total Words 761 923 879 920
% J Word as Error/Strategy 0 2.3 .002 0
107
2
3
4
Table 4.12. Percentage of Attempted and Successful Complex
Clauses
Session
1
2
3
4
Data
Attempted/Total
Successful/Attempted
Attempted/Total
Successful/ Attempted
Attempted/Total
Successful/Attempted
Attempted/Total
Successful/ Attempted
JOS
5.8
100
5.8
76.9
12.9
77.8
8.9
85.0
JOL
1.0
33.3
1.2
0.0
2.1
20.0
1.1
66.7
JYS
7.6
88.1
5.6
78.3
6.5
73.0
2.7
66.7
JYL
4.8
37.5
9.9
28.1
7.5
35.0
12.2
21.7
Table 4.13. Percentage of Error-Free Clauses among Total
Clauses Uttered
Session
1
2
3
4
Data
Error-Free Clauses
Total Clauses
% Error-Free Clauses
Error-Free Clauses
Total Clauses
% Error-Free Clauses
Error-Free Clauses
Total Clauses
% Error-Free Clauses
Error-Free Clauses
Total Clauses
% Error-Free Clauses
JOS
312
346
90.2
190
224
84.8
236
278
84.9
197
224
87.9
JOL
157
306
51.3
99
254
39.0
53
239
22.2
83
262
31.7
JYS
478
556
86.0
565
656
86.1
470
570
82.5
460
563
81.7
JYL
617
832
74.2
377
573
65.8
306
534
57.3
201
492
40.9
108
Table 4.
Session
1
2
3
4
14. Measurement of Fluency
Speech per Time Unit
Total Words
Total Seconds
Words/Second
Total Words
Total Seconds
Words/Second
Total Words
Total Seconds
Words/Second
Total Words
Total Seconds
Words/Second
JOS JOL
553 268
335 455
1.7 0.6
736 601
480 660
1.5 0.9
776 594
410 650
1.9 0.9
759 759
465 660
1.6 1.2
JYS JYL
972 574
640 930
1.5 0.6
1485 807
1130 940
1.3 0.9
1277 808
1090 915
1.2 0.9
864 915
680 845
1.3 1.1
Average Number of Clauses per Repair
1
2
3
4
27.7 2.5
12.0 2.2
24.8 3.1
9.5 2.9
5.9 2.0
2.3 3.9
3.0 2.9
2.0 2.9
Average Number of Clauses per False Start
1
2
3
4
16.6 5.9
20.0 2.3
15.5 3.0
30.8 2.0
3.6 2.8
1.5 3.0
1.8 5.8
1.7 3.3
Average Number of Clauses per Filler
1
2
3
4
20.8 2.0
13.3 3.9
62.0 2.9
61.5 2.9
8.5 10.1
5.3 17.9
4.5 15.2
8.6 31.2
109
110 The Loss of English as a Second Language
Not
1. This chapter is a condensed version of Yoshitomi (1994), a Ph.D. dissertation submit-
ted to the University of California, Los Angeles.
2. Hypothesis-generating type of research, based on real-life language use represented
by samples of free speech in various situations, would be useful in extracting features,
skills, strategies, or whatever relevant types of knowledge that could be later tested
more specifically in diagnostic type of measurements. Especially in studying children
at different stages of cognitive developments, measurements of high validity will be
hard to develop. As Andersen puts it, "To some extent the researcher should let the
nature of the data itself guide him in choosing which features he should study"
(1982:87). This approach, according to Andersen, is a common one taken in language
variation research in L1 acquisition, as well as in sociolinguistic variation research in
the use of a native language, and in pidgin and Creole studies. The approach seems rel-
evant to language attrition research as well, in as much as people suffering from lan-
guage loss are likely to exhibit different variations in their language use as compared
with native speakers, and this difference in variation is precisely one of the major con-
cerns in studyingattrition (Olshtain 1989).
3. Ideally, the sample subjects should represent combinations of at least the following
characteristics, excluding, sociopsychological variables: different age at the time of
arrival (early versus later or late) in the United States, different age at the time of
departure (early versus later or late) from the United States, different lengths of stay
(relatively long versus relatively short) in the United States, different lengths of incu-
bation (relatively long versus relatively short) since returning to Japan, and different
sex (male versus female). This would require a minimum of 32 subjects, each filling
the respective "cells" of possible combinations of characteristics. Moreover, it would
be best to have a number of cases for each cell.
4. The contextual information of the data together with the date from the acquisition
phase provided the means for evaluating the individual subjects' proficiency. There-
fore, no proficiency test was given, as in the structure-centered normative tests
employed in many of the previous cross-sectional studies.
As reviewed in Yoshitomi (1994), there are some methodological problems in pre-
vious L2 attrition studies. In essence, no single reliable and valid general proficiency
measurement is currentlyavailable, especially for the purpose of assessing the individu-
als' levels of language proficiency in "real-life" communicative situations. This lack of
measurement is especially apparent for young children, who are the subjects of the
present study.
According to Bachman & Clark, most currently available measures are inadequate
because, "they are based on a model of language proficiency that does not include the
full range of abilities required for communicative language use, and they are based on
norm-referenced principles of test development that only permit interpretation of abil-
ity levels relative to the performance of specific groups of language users" (1987:21).
Knowledge of grammar or language structure rather than of communication skills has
been the main focus of previous studies. Although such focus in itself may reveal
interesting characteristics about language attrition, future studies should also look into
other types of skills or competence if we are to truly grasp what is going on in the pro-
cess of language loss.
I would also like to add that based on my experience of having observed and
talked with many returnees, their communicative abilities in L2 are roughly the same
Loss of English by Japanese Returnee Children 111
at the time of return to Japan if their length of stay in an English-speaking country
was three to five years, if their age of arrival in the country was between five to eight
years, and if they attended a regular English-speaking school while they were abroad.
5. This kind of measurement should be used cautiously, because even native speakers
may exhibit many repairs, false starts, and fillers. The attempt here was to measure
any increase in the occurrences of repairs, false starts, and fillers in the individual
returnee's speech across time; it was not a direct comparison of the frequency of
repairs, false starts, and fillers among the returnees.
6. Fluency can be defined in many ways. Most definitions rely on the rater's intuition in
judging the fluency of a language learner. For example, the Foreign ServiceInstitute
interview scale defines fluency as the "overall smoothness, continuity, and naturalness
of speech." Here I adopt Riggenbach's (1989) approach and attempt to measure flu-
ency in terms of "fluency-related markers."
Riggenbach lists hesitations, repairs, and rate of speech as possible features
ascribed to fluency. Hesitations include filled and unfilled pauses; repairs refer to
either repetitive repairs or restarts, and the rate of speech is the numbers of words
uttered per minute. Riggenbach uses a microanalytic approach, which involves the
measurement of unfilled pauses in microseconds. Such microscopic measurement was
impossible in this study; hence, only hesitationsin terms of pauses filled by fillers
(e.g., uh, um) were counted. What Riggenbach calls "repetitive or retraced repairs"
are what I call "repairs." They refer to reformulations in speech in which part of the
original utterances is repeated. What Riggenbach calls "(unretraced) restarts" arewhat
I call''false starts," defined as reformulationsin speech in which the original utterance
is rejected and rephrased in terms of different expressions (p. 43).
7. All statistics reported in this study are descriptive statistics. The amount of data and
the nature of the data did not allow for inferential statistics in many cases. Further-
more, the nature of the study being more qualitative than quantitative,and more of a
hypothesis-generating type than of a hypothesis-testing type, it was assumed that
descriptive statistics could render sufficient informationfor the purpose of the study.
In preliminary studies such as that reported in this paper, merely pursuing"statistical
significance" may result in ignoring essential characteristics of language use in the
attrition process (Roger Andersen, personal communication). I do admit, however,
that the use of inferential statistics would be compulsory in future studies, where the
research design is experimental and the purpose of study more fine-tuned to "test"
specific hypotheses.
This page intentionally left blank
PART II
The Loss of Japanese as a Second
Language by Adult Foreigners
Lexical Maintenance and Attrition in
Japanese as a Second Language
Robert A. Russell
In recent years, researchers have shown increasinginterest in the phenomenon
of second language (L2) loss or attrition. A few of the issues that have been
addressed in the literature include identification of the particular skills and sub-
systems of L2 that are lost, the order in which they are lost, the rates at which
different skills are lost, the processes and variables affecting L2 loss, and the
amount and timing of attrition.1
The present study deals with the maintenanceor loss of productive L2 lexical
skills. Studies that have dealt with questionsof lexical attritioninclude those, for
example, by Cohen (1986, 1989), Graham (1990), Brown & Graham (1991),
Olshtain & Barzilay (1991, on first language [L1] lexical attrition), and Grendel
(1993). One such question deals with whether the lexicon is lost more or less
rapidly than other L2 subsystems, such as grammar and morphology.Although
intuition might suggest, for example, that vocabulary is lost more rapidly than
grammar, Weltens, van Els & Schils (1989) report, to the contrary, that after
zero, two, and four years of disuse of French as a foreign language, learners dis-
played greater attrition in grammar than in phonology, the lexicon, or other areas
measured in their study. Using a time-restricted lexical decision experiment,
Grendel's (1993) study of Dutch learners of French as a foreign language found
that, while speed of lexical accessibility might be slowed as a result of disuse,
there was no significant evidence of actual loss over a period of several years, at
least with respect to certain aspects of orthography and of lexical associations.
Still other studies claim to have observed lexical attrition in varying amounts
over varying periods of disuse: McMahon (1946) reported a 7.4% loss of vocab-
ulary in Latin as a foreign language over a three-month period and, for French as
a foreign language, Messelink & Verkuylen(1984) report no loss in the first year
but 15% loss in the second year, as cited in Weltens (1987).
With the notable exceptions of Cohen (1986, 1989) and Olshtain (1986),
114
5
Lexical Maintenance and Attrition 115
most studies of lexical attrition to date have focused on receptive lexical knowl-
edge or on limited aspects of such knowledge elicited under experimental condi-
tions. According to an earlier hypothesis by Anderson (1982), however, "active"
vocabulary is more likely to be lost than "passive" vocabulary, a hypothesis that
has received some confirmationfrom a study by Gonzo & Saltarelli (1983), in
which the effects of attrition were more pronounced in a lexical retrieval task
than in one involving lexical recognition (see de Bot & Weltens, 1995). In a
study dealing with changes in certain aspects of both receptive and productive
lexical knowledge, Graham (1990) reports no clear, linear pattern of vocabulary
loss in adult speakers of Spanish as a second language, either over the two-year
period of disuse during which the experiment was conducted or as a function of
the amount of time elapsed since the onset of disuse (ranging from zero to four
years prior to the first test). Graham's study was limited, however, primarily to
an analysis of the relative frequency of occurrence in the subjects' data of the
"most frequent words" as determined by independent frequency lists.
Further questions have been raised with respect to the effects on lexical attri-
tion of such variables as the learner's age or other personal factors, the profi-
ciency level achieved before the onset of disuse, the type of vocabulary lost (such
as function versus content), the methods by which the vocabulary was acquired,
and the setting in which it was acquired. The results of studies that have
addressed such questions have been varied and in many casesinconclusive.2
It should also be noted that most of the attrition-related studies reported in the
literature thus far have dealt with Spanish, French, German, English, or other
Indo-European languages as second or foreign languages. The picture of lexical
attrition that has begun to emerge, however incompletely, is thus heavily colored
by semantic and structural characteristics that may be peculiar, to some degree,
to the particular subset of target languages studied. We clearly need studies that
deal with second languages that have lexical semantic properties and inflec-
tional, compounding, and other morphological processes that are different from
those typically found in the Indo-European languages. Only then can we begin
to form a more accurate view of the processes of lexical acquisition and attrition
that hold across all languages.
Purp se of the Study
The overall objective of the present study is to examine patterns of lexical main-
tenance and attrition specifically among native English-speaking learners' of
Japanese as a second language (JSL). The data on which the research is based
came from transcriptions of oral monologue responses to a number of questions
that were administered to a group of (initially) eighty subjects on three different
occasions over a period of two years. The subjects, all of whom were university
students in their early twenties who had recently returned from approximately
two years of missionary service in Japan, varied as to the year of their return from
Japan and in the amount of formal instruction they had received in Japanese fol-
lowing their return. Of the four major categories of language attrition identified
116 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
by van Els, de Bot, & Weltens (1983), this study falls most nearly into the third
categorythat is, the loss of L2 or foreign language (FL) in an L1 environment.
In the present case, however, we are looking for the possibility of attrition not in
"foreign languages learned at school" but in a second language learned largely
in a host culture setting with a subsequent return to the L1 environment.
Specific questions addressed in this chapter relate to the nature and extent of
attrition in productive lexical ability as reflected in total word counts, lexical
variability (based on type-tokenratios), lexical density (based on ratios of con-
tent, or open-class, words to total words), lexical accuracy (based on lexical
error rates), lexical frequency orders, and relative frequencies of filler words,
loan words, and English words in the JSL data. The study also addresses the
question of whether extended formal instruction in the language uponreturning
from Japan correlates significantly with changes in any of the above-mentioned
variables related to productive lexical competence. Each question will be dis-
cussed in detail below.
Although it is difficult to measure precisely, it can safely be assumed that,
both in general and, usually, in specific contexts of elicitation, vocabulary size
will be larger for native speakers of a particular language than for nonnative
speakers of that language (Chapelle 1994; Aitchison 1987). It is also natural to
assume that the size of L2 vocabulary should increase as the learner's interlan-
guage develops (Blum-Kulka& Levinson 1983; Laufer & Nation 1995). Con-
versely, under conditions of attrition, as vocabulary is forgotten or becomes
inaccessible for production, it follows that vocabulary size (especially ofcontent
words) will decrease and that the decrease should be reflected in the total num-
ber of words (both tokens and types) produced in a given context. In Cohen's
(1989) longitudinal study of third language (L3) Portuguese oral data elicited
from two bilingual English-Hebrew children, for instance, a decrease in vocabu-
lary size was observed following a period of disuse. For the present study as
well, it was predicted that a decrease in vocabulary size would also be observed
among JSL-speaking subjects over a two-year period of observation.
With regard to lexical variability,as measured by the ratio of types to tokens,
one might expect, intuitively, that native speakers of a given language would
exhibit higher degrees of variability than nonnativespeakers because of the gen-
erally larger number of open-class (or content) lexical items available to native
speakers (as opposed to nonnativespeakers) in comparison with the small num-
ber of closed-class (or function) words, where a much smaller difference is likely
to be found between native and nonnative speakers. In the acquisition of a second
language, it might also be expected, therefore, that as the size of learners' content
vocabulary increases with increased levels of general proficiency,lexical vari-
ability should also increase, at least for longer samples of production. Likewise,
one might also expect lexical density (the ratio of content tokens to total tokens)
to correlate positively with levels of lexical and general proficiencythat is to
say, native speakers and more advanced learners of a given language, with their
larger content vocabularies, might naturally be expected to exhibit higher ratios
of contentto total tokens than those exhibited by learners of lower proficiency.
Lexical Maintenance andAttrition \ \ 7
In the few studies that directly address these issues, however, there seems to
be no clear evidence of a correlation between either lexical variability ordensity
on the one hand and L2 proficiency level on the other. Laufer (1991), for exam-
ple, observed no significant increase (in an acquisition setting) in lexical vari-
ability or lexical density in written compositions by advanced English as a Sec-
ond Language (ESL) learners in her study over a two-semester period of
instruction (see also Laufer & Nation 1995). That observation is weakened,
however, by the absence of independent evidence of any change in general pro-
ficiency among the subjects over the two-semester interval. In an unpublished
paper dealing with data in an oral production mode, Brown & Graham (1991)
also found no significant evidence of a decline in lexical variability (measured
by type-token ratios) over a two-year period of disuse by L2 speakers of Spanish
and Japanese.3
In the latter study, however, there was no control over the vari-
able of subjects' further exposure to the L2 during the period of relative disuse.
The failure of existing studies to find a correlation between lexical variability
and density on the one hand and changes in proficiency on the other hand may
be due, in other words, at least in part to their failure to control critical variables.
The present study does attempt, to some degree, to control the variable of fur-
ther exposure, but due to the post hoc nature of its design, it was not possible to
control for the variable of subjects' initial proficiency. This failure is partially
mitigated by the fact that all subjects in the study had undergone the same prede-
parture, intensivetwo-month language training course and had spent an identical
period of 22 months in the host country, acquiring the L2 informally under
highly similar conditions. Based, then, on the foregoing considerations, another
question in this study is whether lexical variability (type-token ratios) and lexi-
cal density (content-to-total-word ratios) for relatively advanced JSL learners
performing in an oral mode will be found to have decreased over a two-year
period of relative disuse of the L2, and whether the presence or absence of for-
mal instruction following a two-year period of rather intensive informal acquisi-
tion in the host culture will be found to have had an effect on any changes in lex-
ical variability or density.
With regard to lexical accuracy or quality, it was predicted that, even if broad
measures of lexical variability and density turn out not to exhibit significant
change, learners in the study might nevertheless show a decreasing ability to use
words accurately, as reflected in (1) an increased ratio of various types of lexical
errors per T-unit of discourse, (2) a decreased ratio of the number of words per
(lexical) error-free T-unit, and (3) a decrease in the number of error-free T-units
as a percentage of the total number of T-units.4
It was also expected, however,
that any decrease in lexical accuracy might be more pronounced in the group of
learners who had little or no subsequent formal instruction than in the group
who received formal instruction. The further formal instruction to which sub-
jects were exposed emphasized reading but also included a considerable amount
of conversational practice as well. It was expected, intuitively at least, that the
additional exposure would help reinforce vocabulary skills already acquired by
those subjects. It remains an empirical question, of course, whether and to what
118 The Loss of Japanese as a Second language
extent instruction in reading and writing skills will transfer to, or reinforce, oral
skillsa question, however, that lies beyond the scope of this study.
The weighted frequencies of the lexical items most commonly used by the
JSL subjects in this study were also calculated and compared, both quantita-
tively and qualitatively, with those of a group of Japanese native speakers (JNS).
It was predicted that the JSL groups' frequency orders would correlate more
closely with each other than with those of the JNS group, and that there might
also be a decrease in the degree of correlation between JSL and JNS frequency
orders over time.
It was further expected that there might be differences between JSL and JNS
subjects with regard to the frequency of different lexical strata. The lexical
strata referred to here are those into which the Japanese lexicon has tradition-
ally been divided (Shibatani 1990:142-153): native Japanese words (wago or
Yamato-kotoba), Sino-Japanese words (kango), and loan words from languages
(primarily Indo-European) other than Chinese (gairaigo). In addition to the
three traditional lexical strata, however, a fourth category must be added when
analyzing the interlanguage speech of JSL learnerswords borrowed from the
learner's L1 (in this case English), which may be substituted when the corre-
sponding expressions cannot be retrieved from L2 stores. While a detailed anal-
ysis of words by syntactic category and of lexical strata is in progress and will
be reported at a later date, the present report focuses only on the relative fre-
quency of loan words and of English words in the JSL data. Specifically, it was
predicted that JSL learners would use relatively higher frequencies of both loan
words and English words than did the JNS subjects; that the relative frequen-
cies of both strata would increase over time, indicatingincreased difficulty in
the retrieval of corresponding native Japanese and Sino-Japanese forms; and
that the learners with further formal instruction would show a lower rate of
increase in loan word and English word usage than those without formal
instruction.
Method
Subjects
For the present study, a group of (initially) 80 subjects was randomly selected
from among hundreds of students at Brigham Young University who had spent
approximately two years as missionaries in Japan prior to the beginning of the
study. Of the 80 subjects who participated in the administration of the first test,
only 65 were able to participate in all three elicitations. The 65 subjects who
participated in all three tests were then divided into two groups, one group con-
sisting of learners with a significant amount of additional formal instruction in
Japanese (eight or more semester hours) over the two-year period of the study,
and the other group consisting of learners without such instruction(zero to four
semester hours). Ten subjects were then selected at random from each of the two
groups. As indicated, the purpose of the study was to observe the nature and
Lexical Maintenance and Attrition 119
extent of attrition or other changes in the subjects' productive JSL lexical
competence over an extended period of time, and to measure the effects, if any,
of further formal instruction on JSL lexical maintenance.
The study deals with productive (versus receptive) lexical skills, in an oral
(versus written) mode, with free monologue (versus dialogue or more con-
trolled elicitation) tasks, with young adult JSL learners (all of whom were
male,5
were native speakers of English, had completed approximately two years
of residence in Japan as missionaries, and had undergone an identical period of
largely informal acquisition of Japanese under highly similar conditions). The
subjects varied minimally with respect to the amount of exposure they had had
to Japanese prior to leaving for Japan (the majority had had virtually no previ-
ous exposure to the language). They also varied as to the amount of experience
in learning other languages, the year of their return from Japan, and the amount
of formal instruction and further informal exposure to Japanese followingtheir
return. The subjects also varied, certainly, with respect to actual level of profi-
ciency in the language, general intelligence, language aptitude, and other per-
sonal factors that could not be controlled in the present study. Of the factors
mentioned above, the only variation that could systematically be controlled was
that relating to the amount of formal instruction subjects received upon return-
ing from Japan.
For normative purposes, data were also elicited from five native speakers of
Japanese; the same set of questions and test conditions were used as for the JSL
subjects.6
Data Collection
A mixed cross-sectional and longitudinal design was used for the study. As
described above, oral monologue data were elicited from two groups, each
consisting of ten subjects, at three different points in time over a period of
approximately two years between late 1986 and early 1989. The subjects were
given the same elicitation task each time. With approximately one year inter-
vening between test administrations, the likelihood of test-learning effects was
minimal.
The subjects were asked to record their oral responses, in Japanese, to each of
six questions. Four minutes were allowed for each response. Two of the ques-
tions were based on religious topics familiar to the subjects, but these were
omitted from the present study because they would not permit comparison with
a larger population of JSL learners. A third question involving apicture-guided
story retelling was also omitted because data were not available from the JNS
group for comparative purposes. The three remaining questions, on which the
present study is based, are included for reference in Appendix A.
The subjects' responses were recorded on audiocassette tapes and were later
transcribed and edited for accuracy. A further editing process was required to
ensure that words were segmented consistently in preparation for later treatment
with text analysis software.7
120 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
Data Analysis
The transcribed text files were initially processed using WordCruncher soft-
ware (a text indexing, retrieval, and analysis program developed by Electronic
Text Corporation, 1988) to generate lists of words and their frequencies. Type-
token ratios were then calculated using these lists. As discussed above, type-
token ratios are interpreted as measures of lexical variation, with higher ratios
reflecting greater variety in the productive lexicon. In the present study, a
decrease in type-token ratios over time would be taken to indicate decreased lex-
ical variability, an indication of lexical attrition. Contrary, however, to Laufer's
observation (1991:447, n.9) that lexical variation "is sensitive to the length of
the composition" (leading her to limit the calculation of type-token ratios to the
first 250 words of each essay), there was no correlation in our data between text
length and type-token ratios. Type-token ratios in the present study were there-
fore based on the entire text of each subject, regardless of length.
The type-token lists abstracted from the text files in the present study were
also sorted further by frequency, so that word frequency orders could easily be
generated for each subject. A software program was also developed to facilitate
the tagging and frequency analysis of words in each file based on grammatical
category and lexical stratum. The relative frequencies of content words (nouns,
verbs, adjectives, and adverbs) versus function words (postpositions, conjunc-
tions, complementizers, fillers, etc.,) were also analyzed and compared with
those of the JNS group.
The text files were segmented into T-units and analyzed for lexical errors by
three different native speakers of Japanese, all of whom were graduate students
in applied linguisticsand had received training in procedures required specifi-
cally for the present analysis.8
It was difficult in a number of cases to assign errors to unique categories but
also, at times, even to distinguish between lexical and syntactic or other errors.
This difficulty may have resulted, in part, from inadequacies in the categories
chosen for analysis but also, it surely reflects the underlying difficulty of clearly
distinguishing, in theoretical terms, the boundaries between different compo-
nents of grammatical competence. For example, it might be argued that an error
such as Nihon ni *kita mae wa ("Before I came to Japan") is really a grammati-
cal error involving inappropriate tense marking (past tense kita "came," instead
of the required nonpast form kuru "come"), and not a lexical error. It can also be
argued, however, that the incorrect tense marking itself results, in part at least,
from an incomplete understanding of the lexical semantics of the word mae,
"before." At any rate, error counts used in the present analysis were limited to
total numbers of lexical errors. A detailed analysis of individual error types is in
progress and will be reported at a later date.
Brief mention should also be made of the procedure used for analyzing the
frequency orders of different lexical items used by both JNS and JSL subjects.
The 20 most frequent lexical items (includingties) were identified for each sub-
ject. Since there was considerable variation in individualitem frequencies and
some overlap in item inventories, simply calculatingthe average rank without
Lexical Maintenance and Attrition 121
taking item frequencies into account would have led to distortion in the rank-
ings. Weighted average frequencies were therefore calculated using Rosengren's
formula (1972), discussion of which is also found in Francis & Kucera (1982).
Based on the resulting weighted averages, the 25 most frequent lexical items
occurring in common between the JSL and JNS groups were then ranked and
compared using the Spearman rank-order correlation.
Mean values for other variables of interest (such as type-token ratios, lexical
errors, etc.) were compared using analysis of variance (ANOVA); the two fac-
tors used in comparing learners' data were group and time, includingtwo levels
within group (ENS1, the JSL learner group with little or no further formal
instruction; and ENS2, the JSL learners with further formal instruction) and
three levels within time (representing the administration of the test at three dif-
ferent points in time, although only two levels were available for the analysis of
lexical errors). A repeated measures design was used, as the subjects within each
group were the same at each time level. For comparisons between JSL learners
and the Japanese native speaker group, the general linear model of ANOVA was
used because of the different numbers of subjects in the three groups. The
Scheffe post hoc comparison was used in all cases to locate the differences
among means. Because of the large number of dependent variables in this study,
F-values, significance levels, and other detailed statistical data for all but the
Spearman procedure will usually not be displayed in the body of the text, but
they have been summarizedin Appendix B for reference (see Tables 5.7 and 5.8).
Results and Discussion
The data in Table 5.1 (see Appendix B) summarize the average total numbers of
tokens and types, and the type-token ratios for each of the three groups: ENS1
(JSL learners without further formal instruction), ENS2 (JSL learners with fur-
ther formal instruction),and JNS (the reference group of native speakers of
Japanese). The means for both groups of JSL learners are given for each of three
elicitations; the JNS group was tested only once.
As expected, the JNS group means for both total tokens and types were some-
what higher than those of both JSL groups, although not to a level of signifi-
cance.9
The JNS type-token ratio was also slightly higher (32.6% to approxi-
mately 28% for both JSL groups at Time 1), although, once again, not
significantly so. As predicted, there was a significant decrease in the total num-
bers of both tokens (F = 4.89, p < .01) and types (F = 3.59, p < .04) from Time 1
to Time 3 for both JSL groups. The percentage of decrease was greater, however,
for ENS1 than for ENS2: a 16.2% decrease in total tokens for ENS1 versus an
8.9% decrease for ENS2, and a 12.5% decrease in total types for ENS1 versus a
4.3% decrease for ENS2. The difference in the rate of decrease between the two
groups was, however, not significant. Nor was there any significant change in the
type-token ratios for ENS1 and ENS2 from Time 1 to Time 3. Thus, with regard
to lexical variability,there was no clear evidence of attrition for either JSL group.
The slight increase in variability for ENS2 was not statistically significant.
122 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
Also recorded in the lower half of Table 5.1 are the average numbers of
tokens and types of both content and function words, along with the ratios of
content tokens and types to total tokens and types. The ratios of content words to
total (content + function) words provide a measurement of lexical density, as
discussed above.
The mean numbers of content tokens and types for the JNS group were
higher than those of both JSL groups, although not to the level of significance
(except between JNS and ENS1 in content types; F = 4.08, p < .03), perhaps
because of the small number of JNS subjects. As predicted, there was a signifi-
cant decrease in the average numbers of both content tokens (F = 8.28, p < .001)
and types (F = 3.73, p < .03) from Time 1 to Time 3 for both ENS1 and ENS2.
As in the case of total tokens and types, the decrease for Group 1 was greater
than that of Group 2: 19.8% versus 11.0% in content tokens and 14.6% versus
4.8% in content types. The between-groups comparison yielded no significant
difference in the case of content tokens, but there was a significant difference in
content types (F = 4.98, p < .04), with the mean number of content types for
Group 2 (the formal instruction group) higher than those for Group 1.
There was also a slight decrease in the ratios of content tokens to total tokens
and content types to total types, again with the percentage of decrease for Group
1 greater than that for Group 2: 4.8% versus 1.6% in tokens and 2.5% versus
1.0% in types, although, once again, not to a statistically significant level. The
decrease in content-to-total-token ratios for both JSL groups over time
approached significance at .07. There was also no significant difference between
content to total word ratios between JNS and JSLgroups.
The T-unit and lexical error analysis data are summarized in Table 5.2 (see
Appendix B). As expected, the average sentence length for the JNS group was
greater than that of both JSL groups, as indicated by the significantly higher
number of tokens per T-unit (F = 26.41, p < .0001). There was, for the JSL
groups, a decrease in the absolute number of lexical errors from Time 1to Time
3, offset by a corresponding decrease in the total number of T-units. Therefore,
contrary to expectation, there was virtually no change in the number of lexical
errors per T-unit.
As predicted, however, there was a statistically significant decrease in the
total number of lexical-error-free T-units (F = 5.13, p < .04) and in the total
number of tokens occurring within error-free T-units (F = 6.02, p < .02), a
decline that is even more pronounced if the data from a clear outlier in Group 1
are excluded from consideration. One of the subjects in Group 1 subverted the
format of the task, in a sense, by responding to one of the questions in a simu-
lated dialogue manner using (usually) short, formulaic, and often accurate T-
units ("Amerika ni irassharu n desu ka,'' "Aa soo desu ka," "li desu ne,) etc.,
artificially inflating the average number of error-free T-units and, unexpectedly,
the average number of tokens in error-free T-units. The subject in question, for
example, had 58 error-free T-units compared with a range of 3-12 for the
remaining nine subjects, and 423 tokens in error-free T-units compared with a
range of 14-104 for the other Group 1 subjects. There was also a decrease in the
ratio of tokens per error-free T-unit for JSL Group 2, the group with further formal
Lexical Maintenance and Attrition 123
instruction, though not to the level of significance for the two groups taken
together.
It is interesting to compare these findings with those of Diane Larsen-Free-
man (1983), who found the average number of words per T-unit (notsignificant
in this study) and the average number of words per error-free T-unit (possibly
significant for Group 2 learners) to be correlated with levels of proficiency in the
writing abilities of ESL learners. In an earlier study, she had also found a posi-
tive correlation between sheer length of output on ESL compositions and profi-
ciency level. It may well be that the decreasing length of output over time in the
present study is, conversely, also correlated with a decline in proficiency,
although this cannot be directly confirmed because of the unavailability of inde-
pendent measures of the subjects' proficiencylevels at the time of testing.
In Table 5.3 (see Appendix B) are displayed the results of the frequency order
analysis. As previously described, the figures represent weighted average rank-
ings of the 25 most frequent lexical items occurring in the subjects' responses.
The items (including postpositions and other function words) are listed in the
left-hand column in descending order of frequency for the JNS subjects.10
The
JSL groups' frequency orders are displayed in the four columns on the right-
hand side of the table.
Not surprisingly, 18 of the 25 most frequent items were function words,
including (for the JNS subjects, at least) the first seven items, all of which func-
tion primarily as postpositions. The first thing that seems obvious on inspection
is the overall degree of similarity among the rankings, especially among the JSL
learners, concerningwhich more detailed reference will be made shortly.
There were, however, some rather striking differences as well. For instance,the
most frequent item for the JNS group was the particle no (genitive postposition,
nominalizer, etc.), whereas the most frequent item for both JSL groups at both
Times 1 and 3 was the postposition wa (thematic postposition), only the fourth
most frequent item for the JNS group. Other items that seemed to occur with
noticeably greater frequency for the JNS group than for the learners included (1)
the subordinate conjunction no-de ("since," "because"occurring only rarely in
the JSL data, perhaps because of fewer instances of subordinate clauses to begin
with and because of a tendency to overgeneralize the use of another, similar form,
kara); (2) the focus postposition mo ("also," "even"); (3) the common verb iu ("to
say"); and (4) the sentence-connecting adverb mata ("also").
Perhaps the most striking difference between the two groups, however, was
the extremely high frequency of occurrence of the fillers ano and MOTamong the
JSL learners, compared with that of the JNS group. The implications of this find-
ing will be discussed below.
Returning to the issue of the overall similarity observed among the orders,
one of the questions at the outset was whether the weighted frequency orders of
lexical items of the two JSL groups would correlate more closely with each
other than with those of the JNS group. As shown in Appendix B in Table 5.4,
the answer to this question seems clearly in the affirmative. Although there are
significant levels of positive correlation both within the JSL groups and between
the JSL and JNS groups, the strength of correlation between JSL groups (ENS 1and
124 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
ENS2) is significantly greater than that between the JNS group and either of the
JSL groups."
It appears, however, that there was no significant change in the degree ofcor-
relation between JNS and JSL frequency orders from Time 1 to Time 3 (.641-
.648 for ENS1and .688-.659 for ENS2). Nor were there significantdifferences
within each JSL group between Time 1 and Time 3 (.949 for ENS1and .942for
ENS2). Finally, while there appeared to be no weakening of the correlation
between JNS and JSL groups over time, the correlation between the JSL groups
themselves appeared to become somewhat stronger between Time 1 and Time 3
(.894-.943). In overall quantitative terms, however, there seem to be no clear
indications of significant change in distribution of lexical choice, at least as far
as that may be reflected in frequency orders.
One of the striking results of the frequency analysis mentioned above was the
extremely high frequency of fillers ano and um in the JSL data. Fillers may func-
tion in speech as a strategic device to buy time, so to speak, to complete thepro-
cess of planning, retrieving, and producing appropriate lexical and syntactic
structures (Brown 1977, Lennon 1990, Riggenbach 1991). Even among native
speakers of a language, there is considerable variation with respect to both the
specific forms used as fillers and the frequency with which fillers are used in
general. Both types of variation were evident in the data of this study as well.
On the assumption that native speakers are in general more fluent in speaking
their language than nonnative speakers, one would expect a higher frequency of
filler words to occur in learners' speech than in that of native speakers. One
might naturally expect, further, that the relative frequency of filler words in
learners' speech should decrease with increasing levels of fluency and profi-
ciency. The findings of Kuwahara (1995), in fact, provide clear support for such
an assumption. Conversely, under conditions of attrition, one might expect an
increasing frequency of certain filler words, pauses, and other related behavior
(Lennon 1990, Riggenbach 1991).
Table 5.5 in Appendix B summarizes the mean frequencies of the filler words
that occurred with the greatest frequency in the JSL data. Unfortunately, it was not
possible to include all instances of filler and fillerlike expressions. Other expres-
sions and behavior that could not be treated in the present, preliminary analysis
included ma, soo-desu-ne, nan-to-iu, repetitions, false starts and repairs, and pauses.
As seen in Table 5.5,the average total number of filler tokens was higher for
the JSL groups than for the JNS group, as expected, although not to the level of
statistical significance. The higher ratios of learners' filler tokens to both func-
tion and total tokens, compared with those of the JNS group, approached signifi-
cance at the level of .06 and .08,respectively. Interestingly, however, the relative
frequencies of the individual filler items were quite similar among all three
groups, with ano(o) easily the most frequent of the five listed for each group.
Perhaps even more interesting, however, was the relatively high frequency of
the English filler um.among native speakers of Japanese. This might have been
due, in part at least, to L2-induced interference resulting from the fact that all
five JNS subjects had lived in the United States for some time and were profi-
cient speakers of English as a second language.
Lexical Maintenance andAttrition \ 25
There was an overall 5.7% increase in the filler-to-function-token ratio
between Times 1 and 3 for ENS1, and a 10.7% increase in the filler-to-total-
token ratio. The ratios increased by 11.5% and 16.9% respectively for ENS2
over the same period. The increases were, however, not statistically significant.
A more comprehensive analysis of filler-, pause-, and repair-related behavior is
currently under way to determine whether any such evidence exists for a decline
in the subjects' oral fluency.
Finally, with regard to lexical strata, Table 5.6 (seeAppendix B) summarizes
the numbers of loan word types and tokens, English types and tokens, and the
ratios of each to total types and tokens; as mentioned previously, native Japanese
and Sino-Japanese word frequencies are not yet available. As seen in Table 5.6,
there were no significant differences between JNS and JSL groups with respect
to loan-word tokens, types, and loan-word-to-total-word ratios. There was, how-
ever, as expected, a difference between JNS and JSL groups with respect to the
use of English words (with English-to-total-token ratios ranging from 1.4%-
2.8% for the JSL groups and only 0.5%for the JNS group, and English-to-total-
type ratios ranging from 3.3%-6.8% for the JSL groups and only 1.3% for the
JNS group). Comparing JNS with JSL subjects at Time 1, even with the small
number of JNS subjects sampled, the differences were statistically significant in
every case but the English-to-total-token ratio, but only for JNS versus ENS1
(see Appendix B, Table 5.7). By Time 3, the differences between JNS and both
JSL groups were significant in every case, indicating a higher proportional use
of both English tokens and types by learners as opposed to native speakers of
Japanese.
For the JSL learner groups taken alone, both English-token-to-total-token and
English-type-to-total-type ratios increased from Time 1 to Time 3,significantly
so in the case of the token ratio (F = 4.05, p < .03), suggesting, perhaps, the
onset of attrition either in knowledge of the corresponding target-language lexi-
cal items or in the ability to access them in real time for production. For ENS1
subjects, the proportion of English tokens increased by 22.7% from Time 1 to
Time 3, while the corresponding increase in types was only 5%. For ENS2, there
was a 64.3% increase in the average proportion of English tokens used (although
the actual ratios were still very smallfrom 1.4%-2.3%) and a striking 66.7%
increase in the proportion of English types used. Between-group differences in
the rate of increased English token and type usage over time, however, were not
statistically significant, suggesting no benefit from formal instruction in fore-
stalling the use of English words.
Conclusions and Future Research
What can be concluded from the results discussed above? Of the variables
examined in this study, significant differences over time were found only in the
following areas: (1) a decrease in vocabulary size (measured in tokens, types,
and content tokens and types), (2) a decrease in the number of T-units and of
lexical error-free T-units, and (3) an increase in the ratio of English tokens to
126 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
total tokens dix B, Table 5.8). As outlined in the preceding section,
no significant evidence of attrition was found in any of the remaining variables,
including, for example, lexical variability (as reflected in type-token ratios), lex-
ical density (expressed as the ratio of content to total tokens and types), lexical
errors per T-unit, tokens per error-free T-unit, the relative frequency of filler
words, loan words, and so forth. Nor was there any significantevidence that for-
mal instruction had a differential effect on the course of the limited amount of
attrition that was found to occur. Let us briefly review each of the above points.
First, with regard to vocabulary size, to the extent that productive vocabulary
size is reflected in the total number of tokens and types, the results of this study
are consistent with the findings of Cohen (1989) for L3 Portuguese mentioned
above. As shown in Table 5.1, there was indeed a decrease in the total number of
both tokens and types for the two JSL groups taken together, from Time 1
through Time 3 (significant to the .01 level in the case of tokens and the .04 level
in the case of types), although the magnitude of the decrease was small for
Group 2 learners, at least with respect to the total number of types.
Caution must, of course, be exercised when interpreting differences in token
and type counts as evidence for change in productive vocabulary size. The
greater the latitude given to subjects in an oral production task, both topically
and temporally, the greater the possibility of subjects' avoiding difficult struc-
tures and vocabulary words, for example, that the learner might have difficulty
retrieving for active use but might nevertheless recognize in a receptive task
(Hakuta & d'Andrea 1992; de Bot & Weltens 1995). Although the present study
does place both time and topical constraints on the elicited data, the constraints
may not have been restrictive enough to force the subjects to the limits of their
productive vocabulary.
Second, with regard to the decline in the number of T-units and of lexical
error-free T-units, it is possible that this result reflects a loss of lexical accuracy,
but more likely it is merely a reflection of a decline in total output by the sub-
jects over time, as evidenced by the failure of any of the T-unit-adjusted mea-
sures of error frequency to achievesignificance.
Third,the-increased ratio of codeswitched English tokens to total tokens does
indeed suggest the existence of some degree of lexical attrition in the form of a
declining ability to retrieve the corresponding L2 forms under time constraints.
Whether this is an indication of actual lexical loss or whether it is, rather, merely
a reflection of increased difficulty of timely retrieval or access is, of course, a
matter of some current debate. At any rate, with the task time held constant at
four minutes per item for each of the three test administrations,both the decline
in vocabulary size and the increase in relative frequency of English tokens are at
least not inconsistent with the current view of many researchers that lexical
items, once acquired, are not necessarily lost but merely become less readily
accessible, requiring more time for retrieval and resulting, frequently, in the
increased use of codeswitching and other compensatory strategies (de Bot &
Weltens 1995).
The fact that the evidence of attrition was not more pervasive than it was may
be due to a variety of factors, some of which could not be directly examined nor
(see Appen
Lexical Maintenance and Attrition 127
fully controlled in this study. There is a strong possibility, as suggested in the lit-
erature, that both the ways in which L2 learners acquired their second languages
and the ultimate level of proficiency attained by learners might influence the
timing and the amount of L2 attrition during periods of disuse. Most of the stud-
ies of attrition that fall into the category of the loss of L2 or FL in an L1 environ-
ment, and which claim to have shown significant loss, seem to have dealt with
L2 acquired formally in the classroom in an L1 environment. The present study
differs from those in that the learners acquired the L2 informally and intensively
in the L2 environment over an extended period of time before returning to the L1
environment, a factor that might have minimized the possible effects of attrition.
With regard to proficiency level, it is also highly probable that the learners in
this study had acquired larger inventories of vocabulary than would have been
acquired by formal classroom learners of Japanese over the same length of time.
Since earlier studies have shown higher initial levels of proficiency to be corre-
lated with lower levels of attrition, as discussed by Nagasawa (see Chapter 8,
this volume), it is quite possible that the small amount of attrition shown in this
study results, in part at least, not only from the intensively informal conditions
under which the acquisition occurred but also from the relatively high levels of
lexical proficiencythat had likely already been acquired.
The potential problem of avoidance in production tasks was also alluded to
above. A more complete picture of lexical attrition among the subjects of this
study could be obtained by analyzingreceptive lexical data, which also exist for
many of the same subjects. As time and resources permit, further research is
envisioned in which we will examine the extent to which the subjects of this
study have maintained or lost the ability to recall the meanings of specific lexi-
cal items presented in a receptive task.
It might also be possible to expand the sample size of each subgroup of learn-
ers and to extend the analysis to include all subjects in the original, larger group
of subjects who participated in the project, although this would require an enor-
mous amount of additional time and resources. Even with the relatively small
number of subjects in the present analysis, several of the variables of interest fell
barely short of significance(variables relating, for example, to lexical density, to
frequencies of fillers, loan words, and English words, and to the effects of for-
mal instruction). If the same differences (though relatively small in absolute
terms) hold across a larger sample size, they may yet prove to be statistically
significant with the increased degrees of freedom. At any rate, further research is
certainly warranted in each of those areas. In fact, a more detailed analysis of
filler frequency, unfilled pause length, and other fluency-related hesitation and
repair behavior has already been undertaken on the basis of the present study,
with the preliminary finding, for instance, of a significant increase in hesitation
and unfilled pause time as a function of total speech time over the two-year
period of observation (Russell 1996).
With regard to the question of whether formal instruction would have a sig-
nificant effect on any of the variables of interest in the study, it was found that
there were significant differences between the two JSL groups (ENS1, without
formal instruction, and ENS2, with formal instruction) with respect to total
128 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
types, ontent types, lexical error-free T-units, tokens in error-free T-units, the
ratio of error-free T-units to total T-units, and loan-word types. There was, how-
ever, no significant interaction effect between groups over time. This result sug-
gests that there may have been significant preexisting differences between the
two groups which continued over time. With respect to lexical accuracy, for
instance, ENS2 (the formal instruction group) had a lower ratio of errors per T-
unit and significantly higher numbers of error-free T-units, tokens per error-free
T-unit, and error-free T-units in proportion to total T-units (see Appendix B,
Table 5.8).
In certain ways, at least, ENS2 subjects appear, in other words, to have had a
higher level of Japanese language ability from the start. This may reflect learner
variables that could not be controlled in this study, such as higher levels of moti-
vation and prior success in acquiring Japanese as an L2, which may have led
them, individually, to seek further instruction in the language in the first place.
As already stated, however, at least with respect to the factors in this study, there
appears to have been no significanteffect from formal instruction in altering the
extent to which productive lexical attrition may have occurred.
To conclude, there is, as discussed above, at least some minimal evidence of
lexical attrition in the data of this study, whether in the form of actual loss or,
perhaps more likely, in the form of increased difficulty of timely retrieval. The
lack of more compelling evidence for attrition does little to discourage the
notion of an "initial plateau" in language attrition, as proposed by Weltens &
van Els (1986) and others, according to which skill levels remain relatively sta-
ble during the first few years after the onset of disuse of the L2, after which
attrition may gradually begin to become more noticeable. The plateau metaphor
may, however, be misleading, inasmuch as it suggests a level state in which no
attrition is occurring at all. Even the modest evidence of the present study sug-
gests, however, that, if indeed there is such a plateau, it has already begun to tilt,
so to speak.
Finally, it is seldom possible in our field to have the degree of control over
variables that permits truly experimental designs. This study is no different in
that respect. The results of this study, however, do raise interesting questions for
further, more focused research into questions of L2 lexical attrition, answers to
which promise to have not only theoretical but important practical implications
as well.
Lexical Maintenance and Attrition 129
Appendix A
Questions used in oral monologue elicitation tasks:
(1) You are talking with a close friend and he/she asks you what your plans
are over the next few years. Explain in detail what you expect or wish to be
doing over the next five to ten years. You may wish to include a discussion of
your goals and plans in some of the following areas: education, career, marriage
and family, where you wish to live, special interests, etcetera.
(2) You are an exchange student in a Japanese university and have been
invited to a gathering of fellow (mostly native Japanese) students. Everyone is
taking turns introducing themselves. It is now your turn. Please tell everyone
your name and where you are from. Tell them about your family, about your
school and work experiences, your hobbies and interests, and anything else
about yourself or your family that you would care to.
(3) You are sitting in an airplane on your way home from Japan to the United
States. Sitting next to you is a young Japanese man who is being sent to America
as a representative of his company. You strike up a conversation with him and he
begins asking you about America and what he can expect there that will be dif-
ferent from his country. Based on your knowledge of Japan and your experience
living there, tell him all you can about the differences between American and
Japanese society and culture. You might talk, for example, about differences in
work, food, housing, holidays, personal characteristics, the economy, sports, or
anything else that occurs to you as being relevant.
Appendix B
Table 5.1. Means for Tokens, Types, and Type-Token Ratio
Tokens
Types
Type-Token Ratios
Tokens
Types
Type-Token Ratios
Tokens
Types
Type-Token Ratios
Tokens
Types
CNT/Total Tokens
CNT/Total Types
Tokens
Types
CNT/Total Tokens
CNT/Total Types
Tokens
Types
CNT/Total Tokens
CNT/Total Types
Time 1
958.5
259.7
.284
1097.0
299.5
.280
1151.2
357.2
.326
Time 1
CNT FNC
523.5 435.0
226.3 33.5
.546
.868
603.8 493.2
264.3 35.2
.548
.881
649.2 501.8
309.8 46.0
.566
.870
Time 2
ENS1
887.9
247.4
.286
ENS2
1008.6
299.1
.303
JNS
Time 2
CNT FNC
ENS1
465.1 422.8
211.3 36.1
.520
.850
ENS2
541.4 467.2
258.4 40.7
.541
.862
JNS
Time3
803.3
227.2
.287
999.4
286.7
.298
Time 3
CNT
420.1
193.3
.520
.846
537.2
251.7
.539
.873
FNC
383.2
33.9
462.2
35.0
Notes: ENS1 = English Native Speaker Group 1 (n = 10)
ENS2 = English Native Speaker Group 2 (n = 10)
JNS = Japanese Native Speaker Group (n = 5)
CNT = Total content words used
FNC = Total function words used
130
Table 5.2. Means for Lexical Errors and T-Unit-Adjusted Error Rates
Time 1 Time 3
Tokens
T-Units
Tokens/T-Units
Lexical Errors
Errors/T-Unit
Error-free T-Units
Tokens in Error-free T-Units
Tokens/Error-free T-Units
Error-free T-Units/Tot. T-Units
Tokens
T-Units
Tokens/T-Units
Lexical Errors
Errors/T-Unit
Error-free T-Units
Tokens in Error-free T-Units
Tokens/Error-free.T-Units
Error-free T-Units/Tot.T-Units
Tokens
T-Units
Tokens/T-Units
958.5
80.0
12.0
165.8
2.1
13.9
104.5
7.5
.171
1097.0
99.1
11.2
144.7
1.5
26.8
217.7
8.1
.277
1151.2
66.6
17.7
ENS1
(896.4)*
(73.7)
(12.1)
(159.2)
(2.1)
(11.8)
(89.9)
(7.5)
(.163)
ENS2
JNS
803.3
70.1
11.6
136.5
2.0
13.1
97.3
7.7
.170
999.4
84.6
11.9
133.4
1.6
22.3
172.8
7.5
.262
(778.7)
(64.9)
(11.9)
(141.3)
(2.1)
(8.1)
(61.1)
(7.7)
(.134)
Notes: ENS1 = English Native Speaker Group I (n = 10)
ENS2 = English Native Speaker Group 2 (n = 10)
JNS = Japanese NativeSpeaker Group (n = 5)
*Calculations in parentheses are based on the exclusion of an outlier's data from ENS1, n = 9
131
Table 5.3. Adjusted Word Frequency Orders (JNS vs. ENSl, ENS2)
Word
no
ni
to
wa
ga
0
de
desu
koto
watashi
mo
iu
keredomo
nihon
kara
mata
amerika
ne
sono
soshite
no-de
omoimasu
ima
ano
um
JNS
1
2
3
4
5.5
5.5
7
8
9
10
11.5
11.5
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20.5
20.5
22
23
24
25
ENS1/T1
2
3
4
1
6
8
10
7
9
11.5
24
17
20
15.5
14
23
15.5
11.5
22
21
25
19
18
5
13
ENS1/T3
3
5
4
1
7
9
8
6
10
11
20
15
16
18
13
24
19
12
22
23
25
14
21
2
17
ENS2/T1
3
2
5
1
6
9
10
4
11
12
13
22
16
15
19
24
18
7
20
21
25
17
23
8
14
ENS2/T3
2
3
4
1
5.5
9
8
5.5
13
11
21
17
19
16
18
24
14
10
20
22
25
15
23
7
12
Notes: ENSl = English Native Speaker Group 1
ENS2 = English Native Speaker Group 2
JNS = Japanese Native Speaker Group
Tl = Time 1
T3 = Time 3
Table 5.4.Spearman Rank-Order Correlations for Word
Frequency Orders*
JNS
JNS
ENS1/T1
ENS1/T3
ENS2/T1
ENS2/T3
ENS1/T1 ENS1/T3
.641 .648
.949
ENS2/T1
.688
.894
N/C
ENS2/T3
.659
N/C
.943
.942
Notes: ENSl = English Native Speaker Group 1
ENS2 = English Native Speaker Group 2
JNS = Japanese Native Speaker Group
Tl =Time 1
T3 = Time 3
N/C = Not calculated
*Rhocrit = 0.526 (n = 25)
132
Table 5.5. Means for Fillers and Filler-Token Ratios
a(a)
ano(o)
e(e)
eeto
um
Filler Tokens
Filler Tokens/Function Tokens
Filler Tokens/Total Tokens
a(a)
ano(o)
e(e)
eeto
um
Filler Tokens
Filler Tokens/Function Tokens
Filler Tokens/Total Tokens
a(a)
ano(o)
e(e)
eeto
um
Filler Tokens
Filler Tokens/Function Tokens
Filler Tokens/Total Tokens
Time 1
1.6
47.8
0.4
11.1
14.6
75.5
.175
.084
2.1
39.9
2.8
11.4
19.0
75.2
.156
.071
2.4
13.0
1.8
1.0
7.8
26.0
.045
.019
Time 2
ENS1
3.4
59.2
0.6
11.5
12.1
86.8
.205
.098
ENS2
4.1
27.8
2.3
9.1
29.5
72.8
.156
.072
JNS
Time 3
2.7
46.7
3.3
5.7
11.7
70.1
.185
.093
5.4
37.3
3.8
7.2
28.6
82.3
.174
.083
Notes: ENS1 = English Native Speaker Group 1 (n = 10)
ENS2 = English Native Speaker Group 2 (n = 10)
JNS = Japanese Native Speaker Group (n = 5)
a(a), ano(o), e(e), and eeto are Japanese filler words that occurred most frequently
in the data; um is an English filler word that also occurred frequently in the data.
133
Table 5.6. Means for Loan Words, English Words, and Ratios
vs. Tokens and Types
Loan Word Tokens
Loan Words/Total Tokens
Loan Word Types
Loan Words/Total Types
English Word Tokens
English Words/Total Tokens
English Word Types
English Words/Total Types
Loan Word Tokens
Loan Words/Total Tokens
Loan Word Types
Loan Words/Total Types
English Word Tokens
English Words/Total Tokens
English Word Types
English Words/Total Types
Loan Word Tokens
Loan Words/Total Tokens
Loan Word Types
Loan Words/Total Types
English Word Tokens
English Words/Total Tokens
English Word Types
English Words/Total Types
Time 1
26.0
.028
10.1
.040
18.8
.022
14.4
.060
30.9
.029
13.1
.044
15.2
.014
9.7
.033
31.6
.028
16.8
.046
5.6
.005
4.8
.013
Time 2
ENS1
24.2
.027
9.2
.037
23.4
.028
16.1
.068
ENS2
30.8
.031
14.6
.049
19.2
.019
12.7
.041
JNS
Time 3
27.2
.037
11.0
.050
20.3
.027
14.0
.063
31.4
.035
12.5
.046
23.5
.023
15.8
.055
Notes: ENS1 = English Native Speaker Group 1(n = 10)
ENS2 = English Native Speaker Group 2 (n = 10)
JNS = Japanese Native Speaker Group (n = 5)
English Word means above do not include data for the English filler um.
134
Table 5.7. Summary of Variables, Significance Values (JNS vs. ENS1, ENS2)*
Variable
Tokens
Types
Type-Token Ratio
Content Tokens
Content Types
Content-Total Tokens Ratio
Content-Total Types Ratio
T-Units
Tokens-T-Unit Ratio
Filler Tokens
Filler-Function Tokens Ratio
Filler-Total Tokens Ratio
Loan Word Tokens
Loan Word-Total Tokens Ratio
Loan Word Types
Loan Word-Total Types Ratio
English Word Tokens
English Word-Total Tokens Ratio
English Word Types
English Word-Total Types Ratio
df
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
SS
156870.86
32007.24
0.06
30826.35
11930.50
0.00
0.00
3930.86
154.39
9742.14
0.06
0.01
159.74
0.00
153.16
0.00
584.64
0.00
320.70
0.01
F
0.80
4.60
1.35
0.91
4.08
0.62
1.62
2.77
26.41
2.34
3.17
2.90
1.02
0.06
3.07
0.27
4.15
2.12
4.34
5.13
Scheffe
n.s.
ElxJ*
n.s.
n.s.
ElxJ*
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
ElxJ*,E2xJ*
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
ElxJ*
n.s.
ElxJ*
ElxJ*
Notes: The above data are derived from the application of ANOVA with repeated measures, the general linear
model (GLM). The source of variance in each case is the category of Group, with three levels: E(NS)1 (English
Native Speaker Group 1, n = 10), E(NS)2 (English Native Speaker Group 2, n = 10), and J(NS) (Japanese Native
Speaker Group, n = 5).
*p .05
135
Table 5.8. Summary of Variables, Significance Values (ENSl, ENS2 x Tl, T2, T3)*
Variable
Tokens
Types
Type-Token
Ratio
Content
Tokens
Content
Types
Content-
Tot. Tokens
Ratio
Content-
Tot. Types
Ratio
T-Units
Tokens-
T-Unit
Ratio
Lexical
Errors
Lexical
Errors per
T-Unit
Lexical
Error-Free
T-Units
Variance df
Group 1
Time 2
Group x Time 2
Group 1
Time 2
Group x Time 2
Group 1
Time 2
Group x Time 2
Group 1
Time 2
Group x Time 2
Group 1
Time 2
Group x Time 2
Group 1
Time 2
Group x Time 2
Group 1
Time 2
Group x Time 2
Group 1
Time 1
Group x Time 1
Group 1
Time 1
Group x Time 1
Group 1
Time 1
Group x Time 1
Group 1
Time 1
Group x Time 1
Group 1
Time 1
Group x Time 1
SS
345496.82
163312.13
15532.93
38001.67
5460.23
984.23
0.00
0.00
0.00
124852.82
76522.13
5058.13
34320.42
5210.43
1044.43
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.01
0.00
0.00
2822.40
488.40
52.90
0.66
0.31
3.65
1464.10
4120.90
810.00
2.48
0.02
0.11
1221.03
70.23
34.23
(4826.89)
(1320.42)
(77.55)
(2.05)
(0.90)
(2.36)
(1194.28)
(1975.68)
(102.82)
(3.28)
(0.08)
(0.04)
(2020.95)
(160.11)
(1.64)
F
1.79
4.89
0.46
4.91
3.59
0.65
0.20
1.46
0.81
1.85
8.28
0.55
4.98
3.73
0.75
0.73
2.87
0.73
3.48
0.03
0.71
2.16
19.20
0.68
0.13
0.11
1.27
0.23
4.10
0.81
4.65
0.12
0.74
5.13
1.72
0.84
Scheffe
n.s.
TlxT3*
n.s.
ElxE2*
TlxT3*
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
TlxT2,T3*
n.s.
ElxE2*
TlxT3*
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
(4.68)
(16.76)
(0.98)
(0.43)
(0.31)
(0.81)
(0.18)
(2.74)
(0.14)
(6.87)
(0.54)
(0.26)
(17.08)
(7.47)
(0.08)
n.s.
n.s.
TlxT3
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
ElxE2*
n.s.
n.s.
ElxE2*
n.s.
n.s.
(ElxE2*)
(TlxT3*)
(n.s.)
(n.s.)
(n.s.)
(n.s.)
(n.s.)
(n.s.)
(n.s.)
(ElxE2*)
(n.s.)
(n.s.)
(ElxE2*)
(TlxT3*)
(n.s.)
136
Table 5.8. (continued)
Variable
Tokens in
Error-Free
T-Units
Tokens per
Error-Free
T-Unit
Error-Free
T-U.-Tot.
T-U. Ratio
Filler
Tokens
Filler-
Function
Tokn. Ratio
Filler-
Tot. Tokens
Ratio
Loan Word
Tokens
Loan Word-
Tot. Tokens
Ratio
Loan Word
Types
Loan Word-
Tot. Types
Ratio
English Word
Tokens
English Word-
Tot. Tokens
Ratio
Variance
Group
Time
Group x Time
Group
Time
Group x Time
Group
Time
Group x Time
Group
Timel
Group x Time
Group
Time
Group xTime
Group
Time
Group x Time
Group
Time
Group x Time
Group
Time
Group x Time
Group
Time
Group x Time
Group
Time
Group x Time
Group
Timel
Group x Time
Group
Time
Group x Time
df
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
2
1
2
2
1
2
2
1
2
2
1
2
2
1
2
2
1
2
2
1
2
2
1
2
2
SS
88924.90
6760.00
3534.40
0.47
0.52
1.51
0.10
0.00
0.00
7.35
223.23
1717.30
0.01
0.00
0.00
0.01
0.00
0.00
464.82
17.43
32.23
0.00
0.00
0.00
163.35
0.90
38.70
0.00
0.00
0.00
35.27
285.73
168.93
0.00
0.00
0.00
(135739.80)
(13153.92)
(608.00)
(0.29)
(0.58)
(1.44)
(0.14)
(0.00)
(0.00)
F
6.02
2.56
1.34
0.25
0.23
0.66
7.63
0.10
0.08
0.00
0.10
0.79
0.44
0.35
1.08
0.58
0.80
1.10
3.35
0.10
0.18
0.07
1.34
0.24
7.63
0.03
1.44
0.53
0.99
1.67
0.13
2.48
1.47
2.45
4.05
0.61
(15.41)
(8.43)
(0.39)
(0.15)
(0.24)
(0.59)
(16.41)
(0.98)
(0.11)
Schefffe
ElxE2* (ElxE2*)
n.s. (ElxE2*)
n.s. (n.s.)
n.s. (n.s.)
n.s. (n.s.)
n.s. (n.s.)
ElxE2* (ElxE2*)
n.s. (n.s.)
n.s. (n.s.)
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
ElxE2*
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
TlxT3*
n.s.
(continued)
137
Table 5.8. (continued)
Variable Variance df
English Word Group 1
Types Time 2
Group x Time 2
English Word- Group 1
Tot. Types Time 2
Ratio Group x Time 2
SS
66.15
92.63
118.30
0.01
0.00
0.00
F
0.69
1.52
1.94
3.86
2.00
1.37
Scheffe
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
n.s.
Notes. The above data are derived from the application of ANOVA with repeated measures.
E(NS)1 = English Native Speaker Group 1(n=10)
E(NS)2 = English Native Speaker Group 2 (n=10)
Tl = Time 1;T2 = Time 2; T3 = Time 3
*p .05
138
Lexical Maintenance and Attrition 139
Notes
1. For an excellent review of L2 attrition-related research conducted through the mid-
1980s, see Weltens (1987). For a review of more recent research in the field, see de Bot
& Weltens (1995). Recent work and theoretical issues in the area of attrition are also
discussed in the introductionto this volume, written by Hansen & Reetz-Kurashige.
2. See again Weltens (1987), Weltens &. Cohen (1989), and de Bot & Weltens (1995)
for a review of attrition-related studies, many of which deal with variables of the
type noted here.
3. Cohen (1989) found some evidence of L3 loss in the form of both a decrease in the
number of types and a decrease in the number of tokens but apparently not, however,
in the ratios of types to tokens.
4. The notion of a T-unit is widely attributed to Kellogg Hunt (1965), who used it in the
analysis of L1 acquisition data. In general, a T-unit refers to an independent or main
clause, including any subordinate clauses embedded within it. Operationally, it is
sometimes difficult in Japanese to establish whether a clause (for example, one end-
ing with a predicate in the -te form) should be considered a subordinate clause (and
therefore part of a larger T-unit) or a coordinate clause (and therefore a separate T-
unit itself). As a rule, nonfinal clauses ending with the -te form were taken to be sub-
ordinate to the extent that they seemed semantically linked to the subsequent predi-
cate(S). A sentence such asjisho o motte ikimashita ("I] took [my] dictionary"), for
instance, would rather clearly be counted as a single T-unit, because of the colloca-
tional nature of the complex predicate motte ik-. On the other hand, sentences of the
form [S1 ... -te, S2] which corresponded closely to English sentences of the form
[S1 . .., and (then) S2] were counted as twoT-units.
5. There were only a few female subjects among the original 80 from which the subset
of 20 was to be randomly selected. To control for the possibility of gender-related
variation, these were eliminated prior to selection.
6. The only Japanese native speakers whose data were available for comparative pur-
poses consisted of three female and two male speakers. All five JNS subjects were
international students at Brigham Young University and had lived in the United
States for varying lengths of time. There is the possibility of a small amount of gen-
der-based variation in our sample, but its effects are likely minimal for most of the
factors under consideration. The possibility of variation due to the subjects' extended
residence in the United States must also be considered.
7. The segmentation of Japanese text into "words" is traditionally difficult because of
conflicting notions of what constitutes a word in the language. Text segmentation for
the present study followed roughly the conventions used in the romanized transcrip-
tions of Japanese found in Jorden (1987). Notably, for instance, case particles and
other bound forms that would be treated as part of the larger bunsetsu unit in a tradi-
tional analysis were segmented as separate words in the present study. Also as in Jor-
den, Sino-Japanese verbs such as benkyoo-suru "to study" (literally "study-do") were
hyphenated and treated as a unit for descriptive and statistical purposes. For consis-
tency and also to distinguish between the auxiliary and main verb instances of iru
"to be," however, forms such as benkyoo-shite-iru "to be studying" were also treated
as a unit (in contrast with the Jorden segmentation, benkyoo-shite iru). Finally,
although syntacticallycomplex, forms such as benkyoo-saseru "to cause to study"
were also treated lexically as a unit (as in Jorden).
8. Several analyses of L2 lexical performance have been attempted in recent years (e.g.,
140 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
Zimmermann 1987; Downing 1980; and Teemant 1988). Of those that have focused
specifically on the analysis of "errors," the categorization of errors has ranged from
rather mechanical, form-centered errors (e.g., orthographic and phonetic or phone-
mic errors) to errors bordering on the syntactic domain (e.g., collocational errors and
errors in the use of various function words), as well as to more abstract, semantic-
feature-based errors. Still other analyses (including one by Cohen 1989, examining
attrition in lexical production) have examined strategies for lexical production,dis-
course contexts in which lexical errors occur, and so on.
1. Word sense (for content words; e.g., the use of the word aisatsu
"greeting"instead of jiko shookai, "self-introduction")
2. Collocation (e.g., the use of the verb toru, "take," in the phrase
shiken o toru, "take a test," instead of the idiomatically correct
shiken o ukeru, literally "receive a test")
3. Pragmatic style (e.g., the use of the copula da and other informal
predicates instead of the formal desu/-masu equivalents where
required, or the use of the polite otoosan, "father," to refer to one's
own father instead of the expected in-group form, chichi)
4. Postposition (e.g., Nihonjin *ni/to kekkon-shite-iru, "is married to a
Japanese person")
5. Inserted word (i.e., words inserted inappropriatelyorungrammati-
cally; e.g., the redundant use of yama in the sentence rokkii san-
myaku yama no mannaka ni aru, "[It's] right in the middle of the
Rocky Mountains")
6. Omitted word (i.e., words omitted inappropriatelyor ungrammati-
cally; e.g., the omission of the required nominalizern(o) in the sen-
tence ryuugaku-shite-iru desu, "[He's] studying abroad")
7. Function (i.e., inaccurate use of function words [other than postposi-
tions, covered in another category], or inappropriate tense or other
grammatical marking in spite of accurate lexical choice; e.g., the use
of kita, "came" instead of the required kuru "come" in the phrase
Nihon ni *kita/kuru mae wa . . ., "Before [I] came to Japan . . .")
8. Inflection (e.g., *taberoo to omoimasu instead of thegrammatically
accurate tabeyoo to omoimasu, "[I] think I'm going to eat")
9. English substitution (e.g., the use of "east coast" instead of the
Japanese equivalent higashi kaigan in the sentence Amerika no *east
coast/higashi kaigan no hoo ni sunde-imasu "[She] lives on the East
Coast in America")
10. Other (i.e., errors that could not clearly be assigned to any of the
above categories).
9. See Table 5.7 in Appendix B. As mentioned earlier, because of the large number of
variables, data relating to F-values and significance levels are summarized in
Appendix B, Table 5.7 (for comparisons between JSL and JNS groups) and Table 5.8
(for comparisons within and between JSL learner groups).
10. As the detailed grammatical frequency analysis is still in progress, it was not possi-
ble in this table to account for intracategorial or even intercategorial differences in
function for each item. For example, the uses of to as nominal conjunction, quotative
particle, and subordinate conjunction could not be distinguished.In such cases, how-
ever, one or another of the functions generally occurs with such great frequency that
Lexical Maintenance and Attrition 141
little or no change would have resulted in the rankings even if such distinctions had
been possible at this stage. In the case of ano, for example, there are two possible
functionsas a filler expression and as a prenominal demonstrative. In fact, how-
ever, the demonstrativeuse of ano occurs very rarely in the data.
6
Not a Total Loss:
The Attrition of Japanese Negation over Three Decades
Lynne Hansen
Little is known of the effect on a language of long-term discontinuation or
reduction of its use. The fledgling field of language attrition, not yet two
decades old, has seen few longitudinal studies over extended periods (but see
de Bot & Clyne 1989). Some information on attrition over several decades is
available, however, from cross-sectional studies of the first language (L1) loss
of immigrants (de Bot et al. 1991) and of forgetting a second language (L2)
learned at school (Bahrick 1984a, b; de Bot & Lintsen 1986; Grendel et al.
1995). This chapter provides new perspectives on long-term attrition through
an examination after several decades of a second language that had been
acquired in a natural milieu. Through an analytical focus on negated structures,
evidence is brought to bear on theories of regression and critical thresholds in
L2 attrition.
One of the principal insights gained from recent work in language acquisition
is the existence of developmental stages in the learning of grammar. Thus it was
natural for language attrition researchers to ask whether the same stages are tra-
versed in reverse order as a language is forgotten. This notion of language loss
as a mirror opposite of language learning is not a new one in linguistics. Jakob-
son's (1941) monograph on the parallels between diachronic language change,
L1 acquisition, and aphasia portrayed language loss as an unfolding in reverse
order of previously acquired forms. In the language attrition literature this view
has come to be known as the regression hypothesis (see Chapter 1, this volume
for a brief review; for a more detailed historical overview of relevant research,
see de Bot and Weltens 1991).
Surprisingly little research has been done to test a hypothesis that has
attracted the attention of linguists over half a century. Although some earlier
investigations examined, in a peripheral way, the existence of regression in the
morphosyntax of attriting languages (Cohen 1975; Ervin-Tripp 1974; Hansen
142
The Attritionof Japanese Negation 143
1980; Godsall-Myers 1981), only recently has the hypothesis become a central
focus of a few studies (de Bot & Lintsen 1989; Hedgcock 1991; Jordens et al.
1989; Olshtain 1989).
The requirements that have to be met in studying regression may have had a
constraining effect on investigation in the past. For one thing, only those linguis-
tic structures that appear to develop gradually and in a fixed order can be used, a
relatively small number of phenomena (Ellis 1994). Furthermore, language
acquisition research has shown no reliable connection between the sequencing
of input and the order of acquisition. Thus, to test for regression in particular
subjects, one needs information on their acquisition sequences in the attriting
language, or such evidence must at least be available from highly comparable
groups. An additional requirement is assessments of the proficiency levels origi-
nally attained by the attriters or by comparable groups.
"The higher the proficiency level, the better the language retention" is one of
the generalizations emerging from recent attrition research (for a review, see
Chapter 1, this volume). In other words, those who are more proficient will be
less vulnerable to loss. In connection with this finding, a critical threshold of
language proficiency has been suggested beyond which language skills are
durable even under circumstances of drastic reduction of exposure (Neisser
1984). Ishiguro (1994) postulates two such thresholds, one for productive skills
and a separate one for receptive. Rather than one or two critical threshholds, one
might also posit a continuum of proficiency levels that relate to retention. In this
view, we would expect to find differences in L2 durability even between very
proficient groups of learners who had achieved varying high levels of language
proficiency. In examining the L2 attrition of such learners of Japanese, the pre-
sent study focuses on negation, an aspect of morphosyntax acquired gradually in
a sequence of stages and thus well suited for the study of languageregression.
The attrition of negation in Japanese is of particular interest because of the
typological difference between this language and others that have been exam-
ined in attrition studies. In Japanese the negators used for propositional negation
are bound morphemes suffixed to the element being negated.2
This negated
predicate can be a verb, noun, nominal adjective, or adjective. Japanese features
numerous different negative morphemes, and the particular one used depends
on the tense, nonpast or past, as well as the politeness level, informal or formal.
The resulting complexity in Japanese negation is shown in Table 6.1.
Japanese verbal morphology is agglutinative, with inflectional suffixes mark-
ing tense, aspect, voice, mood, negation, causation, conditionality, and so forth.
As Table 6.1 shows, for verbs the expression of negation in nonpast informal
utterances is accomplished by the attachment of the negative suffix -nai to the
verb stem; in past informal -nakatta is attached to the stem. In formal nonpast
the ending -masu is inflected to the negative form, -masen; past tense is formed
by adding -deshita, the past tense of formal copula -desu. An alternative way of
expressing negation in formal style is to simply add the formal copula -desu to
each of the informal nonpast or past forms.
To negate nouns in the informal style in Japanese, -ja-nai is added to nonpast
tense forms, -ja-nakatta to past tense. In formal style nominal expressions, -ari-
144 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
Table 6.1. Negation Patterns in Japanese
Nonpast
Past
Informal
V-nai
N-ja-nai
NA-ja-nai
A-ku-nai
V-nakatta
N-ja-nakatta
NA-ja-nakatta
A-ku-nakatta
Formal
V-masen
V-nai-desu
N-ja-arimasen
N-ja-nai-desu
NA-ja-arimasen
N-ja-nai-desu
A-ku-arimasen
A-ku-nai-desu
V-masen-deshita
V-nakatta-desu
N-ja-nakatta-deshita
N-ja-nakatta-desu
NA-ja-nakatta-deshita
N-ja-nakatta-desu
A-ku-arimasen-deshita
A-ku-nakatta-desu
masen replaces informal negator -nai in sentence-final position. Formal past
negation is formed with the addition of -deshita.
Two morphological classes of adjectives exist in Japanese, regular adjectives
(A) and nominal adjectives (NA). The latter have the same negation patterns as
for nouns. That is, to express negation, NA is followed by -ja plus negator -nai.
For past tense -nai changes to -nakatta. The patterns for formal-style nominal
adjectives in the negative are the same as for nouns.
All regular adjectives end with the vowel -i. In the negative the -i is dropped
and the adjective inflected to its -ku form, followed by negator -nai in final posi-
tion. For past tense negation nai is inflected to nakatta. In formal style a negative
adjective is formed by adding the formal negator arimasen to the -ku adjectival
inflection. An alternative way of forming the formal style negation is simply to
add desu to the informal negative forms, as in the case of verbal negation.
Negated structures develop hand-in-hand with other aspects of the language
in a succession of stages, furnishing evidence on a learner's level of develop-
ment. In addition to a body of research on children's L1 acquisition of Japanese
negation (see Clancy 1985 for an overview), investigations have recently
focused on the sequence of stages traversed by English-speaking learners of
Japanese as a second language (Hansen-Strain & Iwata 1992; Hansen-Strain
1992; Kanagy 1991; 1994), including one on the same population of adults
examined in the present attrition study (Hansen, in preparation). Thus, a prime
requisite for testing the regression hypothesis can be met: Acquisition data are
available from individualscomparable with the attriters.
In her investigation of 34 JSL learners in the United States, Kanagy (1991),
elicited oral production data containing negated structures four times over a six -
month period. From her analysis of these data the researcher found the acquisi-
tion order of Japanese negation by predicate category to be V-Neg and N-Neg->
The Attrition of Japanese Negation 145
A-Neg (NA-Neg and N-Neg are combined as one category in the analysis, per-
haps because the forms are identical). That is, verbal and nominal negation are
learned before adjectival negation. The nature of the errors that are reported to
persist in the adjectival forms is not clear from the discussion.
Evidence compatible with the order found by Kanagy (1991) is reported in
Hansen-Strain's (1992) study of the effects of a break in instruction on the L2
Japanese of high school students in Hawaii. Using the same negative elicitation
instrument as the present study, verbal negation in the speech of these teenagers
was found to be correct significantly more often than either nominal or adjecti-
val negation, with no evidence of loss over the summer vacation. In fact, in one
aspect of Japanese negation, tense, the subjects' utterances were more native like
after the break than before. The majority of errors on adjectival forms, both
before and after the break, were due to overgeneralization of one or a few forms
to all predicates. The most frequently used forms were -masen or -nai, the nega-
tors appropriate for verbal predicates.
More directly relevant to the research at hand, Hansen (in preparation) col-
lected cross-sectional data from over 200 missionaries learningJapanese in Japan,
representatives of the same population sampled in this investigation.Data from the
same elicitationtask, together with data from a story retelling, yields the following
order of acquisition: V-Neg -> N-Neg -> NA-Neg -> A-Neg. Based on these
findings, the attrition order of predicate categories in Japanese negation predicted
by regression theory isA-Neg -> NA-Neg -> N-Neg -> V-Neg.
With regard to the investigation of the attrition of Japanese negation, two
recent studies have examined groups of Americans who learned Japanese as a
second language in natural environments in Japan, one group comprised of chil-
dren (Hansen-Strain & Iwata 1992), the other of adults (Hansen-Strain 1992). A
longitudinal study of two children over two and a half years following their
return from Japan to the United States examined the attrition order of negation
by predicate category. Evidence is provided in both spontaneous and elicited
data from both children of a regression of forms as their second languagegradu-
ally began to deteriorate. The earliest errors, and the only ones found in negated
utterances for many months, were on adjectives and nominal adjectives, most
frequently involving substitution of an NA negator on an A form, but also a few
examples of substitution of an A negator on an NA form.
Similar evidence comes from speech samples collected over a two-year
period from recently returned missionaries who had served in Japan (a subset of
the pool of subjects also drawn from by Russell, this volume) (Hansen-Strain
1993). The attrition found in these longitudinal date is slight. The relatively few
errors in negation over time are all on adjectives and nominal adjectives as in
the speech of the children, lending support again to the notion that the last
learned is first forgotten.
The present study examines the loss of Japanese negation in more advanced
attriters. In so doing, the following questions are addressed:
(1) Does regression theory predict the patterns of long-term loss? That is, in
the forgetting of negated predicates is the attrition order: A-Neg and NA-Neg ->
N-Neg -> V-Neg?
146 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
(2) How do attrition levels of advanced learners of Japanese relate to the
lengths of time originally spent in intensive use of the language in Japan? And
how do their rates and stages of loss relate to notions of critical thresholds in L2
attrition?
Method
Subjects
The subjects were 30 middle-aged Americans who had learned Japanese
while working as missionaries in Japan in their early twenties. Native speakers
of English with no previous exposure to Japanese, they acquired fluent compe-
tence of the spoken language through daily interaction with native speakers in
the target culture. These returned missionaries (RMs) with incubation periods
over 25 years were part of a pilot study for a larger investigation of the acquisi-
tion and attrition of Japanese by missionaries (Hansen, in preparation). As Table
6.2 shows, three subgroupswere selected based on length of time in Japan: (1)
10 women who had spent 24 months, (2) 10 men who had spent 30 months
(received mission calls after 1959), and (3) 10 men who spent 36 months
(received mission calls before 1959). The particular length of time in the target
culture for an individual was determined by the sponsoring church's policy at
the time of the mission call.3
An unusual attribute of these L2 learners was that, rather than being self-
selected, they were directed to learn a foreign language. The location of mis-
sionary activity is not known by an individualat the time of application to serve,
a large proportion of applicants being sent to English-speakingrather thanforeign
language areas. Upon completion of their missions, the subjects returned to an
English language environment in the western United States. Exposure to
Japanese after their return was reported as infrequent. Members of the popula-
tion who have Japanese spouses or who otherwise reported regular use of the
language were not included in the sample.
Data from two control groups were also collected: (1) 10 Japanese university
students in their early twenties, and (2) 32 American missionaries in their early
twenties who served two-year missions. They were tested within two months
before their release date in Japan or two months after it in the United States.
Table 6.2. Three Groups Based on Length of Exposure to Japanese
Group
1
2
3
n
10
10
10
Age
48-60
46-53
56-62
Sex
Female
male
male
Months in
Japan
24
30
36
Years since
Mission
25-34
25-32
33-37
The Attrition of Japanese Negation 147
Data Collection and Instrument
The data reported here were collected from returned missionaries in Utah dur-
ing June and July of 1993. Most were found through lists acquired from RM
groups and were contacted initially by telephone. Some were located by word of
mouth from other subjects at data collection times. Of those contacted, 94%
agreed to participate. This involved giving an hour of their time for the elicita-
tion tasks (in many cases the time actually spent was much longer), with a small
remuneration offered but most often declined.
The subjects were interviewed individually in their home, office, or in an
office on a university campus. After filling out a survey form, five elicitation
tasks were completed in the following order: (1) listening comprehensiontest,
(2) numeral classifier elicitation, (3) negative elicitation, (4) story retelling, and
(5) controlled oral monologues.
The present report is based on data from just one of these, the negative elici-
tation. In this task, sixteen drawings are used to elicit the 16 negation types illus-
trated in Table 6.1. Each drawing depicts a scene in which a "salary man," an
office worker named Tadao, is conversing with one of two interlocutors,either
his lifelong friend and coworker, Yuko, or his new boss, an older man, Mr.
Tanaka. The subject is asked to take the role of Tadao in the interactions. For
each of the six-teen items the scene is briefly described in English. Then the
investigator, taking the role of either Yuko or Mr. Tanaka, poses a question in
Japanese that would naturally be asked in the pictured situation and which
requires a negated response. Tadao's reply, supplied by the subject, is writtenon
an answer sheet by the investigator. The answers were later coded to yield sepa-
rate scores for accuracy of form, tense, and formality level4
and also for accu-
racy for the four predicate types: verb, noun, nominaladjective, and adjective.
Findings
Mean scores for form and tense on the negation elicitation task are given in
Table 6.3. Notice the group differences here which appear to lend support to the
hypothesis that the longer the exposure, the better the retention. The missionar-
ies who had been longest in Japan, Group 3, scored highest, even though they
had been away from a Japanese environment for the longest time. Group 1, who
had spent the shortest time in Japan, scored lowest. In scoring "form," a point is
given for any negator that would be grammatically correct on the given predi-
cate category (independent of the appropriateness of the tense). Notice in this
category that a significantdifference occurs at the >.01 level between Group 1
and Group 3; likewise for the total score between Group 1 and Groups 2 and 3.
The near-native scores of the recently released missionaries, tested within
two months of the completion of their 24 month missions, are useful in estab-
lishing the proficiency level achieved in Japanese negation by young adults after
two years as missionaries. From these data, supported by cross-sectional acqui-
sition data from the same population (reported in Hansen, in preparation), we
148 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
Table 6.3. Mean Scoresfor Form and Tense on the Negation Picture Task
Group 1
(24 months)
Form*
Tense
Total**
X
5.2
9.3
14.5
SD
.89
.97
.93
Group 2
(30 months)
X
9.5
12.2
21.7
SD
.70
.86
.78
Group3
(36 months)
x
12.2
11.6
23.8
SD
.68
.60
.64
Missionaries
(24 months)
X
15.3
15.3
30.6
SD
.55
.64
.59
Native
Speakers
X
16.0
15.4
31.4
SD
0
.32
.18
Notes: * > .01 between Group 1 and Group 3
** > .01 between Group 1and Groups 2, 3
assume that the subjects in the present study had acquired command of form and
tense in Japanese negated structures by the time they left Japan.
Table 6.4 shows scores separately for negation on each of the four predicate
types. With regard to the group differences shown between the returnedmission-
aries, we see a similar pattern to that shown in Table 6.3. Notice that for nega-
tion on nouns, scores are significantly lower for Group 1 than for Group 3; on
nominal adjectives scores are significantly lower for Group 1 than for Groups 2
and 3. Again, these data indicate that the big losers are the women in Group 1.
The advantage in retention apparently accrued to the males, Groups 2 and 3,
who experienced longer periods of exposure to Japanese.
On verbal negations, however, relatively high scores were recorded for all
three groups. For more advanced attriters, the default negators tend to have
become those used on verbs in the target language, resulting in relatively high
scores for this predicate type. Adjectival negation, on the other hand, exhibits
evidence of the greatest deterioration, with relatively low scores across groups.
Thus on Table 6.4 we see that the predictions of the regression hypothesis are
borne out. Negation formed on verbs, predicted to be lost last, is the most robust
Table 6.4. Mean Scores by Predicate Type on the Negation Picture Task
Group 1
(24 months)
Verb
Noun*
Nom. Adj.**
Adjective
X
6.1
2.1
1.8
1.2
SD
.86
1.03
1.76
1.92
Group 2
(30 months)
X
6.5
4.6
3.9
2.0
SD
5.60
.83
1.17
1.26
Group 3
(36 months)
X
6.4
5.4
4.4
2.2
SD
.54
.97
1.01
1.33
Missionaries
(24 months)
X
7.9
7.4
7.1
7.2
SD
.10
.34
.58
.53
Native
Speakers
X
8.0
7.9
7.7
7.8
SD
0
.21
.32
.25
* > .01 between Group I and Group 3
** > .01 between Group 1 and Groups 2, 3
The Attrition of Japanese Negation 149
for each of the groups; negation formed on adjectives, predicted to be lost first,
is least robust.
These data provide a basis for inferring an attrition sequence for Japanese
negation. Table 6.5 shows the number of subjects from each subgroup appearing
to be at each of four stages. Just one subject among the thirty has a "near-native"
score. He is also the only one among them who reported gaining and retaining
competence in written Japanese. The only regular L2 input reported over many
years had been his weekly attempts to read from the scriptures in Japanese, sug-
gesting the potential importance of,literacy as a factor in long-term retention.
The errors in negated structures produced by seven of the subjects are exclu-
sively on A-Neg, generally involving the substitutionof nominal adjectival (-ja)
forms for the appropriate adjectival (-ku) forms. For 18 of the respondents, the
A-Neg formsthe forms with kuhave disappeared from the spoken elicita-
tions. Again, these are most often replaced by the NA-Neg forms with ja-. These
subjects also make errors on nominal and nominal adjective forms but fewer
than on verbal negation. Four of the subjects, all in Group 1, had regressed to a
stage found in beginning learners (Hansen-Strain 1992), the overgeneralization
to one or two forms for all negated utterances. Interestingly, in each of these
cases V-Neg forms are used by the attriters, -nai or -masen or both.
Discussion
Order of Loss
In answer to the first research question concerning the order of loss of negated
predicates, the findings show an attrition sequence that is congruent with the
predictions of regression theory: A-Neg -> NA-Neg and N-Neg -> V-Neg. With
attrition orders as with acquisition orders, however, it is not sufficient to posit a
sequence without positing an explanation for that sequence.
Table 6.5. Stages in the Loss of Negation Forms in Japanese
1. Near-native forms
2. A-Neg form erosion
3. A-Neg form loss
Group 1


6
Group 2

3
7
Group 3
1
4
5
N- and NA- form erosion
4a. Overgeneralization 3  
(1 or 2 forms)
4b. Overgeneralization and L1 L1
word order
1
150 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
The question of causality arises: Does the process of acquisition determine
the process of attrition, or does the patterning of loss result from other con-
straints? Inasmuch as not all research findings have been as compatible with a
"first learned (or best learned), last forgotten" hypothesis as those reported in the
present study, the appropriate perspective appears not to be a dichotomous one.
That is, the question to be asked is no longer whether regression is operative in
the loss of grammatical structures (in some cases it appears to be, in others not),
but rather when and under what conditions its predictions hold true, and what
the causal mechanisms are.
Given the mixed evidence to date, it appears that when an attrition sequence
does mirror that of acquisition, as in the present study, the learning sequence
does not in and of itself provide the blueprint for language loss. Explanations
that attempt to ascribe singular causality for attrition orders seem destined to fail
in their narrowness of approach, as they do for acquisition orders. For an under-
standing of the whole picture in developmental sequences, various factors, in
addition to the sequence of acquisition, need to be explored, such as frequency
in the input, perceptual saliency, features of the attriting as well as the replacing
language, and considerations of markedness and language universals.
Relationships between developmental sequences in learners' language and
the frequency of forms in the target language input have been documented by a
number of L2-acquisition researchers (Gass & Lakshmanan 1991; Larsen-Free-
man 1976; Lightbown 1980). Similarly, in the present study, the comparative
frequency of negated forms in spoken Japanese predict the sequences traversed
in acquisition as well as attrition. Table 6.6 displays the frequencies in four oral
monologues collected from thirty recently returned missionaries who had
learned Japanese in Japan over a two year period5
(Hansen-Strain 1992).
Notice on Table 6.6 that the overwhelming majority of exemplars, 1,798 of
the 2,076 total negated utterances, are on verbsthe predicate type on which
negation is learned earliest. Based on considerations of frequency, it is not sur-
prising that verbal negation is also retained longest.
But what of the other three types which have much lower frequencies? The
adjectival arid nominal adjectival forms are difficult for English speakers to
learn because the single form-class "adjective" in English is divided into these
two seemingly arbitrary categories in Japanese. In attrition the question arises as
to why, for these attriters, the NA type tends to win out over the A type. In this
connection notice on Table 6.1 that both N-Neg and NA-Neg are appended by
the identical -ja forms, giving them double duty in the language. The resulting
increase in their salience6
appears to contribute to greater resilience of the -ja
forms in the speech of English-speaking attriters. This is apparent in the even-
tual superseding of the -ku forms by the more salient -ja in advanced stages of
attrition. The accuracy of the clear predictions arising from considerations of
frequency and salience suggests their potency in the interaction of elements
which shape the course of language progression and regression. It may be that
the more clear-cut the predictions of the contributing factors and the stronger
their convergence on a learning sequence, the greater the tendency will be for
that sequence to be inversely mirrored in the course of attrition.
The Attrition of Japanese Negation 151
Table 6.6. Negation Frequenciesby predicate Type
in Oral Elicitationsfrom 30 RMs
Verb Noun Nom. Adj Adj Total
Frequency 1,798 84 81 113 2,076
Critical Threshold
Our second research question concerns critical thresholds and the effects of
'time in Japan' on long-term retention. Through a comparison of three groups
differentiated by the amount of time originally spent in intensive use of Japanese
(24 months, 30 months, or 36 months), we find significant differences in their
maintenance of target language negated structures after several decades of
nonuse. The hypothesis that "the more you know, the less you lose" is sup-
ported. The ten men who had been away from Japan longest but had spent 36
months there tended to perform better on the negation task than the ten men who
had spent only 30 months. Both of these groups tended to perform better than
the ten women who had spent 24 months.
In addition to these group differences, the immense individual differences in
proficiency levels between the attriters are striking. Although such differences
must also have existed at the end of the acquisition period, it is also the case that
all of the subjects used Japanese every day for at least two years and were fluent
speakers of the language upon departure from Japan. Based on the control group
data, we assume that they all acquired the forms of Japanese negation. The
legacy of years of nonuse reported here, however, seems to indicate that a criti-
cal threshold that "confers immunity on forgetting," to use Neisser's (1984)
phrase, requires more than two years of daily language use in the target culture.
After three decades some of the female subjects seemed unable to spontaneously
produce anything more than a few numbers and formulaic expressions in the
language they had known so well, nor was their performance on an aural com-
prehension test much above the level of chance. While half of these women
were unable to do a story retelling task, all of the men who had spent three years
in Japan were able to do so. Thus it appears that an additional year of intensive
L2 exposure enhances considerably the prospects for long-term language main-
tenance.
Future Research
The design of the present study enables one to see the potential benefits of using
the returned missionary population for testing hypotheses in language attrition.
With regard to critical thresholds and the importance of proficiency level in
long-term retention, the investigation of a larger group with varying exposure
times may help substantiate the conclusionsof this small pilot study (Hansen, in
preparation).
152 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
Two confounded variables in the present study, "time in Japan" and "sex"
should be separated out in future work. While we have attributed lesser L2
maintenance of the females to their shorter period of exposure to Japanese, our
attention is also drawn to the possible effects of gender in L2 learning and loss,
particularly within the context of such a highly sex-differentiated language and
culture as that of Japan. Inasmuch as the languages of men and women in
Japanese are quite different, and because missionaries spend a large proportion
of their time with same-sex interlocutors, the possibility of gender influences in
acquisition and forgetting warrants investigation. Although sex differences in
input do not appear to be relevant for the acquisition of the negated structures
reported here (women presumably use the same proportions of negated forms in
speech as men do), there are areas of gender difference in spoken Japanese that
should be investigated in acquisition and attrition (e.g. vocabulary, and socio-
pragmatic aspects of language use).
The role of types of L2 exposure and instruction on language maintenance
could also be elucidated in studies of missionary language through comparisons
of the retention of groups who had two months of intensive L2 instruction at the
outset of their missions with groups who had none (as the subjects in the present
study). Nagasawa's (this volume) finding of an apparent disadvantage in reten-
tion for learners who experienced immersion with no explicit instruction during
their initial exposure to the language begs further investigation.
Another fertile area for investigation is the influence of literacy on keeping a
second language. Comparisons should be made between the L2 maintenance of
returned missionary groups who remain largely illiterate in their second lan-
guage during their period of service (such as those who learn Japanese and Chi-
nese) with groups who attain high levels of L2 literacy through daily reading
(such as those who learn Korean or numerous European languages). All in all,
the potential of an agenda for research on the attrition of missionary languages
can be summed up by a watchword of the missionaries, "the field is white
already to harvest."7
The Attrition of Japanese Negation 153
Notes
1. The title was suggested by Margit Waas.
2. The term "negator" is used differently in this chapter than by Japanese linguists in
their theoretical analyses of the language (McGloin 1986; Oishi 1986). For example,
in the construction A-ku-nai-desu, ku has been analyzed by linguists as a separate
morpheme, inflector of the A predicate, rather than as part of the negator. However,
because the analysis of learner data indicates that learners use -ku-nai-desu (or -ku-
arimasen, -ja-nai, etc.) as unanalysed chunks, our reference to "negators" in this
chapter will be to these chunks as distinct patterns of negation.
3. The sponsoring church was the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (the Mor-
mons). For an overview of missionary work in Japan during the period of service of
the subjects reported in this study, see Britsch (1992), Katanuma (1973), and Takagi
& Mclntyre (1996).
4. The data from the control group revealed that the instrument is less than effective in
its measurement of the "politeness" dimension. Therefore, the analysis reported here
includes only "form" and "tense."
5. The oral monologues were elicited from 30 recently returned missionaries. After
hearing a scenario description, the subjects were given four minutes to supply the
Japanese discourse appropriate to the situation. The frequencies in Table 6.6 are taken
from data elicited from four of the scenarios: (1) telling the story of Joseph Smith's
first vision to a Japanese couple, (2) explaining the reason for baptism to a young
Japanese man, (3) sharing plans for the next 5-10 years with a Japanese friend, and
(4) talking about the differences between American and Japanese culture and society
to a Japanese man met on an airplane. The monologues were audiotaped and tran-
scribed, and the negated structures were written on tally sheets for the analysis.Simi-
lar frequency proportions as shown in Table 6.7 were also found in data elicited in the
same way from a control group of ten native-speakingreturnedmissionaries.
6. Salience here is understood as "the availability of input," the definition given in a
recent discussion of markedness and salience in L2 acquisition(Bardovi-Harlig
1987).
7. "Lift up your eyes and look on the fields; for they are white already to harvest" was
said by Jesus as he called the attention of his disciples to an approachingmultitude of
Samaritans coming over the fields (John 4:35). Similarly, in modern revelations He
says, "Behold, the field is white already to harvest; therefore whoso desireth to reap,
let him thrust in his sickle with his might" (Doctrine & Covenants 6:3; see also 4:4;
11:3; 33:7). In these cases "white field" refers to an abundant harvest of souls. In the
present context, the "white field" analogy is used to refer to missionary populations in
the hundreds of thousands whose L2 loss could be investigated.
7
Testing the Regression Hypothesis:
The Remains of the Japanese Negation System in Micronesia
Brenda Hayashi
The present study is a replication of the research reported in the previous chap-
ter. Despite a growing trend over several decades toward quantitativeresearch in
applied linguistics, this important aspect of it, replication, has scarcely begun.
According to Santos (1989:700), "What is considered standard procedure (repli-
cation studies) in other disciplines that hypothesize, quantify, and generalize is
ignored in ours.. . . We have reached the point in applied linguistics where there
is enough research to make replication of some of it not only worthwhile, but
also necessary to advance the field." And in this same vein, Olshtain (1989:164),
at the conclusion of her article, "Is Second Language Attrition the Reversal of
Second Language Acquisition?" states that "it is only through comparison and
validation of previous work that attrition studies can progress and contribute to
the overall field of second language acquisition research."
In the spirit of these comments, the present study attempts to verify previous
findings on the progression and regression of Japanese negation. It is a replica-
tion of the study of the second language (L2) attrition of middle-aged Americans
reported by Hansen (see Chapter 6, this volume), carried out with elderly
Micronesian subjects who had been taught the language in their childhood dur-
ing the Japanese occupation of their islands. To begin with, some general infor-
mation on Micronesia is provided as background to the study.
Background on Micronesia
Japan started its moves to acquire Micronesia during World War I by declaring
war on Germany, the colonial ruler of the territory. By doing so, Japan placed
itself on the side of the victorious Allied forces. Once hostilities had ended, the
League of Nations formally mandated control of Micronesia to Japan, thusgiving
154
Testing the Regression Hypothesis 155
it a free hand to develop the infrastructure and administration necessary to
annex the area. Japan continued its rule of Micronesia for the next 30 years,
leaving the area only after being defeated in World War II and ousted from the
South Pacific1
by the victorious Americans.
Japanese administrators of Micronesia proudly asserted that the establish-
ment of a school system was one of their major accomplishments. The Microne-
sian pupils were first taught by Japanese naval officers and workers from
Nanyoo Kohatsu Company, but they were soon entrusted to trained civilian
teachers. Officials from the Ministry of Education set up policies and guidelines
for the instruction of the children and established elementary schools
(shoogakkoo) in each of the administrative stations in the South PacificJaluit,
Ponape, Truk, Saipan, Yap, and Palau.2
The pupils were given rudimentary
instruction in the Japanese language, arithmetic, music (i.e., singing), geogra-
phy, and the benevolence of the Japanese emperor (Shuster 1979:20; Peattie
1988:91), as well as a skill or handicraft (e.g., weaving or carving) that would
be useful in daily life.
In 1922, the South Seas government issued regulations for public schools that
reorganized the school system and educational guidelines; at the same time, it
declared that educational objectives for Micronesian children should be moral
guidance, knowledge necessary for improvement of their lives, and physical
development training.The school system for these children consisted of a basic
three-year primary education course (honka) in the "public schools" (koogakkoo),
with a supplementary two-year course (hoshuuka) for promising bright pupils.
Pupils started school around the age of eight; those who lived in atolls far away
often enrolled a year or two later. By this time there were seventeen public
schools for Micronesianstwo in Saipan, two in Yap, five in Palau, two in Truk,
four in Ponape, and two in Jaluit.
Theoretically, the curriculum of the native public school, the koogakkoo, was
similar to that of the Japanese primary school.3
But in reality, half of the school
hours during the three-year course were devoted to Japanese-language instruc-
tion. The language-heavy curriculum did include various content subjects, such
as geography, history, and science in addition to grammar and reading, yet all
the textbooks in the three-year honka course were language readers. The 1934
annual report to the League of Nations on the South Seas Islands under Japanese
mandate (Shuster 1979:23) describes the essential aim of the language teaching as
to teach ordinary words, characters in daily use and easy written language;
to make the pupils fluent in the practical application of what they have been
taught; to foster in them the ability to express themselves correctly in the
language, especially to enable them to acquire such degreeof mastery as
will enable them to experience no hindrance in using the language in daily
life, special stress being laid on practice; as well as to develop their intellec-
tual and moral capabilities.
In order to reach these objectives, the use of the vernacular was banned.
Although a grace period of three months to a year prevailed in the first year, cor-
poral punishment was meted out to any offending pupil.
156 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
In the supplemental two-year hoshuuka classes, emphasis was again on lan-
guage learning, but there was more world history, geography, science, arts, handi-
crafts, arithmetic, gardening or agriculture, and physical education. Most subjects
were taught by rote memorization and group reading of a passage was the method
used for teaching reading. Academic achievement was rewarded and failure pun-
ished either by beatings or the "opportunity" to perform demeaning chores.
For most Micronesian children, chances for formal education ended at the
end of the fifth year, upon graduation from the hoshuuka course. However, there
were some opportunities, albeit quite limited, for some of the luckier ones. For
example, some boys were able to go to enter the highly prestigious Carpentry
Apprentice Training School in Koror, Palau. Since only the top thirty studentsa
year were allowed to enroll in the two-year course at the school,4
time spent on
Japanese language instruction could be kept to a minimum and more time
devoted to the theory and practice of carpentry.5
Other lucky children were those
Micronesians who happened to have a Japanese parent or who were adopted by
a Japanese family; for them, further educational opportunities in secondary or
tertiary schooling were available in Japan.
By the 1930s, 24 koogakkoo had been established, and more than 50% of
Micronesian children were enrolled in school (but on the island of Palau the
number was close to 100%). For those living on the larger islands, education
was compulsory, but for those living on isolated atolls, formal education was
possible only if the village chief selected them to be sent to a larger island for
schooling. The non-Japanese mission schools were relegated to the role of sup-
plemental education once the South Seas governmentpermitted them to reopen;
although they had been allowed to serve as an alternative to the koogakkoo
before, they were no longer given the privilege once government-sponsored
public education took off in the 1920s.
How much language was actually acquired by the Micronesian pupils
through the koogakkoo system? The renowned colonial scholar and economist
Yanaihara Tadao visited the islands during the 1930s and reported that upon
graduation from hoshuuka, Micronesian pupils were able to read and write hira-
gana, the second of the three syllabic writing systems taught to Japanese, which
roughly corresponds with the level attained by native Japanese children in their
third year of elementary school (Yanaihara 1963a:333, and 1963b: 193-197).
From his observation of classrooms, he learned that the teachers used Japanese
as the medium of instruction and tried to avoid relying on interpretation by the
assistant teacher (i.e., the Micronesian jokyoin) as much as possible. His
account of a pupil recalling a terrifying event to his teacher not only illustrates
how the pupils learned enough Japanese to convey messages or stories but also
how use of the native language and interpretation was forbidden (with the unfor-
tunate result of the teacher sometimes misconstruing the meaning of the tale).
Critical of the koogakkoo system, Yanaihara goes on to say that the majority of
the pupils later forgot much of what they had learned in the schools because of
the lack of opportunity to use the language.
While the koogakkoo system itself did not provide opportunities to all pupils
to use Japanese after graduation, it did aim to train the children to read, in hope
Testing the Regression Hypothesis 157
that they could continue reading Japanese even after leaving school (Nanyoocho
1926:28). Sanchez (1984:48-50) states that the emphasis on reading and writing
in an intensive six-month course on Guam produced a group of pupils who
could act asjokyoin, the assistant teachers, and that they were able to converse
comfortably with Japanese officials. For regular pupils, restricting the curricu-
lum to reading and writing resulted in children who could read and write
katakana easily after their first year in school and converse with Japanese and
Saipanese interpreters using words, phrases, and sentences appropriate for their
age and language development.
The study
Recent studies such as those by Hansen (1993) and Kanagy (1994) examine the
complex negation system in Japanese (shown in detail in Table 6.1 in the previ-
ous chapter) and its acquisition by English-speaking learners of the language.
They found the following negation acquisition sequence: negation of verb (V-
Neg) -> negation of noun (N-Neg) -> negation of nominal adjective (NA-Neg)
-> negation of adjective (A-Neg)6
According to the regression hypothesis (see
review in Chapter 1), which states that the last learned is first forgotten, we
would then expect to find the following attrition order for L2 Japanese negation :
A-Neg -> NA-Neg -> N-Neg -> V-Neg. This is, in fact, the order that was
found for the American population sampled by Hansen (see Chapter 6). In addi-
tion, the L2 of the subjects who had spent the longest time in Japan, three years,
was more resilient to loss than that of those who spent only two years.
Unlike the subjects in the Hansen (1993) and Kanagy (1994) studies, how-
ever, the Micronesian subjects were children at the time of language training.
Their first language is also different. The purpose of the present study is to
address the question of whether the regression of negation in the speech of the
Micronesians has followed the same pattern as found in the previous studies: A-
Neg -> NA-Neg -> N-Neg -> V-Neg. Since some of the subjects spent three
years at Japanese schools (those who graduated from honka) and some spent
five years (those who continued on and graduated from hoshuuka), we will also
investigate whether the additional two years in school correlates with greater
retention of L2 negated structures.
Method
Subjects
Twenty-five elderly Micronesians who are former pupils of the koogakkoo sys-
tem (see Table 7.1 in Appendix) participated in this study. Some had lived on
islands with a large Japanese immigrant population, thus picking up a little
Japanese before going to school. But for the most part, their first serious
encounter with the Japanese language began when they started school, usually
158 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
around the age of eight. In the first three months or so, they were taught by a
Japanese teacher working in conjunction with an "assistant teacher," a bright
native Micronesian who had once been a pupil himself and could serve as a
facilitator and interpreter for both the teacher and the pupils. It was not expected
that the children would understand the teacher, and vice versa, so the grace
period of three months to a year was granted, during which the use of the ver-
nacular was not forbidden or punished.
Some subjects were required to go to a Japanese shrine to pray before going
to school. Activities at school started around 7:30 or 8:00, with everyone per-
forming calisthenics in the school yard, standing at attention as the Japanese flag
was raised, bowing in the direction of the Emperor's palace in Japan, singing the
Japanese anthem,7
followed by a speech given by the principal in which he
exhorted his charges to study hard and become good subjects of the emperor.
Lessons then commenced. Both principals and teachers frequently repeated
"rules" such as "Don't tell lies" or "Put things back in their proper place after
using them." In the lower grades, pupils went home in the afternoon; in the
upper grades, there were lessons after lunch and then time for "practical train-
ing" such as farmwork. Many of the subjects ran errands for Japanese people
after school, thus making a little pocket money and having opportunities to actu-
ally use the language they were being taught in school.
By the time children left the three-year honka course, they had been taught
the two syllabic writing systems, katakana and hiragana, as well as easy kanji
(in that order). As mentioned previously, the textbooks were used as language
readers but covered a variety of subjects: arithmetic, history, geography, natural
sciences, and ethics. The textbooks used in the hoshuuka followed a similar pat-
tern. The textbooks used by the subjects differed slightly, depending on which
version their teachers used; some of the periodically revised texts included chap-
ters in which topics related to Micronesian customs or life were included.
Opportunities for employment under the Japanese were available for the sub-
jects who lived in areas where there was a large Japanese presence.
Few, if any, chances to use the Japanese language were available to the sub-
jects or any other native islander once Japan surrendered to the Allied forces and
was ousted from the islands. Being virtually banished, Japanese people and their
overt influence were absent in Micronesia for approximately thirty years.
Starting in the late 1960s, small groups of Japanese interested in recovering
the remains of loved ones lost in the war ventured into Micronesia. For many of
the subjects, ties with former acquaintances or employers were renewed, and the
chance to use Japanese presented itself once again. Some started corresponding
(i.e., reading and writing in Japanese) with friends, while others attempted once
again to read Japanese novels or magazines. The more fortunate ones have had a
chance to visit Japan. Now with Japanese tourism and other commercial interests
in Micronesia, these elderly Japanese-speaking islanders find it very easy to
become tourist guides, hotel personnel, or taxi drivers if they wish. While the
surrounding tourist industry is definitely geared toward Japanese, everything else
in their life is, at the moment, more American than Japanese, especially since
their children and grandchildren are being educated under anAmerican-style
Testing the Regression Hypothesis 159
system. When they want to keep a secret from their non-Japanese speaking rela-
tives, they sometimes resort to using Japanese. They also use it as a lingua
franca in senior citizen centers on islands such as Saipan or Rota, where
Micronesians with different first languages gather.
In 1991 and 1992, many former koogakkoo pupils cooperated in research con-
ducted by this writer that featured interviews conducted in Japanese between them
and a native speaker of Japanese. The interviews were informal in nature,featuring
questions about things such as the family, education, impressions of life during the
years of the Japanese mandate, and opinions of changes in values and lifestyle
under the present American system. The subjects were also asked to read copies of
school readers used in the koogakkoo system, repeat sentences constructed
expressly for the purpose of eliciting data on pronunciation and accent retention,
and tell a story based on pictorial cues. All of this was audiotaped and transcribed.
Despite the initial disclaimers by many of the subjects that they could not com-
municate in Japanese, most were able to understand both instructions and questions
in Japanese and to convey their thoughts to the interviewers. In addition, most
could still read the koogakkoo readers presented to them (even if the textbook was
different from the one they had used at school) at varyinglevels of fluency.
The data reported on in this study are from a 1996 follow-up study of the ear-
lier project in which 25 elderly Micronesians presently living on Pohnpei and
Saipan participated.
Data collection and instrument
As a replication of Hansen's work reported in Chapter 6 (this volume), this study
employed the same negative elicitation task. During data collection a native
speaker of Japanese asked the subject questions, related to 16 pictures in which
situations had been constructed to elicit 16 different types of negative responses
for verbs, nouns, nominal adjectives, and adjectives. Because many of the sub-
jects did not understand English, they were given instructionsin their native lan-
guage to take the role of one of the people depicted in the pictures and to respond
in Japanese the best they could. The responses were audiotaped and written down
on an answer sheet. These were later coded on the basis of accuracy of form and
appropriate tense for the four predicate types: verb, noun, nominal adjective, and
adjective. A point was given for any form that can be used on a particular predi-
cate category in Japanesefor example, tabenakatta and tabemasen would be
given a point in the verb category. Regardless of the appropriateness of other
aspects of the utterance, a point was given for correct tense marker in the same
mannerboth tabenakatta and tabemashita nai would be given a point.
Results and Discussion
Table 7.2 shows the mean scores for form and tense for the four predicate types.
One-way ANOVAs and post hoc Scheffes were run to see if the differences
160 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
Table 7.2. Mean Scores for Form and Tense on Negation Picture Task
Verb
Form*
Tense**
X
3.92
3.12
SD
.28
.73
Noun
X
3.84
2.04
SD
.55
.35
Nom. Adj.
X
3.56
2.20
SD
.51
.64
Adjective
X
3.32
2.28
SD
.75
.79
Notes: n =25
*p < 0.05 between adjective and verb, and adjective and noun
** p < 0.05 between verb and noun, verb and nominal adjective, and verb and adjective.
between these means are significant. In the attrition order hypothesized by
Hansen (this volume) and substantiated by her study (A-Neg -> NA-Neg -> N-
Neg -> V-Neg), verbal negation is the most resilient of the four predicate types.
The data summarized in Table 7.2 provides further evidence for this inasmuch as
the mean score for verb is the highest among the predicate types,significantly
higher than the mean for adjectives, nominal adjectives, and nouns. In addition,
further evidence for the hypothesized order is seen in the higher scores on nomi-
nal negation than on adjectival in the form category.
It is interesting to note in these data that there is no difference between adjec-
tive and nominal adjective accuracy, despite the fact that JSL teachers of adults
often find that usage of nominal adjectives remains problematic for some, other-
wise seemingly advanced, L2 students. Such speakers sometimes confuse adjec-
tive and nominal adjective forms in other contexts (e.g., improperly using the
adjective form for suki and saying suki kara rather than suki dakara), indicating
that these learners may be categorizing nominal adjectives and adjectives on the
basis of semantics (Sumiko Takahashi, personal communication). In this study,
the only error found in nominal adjective forms was the use of suki-nai rather
than suki-ja nai: this was elicited from a subject whose Japanese language skills
had been judged good enough to work as an assistant teacher in the koogakoo
system. Kanagy (1994) collapsed the nominal adjective category with nouns in
her study, probably because the forms are identical, yet the results here reveal
that a closer examination of how the relation between nominal adjective and
adjective is realized in the minds of the subjects is an area that needs further
investigation. In the elicitation task, rather common, frequently used lexicon
were tested, so it may be that our subjects remembered them in chunks, as for-
mulaic expressions. Retesting with less commonly used lexicon may allow us to
scrutinize more closely the subjects' knowledge and performance of nominal
adjectives and adjectives.
Errors in the adjective category were of the following two types: (1) correct
usage of -ku- but insertion of -ja between -ku and nai, resulting in a form such as
atsuku-ja nai, or (2) non use of -ku and use of -ja nai, giving rise to wakai ja
nai. In both patterns, we see that the subjects seem to be relying on -ja nai, the
form used with nouns, as a negation marker. Let us assume, for the moment, that
in the attrition sequence, adjectives are more likely to be lost than nouns. It
would come as no surprise then that subjects whose hold on the language was
weakening would retain forms related to nouns more than those connected with
Testing the Regression Hypothesis 161
adjectives and may even resort to the strategy of using those negation markers in
all situations. In other words, we may be witnessing a case of overgeneralization,
the last stage suggested by Hansen (see Table 6.5 in Chapter 6, this volume).
Errors in the noun category were few, but two distinct trends were found: (1)
the particular lexicon ao ("blue") was changed from its noun form to an adjec-
tive, resulting in aokunai or one of the incorrect forms mentioned above, and (2)
nonuse of -ja nai after the noun, and using the pragmatic negation marker chi-
gau (e.g., ringo de chigau). The first type of error may be a strategy to compen-
sate for a form that does not come out smoothly in production, inasmuch as this
phenomenon was found only with the word ao. The second, the use of chigau
rather than noun +ja nai, was found in the data of only two subjects. Interest-
ingly enough, correct usage of verb, nominal adjective, and adjective negation
was found in their data. In one of the two subjects, incorrect form usage was
found in one case of adjectival use and the rest with nouns: She apparently
negates all nouns with the pragmatic chigau .
Accuracy in the use of tense also differs according to predicate, as Table 7.2
data illustrate: There is a significant difference between accuracy between the
verb and noun, nominal adjective, and adjective. Once again, the data seem to
point to the fact that negation of the verb is less likely to deteriorate than nega-
tion of other predicates. Errors in tense were found to be of one kind: Subjects
did not use a past tense marker, so all responses were in the nonpast form,
whether for contexts dealing with nouns, nominal adjectives, adjectives, or
verbs. The only correct usage of tense was found in the verb category, suggest-
ing that verbs are more robust in terms of retention. (In the interview data col-
lected earlier, there is evidence of correct usage of past tense negation, but here
again, tokens were found mainly in the verb category.)
Let us now turn to the question of a critical threshold: Does length of formal
language study affect retention? In the previous chapter, we saw that the lan-
guage retention of Hansen's female missionary subjects, who had two years of
language exposure, was significantly different from that of fellow missionaries
who had had used the Japanese language for an additional year. Does the extra
year really make a difference in retention? The data from the Micronesian sub-
jects may throw more light on the question. Table 7.3 shows a comparison by
exposure group of the mean scores for form and tense on the negation picture
task.
As the results in Table 7.3 show, there is little difference between the two
groups: Those who had attended koogakkoo longer did not display a higher
command of negation usage than those whose Japanese education ended before
graduation from hoshuuka. The only significant difference was found in the
form of nominal adjectives, an area that we have mentioned before as being
problematic for some Japanese as a second language (JSL) learners. The data for
this study indicate that most subjects, those who graduated from hoshuuka and
those who did not, supplied correct forms for nominal adjectives. Undoubtedly,
as it is suggested in Hansen (see Chapter 6, this volume) the identicalja nai
form which is appended to both the noun and nominal adjective contributes to
its resilience because of greater saliency and frequency in input. However, the
162 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
Table 7.3. Mean Scores for Form and Tense on
Negation Picture Task
Jpzedu: 5 years' Jpz edu: 5 years2
V form
V tense
N norm
N tense
NA form3
NA tense
A form
A tense
X
4
3.37
3.75
2
3.87
2
3.12
2.25
SD
0
.74
.71
0
.35
.53
1.13
.89
X
3.88
3
3.88
2.06
3.41
2.29
3.59
2.35
SD
.33
.71
.48
.43
.51
.69
.51
.70
Notes: V = verb; N = noun; NA = nominal adjective; A = adjective
'n = 8
n= 17
J
p < 0.05
errors in nominal adjectives were found in the data of two of the "higher-level"
subjects, the former assistant teacher mentioned earlier and another subject who
was one of the few who corresponded with Japanese acquaintanceson a regular
basis. In these cases, it proved to be rather difficult to elicit the particular form in
question: Sometimes a nominal adjective +ja nai form was given, but at other
times an antonym would be supplied by the subjects after a long pause, suggest-
ing that not all nominal adjectives were "equal" in terms of production. Except
for the nominal adjective results, the absence of significant differencesbetween
the groups suggests that three years may have been enough time for all of the
Micronesians to attain a proficiency level that conferred "immunity" from com-
plete language loss.
In discussions on language attrition, assumptions are made that "regression is
a process with a stepwise and fixed ordering" (Jordens et al. 1986:159), thus lin-
guistic structures that develop in a gradual, measurable manner are investigated.
Clearly, experimental studies with pretest and posttest data (i.e., a baseline mea-
surement) that show what an individual "had" linguistically at one time and
what that person has (or has not) at a later date are certainly necessary for the
field of attrition research to progress. A major weakness of this study is that the
proficiency level of the subjects' Japanese some fifty years ago cannot be clearly
defined. That is, we have no concrete evidence that after three years of intensive
language study in Japanese, our subjects had the ability to use negation of predi-
cates properly. However, as stated earlier in the introduction to this volume, lan-
guage attrition and acquisition can be viewed as a dynamic process, one which
is constantly in a state of flux, adapting to the interplay of the individual and
sociopsychological and neurological factors. Whether or not our subjects had
the full competence to use negation of predicates, it may be that their ability
upon time of graduation from honka waxed and waned during the following
years, including the period of nonuse. With that assumption, I will argue that
while the lack of an optimal research design prevents us from making strong
Testing the Regression Hypothesis 163
claims, the data from our Micronesian attriters can be useful in supporting or
contradicting other studies dealing with the acquisition and attrition of Japanese
negation. Furthermore, the data from this particular population also indicate that
pragmatic, formulaic means of expression should also be examined in people
who are losing negation, inasmuch as this may also illuminate the process of
language simplification taking place.
As mentioned before, the subjects participated in an earlier project in which
they spoke freely in Japanese. In this interview data there are 938 instances of
propositional negation, of which 692 (i.e., 74%) can be classified as falling into
one of the predicate categories. However, 246 (26%) of the occurrence are
instances of propositional negation expressed differently. A closer examination
of the 692 tokens of propositional negation shows that there is a tremendous dif-
ference in the number of occurrences of negation markers in the verb category
(608) compared with the frequencies in the noun (57), nominal adjective (3),
and adjective (24) categories. We find that the preponderance of verb and noun
forms over nominal adjectives and adjectives are in line with the findings of
accuracy usage illustrated in Tables 7.2 and 7.3.
Frequency counts from the interview data, displayed on Table 7.4 illustrate that
the subjects are relying heavily on pragmatic strategies to express negation. As
commonly accepted, expressions of negation need not be limited to grammatical
inflections (Clancy 1985:381, 393-399). In situations in which Japanese is
acquired in a natural, first-language setting, the first negatives to appear are single
words such as iya ("I don't want," used to reject objects or refuse suggestions),
dame ("no good" single-word prohibition equivalent to don't in English), and nai
("does not exist" expresses absence or nonexistence) or chigau ("not so" expresses
denials). Later, when a Japanese child is around two years of age, the nonpast neg-
ative suffix nai appears at the stage of two-word utterances. Nai is a very frequent
and salient negation marker in Japanese and often overgeneralized by small chil-
dren as a single-word negative for functions other than nonexistence. By age two,
Japanese children use a variety of verbal inflections: -te (imperative), -ta (past
tense), -teru (present progressive or resultative), -ru (nonpast tense; present states,
habitual or future actions), -chatta (completed past), -nai (negative, nonpast
tense), and -tai (desiderative, nonpast tense). One year later, they have usually
acquired the formal mas (-masu nonpast and -mashita past) forms.
Table 7.4. Number of Tokens in Interview
Data: Separate Word Negation
Form Tokens
V-na 8
iya 135
dame 22
ellipsis (e.g., ammari) 27
chigau 28
miscellaneous (e.g., He, V-nu). 26
164 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
The interview data demonstrate that the subjects are still able to use, and in
fact may rely quite heavily on, the use of propositional negation expressions that
are typically found in the language of Japanese children, as the following exam-
ple illustrates (I = interviewer; M = male subject who finished hoshuuka).
(1) M: ... nihongo ii desu yo
. . . Japanese (language) is good!
I: e?
What?
M: nihongo ii desu yo
Japanese (language) is good (emphatic)!
I: nihongo, ii?
Japanese (language) is good?
M: ee
yes
I: nihon jidai ii?
(You mean,) the period of Japanese rule was good?
M: hai.. . nihonjidai. .. amerika jidai. .. dame
yes . . . the Japanese period (was good) . . . (but) the American
period isn't
The use of pragmatic expressions such as dame, iya and other propositional nega-
tion expressions is fully acquired by Japanese children before three years of age.
These highly frequent, salient markers are not found in the input provided by
school readers, yet they account for 26% of the instances of propositional nega-
tion in the interview data. As Table 7.5 illustrates, presentation of linguistic
forms of propositional negation in the textbooks seemed to heavily favor verbal
negation models, with just a couple of examples of negation of nominals and
adjectives and nothingdealing with nominal adjective negation.We see thatinput
of verb negation overwhelmed that of other predicates: the fact that verb negation
input was high and the negation form -nai is highly salient may be a factor in the
Table 7.5. Number of Negation Tokens in Selected Japanese
Language Readers
V
N
NA
A
iya
dame
chigau
ellipsis
-mai
sezu
nu
Book 1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Book 2
7
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Book 3
18
5
0
1
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
Book 4
29
3
0
4
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
Book 5
46
1
0
2
2
0
2
1
1
0
1
Testing the Regression Hypothesis 165
retention and use of verbal negations vis-a-vis other predicate negations. It
should also be noted that there were examples of formal or literary styles (e.g.,
arumaishi, sezu, and naranu) in the Japanese readers as well as a couple of
examples of other propositional negation, such as dame or iya.
Assuming that most of class time was spent on traditional oral reading teach-
ing methods, we see that the Japanese language textbooks themselves cannot be
assumed to be the sole source of input of propositional negation. Interactions
with native speakers of Japanesethat is, with teachers, employers, adult offi-
cials (e.g., police officers), and even playmatesmay account for the acquisi-
tion of pragmatic negation markers. Learned in the early stages of L1 negation,
these markers are perceptually salient, frequent, and simple, which may account
for their retention in the language of the subjects. Using the formulaic expres-
sions and simplifying language is a strategy for coping with an impoverished
language source, so we may consider the reliance on pragmatic expressions as
indications that the subjects are indeed the attriters they claim to be.
Previous research suggests that L2 speakers retain frequently used and prag-
matically laden expressions despite lack of input or use (Olshtain 1989). Thus, it
appears that affect influences what one perceives and pays attention to, and
therefore, is an important factor in determining what one learns and retains.
In interactions with native Japanese speakers, there were many opportunities
for affective input to become intake, for the Micronesian children had to pay
close attention to the speaker and the language in order to respond in an appro-
priate manner. Depending on the particular Japanese speaker, a Micronesian
child could be treated warmly, strictly, abusively, or totally ignored.8
Our sub-
jects certainly had many opportunities to interact with native speakers of
Japanese, whether language teachers, school principals, or child-labor employ-
ers, in situations fraught with emotional overtones, many times being told not to
do something. The fact that even relatively infrequent forms are still remem-
bered by Micronesian subjects suggests that, indeed, affect plays an important
factor in acquisition and retention, as the following example illustrates (I =
interviewer, F = female subject who finished honka).
(2) I: sensei wa . . .
as for the teacher . . .
F: (laughs)
I: ibatte-ru
(he was) arrogant
F: ee,ponape no kotoba tsukatta . . . kinoo ponape no kotoba tsukatta,
tsukattaro! tsukattatte, watashi hitori demo, moshi ponape no
kotoba oo . . .uta oo utatte . . . hitori de, nanika . . . banana wo
tabete, hitori mo minai, watashi dake de ne, watashi wa mo . . .
(unintelligible) temasu yo. . . .hitori dake de ne, shitte-masu.. . .nani
yatta no? uchi de mango oo . . . kotchi koi!
dame! moo ichido yaruna!
yes, (to give an example of what he said if you) used the Ponapean
language .. . "Yesterday you spoke in Ponapean, you used Ponapean,
166 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
didn't you?" . .. if you used Ponapean . . . even if I were alone, if I
used Ponapean ... if I sang a (Ponapean) song when I was by
myself. . . something . . . eating a banana (where) nobody can see
me . . .just me alone ... I would be ... (unintelligible)... even by
myself (the teacher) would know about it . . ."What did you do?
(ate) a mango at home . . . Get yourself over here! You shouldn't
have done that! Don't ever do that again!"
We see in this example that our subject can give an emotional rendition of the
scoldings she used to receive from her omnipresent. Japanese teacher using not
only the word damea highly frequent, salient, and simple formbut also the
less frequently used V-na form (i.e., in yaruna). It appears then that affect and its
influence on acquisition and retention should be considered in future studies on
language attrition.
Conclusion
The findings of the present study are consistent with those reported by research
on the progression (Kanagy 1994; Hansen, in preparation) and regression (see
Chapter 6, this volume) of Japanese negation. That is, our Micronesian JSL
speakers demonstrate a pattern of predicate negation of A-Neg -> NA-Neg -> N-
Neg -> V-Neg, in which verbal negation is shown to be significantly more robust
than the other types. The subjects also tend to rely heavily on pragmatic markers
of negation such as dame or iya. These findings indicate that the Micronesians'
use of Japanese is streamlined, retaining use of highly frequent, salient forms
found to be frequent in input and in potentially emotional situations.
No difference in retention was found between the subjects who had graduated
from the five-year hoshuuka course and those who did not. Although the sub-
jects were divided into two groups, less than five years versus five years, some
were three, four, or more than five years; the expansion of the Pacific War
brought an end to their schooling, so the education of many of the younger sub-
jects ended abruptly. A better comparison would be to collect data from subjects
who had had only two years of Japanese schooling and compare them with those
who had completed only the honka course.
A few more caveats are in order. First, as noted earlier, the initialproficiency
of our subjects could not be ascertained. We cannot say with certainty what the
precise L2 proficiency level was for the subjects at the end of World War II. Sec-
ond, the subjects who are featured in this report may be the better, or more confi-
dent, L2 speakers. That is, they may not necessarily be representive of all elderly
Micronesians who can speak Japanese. The subjects were quite willing to speak
in Japanese and seemed eager to use the language once again, so this may be a
self-selected group of extraordinary people. Their language samples, however,
do replicate the findings of the previous studies. Their negated utterancesshow
the patterns of simplification that are pervasive in situationsof language contact
and loss, thus providinganother small window on regressionphenomena.
Appendix
Table 7.1. Micronesian Subjects
Gender
M
M
M
M
M
M
F
M
M
M
F
M
M
M
M
F
F
M
F
F
F
F
F
M
F
Date of Birth
8/12/16
?/?/17
6/4/18
8/29/20
4/24/22
9/7/22
8/8/23
9/16/23
4/29/24
10/27/26
11/13/26
8/29/27
4/26/28
10/27/28
6/7/29
8/6/29
11/23/29
12/23/29
2/10/30
2/15/30
4/16/30
10/2/30
10/23/30
11/11/30
5/5/32
Years of
Island Japanese Education
Saipan
Ponape
Ponape
Ponape
Saipan
Ponape
Saipan
Saipan
Ponape
Palau
Ponape
Ponape
Ponape
Ponape
Ponape
Ponape
Ponape
Ponape
Saipan
Ponape
Ponape
Saipan
Ponape
Ponape
Ponape
3
5
5
6
5
3
5
7
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
3
5
5
3
4
4
4
5
5
3
167
168 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
Notes
1. Although the area of Micronesia is technically in the North Pacific, it is referred to as
"South Pacific" in this paper
2. Political changes often mean new names for places. Ponape is now Pohnpei, Truk is
Chuuk, and Palau is the Republic of Belau. In referring to these islands in their histor-
ical context, the former names will be used.
3. The Japanese primary school system for nationals was a six-year lower primary
school and two-year higher primary course.
4. In theory, the top students were selected, but in reality this was not always the case.
One informant in Pohnpei relates that as the war in the Pacific progressed, parents
were reluctant to send their bright sons away to Palau, for fear of losing them forever.
5. In 1940, blacksmith, automotive mechanics, and electronics were added to the cur-
riculum.
6. Kanagy had three predicate groups in her study: verbal, nominal, and adjectival. The
sequence of acquisition, however, is congruent with Hansen's (1993) findings.
7. Technically the song Kimigayo was not the national anthem but it was treated as such.
8. Most subjects acknowledge that there were instances of unduly harsh treatment at the
hands of a Japanese national, but in general the subjects in this study thoughttheir
Japanese education was good. They tended to be highly critical of the "lenient" Amer-
ican style of education.
8
Learning and Losing Japanese as a Second Language:
A Multiple Case Study of American University Students
Sumiko Nagasawa
Previous chapters have presented the phenomena of language attrition and reten-
tion in various environments where foreign or second languages are gradually
lost due to disuse. This chapter examines a phenomenon that occurred in a
slightly different context: the attrition and retention of second language (L2)
Japanese in a first language (L1) environment where language instruction con-
tinued after returning from Japan. It had been observed in a U.S. graduate insti-
tute that advanced speakers of Japanese who had intensive language training and
exposure to the language while in Japan during the summer experienced some
attrition during the following academic year even though a certain level of lan-
guage instruction continued. Similar phenomena are observable elsewhere
among those who come back to the L1 environment from L2 study abroad pro-
grams. The attrition of oral skills among the students seemed to be caused
mainly by the change of the language environment from an L2 (Japan) to L1
(U.S. English), where the exposure to the language and the opportunity to use it
were severely limited. However, the environmental factor did not seem to affect
the students equally, as some were able to maintain their L2 oral skills to a
greater extent than others. Therefore the present study examined other variables
that might have an effect on language attrition and retention in this population:
initial proficiency level, attitudes and motivation, language use outside the class-
room, and language learning background. It was hoped that a qualitativestudy
of seven students at the above mentioned institute would shed some light on the
complex nature of language attrition phenomena.
Several L2 attrition studies report a reverse correlation between the initial
language proficiency level and attrition. As early as 1932, in a study of the reten-
tion of Latin syntax among first- and second-year college students, Kennedy
observed that "initial achievement is the significant factor in retention" on an
individual level (1932:146). Godsall-Myers (1981) also reports inverse relations
169
170 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
between the attrition rate (in morphology, vocabulary, writing, listening, and
reading comprehension) and the students' cumulative average in German class.
Similarly, in his large-scale study, Bahrick concludes that the amount of content
to be lost during the first five years following training "becomes a progressively
smaller portion of total knowledge with higher levels of training" (1984a:116).
(For details on Bahrick's 1984 study, see Chapter 1, this volume).
In reaction to Bahrick's study, Neisser (1984) suggests that there may be a
critical threshold in the stages of learning beyond which isolated responses
become part of mental representations of complex information structures which
then become immune to decay. The notion of a critical threshold is supported by
some language attrition studies. De Bot & Clyne (1989) found that the elderly
Dutch immigrants in Australia revealed little loss in L1 Dutch and L2 English
over 16 years. They conclude that, rather than age or social factors, the level of
proficiency attained in the second language is the most important factor. Those
who had a very low level of proficiency in L2 English showed reversion to the
first language, but those who reached this (self-evaluated) threshold level did
not. They state that the policy implication of their study is that "the second lan-
guage must be taught until the critical threshold is reached" (175). In alongitudi-
nal study of French attrition of Dutch students, Weltens & Van Els (1986) and
Weltens (1989) report that the subjects' global skills in reading and listening
showed improvement rather than attrition. They attribute these results to the rela-
tively high proficiency level of the students who had four to six years of training.
The data from Clark & Jorden's (1984) study of attrition in former students
of L2 Japanese at an American university show that the two groups of students,
attriting and nonattriting, were not much different in their initial achievement or
formal language training.Rather, students' self-report from an extensive ques-
tionnaire indicated that their decrease in speaking and listening proficiency was
directly related to their degree of current use of Japanese. Although the relation-
ship of the initial proficiency to attrition and retention is not the focus of their
study, Clark & Jorden recommend that for a larger-scale study, inclusion of that
factor would enable them to determine "whether there is a critical point in over-
all language proficiency below which attrition is rapid and extensive, but at and
above which, a large proportion of the initially acquired material is retained"
(58). The researchers add that, according to Foreign Service Institute (FSI) lan-
guage instructors' informal observation, Level 3 on the FSI scale appears to be a
watershed point. If that were the case, and if students intend to acquire Japanese
for lifelong use, they propose that the pedagogical implication would be to bring
the learners' level to this level by the end of initial language training.
These studies all point to the significant role of the initial achievement and
threshold level in preventing language attrition, but there is no research on deter-
mining a specific level of achievement that might be resistant to attrition. The
study reported here investigated whether a specific proficiency level would be
sufficiently high for preventing attrition.
In Canadian bilingualism research, social factors, particularly attitudinal and
motivational variables, have been integral parts of language acquisition and
retention research. In their landmark study, Gardner & Lambert (1959) analyzed
A Multiple Case Study of American University Students 171
different measures administered to English-speaking high school studentsstudy-
ing L2 French in Montreal. They identifiedtwo factors that seemed to be variables
in measuring the students' L2 French achievement: language aptitude and social
motivation. Gardner (1982) later summarized that "those individuals who had a
favorable attitude toward French Canadians, who wanted to learn French in order
to become psychologically close to the French Canadian community, and who
worked hard to learn French, would be successful" (29). Since that initial study,
considerable research, such as that of Gardner & Lambert (1972), has been con-
ducted in other regions and languages, all indicating a varying degree of relation-
ship between L2 learning and attitudes and motivation. At the 1980 conference on
the loss of language skills at the University of Pennsylvania, Gardner underlined
the necessity of including social factors as predictor variables in attrition research.
In his proposal, he referred to Edwards's (1976, 1977) two studies on L2 retention
among Canadian government workers in Ottawa. In the study, neither French-
dominant nor English-dominant employees lost language proficiency during the
six-month period after their training, but a difference emerged after a twelve-
month interval. French-dominant workers showed no change, while English-dom-
inant workers gained slightly in reading but lost significantly in speaking. In a
questionnaire, his subjects answered that a supportive environment in the work-
place for use of the second language and an interest and confidence to use it on
employees' part were key factors related to language retention, in addition to suc-
cessful initial learning. English-dominants used French only in basic routine tasks
at work, while French-dominants used English in a large number of situations. In
Edwards's studies, factors of attitudes and motivation seemed less important than
achievement and environment, but these studies suggested that such factors were
nonetheless related to L2 retention. Gardner (1982) argues that the attitudinal and
motivational factors are related to retention in that they influence the degree to
which individual learners seek out opportunities to use a second language. Lan-
guage loss will occur if individualsdo not try to find occasions to use the lan-
guage they have acquired. Further studies have been conducted to examine the
effects of language use as well as attitudes and motivation on L2 attrition. The
results from the study of adult L2 French learners in Quebec showed a correlation
of less favorable attitudes and lower use to the attrition of speaking and under-
standing (Gardner, Lalonde, & MacPherson 1985). Another study of high school
students of French over summer vacation reported a causal relationship among
attitudes, motivation, and language use: Language attitudes seemed to cause moti-
vation; motivation in turn was seen to be a factor for L2 achievement and use of
the language during the summer; and the use of French maintained the level of
proficiency over the break (Gardner, Lalonde, Moorcroft, & Evers 1987).
Motivation has been discussed as having two aspects in language learning:
integrative motivation and instrumental motivation (Gardner et al. 1987:9). In a
recent study, Gardner & Maclntyre (1991) found that both integratively moti-
vated students and instrumentally motivated students learned French vocabulary
pairs better than those who were less motivated to study. Instrumentally moti-
vated students studied longer than those who were noninstrumentally motivated,
as long as a specific gain was expected.
172 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
Although factors of attitudes and motivation seemed less important than
achievement and environment, these studies nevertheless suggested that they
were related to L2 attrition and retention. Subjects in the current study presum-
ably had high level of attitudes and motivation at the beginning of the study.
Whether possible change in their attitudes and motivation had any effects on
their attrition and retention of Japanese oral proficiency was examined.
Research Questions and Hypotheses
This study was motivated by four research questions concerning the nature of
attrition and retention of oral proficiency among advanced speakers of L2
Japanese. Questions were asked as to how various factors would affect the sub-
jects' attrition and retention in a foreign language environment at auniversity
where they continued to have some instruction in the language.
Ql. How does the speaker's initial proficiency (at the beginning of the aca-
demic year upon returning from the target culture) affect his or her attri-
tion and retention? Is there a "threshold" level that resists attrition?
Q2. What are the features, in seminaturalistic data, that are affected in cir-
cumstances of limited use and exposure?
Q3. How does the speaker's change, if any, in attitudes and motivation for
learning Japanese affect his or her language use outside the classroom
and attrition and retention of oral proficiency?
Q4. How does the speaker's language learning background contribute to attri-
tion and retention?
Question 1 was asked in order to examine the effects of initial proficiency
achievement on attrition and retention and to tentatively determine the level of
L2 Japanese oral attainment that would be resistant to attrition once the learners
were placed in an environment where exposure to the language was limited.
Question 2 was formulated in the context of utilizing seminaturalistic data, the
oral proficiency interview. Unlike previous studies, which focused on specific
linguistic features and whose methods were designed to elicit those features,
finding changes in the features of less constrained utterances was intended to
give a broader attrition profile of each subject. Question 3 was motivated by the
studies by Canadian researchers that showed the effects of learners' attitudes and
motivation on L2 maintenance. These two factors were expected to also play a
part in the attrition and retention of L2 Japanese. Question 4 seemed potentially
revealing because the subjects had diverse L2 Japanese learning backgrounds.
For speakers of Indo-European languages, reaching the advanced level in
Japanese usually takes much longer than achieving comparable levels in West
European languages. Thus it was considered possible that, in the long acquisi-
tion process, the subjects' language learning experiences had varied greatly and
consequently had differentially affected the building up of the "critical mass."
In light of previous research findings on attrition and retention of advanced
A Multiple Case Study of American University Students 173
speakers' proficiency, the following hypotheses were formulated for each of the
four research questions.
H1. Speakers with Superior or higher proficiency on the American Council
on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL) scale (3 or higher on
Inter-agency Language Roundtable [ILR]) will be relatively immune to
loss, but speakers with Advanced High or lower level (2 + or lower on
ILR) will be susceptible to loss in a foreign language environment.
H2. Three features, as revealed in mostly constraint-free seminaturalistic
data, will be affected: (1) nontargetlike use of particles will increase; (2)
sentence structures, in terms of error-free T-units; simple sentences, and
words, will be somewhat more simplified; and (3) fluency, in terms of
articulation rate, unfilled pauses, and repairs (self-repetition and self-
correction) will show some decline.
H3. Speakers who will have a negative change in attitude and motivation for
learning Japanese during the study period, either integrative or instru-
mental, will use Japanese less outside the classroom and will experience
a certain degree of attrition.
H4. Subjects who had more formal study of Japanese prior to the summer
immersion and a longer stay in Japan will be more resistant to attrition.
Hypothesis 1 was postulated on the basis of previous research as well as on this
researcher's experience as an instructor of Japanese in advanced courses. The
Superior level on the ACTFL scale appears to mark a maturation in all aspects of
language learning, consolidating various parts of the linguistic system of a lan-
guagegrammar, lexicon, pronunciation, fluency, discourse organization, and
sociolinguistic competence. In other words, achievement of this level is the first
step in consolidation toward nativelike performance, and it seems to be the
"threshold level" that would be resistant to attrition. The acquisition of this level
or higher almost necessarily requires immersion in the target language in which
the learner has ample opportunity to develop nativelike proficiency. Research
shows that after this massive buildup, the likelihood of attrition is reduced. It
was therefore hypothesized that, in this study, four subjects who were rated as
superior had accumulated sufficient "critical mass" that would resist attrition,
while three other subjects whose ratings were Advanced-High or Advanced
were vulnerable to attrition to some extent. Hypothesis 2 was motivated by the
sharp decline in subjects' exposure to the target language following their return
to the United States from Japan, where the exposure and use had been at its
peak. The features for analyses were carefully chosen not to reflect the con-
straints of the oral proficiency interview (OPI). In particular, those features were
selected which were considered to be affected minimally by content, context,
grammar, or the interviewers' interactive styles. Hypothesis 3 was motivated by
the possibility that, during the course of study, the subjects experienced changes
in their attitudes and motivation which were presumed to have been very favor-
able in the beginning of the study. If so, this could have had an effect on the use
of Japanese outside the classroom and, thus, on the maintenance of their oral
174 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
proficiency. Hypothesis 4 was motivated by the diversity of language learning
backgrounds the subjects brought into attrition context. These differences in the
length of study and exposure to Japanese prior to the beginning of this project
were thought to have potentially variable influences on language attrition and
retention.
Method
Subjects
Subjects for the study were seven graduate students (S1-S7, two female and five
male),1
whose ages ranged from 24-31 (see Table 8.1. in the Appendix). Six
were native speakers of English, and one was a native speaker of French (S2)
who had a nativelike command of English. Three (S1, S2, S3) were first-year
students, and four (S4, S5, S6, S7) were second-year students. Their formal
instruction in Japanese ranged from nine and a half months to almost five years.
The length of their stay in Japan varied from nine months to over three years. All
the subjects had spent the summer preceding the study in Japan. The three first-
year students had engaged in an eight-week cultural and language study, and the
four second-year students had worked approximately three months on an intern-
ship program in Japanese businesses.As stated earlier, this study investigated
language attrition and retention of subjects who had just returned from Japan
and who were continuinglanguage instruction in an L1 environment.Therefore,
it is necessary to describe the contents of L2 Japanese instructionduring the aca-
demic year in the United States. The class was divided by the students' oral pro-
ficiency ratings at the beginning of the fall semester. There were two ratings,
Superior and Advanced. Both the advanced and the superior students attended
80-minute Japanese courses twice a week. For the superior class, a seminaron
Japanese culture was given biweekly in one of these two weekly classes by a
Japanese specialist. The advanced class did not attend the seminar because of
their insufficient skills in reading. The core of the course was discussions of top-
ics found in newspaper articles or anthologies of Japanese culture and business.
Data Collection
In investigatingthe complex nature of attrition and retention of advanced speak-
ers of L2 Japanese and to collect revealing data pertinent to the research ques-
tions, the qualitative multiple-case studies method had two advantages. First,
each subject could be studied independently. Then, cross-case analysis allowed
the researcher to see whether the predicted results or contrary ones were
obtained.
Data for the study were collected from ACTFL oral proficiency interviews,
conducted by certified testers at the beginning (Time 1) and the end (Time 2) of
A Multiple Case Study of American University Students 175
the academic year. These were the major sources for analysis of changes in
Japanese particle use, sentence structure, and fluency over a seven-month
period. Data were also collected from a questionnaire completed by each subject
about L2 learning experiences (types, levels, and length), lengths of visits to
Japan, and types of motivation for learning Japanese, and from 20-30 minute
personal interviews. These were held with each subject during the academic year
to monitor subjects' language use outside the classroom and to detect changes in
attitude toward their Japanese class, learning Japanese, and Japan and its people.
In deciding to use the OPI test tapes as the data for investigating the subjects'
change in oral proficiency, the controversial nature of the OPI was carefully con-
sidered. Critics point out many drawbacks to the test. The construction of the
ACTFL guidelines is analytic, not mirroring real-life language ability. Also, the
test has a discrete-point approach, contrary to proponents' claim that it is a
"global" test, in its specifications of functions, content areas, and grammatical
forms. The scale definitions are based on the abstract native-speaker perfor-
mance. And ratings lack comparability since they are highly dependent on con-
tent and context factors (Lantolf & Frawley 1985, Bachman & Savignon 1986).
There have, however, been some responses to these criticisms. Concerning the
question of the construct validity of the ACTFL proficiency guidelines and the
OPI procedure, Dandonoli & Henning (1990) report that the difficulty continu-
ally associated with the level descriptions were mostly supported in statistical
analyses of oral interviews in both English and French. Also, cross-ratings by
trained raters and untrained native speakers (who used whatever criteria they
chose) showed a high correlationa mean correlation of .934 for English and
.929 for French. Although the OPI guidelines need further refinement and
improvement, Clark & Lett (1988) consider the use and development of the ILR
scale, the basis of ACTFL scale, to be currently the most significant measure-
ment. In this study, the OPI was used as the baseline in the hope that it would
better reflect the view of speaking performance as a total speech act and would
be less subjective than earlier research, which used assessment measures such as
the length of study, average grades, self-report, or storytelling and depended
upon the researchers' own judgment in setting the baseline. The OPI tests were
conducted by different ACTFL-certified testers at Time 1 (the start of the study
in September) and Time 2 (the end of the study in April) and were confirmed by
a second rater at each time, following the institute's policy. Most ratings were
the same between the two raters. When any discrepancies were found, raters
reevaluated the ratings, and adjustments were made to come to consensus. A
questionnaire was prepared to collect background information on each subject
about his or her language learning experiences prior to the study. They were
asked about types and levels of formal instruction, language use and contact with
the target culture during the summer immersion program, the length of visits to
and stay in Japan, and types of motivation for learning Japanese. The main pur-
pose of the six interviews was to observe any change in the individual subjects in
attitude and motivation and the use of Japanese outside the classroom. Other top-
ics included the subjects' responses on the questionnaireand performance on the
OPI tests, effective language learning styles, ideas on motivatinglearners if they
176 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
were to be teachers, perceptions of the effects of majoring in Japanese on future
job opportunities, and evaluation of Japanese study during the academic year.
Procedure for Analysis
Particle Use
The particle use by the subjects was analyzed for its grammatical and obligatory
nature in a sentence. Japanese is an SOV language, but the word order is rela-
tively free. Particles are postpositional, and some are used to show case rela-
tions. Others are used to express the speaker's attitudes or emotions toward the
content of words, phrases, clauses, and sentences. There are about 50 commonly
used particles in modern spoken Japanese, and the acquisition of nativelikepar-
ticle use is extremely difficult for L2 Japanese learners.
From the transcribed data at Time 1 and Time 2, all particles used in each
subject's utterances were classified into the following four particle categories,
and the frequency of each particle use was tallied:
a. Case markers to, toka, no, ga, o, ni, e, de, kara, yori
b. Conjunctions ga, kedo, keredomo, shi, tari, node, kara, noni, to, nagara
c. Adverbials ka, wa, mo, koso, sae, demo/datte, shika, kiri, dake, bakari,
hodo, made, kurai/gurai, nado/nanka
d. Sentence final ka, ne/nee, yo, na/naa
The underlyingframework used for the analysis was the view of errors as inter-
language in the learning process toward the target norm (Corder 1981). Thecon-
cern of the analysis was whether the speaker's erroneous use of particles (inter-
language) increased or decreased between Time 1 and Time 2. Particle use was
categorized into two major types: targetlike (TL) use and nontargetlike (NTL)
use. Nontargetlike particle use included erroneous use,deletion,2
and overuse.
For the purpose of analysis, the following points were considered. First, formu-
laic expressions or learned chunks were excluded from the analysis. Although
they were made up of some words and particles, they were learned together and
used as if they were single items as fillers or connectors, thus not considered to
be manifestations of the speaker's interlanguage grammatical competence. Sec-
ond, particles used in repetition and self-correction were excluded.
Sentence Structure
T-units were first used to measure the syntactic maturity of L1 acquisition (Hunt
1965). As the learner matured, longer T-units were used, particularly when
embedding was used. Attempts have been made in L2 acquisition research to
establish a similar index of L2 development. Scott & Tucker (1974) introduced
the notion of the "error-free" T-unit. This was the result of their study of L2
English students' writing which showed that although the lower-level students
A Multiple Case Study of American University Students 177
produced long T-units, they were filled with errors. Later Larsen-Freeman
(1983) investigated the effectiveness of T-unit measures with oral data. In her
study, the percentage of error-free T-units was found to effectively discriminate
the five levels of oral proficiency. Harrington (1986) applied the T-unit measure-
ment to oral proficiency of L2 Japanese. He found that the use of T-unit had lim-
itations in its discriminative power when applied to a group of learners, but
when used for measuring individual speaker's ability to form longer, complex,
error-free sentences, it could be an objective and accurate measure. Expanding
the definition in related literature (Pica & Doughty 1985, Tamaru et al. 1993),
the units of analysis were determined as follows:
T-unit (T): A main clause and related subordinate clauses and nonclausal
structures embedded in it.
Nontargetlike T-unit (NTLT): A T-unit that contains at least one morphologi-
cal or syntactical error.
Error-free T-unit (EFT): AT unit that contains no morphological or syntacti-
cal error.
Simple sentence (S): An embedded nuclear sentence that has an ending with a
Japanese verb or an adjective or a copula.
Nontargetlike simple sentence (NTLS): A simple sentence that contains at
least one morphological or syntactical error.
Error-free simple sentence (EFS): A simple sentence that contains no mor-
phological or syntactical error.
Word (W): A smallest unit of the Japanese language includingparticles and
an auxiliaries.
Nontargetlike word (NTLW): A word that contains at least one morphological
error. The use of an English word with English pronunciationis counted as
nontargetlike as well.
Error-free word (EFW): A Japanese word that contains no morphological
error.
Fragments: Nonclausal items such as single-word or phrasal utterances used
as initiations or responses, as well as self-repetitions and false starts.
Interjections and fillers: Single lexical responses, hai/ee/un (yes) and iie/iya
(no); and their nonlexical counterparts and pause fillers (i.e., ma/maa,
ano/anoo, eeto, saa), which were not incorporated into T-units, phrases, or
fragments.
In the data analysis, all subjects' utterances were broken into T-units (T), simple
sentences (S), and words (W). Then these were further analyzed into non-target-
like units (NTLT, NTLS, NTLW) and error-free units (EFT, EFS, EFW). Frag-
ments, interjections, and fillers were not included in the calculations.
Fluency
Temporal variables in speech production have been traditionally studied as the
psycholinguistic processes of speech planning (Dechert & Raupach 1980).
178 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
Recently, attempts have been made to approach these temporal variables as mea-
surements of fluency in L2 (Lennon 1989, 1990; Riggenbach 1991). In Lennon's
study, four German learners of English improved fluency during theirsix-month
stay in Britain. Lennon concluded that reduction of pause time, improvement of
speech rate, and reduction of filled pauses and repetitions were related to the
speakers' improvement of fluency. Riggenbach (1991) investigated features that
distinguished fluent L2 speakers from nonfluent speakers. Features such as
unfilled pauses, speech rate, and repair to a lesser degree emerged as determin-
ing factors of fluency.
In the present study, the change in fluency in terms of the rate of articula-
tion, unfilled pauses, and repairs was studied. In selecting segments, the fol-
lowing criteria were followed. First, segments of two minutes of an undis-
turbed (by the interviewer) utterance were taken from Time 1 and Time 2.
Secondly, at both times, utterances on similar topics were chosen where possi-
ble. If this could not be done, topics familiar to the speaker were chosen in
order to avoid, as much as possible, the impact these selections might have on
articulation rate and pause frequencies. Recordings were analyzed with a
Siemens Oscillomink L, which displayed distribution of speech and pause
graphically. Cut-off points of 0.13 seconds for articulation rate (O'Connell
1988:115) and 0.2 seconds for pause were taken and measured from the oscil-
lograms. Articulation rate was measured for unpruned (all syllables were
divided by the total on-time in seconds) and pruned (syllables, excludingrepe-
titions, self-corrections, and pause-fillers, were divided by the total time on
these syllables) so that the difference would show the use of thesedysfluency
features. Pauses were measured as unfilled pauses (silence of 0.2 seconds or
greater) and filled pauses (containing nonlexical items such as ano, maa, eeto).
Although pauses are a necessary ingredient in fluent (and native) speaker dis-
course, it was hoped that the change in each subject's pause time would shed
some light on the attrition phenomena.
The other fluency features investigated were the repair phenomena in sub-
jects' utterances. These included repetitions, self-corrections, and false starts.
The following definitions by Pica & Doughty (1985) were used in the study.
Repetition: Exact adjacent repeats of syllables, words, phrases and simple
sentences.
Self-correction: Reformulations in which new grammatical and lexical items
are added or subtracted to correct perceived errors.
False start: Reformulations in which the original utterance is rejected.
Results and Discussion
Since the scope of this research was small and specific in terms of the number
of samples and the nature of data, a qualitative and descriptive approach was
taken. The results therefore were tentative, limited to these sample subjects and
data.
A Multiple Case Study of American University Students 179
Initial Achievement
As stated in the first research question and hypothesis, the focus of this study
was the relationship of the subjects' initial oral proficiency achievement to attri-
tion and retention of the three features investigated. Table 8.2 (see Appendix)
presents the initial ACTFL rating of each subject.All four second-year students
(S4, S5, S6, S7) rated as Superior (3), but the ratings of the first-year students
were Advanced (2) for S1 and Advanced High (2+) for S2 and S3. These initial
ratings will be noted under individualsubjects in all of the tables that present the
results of data analyses, in order to facilitate understanding of the discussion of
the predictive power of H1.
Features of Attrition
Particle Use
As background to the discussion of the changes in the subjects' use of particles,
the followingsummary of the average frequencies of particle use was prepared.
Case-marking particles made up 65% of the total particles used at Time 1 and
64% at Time 2. Adverbial particles were next in frequency, making up 24% of
the total usage at Time 1 and 26% at Time 2. Conjunctiveparticles were the next
in terms of frequency of usage, making up 9% of the total usage at Time 1 and
8% at Time 2. The Sentence Final particles were the least used. They made up
2% of the total usage at both Time 1 and Time 2. The high frequency of case-
marking particles came as no surprise in as much as they are obligatory in mark-
ing different case relationships in Japanese grammar (e.g., subjects, topics,
objects, time, locations, etc.).
In analyzing the data, the total number of TL and NTL use of each particle
was tallied for individual subjects, and then the percentage against the total par-
ticle use was calculated for Time 1 and Time 2, and finally the percentage
change from Time 1 to Time 2 was computed. Particles that were used fewer
than five times in the entire data at each test time were omitted from the analy-
sis, leaving 10 particles for the discussion (6 case-marking, 1 conjunctive, 3
adverbial). Table 8.3 (see Appendix) is the summary of particle use of the seven
subjects.
Results, particularly changes in NTL use of case-marking particles, were
mixed. The particle ga showed the largest percentages of change for most sub-
jects. S1 had an increase of 187%, S5 had an increase of 28%, and S6 had an
increase of 46%. S3 showed a decrease of 72%, S4 showed a decrease of 43%,
and S7 showed a decrease of 58%. Mixed results were also seen for o, ni, and
de. About half of the subjects' NTL use increased, and the other half decreased.
An overall decrease at Time 2 in no and to, which were low in NTL use percent-
age at each time, was observed. The decrease of NTL use was generally seen in
conjunctive and adverbial particles.However, some subjects showed NTL use
only at Time 2 in several particles. Student 6 showed NTL use in ka and wa, and
180 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
S2, S3, and S4 showed NTL use in mo. The results did not show any clear pat-
terns as to which particles would be uniformly affected during the study
period. It was conceivable that, in advanced stages of the interlanguage, indi-
vidual differences might become more prominent and might affect particle use
variably.
Although the results showed little indication of attrition in any particular par-
ticles across subjects, a certain tendency emerged within individual speakers.
S1 showed a large increase in the percentage change in NTL use in all particles
(+18% to +187%), while showing some decline in TL use (-1% to -27%). The
decline might give support to H1, in that her level of Advanced (2) was not high
enough to resist attrition even while she continued the language instruction. The
range of change in S2's TL use was not wide (+7% to -11%), but NTL use
showed five ranges (-7% to +147%, not counting -100%, which simply indi-
cates no NTL use at Time 2). There appeared to be some indication of attrition
that might be linked to the initial level, Advanced High (2+), but the TL use
increase in ga, to, wa make that claim somewhat weak. In the case of S3,
decrease of NTL use was revealed in most particles (-7% to 80%), showing an
improvement during the academic year. Moreover, NTL use of four particles,
de, to, kara, wa at Time 1 became TL at Time 2. The TL use of most particles
was increased to some extent (+2% to +18%). Hypothesis 1 did not predict her
case which revealed mostly gain instead of decline, even though her initial
achievement was Advanced High (2+). In general, a decrease in NTL use was
observed in S4 (-43% to -84% in four particles), but TL increase remained
rather low (+2% to +21%). He exhibited an increase in NTL use in fewer parti-
cles, but at rather high rates (+33% to +68%). Thus, it could be said that the
relationship between his particle use and his initial rating of Superior (3) was
not clear. The profile of S5's particle use was also a mixture. His NTL use
increased in three particles (+5% to +48%) but decreased in two (-12% to -
45%). However, S5 showed some improvement, as seen in S3, bringing four
particles (no, de, to, ka) used as NTL at Time 1 to TL at Time 2, whichprobably
was the results of instruction. It was not very clear whether his initial achieve-
ment of Superior (3) had effects on holding his ability in particle use. In the
case of S6, there were only three particles that showed substantial changes.
NTL use of no decreased greatly (-89%), while that of ga and ka increased con-
siderably (+45%, +25%).
The rates of change were rather small for the other particles. S6's overall per-
formance could be a support for H1. With some caution, S7 was clearly a case of
progression toward the target norm in particle use, inasmuch as all NTL use was
decreased (-5% to -67%). It appeared that in his case the Superior level he had at
the beginning provided not only a barrier to attrition of Japanese particle use but
also a foundation for promoting further learning in the foreign language.
The microanalysis revealed that particle use as interlanguage was still in a
state of flux in most subjects, but certain evidence of decline was detected. In
sum, from the data analyses of the subjects' particle use, the prediction in H1
was supported in S1, S6, and S7. It was not clear in S2, S4, and S5. It was not
supported in S3.
A Multiple Case Study of American University Students 181
Sentence Structure
The purpose of the sentence structure analysis was to investigate the changes in
subjects' interlanguage between Time 1 and Time 2 in producing complex sen-
tences in terms of the length of T-unit. The number of embedded clauses and
words was investigated. First, the production of nontargetlikeT-units, simple sen-
tences, and words at Time 1 and Time 2 were examined, setting a background for
the discussion in the same way that the subjects' NTL particle use was examined
in the previous section. The results are presented in Table 8.4. in the Appendix.
Notice that, except for S6, who showed a sharp increase of 68%, all sub-
jects' NTL production of T-units decreased at Time 2. S2, S3, and S7 decreased
more than 35%, and S1, S4, and S5 also did so but within a narrow range (-3%
to -9%). A similar pattern emerged in the production of nontargetlike simple
sentences. S6 showed a large increase at +50%. S4 and S5 increased a little. S1,
S2, S3 and S7 exhibited a considerable decrease. In the production of nontarget-
like words, the pattern was repeated again. S2, S3, and S7 demonstrated a
decrease of NTL word use at Time 2, as they did in T-units and simple sen-
tences. S1, S4, and S5 also showed a decrease but in different degrees (-6% to
-20%). S6 increased even in NTL word use at +38%. His case appeared to be an
aberration among the subjects. A closer examination of the results revealed that
the percentage of S6's NTL production at Time 1 was much lower than other
subjects. For example, NTLT units were only 15.9%, lower than those of S7,
who showed a consistent decrease in the three areas and an extremely low per-
centage compared to S1's 57.8%. The same pattern was seen in NTL simple sen-
tences and words, which were 13.4% and 2.4% at Time 1. When S6's rates
increased at Time 2 (26.7%, 20.1%, 3.3%, respectively), they were still lower
than most of the other subjects' rates. The effects of S6's low rates of NTL pro-
duction were felt in the analysis of structural complexity and T-unit length,
which are presented in the next section.
As was observed in the analysis of NTL particle use, the results from NTL
sentence structure analysis again revealed the idiosyncratic nature of interlan-
guage development in individual subjects. As a result, the examination of each
feature across subjects did not provide confirmation of the hypothesis. There-
fore, the discussion is limited to each subject's change in oral performance
across features. Except for S6, all subjects' NTL productions decreased over the
study period. They produced more targetlike T-units, simple sentences, and
words at Time 2. S2, S3, and S7 improved considerably (-25% to -47%) and S1,
S4, and S5 slightly (-3% to -20%). The results failed to support H1 in that sub-
jects S1, S2, S3 were able to retain or improve the rate of NTL structure at Time
2, while S6 showed a decline. The improvement that was shown by subjects
might have been attributable to the instruction during the academic year or sub-
jects' heightened consciousness for accuracy at Time 2, inasmuch as it was the
end-of-year oral test.
More TL production of T-units, simple sentences, and words might not neces-
sarily be an indication of advanced improvement of oral skill, however, because
the subjects could simplify the sentence structure in order to avoid errors. There-
182 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
fore, the data were analyzed for the purpose of finding changes in subjects' abil-
ity to create complex sentences with accuracy. Table 8.5 (see Appendix) shows
the complexity of sentence structure (shown by the number of simple sentences
embedded in a T-unit) and the length of T-unit (shown by the number of words
per T unit) produced by each subject and the percentage change between Time 1
and Time 2, both in total (S/T, W/T) and error-free count (EFS/EFT, EFW/EFT).
S2 and S7, who showed a considerable decrease in NTL production of T-units
(-38%, -47%, respectively), simple sentences (-37%, -39%), and words (-42%,
-44%), also decreased considerably in the embeddedness and in the length of T-
units. S2's loss was a decrease of 18% in total embeddedness (-24% in error-
free) and a decrease of 30% in T-unit length (-46% in error-free). Those of S7
were -20% (-26%) and -24% (-34%), respectively. The reduction in the number
of words and embedded sentence production may have resulted in the reduction
of NTL production, inasmuch as T-units that contained fewer subordinate
clauses might well have contained fewer errors. S3, S4, and S5 showed a consis-
tent decrease in both areas as well, though S3's rates remained small. On the
other hand, S6 and S1 demonstrated an increase in all areas. As with his perfor-
mance in NTL structure, S6 showed increase in complex sentence production at
the change rates of+ 11% and +13% (+18%, +28% in error-free). A further anal-
ysis of his data revealed that his utterances at Time 1 were characterized by their
brevity and accuracy. Any attempts to produce more complex and longer sen-
tences resulted in an increase of embedded sentences. S1's increase rate was
small at +9% and +14% (+8%, +5% in error-free), like her small percentage
decrease in NTL production.
This part of the data analyses of the subjects' oral performance change in sen-
tence structure in oral performance produced mixed results in supporting H1. The
cases that upheld the hypothesis were S2 and S3, whose initial achievement was
Advanced High (2+) and who experienced decline in the feature. The Advanced
(2) speaker, S1, on the other hand, showed an increase in her production of error-
free complex sentences, however small the rates were. Of the four Superior (3)
speakers, only S6's case supported the hypothesis, while the other three (S4, S5,
S7) showed various degrees of decline. Among the latter three, S7 exhibited high
rates of decrease, but the content of his performance might explain the phe-
nomenon. His production of complex sentences was very high at Time 1 (S/T
1.96, EFS/EFT 2.21) and also of T-unit length (W/T 15.9, EFW/EFT 20.6), which
presented almost a reversal case of S6, whose production was one of the lowest.
Even S7's decreased rates at Time 2 were still higher than most subjects' rates.
Fluency
The third feature analyzed was the change in the subjects' oral fluency in terms
of speech rate and pauses (temporal elements) and repetitions and self-correc-
tions (dysfluency markers). First, an attempt was made to measure each sub-
ject's rate of articulation in speech. All syllables uttered in the two-minute seg-
ment were counted, and then the total number of syllables was divided by the
total utterance time in seconds.
A Multiple Case Study of American University Students 183
The results presented in Table 8.6 (see Appendix) show that in five cases (S1,
S4, S5, S6, S7) the subjects' articulation rates did not suffer during the period of
less use and exposure in the foreign language environment. In these five cases,
the change of percentage of usage remained relatively low. The range went
from -2% to +7% in the unpruned rate and from zero to +5% in the pruned rate.
The results suggested that, in general, the articulation rate in L2 was a personal
trait, which would not be affected in a short period of time when the language
environment is changed from the target language country to a foreign language
environment. The noticeable differences in rates between "unpruned" and
"pruned" in S1 (.7 at both Time 1 and Time 2) and S2 (.3 at Time 1 and .8 at
Time 2) indicated a fair number of dysfluency features, such as repetitions and
self-corrections, which will be discussed in a later section.
Next, the individual subjects' pause time, both unfilled and filled, was exam-
ined as a possible indicator of oral skill attrition. All pauses over 0.2 seconds
between phrases and sentences, and lengthened syllables within a word were
measured from the oscillograms, and the percentage of these pauses in the total
delivery segment was calculated. The summary of this analysis shown in Table
8.7 (see Appendix) reveals an increase in total pause time for S1, S2, S3, S4,
and S6. Of all, S2 showed the most dramatic increase, particularly in unfilled
pauses, which became longer (+90% at Time 2). The mean length went from
485 msec to 895 msec, an 85% increase. As discussed in the previous section,
S2's high increase coincided with his high articulation rate increases, +2%
(unpruned), +23% (pruned) respectively. This seems to indicate that the
speaker hesitated longer at Time 2 than he did at Time 1, but once he started
speaking, he hurried to finish his utterances as quickly as possible. S1's
increase in unfilled pause time was also quite high at +33% (mean length
increase of +55%), although her total pause time was a little lower at +26%.
Speakers S3 and S4 showed some increase in total pause time (+16%, +10%),
while S5 and S7 demonstrated decrease consistently in all areas (-14%, -17% of
total pause time). The rate of S6 was small enough (+2%) to be interpreted as a
retention case. In sum, the analysis of data indicated that between Time 1 and
Time 2, subjects were not affected in their articulation rate, but they were
affected differently in pause duration. A considerable increase in hesitation
pauses was observed for S1 and S2. Some increases were seen for S3 and S4.
There was a slight increase for S6. There was a decrease for S5 and S7. Except
for S4, who showed decline, the changes in pause time in these subjects sup-
ported the hypothesis.
In addition to the above temporal elements of speech rate and pauses, dysflu-
ency markers of repetitions and self-corrections were analyzed to examine the
changes in the subjects' oral fluency. Table 8.8 (see Appendix) shows the results
of the analysis. The analysis revealed that the occurrence of false starts was very
low in almost all subjects. They were found in each subject at Time 1 and at
Time 2 in the following frequencies: S1 (0, 1), S2 (4, 2), S3 (1, 7), S4 (6, 6), S5
(1, 2), S6 (4, 4), and S7 (2, 9). These are not shown in the table because of their
low frequencies but are included in the total. The repetition rate per T-unit for S1
and S2 was by far the highest. It was .19 at Time 1 and .32 at Time 2 for S1. S2
184 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
showed .35 at Time 1 and .28 at Time 2. Although S2 repeated less at Time 2,
his overall high rate was notable. Student 6 also increased in repetition, and S3
showed repetition only at Time 2. The others, S4, S5, and S7, showed decreases
in the repetition rate.
The change in the rate of self-correction was somewhat similar to that of rep-
etition. Student 2 still showed the highest rate at Time 1 (.29), but this was
decreased at Time 2 (.18). S1's increase at Time 2 was large at +120%, and so
was S6's at +60%. Student 4's increase at +200% could not be interpreted as
important since the rate itself was low at both Time 1 (.03) and Time 2 (.09). The
others (S3, S5, S7) showed a decrease at Time 2. The results from this part of the
data analysis were mixed in regard to the hypothesis. The cases of S1, S5, and
S7 supported it. Those of S3 and S4 were not clear. Those of S2 and S6 did not
support it.
A summary of the findings and discussions from the above data analyses, for
all features studied for each of the subjects, is presented in Table 8.9 (see
Appendix) together with the final OPI ratings. Few subjects demonstrated attri-
tion and retention clearly in the features chosen and analyzed for this study that
were predicted in H2. Nor was the relationship between their initial ratingsand
subsequent oral performance in the foreign language environment as clear as
was hypothesized. However, within the limitation of the feature analysis, a cer-
tain attrition and retention profile for each subject emerged. Most of these pro-
files gave support for H1. Students 1 and S2, who showed attrition in more than
two areas, declined in overall speaking proficiency as their level went down to
Intermediate High (1+) and Advanced (2), respectively.
On the other hand, S5, S6, and S7, who revealed retention in more than two
features, also retained their proficiency level (Superior [3]). Two cases, S3 and
S4, who showed attrition in two features, however, did not support the hypothe-
sis. Student 3, whose initial rating was Advanced High (2+), lost in sentence
structure and pause time, but she maintained her overall initial level. S4, regard-
less of his initial Superior (3) achievement, showed a loss in two areas and
mixed results in other two and rated lower (2+) at the end. It was possible that
S3's level could have been much higher than her rating of Advanced High (2+),
and that of S4 could have been lower than Superior (3). The results might have
shown one of the areas where the ACTFL guidelines reveals its weakness in that
it defines as Advanced High (2+) the speaker's ability to "support opinions,
explain in detail, and hypothesize [just like the superior speaker], but this ability
is not consistent. Under pressure or stress, control of stylistic registers and/or
complicated structures may prove inadequate" (ACTFL 1986). Another inter-
pretation could depend on the difference in the stability of language mass these
two subjects had at the beginning of the study. Both had improved their ratings,
during the summer immersion program. Student 3 rated Advanced (2) and S4
rated Advanced High (2+) immediately before they went to Japan. However, S3
built up a sufficient mass of languageto maintain her level in the foreign lan-
guage environment,while S4 could not. Like S3, S2 was also rated Advanced
High (2+), but he showed a decline. The results indicated that the initial
achievement was not the only factor affecting changes in the subjects' speaking
A Multiple Case Study of American University Students 185
performance during the study period. As it was hypothesized that other fac-
torsattitudes and motivation, language use outside the classroom, and
language learning backgroundsvariably affected the attrition and reten-
tion of the subjects, the roles of these factors are discussed in the following
section.
Attitudes and Motivation and Language Use
The third research question and hypothesis were concerned with the relationship
between attrition and retention and the affective factors of attitude and motiva-
tion and language use outside the classroom. Prior to the study, it was assumed
that all subjects had come to the graduate school with very favorable attitudes
toward Japan, its people, and its language and with a high degree of motivation
to study the language and culture, which constituted the core of the M.A. pro-
gram. Therefore, in place of being tested by existing measurements, the subjects
completed a questionnaire on the nature of their motivation, whether integrative
or instrumental. Six follow-up interviews with the researcher were conducted
throughout the academic year to detect any changes in their attitudes and moti-
vation. Information on the degree of their Japanese use outside the classroom
was collected from the interviews as well. Table 8.10 (in the Appendix) lists
1) individual subjects' type of motivation and partial quotes from their statement
in the questionnaire, 2) change or no change in their motivation, 3) a short sum-
mary from the follow-up interviews regarding the state of motivation, and 4)
language use outside the classroom.
Each subject had a different motivation profile, and not all subjects maintained
the initial intensity of attitudes and motivation. Furthermore, their Japanese use
outside the classroom seemed to coincide with the state of their motivation. The
distinction between integrative motivation and instrumental motivation did not
necessarily predict whether the subjects would go through changes in motivation
and language proficiency during the academic year. For example, among the
three subjects who claimed their motivation to be integrative, S1, who lived in
Japan as a teenager with her parents and was very interested in Japanese culture,
experienced frustration in learning the language since her improvement seemed
very slow. There seemed to have been a slight shift in her motivation when she
started learning Spanish on a casual basis in the spring semester. She also began
to consider French, which she had learned for five years in high school and col-
lege, as the foreign language in her future career. The change in her motivation
seemed to have been strongly related to her attrition in proficiency (from 2 to
1+), as it affected her willingness to use Japanese outside the classroom. The
other two with integrative motivation did not suffer attrition. Student 3 was anx-
ious to raise her (2+) level to the required superior level (3) so that she would not
have to worry too much about "losing." Her awareness of the greater demands of
learning a non-West-European language led her to arrange additional practice
sessions outside the classroom. As discussed before, S3 maintained her initial
level even when she attrited in two features, sentence structure and pause time.
186 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
But in particle use, she showed improvement. It was possible that her strong
motivation to maintain her current level and her conscious effort to practice
Japanese with a language exchange partner helped her sustain the level. Student
5, who had come to the program with a superior (3) rating, saw his job search in
the second year as the culmination of his language learning effort, and he
focused on consulting or financial companies where he could demonstrate his
expertise in the Japanese language and international business. Accordingly, he
made a great effort to use Japanese where possible.
Of the four subjects who answered that their motivation was instrumental,
only one displayed a predicted relationship between motivation and language
loss. It was S4, who attrited from Superior (3) to Advanced High (2+), a case
which did not support H1. He said that his priority in his second year was to find
a job, and therefore studying in general, including Japanese, came after that. In
the process of the job search, he lost motivation to study Japanese because he
had found out that neither Japanese nor American companies were necessarily
looking for a candidate who could speak Japanese. In addition, in a professional
position offered to him, he had learned that he would not be sent to Japan in the
near future. He claimed, however, that his motivation had been very high in his
first year because he had to prepare for an internship in Japan during the follow-
ing summer. Although his first encounter with the people and language was
through his denominational missionary work in Japan nine years prior to the
research, his primary interest in learning Japanese seemed, at least during the
study period, to be that of material gain. He seemed most concerned with get-
ting a desirable job. When it became clear that maintaininghis proficiency in
Japanese would not be advantageous in his job search or in his future job, S4
lost motivation, however temporarily. An external factor that might have played
a role in S4's motivation loss and attrition might be the graduate program's pol-
icy for exit proficiency level. The policy then required the student to demon-
strate a superior level (3) speaking performance at least once, not necessarily at
the last test, out of five ACTFL oral tests given during his or her two-year study
at the graduate school. (Later, the policy was changed to require Superior at the
exit test.) Student 4 was rated as Superior for the first time in his fourth test at
the beginning of the second academic year, but in the fifth and final test, he was
rated as Advanced High (2+). Once he had obtained the required level, he did
not have to worry much about maintenance and made little use of the language.
Again in S4, the attitudinal and motivational factor seemed to have played a sig-
nificant role in his attrition.
Students 6 and 7 did not show changes in motivation or in their superior pro-
ficiency level. Student 6 was acutely aware of his lack of Japanese use outside
the classroom and his declining speaking performance. In one of the interviews,
he said he felt that his performance was somewhere between 50% to 60% of his
initial peak performance. This type of low self-evaluation is reported in Clark &
Jorden's (1984) study: The self-ratings of those who did not use Japanese were
lower than their actual proficiency levels. Within this group, perhaps S2's case
was different, in that he experienced attrition (from 2+ to 2) even when he had
maintained high attitude and motivation and even when his motivation had
come to include more integrative character as the year progressed. It was not the
level of motivation, but the change in focus in language study that might have
been related to his attrition in speaking. He judged that he could improve his
speaking more efficiently during the upcoming summer immersion in Japan, and
so he would focus his study more on reading during the school year.
The results of analysis in attitudes and motivation and language use sup-
ported H3. It was observed that three subjects (S1, S2, S4) lost their motivation,
made little use of Japanese outside the classroom, and thus experienced attrition.
Four subjects (S3, S5, S6, S7) maintained their motivation, made efforts to use
the language, and retained their level. The case of S3, who retained her level of
Advanced High (2+) with strong motivation and language use, called for
Advanced High; H1 to include the level as one that would be immune to attri-
tion as well. The results also showed support for Gardner & Maclntyre (1991) in
the notion that both types of motivation were effective in language learning.
Language Learning Background
The final research question focused on the relationship of the L2 learning back-
grounds of the individual subjects to their attrition and retention of the language.
It was hypothesized that those who had longer formal study of Japanese and a
longer stay in Japan would be more resistant to attrition. The information about
subjects' past experiences in learning Japanese and their visits and periods of
residence in Japan was collected from the questionnaire and discussed in more
detail during the follow-up interviews with the researcher. Table 8.11 (in the
Appendix) shows 1) types of institution and lengths of study for formal Japanese
study and 2) types and lengths of long term stays or visits in Japan.
Except for the required summer program in the first year (1.5 months of lan-
guage study and 0.5 months of culture study) and the summer internship in the
second year (approximately three months)both in Japanthe subjects had
very diverse backgrounds in learning Japanese and in their contacts with Japan.
As for the length of formal language study, S1 had the longest study period
(over five years). S2 had the shortest (about nine months). S1's study of
Japanese at an American high school in Japan, however, consisted of noninten-
sive basic courses for all three years. It is notable that the three subjects who
experienced attrition (S1, S2, S4) first went to Japan either to work or to live.
Thus they had exposure to the language prior to their formal learning of the lan-
guage. Student 1 lived in Japan for three years with her parents, who were on a
business assignment. Student 2 worked 19 months as a commercial attache at
the French embassy in Tokyo. Student 4 worked in Japan for two years as a mis-
sionary. It might give support, though on a very limited scale, to the notion that
language acquisition takes place more efficiently when both comprehensible
input and grammar (conscious learning, particularly at the beginning stage in
adult learners) are provided (Krashen 1981). Without explicit knowledge of the
language, the input they received in Japan as naturalistic acquirers would have
been incomprehensible. Thus effective, speedy acquisition of Japanese might
A Multiple Case Study of American University Students 187
188 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
not have resulted because it was slowed down by the necessity of processing
unmarked data (Larsen-Freeman & Long, 1991:321)3
. Except for S1, who had
two years instruction at college (at the intermediate level) the subsequent formal
instruction undertaken by the other two subjects was rather short. Student 2
studied about nine months, and S4 studied a little over one year. In all three
cases, formal instruction might not have been enough in either length or inten-
sity to help them build up the critical mass that would have maintained their
advanced levels in speaking proficiency. The time spent in Japan following (or
simultaneously, in S2's case) their formal instruction was characterized by its
shortness. Student 1 and S2 spent only two months (the first-year summer pro-
gram), and S4 stayed five months (two months in the first year summer program
and three months in the second-year internship). Students 3, 5, 6, and 7, who
maintained their levels, had intensive initial instruction for two years to nearly
four years either in Japan or in colleges in the United States. Their stay in Japan
following (or simultaneously, in S5's case) the formal instruction might have
enforced and solidified their learning, even if the length of stay was relatively
short, as in S3's nine-month contact.
The outcome of the above discussion generally supported H4 in that the
longer formal study enforced by a simultaneous or subsequent stay in Japan facil-
itated acquisition of the advanced levels, which were resistant to attrition. Wei-
tens et al. (1986) reported small loss among students who had four to six years of
instruction as well, although research on the impact of method, content or inten-
sity of instruction on attrition and retention has yet to be done. The results call for
an alteration of the first half of H4 as follows (in italics): Speakers who had
longer formal study of Japanese prior to (or simultaneously with) their stay in
Japan and a longer stay in Japan were predicted to be more resistant to attrition.
Interpretations and Implications for Attrition Research
One of the major findings of the study was the threshold level of Advanced
High (2+) or higher that seemed to resist attrition. The inclusion of Advanced
High was a little unexpected, inasmuch it was hypothesized that Superior (3) or
higher level would be the attrition threshold. Although S5, S6, and S7 main-
tained their Superior level throughout the study period, it was observed that S3,
whose initial level was Advanced High, also managed to retain her level. It
could be interpreted that these subjects had acquired sufficient language mass
for retention in the foreign language environment. In S3's case, it seemed that
the content of her Advanced High achievement was close to the Superior level
and that some other factors might be at work. Among those who showed decline
in rating at Time 2 (S1, S2, S4), S1's case was the only one that revealed an ini-
tial level lower than Advanced High, which was not high enough for maintain-
ing the level in the foreign language learning environment, as she experienced
decline from Advanced to Intermediate High. Students 2 and 4 revealed some-
what different patterns from others. Student 2, unlike S3, could not maintain his
Advanced High level at Time 2 and declined to Advanced. Student 4, whose ini-
A Multiple Case Study of American University Students 189
tial level was Superior, rated lower as Advanced High at Time 2. These findings
indicated that certain proficiency levels would resist (or allow) attrition. The
anomalous cases, however, implied that factors other than initialproficiency
play a role in the progression and regression of L2 oral proficiency.
Findings from the analysis of attitude and motivation and language use were
also significant in that they provided certain explanations for anomalies in the
responses, such as those shown in S2 and S4 described above, as well as a sup-
port for the maintenance in S3, S5, S6, S7 and decline in S1. Students 2 and 4
showed changes in their motivation and made little use of Japanese outside the
classroom, which seemed to have contributed to the decline of their ratings at
Time 2. Subjects who maintained their proficiency levels kept their motivation
high throughoutthe study period and sought to use the language in foreign lan-
guage environment, whereas S1's decline corresponded to her motivational
change and limited use of Japanese.
The difference in individual language learning background was found to be
related to attrition, as expected. The relationship was indirect, however, in that
factors such as the length of study and of language contact in Japan presumably
contributed toward building a critical mass for retention rather than directly pre-
venting attrition. All subjects who maintained their proficiency levels had inten-
sive instruction (two to three years) either at college (S3, S6, S7) or at language
school in Japan (S5). The instruction was followed (or given simultaneously in
S5's case) by extended language contacts in Japan (nine months to 39months),
which seemed to have affected the buildup that slowed the attrition curve. An
unexpected finding within this small-scale study was the timing of instruction in
relation to language contact and its relevance to language maintenance and attri-
tion. While all the maintenance group had instructionprior to (or simultaneously
with) their language contact, all the attrition group had rather extensive language
contact (19 to 36 months) prior to their formal instructionin Japanese. Although
the relation of the intensity of prior exposure to language acquisition was not
investigated in the study, the finding was interpreted as the instruction having a
speedup effect for reaching the threshold level. In attrition research, particularly
the investigation of attrition among advanced level learners, these individual fac-
tors may be considered important, because they seem to play significant roles in
acquiring the higher level of language proficiency. The relationships of instruc-
tion and immersionto what extent and at what point in language learningto
the ultimate achievement may pose an especially important research question.
With respect to the question of what was lost, the overall amount of attrition
in the three features investigated was small; rather, there was evidence of
improvement within every individual case. For example, among those who
showed indication of attrition (S1, S2, S4), S1 retained, however minimally it
had been, her ability to produce accurate and complex sentences; S2 declined in
the TL use of four particles, but improved in other four particles and so did he in
total repairs; S4 improved in six TL particles and in repetitions. Naturally, attri-
tion was even less, and more improvement was seen among those who demon-
strated overall retention of their proficiency levels and oral performance (S3, S5,
S6, S7): S3 showed a strong improvement in all TL particle use and in self-cor-
190 The Loss of Japanese as a Second Language
rections; S5 slightly improved in TL particle use and used shorter pause time
and fewer repairs; S6 improved only in two TL particle use, but produced more
complex and longer sentences; S7 increased in more TL use in all particles and
decreased in pause time and repairs. The patterns in maintenance or loss of skills
came as no surprise because of the specific environmentcontinued instruction
and reduced exposure and use, instead of non-usewhich enabled the subjects
to improve in certain areas, and because of the advanced level of their profi-
ciency, which helped to resist attrition. Even though a certain amount of attrition
was observed to support the research hypotheses, it would be hard to argue that
the amount was sufficient to affect subjects' communicative function. Moreover,
at this minimal level of attrition, it would probably be possible for most subjects
to regain the earlier proficiency once they had opportunities to return to Japan.
The study basically gave support to the graduate institute's language require-
ments as well as to suggestions for its foreign language instruction to better
maintain the speaking proficiency strengthened by studies in Japan. However, an
attrition study that would be more longitudinal in scope and which would focus
on more specific features that are characteristic of advanced speech in Japanese
(e.g., idiomatic expressions, honorifics, or registers) would provide clearer indi-
cations of L2 acquisition processes.
Finally, regardless of the difficulty with the ACTFL rating scale and its appli-
cation to setting a baseline in attrition research, this study was the first to use
seminaturalistic data (OPI tapes) and thus was able to capture the attrition phe-
nomena from a more naturalistic and global point of view. As communication is
the ultimate goal of L2 learning, the use of naturalistic data drawn from real-life
communication may reveal more realistic aspects of L2 attrition. In addition, the
qualitative analysis of these seven cases and their cross-examination provided
tools to investigate the idiosyncratic nature of attrition in individualsubjects. In
attrition research, especially at advanced levels such as this study, data may
yield more insightful results when they are analyzedqualitatively.
Further investigation of the attrition of L2 Japanese-speaking skills con-
ducted with a larger number of subjects with different initial achievement levels
and with naturalistic data as well as structured interviews would be useful to
supplement the findings of the present study. For the investigation of advanced
speaker attrition, the definition of proficiency levels according to ILR scale,
which divide the ACTFL Superior into five more different levels, might provide
a better baseline for oral skill change. Since a relatively small number of studies
have been conducted on the L2 Japanese attrition of speaking skills among adult
speakers, any further research will contribute information about the "threshold"
level, which would have washback effects not only on Japanese teachers and
learners but also on L2 teaching and learning in general.
Implications for L2 Japanese Course Design and Pedagogy
Keeping in mind the limitations of this study and the nature of attritionphenom-
ena, some implications can still be drawn for L2 Japanese course design and
A Multiple Case Study of American University Students 191
pedagogy. In the context of the graduate program, whose concern for the stu-
dents' oral skill maintenance motivated this study, the findings provide certain
guidelines for admission and academic policy, as well as for course design and
pedagogy. First, considering the long hours necessary for moving from an
advanced to superior level (1080-1440 hours; Hadley 1993:28) and the non-
intensive nature of language courses (two 80-minute classes per week), the
admission cutoff needs to be higher than Advanced. Second, considering the
strong relationship between motivation and the maintenance of proficiency
level, the academic requirement needs to be set to achieve and to maintain a
Superior rating to the last OPI test, rather than merely to achieve it at any one
point of their five tests; thus keeping students' motivation high for retaining
their levels. Third, considering the attrition phenomena among lower-level
speakers (Advanced or Advanced High) and their relationships to motivation
and use, the course designs need to focus more on speaking practice, including
providing extracurricular activities that would enhance their motivation and
confidence to use Japanese with native speakers who are readily available on
campus.
In the general L2 Japanese-teaching context, the study draws attention to
Clark & Jorden's (1984) notion that if the goal of language learning were to be
lifelong use, then the design of language learning and teaching should focus on
reaching the level that would be resistant to attrition (e.g., the Advanced High
level (2+) or above). Because it has been the experience of the FSI that
Japanese is one of the languages that takes the longest to attain the advanced-
high level or above (2,400 to 2,760 hours average; Hadley 1993), the inclusion
and integration of study in Japan as part of the course design seems almost
imperative for learners who strive to attain the level. A survey by Jorden &
Lambert (1991) on Japanese language instruction in the United States shows
that college students are eager to develop speaking skills. However, the time
required to achieve useful proficiency is given as one of the main reasons to
drop courses. In order to give learners enough time to achieve their goals, a
course design needs to have a more long-term perspective. For example, the
integration of course design at secondary school and at college levels would
enhance the effectiveness in terms of time and the learner's motivation. As the
number of precollegiate Japanese programs has grown recently, a need for
articulating secondary school instruction with its college-level counterpart has
been realized in recent years, and the National Foreign Language Center (1993)
has completed a curriculum framework for introductory Japanese courses in
high schools and colleges.
In preparing the learners to reach the goal, it would appear to be beneficial to
make the initial instruction intensive and to take a proficiency-oriented approach
from the beginning. Testing the student's proficiency periodically on a standard-
ized scale would be effective for showing where the student is in terms of his or
her ultimate goal of learning Japanese and for enhancing his or her motivation.
Teaching language-learning strategies would also stimulate the student's moti-
vation for acquisition and maintenance (Oxford 1990; O'Malley & Chamot
1990).
Appendix
Table 8.1. Subjects' Backgrounds
S1 S2 S3 S4 S5 S6 S7
Native language
Gender
Age
Length of formal Japanese study*
Length of stay in Japan*
Work experience*
U.S.
Japan
E F E E E E E
F M F M M M M
24 29 25 30 31 27 27
62 10 38 14 24 44 26
38 29 9 41 33 17 39
36 36** 24 24 36 24 12
0 19 7 15 3 3 37
Notes: *Numbers are in months and include work experience in Japan.
**in France and Austria only.
Table 8.2. ACTFL Rating at Time 1
S1 S2 S3 S4 S5 S6 S7
2+ 2+ 3
Note: Ratings are translated into numerical ILR/FSI
192
2 3 3 3
Table 8.3. Percentage (%) Change in Targetlike (TL) and Nontargetlike
(NTL) in Individual Speakers
Particles
S1
(2)
S2
(2+)
S3
(2+)
S4
(3)
S5
(3)
S6
(3)
S7
(3)
Case Marking
no
g a
0
ni
de
to
kara
ka
wa
mo
TL
NTL
TL
NTL
TL
NTL
TL
NTL
TL
NTL
TL
NTL
TL
NTL
TL
NTL
TL
NTL
TL
NTL
_l
+25
-27
+187
-18
+18
_5
+29
-24
+166
0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0
_2
+147
+3
-100
-9
+109
-3
+10
+1
-7
+7
-100
0
0
0
0
+6
-100
-11
+11
0+
0-
+18
-72
+14
-80
+2
_7
+8
-100
+4
-100
+11
-100
0
0
+4
-100
_7
+7
3
77
+21
-43
-12
+68
+10
-84
-12
+46
+2
-100
Conjunctive
+4
-100
Adverbial
0
0
+7
-59
-33
+33
+4
-100
-3
+28
-13
+48
0
+5
+11
-100
+1
-100
+1
-12
+8
-100
+3
-45
0
0
+12
-89
-7
+45
_5
+5
-4
+4
+11
-100
0
8
0
0
-25
+25
-4
+4
0
0
+2
-67
+15
-42
+3
-30
+2
-25
+9
-100
0
0
0
0
+22
-100
+1
-100
+1
_5
Notes: 100 simply indicates no TL use (all TL use at Time 2, and does not necessarily show actual change
from Time 1 to Time 2). A dash shows a structure was not elicited.
193
Table 8.4. Nontargetlike (NTL) Production of T-units, Simple Sentences, and
Words
Time 1
Time 2
% Change
S1
(2)
57.8
53.6
_7
S2
(2+)
48.7
30.0
-38
S3
(2+)
45.3
29.4
-35
S4
(3)
T-units
57.2
52.0
-9
S5
(3)
22.3
21.7
-3
S6
(3)
15.9
26.7
+68
S7
(3)
24.3
12.8
-47
Simple Sentences
Time 1
Time 2
% Change
Time 1
Time 2
% Change
Table 8.5.
Time 1
Time 2
% Change
Time 1
Time 2
% Change
Time 1
Time 2
% Change
Time 1
Time 2
% Change
48.2
43.2
-10
10.8
10.2
-6
40.8
25.7
-37
11.0
6.4
-42
Embeddedness and
S1
(2)
1.37
1.49
+9
1.69
1.82
8
10.5
12.0
+14
22.1
23.3
+5
S2
(2+)
1.53
1.26
-18
1.77
1.34
-24
12.5
8.7
-30
21.8
11.7
-46
32.3
20.1
-38
5.7
4.3
-25
41.8
43.2
+3
Words
11.4
9.1
-20
14.0
14.1
+1
2.6
2.2
-15
13.4
20.1
+50
2.4
3.3
+38
14.5
8.8
-39
2.3
1.3
-44
T-unit Length
S3
(2+)
1.66
1.66
0
2.06
1.88
-9
12.6
11.9
-6
21.7
16.2
-25
S4
(3)
S/T
1.69
1.39
-18
EFS/EFT
2.30
1.65
-28
W/T
13.4
10.6
-21
EFW/EFT
27.7
20.0
-28
S5
(3)
1.82
1.58
-13
2.01
1.73
-14
12.7
11.4
-10
16.0
14.3
-11
S6
(3)
1.19
1.32
+11
1.22
1.44
+18
9.3
10.5
+13
10.8
13.8
+28
S7
(3)
1.96
1.57
-20
2.21
1.64
-26
15.9
12.1
-24
20.6
13.7
-34
194
Table 8.6. Articulation Rate (Syllables/Second)
Time 1
Time 2
% change
Time1
Time2
% change
Time 1
Time 2
SI
(
2
)
4.5
4.6
+ 16
5.2
5.3
+2
-0.7
-0.7
S2
(2+)
5.8
6.7
+2
6.1
7.5
+23
-0.3
-0.8
S3 S4
(2+) (3)
Unpruned (UP)*
5.4 7.2
7.7 7.3
+43 +1
Pruned (
P
)
*
5.8 7.4
7.8 7.6
+35 +3
UP-P
-0.4 -0.2
-0.1 -0.3
S5
(3)
6.8
6.7
-2
7.1
7.1
0
-0.3
-0.4
S6
(3)
6.2
6.6
+7
6.7
7.0
+5
-0.5
-0.4
S7
(3)
6.9
7.1
+3
7.4
7.6
+3
-0.5
-0.5
Notes: *A11 syllables/total on time in seconds
**Syllables (excludingrepetitions, self-corrections, and pause-fillers)/total time on these syllables.
Table 8.7. Pause Time and Mean Length of Unfilled Pause Time
S1
(2)
S2
(2+)
S3
(2+)
S4
(3)
S5
(3)
S6
(3)
S7
(3)
Unfilled Pause Time as % of Total Delivery Time
Time 1
Time 2
% change
31.2
41.6
+33
27.9
52.9
+90
25.7
38.9
+51
24.8
28.8
+16
30.8 30.7
25.7 38.0
-17 +24
36.0
29.8
-17
Filled Pause Time as % of Total Delivery Time
Time 1
Time 2
% change
13.3
14.4
+8
10.0
16.3
-37
11.8
4.7
-60
5.6
5.0
-11
6.0
5.8
-3
14.6
8.2
-44
9.8
8.1
-17
Total Pause Time (Unfilled and Filled) as % of Total Delivery Time
Time 1
Time 2
% change
44.5
56.0
+26
37.9
59.2
-56
37.5
43.6
+16
30.4
33.3
+10
Mean Length of Unfilled
Time 1
Time 2
% change
578
897
+55
485
895
+85
535
637
+19
631
605
+4
36.8
31.5
-14
Pauses (msec)
638
519
-19
45.3
46.2
+2
568
605
+7
45.8
37.9
-17
641
535
-17
195
Table 8.8. Repair Phenomena
Time 1
Time 2
% change
S1
(2)
0.19
0.32
+68
S2
(2+)
0.36
0.28
-22
S3 S4
(2+) (3)
Repetitions T-unit
00.10 0.06
0.09 0.07
* -30 -33
S5
(3)
0.12
0.04
+58
S6
(3)
0.15
0.19
-47
S7
(3)

0.08

Self-correction/T-unit
Time 1
Time 2
% change
Time 1
Time 2
% change
0.05
0.11
+120
0.24
0.44
+83
0.29
0.18
-38
0.68
0.47
-31
0.12 0.03
0.04 0.09
-67 +200
Repair Total**
0.13 0.16
0.18 0.20
+38 +25
0.08
0.06
-25
0.15
0.11
-27
0.15
0.24
+60
0.30
0.46
+53
0.19
0.11
-42
0.35
0.24
-31
Notes: *The figure is mathematically undefinable.
**Includesfalse starts.
Table 8.9. Summary of Results
S1 S2 S3 S4 S5 S6 S7
Oral Proficiency Interview Rating
Time 1
Time 2
Particle Use
Sentence Structure
Fluency Pause Time
Repair
2
1 +
At
Rt
At
At
2+
2
NC
At
At
Rt
2+
2+
Rt
At
At
NC
3
2+
Features
NC
At
At
NC
3
3
NC
At
Rt
Rt
3
3
Rt
Rt
Rt
At
3
3
Rt
At
Rt
Rt
Notes: At = attrition
Rt = retention
NC = not clear
196
Table 8.10. Types of Motivation and Changes over the Academic Year
S1 Integrative: "to understandthe intuitive Japanese culture"
(2) Somewhat changed. Frustrated for her slow improvement in Japanese. Started Learning Span-
ish in the spring and also began contemplating using her French for her long-term career goal.
Language use: little use
S2 Instrumental: "Japanese is important in international business"
(2+) Not changed overall, but shifted focus on reading. Maintained strong motivation for the fol-
lowing summer's internship in Japan. Viewed language as a tool for understandingthe people
and for enjoying literature.
Language use: little use
S3 Integrative: "to understand my own cultural heritage"
(2+) Not changed. Worried about her level. Wanted to reach Superior soon so that she could relax,
not worrying about attrition. Was aware of disadvantage in learning Japanese which took
longer than other languages to acquire higher level.
Language use: speaking 1-2 hours per week
S4 Instrumental:"speaking Japanese is advantageous in international business"
(3) Changed. Job search was more important than studyingin general. Lost motivation because
business was not interested in Americans who could speak Japanese, and he would also not be
working in Japan for some time in the job he was offered.
Language use: little use
S5 Integrative: "to know the Japanese people better"
(3) Not changed. Maintained a strong motivation. Was determined to find employment in which
his proficiency in Japanese would be an advantage. Found a position in a Japanese bank where
there was a prospect for higher position in the future.
S6 Instrumental: "Japanese is more important in international business than Chinese at the
moment"
(3) Not changed. Very aware of the state of his speaking proficiency.At the end of the academic
year, he thought his performance was 50-60% of initial level. Frustrated by his slow improve-
ment in his Superior level and the inconsistency of his speaking performance. Believed that
Japanese would be useful in his future career in computer software industry.
Language use: newspaper reading and disucssion; reading for research
S7 Instrumental:"mainly for the joy of learning a difficult language"
(3) Not changed. Enjoyed learning about foreign countries and languages in general. Chose
Japanese because of his interest in computer and artificial intelligence. Found a position in an
American computer company in Japan. Believed that the success in language learning was
ultimately a matter of a strong will on the learner's part.
Language use: journal reading; video watching; converation with Japanese EFL students on
campus
197
Table 8.11. Language Learning Backgrounds: Types and
Length of Japanese Study, Length of Stay in Japan (in months)
Types and Length of Japanese Study
S1
(2)
S2
(2+)
S3
(2+)
S4
(3)
high school'
college
summer2
language school3
summer
college
summer
college
summer
36
24
1.5
8
1.5
36
1.5
12
1.5
Length of stay in Japan
residence
summer
job
school
summer4
job
summer
childhood residence
missionary
job 1
summer
job 2
36
2
19
8
2
7
2
6
24
12
2
3
S5 language school 12 school 30
S6
(3)
S7
(3)
college
summer
college
summer
42
1.5
24
1.5
school
summer
job
job l
summer
job 2
12
2
3
36
2
1
Notes: ' An American high school in Japan.
2
A summer intensive course in Japan as part of the graduate program. S5 was
exempted from the requirement.
3
A private language school in Japan.
4
Six week language study and two week culture study in Japan.
198
A Multiple Case Study of American University Students 199
Notes
1. Originally, all nine students enrolled in the Japanese program were to be included in
the study,but two of them had to be dropped: One did not go to Japan during the sum-
mer, and the Time 2 ACTFL test tape of the other student was not recorded.
2. Although deletion is not uncommon among native speakers in casual conversation, it
was counted as NTL. The rationale behind the decision was the rather low appropri-
ateness rated by two native speakers. Of the total 166 deletions made by the subjects
at both T1 and T2, one native speaker marked 50 (30.1%) as appropriate, but the other
marked on 20 (12.0%). Both marked 15 (9.0%) of the same deletions as appropriate.
Another consideration was the sociolinguistic environment where the examinees, as
advanced speakers of Japanese L2, were expected to be formal (i.e., unlike a casual
setting, to try not to deleted particles, as it would go against the target language
norm).
3. In Chapter 5, Russell reports that his subjects who had acquired high levels of lexical
proficiency in Japanese in an informal and intensiveL2 environment showed little
attrition in lexical items, probably because they had learned a much larger vocabulary
than would have been learned in a classroom.
This page intentionally left blank
References
Aitchison, J. (1987). Words in the mind: An introduction to the mental lexicon.
New York: Basil Blackwell.
American Council on the Teaching of Foreign languages (ACTFL). (1986). Pro-
ficiency guidelines.
Anderson J. R. (1983). The architecture of cognition. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.
Andersen, R. (1982). Determining the linguistic attributes of language attrition.
In Lambert & Freed (Eds.), 1982:83-118.
. (Ed.) (1983). Pidginization and creolization as language acquisition.
Rowley, MA: NewburyHouse.
Au, S. Y. (1988). A critical appraisal of Gardner's social-psychological theory of
second-language (12) learning. Language Learning 38:75-100.
Bachman, L. F. & S. J. Savignon. 1986. The evaluation of communicative lan-
guage proficiency: A critique of the ACTFL Oral Interview. The Modern Lan-
guage Journal 70:380-390.
Bahrick H. (1984a). Fifty years of second language attrition: Implications for
programmatic research. Modern Language Journal 68:105-11.
Bardovi-Harlig. (1987). Markedness and salience in second language acquisi-
tion. Language Learning 37:385-407.
(Eds.). (1988). Youcan take it with you: Helping students maintainforeign lan-
guage skills beyond the classroom. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall Regents.
Berman, R. A., & Olshtain, E. (1983). Feature of first language transfer in sec-
ond language attrition.Applied Linguistics 4(3):222-234.
Blum-Kulka, S., & Levensen, E. (1983). Universals of lexical simplification.In
Faerch and Kasper (Eds.), 1983:119-139.
201
202 References
. (1984b). Semantic memory in permastore: Fifty years of memory for
Spanish learned in school. Journal of Experimental Psychology: General,
113, 1, 1-26.
Britsch, R. L. (1992). The blossoming of the Church in Japan. Ensign 22:32-38.
Brown, C., & Graham, C. R. (1991). Second language vocabulary acquisition and
attrition. Paper presented at annual TESOL convention,New York, March.
Brown, G. (1977). Listening to spoken English. London: Longman.
. (1989) A practical guide to language learning: Fifteen-week program
of strategies for success. New York:McGraw-Hill.
-. (1991). Breaking the language barrier: Creating your own pathway to
success. Yarmouth, ME: InterculturalPress.
Burling, R. (1978). Language development of a Garo- and English-speaking
child. In E. Hatch (Ed.), Second language acquisition (pp. 54-75). Rowley,
MA: Newbury House.
Chapelle, C. A. (1994). Are C-tests valid measure for L2 vocabulary research?
Second Language Research 10(2):157-187.
Clancy, P. (1982). Referential strategies in the narratives of Japanese children.
Paper presented at annual Boston University Conference on Language Devel-
opment (ED 227 720).
. (1985). The acquisition of Japanese. In D. Slobin (Ed.), The crosslin-
guistic study of language acquisition (Vol. 1, pp. 373-524). Hillsdale, NJ:
Lawrence Erlbaum.
Clark, J., & Jorden D. (1984). A study of language attrition in former U.S. stu-
dents of Japanese. Final project report. Washington,D.C.: Center for Applied
Linguistics (ED243 317).
Clark, J. L. D. & J. Lett. (1988). A research agenda. In P. Lowe, Jr. and C. W.
Stansfield (Eds.), Second language proficiency assessment: Current issues.
CAL/ERIC language in education: Theory and practice 70. Englewood
Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.
. (1975). Forgetting a foreign language.Language Learning 25:127-138.
. (1986). Forgetting a foreign language vocabulary.In Weltens, de Bot &
van Els (Eds.), 1986:143-158.
. (1989). Attrition in the productivelexicon of two Portuguese third lan-
guage speakers. Studies in Second Language Acquisition 11:135-149.
Corder, S. P. (1981). Error analysis and interlanguage. Oxford: Oxford Univer-
sity Press.
Cowan, J. R. (1986). Toward a psychological theory of interference in second
language learning, in B. W. Robinett and J. Schachter (Eds.), Second lan-
guage learning. Ann Arbor: Universityof Michigan Press.
Crystal, D. (1993). The Cambridge encyclopedia of language. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Dandoloni, P. & G. Henning. 1990. An investigationof the construct validity of
the ACTFL proficiency guidelines and oral interviewprocedure. Foreign lan-
guage Annals 23:11-22.
de Bot, K., & Clyne,M. (1989). Language reversionrevisited.Studies in Second
Language Acquisition 11:167-177'.
de Bot, K., & Weltens, B. (1991). Recapitulation, regression, and language loss.
In Seliger & Vago (Eds.), 1991:31-52.
. (1995). Foreign language attrition. Annual Review of Applied Linguis-
tics (Cambridge University Press: Cambridge) 15:151-164.
Dechert, H. W., & Raupach, M. (1980). Temporal variables in speech: Studies in
honor of Frieda Goldman-Eisler. The Hague: Mouton Publishers.
Dickinson, L. (1992). Learner trainingfor language learning. Dublin: Authentic
Language Learning Resources.
Doctrine and covenants. (1973). Salt Lake City: Deseret Book.
Dorian, N. C. (1981). Language death: The life cycle of a Scottish Gaelic
dialect. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press.
. (Ed.). (1989). Investigating obsolescence: Studies in language contrac-
tion and death. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Eastman, Carol M. (Ed.). (1992). Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural
Development 13(1-2) (special issue oncodeswitching).
Eckman, F. R. (1977). Markedness and the contrastive analysis hypothesis. Lan-
guage Learning 27(2):315-330.
Edwards, G. (1976). Second language retention in the Canadian Public Service.
Canadian Modern Language Review 32:305-308.
. (1977). Second language retention in the public service of Canada.
Ottawa: Public Service Commission of Canada.
Ellis, G., & Sinclair, B. (1989). Learning to learn English: A course in learner
training. Glasgow: Cambridge University Press.
Ellis, R. (1987). Intelanguage variability in language discourse: Style shifting
in the use of past tense. Studies in Second Language Acquisition 9:1-20.
. (1994). The study of second language acquisition. Oxford: Oxford Uni-
versity Press.
Ervin-Tripp, S. (1974). Is second language learning like the first? TESOL Quar-
terly 8:111-127.
Faerch, C., & Kasper, G. (1983). Strategies in interlanguage communication.
New York: Longman.
Fase, F., Jaspaert, K., & Kroon, S. (Eds.). (1992). Maintenance and loss of
minority languages. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Fishman, J. (1964). Language maintenance and language shift as a field of
inquiry: A definition of the field and suggestions for its further development.
Linguistics 9:32-70.
Fotos, S. (Eds.). (1996) Technology and language teaching. Tokyo: Lotus Inter-
national.
Francis, W. N., & Kucera, H. (1982). Frequency analysis of English usage: Lex-
icon and grammar. Boston: Houghton Mifflin.
Gal, S. (1979). Language shift: Social determinants of linguistics change in
bilingual Austria. New York: Academic Press.
. (1988). The socio-educational model of second-language learning:
Assumptions, findings, and issues. Language Learning 38:101-126.
Gardner, R. C., Clement, R., Smythe, P. C. & Smythe, C. L. (1979). The atti-
tude/motivation test batteryrevised manual. (Research Bulletin No. 15.
203
References
204 References
London, Ontario: University of Western Ontario, Language Research
Group.
Gardner, R. C., Lalonde, R. N., & MacPherson, J. 91985). Social factors in sec-
ond language attrition. Language Learning 35:519-540.
Gardner, R. C., Lalonde, R. N., Moorcroft, R., & Evers, F. T. (1987). Second
language attrition: The role of motivation and use. Journal of Language and
Social Psychology 6:29-47.
Gardner, R., & Lambert, W. E. (1959). Motivational variables in second lan-
guage acquisition. Canadian Journal of Psychology 13:266-272.
. (1972). Attitudes and motivation in second language learning. Rowley,
MA: Newbury House.
Gardner, R. C., & Maclntyre, P. D. (1991). An instrumental motivation in lan-
guage study: Who says it isn't effective? Studies in Second Language Acqui-
sition 13:57-72.
Gass, S. & Lakshmanan, L. (1991). Accounting for interlanguage subject pro-
nouns. Second Language Research 7:181-203.
Gass, S., & Selinker, L. (Eds.). (1992). Language transfer in language learning.
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Godsall-Myers, J. (1981). The attrition of language skills in German classroom
bilinguals; A case study. Ph.D. diss., Bryn Mawr College. Dissertation
Abstracts International, 43,57A.
Gonzo, S., & Saltarelli, M. (1983). Pidginization and linguistics change in emi-
grant languages. In R. Andersen (Ed.) 1983:181-197.
Graham, C. R. (1990). What is lost and why: A study of language attrition
among fluent adult speakers of Spanish as a second language, paper pre-
sented at Deseret Language and Linguistics Symposium, Brigham Young
University Provo, Utah, February.
Grendel, M. (1993). Verlies en herstel van lexicale kennis [The attrition and
maintenance of lexical knowledge]. Ph.D. diss., University of Nijmegan, the
Netherlands.
Grendel, M., de Bot K., & Weltens, B. (1995). Paper presented at AAAL con-
vention. Long Beach, California.
Grenoble, L. & Whaley, L. J. (1998). Toward a typology of language endanger-
ment. In Grenoble & L. J. Whaley (Eds.) 1998:22-54.
Grenoble, L. & Whaley, L. (Eds.). (1998). Endangered languages. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Hakuta, K., & d'Andrea, D. (1992). Some properties of bilingual maintenance
and loss in Mexican-background high school students. Applied Linguistics
23:72-99.
Hansen, L. (1980). Learning and forgetting a second language: The acquisition,
loss, and reacquisition of Hindi-Urdu negative structures by English-speak-
ing children. Ph.D diss., University of California, Berkeley. Dissertation
Abstracts International, 42,193A.
 . (1983). The acquisition and forgetting of Hindi-Urdu negation by
English-speaking children. In K. M. Bailey, M. H. Long, & S. Peck (Eds.), Sec-
ond language acquisition studies (pp. 93-103). Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
References 205
. (1996). Fitting the pieces together: Attrition curves in the longterm
attrition of a second language. Paper presented at the AILA Eleventh World
Congress of Applied Linguistics, Jyvaskyla, Finland. In Conference
Abstracts, 48.
 (in press). Language attrition in contexts of Japanese bilingualism. In M.
Noguchi & S. Fotos (Eds.), Studies in Japanese bilingualism. London: Multi-
lingual Matters.
. (in preparation). The learning and loss of Japanese as a second lan-
guage.
Hansen, L., & Chantrill, C-F. (1999). Literacy as a second language anchor: evi-
dence from L2 Japanese and L2 Chinese. In P. Robinson (Ed.), Representa-
tion and process: Proceedings of the 3rd PacSLRF. Tokyo: Aoyama Gakuin
University.
Hansen, L., & Chen, Y. L. (1999). The acquisition and attrition of numeral clas-
sifiers: What counts in Japanese and Chinese. Paper presented at AAAL Con-
vention, Stamford, CT.
Hansen, L., Gardner, J., & Pollard J. (1998). The measurement of fluency in a
second language: Evidence from the acquisition and attrition of Japanese. In
B. Visgatis (Ed.), On JALT '97: Trends & transitions (pp. 37-46). Tokyo:
Japan Association of Language Teachers (JALT).
Hansen, L., & Newbold, J. (in press). Literacy as an anchor of the spoken lan-
guage: Evidence from adult attriters of L2 Japanese. In P. Robinson, S. Ross,
& M. Sawyers (Eds.), Second language acquisition research in Japan.
Tokyo: Japanese Association of Language Teachers (JALT).
Hansen-Strain, L. (1990). The attrition of Japanese by English-speaking chil-
dren: An interim report. Language Sciences 12(4):367-377.
. (1992). Language loss over a break in instruction: Negation in the L2
Japanese of American high school students.In Proceedings of thefourth con-
ference on second language research in Japan (pp. 123-134). Niigata: Inter-
national University of Japan.
-. (1993). The attrition of Japanese negation by English-speaking adults.
Paper presented at AILA Tenth World Congress of Applied Linguistics, Ams-
terdam. In Conference Abstracts, 114.
Hansen-Strain, L., & Iwata Y. (1992). The loss of Japanese negation by English-
speaking children. Paper presented at annual TESOL convention,Vancouver.
Harrington, M. 1986. The T-unit as a measure of JSL oral proficiency.Bulletin of
the ICU Summer Institute in Linguistics 19:49-56.
Hedgcock, J. (1991). Foreign language retention and attrition:A study of regres-
sion models. Foreign Language Annals 2491):43-53.
Heller, M. (Ed.) (1988). Codeswitching. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Hill, J. H., & Hill, K. C. (1986). Speaking Mexicano. Tucson: University of Ari-
zona Press.
Huebner, T. (1983). The acquisition of English. Ann Arbor, MI: Karoma Publishers.
Hunt, K. W. (1965). Grammatical structures written at three grade levels.
NCTE Research Report No. 3. Champaign, IL: National Council of Teachers
of English.
206 References
Hyltenstam, K. & Viberg, A. (Eds.). (1993). Progression and regression in lan-
guage: Sociocultural, neuropsychological, and linguistic perspectives. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
Ishiguro, T. (1994). Two suggested threshold levels in L1 and L2 attrition pro-
cesses. Studies in Humanities (Kanagawa University,Tokyo) 12.
Jacobs, B., & Schumann, J. (1992). Applied linguistics, language acquisition,
and the neurosciences: Towards a more integrative perspective. Applied Lin-
guistics 13(3):282-301.
Jakobson, R. (1941). Kindersprache, aphasie und allgemeine Lautgesetze.
English trans.: Child language, aphasia, and phonological unversals. The
Hague: Mouton Publishers, 1972.
Jordens, P., de Bot, K., & Trapman, H. (1980). Linguistic aspects of regression in
German case marking. Studies in Second Language Acquisition 11:179-204.
Kanagy, R. (1991). Developmental sequences in the acquisition of Japanese as a
foreign language: The case of negation. Ph.D. diss., University of Pennsylva-
nia, Philadelphia.
. (1994). Developmental sequences in learning Japanese: A look at nega-
tion. Issues in Applied Linguistics 5:(2):255-277.
Katanuma, S. (1973). The church in Japan. Brigham Young University Studies
14:16-28.
Kaufman, D. & Aronoff, M. (1991). Morphological disintegration and recon-
struction in first language attrition. In Seliger & Vago (Eds.), 1991:175-188.
Kellerman, E. (1983). Now you see it, now you don't. In Gass & Selinker (Eds.)
1992:112-134.
Kennedy, L. R. (1932). The retention of certain Latin syntactical principles by
first-and second-year Latin students after various time intervals. Journal of
Education Psychology 23:132-146.
Kenny, K. D. (1996). Language loss and the crisis of cognition. Berlin: Mouton
de Gruyter.
Kobayashi, T. (1983). Ibunk ni sodatsu kodomotachi [Children brought up in a
different culture]. Tokyo: Yuhikaku.
Koike, I. (1990). How the Japanese children lose English as a second language.
Paper presented at the AILA World Congress of Applied Linguistics. Thessa-
loniki (in Conference Abstracts Vol. 1,8).
Krashen, S. (1981). Second language acquisition and second language learning.
Oxford: Pergamon Press.
Kroll, J. F., & Stewart, E. (1993). Category interference in translation and pic-
ture naming: Evidence for asymmetric connections between bilingual mem-
ory representations. Journal of Memory and Language 33:149-174.
Kuhberg, H. (1992). LongitudinalL2-attrition versus L2-acquisition, in three Turk-
ish children: Empirical findings. Second Language Research 892:138-154.
Kulick, D. (1992). Language shift and cultural reproduction. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Kuwahara, K. (1995). Shokyuu Nihongo gakushuusha ni yoru asobikotoba shiyoo
no juudanteki kansatsu [Longitudinal observation of the use of filler words by
beginning Japanese learners]. Master's thesis, Ochanomizu University, Tokyo.
Lambert, R. D., & Freed, B. F. (Eds.). (1982). The loss of language skills. Row-
ley, MA: Newbury House.
Lantolf, J. P. & B. F. Frawley. 1985. Oral-proficiency testing: A critical analysis.
The Modern Language Journal 69:337-345.
Larsen-Freeman, D. (1976). An explanation for the morpheme acquisition order
of second language learners. Language Learning 26:125-134.
. (1983). The importance of input in second language acquisition. In R.
Andersen (Ed.), Pidginization and creolization as language acquisition.
Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Larsen-Freeman, D., & Long, M. H. (1991). An introduction to second language
acquisition research. New York: Longman.
. (1991). The development of L2 lexis in the expression of the advanced
learner. Modern Language Journal 75(4):440-448.
Laufer, B., & Nation, P. (1995). Vocabulary size and use: Lexical richness in L2
written production. Applied Linguistics 16(3)307-322.
Lennon, P. (1989). Introspection and intentionality in advanced second-language
acquisition. Language Learning 39:375-396.
. (1990). Investigating fluency in EFL: A quantitativeapproach. Lan-
guage Learning 40:387-417.
LeSieg, T. (1974). Wacky Wednesday. New York: Random house.
Levelt, W. J. M. (1989). Speaking: From intention to articulation. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Lightbown, P. (1980). The acquisition and use of questions by French L2 learn-
ers. In S. Felix (Ed.), Second language development: Trends and issues.
Tubingen: Gunter Narr.
Loftus, G. & Loftus, E. (1976).. The human memory: The processing of informa-
tion. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
McDonough, S. H. (1995). Strategy and skill in learning aforeign language.
London: Edward Arnold.
McGloin, N. H. (1986). Negation in Japanese. Edmonton,Alberta: Borea Schol-
arly Publishers.
McMahon, N. (1946). The effects of summer vacation on retention of Latin
vocabulary. Master's thesis, Fordham University, New York.
MacWhinney, B. (1991). The CHILDES project: Tools for analyzing talk. Hove
and London: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Mauerman, P. (1985). Language attrition in French-speaking missionaries. Mas-
ter's thesis. Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah.
Mayer, M. (1967). A boy, a dog, and afrog. New York: Dial Books.
. (1969). Frog, where are you? New York: Dial Books.
. (1971). A boy, a dog, afrog, and afriend. New York: Dial Books.
Messelink, J., & Verkuylen, H.(1984). Het verlies van woordenkennis van het
Frans. [The attrition of French vocabulary] Master's thesis, University of
Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
Minoura, Y. (1981). Amerika bunka to no sesshoku ga nihonjin no katei seikatsu
to kodomo no shakaika katei ni oyobosu eikyoo [The effect of contact with
American cultureon Japanese families and the socialization process of their
Refrences 207
208 References
children]. Kaigai no nihonjin to sono kodomotachi. Report based on a
research granted by Toyota corporation.
Mombushoo (Japanese Ministry of Education). Heisi 5/1, 6/1. (1993, 1994).
Kaigai shijo kyooiku no genjoo. [The current situation of education for over-
seas children]. Tokyo: Mombushoo Kyooiku Josei Kyooiku Zaimuka Kaigai
Shijo Kyooikushitsu.
Moorcroft, R., & Gardner, R. C. (1987). Linguistic factors in second-language
loss. Language Learning 37(3):327-340.
Myers-Scotton, C. (1993). Duelling languages: Grammatical structures in
codeswitching. Oxford: Clarendon.
Nakazawa, Y. (1989a). Kikoku shijo no gaikokugo shori katei to sono sokutei
hoshoo ni tsuite [On the foreign language processing of returnees and its
measurement]. In kikoku shijo no gaikokugo hoji ni kansuru choosa kenkyuu
hookokusho [A survey on the foreign language retention of returnees] (pp.
820-822). Vol. 1. Tokyo: Kaigai Shijo Kyooiku Shinkoo Zaidan.
. (1989b). In Kikoku shijo no nihon kokokugo no gaigokugo iji teido o
ketteisuru yooin ni tsuite no choosa [A report on the factors that determine
foreign language retention of returnees after returning to Japan]. In Kikoku
shijo no gaikokugo hoji ni kansuru choosa kenkyu hookokusho [A survey on
the foreign language retention of returness] (pp. 29-59). Vol. 1. Tokyo:
Kaigai Shijo Kyooiku Shinkoo Zaidan.
Nakazawa, Y., & Yoshitomi, A. (1990). Kikoku shijo no gaikokugo shori katei to
sono sokute hoohoo ni tsuite 2 [On the foreign language processing of
returnees and its measurement 2]. In Kikoku shijo no gaikokugo hoji ni
kansuru choosa kenkyuu hookokusho [A survey on the foreign language
retention of returnees]. Vol 2. Tokyo: Kaigai Shijo Kyooiku Shinkoo Zaidan.
Nan'yoo Cho. (1926). Nan'yoo gunto kokugo tokuhon kyoojusho [Instructional
Japanese reader for the South Pacific area]. Tokyo: Nan'yoo Cho.
. (1937). Kogakkoo honka kokugo tokuhon [Japanese reader for main-
stream public schools]. 5 Vols. Tokyo: Nan'yoo Cho.
National Foreign Language Center. 1993. A framework for introductory Japanese lan-
guage curricula in American high schools and colleges. Washington, D.C.:NFLC.
Neisser, U. (1984). Interpreting Harry Bahrick's discovery: What confers immunity
against forgetting? Journal of Experimental Psychology (General) 113:32-35.
O'Connell, D. (1988). Critical essays on language use and psychology. New
York: Springer-Verlag.
Odlin, T. (1989). Language transfer. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Oishi, H. (1986). Scope of interpretation of negation in Japanese. Ph.D. diss.,
University of Michigan.
Olshtain, E. (1986). The attrition of English as a second language with speakers
of Hebrew. In Weltens, de Bot, & van Els (Eds). 1986:187-204.
. (1989). Is second language attrition the reversal of second language
acquisition? Studies in Second Language Acquisition 11:151-165.
-. (1994). Metalinguistic accessibility as an indication of adult primary
language attrition. Paper presented at AAAL annual conference, Baltimore,
Maryland.
References 209
Olshtain, E., & Barzelay, M. (1991). Lexical retrieval difficulties in adult lan-
guage attrition. In Seliger& Vago (Eds.). 1991:139-150.
O'Malley, J. M., & Chamot, A. U. (1990). Learning strategies in second lan-
guage acquisition. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Otto, F. (1988). Using the computer. In Berko Gleason (Ed.) 1988:73:92.
Oxford, R. (1990). Language learning strategies: What every teacher should
know. Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Pauwels, A. (1986). Immigrant dialects and language maintenance in Australia.
Dordrecht, The Netherlands: Foris Publications.
Peattie, M. (1988). Nan'yo: The rise and fall of the Japanese in Micronesia,
1885/1945. Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press.
Pica, T. (1983). Methods of morpheme quantification. Studies in Second Lan-
guage Acquisition 6:69-78.
. (1985). The selective impact of instruction on second languageacquisi-
tion. Applied Linguistics 6:214-222.
Pica, T. & C. Doughty. 1985. Input and interaction in the communicativelan-
guage classroom. A comparison of teacher-fronted and group activities. In S.
Gass and C. Madden (Eds.), Input in second language acquisition. Rowley,
MA: Newbury House.
Pienemann, M., & Johnston, M. (1987). Factors influencing the development of
language proficiency.In D. Nunan (Ed.), Applying second language acquisi-
tion research (pp. 45-141). Adelaide, Australia: National Curriculum
Resource Center, Adult Migrant Education Program.
Pienemann, M., Johnston, M., & Brindley, G. (1988). Constructing an acquisi-
tion-based procedure for second language assessment. Studies in Second Lan-
guage Acquisition 10(2):217-243.
Richards, J., Platt, J., & Weber, H. (1987). Longman dictionary of applied lin-
guistics. Essex, England:Longman.
Rickford, J. R. (1991). Variation theory: Implicational scaling and critical age
limits in models of linguistic variation,acquisitionand change. In T.Huebner
& C. A. Ferguson (Eds.) Crosscurrents in second language acquisition and
linguistic theories. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Riggenbach, H. (1991). Towards an understanding of fluency: a microanalysisof
nonnative speaker conversation. Discourse Processes 14:423-441.
Ringbom, H. (1987). The role of the first language inforeign language learning.
Clevedon, U.K.: MultilingualMatters.
Rosengren, I. (1972). Ein frequenzworterbuch der deutschen Zeitungsprache.
Lund, Sweden: CWK Gleerup.
Rubin, J., & Thompson, I. (1994). How to be a more successful language
learner, 2nd ed. Boston: Heinle & Heinle.
Russell, R. (1996). Pause and repair behavior in L2 Japanese attrition.Paper presented
at AILA Eleventh World Congress ofApplied Linguistics,Jyvaskyla,Finland.
Sanchez, P. C. (1984). Guam 1941-1945: Wartime occupation and liberation.
Guam: P. C. Sanchez Publishing.
Santos, T. (1989). Replication in applied linguistics research. TESOL Quarterly
23(4):699-701.
210 References
Scherer, G. A. C. (1957). The forgetting rate of learning German. German Quar-
terly 30:275-277.
Schmidt, A. (1985). Young people's Dyirbal: An example of language death from
Australia. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Schumann, J. (1990). Extending the scope of the acculturation/pidginzation model
to include cognition. Paper presented at colloquium on the scope and form of a
theory of second language learning, TESOL convention, San Francisco.
Schuman, J., Van, C., & Weltens, B. (1985). Vocabulairekennis in de vreemde
taal na beedindiging van het onderwijs. Toegepaste Taalwetenschap in
Artikelen 23:81-89.
Scott, M. S. & G. R. Tucker. (1974). Error analysis and Englis nguage strate-
gies of Arab students. Language Learning 24:69-99.
Seliger, H. W., & Vago, R. M. (Eds.). (1991). First language attrition. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
Seya, H. (1990). Kikoku shijo no eigo shiin no onchikaku to goi sutorateji no
shiyoo [The perception of English consonants and use of lexical strategies by
returnees]. In Kokoku shijo no gaikokugo hoji ni kansuru choosa kenkyuu
hookokusho [A survey on the foreign language retention of returnees] (pp.
29_45) Vol. 2. Tokyo: Kaigai Shijo Kyooiku Shinkoo Zaidan.
Sharwood-Smith, M. (1983). On first language loss in the second language
acquirer: Problems of transfer. In Gass and Selinker (Eds.) 1992:222-231.
Shibatani, M. (1990). The languages of Japan. Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
Shuster, D. (1979). Schooling in Micronesia during Japanese mandate rule. Edu-
cational Perspectives 18(2)20-26.
Slobin, D. I. (1977). Language change in childhood and in history. In J. Macna-
mara (Ed.) Language learning and thought. New York: Academic Press.
. (1989). Frog story procedures. Unpublished procedures manual,
Department of Psychology, Universityof California, Berkeley.
. (1990). Learning to think for speaking: Native language, cognition, and
rhetorical style. Plenary address at International Pragmatics Conference,
Barcelona, July.
Snow, M., Padilla, A., & Campbell, R. (1984). Factors influencing language
retention of graduates of a Spanish immersion program. Los Alamitos, CA:
National Center for Bilingual Research.
Swain, M. (1998). The output hypothesis and beyond. Paper presented at the
Twenty-third annual congress of the Applied Linguistics Association of Aus-
tralia. Brisbane.
Swain, M. (1985). Communicative competence: Some roles of comprehensible
input and comprehensible output in its development. In S. Gass & C. Madden
(Eds.), Input in second language acquisition (pp. 235-253) Rowley, MA:
Newbury House.
. (1995). Three functions of output in second language learning. In G.
Cook & B. Seidlhofer (Eds.), Principle and practice in applied linguistics:
Studies in honor of H. G. Widdowson (pp. 125-144). Oxford: Oxford Univer-
sity Press.
h la
References 211
Takagi & Maclntyre, W. (1996). Nihon matsu jitsu seito-shi, 1850-1980-nen [A
history of the Latter-day Saints in Japan, 1850-1980]. Kobe: Beehive Shuppen.
Tamaru, Y., K. Yoshioka & S. Kimura. 1993. Gakusyuusya no hatuwa ni
mirareru bun koozoo no tyookiteki kansatu (A longitudinal development of
sentence structure: A study of JSL adult learners). Nihongo Kyooiku (Journal
of Japanese Language Teaching, 81:43-54.
Tarone, E. (1980). Communication strategies, foreign talk, and repair in inter-
language. Language Learning 30:417-431.
Tomiyama, M. (1994). Longitudinal second language attrition: Case studies of
Japanese returnees. Paper presented at annual TESOL Convention, Balti-
more, Maryland.
. (1995). A longitudinal study of natural second language attrition. Paper
presented at annual TESOL convention, Long Beach, California.
-. (1996). A process of L2 attrition: A four-year case study of a Japanese
returnee. Paper presented at AILA Eleventh World Congress of Applied Lin-
guistics, Jyvaskyla, Finland.
. (1998). The later stages of natural 12attrition. Paper presented at the
Third Pacific Second Language Research Forum. Tokyo.
Turian D., & Altenberg, E. P. (1991). Compensatory strategies of child first lan-
guage attrition.In Seliger & Vago (Eds.) 1991:207-226.
van Els, T., de Bot, K., & Weltens, B. (1983). Language attrition research: A
European perspective. Paper presented at Meeting on Foreign Language and
International Studies, Princeton, New Jersey, October 11-15.
Vechter A., Lapkin A. & Argue, V. (1990). Second language retention: A sum-
mary of the issues. The Canadian Modern Language Review 46(2): 189-203.
Waas, M. (1996). Language attrition downunder: German speakers in Aus-
tralia. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Weltens, B. (1987). The attrition of foreign language skills: A literature review.
Applied Linguistics 8(1)22-38.
. (1989). The attrition of French as aforeign language. Dordrecht, the
Netherlands: Foris Publications.
Weltens, B. & Cohen, A. (1989). Language attrition research: An introduction.
SSLA 11:127-133.
Weltens, B., de Bot, K. & van Els, T. (Eds.). (1986). Language attrition in
progress. Dordrecht, the Netherlands: Foris Publications.
Weltens, B., & Grendel, M. (1993). Attrition of vocabulary knowledge. Studies
in Bilingualism (Katholieke Universiteit, Nijmegan, the Netherlands) 6.
[Also in R. Schreuder & B. Weltens (Eds.), The bilingual lexicon (pp.
185-201). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Weltens, B., & van Els, T. (1986). The attrition of French as a foreign language:
Interim results. In Weltens, de Bot, & van Els (Eds.) 1986:205-221.
Weltens, B., van Els, T., & Schils, E. (1989). The long-term retention of French
by Dutch students. Studies in Second Language Acquisition 11(2):205-216.
Wode, H. (1978). Developmental sequences in naturalisticL2 acquisition. In E.
Hatch (Ed.), Second language acquisition (pp. 101-117). Rowley, MA: New-
bury House.
212 References
Wong Fillmore, L. (1976). The second time around: Cognitive and social strate-
gies in second language acquisition. Ph.D. diss., Stanford University, Stan-
ford, California.
. (1991). Second language learning in children: A model of language
learning in social context. In E. Bialystock (Ed.), Language processing in
bilingual children (pp. 49-69). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Woolard, K. (1989). Double talk: Bilingualism and the politics of ethnicity in
Catalonia. Palo Alto, California: Stanford University Press.
WordCruncher, Version 4.21. (1988). Provo, Utah: Electronic Text Corporation.
Yanaihara, T. (1963a). Nan'yoo guntoo no kenkyuu [South Sea Islands
research]. In T. Yanaihara (Ed.), Zenshuu Dai-san-kan [Collected works, Vol.
3] (pp. 1-458). Tokyo: Iwanami Shoten.
. (1963b). Nan'yoo guntoomin no kyooiku ni tsuite [Concerning the edu-
cation of the South Sea Islands people]. In T. Yanaihara (Ed.), Zenshuu Dai-
go-kan [Collected works, Vol. 5] (pp. 183-200). Tokyo: Iwanami Shoten.
Yashiro, K. (1991). Bilingualism of Japanese returnees. Presentation at JALT
(Japanese Association of Language Teachers) conference, Kobe, Japan.
Yoshida, K., & Arai, K. (1990). Kikoku shijo no gaikokugo risuningunooryoku
no hoji ni kansuru koosatsu [On the retention of listening skills of returnees].
In Kikoku shijo no gaikokugo hoji ni kansuru choosa kenkyuu hookokusho [A
survey on the foreign language retention of returnees] (pp. 9-28). Vol. 2.
Tokyo: Kaigai Shijo Kyooiku Shinkoo Zaiden.
Yoshida, K., Arai, K., Fujita, T., Hattori, M., Nagano, K, Okamura, A., Tanaka,
M., Yanaura, K., & Yoshhitomi,A. (1989). Kikoku shijo no gaikokugo hoji ni
kansuru ichi choosa [A consideration on the retention of a foreign language
by returnees]. In Kikoku shijo no gaikokugo hoji ni kansuru choosa kenkyuu
hookokusho [A survey on the foreign language retention of returnees] (pp.
12-28). Vol. 1.Tokyo: Kaigai Shijo Kyooiku Shinkoo Zaidan.
Yoshitomi, A. (1992). Towards a model of language attrition: Neurobiological
and psychological contributions.Issues in Applied Linguistics 3(2):293-318.
. (1994). The attrition of English as a second language of Japanese
returnee children. Ph.D. diss., Universityof California, Los Angeles.
Yukawa, E. (1996). L1 Japanese attrition: Three case studies of two early bilin-
gual children. Stockholm: Centre for Research on Bilingualism, Stockholm
University.
Zobl, H. (1980). The formal and developmental selectivity of L1 influence on
L2 acquisition. Language Learning 30(1):4357.
Index
ACTFL, scale. See American Council on
the Teaching of Foreign Languages
scale
adjective negation,.143-45, 148-50,157,
160-64
adults
age as language attrition factor, 5-6, 7,
15
fluency changes, 173,177-78, 182-84,
189
lexical maintenance and attrition,
114-28
negation attrition, 142-52
proficiency level as language attrition
factor, 116-17, 127, 172, 173,
178-79, 188
replication of negation research, 154-66
residence length as language attrition
factor, 151,152, 157
second-language speaking skills,
117-18, 172-98
sentence-structure complexity, 173,176
77, 180-82, 189
targetlike usage, 176, 179-80, 189
university student language loss, 69-91
affective variables , 77, 165-66
attitude, 8, 171-74, 185-89
motivation, 8, 13, 171-74, 185-89,
191
age
as attrition variable, 5-6, 7, 11, 14,15
See also adults; returnee children
Altenberg, E. P., 59, 76
American Council on the Teaching of
Foreign Languages scale, 13, 173,
174-75, 184, 190
analysis of variance, 121,159-60
Andersen, R., 75, 115
ANOVA. See analysis of variance
approximation, 66, 76, 87
Arai, K., 6, 24,25,41,42
Argue, V.,7
Aronoff, M, 59, 74, 75
attitude, 8, 171-74, 185-89
attrition, See language attrition specific
aspects
avoidance, 66, 73 , 76, 77, 87, 88, 127
Bahrick, H., 6, 7, 9, 14, 23, 41, 42, 75, 170
Barzilay, M., 114
Berman, R. A., 9, 10, 23, 26, 27, 42
bilingualism, 3, 18n.l
in Canada, 8, 170-71
social setting recreation and,23
Bilingual Syntax Measure, 62
Book, The, 27
Boy, A Dog, and a Frog (Mayer), 27, 28,
62
213
214 Index
Brown, C, 114, 117
BSM. See Bilingual Syntax Measure
CAL programs. See Computer Assisted
Learning programs
Canadian bilingualism, 8, 170-71
Carpentry Apprentice Training School
(Palau), 156
case studies
English language loss, 80-109
first-stagelanguage attrition, 59-78
Japanese language loss, 172-91
CHAT. See Codes for the Human Analysis
of Transcript children.See returnee
children
Chinese, 22, 118, 152
circumlocution, 87, 88
Clark, J., 8,170,175, 186, 191
classroom instruction, 13, 15-16,43,
187-88, 189,191
Clyne, M, 170
code mixing, 3
Codes for the Human Analysis of Tran-
script, 83
codeswitching, 3, 14, 24
by ESL children, 63-65, 72-73,76,77, 78
filler words and, 123,124-25, 126,127
loan words and,118,125,126
Cohen, A., 15
compensatory strategies, 86-89, 92
ESL children and, 66-67, 72-73, 76-77
filler word use,123, 124-25, 126, 127
loan word use,118,125, 126
See also specific strategies
comprehension
listening, 9, 14-15, 16,42,85
reading, 7, 9, 16
Comprehensive Language Evaluation, 82
Computer Assisted Learning programs, 17
Computerized LanguageAnalysis
programs, 83
computers, as language maintenance tool,
17,96
critical threshold hypothesis, 7-8, 12-13,
23, 170
ESL children and,23, 24, 40, 41-42
negation attrition and, 143, 151,
161-62
cross-sectional data,longitudinal
observation vs., 60
CYCLE. See Comprehensive Language
Evaluation
Dandonoli, P., 175
de Bot, K.,23, 116, 170
direct appeal strategy, 66, 76
Doughty, C., 178
Dutch language, 170
Dutch students, 6, 7-8, 114,115,170-71
education, second-language. See
instruction, second-language
Edwards, G., 8, 171
English as second language (ESL), 5, 6,
115,117,170
fluency changes, 24, 67-68, 76, 78, 88,
92
influence from replacing language, 9-12
Japanese returnees' first-stage attrition,
59-78
Japanese returnees' losses, 80-96
Japanese returnees' verb usage changes,
10, 11,21-43,86
proficiency level factor, 31, 41, 74-75,
77
See also returnee children
Fifty Years of Second Language Attrition
(Bahrick), 23
filler words, 123,124-25, 126,127
fluency
ESL, children's changes in, 24, 67-68,
76,78,88,92
of JSL speakers, 173,177-78, 182-84,
189
See also speaking skills
Foreign Service Institute scale, 8, 170
Francis, W. N., 121
French language, 6, 7-8, 114,115, 170-71
frequency order analysis, 123-24
Frog series (Mayer), 27, 28, 62
Frog, Where are You? (Mayer), 27, 28
FSI scale. See Foreign Service Institute
scale
functional reduction strategy. See
avoidance
Gardner, R., 8, 74, 170-71, 187
gender, as attritionvariable, 152
German language, 6, 7, 9, 115, 170
Index 215
Godsall-Myers, J., 7, 169-70
Gonzo, S., 115
Graham, C. R., 114, 115,117
grammar, 74, 94, 114
developmental stages in learning, 142
See also syntax; specific parts of speech
Grendel, ML, 114
Hansen, L., 6, 9, 16, 23, 157, 160
Hansen-Strain, L., 6, 23, 26, 27, 145
Harrington, M., 177
Hebrew language, 9-10
Henning, G., 175
Hindi Urdu, 5-6, 9
hiragana (writing system), 156,158
honka (education course), 155,158
hoshuuka (education course), 155-56,
158, 161,166
ILR scale, 175,190
immersion learning, 13, 15, 152,173
incubation period
for ESL children, 85-86, 87, 88, 90-91
for JSL adults, 116,151
individual differences in attrition, 72-73,
76-77
Indo-European languages, 115, 172
initial plateau, 6, 12, 75-76, 82,-94-95,
128
instruction, second-language, 15-16, 23
classroom teaching, 13, 15-16, 43,
187-88, 189, 191
computer-assisted learning, 17
course design and pedagogy, 42-43,
190-91
immersion learning, 13, 15, 152,173
intensive vs. nonintensive, 16, 191
maintenance of skills and,116-18,
126-28, 152,161, 166, 169-98
in Micronesia, 155-58, 161,166
instrumental motivation, 8, 13, 171, 173,
185-86
integrative motivation,8, 13, 171, 173,
185-86
interference theory of memory loss, 9-10
interlanguage, 176, 179,180, 181
interlinguistic skills, 9. See also
productive skills; receptive skills
intralinguistic skills, 9, 24. See also
specific skills
inverse hypothesis, 7, 41
Ishiguro, T., 143
Israeli children, 6, 12
Jakobson, R., 9, 142
Japanese as second language,5,6,12-13,16
adult negation attrition, 142-52
attrition in American university
students, 169-91
lexical maintenance and attrition,
114-28
in Micronesia, 15467
proficiency level factor, 116-17,127,
172, 173,178-79, 188
replication of negation research,
154-66
Japanese returnee children. See returnee
children
jokyoin (assistant teachers), 156,157,158
Jorden, D., 8, 170,186,191
Jordens, P., 23
JSL. See Japanese as second language
Kanagy, R., 144, 145,157,160
kanji (writing system), 158
katagana (writing system), 157,158
Kaufman, D., 59, 74, 75
Kennedy, L. R., 169
kikoku shijo. See returnee children
Kobayashi, Tetsuya, 21
koogakkoo (Micronesian schools),
155-58, 161
Korean, 9, 152
Kucera, H., 121
Kuhberg, E., 6, 9, 23-24, 59, 63-64,
74-75, 76, 77
Kuwahara, K., 124
Lalonde, R. N., 8
Lambert, W. E., 170-71
language acquisition, 24, 187
regression hypothesis and, 9, 24,
142-43, 144
language attrition, 3-13
age variable, 5-6, 7, 11, 14, 15
critical threshold, 7-8
differential attritionof subskills, 74-75
in ESL Japanese children returnees,
80-96
first stage of, 59-78
216 Index
language attrition (continued)
gender variable, 152
individual differences in, 72-73, 76-77
initial plateau, 6, 12, 75-76, 82, 94-95,
128
interference theory of memory loss,
9-10
JSL American university students,
169-91
negation and,12, 13, 31, 37-39, 143,
145-52, 154-67
processes involved, 8-10
replacing language influence on, 9-10, 75
research and application issues, 14-17,
23-24
retrieval failure theory, 10, 12
speed of, 75-76, 77
variables affecting, 5-8, 11,31,41,
72-73, 76-77, 88-89, 151,152, 157
See also incubation period; proficiency
level; regression hypothesis; syntax;
vocabulary maintenance and retrieval
language death, 3
language instruction. See instruction,
second-language
language loss, 3
language maintenance programs, 12,
16-17, 80, 95 96
language obsolescence, 3
language regression, 3
language retention
reading skills and, 16, 26, 42, 149,152
training in strategies for, 17
verb usage changes, 21-43
writing skills and, 9, 16, 123
language shift, 3
Lapkin, A., 7
Larsen-Freeman, D., 123,176-77
Latin language, 114,169
Laufer, B., 117, 120
League of Nations, 154,155
learning. See instruction, second-language;
language acquisition
Lennon, P., 177
LeSieg, T., 62
Lett, J., 175
lexical density, 28, 31, 116-117,122,
126, 127
lexical retrieval difficulty, 24, 65-66, 74,
78,87
lexicon. See vocabulary maintenance and
attrition
linguistic dynamism, 4, 13
linguistic markediness, 9
listening comprehension, 9,14-15,16,42,85
literacy testing, 26. See also reading skills;
writing skills
loan words, 118, 125,126
longitudinal studies, 59-78, 142,145
Maclntyre, P. D., 171, 187
MacPherson, J., 8
MacWhinney, B., 83
Mayer, M, 27,62
McMahon, N., 114
measurement methods, 15
longitudinal study, 59-78, 145
research and application issues, 14 17,
23-24
See also names of specific tests
memory loss, interference theory of, 9-10
Messelink, J., 114
Micronesia, 154-67
Ministry of Education (Japan), 22, 23, 155
mission schools, 156
missionary, 12, 115, 118, 145, 146-147,
150, 152,153,161,186,187
Moorcroft, R., 74
morphology, 9, 11, 24
ESL children's attrition of, 68-70, 74,
78
ESL children's verb usage, 30, 34-36,
42, 86
negation in Japanese, 143-44
mother tongue, 3, 7
motivation, 8, 13, 171-74, 185-89, 191
Nanyoo Kohatsu Company, 155
National Foreign Language Center, 191
negation, 12, 13
ESL children's verb usage, 31, 37-39
JSL attrition,142-52
Micronesian study of JSL attrition,
154-67
Neisser, U., 7, 151,170
Newbold,J., 16
nominal adjective negation, 144-45,
148-50, 157, 160-64
nontargetlike usage, by JSL speakers,173,
176, 177,179-81
Index 217
noun negation, 143, 144-45, 148, 150,
157, 160-64
NTL. See nontargetlike usage
obsolescence, language, 3
Olshtain, E., 6, 9, 10, 11, 23, 25, 26, 27,
42,76, 114, 154
Oral Proficiency Interview (OPI), 13,
174-75, 190
oscillograms, 178
paraphrase strategy, 66, 76, 87, 88
particle use, by JSL speakers, 176,
179-180, 189
pause, 79, 92, 125, 127,173,177, 178,
182-183, 195,196
Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test, 62, 63
permastore, 7
personality, as attrition variable, 77,
88-89
phenomena, 67-68
phonological skills, 24, 71-72, 74, 78,
85-86
Pica, T., 29, 178
Pienemann, M., 36
plateaus
initial, 6, 12, 75-76, 82, 94-95, 128
recall and recognition, 23
Ponapean, 5, 165-166
Portuguese, 6, 116, 126
PPVT. See Peabody Picture Vocabulary
Test
practice effect, 28, 82
productive skills
critical threshold theory and,143
of ESL children, 42, 75, 93-94
JSL adults' maintenance or loss of,
114-28
language instruction and, 16
regression hypothesis and, 9
research issues, 14-15,41
See also specific skills
proficiency level, as attrition variable, 6-8,
11, 123,143,169-70
critical threshold, 7-8
for ESL children,31,41,74-75,77
initial plateau, 6, 12, 75-76, 82, 94-95,
128
inverse hypothesis, 7, 41
for JSL speakers, 116-17, 127, 172,
173, 178-79, 188
research issues, 14, 162-63, 166
progressive retrieval strategy, 10, 87,
88
psycholinguistic markedness, 9
reading skills, language retention relation-
ship, 16,26,42, 149,152
receptive skills
critical threshold theory and,143
ESL children's changes in, 71, 74, 75,
78, 93-94
language instruction and, 16
regression hypothesis and, 9
research issues, 14-15
See also specific skills
recognition skills, 14-15, 41, 42
regression-hypothesis, 12
attrition data support for, 9, 12
ESL, children and, 23, 24, 93, 94
longitudinal study, 59-78, 142,145
negated structures attrition and,142-43,
144, 145, 148-50, 154-67
replacing language, 9-10, 75
residence length, as attrition variable
for ESL children, 11,31,41
for JSL speakers, 151,152, 157
residual learning, 7, 95
retention. See language retention
retrieval failure theory, 10, 12
returnee children, 6, 10-12
age as language attrition factor, 5-6, 11,
31,41,42
codeswitching, 63-65, 72-73, 76, 77
compensatory strategies, 66-67, 72-73,
76-77
critical threshold hypothesis, 7, 8,
12-13,23,170
English language losses, 80-96
English-speaking skills retention,
21-43
first-stagelanguage attrition, 59-78
fluency changes, 24, 67-68, 76, 78, 88,
92
incubation period, 85-86, 87, 88,
90-91
instructional method effects on, 15
language maintenance problems and
programs, 12, 16-17, 23, 80, 95-96
morphological attrition, 68-70, 74, 78
218 Index
returnee children (continued)
negation attrition, 145
phonological skills, 24, 71-72, 74, 78,
85-86
productive skills, 42, 75, 93-94
proficiency level as language attrition
factor, 31,41,7475,77
receptive skills changes, 71, 74, 75, 78,
93-94
regression hypothesis, 23, 24, 93, 94
residence length as language attrition
factor, 11,31,41
residual learning, 7, 95
targetlike usage, 29-33, 39-40
verb usage changes, 10, 11, 12, 21-43,
86
Riggenbach, H., 178
Rosengren, I., 121
Saltarelli, M., 115
Sanchez, P. C., 153
Santos, T., 154
Scheffe post hoc comparison, 121, 159-60
schema, 7
Schils, E., 114
Scott, M. S., 176
second languages
first stage attrition of, 59-78
instruction in. See instruction, second-
language
negation and,12, 13, 31, 37-39,
142-52, 154-67
relearning of, 24
residual learning, 7, 95
See also English as second language;
Japanese as second language;
language attrition; speaking skills;
other specific languages
sentence structure. See syntax
shuushikei, 12,37,42
Slobin, D. I., 28
SOC. See supplied in obligatory context
sociocultural research needs, 4
Spanish language, 6, 7, 115, 117
speaking skills, second language, 9, 15,
16,42,43
ESL children's fluency changes, 24,
67-68, 76, 78, 88, 92
ESL children's phonological
performance, 24, 71-72, 74, 78, 85-86
of JSL adults, 117-18, 172-98
See also fluency; pause phenomena
Spearman rank-order correlation, 121
speed, of language attrition, 75-76, 77
Stanford Achievement Test, 26
Storytelling 11, 14-15, 147
codeswitching in 64
fluency in 67-68
lexical attrition in 67
morpheme accuracy in, 70
verb usage in, 25,27-43
subsumption theory, 7
supplied in obligatory context, 29, 32-33,
84, 98-105,
syntax, 9, 11, 24
ESL children's language attrition and,
70-71,74,78,87
ESL children's verb usage, 31, 38,
39-40, 42
JSL speakers and,173,176-77, 180 82,
189
targetlike usage
by ESL children, 29-33, 39-40
by JSL speakers, 176,179-80, 189
tense, negation and, 161
TLU. See targetlike usage
Tomiyama, M., 14
tourist industry, Micronesian, 158
transfer strategy, 88
Trapman, H., 23
Tucker, G. R., 176
T-units, JSL speaker usage, 117, 122-23,
126, 128, 176-77, 180-82
Turian, D., 59, 76
type-token ratio
ESL, children's language loss and, 86
ESL children's verb usage, 28-29, 30,
31
Japanese language attrition and,
116-17,120,121-26
Urdu. SeeHindi-Urdu
van Els, T., 114, 116, 128,170
variance. See analysis of variance
Vechter, A., 7
verb usage
ESL, children's changes in, 10, 11,
21-43,86, 12
Index 219
verb usage (continued)
in negation, 143,144-45, 148-49, 150,
157, 160-64, 166
Verkuylen, H., 114
vocabulary maintenance and attrition, 9, 11
of ESL children, 30-32, 42, 65-67, 71,
74, 78, 86, 94
of JSL adult speakers, 114-28
loan words, 118,125,126
recognition skills, 7, 14
retrieval difficulty, 24, 65-66, 74, 78, 87
Wacky Wednesday (LeSieg), 62
Weltens, B., 6, 9, 14, 15, 41, 42, 74, 75,
114, 116,128,170,188
word coinage strategy, 87
WordCruncher (software), 120
words
filler words, 123,124-25, 126,127
loan words, 118,125,126
paraphrase strategy, 66, 76, 87, 88
See also vocabularymaintenance
and attrition
writing skills, language retention
relationship, 9, 16, 123
Yanaihara, T., 156
Yashiro, K., 23
Yoshida, K., 6, 9, 24, 25, 41, 42
Yoshitomi, A., 9, 23, 27, 59, 74
Yukawa, E., 6
