17
internalist content of words from creeping back in.8
This is why, in the next section,
I discuss Chomsky’s internalist approach to semantics and reference.9
2.2  Chomsky’s Internalism
Chomsky’s internalist pursuits have their basis in questions about the nature of the
Faculty of Language. Therefore, before discussing Chomsky’s internalist semantics
specifically, I will provide a brief overview of his view of the architecture of the
Faculty of Language. I will then discuss Chomsky’s views on conceptual content
and its relation to natural language semantics. Here I will also identify a significant
tension in Chomsky’s thinking – the tension between Chomsky’s view of linguistic
expressions as objects doubly grounded in phonological and semantic properties
(the double-interface view) and his individualistic approach to semantics. I will then
discuss how Chomsky’s double-interface view, but not his individualistic view of
natural language semantics, has influenced Relevance Theory (e.g. Sperber and
Wilson 1995, Carston 2002).
2.2.1  
Chomsky’s Faculty of Language
On Chomsky’s theory (e.g. 2000a; 2013; 2015), the Faculty of Language (hence-
forth FL) has two components: a cognitive system that stores information and per-
formance systems (articulatory-perceptual and conceptual-intentional) that make
use of this information for articulation, interpretation, expression of beliefs and
desires, talking about the world, etc. The cognitive system of FL is accessed by the
performance systems, but is distinct from them. The cognitive system of FL is mod-
ified in response to linguistic experience; it changes states, from ‘initial’, which is
innate and universal to human species, to ‘I-language’, which is internal (but not
innate) and individual.
8
 Of course, Fodor and Pylyshyn may respond by saying that they are not interested in words but
only in concepts, but if that’s the case they should stop saying that ‘reference is the only semantic
property of mental or linguistic representations’ (2015: 1) and that semantics for mental represen-
tations equals that of linguistic representations (2015: 128). Fodor’s theory is relevant to us insofar
as his lexical-conceptual isomorphism has been adopted in mainstream linguistics. More on that in
Chap. 3.
9
 
As mentioned at the outset of this chapter, the aim of providing a critical overview of Fodor’s
theory was to justify my adoption of internalism. But Fodor’s externalism is just one type of exter-
nalism (i.e. causal externalism). Another type is social externalism (e.g. Burge 1979, Putnam
1975), whose proponents also place themselves in opposition to internalism, and whose arguments
Chomsky (2000a) rejects. I do not discuss social externalism in this chapter but return to it in some
detail in Chap. 4, where I look at the relation between philosophical accounts of mental content
and the notion of linguistic semantics.
2.2 Chomsky’s Internalism
18
The initial state of FL includes general phonological and semantic principles,
and the mature state (i.e. I-language) is a generative procedure that ‘assigns struc-
tural descriptions to expressions and interacts with the motor and perceptual system
and other cognitive systems of the mind/brain to yield semantic and phonetic inter-
pretations of utterances’ (Chomsky 2000a: 60).
I-language generates linguistic expressions (or structural descriptions, Chomsky
2000a: 26), which include instructions that performance systems access and use for
interpreting thoughts on the meaning side and expressing thoughts on the sound side
(Chomsky 2000a: 27–29). More specifically, I-language consists of a computational
procedure (which is invariant) and a lexicon (where language variation lies). The
lexicon is a set of lexical items – complexes of semantic and phonological proper-
ties (Chomsky 2000a: 175). The computational procedure selects items from the
lexicon and maps them (i.e. forms an expression, a more complex array of such
features) into phonetic form (PF) and logical form (LF) – i.e. it maps them to <phon,
sem> pairs. All of this, for Chomsky, is pure syntax (Chomsky 2000a: 120, 125).
More recently, Chomsky (e.g. 2004; 2005a; 2015) has elucidated the relation
between the cognitive system of FL and the performance systems in terms of the
Strong Minimalist Thesis. The Strong Minimalist Thesis states that Universal
Grammar – i.e. the innate and invariant part of FL – is perfectly designed to satisfy
the interface conditions, which are conditions imposed by the conceptual-­intentional
(C-I) and articulatory-perceptual (A-P) interfaces. Interface conditions must be sat-
isfied ‘[i]f language is to be usable at all’ (Chomsky 2004: 106).
This Minimalist Faculty of Language consists of narrow syntax, a computa-
tional procedure which maps a lexical array to a derivation; the phonological
component, which maps a derivation to phon; and the semantic component,
which maps a derivation to sem. The computation maps a lexical array to a <phon,
sem> syntactic object piece by piece, cyclically. That is, syntactic objects are con-
structed by narrow syntax in stages (or in ‘phases’). The phonological component
and the semantic component apply to units constructed by narrow syntax; the opera-
tion TRANSFER transfers a derivation to the phonological and semantic compo-
nents, where they are converted into phon and sem, respectively (Chomsky 2004:
107–110).
In line with the Strong Minimalist Thesis, the A-P interface places a condition on
narrow syntax that phon indicates temporal order. An interface condition placed on
narrow syntax by the C-I interface is that sem anticipates a duality of semantic inter-
pretation at C-I. One kind of such properties has to do with argument structure
(theta-theoretic properties). The other kind involves everything else, namely scopal
and discourse-related properties (Chomsky 2004: 110).
Chomsky (e.g. 2004, 2005a, b) argues that there are three factors involved in the
determination of I-languages: (1) genetic endowment, (2) experience and (3) prin-
ciples that are language- or even organism-independent. Investigating the third fac-
tor allows a principled explanation of the properties of language – explanation in
terms that reach beyond the linguistic. Chomsky’s quest for principled explanation
of FL in terms of its interaction with the interfacing systems has given rise to the
view of FL as a non-autonomous module of the mind.
2  Conceptual Correlates of Words
19
What is of particular interest to me now is the extent to which the semantic com-
ponent of FL is determined by the conceptual-intentional system and the way it
interacts with it. This brings us to the next sub-section, where I consider Chomsky’s
views on concepts (i.e. elements of the conceptual-intentional system) as well as the
relation and interaction between them and the sem element of the Chomskyan
<phon, sem> object.
2.2.2  
Two Kinds of Semantic Content?
When discussing Chomsky’s stance on semantics, it is important to note his (2007:
14) asymmetry assumption, which is the view that language is primarily optimised
to the conceptual-intentional interface. Mapping to the sensory-motor (i.e.
articulatory-­
perceptual) interface is merely an ‘ancillary procedure’; it is used only
for externalisation and involves morpho-phonology,10
which is there to satisfy the
‘linking condition’. The linking condition, which can be traced back to Aristotle,
states that language links sound and meaning (Chomsky 2005a: 10) and has given
rise to Chomsky’s view of linguistic expressions as syntactic objects constituted by
both semantic and phonological properties (i.e. double-interface objects). The
double-­
interface idea will be discussed in more detail in Chap. 3. Now I will con-
centrate on the interaction of semantic properties of Chomsky’s linguistic expres-
sions and their relation to the conceptual-intentional system. Consider the quote
below.
Generation of expressions to satisfy the semantic interface yields a “language of thought.”
If the assumption of asymmetry is correct, then the earliest stage of language would have
been just that: a language of thought, used internally. It has been argued that an independent
language of thought must be postulated. I think there are reasons for scepticism, but that
would take us too far afield. (2007: 14, my italics)
This quote is revealing in several ways. If language is primarily optimised to the
conceptual-intentional performance system (and since mapping to phon is a ‘sec-
ondary process’, 2005a: 4), then, for Chomsky, language is primarily (in evolution-
ary, but also in functional terms) employed for thinking. Indeed, the importance of
the conceptual-intentional system in Chomsky’s theory is evidenced in his recent
(2013, 2015) reformulation of the Aristotelian conception of language as ‘meaning
with sound’, rather than ‘sound with meaning’. However, many questions arise
about the relation between language and thinking.
As discussed earlier, Chomsky distinguishes between two kinds of thinking,
namely language-independent thinking and thinking which involves language. This
distinction gives rise to the question of how the two types of thinking are different.
In other words, how does natural language semantics differ from the semantics of
“the language of thought”?
10
 For Chomsky (e.g. 2007: 8) phonology includes morphology.
2.2 Chomsky’s Internalism
20
Answering this question becomes complicated in the light of Chomsky’s (2005a:
4) view that lexical items are ‘related to or perhaps identical with the concepts that
are the elements of the “cognoscitive powers,” sometimes now regarded as a “lan-
guage of thought” along lines developed by Jerry Fodor (1975)11
’ [my italics].
Whereas it is clear that, according to Chomsky, the elements of natural language
semantics are strongly associated with the semantics of thought, it is not clear
whether the two kinds of semantics – that of “the language of thought” and that of
language – are the same (if identical) or different (if merely related). If they are
merely related, we need to know in what way and why they are different. If they are
identical, we need to know whether it is conceptually necessary to duplicate them,
i.e. to posit two loci of the same semantic elements.12
If natural language semantics and the semantics of thought are ‘related’, then
presumably they are grounded in the same conceptual-intentional modality (i.e.
they both deal with concepts), but are structurally distinct. Relevant here is the
analytic-­
synthetic distinction. Fodor, as we have seen in Sect. 2.1, rejects the
analytic-­
synthetic distinction and is therefore committed to atomic (i.e. non-­
structured) and therefore purely referential semantic content of words. Chomsky,
however, endorses the analytic-synthetic distinction and hence possibly also the
notion of molecular semantic content for conceptual correlates of words. I used the
word ‘possibly’ for two reasons: the first is that the existence and endorsement of
the analytic-synthetic distinction does not necessarily amount to the existence and
endorsement of molecular linguistic semantics and the second is that Chomsky is
actually not unsympathetic to meaning holism. I explore the first of these points in
the remainder of this section, and the second one in Sect. 2.3.
Chomsky (e.g. 2000a: 61–67) argues that there is enough linguistic evidence to
support the analytic-synthetic distinction. Consider words like chase or persuade,
which, as Chomsky observes, involve reference to human intention:
To chase Jones is not only to follow him, but to follow him with the intent of staying on his
path, perhaps to catch him. To persuade Smith to do something is to cause him to decide or
intend to do it; if he never decides or intends to do it, we have not succeeded in persuading
him. Furthermore, he must decide or intend by his own volition, not under duress […]
(Chomsky 2000a: 62)
11
 Prior to his externalist commitments in Fodor (1998) and (2008), Fodor argued that conceptual
correlates of words were innate.
12
 Following from this last comment is the question about the rationale for positing the C-I interface
at all. If the semantic elements of UG are ‘identical to’ the semantic elements of LOT, then, argu-
ably, the semantic component of UG just is the language of thought. The following quotes from
Chomsky are relevant here:
The simplest thesis is that an expression E has no existence apart from its properties at the
interface levels, phon(E) and sem(E) (if these exist). (2000a: 175, my italics)
On very weak assumptions about efficient computation, there should be no linguistic levels
beyond those that are imposed by interface conditions: that is, the interface levels themselves.
In fact, it is not even obvious that these exist. (2005a: 16, my italics)
2  Conceptual Correlates of Words
21
What follows from this observation is the distinction between ‘truths of meaning’
(i.e. analytic truths) and ‘truths of fact’ (i.e. synthetic truths). If Tom chased Jones,
then he necessarily followed him intending (at least) to stay on his path. If Kate
persuaded Nikki to join the Chester-le-Street amateur rowing club, then at some
point in time Nikki decided or intended to join the Chester-le-Street amateur rowing
club. In a similar vein, if John killed Bill, then Bill is dead. These are all ‘truths of
meaning’ – we arrive at them just by virtue of knowing language, i.e. without hav-
ing to consider or know what the world is like. This, for Chomsky, is a good indica-
tion that ‘there are necessary connections among concepts, reflected in connections
of meaning among words’ (2000a: 63, my italics). The word ‘reflected’ here is
crucial because it clearly indicates that when Chomsky says that there is no reason
why semantic connections should not be ‘completely fixed and stable as a matter of
biological endowment’, he is talking about connections among concepts, and not
linguistic expressions. The latter merely ‘reflect’ such connections.
This distinction comes out even more clearly when Chomsky (2000a: 66) writes
that in language acquisition the child’s task is to ‘discover labels’ for the innate
stock of concepts. Figs. 2.1 and 2.2 will help me illustrate this point.
Figures 2.1 and 2.2 share the same configuration of three blocks. We can even
say that the configuration of blocks in Fig. 2.1 is contained in the configuration
presented in Fig. 2.2. Now, if we assume for the sake of this illustration, that the
individual blocks represent primitive concepts and that the patterns formed out of
them represent structured concepts, we can say that the structured concept in Fig. 2.1
is entailed by the structured concept in Fig. 2.2 because it is contained within it. In
Fig. 2.1  Blimpft
Fig. 2.2  Molont
2.2 Chomsky’s Internalism
22
other words, there is an analytic relation between the configurations/structured con-
cepts in the two figures. Let me now label the structure in Fig. 2.1 as blimpft and the
one in Fig. 2.2 as molont. This allows us to say – by proxy – that the word blimpft is
contained within the word molont, that the word molont entails the word blimpft,
and that there is an analytic relation between them. But notice the importance of ‘by
proxy’ here; we know that it is not the word blimpft that is contained in the word
molont, rather it is the structure which I have labelled blimpft that is contained
within the structure that I have called molont.
It seems to me that when Chomsky talks about analytic relations he makes a
similar distinction – the analytic relations concern concepts (i.e. sem) and not their
morpho-phonological labels (i.e. phon) or linguistic expressions/words (i.e. <sem,
phon>) as such. Let me explain this.
There are two aspects of Chomsky’s linguistics that are relevant here. The first is
his view of linguistic expressions as double-interface objects constituted by morpho-­
phonological and semantic properties. The second is the notion of I-language, with
the emphasis on the individualistic nature of it. The first point to observe is that even
though, for Chomsky, morpho-phonological and semantic properties together con-
stitute a syntactic object, the fact remains that the relation between them is arbitrary,
i.e. non-natural (it is the locus of Saussurean arbitrariness). The implications are the
following. In my blocks scenario (Figs. 2.1 and 2.2), I have argued that the analytic
relation does not hold between blimpft and molont but between the structures that
these nonce words merely label. This argument can be further extended to say that
the analytic relation does not hold between (i) the object constituted by the structure
that the label blimpft labels and the label itself on the one hand, and (ii) another
object constituted by the structure that the label molont labels and the label itself, on
the other. The analytic relation does not hold between such doubly constituted
objects because the relation between the structure and the label is arbitrary.
To explain this, let us imagine that I was wrong in calling those structures blimpft
and molont respectively – I confused them with some other labels. The structures
presented in Figs. 2.1 and 2.2 should actually be called plumtug and gufhan. The
fact that the labels can change, while leaving the relation between the conceptual
structures intact, clearly shows that the analytic relation holds between the concep-
tual structures only, rather than between labels or objects constituted by structures
and labels. In other words, logical relations do not care about labels. This argument
is necessarily extendable to natural languages because the relation between morpho-­
phonological and semantic properties is arbitrary, i.e. non-natural. Evidence for this
comes from cross-linguistic, cross-dialectal and diachronic considerations: the
same structure is labelled chase in English, gonić in Polish and inseguire in Italian;
the same thing is called plimsoll or gym shoe or sandshoe in English; no-one uses
the Middle English label þou anymore. Analytic relations thus clearly do not hold
between labels or linguistic expressions (i.e. double-interface objects). Chomsky
seems to mean precisely that when he writes that it is ‘the a priori framework of
human thought, within which language is acquired, [that] provides necessary con-
nections between concepts’ (2000a: 62–63).
2  Conceptual Correlates of Words
23
I also mentioned that the view of analyticity as pertaining solely to concepts fol-
lows from Chomsky’s insistence on the individualistic nature of I-language. It is
well known that the word disinterested is synonymous with impartial for many, but
not all, speakers of English. It follows then that many, but not all, speakers of
English will use the two words interchangeably. They will do so because in their
minds the semantic structures labelled by the two words are similar, if not identical.
That the analytic relation exists only between the semantic structures labelled is
clear from the empirical fact that other speakers do not use the two words inter-
changeably. For those that do not, there is no analytic relation between the semantic
structure labelled disinterested and the semantic structure labelled impartial (but
there is such a relation for them between the structure labelled disinterested and the
structure labelled uninterested). This, and other more idiosyncratic uses like that of
pineapple instead of pinnacle (Burton-Roberts 2013), demonstrates that there is a
decisively individualistic element implicated in assigning and using labels. It also
demonstrates that analyticity judgments (in relation to the words) are an individual-
istic matter.
These individualistic insights into analyticity judgements highlight a problem in
Fodor’s methodological assumption of the lexical-conceptual isomorphism. Once a
clear distinction is made between concepts as such and the way a concept functions
as a word’s semantics, it is not necessary to posit the anyway problematic atomism
to maintain the naturalistic claims about concepts.13
Now, if Chomsky is right in his I-assumptions – i.e. internalist and individualistic
assumptions  – about word meaning/semantics, then there is no interesting (i.e.
cross-speaker and/or cross-context stable) notion of linguistic semantics. But before
I discuss this point in more detail, let me investigate another reason behind
Chomsky’s I-assumptions, i.e. his observations about reference.
2.2.3  Chomsky on Reference
What clearly distinguishes Chomsky from Fodor are their different notions of con-
tent. Fodor, as mentioned, endorses a notion of a concept’s ‘content’ that is consti-
tuted by a relation to something external to the concept. Such ‘content’ is not a
property of a concept; it is a relation. Fodorian ‘content’ is experientially acquired.
Chomsky, by contrast, endorses a notion of content as a property of a concept.
Chomsky (e.g. 2000a: 127–129) endorses an internalist, compositional notion of
content and argues that reference is much more fine-grained than object reference
allows for. The example that he famously discusses in this context is that of the
name London. Chomsky (2000a: 37) observes that we can think and talk about
London in terms of ‘a location or area, people who sometimes live there, the air
above it (but not too high), buildings, institutions, etc., in various combinations’.
13
 I shortly return to the question of whether such an unambiguous distinction is actually made by
Chomsky himself.
2.2 Chomsky’s Internalism
24
Moreover, he notes that ‘under some circumstances, it [London] could be com-
pletely destroyed and rebuilt somewhere else, years or even millennia later, still
being London, that same city.’ For Chomsky then, ‘there neither are nor are believed
to be things-in-the-world with the properties of the intricate modes of reference that
a […] name encapsulates’ (2000a: 37). Hence, what we ever refer to is the world as
seen through ‘the perspectives made available by the resources of the mind’
(Chomsky 2000a: 16).
Ludlow (2003) remarks that Chomsky’s concerns about referential semantics
are, at their root, concerns about what he calls ‘the language/world isomorphism’.
This isomorphism is a correlation between something in the world (an object, an
event) and its mental representation. What Chomsky’s London example shows is
that there is no isomorphism between an entity in the world and the linguistic
expression London that we use when we talk about London. More precisely, there is
nothing in the mind-external world such that it corresponds to the semantic proper-
ties ‘encapsulated’ by the term London.
Chomsky’s arguments against the language-world isomorphism can be grouped
into three inter-related categories. Ludlow (2003) calls them the Implausible
Commitments Argument, the “Type Mismatch” Argument and the Misbehaving
Object Argument. I will discuss them now and then, in the following sub-section, I
will try to identify some insights that these arguments offer on Chomsky’s views on
the relation between natural language semantics and the semantics of the C-I
system.
The Implausible Commitments Argument concerns reference to fictional entities
such as unicorns or Santa Claus, but also, and perhaps more fundamentally, it is
related to Chomsky’s discussion of terms like London, i.e. terms which prima facie
could be granted an external referent. The argument emphasises the fine-grained
nature of reference and, following from this, the implausibility of there being in the
mind-external world any entities that correspond to what we are talking about when
using language. Other expressions that Chomsky famously discusses in this context
are the flaw in the argument and the average man. Chomsky observes (1981: 324):
If I say “the flaw in the argument is obvious, but it escaped John’s attention,” I am not com-
mitted to the absurd view that among things in the world are flaws, one of them in the argu-
ment in question. Nevertheless, the NP the flaw in the argument behaves in all relevant
respects in the manner of the truly referential expression the coat in the closet – for exam-
ple, it can be the antecedent of it and serves as an argument, taking a θ-role.
Just as there are no things in the mind-external world such that correspond to terms
like London and the flaw in the argument, neither are there entities corresponding to
expressions like the average man (consider ‘The average man has 2.3 children’).
For Chomsky neither the world nor the cogniser’s mental model is constituted by
entities that speakers describe as things that concern them (e.g. Chomsky 2000a:
135–136).
The “Type Mismatch” Argument concerns a disparity between the type of indi-
viduation that objects and substances intuitively have and the type of individuation
that a referential semantics provides. For explanatory purposes, Ludlow (2003: 149)
2  Conceptual Correlates of Words
25
makes a distinction between a P-substance and an I-substance. In the context of the
expression water, the P-substance would be H2O, i.e. that sort of matter that would
play part in a physical theory, whereas the I-substance would be that which we intui-
tively talk about when we are using language. The problem, Ludlow (2003) argues,
is that, in terms of referential semantics, water would be assigned the P-substance
(H2O) as its semantic value, but the I-substance we are talking about when we use
the term water is often something else. For example, what we find in rivers is often
called water, but it would rarely be considered H2O. Furthermore, it appears that
there are things that have chemical composition closer than river water has to H2O,
but that we do not call water. Tea is one such example. The general argument then
is that P-substances and I-substances do not match up.
The third argument against referential semantics, the Misbehaving Object
Argument, is closely related to the first two. The “Type Mismatch” Argument was
illustrated by the usage of the term water, but what the case of water also illustrates
is that the I-substance talked about when using this word is, as Ludlow (2003: 15)
puts it, ‘a most ill-behaved sort of substance’. Chomsky (2000a: 128) imagines the
following scenario:
Suppose cup1 is filled from the tap. It is a cup of water, but if a tea bag is dipped into it, that
is no longer the case. It is now a cup of tea, something different. Suppose cup2 is filled from
a tap connected to a reservoir in which tea has been dumped (say, as a new kind of purifier).
What is in cup2 is water, not tea, even if a chemist could not distinguish it from the present
contents of cup1. The cups contain the same thing from one point of view, different things
from another; but in either case cup2 contains only water and cup1 only tea.
The point that Chomsky is making here is that whether we regard something as
water or not depends on the intricate interaction of human interests, concerns,
beliefs and intentions. The fact that I-substances, or what we may call I-meanings,
are so ‘unruly’ follows naturally from the assumption that meaning/semantics of
linguistic expressions is determined by internalist-individualistic psychology.
Chomsky (e.g. 1975, 2002) argues that even apparently simple concepts like that of
object do not correspond to what we may describe as P-substances in any interesting
way. He observes that spatiotemporal contiguity, a prima facie good candidate for
identifying P-substances, is not sufficient; a wing of an aeroplane is an object, but
its left half (though equally continuous) is not, a herd of cattle is not an object, but
a picket fence with breaks is (though equally discontinuous). Whether something is
called an object or not, Chomsky (1975: 203) concludes, is crucially determined by
beliefs about human will and intention.
Even the simplest of words integrate information about such properties as mate-
rial constitution, design, intended use, origin, causal properties, etc. (e.g. Chomsky
2002: 87). More interestingly, lexical items often provide conflicting perspectives
on how to view the world. Books, for example, can be both abstract and concrete; if
two copies of the same book are taken out from the library by two people, then in
the abstract sense they have taken out the same book, but in the concrete sense a
different one. Chomsky (2000a: 36) writes:
2.2 Chomsky’s Internalism
26
[…] the internal conditions on meaning are rich, complex, and unsuspected; in fact, barely
known. The most elaborate dictionaries do not dream of such subtleties; they provide no
more than hints that enable the intended concept to be identified by those who already have
it (at least, in essential respects).
There are two points to be made about this quote. On the one hand, the semantics,
or the perspectives for viewing the world that lexical items afford seem to be – in
some ‘essential respects’ – innately pre-determined (see also 2000a: 61). It seems
then that such innate semantics should, in principle, be subject to a naturalistic
inquiry, like that of Chomsky’s. But it is not; the question about the meaning/seman-
tics of linguistic expressions falls outside Chomsky’s naturalistic enquiry into the
nature of FL (e.g. Chomsky 2000a: 20, 36). The reason for this is that, even if per-
spectives – or let us call them conceptual primitives – were innate and hence species-­
invariant, the associations between morpho-phonological labels and conceptual
structures are dependent on context and individualistic psychology. If we combine
the innateness thesis with the individualistic nature of language, Chomsky’s point
seems to be that even though semantic content (i.e. conceptual content) may be
innate, the role it plays in language use – or the way it is involved in meaning/
semantics of linguistic expressions – is context-variable and speaker-variable. It is
not surprising then that Chomsky (2000a: 132) regards a naturalistic inquiry into
natural language semantics as ill-fated. The point that I would like to stress here is
that whichever way of naturalising concepts – nativism or some version of percep-
tual grounding – turns out to be a better approximation of what is happening in our
minds, the relation that concerns us here, i.e. the relation between linguistic ‘labels’
and concepts, is arbitrary and hence varies across contexts and speakers.
The consequences are profound: from Chomsky’s internalism-individualism it
follows that the meaning/semantics of linguistic expressions is neither stable nor
shared in any interesting way, i.e. it is not shared in a way that supports naturalistic
(or social externalist) accounts of linguistic semantics. This is the essence of
I-language. Fundamentally, Chomsky (e.g. 2000a: 137) argues that a radically indi-
vidualistic approach to the study of natural language meaning/semantics – i.e. a
holistic approach, which involves the study of beliefs mediating between us and
things in the world – seems to be a ‘fruitful’ direction to pursue.14
We now also
know that this approach is in line with what has been gleaned from neurolinguistic
studies – i.e. that ‘lexical-semantic and conceptual-semantic aspects during word
processing are not easily distinguishable’ (see Berwick et al. 2013: 95 and refer-
ences within).
However, this sympathy of Chomsky’s for holism and individualism is in tension
with his view of language, and thus of linguistic expressions, as doubly constituted
by phonological and semantic properties. The next section is concerned with this
tension.
14
 In this context, Chomsky (2000a: 137) makes reference to Bilgrami’s (1992) radically contextual-
ist thesis about unity and locality of semantic content. Bilgrami’s approach is discussed in Chap. 4.
2  Conceptual Correlates of Words
27
2.2.4  
Chomsky’s Legacy in Research into Semantics
and Pragmatics
As discussed earlier, Chomsky reconstructs Aristotle’s idea – that language links
sound and meaning, or, more recently, that language is meaning with sound – by
attributing both semantics and phonology to linguistic expressions. On this view,
linguistic expressions are taken to be double-interface syntactic objects constituted
by phonological and semantic properties (<phon, sem>). Figure 2.3 illustrates this.
Following from this double-interface assumption is the view that (i) words, and
linguistic expressions generally, have meaning in virtue of encoding linguistic
semantics as their constitutive property and that (ii) it is in virtue of having meaning
as their constitutive property that words guide interpretation to specific regions of
the conceptual space. For example, in Relevance Theory (e.g. Sperber and Wilson
1995, Carston 2002), which considers itself an adjunct to, or an extension of,
Chomskyan tradition (Wedgewood 2007: 679), the encoded linguistic semantics is
necessarily and always decoded by the language module and delivered as logical
form to the pragmatic processor.
The point that I am making here is this. The view that there exists a specifically
linguistic, i.e. non-pragmatic, semantic level follows from the view that linguistic
expressions are double-interface objects. Indeed, in the light of the double-interface
view of language, Chomsky’s (2005a: 4) claim that natural language semantics may
be ‘related’ to the semantics of thought and Chomsky’s (e.g. 2000a: 62) endorse-
ment of the analytic-synthetic distinction may be interpreted in favour of some
notion of linguistic semantics. On the other hand, Chomsky’s (2005a: 4) claim that
natural language semantics may be ‘identical’ with – i.e. the same as – the seman-
tics of thought, and Chomsky’s (e.g. 2000a: 137) endorsement of holism and indi-
vidualism(aswellasacarefulreadingofChomsky’swritingsontheanalytic-synthetic
distinction) are incompatible with the notion of linguistic semantics. Indeed,
Chomsky concedes:
[…] that any such thing as I-meaning (“semantic representation,” “narrow content”) even
exists is now commonly denied. Comparable questions about I-sound have rarely been
raised. The empirical disciplines seem to me to study them in much the same way: in par-
ticular, to assume that both involve invariant universal features of which LIs [linguistic
expressions] are constituted (and hence are not radically holistic). I will tentatively assume
that postulation of I-sound and I-meaning is legitimate, returning to reasons for denying it.
(Chomsky 2000a: 170, my italics)
Fig. 2.3  The double-­
interface object
2.2 Chomsky’s Internalism
28
The problem, for Chomsky, is that if there is no interesting (i.e. cross-speaker and/
or cross-context shared) notion of linguistic semantics (i.e. no interesting notion of
sem) – as implied by his I-assumptions – it is not clear in what sense a linguistic
expression can be a double-interface <phon, sem > object.This tension in Chomsky’s
thinking – that there is sem because language deals with double-interface objects
and that there cannot be sem because of the I-nature of words’ meanings/seman-
tics – is the leitmotif of this book.
2.3  Conclusion
This chapter has engaged with the relation between words and concepts. I have
argued that Fodor’s lexical-conceptual isomorphism, i.e. a view that primitive con-
cepts correspond to word meanings/semantics yields an inappropriate account of
the word-concept relation as it is incompatible with cross-linguistic evidence and
with Fodor’s own view that thought is language-independent. The problems with
Fodor’s theory provide ample justification for the adoption of Chomsky’s internalist
account of conceptual content, which was introduced in the second part of the chap-
ter. The aspects of Chomsky’s theory that I endorse are the following:
	(a)	 Compositionality: conceptual correlates of words are structured, i.e. composi-
tionally constituted
	(b)	 Context-variability: words often ‘encapsulate’ conflicting perspectives, i.e.
their meaning/semantics is highly context-variable
	(c)	 Individualism: the meaning/semantics of words is individualistic, i.e. the con-
ceptual structures ‘encapsulated’ by words vary from person to person
In the light of the problems with Fodor’s lexical-conceptual isomorphism, assump-
tion (a) is rather uncontroversial. Problems start when we consider assumptions (b)
and (c) in detail. As mentioned, Chomsky’s I-assumptions, if correct, have serious
implications not only for theories postulating the existence of some form of linguis-
tic semantics, but also for the double-interface view of language as such.
In the next chapter, I focus on Relevance Theory’s notion of linguistic semantics
and argue that such content is implausible and redundant in accounting for meaning
in language. The choice of this particular theory is dictated by two reasons. First, as
mentioned earlier, Relevance Theory developed as an adjunct to the Chomskyan
thinking about language. Second, apart from the notion of linguistic semantics,
Relevance Theory offers a very powerful and explanatory account of utterance
interpretation. The discussion then leads me to introduce the Representational
Hypothesis (e.g. Burton-Roberts 2013), a conceptual programme which rejects the
double-interface view of language and, along with it, the assumption that words
havemeaningasaconstitutiveproperty.InlinewiththeRepresentationalHypothesis,
I argue for a semiotic, wholly inferential, account of utterance interpretation, and
explain the mechanics of such an account in terms of Hintzman’s (e.g. 1986)
multiple-­
trace theory of memory.
2  Conceptual Correlates of Words
29
References
Berwick, R. C., Friederici, A. D., Chomsky, N., & Bolhuis, J. J. (2013). Evolution, brain, and the
nature of language. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 17(2), 89–98.
Bilgrami, A. (1992). Belief and meaning. Cambridge, MA: Basil Blackwell Ltd..
Burge, T. (1979). Individualism and the mental. In P. French et al. (Eds.), Midwest studies in phi-
losophy (Vol. 4). Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press. [Reprinted in Burge, T. (2007).
Foundations of mind (pp. 100–150). Oxford: Clarendon Press].
Burton-Roberts, N. (2013). Meaning, semantics and semiotics. In A. Capone, F. Lo Piparo, &
M. Carapezza (Eds.), Perspectives on linguistic pragmatics (pp. 1–22). London: Springer.
Carston, R. (2002). Thoughts and utterances: The pragmatics of explicit communication. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Chomsky, N. (1975). Reflections on language. New York: Pantheon.
Chomsky, N. (1981). Lectures on government and binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
Chomsky, N. (2000a). New horizons in the study of language and mind. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Chomsky, N. (2000b). The architecture of language. New Delhi: Oxford University Press.
Chomsky, N. (2002). On nature and language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Chomsky, N. (2004). Beyond explanatory adequacy. In A. Belletti (Ed.), Structures and beyond:
The cartography of syntactic structure (Vol. 3, pp. 104–131). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Chomsky, N. (2005a). Three factors in language design. Linguistic Inquiry, 36(1), 1–22.
Chomsky, N. (2005b). On phases. (manuscript). [Published (2008) in R. Freidin, C. P. Otero, M. L.
Zubizarreta (Ed.), Foundational issues in linguistic theory (pp. 133–166). Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press].
Chomsky, N. (2007). Approaching UG from below. In U.  Sauerland & H.-M.  Gärtner (Eds.),
Interfaces + recursion = language?: Chomsky’s minimalism and the view from syntax-­
semantics (pp. 1–29). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Chomsky, N. (2013). Problems of projection. Lingua, 130, 33–49.
Chomsky, N. (2015). Some core contested concepts. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, 44(1),
91–104.
Fodor, J. (1975). The language of thought. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Fodor, J. (1980). Methodological solipsism considered as a research strategy in cognitive psychol-
ogy. The Behavioural and Brain Sciences, 3, 63–109.
Fodor, J. (1998). Concepts: Where cognitive science went wrong. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Fodor, J.  (2007). Semantics  – An interview with Jerry Fodor. Revista Virtual de Estudos da
Linguagem – ReVEL, 5(8), 1–13.
Fodor, J. (2008). LOT2: Language of thought revisited. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Fodor, J., & Pylyshyn, Z. (2015). Minds without meanings: An essay on the content of concepts.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Hintzman, D. (1986). “Schema abstraction” in a multiple trace memory model. Psychological
Review, 93, 411–428.
Jackson, F. (2015). Review of Fodor and Pylyshyn’s ‘Minds without meanings: An essay on the
content of concepts’. Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews, 2015.03.12. http://ndpr.nd.edu/
news/56392-minds-without-meanings-an-essay-on-the-content-of-concepts/. Accessed 12
Sept 2016.
Lahav, R. (1989). Against compositionality: The case of adjectives. Philosophical Studies, 57,
261–279.
Laurence, S., & Margolis, E. (1999). Concepts and cognitive science. In S. Laurence & E. Margolis
(Eds.), Concepts: Core readings (pp. 3–81). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Lepore, E. (1999). Semantic holism. In R. Auri (Ed.), The Cambridge dictionary of philosophy
(2nd ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Ludlow, P. (2003). Referential semantics for I-languages? In L. M. Antony & N. Hornstein (Eds.),
Chomsky and his critics (pp. 140–161). Malden: Blackwell.
References
30
Pagin, P. (2006). Meaning holism. In E. Lepore & B. Smith (Eds.), Handbook of philosophy of
language (pp. 213–232). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Putnam, H. (1975). The meaning of ‘meaning’. In Philosophical papers, vol. 2: Mind language
and reality (pp. 215–271). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Quine, W. V. O. (1951). Two dogmas of empiricism. Philosophical Review, 60, 20–43. [Reprinted
in Quine, W. V. O. (1961). From a logical point of view, 2nd edn. Harvard: Harvard University
Press].
Rey, G. (2010). The analytic/synthetic distinction. In: E. N. Zalta (Ed.), The Stanford Encyclopedia
of philosophy. http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/analytic-synthetic. Accessed 21 Jan 2011.
Sperber, D., & Wilson, D. (1995). Relevance: Communication and cognition (2nd ed.). Oxford:
Blackwell Publishers Ltd.
Sztencel, M. (2011). Against referential semantics. In P. Frath et al. (Eds.), Res-per-nomen III: La
référence, la conscience et le sujet énonciateur. Reims: Épure.
Wedgwood, D. (2007). Shared assumptions: Semantic minimalism and RT. Journal of Linguistics,
43, 647–681.
2  Conceptual Correlates of Words
31
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
M. Sztencel, Semantics, Pragmatics and Meaning Revisited,
Perspectives in Pragmatics, Philosophy & Psychology 17,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-69116-9_3
Chapter 3
The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-
Inferring Distinction
This chapter addresses (i) the question of whether the notion of shared semantic con-
tent is theoretically sound, and if not (ii) whether it is possible to account for mutual
understanding between interlocutors in communication without positing the level of
shared semantic content. I answer the first question by looking at Relevance Theory’s
(e.g. Carston 2002, 2010) notion of linguistic semantics. I argue that standard
Relevance Theory does not actually offer an account of linguistic semantics which is
shared among the members of the same speech community or across contexts. Second,
even in Relevance Theory’s terms, the process of deterministic decoding of linguistic
semantics is redundant. This problem concerns the standard RT’s notion of linguistic
semantics as well as the more recent RT proposal (Carston 2012, 2013) that linguistic
semantic content is non-conceptual. In 3.2, I discuss Burton-Roberts’ (e.g. 2009) criti-
cism of the double-interface tradition. I then introduce the Representational Hypothesis
(e.g. Burton-Roberts 2000, 2013; Burton-Roberts and Poole 2006a; Chng 1999), a
conceptual programme which rejects the double-interface view of linguistic expres-
sions (<phon, sem>) as problematic and anyway unnecessary to account for linguistic
‘sound with a meaning’ and offers a semiotic, wholly inferential, account of meaning
Parts of this chapter have been reprinted from Lingua, 152, Magdalena Sztencel, Conditionality in
individual minds: an argument for a wholly pragmatic approach to utterance interpretation, 81–97,
Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V., with permission from Elsevier.
The quotations from Thoughts and Utterances: The Pragmatics of Explicit Communication, Robyn
Carston, 2002 are republished here with permission of John Wiley and Sons Inc.; permission con-
veyed through Copyright Clearance Center, Inc.
The quotation from Mind and Language, 16, Jerry Fodor, Language, thought and compositionality,
1–15, Copyright © Blackwell Publishers Ltd. 2001, is reprinted here with permission of John
Wiley and Sons Inc.
The quotationss from Jerry Fodor, 1998, Concepts: where cognitive science went wrong, Oxford:
Oxford University Press, and Jerry Fodor, 2008, LOT2: Language of Thought Revisited, Oxford:
Oxford University Press., are used here by permission of Oxford University Press.
32
in language. Finally, I argue that the mechanics of the representational account can be
implemented in terms of Hintzman’s (e.g. 1986) multiple-trace theory of memory.
Like the Representational Hypothesis, Hintzman’s model predicts that the understand-
ing of speaker-intended meaning is a wholly pragmatic, inferential process.
3.1  
Linguistic Semantics in Relevance Theory
The aim of Chap. 2 was to show that the relation between words and concepts is
more complex than Fodor’s lexical-conceptual isomorphism predicts. The discus-
sion of problems with Fodor’s account brought me to Chomsky’s internalism about
conceptual/semantic content. I identified three aspects of Chomsky’s thinking that I
endorse: (a) internal compositionality of a word’s semantics, (b) its context-­
variability and (c) its individualistic nature. However, I argued that there is a tension
in Chomsky’s account between his internalist-individualistic assumptions and the
double-interface view of language and linguistic expressions.
As discussed in Sect. 3.2.2, for Chomsky (e.g. 1995) Language (i.e. FL) is sub-
ject to a realist/naturalistic enquiry in terms of necessary principles – it is ‘a real
object of the natural world’. By hypothesis, Language is ‘perfect’, which means that
it is free of any form of variation – there is nothing in it that is not conceptually
necessary. Crucially, for Chomsky (e.g. 2007), the two systems that Language inter-
faces with, C-I and A-P – and hence SEM and PHON components of Language –
are indeed conceptually necessary. Given Chomsky’s realist/naturalistic concerns, it
should follow that since SEM is a necessary component of Language, which is natu-
ral, SEM too should be subject to a formal explanation in terms of necessary prin-
ciples. Thus, positing SEM, i.e. some notion of linguistic/lexical semantics which is
cross-speaker and cross-context shared follows from Chomsky’s realist/naturalistic
inquiry into Language as the double-interface system.
However, as also mentioned in Chap. 2, Chomsky’s I-assumptions are incompat-
ible with positing some such form of SEM. Indeed, Chomsky (2000a: 170) con-
cedes that he only ‘tentatively’ assumes that it exists. The problem is that Chomsky’s
acknowledgement of the variability (individualistic and contextual) in the associa-
tion between a word form and semantic properties suggests that, for him, word
‘meanings’ cannot be shared in any interesting sense, and yet the double-interface
idea depends on the existence of SEM (and PHON). This gives rise to the question
of whether it is possible and necessary to posit SEM.
Now, in the double-interface tradition, linguistic signs have meaning in virtue of
encoding linguistic semantic properties: the word cat is meaningful because it con-
stitutively encodes (i.e. has as its property) the concept CAT. This effectively equates
having meaning with having semantic properties.
A consequence of this assumption is that to account for meaning in language we
need to posit two kinds of semantics – that of words and, on the assumption that
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
33
thoughts too have semantics, that of thoughts. In Relevance Theory (e.g. Carston
2002), this idea is developed in terms of the distinction between linguistic semantics
and real semantics, respectively. I explain this distinction below.
For standard Relevance Theory (e.g. Carston 2002, henceforth RT), the linguistic
system ‘maps’ a phonetic representation into a semantic representation, which is ‘a
structured (presumably conceptual) mental representation’ (Carston 2002: 9). This
semantic representation, or ‘encoded linguistic meaning’, is to be understood in
terms of ‘some appropriate notion of logical form, computed by linguistic decoding
system’ (ibid.).
One of Carston’s (2002) aims is to work out the details of the relation between the
assumed linguistic meaning decoded by the language faculty and occasion-­
specific
interpretations of utterances (i.e. propositions, or thoughts, communicated by utter-
ances). This concern of Carston’s reflects RT’s distinction between linguistic meaning
and speaker meaning. Linguistic meaning is context-independent and refers to ‘rela-
tively stable meanings in a linguistic system, meanings which are widely shared across
a community of users of the system’ (Carston 2002: 19–20). In contrast, speaker
meaning refers to a thought communicated by a particular speaker on a particular
occasion. Hence, speaker meaning is to a large extent individualistic and context-
dependent. The semantic content of the logical form en/decoded by the language fac-
ulty is referred to as linguistic semantics, whereas the semantic content of the
thought/proposition communicated by the speaker is referred to as real semantics.
Whereas linguistic semantics, in virtue of being context-independent, does not
have truth-theoretic properties (i.e. it is not true or false with respect to any state of
affairs in the world), real semantics has truth-theoretic properties (i.e. it is true or false
with respect to some state of affairs in the world). Fundamentally, thus, the distinction
between real and linguistic semantics is made in terms of truth-theoretic properties or
lack of them, respectively. Importantly, Carston (2002: 11) also explains the linguis-
tic-real distinction in terms of two types of cognitive processes: decoding and infer-
ring. It is linguistic meaning that is decoded and it is speaker meaning that is inferred.
Related to the claim about the non-truth-theoretic nature of linguistic semantics
is RT’s claim that linguistic meaning underdetermines utterance meaning, i.e. it
underdetermines the thought/proposition communicated by a speaker. It is because
linguistic meaning is non-truth-theoretic that speaker meaning cannot be deter-
mined by linguistic decoding alone but has to be derived by pragmatic inference
(from context). RT’s linguistic underdeterminacy thesis pertains to all levels:
‘While sentences encode thought/proposition templates, words encode concept
templates; it’s linguistic underdeterminacy all the way down’ (Carston 2002: 360).
Notice that this way of expounding the underdeterminacy thesis – in terms of con-
cept templates and the non-truth-theoretic nature of linguistic semantics – already
points towards the hypothesis explicitly spelt out in Carston (2012, 2013): that lin-
guistic semantics is non-conceptual.
One of the key insights of Relevance Theory (e.g. Sperber and Wilson 1987,
Wilson and Sperber 2004) is that the inferring of speaker meaning is guided by the
3.1 
Linguistic Semantics in Relevance Theory
34
pragmatic principle of relevance. A stimulus (e.g. an utterance) is taken to be
relevant if it yields a positive cognitive effect. In other words, a stimulus is rel-
evant if it makes a difference to an individual’s representation of the world by
improving the individual’s knowledge, confirming a suspicion, settling a doubt, etc.
The central type of positive cognitive effect caused by the processing of an utterance
is a contextual implication. This is a conclusion deducible from the conjunction
of the linguistic input and the context. In general terms, the greater the positive
cognitive effect is, the greater the relevance of the stimulus.
However, construing relevance just in terms of positive cognitive effects does not
suffice. In principle, there is no limit as to how many and what sort of contextual
implications an individual may draw; there is nothing that tells the hearer which of
the many potentially relevant contextual implications is the most relevant. What
counterbalances this undesirable result is the importance of processing effort,
which is the required use of perception, memory and inference, in establishing the
most relevant conclusion. Generally, the less the processing effort is, the greater the
relevance of the stimulus. For Relevance Theory thus relevance is calculated in
terms of positive cognitive effects and processing effort. Consider the following
example, taken from Wilson and Sperber (1993).
(1) Peter took out his key and opened the door
In (1), the fact that the speaker conjoined two pieces of information (that Peter took out
his key and that he opened the door) suggests that the speaker intends these two pieces
of information to be processed together (i.e. as relevant to each other). Wilson and
Sperber (1993) argue that because encyclopaedic knowledge that to open a door one
normally uses a key is easily accessible, the interpretation that Peter used the key he took
out (referred to in the first verb phrase) to open the door (referred to in the second verb
phrase) comes readily to mind. This interpretation yields adequate cognitive effects (i.e.
it explains why Peter took out his keys or how he opened the door) with the least cogni-
tive effort (because the knowledge of how possessing keys is relevant to opening a door
is easily accessible) and is thus taken by the hearer to be the intended speaker meaning.
In the next section, I discuss problems in standard RT’s distinction between lin-
guistic and real kinds of semantic content.
3.1.1  
Relevance Theory’s Linguistic-Real Distinction
Parallel to the distinction between linguistic semantics and real semantics is RT’s
distinction between lexical and ad hoc1
concepts. Lexical concepts are elements
of the logical form decoded by the language module, whereas ad hoc concepts are
elements of the pragmatically inferable thought. By definition, the content of lexical
concepts (just like the content of the logical form which is composed by lexical
1
 The notion of ad hoc memory categories was first proposed by Barsalou (1983), for whom ad hoc
categories, unlike common categories (like birds, furniture), are not well established in memory.
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
35
concepts) does not have truth-theoretic properties. In contrast, the content of ad hoc
concepts (just like the content of the thought/proposition which is composed by ad
hoc concepts) has truth-theoretic properties. Thus, just as the decoded logical form
underdetermines the communicated thought/proposition at the sentence level, so the
decoded lexical concept underdetermines the communicated ad hoc concept at the
word level. Carston (2010: 250) suggests that the most plausible assumption is that
both lexical and ad hoc concepts are atomic in the sense of Fodor (1998).2
In the spirit of RT’s underdeterminacy thesis, Carston (e.g. 1998: 2, 2002: 360)
entertains the idea that words encode ‘concept schemas’ or ‘pointers’ to a concep-
tual space. As such, they are ‘templates’ for the construction of a fully propositional
conceptual structure. On this proposal, schematic content of concepts encoded by
linguistic expressions is juxtaposed with the real (i.e. truth-theoretic) nature of the
ad hoc concepts and thoughts/propositions they compose.
However, this radical understanding of linguistic underdeterminacy – in terms of
truth-theoretic value or lack of it – has been consistently undermined in RT. Already
in (2002: 362), Carston allows that at least some lexical concepts – for example,
natural kind concepts like CAT – are ‘full-fledged’. By this, Carston means that
some lexical concepts have truth-theoretic properties. This already undermines the
distinction between the linguistic and the real kinds of semantic content.
In fact, this problem goes deeper. Burton-Roberts (2005) observes that Carston
(2002) consistently qualifies her claim that sentences do not encode propositions,
i.e. truth-theoretic objects, by ‘seldom if ever’ or ‘almost never’. He also notes that
Sperber and Wilson (1995) allow that the decoded logical form enters into logical
relations of contradiction and therefore implication. Consider example (2) below
(discussed in Burton-Roberts 2005: 395–396).
(2) She carried it
According to Sperber and Wilson (1995), the logical form of sentence (2) (i.e.
SOME FEMALE ENTITY AT SOME POINT IN THE PAST CARRIED
SOMETHING), enters into the relation of contradiction with NO ONE EVER
CARRIED ANYTHING and thus into the relation of implication with SOMEONE
AT SOME POINT CARRIED SOMETHING.  The problem with this, Burton-­
Roberts (2005) argues, is that only propositional, i.e. truth-theoretic, forms can ever
enter into logical relations. In other words, by allowing that the decoded logical
form enters into logical relations of entailment and contradiction, Sperber and
Wilson must allow that the decoded logical form has truth-theoretic properties. This
leads Burton-Roberts (ibid.) to argue that RT’s concept schemas, which are ele-
ments of the logical form, actually are general concepts.
Burton-Roberts’ argument is further supported by Carston’s (2010: 235) obser-
vation that a ‘hearer of ‘She’s happy’ who retrieves just the proposition SOME
FEMALE PERSON IS HAPPY has not fully grasped the proposition expressed’
[my italics]. What is grasped – i.e. the linguistically encoded, ‘existentially closed’
2
 I return to this issue in Sect. 3.1.3.1.
3.1 
Linguistic Semantics in Relevance Theory
36
formula – is given the status of a proposition by Carston, contrary to RT’s underde-
terminacy thesis.
Burton-Roberts’ point is also strengthened by various claims in Carston (2010),
in particular by Carston’s (2010: 242) claim that inferred ad hoc concepts ‘may be
more specific or more general than the encoded concepts’. The problem with it is
that if concepts can be compared for specificity, they must have the same kind of
semantics. Indeed, Carston (2010: 245) makes an unambiguous statement when she
writes that (full-fledged) lexical concepts are ‘basic element[s] of the language of
thought’.
This shows that RT’s distinction between ad hoc concepts and lexical concepts in
terms of truth-theoretic value or lack of it cannot be maintained. This leads to sev-
eral problems for standard RT. The first is that if truth theoretic value or lack of it is
no longer defining of the linguistic-real distinction, it is not clear how RT still sub-
scribes to the linguistic underdeterminacy thesis. The second problem is that if
some lexical concepts are full-fledged, it is not clear that lexical concepts can actu-
ally provide linguistic ‘evidence’ for the speaker-intended interpretation. I explain
this problem in Sect. 3.1.2. The third problem is that with the truth-theoretic versus
non-truth-theoretic distinction undermined, there is no longer a principled distinc-
tion between RT’s lexical concepts and ad hoc concepts. I discuss this problem in
Sect. 3.1.3.
3.1.2  
The Problem of Linguistic ‘Evidence’
As Carston (2002: 365) puts it, encoded linguistic semantics (henceforth ‘encoded
semantics’ or ‘linguistic semantics’) provides ‘evidence (often rich and detailed
evidence, but never a complete encoding, never a proof) of the thoughts being com-
municated’. Wedgwood (2007: 666) phrases it in terms of shared content: ‘RT
notion of encoded meaning […] provides the logically necessary level of some
infallibly shared content’.
There are two ways in which linguistic semantics is supposed to be shared in
RT. The first pertains to context-independence – encoded meaning is shared across
contexts. I refer to it as cross-context shareability. The second refers to shareability
among speakers – in RT linguistic meaning is (widely) shared amongst members of
the same speech community. I refer to it as cross-speaker shareability.
Cross-context shareability allows that the (shared) encoded content be determin-
istically (i.e. necessarily, always) decoded by the linguistic system. Without the
assumption of cross-context shareability, positing the process of deterministic
decoding would be implausible. As for cross-speaker shareability, it is supposed to
help explain how mutual understanding between interlocutors, against their back-
grounds of holistic, idiosyncratic beliefs, is possible. Explaining mutual under-
standing is a huge task and encoded semantics is supposed to aid it by providing a
(relatively) stable mutual core of meaning shared by interlocutors in communica-
tion. Thus, the theoretical significance of cross-speaker shareability falls on the
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
37
assumption that it is a reliable – because shared by (almost) all speakers of a given
language – constraint on pragmatic search for the speaker intended meaning. It is in
this sense that encoded semantics functions as the linguistic ‘evidence’.
However, I argue that neither full-fledged lexical concepts nor concept schemas
can (or are necessary to) provide evidence for intended speaker meaning.
3.1.2.1  
Full-Fledged Lexical Concepts
Carston (2002, 2010) asserts that standard RT follows Fodor (1998, 2008) in assum-
ing that conceptual correlates of words are atomic, i.e. not compositionally consti-
tuted. As discussed in Chap. 2, Fodor’s atomism equals, roughly, the assumption
that all apparent logical relations and other information which is associated with a
given concept do not constitute the content of this concept. The content of a concept
is constituted by a causal relation a concept bears to things in the mind-external
world. For example, the content of an atomic concept like CAT is constituted by its
relation to cats in the mind-external world.3
Likewise, in RT, every word is taken to encode an atomic concept. For example,
the word cat encodes an atomic concept CAT. By assumption, all the bits of infor-
mation that in a cogniser’s memory may be associated with the word cat – for
instance, that cats are animals, that they are quadrupled felines, that they meow,
have whiskers, that my neighbour’s cat is called Smudge, that Smudge scratched my
neighbour last week, etc. – do not constitute the content of this concept. In other
words, all associated (logical and encyclopaedic) information is, by assumption,
non-constitutively attached to a given concept.
That said, Carston (e.g. 2002: 214, fn 31) emphasises the following difference
between Fodor’s account and RT. Fodor, she argues, endorses a code model of com-
munication whereby the concepts communicated are the same as the concepts en/
decoded. In RT, however, there is only a partial mapping between words and con-
cepts since large part of the conceptual repertoire is not lexicalised – i.e. large part
of the conceptual repertoire is populated by ad hoc concepts.4
Importantly, Carston (2010: 247) argues that ad hoc concepts are contextually
derived from such a (non-content constitutive) pool of logical and individualistic/
holistic information. This means that ad hoc concepts are constructed through per-
sonal inference and shows that Carston’s LOT (unlike Fodor’s LOT) is populated by
pragmatically (i.e. individualistically/holistically) derived full-fledged concepts.
Thus, Carston’s standard RT conceptual content (unlike Fodor’s content) is not free
3
 Fodor writes:
[…] concepts have both referents and a congeries of beliefs (etc.) in which they are embed-
ded. It’s just that, whereas the former has to do with the content of the concept, the latter has
to do with its (e.g. inferential) role in mental processes. The distinction between these is
independently motivated; content is what composes, and inferential roles and the like do
not. (Fodor 2008: 87–88)
4
 A similar claim is made by Lalumera (2009).
3.1 
Linguistic Semantics in Relevance Theory
38
from individualism/holism. This gives rise to another problem for Carston’s argu-
ment that lexical concepts provide ‘evidence’ for the speaker intended meaning.
As mentioned at the outset of this section, full-fledged lexical concepts are ex-ad
hoc concepts which underwent lexicalisation and became encoded as linguistic
meaning (Carston 2010: 244). The problem with linguistic ‘evidence’ in the case of
full-fledged lexical concepts is that if full-fledged lexical concepts are ex-ad hoc
concepts, then they have been constructed through personal inference. If that is the
case, then full-fledged lexical concepts cannot, in principle, constitute adequate
cross-speaker ‘evidence’.
In the next sub-section I look at another way in which lexical concepts have been
defined in standard RT.
3.1.2.2  Concept Schemas
Recanati (1998: 630) makes reference to Hintzman’s (1986) multiple-trace theory
of memory, which predicts that ‘[w]ords, as expression-types, do not have “mean-
ings”, over and above the collection of token-experiences they are associated with.
The only meaning which words have is that which emerges in context’. Carston
(2002: 375) also makes reference to Hintzman’s radical contextualism, but only to
reject it in favour of a more ‘conservative’ view ‘on which words do encode some-
thing, albeit something very schematic, which simply sends the system off to a
particular region in long-term memory’. The schemas that Carston talks about are,
as discussed above, one proposed type of encoded semantics. But there are
problems.
Firstly, there are fundamental questions about the cognitive function of abstract/
schematic lexical concepts and how they are acquired. Cross-context shareability
demands that encoded semantics is a context-invariant, stable ‘meaning’ of a word,
which underlies all uses of a particular word. For example, for a word like take,
encoded semantics has to underlie such uses as take money from someone = remove
something without permission, take 4 from 15 = subtract, take credit cards = accept,
take the bus = travel somewhere using a particular form of transport, take linguis-
tics at university = study, etc.5
This brief survey of different uses of the word take
shows that for encoded semantics to underlie all uses of a given word it has to be
very abstract or schematic.6
The abstract nature of lexical semantics is actually the first problem that we
encounter: Carston (2002: 364–365) herself concedes that schemas are so abstract
that they are (almost) never employed in thinking. She admits that it is quite difficult
to see how they are ever acquired if they do not play a role in thoughts and how they
become the meanings of lexical expression types.
5
 These uses were taken(!) from Cambridge Dictionaries Online.
6
 Young (2005, 2006) also criticises the notion of a concept schema; he illustrates the ‘abstractness’
problem in particular with a thorough cross-linguistic comparison of the form-concept relations for
the English word open.
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
39
This concern reveals an interesting thing: since it is only concepts, not concept
‘templates’, that are entertainable in (i.e. play a role in, are elements of) thought, it
seems that in order to have a plausible acquisition and lexicalisation account, sche-
mas/templates should preferably be general concepts. Despite these problems,
Carston (2002: 364) assumes the following.
There must be some process of abstraction, or extraction, from the particular concepts asso-
ciated with the phonological form /open/ to the more general ‘meaning’, which then func-
tions as a gateway both to the existing concepts of opening and to the materials needed to
make new OPEN* concepts which may arise in the understanding of subsequent
utterances.
However, as noted by Burton-Roberts (2007), there is a problem with the acquisi-
tion of concept schemas. Linguistic semantics is supposed to be acquired in experi-
ence and, in Carston’s terms, it provides a ‘gateway’ to the understanding of the
meaning of a word in context. It guides the hearer to the intended context-dependent
meaning of a word. However, linguistic semantics is abstracted from, and hence
presupposes prior understanding of utterances. In other words, the acquisition of
linguistic semantics is post hoc. But if the acquisition of linguistic semantics is post
hoc and presupposes prior understanding of utterances, then, in principle, decoding
linguistic semantics cannot be a necessary step in utterance interpretation.
In a nutshell, the problem is that positing concept schemas as encoded semantics
amounts to positing constructs which are either (a) impossible to acquire, since it is
impossible to employ them in thinking or (b) possible to acquire, but not necessary
in understanding an utterance. If (a), concept schemas cannot function as cross-­
context shared content. If (b), their post hoc acquisition undermines the condition
that they be necessarily (i.e. deterministically) accessed.
I will later argue that concept schemas (by which I mean general concepts) –
even when they exist – are not linguistically decoded, but pragmatically inferred. In
the meantime, I look at full-fledged lexical concepts.
It may be argued that the problems I have discussed in this section are not really
problems for standard RT. After all, Carston (2002: 365, 19–20) makes it clear that
linguistic semantics is ‘never a proof’ and that it is only ‘widely’ shared among
members of the same speech community. However, what I have discussed here does
raise the question of whether it is the case that (A) or (B):
(A) Hearer H converges (to a sufficient degree) on what speaker S communicates
because S and H share linguistic semantic content which is encoded and
therefore deterministically decoded in utterance interpretation and which
therefore constrains utterance interpretation
(B) Hearer H converges (to a sufficient degree) on what speaker S communicates
despite the non-existence of such shared linguistic semantic content
In this section, I have argued that linguistic semantic content is either impossible to
acquire or if possible, then either unnecessary in utterance interpretation (because
post hoc) or not cross-speaker shared (because constructed through personal
3.1 
Linguistic Semantics in Relevance Theory
40
inference). From what we have seen so far, RT’s distinction between real and lin-
guistic semantics cannot be made in terms of truth-theoretic value or lack of it (as
argued in Sect. 3.1.1). Neither can it be made in terms of the distinction between
holistic/individualistic content versus shared content, respectively (as argued in this
section). However, there is one more way of defining the distinction between real
and linguistic semantics in standard RT – namely, in terms of the distinction between
the cognitive processes of decoding versus inferring (as argued by Carston 2002:
11). This distinction, however, relies on RT’s conservative assumption that the cog-
nitive process of deterministic decoding of specifically linguistic semantics is a nec-
essary step in utterance interpretation. In what follows, I argue that the process of
decoding is actually redundant.
3.1.3  Redundancy of Decoding
In this section, I argue that decoding is redundant in cases of loose use, cases of so-­
called ‘concept narrowing’7
and where the communicated concept is the same as the
purportedly encoded concept, i.e. in pretty much all cases. My argument holds
regardless of whether concepts are thought to be atomic á la Fodor (1998, 2008) or
compositionally constituted.
3.1.3.1  
Atomic Content or Compositional Content?
As discussed earlier, Carston (2002, 2010) asserts that RT follows Fodor (1998,
2008) in assuming that conceptual correlates of words are atomic, i.e. not composi-
tionally constituted. In practice, however, conceptual correlates of words are often
decomposed into analytic properties in standard RT. Burton-Roberts (2005: 399)
observes that Carston (2002) sometimes decomposes lexical concepts; for example,
RAW is decomposed into NOT + COOKED. Relatedly, consider example (3) below
(taken from Carston 2002: 27).
(3) The steak is raw.
In RT, the interpretation of the utterance of (3) proceeds is two steps. First, the lin-
guistic system deterministically decodes the lexical concept RAW,8
which we can
understand as not cooked (though, by RT’s assumption, this concept is not compo-
sitionally constituted). From such linguistically decoded input, the pragmatics mod-
7
 
In RT (Carston 1996, 2002), concept narrowing and broadening are both accounted for by the
single process of concept adjustment/modulation. I use the term “narrowing” for expository
purposes.
8
 By convention, in RT lexical concepts are represented by using capitalised letters, whereas ad hoc
concepts are accompanied by asterisks (*).
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
41
ule derives the ad hoc concept RAW*, which is the concept communicated in this
particular context. Here we can understand the concept RAW* as ‘cooked but not
long enough’, but again, by assumption, this concept is atomic.
The use of the word raw in (3) exemplifies the so-called ‘loose use’ (/‘concept
broadening’), the term which subsumes metaphorical uses, hyperbolic uses or cases
in between. In such cases, the encoded lexical concept is ‘relaxed’ and a more gen-
eral ad hoc concept is pragmatically derived on its basis. Now, Carston (2002: 28)
observes that the idea that the ad hoc concept is pragmatically derived from a lexical
concept is controversial in cases like (3). This is because, the ad hoc concept RAW*
is not logically related to the lexical concept RAW. Carston’s point is that RAW*
cannot be derived from RAW because RAW* does not ‘analytically imply
[uncookedness]’.
There are two observations to be made here. First, if RAW* cannot be derived
from the lexical concept RAW, it follows that the lexical concept is only decoded to
be ‘dropped and replaced’ with a logically unrelated ad hoc concept. This is
acknowledged by Carston (2002: 28, 341, 358), who herself talks of the ‘drop and
replace’ scenario in the case of loose use. The problem is that if the lexical concept
is only decoded to be ‘dropped and replaced’, it is needlessly decoded.
The second observation is this. Carston (Carston 2002: 28) argues that the idea
that ad hoc concepts are pragmatically derived from lexical concepts is controver-
sial in the case of loose use like (3) precisely because the communicated concept
does not ‘analytically imply’ the lexical concept. From this we can deduce that there
is nothing controversial in an ad hoc concept being pragmatically derived from a
lexical concept if the ad hoc concept ‘analytically implies’ the lexical concept. The
problem is that if the ad hoc concept ‘analytically implies’ the lexical concept, then
it is, in part, compositionally constituted by it. Otherwise, it would not ‘analytically
imply’ it.
This further shows that in standard RT there is an instability about whether con-
cepts are atomic or compositional. A bigger problem for RT, however, is that the
cognitive process of decoding of lexical concepts is redundant regardless of whether
concepts are taken to be atomic or compositionally constituted. This is what I turn
to now.
3.1.3.2  
The Redundancy Problem
In standard RT (e.g. Carston 2002, 2010), the process involved in the derivation of
ad hoc concepts is the pragmatic process of concept modulation or adjustment.
For example, in the case of loose use the lexical concept is modulated/adjusted so as
to derive a more general concept. As discussed, it is acknowledged in RT that in
cases of loose use the idea of pragmatic derivation of an ad hoc concept from a lexi-
cal concept is controversial.
3.1 
Linguistic Semantics in Relevance Theory
42
Let us now apply RT’s ‘decoding plus inferring’ model to the analysis of (4) and
(5) below (taken from a random BNC9
search).
(4) When Mr. Cerezo, before his election, stood up against
successive military regimes the rightists tried to kill him.
(5) […] one of the mechanisms by which phagocytes kill intercellular
organisms is the production of reactive oxygen intermediates […].
On the assumption that RT’s model does apply here, the interpretation of the word
kill in (4) and (5) proceeds in two steps. First, a lexical concept KILL is determinis-
tically decoded (as part of the logical form) in both (4) and (5). The second step
involves the pragmatic process of modulation/adjustment of the lexical concept to a
more specific ad hoc concept – KILL* in (4) and KILL** in (5). In cases of concept
narrowing, the idea of pragmatic derivation of the ad hoc concept on the basis of the
lexical concept does not seem controversial because the pragmatically communi-
cated ad hoc concepts do entail the encoded lexical concept – i.e. the concept KILL
in both examples.
However, Burton-Roberts (2007) and Groefsema (2007) argue that the very
notion of concept adjustment or modulation is incompatible with the notion of
atomic conceptual content; if lexical concepts really are atomic, then they cannot in
principle be adjusted or modulated. Now, when RT theorists argue that ad hoc con-
cepts are formed from lexical concepts, what they mean is that ad hoc concepts are
formed from logical and encyclopaedic entries attached to lexical concepts (as dis-
cussed earlier). Since, by definition, lexical concepts are atomic and since logical
and encyclopaedic entries are in RT non-content-constitutive, i.e. they are not part
of the lexical concept, ad hoc concept formation cannot amount to the modulation
or any other sort of manipulation of the lexical concept. It can only amount to the
replacement of the posited lexical concept with another one.
The problem for RT is that if concepts are – as Carston argues – atomic, Burton-­
Roberts’/Groefsema’s criticism applies to all cases of utterance interpretation. If
that is the case, lexical concepts are always decoded only to be dropped and replaced
with ad hoc concepts, i.e. they are needlessly decoded.
However, given standard RT’s instability regarding whether concepts are atomic
or not, Burton-Roberts’/Groefsema’s criticism might be dismissed on the grounds
that it is irrelevant because RT actually allows that concepts are compositionally
constituted. I argue that the cognitive process of deterministic decoding of lexical
concepts is redundant even if concepts are taken to be compositionally constituted.
With loose uses like (3) (‘The steak is raw’) the redundancy of decoding seems
quite clear. If concepts are compositionally constituted, then the concept encoded
by the word raw is that of not being cooked, whereas the concept communicated by
the use of this word in the context of (3) is that of being cooked but not enough. In
9
 Data cited herein have been extracted from the British National Corpus Online service, managed
by Oxford University Computing Services on behalf of the BNC Consortium. All rights in the texts
cited are reserved.
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
43
line with Carston’s own argument, the communicated concept cannot be pragmati-
cally derived from the encoded lexical concept because, if something has been
cooked even for a short period of time, then it is not the case that it has not been
cooked. Thus, even on a compositional analysis, the concept of not being cooked is
needlessly decoded only to be dropped and replaced with an ad hoc concept.
The situation with concept narrowing seems less straightforward but is not less
problematic. Consider (4) and (5) again. Given the availability of a compositional
analysis in standard RT, it could be argued that in (4) and (5) the communicated ad
hoc concepts are pragmatically derived from lexical concepts because they entail
the lexical concept of causing death.10
In (4) the concept of causing death by an
intentionally acting human agent entails the concept of causing death, and so does
the concept of causing death by a chemical reaction at a cellular level in (5).
Translating this into RT’s metalanguage, the fact that the concepts KILL* and
KILL** entail KILL suggests that both can be seen as pragmatically derived from
the lexical concept KILL. Prima facie, on a compositional analysis, instances of
concept narrowing make a case for the existence of deterministically decodable
linguistic semantic content which is then pragmatically modulated to yield a more
specific concept.
However, the problem is that if KILL* is compositionally constituted by the
primitive concepts that KILL is composed by, the primitive concepts that compose
KILL have to be pragmatically derived in deriving KILL*. This means that the
structured concept KILL must be pragmatically derived (as compositional part of
KILL*), after it has been deterministically decoded. In other words, in RT the con-
cept of causing death has to be activated twice by two distinct cognitive processes.
Arguably, this makes the activation by the process of decoding redundant (espe-
cially in the light of problems discussed in Sects. 3.1.1 and 3.1.2). The point is that
if the primitive concepts that compositionally constitute a complex general concept
of causing death have to be pragmatically derived, it means that they can be prag-
matically derived; and if they can be pragmatically derived, then they do not have to
be deterministically decoded.
Consider now a case where the communicated concept is not assumed to be more
general or more specific than the purported lexical concept, but rather the same. In
RT, concept adjustment is a ‘free’ pragmatic process. This means that there is noth-
ing in the linguistic form such as to indicate that it must be carried out (Carston
2010: 242–243). Carston (ibid.) illustrates the ‘free’ nature of concept adjustment
with the use of the word dance in the following example.
(6) Children in most cultures dance spontaneously.
10
 Two brief comments are in order here. Fodor (1970) objects to the idea that the word kill can be
compositionally defined in terms of cause to die. The first point is that I assume that RT could
compositionally analyse the word kill in (4) and (5) because compositional analysis is allowed in
RT. The second point is that Fodor’s (1998, 2008) claim that the content of conceptual correlates
of words is atomic and referential cannot be maintained for the reasons discussed in Chap. 2.
3.1 
Linguistic Semantics in Relevance Theory
44
According to Carston (ibid.), the use of dance in (6) communicates a general con-
cept of dancing (i.e. a concept devoid of any particularities such as specific move-
ments). As dance also happens to encode this general concept, there is no need for
‘adjustment’ here.
The problem here is that in cases like (6), the linguistic system first deterministi-
cally decodes the encoded concept and then, on the basis of contextually available
information, the pragmatics module infers that this and no other concept is being
communicated. The point is that concept adjustment/modulation may not be
­
necessary, but perceiving that no further adjustment is required is itself a pragmatic
inference (from context). Thus, in cases like (6) one and the same concept is acti-
vated twice by two distinct processes, decoding and inferring. Because the relevant
concept has to be pragmatically inferred anyway, and because there are so many
problems with linguistic semantics, I argue that it is the process of decoding which
is redundant.
3.1.4  Interim Summary
The point I have been making so far is this. The notion of linguistic semantics is
posited in aid of saying that there is some constant semantic property of a word
which constrains the search for speaker-intended meaning. But there are compelling
arguments that linguistic semantics is a poorly defined construct (Sect. 3.1.1), which
is impossible to acquire (Sect. 3.1.2) or if possible to acquire, it is unnecessary in
utterance interpretation because post hoc and, in principle, not shared (Sect. 3.1.2).
Furthermore, the process of deterministic decoding of such content is redundant
regardless of the strength of standard RT’s commitment to Fodor’s (1998, 2008)
atomism (Sect. 3.1.3). In cases of loose use like (3) decoding is redundant; if the ad
hoc concept is logically unrelated to the lexical concept, the lexical concept cannot
constrain the search for the communicated ad hoc concept – a point acknowledged
by Carston (2002: 28). In cases of the so-called ‘concept narrowing’ and where the
purported lexical concept is the same as the communicated concept, decoding is
redundant because the concept that is decoded has to be pragmatically inferred
anyway.
As mentioned, RT’s insistence on the existence of linguistic semantics appears to
rest on cases where the communicated concept is assumed to be more specific that
the lexical concept from which it is allegedly derived. In cases like this, if linguistic
semantics existed it could constrain the search for ad hoc concepts. However, the
intuition that the ad hoc concept is logically related to a lexical concept arises only
when the a priori assumption (A) is made. In other words, an ad hoc concept like
KILL* can be seen as logically related to a lexical concept KILL only if one assumes
that a lexical concept KILL exists.
Now, it is undeniable that, for example, a specific concept of causing death by an
intentionally acting human agent (as in (4)) is logically related to a more general
concept of causing death. However, we cannot and should not (in the light of the
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
45
problems with the notion of linguistic semantics discussed so far) extrapolate from
this fact to the existence of specifically linguistic semantic level. Similarly, the
undeniable fact that the word kill in (4) and (5) is used to communicate partially
overlapping concepts, should not lead us to conclude that this overlap (the intersec-
tion) constitutes evidence for the existence of linguistic semantics.
I argue that there is no linguistic semantics (and no lexical concepts) and that
utterance interpretation is a wholly pragmatic, inferential enterprise. But if I want to
argue that, I need to face two lines of criticism; (a) If words do not have meaning in
virtue of encoding linguistic semantics as their constitutive property, then how do
they mean?; (b) If there is no linguistic semantics constraining word use and inter-
pretation, then how do we ever communicate successfully? In the next section, I
argue that the Representational Hypothesis’ (e.g. Burton-Roberts 2013) definition
of meaning-as-relation invalidates criticism (a) and that Hintzman’s (1986)
multiple-­
trace theory of memory and information retrieval invalidates (b).
3.2  
Utterance Interpretation Without Linguistic Semantics
In this section, I first introduce the notion of words as linguistic ‘pointers’ to con-
ceptual space and discuss the incompatibility of the ‘pointer’ metaphor with the
double-interface view of language. Along with the Representational Hypothesis, I
reject the double-interface view and adopt the semiotic (in the sense of Peirce)
notion of a pointer. I introduce the Representational Hypothesis and endorse its defi-
nition of meaning-as-relation (to semantic content) as well as its stance on the
nature of semantics. Finally, I argue that the mechanics of the representational
account can be implemented in terms of Hintzman’s (e.g. 1986) multiple-trace the-
ory of memory. I discuss some advantages of a wholly pragmatic, inferential account
of utterance interpretation over a two-step (i.e. decoding and inferring) model like
that of Relevance Theory’s. Finally, I discuss how my proposal links with Carston’s
(2012, 2013) claim that words encode non-conceptual, i.e. non-semantic
‘meanings’.
3.2.1  Saussurean/Chomskyan Linguistics
As discussed earlier, RT’s distinction between deterministically (i.e. necessarily,
always) decoded lexical concepts and ad hoc concepts is motivated by the tradi-
tional double-interface assumption whereby linguistic signs have meaning in virtue
of being partly constituted by semantic properties. Because in RT it is in virtue of
the decoding-inferring distinction that linguistic signs are argued to have some spe-
cifically linguistic meaning, the decoding-inferring distinction is also dictated by
the double-interface view.
3.2 
Utterance Interpretation Without Linguistic Semantics
46
However, Burton-Roberts (e.g. 2009, 2011) argues that the double-interface idea
itself is problematic and redundant. The next section places the problems with lin-
guistic semantics and lexical concepts in the context of the double-interface view of
language.
3.2.1.1  
Linguistic Semantics and the Notion of a Pointer
Fodor’s lexical-conceptual isomorphism (discussed in Sect. 3.2.1) is a very strong
version of the claim that natural languages ‘inherit’ their semantics from the seman-
tics of thought (e.g. Fodor 1998: 9). However, as argued in Chap. 2, even a brief
consideration of cross-linguistic data provides strong evidence that Fodor’s lexical-­
conceptual isomorphism is untenable (e.g. the existence of referential equivalents
such as English shallow and French peu profond). Furthermore, isomorphism is
incompatible with the following claims of Fodor’s:
English inherits its semantics from the contents of the beliefs, desires, intentions, and so
forth that it’s used to express, as per Grice and his followers. Or, if you prefer (as I think, on
balance, I do), English has no semantics. Learning English isn’t learning a theory about
what its sentences mean, it’s learning how to associate its sentences with the corresponding
thoughts. (Fodor 1998: 9)
[…] only thought has content, strictly speaking. (Fodor 2001: 2)
Quite possibly English has no semantics, some appearances to the contrary notwith-
standing. (Fodor 2008: 99)
[…] like the Loch Ness Monster, meaning is a myth. (Fodor and Pylyshyn 2015: 58)
Strictly speaking, the claim that natural language expressions ‘inherit’ their seman-
tics from the semantics of thought is incompatible with the claim that natural lan-
guage (e.g. English) expressions have no semantics at all. One has to make a choice
between these two contrary claims. In the light of problems with Fodor’s lexical-­
conceptual isomorphism (which supply an argument against the ‘inheritance’
account), it becomes necessary to consider carefully the assumption that linguistic
expressions have no semantic properties.
It is also important to notice that the same tension – regarding the ascription of
semantic properties to linguistic expressions – is present in RT (e.g. Sperber and
Wilson 1998, Carston 2002: 360). Despite positing linguistic semantics as mediat-
ing between linguistic forms and ad hoc concepts, Carston (e.g. 2002: 330, 360)
occasionally speaks of linguistic encodings as ‘pointers’ to conceptual space. This
is interesting because in the case of ‘pointers’ we are not dealing with linguistic
semantic content, but with pragmatic constraints on the processing of an utterance.
This is made clear in Carston’s discussion of Blakemore’s account of discourse
markers, quoted below.
Blakemore found that rather than making conceptual contributions to some other level
(implicatures), they [discourse markers] appear to function more like filters on, or pointers
to, the pragmatic inferences the hearer is to carry out. (Carston 2002: 160–161, my
italics)
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
47
If pointers do not make ‘conceptual contributions’ to utterance interpretation, it
means that they are not constituted by semantic/conceptual properties. In fact, even
though for Blakemore (1992) discourse markers encode procedural semantics (but
not conceptual semantics), it is not clear that Carston uses the pointer metaphor to
talk of any sort of encoding. According to Carston (2002: 360–363), it may be that
a word (p. 360) or even the lexical form (p. 361) ‘points to a conceptual region or
maps to an address (or node, or gateway, or whatever) in memory’ and that ‘this
pointing or mapping provides access to certain bundles of information’. But to
entertain the idea that it is the lexical form which ‘points’ to specific regions in
memory is to entertain the idea that linguistic expressions ‘have meaning’ without
having linguistic semantics as their constitutive property. This is to deny the ratio-
nale for positing linguistic semantics. As was the case with Fodor, the problems
with Relevance Theory’s notion of linguistic semantics suggest that the notion of a
linguistic expression as a pointer needs to be seriously considered. Interestingly,
Carston (2002: 363) thinks that this choice ‘doesn’t make much difference’ and she
in fact continues to attribute conceptual properties to words. However, Carston
(2012, 2013) seems to take a more radical stance by arguing that what (whatever)
words encode, it is ‘non-conceptual’ and ‘non-semantic’.
Significantly, Chomsky (2003: 303) too has expressed a view of linguistic
expressions as ‘pointers’ to conceptual space. Occasionally, Chomsky (e.g. 2000a:
61) has also argued that in language acquisition children ‘label’ already available
concepts, ‘with much or all of their intricacy and structure predetermined’. Whereas
the notion of words as ‘pointers to’ or ‘labels for’ concepts seems appealing (espe-
cially in the light of the problems with Fodor’s account and Relevance Theory),
there does seem to be a problem with its application on Chomskyan account.
As observed by Burton-Roberts (2007), pointers or labels, in principle, do not
have the properties of what they point to or what they label. When I point with my
finger at a tree, my finger does not partake the properties of that tree. Similarly, a
label on a bottle of wine does not have the properties of that bottle, nor of the wine.
A price label on a supermarket shelf is not the price itself, it just points at (commu-
nicates) what the price is. It does not have the properties of the price either; the
properties that a price label has can be: made of paper, made of plastic, made of
printer or ball-pen ink, perhaps even self-adhesive. Prices, on the other hand, are
clearly not made of plastic, etc., nor can they ever be self-adhesive. To have a pointer
or a label, then, is to have something other than what they point to or label.
The problem, already signposted in Sect. 2.2.4, is that if words are pointers to
conceptual space, then it is at least conceptually unnecessary to attribute to them the
properties that they point to, i.e. semantic/conceptual properties. The view of words
as pointers is thus incompatible with the double-interface view of linguistic expres-
sions as constituted by phonological and semantic properties (<pnon, sem>). One
has to make a choice between them.
I have already suggested that the problems with Fodor’s lexical-conceptual iso-
morphism and the problems with Relevance Theory’s notions of linguistic seman-
tics and lexical concepts require that the view of words as pointers be carefully
considered. Chomsky’s double-interface view of language is relevant here because,
3.2 
Utterance Interpretation Without Linguistic Semantics
48
as argued earlier, it is the double-interface claim itself that imposes the claim about
the existence of encoded semantics or linguistic ‘meaning’. Therefore, if it can be
shown that the double-interface idea itself is problematic and redundant, we have
compelling arguments to reject it along with its implications.
In fact, Burton-Roberts (e.g. 2007, 2009, 2011, 2013; Burton-Roberts and Poole
2006a, b) argues that the double-interface view of language is:
–
– unnecessary on semiotic grounds
–
– insufficient on conceptual grounds, and
–
– impossible on sortal grounds (i.e. it constitutes a category mistake)
I will now discuss Burton-Roberts’ arguments against the double-interface view of
language.
3.2.1.2  
Problems with the Double-Interface View of Language
As observed by Burton-Roberts (2011), the Chomskyan double-interface view of
language is closely tied up with the traditional, Saussurean, view of a linguistic sign.
For Saussure, a linguistic sign is composed of two parts: a sound image (phonology)
on the sound side and a concept (semantics) on the meaning side. Similarly, for
Chomsky (e.g. 2000b: 9), a linguistic expression consists of two parts: one accessed
by the sensorimotor systems [phon] and the other by the conceptual-intentional
systems [sem].
The relation that a sound image and a concept have with respect to one another
and with respect to the sign that they together make up is a part-part (i.e. mereologi-
cal) relation. The nature of the relation between the sound image and the concept is
arbitrary. This is why the concept CAT, for example, is ‘expressed’ by different
words in different languages – cat in English, gato in Spanish and kissa in Finnish.
Burton-Roberts (2013) points out that the mereological (part-part) idea is con-
ceptually insufficient to account for meaning; there is nothing in the mereological
relation itself between a sound image and a concept that distinguishes it from the
mereological relation between a bottle and a cork or a table leg and a table top.
Crucially, the mereological relation does not explain why a concept (i.e. semantics)
should be related to a sound image – it has nothing to say about meaning. Therefore,
Burton-Roberts (ibid.) argues, it was necessary for Saussure to supplement the
mereological idea with the semiotic (signifier-signified) idea; in a semiotic relation,
the sound image is a signifier and a concept is a signified.
Burton-Roberts also argues that these two ways – mereological and semiotic – of
thinking about the relation between the sound image and the concept are incompat-
ible. Whereas the mereological, part-part relation is a symmetric (two-way) relation
(the sound image is as much part of the sign as the concept is; they are co-parts), the
semiotic relation is antisymmetric and it goes from the sound image to the
concept.
Relatedly, Burton-Roberts (2009, 2011) argues that the mereological idea is
impossible for several reasons. First of all, parts in a mereological relation constitute
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
49
a separate object – just as table legs and a table top constitute a table, so a sound
image and a concept are taken to constitute a linguistic sign. In this sense, Saussurean
sign is partly constituted by what it is a sign of, i.e. a concept. However, a semiotic
relation is different in that it treats the relation between a sound image and a concept
in purely relational terms – there is no separate object constituted by the two relata.
It follows from the semiotic relation then, Burton-Roberts argues, that there is no
object constituted by the sound properties and the meaning properties.
Indeed, the mereological idea of a sign is problematic if linguistic signs are to be
‘realised’ – i.e. produced – in speech. Whereas it is plausible for a sound image to
be ‘realised’ as a sound in speech, it seems inconceivable that a concept or a combi-
nation of a sound image and concept could be realised as a sound. For example, it is
possible to ‘realise’ as a sound (i.e. to utter) a phonologically constituted object like
[nɒt], but it is impossible to ‘realise’ as a sound (i.e. to utter) the logical functor of
negation (Burton-Roberts 2007).
According to Burton-Roberts (ibid.), the reason why it is possible to produce in
speech the former but not the latter is their sortally different natures. Whereas pho-
nology (a sound image) is grounded exclusively in phonetics (i.e. it can be inter-
preted in articulatory-perceptual terms), semantics (a concept) is grounded
exclusively in conceptual-intentional terms. It is these different groundings and
their sortal (i.e. categorical) incompatibility that make it impossible for the sound
image and the concept to be combined into one object. Burton-Roberts (2011)
argues that Saussurean arbitrariness follows from the sortal incompatibility of a
sound image and a concept – any relation that holds between sortally incompatible
properties must be arbitrary (i.e. non-natural).
Now, Chomsky (e.g. 2000b) reconstructs the Saussurean view of a sign by adopt-
ing the mereological idea; lexical items are taken to be double-interface syntactic
objects constituted by phonological and semantic properties, but no semiotic rela-
tion is posited between the two kinds of properties. However, Burton-Roberts (2009,
2011) emphasises that the sortal incompatibility of phonological and semantic prop-
erties is actually acknowledged in Chomskyan linguistics by the principle of Full
Interpretation. This principle predicts that semantic properties are only interpreted
at LF, an interface between UG and the conceptual-intentional system, and phono-
logical properties are interpreted only at PF, an interface between UG and senso-
rimotor systems. As observed by Burton-Roberts (ibid.), double-interface syntactic
objects, i.e. objects constituted by phonological and semantic properties are not,
however, interpretable at any of the two interfaces. Even though double-interface
objects enter the syntactic computation, the two kinds of properties are separated at
Spell-Out to satisfy the principle of Full Interpretation. This means that words, or
linguistic items, as reconstructed in Chomskyan linguistics, i.e. as objects mereo-
logically constituted by phonological and semantic properties, are not interpretable.
The question that Burton-Roberts (ibid.) thus asks is why such double-interface
objects should be posited if it is acknowledged that the two properties are sortally
incompatible and hence mutually un-interpretable. From a methodological perspec-
tive, the question is: why posit double-interface objects only to split them?
3.2 
Utterance Interpretation Without Linguistic Semantics
50
The discussed problems with the mereological relation raise an important issue.
If words cannot be constituted by both sound and meaning properties, what are
words and what is the relation between the two kinds of properties? The answer, as
argued by Burton-Roberts (e.g. 2007), lies in the semiotic relation – an issue I turn
to now.
3.2.2  
Conventional Representation: Meaning as a Relation
to Semantics
In the previous section, I discussed Burton-Roberts’ criticism of the double-­interface
idea on the grounds that it is (i) insufficient to account for meaning in language as it
needs to be supplemented by the semiotic relation and (ii) impossible on sortal
grounds – a fact which is acknowledged in Minimalism by its need to split phono-
logical and semantic properties. A further argument of Burton-Roberts’ is that the
double-interface idea is actually unnecessary to account for meaning in language. In
order to account for meaning in language, the mereological relation has to be sup-
plemented (as it is for Saussure) by an arbitrary, i.e. non-natural, conventional,
semiotic relation, whereby the sound properties function as a signifier and the mean-
ing properties (concepts) function as a signified. Burton-Roberts argues that the
explanatory power of the semiotic relation renders the anyway problematic mereo-
logical relation conceptually unnecessary. In what follows, I concentrate on this,
perhaps the most important, criticism of the double-interface idea – the claim that it
is unnecessary. I introduce the Representational Hypothesis, a framework which is
motivated by the problems with the double-interface tradition and which develops
the semiotic idea.
Let us consider first how meaning in general arises. The first thing to observe is
that many things other than words are meaningful to us without our wanting to say
that they have semantic content. For example, a footprint on the sand ‘is meaning-
ful’ to Robinson Crusoe; it means to him that someone has been there. It is an
indexical sign, i.e. a natural sign which gives rise to meaning independently of
(communicative) intention. Even though we take the footprint to be meaningful, we
would not like to attribute any semantic content to it. The same goes for symbolic
signs, like the one in Fig. 3.1.
Fig. 3.1  National speed
limit applies
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
51
The symbolic sign ‘national speed limit applies’ does not have conceptual/
semantic properties. It ‘has meaning’ for a person A because when A is driving a
passenger car on a motorway and A sees it placed next to the road, this sign gives
rise to the thought in A’s mind that A can speed up to 70 m/h. Meaning here arises
in virtue of a semiotic relation between a physical sign with no semantic content and
a semantically/conceptually constituted thought.
I opened this chapter with the discussion of the notion of a pointer. This notion
is relevant here because the view of words as pointers to conceptual content ­suggests
a view of words as symbolic signs. The Representational Hypothesis (e.g. Burton-
Roberts and Poole 2006a, b; Burton-Roberts 2013) is a development of the idea that
utterances of linguistic expressions – i.e. sounds utilised by speakers in communi-
cating thoughts – are symbolic signs.
3.2.2.1  
The Representational Hypothesis
The Representational Hypothesis (henceforth RH) rejects Saussure’s notion of lin-
guistic sign and adopts C.S. Peirce’s notion of linguistic sign. The two notions of
linguistic sign are compared in Fig. 3.2.
As discussed earlier, for Saussure (and for Chomsky) the linguistic sign is partly
constituted by what is a sign of – i.e. semantics. This notion motivates the assump-
tion that linguistic expressions have meaning as their constitutive property (i.e. lin-
guistic semantics) and gives rise to the problems discussed in Sects. 3.1 and 3.2.1.2.
The RH develops C.S. Peirce’s notion of linguistic sign where the signifier and the
signified are in a purely semiotic relation and do not constitute (as they do in the
Saussurean and Chomskyan traditions) a separate superstructure. For Peirce and for
the RH, the linguistic sign is other than what it signifies – it is the sound utilised for
communication which is the linguistic sign (Burton-Roberts 2007, 2013).
In the RH specifically, sounds of particular languages function as symbolic signs
which are used to conventionally represent internalist conceptual/semantic con-
tent (i.e. structured thought). One of the central claims of the RH is that natural
Fig. 3.2  Saussure’s and Peirce’s notions of linguistic sign
3.2 
Utterance Interpretation Without Linguistic Semantics
52
languages are Conventional Systems for the Physical Representation of thought
(henceforth CSPRs). Significantly, the RH (e.g. Burton-Roberts and Poole 2006b)
distinguishes between the object represented (representatum)  – i.e. structured
thought – and the physical phenomena that it is represented by (representans). The
representatum (x) is generated by the Language of Thought (LOT), whereas CSPRs
define what counts as a (morpho-phonetically) well formed representans (R(x)).
The relation between x and R(x) is that of conventional representation, where
R(x) ≠ x.
In the RH, the representatum (x) is innate and invariant across the species.11
By
contrast, how it is represented (defined by particular languages/CSPRs) involves
massive variation. It is precisely because the representational relation between R(x)
and x is non-natural and conventional that different CSPRs are constituted by differ-
ent representational conventions. Figure 3.3 is a sketch of the representational archi-
tecture of mind.
In the RH, particular languages (i.e. CSPRs) are constituted by representational
conventions12
which define what counts as a well formed linguistic sign/represen-
tans (they specify what counts as an appropriate morpho-phonetic form) and medi-
ate the relation between a morpho-phonetic form and a structured concept/
representatum (they specify what counts as an appropriate representans for a given
11
 The representatum (x) can only be innate and invariant across the species in the sense that it is
generated by innate and invariant LOT (more on this shortly). I will argue in Chap. 4 that thought
itself (representatum) can only ever be holistic/individualistic.
12
 
Convention governs any relation which is not physically, logically, or in any sense naturally,
necessary.
Fig. 3.3  Representational architecture of mind (This figure was first published in Sztencel 2011)
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
53
concept).13
Thus, speakers abide by representational conventions in doing two
things: (i) constructing a symbolic representation and (ii) representing structured
concepts (thought). It is this second (ii) application of representational conventions
which is fundamentally involved in meaning and which I am concerned with.
3.2.2.2  Meaning-as-Relation
The RH’s semiotic account of the relation between sounds and conceptual struc-
tures brings with it a radical change in the understanding of what it is for a word to
mean something. In the RH, having meaning does not equal having semantic prop-
erties. Words clearly are meaningful but do not have meaning or semantics as a
constitutive property; words themselves have no conceptual attributes. Only thought
has conceptual/semantic properties.
The argument of the RH is that uttered words are symbolic signs. Like other
symbolic signs (e.g. the ‘national speed limit applies’ sign discussed earlier), and
like signs in general, words are meaningful without having semantic properties
attributed to them. In the RH (Burton-Roberts 2007, 2013), meaning and semantics
are different; however, they are related in the following way:
Meaning is not a property of anything, but a relation for someone between X (anything,
including phonetic phenomena) and what has semantic content Y (thought and only
thought).
There are three important points in this definition. First, linguistic signs (like other
signs) in and of themselves are not meaningful. They only “have”14
meaning for
someone. Second, thought is the only locus of semantic content. Linguistic signs,
like all other signs, do not have semantic properties. Third, a linguistic sign is mean-
ingful for the hearer (H) if and only if it leads H to have a thought. Meaning of any
sign lies in the relation it has to a thought in a cogniser’s mental world.
An uttered word leads H to have a thought if and only if H recognises the com-
municative intention of the speaker and H knows the representational conventions.
For illustrative purposes, let us consider again the symbolic sign ‘national speed
limit applies’ (Fig. 3.1). If a personA, who is well versed in the Highway Code, sees
a pile of ‘national speed limit applies’ road signs stack up on the side of the road, A
will not think that A can speed up to 70 m/h (or 60 m/h if A is driving a vehicle with
a trailer) because A does not recognize a communicative intention – A knows that
the pile of signs was left on the side of the road by a road maintanance crew rather
than intentionally used to communicate something. Conversely, recognizing a com-
municative intention (in virtue of understanding that a sign, which is placed on a
pole on the side of the road, has been placed there to signify something) will not
13
 I later argue that crucial to the definition of the RH’s convention is Hintzman’s (1986) multiple-
trace theory of memory, which I discuss in Sect. 3.2.3. For that reason, I cannot define RH’s con-
vention before introducing Hintzman’s model. In the meantime, conventions can be thought of in
terms of what they are for.
14
 I am using inverted commas here to emphasise that in the RH meaning is not equivalent to the
encoding of semantic properties. In the RH, linguistic signs “have” meaning insofar as they lead
cognisers to have a thought.
3.2 
Utterance Interpretation Without Linguistic Semantics
54
lead a person B to have a thought that B can speed up to 70 m/h (or 60 m/h) if B has
not learnt the Highway Code (i.e. the conventions). Thus, for a ‘national speed limit
applies’ sign to “have” meaning, three conditions must be met: (i) the sign must be
used with a communicative intention (here to speed up to 60 or 70 m/h, depending
on the context), (ii) the communicative intention must be recognised by a person,
and (iii) the person who recognizes the communicative intention must know the
relevant convention.
Coming back to linguistic signs, in the RH, linguistic signs are purely phonetic/
physical phenomena – they do not have any conceptual/semantic content. Phonetic
phenomena “have” meaning for someone, on a given occasion of use because they
give rise to particular semantically constituted thoughts (in virtue of recognising
communicative intention and invoking a representational convention).15
In Sect. 3.1.4, I suggested that my argument that there is no linguistic semantics
(and no lexical concepts) and that utterance interpretation is a wholly pragmatic,
inferential process needs to face two potential criticisms. The first was that if words
do not have meaning in virtue of encoding linguistic semantics as their constitutive
property, then words cannot have meaning. I argue that the Representational
Hypothesis’ definition of meaning-as-relation invalidates this criticism. In making
the unambiguous distinction between semantics (i.e. the content of thought and only
thought) and meaning (i.e. a relation to semantics), the RH offers a way of saying
that linguistic signs do not have/encode semantic properties, reconciling this with
the fact that uttered words are meaningful. The RH explains how linguistic signs,
like other signs, “have” meaning, i.e. lead cognisers to have a (semantically consti-
tuted) thought, without attributing the anyway problematic linguistic semantic
properties to linguistic signs.
In rejecting the notion of linguistic semantics, I reject the notion of meaning-as-­
property (henceforth meaning/semantics) which follows from the double-­interface
tradition, and endorse Burton-Roberts’ notion of meaning-as-relation (henceforth
meaning).
3.2.2.3  
Semantics in the Representational Hypothesis
In the RH, meaning in language is a relation for someone between a phonetic phe-
nomenon and semantic content (of thought); sounds are used in aid of convention-
ally representing semantic content generated by a radically internalist system which
the RH identifies as LOT.16
In the RH, talking about semantics equals talking about
thoughts and the concepts they are composed of.
15
 
The distinction between meaning and semantics is independently motivated. Burton-Roberts
(2013) argues that a thought itself may have meaning (i.e. may lead a cogniser to a further thought)
and that the meaning of a thought is different from the thought’s semantic content. I return to this
point in Chap. 6.
16
 The RH’s position is that there is LOT, but, in contrast to claims made in Fodor (1998, 2008), its
concepts have a compositional, internalist content. The arguments presented in Chap. 2 support the
RH’s position.
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
55
The RH (Burton-Roberts 2011) assumes that humans from birth have some kind
of direct but deeply subconscious access to concepts (I shall call this primary
access). It seems plausible to assume that Chomsky (2000b: 76) reports on primary
access to thought when he talks about thinking without language, thinking which is
‘hard to articulate’ (Chap. 2). The RH argues that what is acquired in acquiring a
particular language (CSPR) is another, more conscious, though indirect (because
mediated by a particular language) kind of access to concepts (secondary access);
the acquisition of a particular language allows for the activation (to be contrasted
with Fodor’s acquisition) of pre-linguistic concepts in a more or less conscious
mental life.
In the RH (e.g. Burton-Roberts 2013), concepts represented in communication
are taken to be structured. It is helpful, I think, to identify the primitive components
of such a conceptual structure as Jackendoff’s (2002) ‘quarks’ – i.e. concepts ‘inef-
fable’ in isolation.
Burton-Roberts (2011, fn 16) argues that concepts are prior to and hence inde-
pendent of language acquisition during which they are activated and accessed by
proxy (i.e. labelled by a representational label). Note that, in the RH, conceptual
‘quarks’ are posited on independent principled grounds: if sound is to function as a
sign, there must exist something it is a sign of, namely a signified, independently of
the fact of signification. In other words, that there be a concept to signify is a pre-
condition for signification (Burton-Roberts 2013).
The existence of this conceptually necessary precondition supplies another argu-
ment against the double-interface view of language and in favour of the account
proposed by the RH. Burton-Roberts (2013) observes that for Saussure concepts
exist only as constituents of linguistic signs (i.e. double-interface objects) and,
therefore, that thought is couched only in the signs of a natural language. The prob-
lem is that if concepts exist only as parts of linguistic signs, the set of concepts must
be arbitrary since signs are arbitrary. This is an extreme version of the Sapir-Whorf
hypothesis – on the Saussurean double-interface view of language, thought is com-
pletely determined by particular languages. The RH’s representational relation
between linguistic signs and concepts, in particular its unambiguous distinction
between linguistic signs and concepts, predicts that the set of entertainable con-
cepts, and so thought, is delimited by human nature. It is the secondary access to
such pre-linguistic thought that is mediated by and hence delimited by the conven-
tions of a particular language.17
In acquiring secondary access to pre-linguistic thought, one acquires a system
for conventional representation (CSPR) of thought. Acquiring such a system allows
17
 Kjøll (2009) also argues for an unambiguous distinction between words (i.e. linguistic signs) and
concepts. Kjøll’s point, however, is not that it is only concepts which have semantic content. Kjøll
argues that whereas concepts have externalist semantic content á la Fodor, words have internalist
semantic content.
3.2 
Utterance Interpretation Without Linguistic Semantics
56
for thinking/computing by proxy.18
This is possible because acquiring a particular
language allows for the labelling19
of the activated conceptual structures (i.e. mak-
ing an association between a sound and a particular structure). In this sense, a label
‘packages’ an intricate conceptual structure and gives us a short-cut to it (Burton-­
Roberts 2011). Sounds utilised by a particular language give us access to such a
‘package’ if constituent concepts are associated with another sound in that particu-
lar language (if they, too, are labelled). However, if there is no such association for
a constituent concept, we are dealing with conceptual ‘quarks’. ‘Quarks’, thus, are
‘ineffable’ in the sense that they are not labelled.
Now, compositional theories of concepts have often been criticised for not being
able to specify what such compositional content might be (e.g. Fodor 1998, Laurence
and Margolis 1999). The RH’s distinction between primary (subconscious) and sec-
ondary (more conscious) access to thought offers an explanation of why speakers of
particular languages are (often) unable to ‘define’, or represent, compositionally
constituted semantic/conceptual content. In essence, the fact that particular lan-
guages do not give us a (more conscious) access to conceptual quarks does not mean
that quarks do not exist – it only means that speakers cannot represent composi-
tional content in a particular language (c.f. Chomsky 2000b: 76). But this fact does
not necessarily preclude (as it does for Fodor) the existence of such content. From
the RH’s perspective, inability to define is an almost unavoidable consequence of
the advantage conferred by lexical ‘packaging’.
I opened this chapter with the discussion of the notion of a pointer. The RH’s
overall contribution to the discussion about linguistic pointers is the following. The
idea that linguistic signs are pointers to a conceptual space is plausible if and only
if we assume that pointing can be understood in terms of the semiotic (in the sense
of Peirce) relation of conventional representation.
The consequences of adopting the RH’s account of representation and, conse-
quently, its claim that words do not have meaning as a constitutive property are very
radical. The way in which CSPRs mediate between sounds and conceptual struc-
tures (Fig. 3.3) does not involve positing double-interface objects and, therefore, it
does not involve positing a distinction between deterministic decoding and
contextually-­
constrained inferring. This gives rise to the question of how CSPRs
mediate between acoustic events and conceptual structures. It also invites the sec-
ond criticism of the argument that there is no linguistic semantics, namely the worry
that without linguistic semantics to constrain word use and interpretation, it is dif-
ficult to explain how we ever communicate successfully. If there is no linguistic
semantics to mediate between acoustic events and conceptual structures – no ‘com-
mon core of meaning’ – cannot words, in principle, mean anything? Doesn’t utter-
18
 Thinking/computing by proxy equals using ‘the representations themselves as proxies for what
they are representations of’ (Burton-Roberts 2011). For illustration, Burton-Roberts offers a com-
parison with an arithmetical calculation with the use of pen and paper, where the calculation is
performed over conventional symbols rather than arithmetic concepts.
19
 I will say more about labelling in Sect. 3.2.3.2.
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
57
ance interpretation without linguistic semantics uninvitingly look like a
Humpty-Dumpty enterprise?
In the next section, I argue that the underlying mechanism for how CSPRs medi-
ate between sounds and structured concepts can be cashed out in terms of a multiple-­
trace theory of memory (e.g. Hintzman 1986, 1988, 2008). In the light of Hintzman’s
(1986) model, I will argue that the Humpty-Dumpty worry is unwarranted.
3.2.3  
Hintzman’s Multiple-Trace Theory of Memory
Hintzman’s (1984, 1986, 1988, 2008) multiple-trace theory offers a model of mem-
ory and information retrieval from memory. It is relevant to theories of utterance
interpretation insofar as utterance interpretation is an activity which involves the
retrieval of (relevant) information from memory. The overarching question that
Hintzman is concerned with is how abstract (generic) knowledge is related to spe-
cific (episodic) experience. Hintzman disagrees with a view (e.g. Tulving’s 2002)
that abstract, unitary representations of a category are stored in a functionally sepa-
rate generic memory system. On Hintzman’s view, generic knowledge does not
have a special status and is not stored in a functionally separate memory system, but
can be retrieved on-line from a pool of episodic memory traces, or exemplars.
Hintzman’s model has serious implications for linguistic theory as, like the RH, it
dispenses with the decoding-inferring distinction. I explain this in the remainder of
this section.
3.2.3.1  
Memory Traces and Echo Retrieval
On Hintzman’s theory, each experience, including linguistic experience is stored as
a separate memory trace. As for the question of what memory traces consist in,
Hintzman assumes that experiences are internally represented as an active configu-
ration of primitive properties. By ‘primitive properties’ Hintzman means anything
from modality-specific sensory features (e.g. basic colours and odours), simple
emotional tones, properties accessible by more than one modality (e.g. intermit-
tency, spatial location) to primitive abstract relations (e.g. before, same as).20
Similar
experiences will share certain configurations of properties. Hintzman (1986: 412)
argues that such primitive properties are distinct from the ability to ‘label’ them in
that they are not acquired through experience. Given that, I think it is not misguided
to think of Hintzman’s primitive properties as primitive concepts, or Jackendoff’s
20
 It is not clear whether Hintzman thinks of the properties as multi-modal or whether he considers
them to be some kind of a unicode, able to access and bind different modality representations. My
interpretation is that of a unicode, or multi-dimensional code, of the sort assumed by Baddeley
(2000) to be involved in integrating information in episodic long-term memory and episodic
buffer.
3.2 
Utterance Interpretation Without Linguistic Semantics
58
(2002) ‘conceptual quarks’ (i.e. concepts ineffable in isolation) and of Hintzman’s
configurations of primitive properties as ‘structured concepts’.
In a linguistic context, Hintzman’s model predicts that every communicative
event to which a person attends – such as hearing an uttered word – will leave a new
memory trace (an association between a mental representation of an acoustic event –
a word form – and a structured concept). Such a trace will co-exist in memory with
other occurrences of the same word form and associated structured concepts. Using
the ‘label’ metaphor mentioned above, we can say that there will be aggregates of
memory traces storing information about associations between a given word form,
which we may call an acoustic ‘label’,21
and structured concepts.
Hintzman (1986) distinguishes between primary memory (PM) and second-
ary memory (SM). PM is the active representation of (a record of) the current
experience and SM is a pool of largely dormant memory traces. PM and SM interact
in the following way.
The active configuration of primitive properties in PM (i.e. current experience)
constitutes a retrieval cue or probe which is sent to all traces in SM, which it
activates according to their similarity to the probe (where similarity depends on the
extent to which the traces in SM and the probe share the primitive properties). PM
then receives a single reply or echo from SM. The echo that emanates back from SM
is a pattern of most strongly activated properties and it is the echo that, for Hintzman,
corresponds to the interpretation of a word on a particular occasion of use.22
Depending on the structure of the probe, the information retrieved from SM can be
of different degrees of abstractness.
Hintzman (1986, 2008) argues that the process of echo retrieval can retrieve ‘the
essence’ of what, for example, dogs are from individual memory traces. When cued
(e.g. when asked to think of a definition of a word, or on hearing a generic state-
ment), a generic concept (i.e. a schema) of a dog can be retrieved on-line by cumula-
tive activating of all traces and cancelling out the properties that are not shared by
the traces. On this view a schema is ‘a temporary, dynamic structure that springs
into being when a retrieval cue occurs’ (Hintzman 1986: 424). The crucial point is
that the retrieval of such abstract/schematic echo  – like all instances of echo
retrieval – is necessarily context-dependent. In other words, echo retrieval can yield
‘different nuances, different levels of abstraction, or entirely different meanings of
a word by addressing different subsets of stored contextual features’ (2008: 25).
This means that on a generic use of a word the individuating properties of traces,
such as temporal and spatial location properties, will be cancelled out. The experi-
ence, Hintzman (1984: 241) remarks, will be abstract and devoid of specific details.
The crux of Hintzman’s theory is that the retrieval of such an abstract/schematic
concept does not, in any sense, happen by some default – the process underlying it
is the same as the process underlying the retrieval of more specific concepts.
21
 ‘Labelling’ is discussed in more detail Sect. 3.2.3.2.
22
 Hintzman (1986) actually uses the term ‘meaning’ to refer to occasion-specific interpretations
(retrieved echoes). To avoid confusing Hintzman’s meaning-qua-echo with meaning/semantics (or
indeed meaning-as-relation), I do not use the term ‘meaning’ in the sense of Hintzman’s echo.
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
59
This context-sensitivity follows from the nature of the probe. The probe,
Hintzman (1986: 420) emphasises, consists not only of the mental representation of
a relevant acoustic event but also of its context. The echo retrieved by such context-­
sensitive probes, i.e. a function of the particular subset of episodic traces activated
by the probe, is thus necessarily context-sensitive too, whether schematic or not.
In Hintzman’s model then there is no room for context-independent conceptual
schemas/general concepts necessarily mediating utterance understanding. The gen-
eral mechanism of echo retrieval handles cases where general concepts are retrieved
and cases where they are not retrieved. More recently, similar claims have been
made by Barsalou (e.g. 2005, 2012), who argues that abstractions are dynamically
derived temporary online constructions. Indeed, Barsalou (2005: 417) goes on to
suggest that abstraction is a skill rather than a structure; he argues that ‘what devel-
ops permanently is not a fixed summary representation, but a skill for interpreting
instances effectively and efficiently’. The Hintzman/recent Barsalou view is in
opposition to the traditional view (e.g. Barsalou 1982, Smith and Medin 1999) that
categorisation of memory traces is impossible without some sort of abstract ‘sum-
mary representation’ (which corresponds to the notion of a lexical concept).
With regards to this traditional view, Hintzman’s exemplar model MINERVA 2
has successfully simulated many findings from schema abstraction tasks (Posner
and Keele 1968). Thus, the appeal of Hintzman’s multiple-trace memory model is
that it demonstrates that both ‘episodic’ and ‘semantic’ memory processes can be
accounted for within a single memory system (Neath 1998).23
Other exemplar mod-
els, consistent with the approach adopted here, include Medin and Schaffer’s (1978)
Context Model of Classification Learning, Nosofsky’s (1986, 2014) Generalised
Context Model, Kruschke’s (1992) ALCOVE, Skousen’s Analogical Model (1989),
Stewart and Brown’s (2005) Similarity-Dissimilarity Exemplar Model, among oth-
ers. As discussed by Chandler (2017), exemplar models also receive support from
research into how categorisation behaviour is sensitive to previously retained sen-
sory details pertaining to individual experiences (e.g.Alba and Hasher 1983) as well
as sensorimotor memories of contexts of such experiences (e.g. Barsalou 1999;
Bergen 2012; Glenberg 1999).
Coming back to Hintzman’s model, the existence of general concepts (as mem-
ory traces) does not amount to the existence of linguistic semantics – memory traces
do not ‘resolve’ themselves into a schema which is then deterministically accessed
in utterance interpretation (contrary to claims made by Carston (2002: 364–365)).
The idea that both general concepts and more specific conceptual structures are
retrieved by the very same contextually-constrained process is particularly impor-
tant in the context of Relevance Theory. As mentioned, RT’s distinction between
linguistic and real semantics is cashed out in terms of two types of cognitive pro-
cesses – deterministic, context-independent decoding of linguistic meaning (whether
23
 Furthermore, there are problems with accounts positing the semantic-episodic distinction. The
most serious concerns the fundamental, but very controversial, claim that certain dissociations
(when an independent variable is affected differently by different measures) support the episodic-
semantic distinction (Neath 1998).
3.2 
Utterance Interpretation Without Linguistic Semantics
60
schematic or full-fledged) and pragmatic inferring of speaker meaning. Hintzman’s
model effectively undermines this distinction, making the process of utterance
interpretation radically contextualist and wholly pragmatic/inferential.
Before I illustrate Hintzman’s account with some examples, I discuss his notion
of ‘labelling’ in the light of the Representational Hypothesis.
3.2.3.2  
A Note on Labels
Hintzman (1986: 412) argues that what happens in so-called ‘word meaning acqui-
sition’ is establishing of a relation between an acoustic event on the one hand and a
configuration of primitive properties on the other. What is acquired is the ability to
‘label’ primitive properties. Now, Hintzman (ibid.) does not say much about the
process of acquiring this ‘labelling’ ability, but, since I intend to apply his model to
utterance interpretation, it is important to make a brief comment on that.
According to Burton-Roberts (2013), there are three conditions for an acoustic
event to be recognised as a linguistic signifier for a conceptual structure: (a) conven-
tion, (b) semiotic intention, and (c) inferentially derived recognition of (a) and (b).
These conditions are fundamental to the process by which an acoustic event comes
to function for a hearer (H) as a semiotic label in the following way.
If in a linguistic context, a relation is to be established between a given acoustic
event and some conceptual structure, H must infer that there is a relation between
the acoustic stimulus and the conceptual structure which is being currently enter-
tained in H’s mind. More specifically, H must infer that the speaker (S) produced the
acoustic stimulus with the intention of leading H to entertain a particular conceptual
structure.
For illustrative purposes, let us imagine that an infant learns to associate the
acoustic event [ph
ɛn] with a mental representation of an enclosure in which it is
often put, complex emotions it gives rise to (i.e. sometimes boredom, sometimes
happiness, sometimes fear) etc. Presumably, for the infant to learn that association,
the parents must have made the sound [ph
ɛn] more than once in the context in which
the infant could make that association, and the infant must have recognised the par-
ents’ communicative intention. Now, being able to discern the similarity of new
experiences of uses of [ph
ɛn] with old experiences means that the infant has recog-
nised/relies on a communicative convention. The point is that an acoustic event
becomes a semiotic label for a given cogniser in virtue of the cogniser’s recognition
of a communicative intention and convention experientially associated with a given
acoustic event. Once the convention is recognised (more on convention shortly),
similar memory traces will be stored under the same morpho-phonetic label. At this
stage in our scenario, a morpho-phonetic label [ph
ɛn] has multiple memory records
associated with it.
Now, records of experiences in a linguistic context are not stored under a particu-
lar morpho-phonetic label based exclusively on the morpho-phonetic properties of
the relevant acoustic event. For example, in our scenario there is an infant in whose
mind the morpho-phonetic label [ph
ɛn] has been established and is associated with
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
61
an aggregate of records of experiences with an enclosure (or enclosures). This asso-
ciation, which is bound up with the infant’s recognition (even if below the level of
consciousness) of communicative intention and convention, will influence the inter-
pretation of new experiences of uses of the morpho-phonetic label [ph
ɛn]. In the
initial stage thus, if someone is holding a writing instrument in their hand and says
to the infant that it is a pen, the infant will interpret the communicative intention in
accordance with the already established associations. For example, the infant may
think that the person wants the infant to put the object that the person is holding in
their hand in the enclosure.
Presumably, at some point the infant will come to notice inconsistency/contra-
diction in uses of [ph
ɛn]; mental representations that certain uses of [ph
ɛn] give rise
to will not be congruent (in terms of similarity of primitive properties they are com-
posed by) to those stored under the already established morpho-phonetic label
[ph
ɛn]. In simple terms, some utterances of [ph
ɛn] will not be associated with experi-
ences of an enclosure but with experiences of the action of writing or doodling. At
some stage, the infant will recognise that the communicative intention associated
with the utterances of [ph
ɛn] is different in different contexts. In recognising the dif-
ference in communicative intention, the infant will recognise the difference in com-
municative convention and, arguably, a separate aggregate of memory traces will be
established – this aggregate will share the morpho-phonetic label [ph
ɛn] with the old
one, but will be separate precisely because the memory records are not compatible
in terms of the primitive properties they are composed of.
This simple scenario illustrates the role of the recognition of communicative
intention and convention in the acquisition of what we may call the ‘labelling’ abil-
ity. It seems to me that the importance of the labelling ability is best appreciated
when considered in relation to Burton-Roberts’ (2013) argument (discussed in Sect.
3.2.2.3) that what is acquired in so-called language acquisition is no more and no
less than a particular kind of access to conceptual structures. On this account, the
establishing of a morpho-phonetic label consists in the ‘packaging’ of various intri-
cate conceptual structures in one aggregate of multiple traces and gives a short-cut
to them, allowing for faster and more efficient processing. In Sect. 3.2.3.5, I say
more about how the notion of communicative conventions construed in terms of a
multiple-trace theory of memory is different from standard models (e.g. RT) and
why, I believe, it is better. In the meantime, I discuss some advantages of a wholly
inferential account and illustrate the application of Hintzman’s wholly inferential
model to utterance interpretation with some examples.
3.2.3.3  Some Advantages of a Wholly Inferential Account
Perhaps the most straightforward advantage of a wholly inferential account is the
fact that it does not posit deterministic decoding, which is most obviously unneces-
sary in cases like (3) (The steak is raw). Given that there is no logical relation
between the alleged lexical concept of not being cooked and the communicated
concept of being cooked but not long enough, even RT must admit that here
3.2 
Utterance Interpretation Without Linguistic Semantics
62
successful communication relies solely on the power of pragmatic inference.
Consider now example (7), uttered during a phone conversation between two friends
who together attended a comedy show last week.
(7) That comedian killed me.
The information communicated by the utterance of (7) is that the comedian was
hilarious or very entertaining. Hintzman’s model predicts that the utterance of (7)
may activate the concept of being very entertaining without first activating the con-
cept of causing death.24
This is possible because the noun comedian (co-text) con-
strains the cognitive search in that it activates the theme of entertainment,25
whereas
the demonstrative that (co-text) further narrows it down to an experience which is
familiar to both the speaker and the hearer. Quite plausibly, the relevant cognitive
context is such that the hearer already knows that the speaker enjoyed the show (by
watching her reactions at the show). Furthermore, the presence of the pronoun me
in the co-text and the perceptual presence of the speaker in the situational context
exclude the possibility of the speaker having been murdered by the comedian.
It needs to be emphasised that I am arguing against deterministic decoding of a
concept which is, purportedly, associated by default (i.e. invariably) with a given
morpho-phonetic form. In other words, I allow that for some hearers the utterance
of (7) may initially activate the concept of causing death, and that the utterance of
(3) may initially activate the concept of not being cooked. Whether it does or does
not depends on many (contextual) factors. For example, it is undeniable that some
conceptual structures may be more easily accessible than others due to frequency
effects (e.g. Dąbrowska 2004: 25–27). However, the existence of frequency biased
interpretations – sometimes referred to as ‘dominant meanings’ (e.g. Gibbs 2002) or
‘attractors’ (e.g. Barsalou 2005) – does not amount to the existence of linguistic
semantics. Firstly, from the existence of attractors, it does not follow that it is lan-
guage, and not thought, which hosts them, or that it is the linguistic processes, and
not the pragmatic processes, which access them. Secondly, deterministic activation
of such attractors would not always be an efficient interpretive strategy (as I will
shortly show). Indeed, Barsalou (2005: 416) argues that various factors (e.g. contex-
tual evidence) may inhibit attractors and facilitate other interpretive strategies.
Consequently, the interpretation process remains highly dynamic even if there are
frequency-based attractors. Let me illustrate this with example (3) (The steak is
raw).
If the conversation of which (3) is part takes place among two people who often
dine together and where the hearer knows that the speaker likes his steak well done,
the utterance of (3) will most likely activate the concept of being cooked not long
enough. If, however, the hearer of (3) is a vegetarian who has heard stories about
24
 This is compatible with Gibbs’ (2002) and Hamblin & Gibbs’ (2003) observation that, given the
right context, even novel non-literal forms may be processed as quickly as or more quickly than
their literal counterparts. I return to this issue in Chap. 6.
25
 This would normally contrast with the theme activated by the expression such as the mafia boss.
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
63
people eating raw meat (e.g. steak tartare) but does not know what such dish looks
like, the utterance of (3) may initially (i.e. before clarification or further evaluation
of the context) activate the concept of not being cooked.
Consider now a scenario such that (3) is uttered in a context where on a plate is
not an English steak but steak tartare, and where the hearer, well accustomed to
English steaks, is unaware of the fact that some people do eat, and some restaurants
do serve, meat that has not been cooked. Also in this situation, the concept initially
activated in the mind of the hearer may be that of not being cooked for long enough.
If, on the other hand, the hearer is familiar with steak tartar, the concept activated in
his mind on hearing (3) in such context will most probably be that of not being
cooked.
The point is that a wholly inferential account, on which utterances are interpreted
in relation to a contextually constrained background of individualistic beliefs and
associations, allows us to explain such variations. Furthermore, it offers a more
efficient account of processing – it does not require that the irrelevant concept NOT
COOKED be decoded where there is clear contextual evidence to the contrary. At
the same time, the contextually constrained process of echo retrieval accounts for
why very often what the speaker communicates and what the hearer takes her to
communicate ‘converge’ to a sufficient26
degree. Because the process of echo
retrieval is contextually constrained, not all memory records are involved in the
derivation of the echo, only those relevant to a particular conversation in a particu-
lar context between particular interlocutors.27
Hintzman’s (e.g. 1986) contextually
constrained process of echo retrieval, combined with Burton-Roberts’ (2013) defi-
nition of meaning-as-relation, make assumption (B) – that H converges (to a suffi-
cient degree) on what S communicates despite there being no shared linguistic
semantic content – plausible.
Needless to say, a wholly inferential account abides by Occam’s Razor in cases
where the alleged lexical concept is the same as the communicated concept. As
mentioned, RT’s problem with utterances like (6) (Children in most cultures dance
spontaneously) is that the very same concept of dancing is activated by two distinct
cognitive processes – it is deterministically decoded and then it has to be pragmati-
cally inferred anyway. In contrast, Hintzman’s model predicts that, on hearing the
utterance of (6), a generic concept of dancing is retrieved because the context is
such as not to trigger the activation of a more specific concept – relevant here is the
presence of the bare nominal children and the quantifier most in the co-text. Such
generic concept does not have to be deterministically decoded first as there are
enough clues in the context to pragmatically derive it.
26
 Convergence has to be sufficient enough to co-ordinate the interlocutors’ actions, including the
very action of communicating.
27
 
This radical contextualism is compatible with arguments put forward by Bilgrami (1992).
Bilgrami’s account will be discussed in Chap. 4. Horton and Gerrig (2005) is an important devel-
opment of the point that the knowledge of one’s interlocutor places immediate constraints on utter-
ance interpretation. This is discussed in detail in Chap. 6.
3.2 
Utterance Interpretation Without Linguistic Semantics
64
Similarly, a wholly inferential model has an advantage over a two-step model of
utterance interpretation like RT in cases like (4) (When Mr. Cerezo, before his elec-
tion, stood up against successive military regimes the rightists tried to kill him) and
(5) (… one of the mechanisms by which phagocytes kill intercellular organisms is
the production of reactive oxygen intermediates), where the alleged lexical concept
is more general than the ad hoc concept purportedly derived from it. As mentioned,
the problem for standard RT is that if KILL* analytically implies, i.e. is
­
compositionally constituted by KILL, the concept KILL has to be retrieved by two
distinct cognitive processes.
In contrast, a wholly inferential model predicts that the concept of causing death
is pragmatically inferred as part of the concepts communicated by (4) and (5) with-
out being first decoded. The process of pragmatic inference is sufficient to derive
the subtleties of different concepts which are in part constituted by the concept of
causing death. These subtleties are inferable from the context of (4) and (5). In (4)
there are several aspects relevant to arriving at the intended interpretation. First of
all, the verb kill here is interpreted in the context of the co-text such as stood up
against, military regimes and the rightists. The co-text thus restricts the conceptual
search to the hearer’s knowledge of extreme political/military regimes and their
treatment of opposition. In this context, the concept of causing death by a human
agent intentionally acting upon a patient is highly relevant and thus easily accessi-
ble. In (5), the concept of causing death does not involve the concept of an inten-
tional act of a human agent, but of biochemical reactions at a cellular level. This is
inferable from the co-text (e.g. phagocytes, intercellular organisms), but the rele-
vant conceptual space may have also been activated by preceding discourse. This,
again, satisfies Occam’s Razor.
However, what is controversial about cases of the so-called ‘concept narrowing’
is that the uses of the word kill in (4) and (5), and in fact many other uses of this
word, do undeniably share ‘a common core of meaning’ – the concept of causing
death. From an RT perspective, this seems to be almost tangible evidence for the
existence of encoded semantics (if we disregard all the problems with this notion
that I have discussed so far). But is it?
I have already mentioned that instances like (4) and (5) can only be considered
as evidence for linguistic semantics if one assumes that there exists linguistic
semantics (assumption (A)). If no such assumption is made, (4) and (5) illustrate a
situation where two uses communicate distinct specific concepts which are com-
positionally constituted by the same generic concept. In terms of a multiple-trace
memory model, mental records of such uses (i.e. memory traces) are constituted
by partially overlapping properties. Thus, the intuition that (4) and (5) share some
‘common core of meaning’ arises from the partial overlap of conceptual struc-
tures; it can be explained without making the anyway problematic claim that such
an intersection is functionally independent (i.e. deterministically decoded by the
language module). Apart from all the problems discussed earlier, why else should
we not extrapolate from the existence of partially overlapping properties to the
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
65
existence of linguistic semantics? Consider (4) again, repeated here for
convenience.
(4) When Mr. Cerezo, before his election, stood up against successive military
regimes the rightists tried to kill him.
Standard RT tells us that before pragmatic processes go to work, not only does the
language module access the lexical semantic content of the words, but it also com-
positionally combines them into a logical form. Now, a wholly inferential account
predicts that the preceding discourse, situational context as well as co-text provide
sufficient evidence to constrain utterance interpretation so that by the time the
speaker utters the word kill, the cognitive space of military regimes and their ways
of dealing with opponents is activated in the mind of the hearer, allowing for a spe-
cific interpretation of this particular use. On a two-step model like RT, however, the
interpreter is assumed, by the terms of the theory, to ignore all that until the logical
form is deterministically decoded. On standard RT’s terms, the preceding discourse,
situational context and co-text come out as merely secondary ‘evidence’ with
respect to the primary evidential function of the allegedly encoded semantics.28
Importantly, a wholly inferential account is also supported by the consideration
of compositionality, a principle which is supposed to explain productivity (i.e. the
infinite expressive power) of a particular language. In the context of RT’s distinction
between lexical and ad hoc concepts, the compositionality principle should operate
at the linguistic semantic level if it is to explain productivity of language.
Accordingly, RT’s compositionality principle operates to combine the encoded
semantic content of linguistic expressions into a logical form. The resulting struc-
turally complex logical form delivered by the linguistic module serves as an input to
pragmatic processing. However, there is evidence which shows that compositional-
ity does not take place at any context-independent level.
For example, Recanati (2005) argues that the compositionality principle applies
after the pragmatic processes have done their work. In other words, pragmatic pro-
cesses do not operate ‘globally’ on a compositionally constituted ‘output of the
grammar’. The order is actually reverse to what RT predicts – pragmatic processes
are at play before the compositionality process applies. Consider (8) and (9) below
(taken from Recanati 2005).
(8) There’s a lion in the courtyard.
(9) There’s a stone lion in the courtyard.
28
 In this sense, RT weakens its own claim (e.g. Carston 2002: 99–100) that pragmatics is much
more substantially involved in meaning in language than Grice (1989) thought was the case. I
return to this point in Chap. 5.
3.2 
Utterance Interpretation Without Linguistic Semantics
66
Let us assume that (8) is to be understood as communicating that what is in the
courtyard is not a real animal but a representation, or statue, of a lion. The pragmatic
inference that leads us to interpret the word lion in the sense of a statue is often
referred to as reference transfer. In the case of (9) too, we are dealing with ref-
erence transfer – we understand that what is said to be made of stone is a representa-
tion, or statue, of a lion, not a real animal. This fact, Recanati (ibid.) argues, shows
that reference transfer must take place before the composition rule applies to the
noun-noun (stone lion) construction. The evidence is this. The interpretation that we
get for (9) is: (a representation of a lion) that is made of stone. But this interpreta-
tion is only possible if reference transfer occurs before the two expressions, stone
and lion, are combined. If, however, reference transfer applied globally, i.e. after the
compositionality process was applied at the linguistic semantic level, the interpreta-
tion we would get is: a representation of (a lion that is made of stone). The absurdity
of the result, Recanati argues, seriously undermines the view that compositionality
applies at the linguistic semantic level.
It may be argued that this criticism is not applicable to standard RT given their
underdeterminacy thesis and its emphasis on the pragmatic contribution to grasping
the proposition explicitly expressed. However, in the light of the discussed RT’s
instability about the propositional nature of logical form and truth-theoretic proper-
ties of lexical concepts (Sect. 3.1), the underdeterminacy thesis cannot be used as an
argument against Recanati’s criticism. In my opinion, what Recanati’s argument
challenges is not only the issue of compositionality at the linguistic semantic level,
but, more fundamentally, the utility of the linguistic semantic level as such.
Indeed, Recanati’s argument suggests that a much more radical underdetermi-
nacy thesis is in order. As discussed earlier, in RT, communicated thoughts are
underdetermined by linguistic signs in that linguistic semantic content by which
such signs are partly constituted needs to be pragmatically ‘enriched’ into real
semantic content. A more radical underdeterminacy thesis is offered by the RH; in
the RH, communicated thoughts are underdetermined by linguistic signs in that
linguistic signs do not have semantic properties at all; pragmatic processing (along
the lines of Hintzman, as argued earlier) gets an interpreter from a linguistic sign,
which does not have any conceptual/semantic properties, to thought – the only locus
of semantic properties.
This radical underdeterminacy thesis is related to the RH’s definition of parsing.
In the RH (e.g. Burton-Roberts and Poole 2006a, b), parsing consists in putting
something (e.g. an acoustic event) which lacks conceptual/semantic content and
structure (i.e. representans) into correspondence with something that has concep-
tual/semantic content and structure (i.e. thought), on the assumption that the rele-
vant acoustic event was produced with the intention of conventionally representing
a conceptual/semantic structure. Evidence for this conception of parsing comes
from considering so-called ‘structural ambiguity’ (Burton-Roberts and Poole
2006b); because anything that has or is a structure can only ever have one structure
(e.g. it is impossible for the Eiffel Tower to have two structures at the same time),
the possibility of ‘structural ambiguity’ (as in ‘Flying planes can be dangerous’)
shows that the linguistic sign we are dealing with does not have/is not a structure. In
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
67
the RH, ‘structural ambiguity’ arises because a CSPR allows one to parse the
structure-­
less representans in two different ways. I return to parsing at the end of
Chap. 6.
3.2.3.4  Non-conceptual Encoding
Carston (2012, 2013) argues that, whatever it is that words encode, this encoded
element must be ‘non-conceptual’, i.e. ‘non-semantic’. This point is presented most
clearly in (2012), where Carston asks the following question: ‘if words quite gener-
ally behave as if they don’t encode concepts, why maintain that they do encode
concepts?’ The challenge for a pragmatic theory, she argues, is to work out an
account of what such non-conceptual ‘meaning’ is and how it contributes to and
guides the interpretation of utterances. As for the first part of this challenge, Carston
proposes two potentially fruitful ways of research. The first is to investigate the
hypothesis that the word type ‘meaning’ corresponds to some non-conceptual
schema or template (one which is not a general concept). The second is to develop
an account along the lines of Rayo’s (2013) grab-bag model, which does not rely on
linguistic meaning and according to which ‘[w]ith each expression of the basic lexi-
con, the subject associates a ‘grab bag’ of mental items: memories, mental images,
pieces of encyclopedic information, pieces of anecdotal information, mental maps,
and so forth (2013: 648). According to Carston (2012), any of these two ways would
be better than the standard, i.e. conceptual, account of word type ‘meaning’, in that
both are consistent with the view of compositionality as a pragmatic phenomenon.
However, both of the proposed ways of developing the notion of word type ‘mean-
ing’ raise the remaining question of how interpretation progresses from the schema/
template or the rag-bag to the truth-conditional semantic content of the communi-
cated proposition.
Now, Carston (2013) argues for the first of the two proposed ways, i.e. for devel-
oping the word type ‘meaning’ in terms of ‘concept schemas’. However, if, as
argued in Carston (2012), such concept schemas are not general concepts, then,
even though such schemas might buy RT an uncompromised version of pragmatic
compositionality, it is still unclear how such schemas are acquired and whether they
are actually necessary given the post-hoc nature of their putative acquisition (see
Sect. 3.1). Why did Carston (2013) opt for the schemas/templates rather than for the
grab-bag alternative? My speculation is that the choice was determined by the fact
that the schema/template direction is consistent with the double-interface view of a
linguistic expression – to which RT has always subscribed – whereas the rag-bag
direction is inconsistent with it.
However, given the problems with the double-interface view of a linguistic
expression that I discussed in this chapter and given the many problems with the
notion of word type ‘meaning’ (as acknowledged by Carston herself), I suggest it is
time we bite the bullet and stop searching for the Loch Ness Monster. I argue that
the wholly pragmatic approach I have been developing here in terms of the
3.2 
Utterance Interpretation Without Linguistic Semantics
68
Representational Hypothesis and Hintzman’s multiple-trace theory of memory is
compatible with Rayo’s (2013) rag-bag model. If I am right in so arguing and if, as
Carston (2012) argues, the grab-bag selection process seems in keeping with the ad
hoc concept construction process in RT, then it is time to radically re-define the
notion of ‘word type’, ‘word type meaning’, ‘meaning in language’ and ‘pragmatic
inference’ in line with the Representational Hypothesis. Before I do that, however,
let me consider in some more detail the role of acquisition context and communica-
tive context in utterance interpretation.
3.2.3.5  
The Role of Acquisition Context and Communicative Context
in Utterance Interpretation
The difference between assumption (A) (there is word type ‘meaning’) and assump-
tion (B) (there is no such thing as word type ‘meaning’) amounts to the difference
in what is taken to count as ‘evidence’ in a communicative act. As discussed, in
standard RT the evidential role that context plays in the construction of communi-
cated concepts is secondary in the sense of being post-decoding. I argue that the
secondary role ascribed to contextual information follows from RT’s stand on what
is acquired in so-called ‘word type meaning’ acquisition. Let me explain this.
On the assumption that the product of ‘word type meaning’ acquisition is a
context-­
independent schema (assuming that the acquisition of such objects is pos-
sible), all contextually available information must be stripped out in the process of
acquisition. But if what is acquired is context-independent and if the role of what is
acquired is to guide future utterance interpretation, it follows that ad hoc concept
construction is fundamentally constrained by the context-independent product of
acquisition and that contextual information comes out as secondary evidence. On
such an account, the relevance of contextual information (both incoming and that
which is stored in memory) is conditional upon (i.e. preceded by and constrained
by) the activation of the context-insensitive product of acquisition. In arguing
against the notion of linguistic semantics and the deterministic process of decoding
of such content, I am arguing against the claim that contextual information plays a
merely secondary, i.e. post-decoding, evidential role.
On the account advocated here, contextual information (both incoming and
stored in memory) has a primary function in utterance interpretation. This is possi-
ble because what is acquired is not stripped of contextual information – on the con-
trary, the product of acquisition is the relation between a morpho-phonetic label and
an aggregate (c.f. Rayo’s rag-bag) of multiple memory traces, which are themselves
context-sensitive. On this account, the interpretation of acoustic stimuli is a wholly
pragmatic, inferential process of accessing a conceptual structure (or Hintzman’s
echo) via the matching of the incoming contextual information (Hintzman’s probe)
with that which is stored in memory traces. The role of the morpho-phonetic label
in the process of utterance interpretation is to constrain the process of echo retrieval
so that the incoming stimuli are matched not with any memory traces but with those
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
69
already associated with the relevant morpho-phonetic label.29
Thus, it is the exis-
tence of the morpho-phonetic label (and not of some problematic notion of lexical
concept or concept schema) that allows for fast and efficient, contextually con-
strained, processing.
3.2.3.6  Taking Stock
In Sect. 3.2.3.2, I argued, in line with Burton-Roberts (2013), that the recognition of
communicative intention and convention is essentially involved in the process
whereby a mental representation of an acoustic event becomes a label for an aggre-
gate of conceptual structures. Acquiring the relation between a morpho-phonetic
label and an aggregate of conceptual structures consists, I argue, in acquiring a com-
municative convention. Such a construal of convention is necessarily individualistic
because one of the relata is the record of individualistic experiences, but its acquisi-
tion is constrained by a cogniser’s observation of the communicative behaviour of
others in particular contexts. Furthermore, the convention is also constrained by the
H’s assessment of the convergence of the H’s interpretation with that intended by
S – presumably, the convergence is assessed based on the degree of success of
action co-ordination between S and H. The end effect is individualistic and hence
divergent associations, along the lines of Chomsky’s individualism (discussed in
Sect. 3.2.2), which play a primary evidential role (together with the incoming infor-
mation) in the derivation of interpretation which is sufficiently convergent in a par-
ticular conversational situation with that intended by S.
Burton-Roberts (2013) argues that conventions (i.e. CSPRs) license the use of
sounds as symbolic (representational) signs. In this sense, a word is defined by
Burton-Roberts as a symbolic license/rule for the use of sounds as symbolic signs.
In the light of the arguments presented in Sect. 3.2.3, I argue that a word as a license/
rule/convention is to be understood as an association between a morpho-phonetic
label and a multiple-trace aggregate in the sense of Hintzman (1986).
So let us take the stock now. On the account I am proposing, a word type is a
licence as defined above. In terms of ‘word type meaning’, there is no such thing.
We can speak of ‘meaning potential’ as referring to the aggregates of multiple-­
traces associated with a particular morpho-phonetic label (c.f. Evans 2009), but
there is no such thing as meaning of linguistic expressions.
So does the account proposed here amount to meaning eliminativism? It does
not. What is eliminated, due to its implausibility and redundancy, is the notion of a
‘word type meaning’ or meaning as a property of expression types (construed in any
way imaginable: as a lexical concept, schema, template, definition, prototype, refer-
ential atom, etc.). But meaning exists. As defined in the Representation Hypothesis,
meaning in language is a relation between an acoustic event and the (real) semantic
content of a communicated thought (the semantic content of Hintzman’s echo).
So far, I have been using the term ‘wholly pragmatic approach’ without address-
ing the need to re-define the term ‘pragmatic’. In dual-processing models (e.g.
29
 Presumably, the process is further constrained by the active cognitive background.
3.2 
Utterance Interpretation Without Linguistic Semantics
70
Sperber and Wilson 1995) pragmatic inference is a process whereby linguistic
semantic content purportedly encoded in an utterance is taken as a basic premise in
the context-dependent process of inferring the conclusion (i.e. the intended interpre-
tation). In contrast to this, the wholly pragmatic approach clearly cannot and does
not define pragmatic inference in relation to any notion of linguistic semantics or
‘word type meaning’. On the wholly pragmatic approach, pragmatic inference con-
sists in using a mental representation of an acoustic event (an utterance) in a
­
particular context – i.e. Hintzman’s probe – as a premise in an online derivation of
the conclusion – i.e. Hintzman’s echo. Thus, the difference between the dual-pro-
cessing notion of pragmatic inference and the wholly pragmatic notion of pragmatic
inference amounts to what is taken as a premise.
It must be pointed out that resonance is an automatic, fast and passive memory
process. However, it is inferential insofar as the input (Hintzman’s probe) is taken
as the premise and the output (Hintzman’s echo) as the conclusion in the context-­
dependent process of deriving what is taken to be a communicated conceptual struc-
ture. Indeed, I argue that resonance can be viewed as an inference to the most
relevant interpretation, in the sense of Sperber and Wilson (1995).
Incidentally, Urquiza (2011) suggests that the relevance-based process of lexical
concept adjustment – i.e. construction of ad hoc concepts on the basis of lexical
concepts and context – can be implemented in terms of Hintzman’s model (see
Sztencel 2012 for a criticism of this not-radical-enough position). Urquiza (2014)
calls for an eliminativist account, which is consistent with that presented in Sztencel
(2012, 2013, 2014) and here, but she equates Hintzman’s echo with the meaning of
an uttered word. Whereas I share with Urquiza my enthusiasm for Hintzman’s
model and fully agree that eliminating linguistic semantics is the way to move the
research forward, Urquiza’s equation of Hintzman’s echo with the meaning of an
uttered word and (if I understand her position correctly) her adoption of Fodorian
atomism are problematic. In essence, however, I believe that the two proposals,
mine and Urquiza’s (2014), are complementary in pointing towards the line of
research that could be dubbed Representational Relevance Theory. With regards to
the differences between Urquiza (2014) and my proposal, in Chap. 4, I discuss fur-
ther issues with Fodor’s atomism. In Chap. 6, I discuss why a clear distinction needs
to be made between semantics, i.e. the (real) semantic content of a communicated
thought on the one hand, and meaning-qua-relation on the other. There I also talk
about the consequences of adopting the wholly pragmatic approach for the explicit-­
implicit distinction.
3.3  Conclusion
I ended Chap. 2 by saying that the tension between Chomsky’s double-interface
claims (which make room for encoded semantics) and his I-assumptions (which
make no room for encoded semantics) is the leitmotif of this book. The overall con-
clusion of Chap. 3 is that this tension should be resolved by rejecting the double-­
interface view and endorsing the individualistic direction.
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
71
In particular, I have argued that the process of utterance interpretation is a wholly
pragmatic inferential process. First, I discussed the problems with standard
Relevance Theory’s notion of linguistic semantics and, more generally, ‘word type
meaning’. I then argued, in line with Burton-Roberts’ Representational Hypothesis
(e.g. 2013), that linguistic signs can “have” meaning even if one rejects the tradi-
tional double-interface view of linguistic signs and with it the traditional ­assumption
that linguistic signs have meaning in virtue of encoding linguistic semantic content.
I endorsed Burton-Roberts’ (ibid.) view of meaning-as-relation to semantic content
of thought and his representational account of the relation between sounds used by
speakers and conceptual structures represented by their use.
I argued that utterance interpretation can be successfully constrained (without
evoking the anyway problematic notion of word type meaning) by adopting
Hintzman’s (e.g. 1986) multiple-trace theory of memory and information retrieval.
Finally, I suggested that a multiple-trace model correctly predicts that contextual
information (both incoming and stored in memory) places immediate constraints on
utterance interpretation.
I argue that assumption (B) (that there is no ‘word type meaning’) is much more
plausible than (A) (that there is ‘word type meaning’) and that the information avail-
able in the context of the acquisition of a representational convention and in the
context of utterance interpretation constitutes the primary (the only) evidence for
utterance interpretation. On the view endorsed here utterance interpretation does not
proceed from what is (controversially) shared to what sufficiently converges, but
from what diverges to what sufficiently converges (see also Gärdenfors 2000, 2014;
Warglien and Gärdenfors 2013).
In the next chapter, I look at philosophical legacy in thinking about linguistic
semantics. I discuss narrow and wide kinds of mental content (e.g. Putnam 1975,
Burge 1979) and their relation to RT’s notion of linguistic semantics. In the light of
my discussion of various philosophical proposals, I maintain the RH’s claim that
there is only one kind of mental/semantic content and argue that such content is
necessarily holistic/individualistic. I argue that holism is not a problematic approach
to meaning and semantics, contrary to claims made by its opponents (e.g. Fodor and
Lepore 1992).
References
Alba, J. W., & Hasher, L. (1983). Is memory schematic? Psychological Bulletin, 93, 203–231.
Baddeley, A. (2000). The episodic buffer: A new component of working memory? Trends in
Cognitive Sciences, 4(11), 417–423.
Barsalou, L.  W. (1982). Context-independent and context-dependent information in concepts.
Memory and Cognition, 10(1), 82–93.
Barsalou, L. W. (1983). Ad hoc categories. Memory and Cognition, 11, 211–227.
Barsalou, L. W. (1999). Perceptual symbol systems. Behavioural and Brain Sciences, 22, 577–660.
References
72
Barsalou, L.W. (2005). Abstraction as dynamic interpretation in perceptual symbol systems. In
L. Gershkoff-Stowe & D. Rakison (Ed.), Building object categories (pp. 389–431). Carnegie
symposium series. Majwah: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Barsalou, L. W. (2012, July 10–12). Grounding knowledge in the brain’s modal systems. Paper
delivered at 4th UK Cognitive Linguistics Conference at King’s College London
Bergen, B. K. (2012). Louder than words. New York: Basic Books.
Bilgrami, A. (1992). Belief and meaning. Cambridge: Basil Blackwell Ltd.
Blakemore, D. (1992). Understanding utterances: An introduction to pragmatics. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Burge, T. (1979). Individualism and the mental. In P. French, et al. (Ed.), Midwest studies in phi-
losophy (Vol. 4) Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press. [Reprinted in Burge, T. (2007).
Foundations of mind (pp. 100–150). Oxford: Clarendon Press.]
Burton-Roberts, N. (2000). Where and what is phonology? A representational perspective. In
N. Burton-Roberts, P. Carr, & G. Docherty (Eds.), Phonological knowledge: Conceptual and
empirical issues (pp. 39–66). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Burton-Roberts, N. (2005). Robyn Carston on semantics, pragmatics and ‘encoding’. Journal of
Linguistics, 41, 389–407.
Burton-Roberts, N. (2007). Varieties of semantics and encoding: Negation, narrowing/loosen-
ing and numericals. In N.  Burton-Roberts (Ed.), Pragmatics (pp.  90–114). Basingstoke:
Palgrave-Macmillan.
Burton-Roberts, N. (2009). The grounding of syntax – and more. Newcastle Working Papers in
Linguistics, 15, 21–39.
Burton-Roberts, N. (2011). On the grounding of syntax and the role of phonology in human cogni-
tion. Lingua, 121(14), 2089–2102.
Burton-Roberts, N. (2013). Meaning, semantics and semiotics. In A. Capone, F. Lo Piparo, &
M. Carapezza (Eds.), Perspectives on Linguistic Pragmatics (pp. 1–22). London: Springer.
Burton-Roberts, N., & Poole, G. (2006a). Syntax vs. phonology: A representational approach to
stylistic fronting and verb-second in Icelandic. Lingua, 116, 562–600.
Burton-Roberts, N., & Poole, G. (2006b). “Virtual conceptual necessity”, feature-dissociation and
the Saussurian legacy in generative grammar. Journal of Linguistics, 42, 575–628.
Cambridge Dictionaries Online. Cambridge University Press. http://dictionary.cambridge.org.
Accessed 2 Aug 2011.
Carston, R. (1996). Enrichment and loosening: Complementary processes in deriving the proposi-
tion expressed? UCL Working Papers in Linguistics, 8, 61–88.
Carston, R. (1998). The semantics/pragmatics distinction: A view from relevance theory. UCL
Working Papers in Linguistics, 10, 1–30.
Carston, R. (2002). Thoughts and utterances: The pragmatics of explicit communication. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Carston, R. (2010). Explicit communication and ‘free’ pragmatic enrichment. In B.  Soria &
E.  Romero (Eds.), Explicit communication: Robyn Carston’s pragmatics (pp.  217–287).
Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Carston, R. (2012). Word meaning and concept expressed. The Linguistic Review, 29(4), 607–623.
Carston, R. (2013). Word meaning, what is said and explicature. In C. Penco & F. Domaneschi
(Eds.), What is said and what is not. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Chandler, S. (2017). The analogical modelling of linguistic categories. Language and Cognition,
9(1), 52–87.
Chng, S. (1999). Language, thought and literal meaning. Ph.D. thesis, University of Newcastle.
Chomsky, N. (1995). The minimalist program. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. (2000a). New horizons in the study of language and mind. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Chomsky, N. (2000b). The architecture of language. New Delhi: Oxford University Press.
Chomsky, N. (2003). Reply to Horwich. In L. M. Antony & N. Hornstein (Eds.), Chomsky and His
Critics (pp. 295–304). Malden: Blackwell.
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
73
Chomsky, N. (2007). Approaching UG from below. In U.  Sauerland & H.-M.  Gärtner (Eds.),
Interfaces + Recursion = Language?: Chomsky’s minimalism and the view from syntax-­
semantics (pp. 1–29). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Dąbrowska, E. (2004). Language, mind and brain: Some psychological and neurological con-
straints on theories of grammar. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Evans, V. (2009). How words mean: Lexical concepts, cognitive models, and meaning construc-
tion. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Fodor, J. (1970). Three reasons for not deriving “Kill” from “Cause to die”. Linguistic Inquiry,
1(4), 429–438.
Fodor, J. (1998). Concepts: Where cognitive science went wrong. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Fodor, J. (2001). Language, thought and compositionality. Mind and Language, 16, 1–15.
Fodor, J. (2008). LOT2: Language of thought revisited. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Fodor, J., & Lepore, E. (1992). Holism: A shopper’s guide. Oxford: Blackwell Publishers.
Fodor, J., & Pylyshyn, Z. (2015). Minds without Meanings: An Essay on the Content of Concepts.
Massachusetts: MIT Press.
Gärdenfors, P. (2000). Conceptual spaces: The geometry of thought. Massachusetts: MIT Press.
Gärdenfors, P. (2014). The geometry of meaning: Semantics based on conceptual spaces.
Massachusetts: MIT Press.
Gibbs, R. (2002). A new look at literal meaning in understanding what is said and implicated.
Journal of Pragmatics, 34, 457–486.
Glenberg, A. (1999). Why mental models must be embodied. In G. Rickheit & C. Habel (Eds.),
Mental models in discourse processing and reasoning (pp. 77–90).Amsterdam: North-Holland/
Elsevier.
Grice, H. P. (1989). Studies in the Way of Words. Cambridge, Mass: Harvard University Press.
Groefsema, M. (2007). Concepts and word meaning in relevance theory. In N. Burton-Roberts
(Ed.), Pragmatics (pp. 136–157). Basingstoke: Palgrave-Macmillan.
Hamblin, J. L., & Gibbs, R. (2003). Processing the meanings of what speakers say and implicate.
Discourse Processes, 35(1), 59–80.
Hintzman, D. (1984). Episodic versus semantic memory: A distinction whose time has come – and
gone? Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 7(2), 240–241.
Hintzman, D. (1986). “Schema abstraction” in a multiple trace memory model. Psychological
Review, 93, 411–428.
Hintzman, D. (1988). Judgments of frequency and recognition memory in a multiple-trace mem-
ory model. Psychological Review, 95, 528–551.
Hintzman, D. (2008). Memory from the outside, memory from the inside. In M. A. Gluck, J. R.
Anderson, & S.  M. Kosslyn (Eds.), Memory and Mind (pp.  15–30). New  York: Lawrence
Erlbaum.
Horton, W. S., & Gerrig, R. J. (2005). Conversational common ground and memory processes in
language production. Discourse Processes, 40(1), 1–35.
Jackendoff, R. (2002). Foundations of language: Brain, meaning, grammar, evolution. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Kjøll, G. (2009, October 6). Where ‘meaning’ comes from – internalism and externalism about
semantic content. Paper delivered at the CSMN-CASTL workshop on semantics at University
of Oslo.
Kruschke, J. K. (1992). ALCOVE: An exemplar-based connectionist model of category learning.
Psychological Review, 99(1), 22–44.
Lalumera, E. (2009). More than words. In P. De Prabanter & M. Kissinem (Eds.), Utterance inter-
pretation and cognitive models (pp. 75–99). Bingley: Emerald Publishers.
Laurence, S., & Margolis, E. (1999). Concepts and cognitive science. In S. Laurence & E. Margolis
(Eds.), Concepts: Core readings (pp. 3–81). Cambridge: MIT Press.
Medin, D. L., & Schaffer, M. M. (1978). Context Theory of Classification Learning. Psychological
Review, 85(3), 207–238.
References
74
Neath, I. (1998). Human memory: An introduction to research, data, and theory. Pacific Grove:
Brooks/Cole.
Nosofsky, R. M. (1986). Attention, Similarity, and the Identification-Categorization Relationship.
Journal of Experimental Psychology, 115(1), 39–57.
Nosofsky, R. M. (2014). The generalized context model: An exemplar model of classification.
In M. Pothos & A. Wills (Eds.), Formal approaches in categorizaton. New York: Cambridge
University Press.
Posner, M.  I., & Keele, S. (1968). On the genesis of abstract ideas. Journal of Experimental
Psychology, 77, 353–363.
Putnam, H. (1975). The meaning of ‘meaning’. In Philosophical papers, vol. 2: Mind language
and reality (pp. 215–271). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Rayo, A. (2013). A plea for semantic localism. Noûs, 47(4), 647–679.
Recanati, F. (1998). Pragmatics. Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy, vol. 7, (pp. 620–633).
London: Routledge.
Recanati, F. (2005). Literalism and contextualism: Some varieties. In G. Preyer & G. Peter (Eds.),
Contextualism in Philosophy. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Skousen, R. (1989). Analogical modelling of language. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic.
Smith, E., & Medin, D. (1999). The exemplar view. In E. Margolis & S. Laurence (Eds.), Concepts:
Core readings. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Sperber, D., & Wilson, D. (1987). Précis of Relevance: Communication and cognition. Behavioural
and Brain Sciences, 10, 697–754.
Sperber, D., & Wilson, D. (1995). Relevance: Communication and cognition (2nd ed.). Oxford:
Blackwell Publishers Ltd.
Sperber, D., & Wilson, D. (1998). The mapping between the mental and the public lexicon. In
P. Carruthers & J. Boucher (Eds.), Thought and Language. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Stewart, N., & Brown, G. D. A. (2005). Similarity and dissimilarity as evidence in perceptual
categorization. Journal of Mathematical Psychology, 49, 403–409.
Sztencel, M. (2011). From words to concepts. Kwartalnik Neofilologiczny, LVIII(3), 375–394.
Sztencel, M. (2012). Do we need specifically linguistic semantics? Newcastle Working Papers in
Linguistics, 18, 73–92.
Sztencel, M. (2013). Meaning in individual minds: The case of if. Ph.D. thesis, Newcastle
University.
Sztencel, M. (2014). Conditionality in individual minds: An argument for a wholly pragmatic
approach to utterance interpretation. Lingua, 152, 81–97.
The British National Corpus [Online], version 3 (BNC XML Edition), 2007. Distributed by Oxford
University Computing Services on behalf of the BNC Consortium. http://www.natcorp.ox.ac.
uk. Accessed 15 Dec 2011.
Tulving, E. (2002). Episodic memory: From mind to brain. Annual Review of Psychology, 53,
1–25.
Urquiza, C. (2011). Lexical pragmatics and memory traces. UCL Working Papers in Linguistics,
23, 47–68.
Urquiza, C. (2014). Constructing concepts and word meanings: The role of context and memory
traces. Ph.D. thesis, University College, London.
Warglien, M., & Gärdenfors, P. (2013). Semantics, conceptual spaces and the meeting of minds.
Synthese, 190(12), 2165–2193.
Wedgwood, D. (2007). Shared assumptions: semantic minimalism and RT. J Linguist, 43, 647–681.
Wilson, D., & Sperber, D. (1993). Linguistic form and relevance. Lingua, 90, 1–25.
Wilson, D., & Sperber, D. (2004). Relevance Theory. In G. Ward & L. R. Horn (Eds.), Handbook
of pragmatics (pp. 607–632). Oxford: Blackwell.
Young, D. G. (2005). Encoding and linguistic semantics. NewcastleWorking Papers in Linguistics, 11.
Young, D. G. (2006). The problem of semantic underdeterminacy: A representational approach.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Newcastle.
3  The Locus of Semantics and the Decoding-Inferring Distinction
75
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
M. Sztencel, Semantics, Pragmatics and Meaning Revisited,
Perspectives in Pragmatics, Philosophy & Psychology 17,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-69116-9_4
Chapter 4
Revisiting Holism
The quotation from Noûs, 32, Akeel Bilgrami, Why holism is harmless and necessary, 105–126,
Copyright © 1998 Wiley, is reprinted here with permission of John Wiley and Sons Inc.
In this chapter, I argue that a holistic account of mental content is inescapable and,
in fact, not as problematic as critics (especially Fodor and Lepore 1992) argue. First,
I introduce (the complexities of) the distinction between the wide and narrow kinds
of mental content and then briefly discuss the relation between various philosophi-
cal notions of mental content and Relevance Theory’s (RT) linguistic semantics.
Next, I argue that all philosophical notions of shared content, namely causal-­
externalist wide content, social-externalist wide content and non-truth-theoretic
narrow content, are problematic and that holism is the only plausible thesis about
mental content. I endorse Bilgrami’s (holistic) thesis about the unity and locality of
content. I discuss how Bigrami’s philosophy fits in with the wholly inferential
model of utterance interpretation I argued for in Chap. 3. Finally, I discuss how, in
the light of Bilgrami’s thesis and the Representational Hypothesis, we can and
should distinguish between a domain of concepts and a domain of associations
between semiotic labels and concepts.
4.1  
What Is Holism?
Most generally, the doctrine of semantic holism states that the meaning/semantics
of an expression is relative to the entire system containing it (Lepore 1999). Put dif-
ferently, semantic holism suggests that the meaning/semantics of an expression is
76
determined by its place in the network of beliefs constituting entire theories or even
a cogniser’s entire belief system (Block 1998a, Pagin 2006). Consequently, a holis-
tic meaning/semantics of an expression is dependent on ‘all or most other’ expres-
sions (Block 1995), a point I elaborate shortly.
Semantic holism may, but does not have to, be a consequence of the assumption
that there is no distinction between logical (i.e. analytic) and encyclopaedic (i.e. syn-
thetic) inferential relations (Block 1995). Fodor (1998, 2008), for example, rejects
both the analytic-synthetic distinction and semantic holism and argues for semantic
atomism. However, as argued in Sect. 2.1, Fodor’s atomism cannot be maintained.
Importantly, the rejection of both the analytic-synthetic distinction and atomism
has holism as its consequence. If there are no logical constraints on inferences
licensed by a given word, the meaning/semantics of a word is, in principle, the sum
of unlimited inferences the word may give rise to. For example, on a holistic account
of semantic content, the word cat may have the concept of my neighbour as part of
its meaning/semantics if my neighbour happens to have a cat (let us call it inference
level I). But if this is the case, then the meaning/semantics of the word cat is indi-
rectly dependent on the inferential relations that my concept of my neighbour may
enter into. For example, the meaning/semantics of cat may be indirectly dependent
on the inferential relation between MY NEIGHBOUR and OPHTHALMOLOGIST
if my neighbour is an ophthalmologist (let us call it inference level II). Given that
the concept OPHTHALMOLOGIST may licence an inference to the concept
HOSPITAL (inference level III), we see that the meaning/semantics of the word cat
is indirectly linked to the concept of hospital. When critics say that, on holistic
approaches, the meaning/semantics of a term is defined relative to entire theory or
belief system, what they have in mind is that the meaning/semantics of a word
depends on inference levels I, II and III as well as the conceptual relations which
inference level III gives rise to, and so on and so forth. Let me refer to this cross-­
relational characteristic of holistic meaning/semantics as the network effect. In
essence, the network effect manifests itself in that if meaning/semantics is depen-
dent on a cogniser’s so-called encyclopaedic knowledge, word meanings/semantics
is interdependent on many (‘all or most’) other words’ meaning/semantics.
Another consequence of rejecting the analytic-synthetic distinction (in conjunction
with rejecting atomistic accounts á la Fodor) is the lack of any objective, cross-­speaker
shared semantic content. Since people’s knowledge about what the world is like dif-
fers depending on their idiosyncratic experiences, it is very unlikely that the meaning/
semantics of any single word will ever be the same for any pair of interlocutors. For
example, the word water will be related to complex beliefs about its chemical compo-
sition in the mind of a person who is chemically informed, but not in the mind of a
person who is chemically ignorant (Bilgrami 1992). On a holistic approach thus the
meaning/semantics of any word relies on, because it is couched within, an individual’s
psychology. I will refer to this consequence of holism as the radical individualism.1
Indeed, the network effect and radical individualism contribute to what I referred to in
Chap. 3 as the ‘Humpty-Dumpty worry’; if word meaning/semantics is cross-rela-
tional and individualistic, how do speakers ever communicate successfully?
1
 The network effect and radical individualism are conceptually distinct but closely related aspects
of holism.
4  Revisiting Holism
77
4.2  
Kinds of Mental Content
In Chap. 3, I discussed the question of whether it is possible to account for mutual
understanding between interlocutors in communication without positing the level of
linguistic semantics. This question concerned the existence of context-independent
lexical concepts, purportedly shared among members of the same speech commu-
nity (e.g. Carston 2002). Now, linguists’ preoccupation with shared linguistic
semantic content has intertwined with philosophers’ interest in wide and narrow
kinds of conceptual content (e.g. Putnam 1975; Burge 1979). In this section, I intro-
duce the distinction between wide and narrow content, discuss problems related to
this distinction and their relevance to my argument that there is no linguistic
semantics.
4.2.1  
Revisiting Shareability: Wide Content and Narrow
Content
The broadest characterisation of the wide-narrow distinction is in terms of the
externalist-­
internalist distinction: wide content is defined in terms of the relation
that thoughts (and their components, i.e. concepts) bear to mind-external things and
properties, and narrow content is defined solely in terms of mind-internal concep-
tual relations (e.g. Bach 1996).
The wide-narrow distinction was introduced by Putnam (e.g. 1975), who argued
that the content of many natural kind concepts, like WATER, depends not only on a
cogniser’s internal, i.e. psychological state but also, and importantly, on what is
going on in the mind-external environment. To show this, Putnam devised a thought
experiment known as the Twin Earth experiment. In this experiment, Putnam imag-
ines a place, called Twin Earth, where everything is exactly as it is on Earth except
one thing. On Twin Earth the substance called water is not H2O but XYZ, i.e. it is
chemically composed by some other stuff. Despite this chemical difference, water
and twin-water look superficially the same, both fall from the sky and fill up rivers
and lakes, both quench thirst, both are called water, etc. Putnam argues that when a
man from the Earth (Oscar) and his Twin Earth doppelganger (twin-Oscar) both
think that water quenches thirst, they may be in identical psychological states (i.e.
identical in the narrow sense) but, because their thoughts have different (wide) con-
tents, they actually have different thoughts with different conditions of application:
one is about water quenching thirst and the other is about twin-water quenching
thirst. Putnam’s conclusion about the term water is that Oscar and twin-Oscar use
water to express different concepts, whose contents are constituted by mind-­external
things and properties. This holds regardless of the fact that, for Oscar and twin-­
Oscar, water and twin water have the same phenomenological properties (i.e. they
subjectively seem the same in terms of appearance, taste, smell, etc.).
4.2 
Kinds of Mental Content
78
There are several points about Putnam’s argument which are relevant to my dis-
cussion. Putnam defines conceptual content in relational (referential) terms – the
content of a concept is wide, i.e. it is determined by what it relates (refers) to in the
mind-external world. In doing so Putnam rejects the doctrine of psychologism, i.e.
he rejects the idea that ‘knowing the meaning of a term is just a matter of being in a
certain psychological state’ (Putnam 1975: 219). Putnam (1975: 227) famously
argues that “meanings’ just ain’t in the head’ because what is in the head – i.e. the
psychologistic/narrow  – fails to account for varying contexts (e.g. H2O versus
XYZ). Now, when Putnam (e.g. 1975: 221) talks of narrow psychological states, he
means psychological states which are independent of the mind-external environ-
ment in a (methodological) solipsist sense (see Sect. 2.1). Putnam’s narrow-wide
distinction is thus a distinction between internalist and externalist notions of con-
ceptual content and as such its legacy is evident today in the Chomsky-Fodor debate
(discussed in Chap. 2).
Putnam’s criticism was directed at the privacy or non-publicity of word meaning/
semantics; for Putnam, meaning/semantics cannot be ‘in the head’ precisely because
it is (has to be) publicly available for the purposes of communication. The Twin
Earth experiment was designed to show that the relational wide content, unlike the
narrow content, is sufficiently fine-grained to account for context variability (i.e. it
co-varies with the context). Relational wide content is supposed to be publicly
available in that it is dependent on the mind-external objective reality.
Another idea introduced by Putnam (1975) with respect to the public availability
of meaning/semantics was the socio-linguistic hypothesis about the division of lin-
guistic labour. Putnam (1975: 228) argued that the meaning/semantics of words is
crucially social in character – it is ‘possessed by the collective linguistic body, even
though [it is] not possessed by each individual member of the body’.2
The ‘division
of labour’ manifests itself in the fact that in order to establish the meaning/seman-
tics of a word we often (need to) rely on the judgement of ‘expert’ speakers, where
expert speakers are those members of a speech community who have acquired ‘cor-
rect’ – in the expert’s sense – conditions for the application of a given word. For
example, a ‘correct’ condition for the application of the word water (on Earth) is
that water applies to H2O.
In this context, Putnam discusses his own incomplete grasp of the words elm and
beech. Putnam observes that his concepts of elm and beech are exactly the same, i.e.
what he knows about elms and beeches does not make it possible for him to distin-
guish between the two kinds of trees. Because – in fact – it is known that these two
words have different meanings/semantics, Putnam (1975: 226) argues that what is
in his mind cannot be identified as the meanings/semantics of elm and beach
­
respectively. Based on this observation, Putnam concludes that meanings/semantics
cannot be equated with someone’s idiolect but are determined by the conventions of
public language, which in turn are determined by deference to experts. This is
another sense, on top of the relational sense discussed above, in which meaning/
2
 Actually, the assumption that ‘meanings’ are not possessed by each individual shows that they are
not collectively shared. I discuss this point further in Sect. 4.3.3.
4  Revisiting Holism
79
semantics is publicly (i.e. objectively) available and another sense in which content
is thought to be wide, i.e. determined by factors which are independent of an indi-
vidual mind.
Relational wide content, which is individuated by causal co-variances in the
mind-external environment, can be referred to as causal-externalist content,
whereas social wide content, which is ‘the sociolinguistic state of the collective
linguistic body to which the speaker belongs’ (Putnam 1975: 229) can be referred to
as social-externalist content.3
Putnam’s social-externalist conception of meaning/semantics was developed by
Burge (1979), who argued that meaning/semantics is individuated accordingly with
some community norms. To show this, Burge devised a thought experiment where
a man called Al believes that the word arthritis refers to a disease affecting joints
(which is ‘correct’ in the expert’s sense) as well as muscles (which is ‘incorrect’, i.e.
not what experts mean by this word) and that he has developed arthritis in his thigh.
Now, Cal – Al’s Twin Earth doppelganger – also believes that arthritis is a disease
of joints and muscles, but unlike in Al’s speech community, in Cal’s Twin Earth
speech community the word arthritis is in fact used by experts to refer to a disease
affecting both joints and muscles. Burge argues that even though both Al and Cal
believe that arthritis is a disease of muscles, Al’s belief is false whereas Cal’s belief
is true. This shows, Burge (1979: 106) continues, that what Al and Cal believe is
different and therefore that the content of their beliefs is partly a matter of external
social environment. The crux of Burge’s argument is that the ‘misuse’ of the word
arthritis by Al can only be properly explained when we assume the existence of
meaning/semantics constituted by community norms, i.e. social-externalist wide
content; Burge claims that without such a norm, it would be impossible to know that
Al has misused the term but Cal applied it correctly.
The interesting difference between the two types of wide content is the follow-
ing. The social-externalist enterprise, through its overt reference to a speech com-
munity, seems primarily interested in the stability of concepts qua linguistic objects
and their role in the explanation of ‘correct’ (Cal’s) and ‘incorrect’ (Al’s) linguistic
behaviour. The causal-externalist content, however, especially as presented by
Fodor (1998, 2008), is a much stronger thesis which has been developed to allow for
mental generalisations across human species and across slices of time in a cognitive
development of one person.4
Differences apart, we can nevertheless see that both
types of wide content have been devised with some notion of shareability in mind
(more on shareability shortly).
As for the notion of narrow content, it has been developed in two ways: it can be
described as a function from context to wide content (as in Perry 1977) or it can be
defined in terms of a conceptual role, i.e. in terms of a concept’s inferential connec-
tions with other concepts (as in Block 1986).
3
 This terminology is borrowed from Bilgrami (1992).
4
 In fact, Putnam’s narrow-wide distinction was designed as a thesis about the content of linguistic
expressions and was only subsequently employed in theories of concepts as such (as argued by
Brown 2011).
4.2 
Kinds of Mental Content
80
On the first (Perry’s) characterisation, the narrow-wide distinction parallels the
distinction between content which has no truth-theoretic properties, and that which
has truth-theoretic properties, respectively (Recanati 1993: 66). Accordingly, Perry
(1977) argues that narrow content, which can be entertained, is to be characterised
as an incomplete thought (or sense), whereas wide content, which can be appre-
hended, is a complete (and thus truth-evaluable) thought. Different thoughts (differ-
ent wide contents) may be apprehended in different contexts by entertaining the
same narrow content (or sense), and conversely, the same thought (the same wide
content) may be apprehended by entertaining different senses. For example,5
the
narrow content of ‘My pants are on fire’, when entertained on a particular occasion
by Paul, gives rise to the thought that Paul’s pants are on fire. But the same narrow
content entertained on a particular occasion by Fred gives rise to the thought that
Fred’s pants are on fire. Conversely, both Paul and Fred can apprehend the thought
that Paul’s pants are on fire by entertaining different narrow contents: ‘My pants are
on fire’ and ‘His pants are on fire’, respectively. The way in which non-truth-­
theoretic narrow content plays a role in the commonsense explanation of behaviour
is illustrated by Perry with the following scenario.
When you and I entertain the sense of “A bear is about to attack me,” we behave similarly.
We both roll up in a ball and try to be as still as possible. Different thoughts apprehended,
same sense entertained, same behavior. When you and I both apprehend the thought that I
am about to be attacked by a bear, we behave differently. I roll up in a ball, you run to get
help. Same thought apprehended, different sense entertained, different behavior. (Perry
1977)
A similar scenario can be envisaged for Recanati’s example. The identity of narrow
content of ‘My pants are on fire’ makes Paul and Fred behave in the same way (both
run around in frenzy), whereas the difference in narrow content (‘My pants are on
fire’ entertained by Paul and ‘His pants are on fire’ entertained by Fred) makes them
behave in different ways (Paul runs around in frenzy, Fred throws a blanket over
Paul). According to Perry (1977), it is the non-truth-theoretic narrow content
(sense), and not the truth-theoretic thought apprehended, which is tied to human
action and thus implicated in explaining and predicting actions.6
Importantly, when
narrow content is construed as a function from context to wide content, it is narrow
content – rather than wide content – which is tied to linguistic expressions in a sta-
ble way. On this characterisation, wide content is unstable (or fine-grained) as it
changes depending on contextual co-variances. Thus, the implications that Perry’s
distinction has for the notion of linguistic semantics contradict those made by
Putnam’s distinction.
Significantly, the non-truth-theoretic narrow content may also be seen as a
schema. Recanati (1993: 209) observes that narrow content of a thought episode can
5
 These examples are taken from Recanati (1993: 66).
6
 Perry’s argument cannot be maintained. If I entertain the same narrow content ‘His pants are on
fire’ but apprehend different thoughts about (a) Mark, who’s my friend, and (b) Tom, who I hold a
grudge against, I may rush to help Mark but laugh at Tom. In this example, it is Perry’s wide con-
tent, thus, that explains my differing actions.
4  Revisiting Holism
81
be characterised as ‘not a complete representation, but a schema whose contextual
enrichment yields a complete representation’; narrow content is ‘what we get when
we abstract from the ‘objective’ component contributed by the environment’. As a
schema, narrow content is non-truth-theoretic because it is stripped of contextual
detail. In other words, it is not ‘fully representational’ (Recanati 1993: 210).7
On the second (Block’s) characterisation, narrow content is construed in terms of
inferential roles that a concept has in a cogniser’s mental life. Block (1998b)
observes that an inferential role theorist has the option of constraining a set of infer-
ences in which a given concept participates so as to distinguish between content-­
constitutive and non-content constitutive connections and argue that narrow content
is molecular  – i.e. it consists in logical (analytic) relations (e.g. Block 1986).
However, the main challenge for the molecular approach to narrow content is to find
a non-arbitrary way to distinguish a determinate narrow content for each concept
(Bach 1996, Fodor 1998) – a criticism I agree with.
The other option, endorsed by Block (1995) is to argue that the narrow-wide
distinction is a distinction between holistic (private, individualistic) content and
shared (causal or social) externalist content, respectively. I return to this proposal in
Sect. 4.3.1.
When discussing shareability of linguistic semantic content (Chap. 3), I distin-
guished two ways in which such content is supposed to be shared: across speakers
and across contexts. The kind of shareability invoked by the notions of social-­
externalist and causal-externalist wide content corresponds to this linguistic sense
of shareability qua stability or sameness across speakers and across contexts.
Crucially, however, it does not apply to Perry’s notion of wide content, as for Perry
wide content changes depending on contextual co-variances (e.g. ‘My pants are on
fire’ uttered by Paul versus Fred). This gives rise to the question of whether the
notion of shareability qua speaker and context stability or sameness is defining of
the wide content.
In fact, it is not. There is another – more fundamental – kind of shareability
involved in the philosophical notion of wide content. It is the sense of shareability
qua non-privacy or public availability of mental content to other individuals. Indeed,
Putnam’s (1975) wide-narrow distinction was devised in order to explain how
meaning/semantics is (has to be) non-private but publicly available for the purposes
of communication. The notion of wide content is not as much about stability (though
compatible with it), as it is about non-privacy afforded by what is mind-external.
Causal-externalist content is supposed to be publicly available in that it is, by defini-
tion, constituted by relations to the mind-external objective reality. Social-externalist
wide content is supposed to be publicly available because it is, by definition, deter-
mined by the conventions of public language, which in turn are determined by def-
7
 
Whereas schemas are context-independent, they do not seem to be independent of the mind-
external environment since schemas are, presumably, acquired in experience (see Sect. 3.1). In this
context, it is interesting to consider Bach’s (1996) comment that one challenge for the proponents
of narrow content is to ‘specify narrow contents informatively, rather than by abstraction from
wide contents’.
4.2 
Kinds of Mental Content
82
erence to experts. Perry’s wide content is supposed to be publicly available because,
by definition, it depends on (and thus varies with) context. What these three notions
of wide content have in common is that, regardless of the issue of stability, they are
all shared in the sense that they are publicly available because in one way or another
dependent on the mind-external objective reality. Therefore, it is the notion of share-
ability qua public availability, and not qua stability, that distinguishes wide content
from narrow content.
The point that shareability qua stability is not defining of wide content is best
illustrated by the following quote from Block (1998b):
According to the external factor, ‘Superman flies’ and ‘Clark Kent flies’ are semantically
the same since Superman = Clark Kent; the internal factor is what distinguishes them. But
the internal factor counts ‘Water is more greenish than bluish’ as semantically the same in
my mouth as in the mouth of my twin on Twin Earth. In this case, it is the external factor
that distinguishes them.
Wide content in the Superman = Clark Kent scenario can be referred to as coarse-­
grained wide content, whereas wide content in the Twin Earth scenario can be
referred to as fine-grained wide content (see e.g. Fodor and Lepore 1992: 169).
Whereas coarse-grained wide content is stable, fine-grained wide content changes
with contextual co-variances, of which the Twin Earth scenario is a rather extreme
example.
Indeed, the fact that narrow content can also be shared/stable (with the exception
of holistic narrow content) shows that shareability qua stability cannot be defining
of wide content.
In the next section, I look at the relation between various kinds of mental content
posited by philosophers and RT’s notions of linguistic semantics and real
semantics.
4.2.2  
Philosophical Legacy in Relevance Theory’s Notions
of Content
The relation between different philosophical ways of thinking about mental content
and the pursuit of linguistic semantics seems to rest crucially on the issue of share-
ability qua (speaker and context) stability. We have seen that all philosophical
notions of mental content, except for holistic narrow content, can be characterised
in terms of the notion of shareability qua stability. For this reason, it is perhaps no
surprise that the notion of linguistic semantics has been characterised in terms of
every kind of mental content which philosophers have argued to be shared/stable. In
fact, when approached from a philosophical perspective, it transpires that, histori-
cally, Relevance Theory’s notion of linguistic semantics has been characterised in
terms of (a) causal-externalist wide content, (b) social-externalist wide content and
(c)–(d) two sub-types of non-truth-theoretic narrow content. These different charac-
terisations represent (inexorable, I think) steps in the evolution of relevance theo-
retic thinking about linguistic semantics/meaning.
4  Revisiting Holism
83
As already mentioned (Sect. 3.1), Relevance Theory’s distinction between lin-
guistic semantics and real semantics was originally characterised in terms of a truth-­
theoretic value or lack of it. Now, at the level of a lexical concept, non-truth-theoretic
linguistic semantic content may take the form of a logical entry, which is a set of
internalist deductive rules8
or a schema. The non-truth-theoretic linguistic content
constituted by analytic relations is compatible with the notion of non-truth-theoretic
narrow content insofar as it is, by definition, not dependent on and hence non-­
representational (in Fodor’s sense of representational, Sect. 2.1) of the mind-­
external environment. Standard RT’s characterisation of linguistic semantics in
terms of logical relations can be found in Carston (e.g. 2002: 9). As for schematic
non-truth-theoretic narrow content, RT’s lexical schemas Carston (e.g. 2002: 375,
2013) perfectly match Recanati’s (1993: 209) definition of narrow content in terms
of an object ‘whose contextual enrichment yields a complete representation’.
However, as argued in Sect. 3.1, there has been an instability in RT as to whether
linguistic semantics is truth-theoretic or not. Thus, Carston (2010) proposes that
many lexical concepts are ex full-fledged concepts – by assumption, concepts with
Fodor’s (1998, 2008) referential content (Sect. 3.1). Carston’s reference to Fodor is
important because, if full-fledged lexical concepts are defined in terms of Fodor’s
concepts, then linguistic semantics is defined in yet another – this time – causal-­
externalist terms. Another type of externalist content, this time social-externalist
content is present in Sperber and Wilson’s (1998) reference to ‘meanings’ which are
‘encodable in the public language’ and Carston’s (e.g. 2002: 18) reference to con-
cepts encoded in ‘the public language system’.
This brief survey reveals that RT theorists, in their project of defining linguistic
semantics/meaning, have been concerned with shareability qua stability. From this
shareability qua stability perspective, Perry’s notion of wide content is not good
enough a candidate for linguistic semantics/meaning precisely because it is not
stable across contexts. However, Perry’s characterisation of the narrow-wide dis-
tinction seems to underlie the Relevance Theory’s distinction between shared (non-­
truth-­
theoretic) linguistic semantics and (truth-theoretic) real semantics (Sect. 2.1).
Now, when theories of communication use wide content, they do so for two pur-
poses. The first is that of playing part in the explanation of utterance interpretation
and the second is that of having a role in the explanation of word meaning/semantics
acquisition. In principle, the two processes, of word meaning/semantics acquisition
and utterance interpretation, are inter-dependent – how one interprets utterances
depends in part on what word meaning/semantics one has acquired. Ideally, thus,
we should be able to explain the two processes with just one notion of content.
There is, however, a methodological assumption that makes the two processes
­
different – whereas both word meaning/semantics acquisition and utterance inter-
pretation take place in context, on traditional approaches (e.g. Relevance Theory)
the product of word meaning/semantics acquisition is context-independent. In other
words, whatever is acquired is not only acquired in a variety of circumstances (in
context), but it is also an abstraction from this variety of circumstances (abstraction
8
 This holds on the assumption of the analytic-synthetic distinction.
4.2 
Kinds of Mental Content
84
from context). Only coarse-grained wide content fits such an approach to word
meaning/semantics acquisition.
However, arguably, the discrepancy between coarse-grained and fine-grained
perspectives on wide content may merely be epiphenomenal of the dubious method-
ological assumption that there exists some shared/stable content which is abstracted
from contextual co-variances. This methodological assumption gives rise to two
problems.
The first problem – already discussed in Chap. 3, is that it imposes a non-uniform
and paradoxical explanation of word meaning/semantics acquisition and utterance
interpretation where contextual co-variances are ignored in acquisition only to
become significant in utterance interpretation. Perry’s definition of wide content,
and thus the content’s public availability in terms of context dependence is impor-
tant because it draws attention to the ‘evidential’ role of (public availability in terms
of) the context, which is variable and dynamic. It thus supports my argument (Sect.
3.2.3.5) that contextual information (both incoming and stored in secondary mem-
ory) plays the primary evidential role in utterance interpretation.9
I return to this
point in Sect. 4.4.
The second problem is this. If the notion of shared/stable content is dubious (as
argued in Chap. 3) and if Perry’s wide content is publicly available in terms of its
context-dependence, why insist on shareability-qua-stability? One reason may be
that even though the fine-grained wide content may be publicly available because it
is sensitive to mind-external co-variances relative to which its truth can be evalu-
ated, for RT it must at the same time be individualistic because it is constructed
through personal inference – it is the ‘real’ semantics. So the problem may be that
to argue that a semantics is both public and private seems inconsistent. Now, I will
later argue that the private-public ‘inconsistency’ involved in the notion of fine-­
grained wide content is (in a way that will become clear in Sect. 4.4) unavoidable.
Indeed, it seems to follow from Perry’s characterisation of wide content: if, as Perry
argues, narrow content is a function from context to wide content, then wide content
is derived on the basis of (private) narrow content and (publicly available) context.
However, the problem I have with Perry’s and RT’s accounts is that they assume two
kinds of content. Notice that if Perry’s notion of wide content (i.e. content which is
publicly available in virtue of its context-sensitivity) can be applied to holistic con-
tent, no other notion of content seems necessary. I return to this point in Sect. 4.4.
In Chap. 3, I argued that, from a linguistic perspective, the notion of shared/stable
content – i.e. linguistic semantics – is problematic and unnecessary to account for
meaning in language. In the next section, I argue that, also from a philosophical per-
spective, the notions of shared/stable content – i.e. non-truth-theoretic narrow con-
tent, causal- and social-externalist wide content – are problematic. I argue that holism
is the only plausible account of mental content and show that the problems envisaged
for holism by its opponents (e.g. Fodor and Lepore 1992) do not actually arise.
9
 Even though I endorse the idea of public availability in terms of context-dependence (and in spite
of its variability), I do not endorse the narrow-wide distinction, to which Perry is committed. I say
more about these issues in Sect. 4.3 and 4.4.
4  Revisiting Holism
85
4.3  
All Roads Lead to Holism
In this section, I critically evaluate two-factor approaches to semantics, i.e.
approaches which endorse the wide-narrow distinction. I reject all notions of shared/
stable content and argue that holism is the most plausible account of mental
content.
4.3.1  Two-Factor Semantics
As mentioned in Sect. 4.2.1, one way in which narrow content has been defined is
in terms of Block’s (e.g. 1986) notion of conceptual or inferential role seman-
tics10
(henceforth C/IRS). This treats of inferential relations that a given concept or
proposition bears to other concepts or propositions in a cogniser’s belief system.
The main purpose of positing such internalist content is to provide psychological
explanation of a cogniser’s behaviour – the assumption being that what is ‘in the
head’ (i.e. a mental state) has functional (e.g. behavioural) consequences (Fodor and
Lepore 1992). The C/IRS narrow content, however, is not the only kind of content
that Block (ibid.) posits. Block’s argument is that both narrow and wide kinds of
content are needed if certain puzzles about meaning/semantics and reference are to
be resolved. Following Putnam (1975), Block assumes that wide content is neces-
sary if the Twin Earth puzzle is to be resolved. However, wide content cannot be all
there is to meaning/semantics because it cannot on its own handle the so-called
Frege’s cases.
Frege (1960) famously drew attention to the fact that if mind-external reference
is all there is to meaning/semantics, the substitution of co-referring expressions in a
sentence should preserve its truth value. That, however, is not the case in opaque
contexts. Consider (1) and (2) below, where expressions the morning star, the eve-
ning star and Venus all refer to the same planet in the mind-external world.
	
(1)	 Mary knows that the morning star is Venus.
	
(2)	 Mary knows that the evening star is Venus.
In a scenario where Mary knows that the morning star and Venus are co-­
referential expressions, but is unaware of the fact that the evening star is co-­
referential with them too, (1) comes out as true whereas (2) comes out as false.
Cases like this, where the substitution of co-referential expressions does not pre-
serve the truth value, are abundant (e.g. Cicero = Tully, Superman = Clark Kent,
Köln = Cologne, etc.). They all point to the conclusion that something mind-internal
has a role to play in the explanation of meaning/semantics. Block’s (1986) proposal
10
 Conceptual role semantics is concerned with the content of concepts (i.e. sub-propositional enti-
ties), whereas inferential role semantics is concerned with the role a proposition plays in a set of
inference patterns (Pagin 2006).
4.3 
All Roads Lead to Holism
86
incorporates both externalist and internalist observations in an approach that can be
referred to as a two-factor (i.e. internalist/narrow plus externalist/wide) seman-
tics. This approach came in for severe criticism from Fodor and Lepore (1992).
One of the problems that Fodor and Lepore (1992: 170) have with Block’s two-­
factor approach is that there is nothing in Block’s framework that ‘keeps the two
factors stuck together’ – the narrow and wide kinds of content are independent of
each other. On the one hand, this independence allows that Oscar’s and twin-Oscar’s
water terms in Putnam’s scenario have different wide contents despite having the
same narrow content. Conversely, it also allows that the terms the morning star and
the evening star, despite having a single wide content, may have two distinct narrow
contents (as was the case with Mary in (1) and (2)). On the other hand, this indepen-
dence worries Fodor and Lepore (1992: 170), who argue that, if wide content and
narrow content are independent, nothing in the theory prevents there being an
expression that has narrow content appropriate to 4 is a prime but truth conditions
(and thus independent content) appropriate to water is wet (Fodor and Lepore 1992:
172). The two-factor approach thus does not resolve what can be called the
content-­
reference problem.
Another problem that Fodor and Lepore (1992) have with two-factor semantics
relates directly to holism. As discussed in Sect. 4.2.1, C/IRS theories have a choice
to constrain narrow content to some set of content-constitutive inferences or not to
constrain it and argue for holistic narrow content. According to Fodor and Lepore
(1992), both solutions are problematic.
The most common way to constrain narrow content to content-constitutive infer-
ences is to adopt the analytic-synthetic distinction. This immediately brings us back
to Fodor’s (1998, 2008) criticism of that distinction (discussed in Sect. 2.1). Put
simply, Fodor thinks that C/IRS cannot be defined in terms of the analytic-synthetic
distinction because there is no way of deciding which inferences are and which are
not content-constitutive. In the light of this, Fodor (ibid.) argues that any non-­
atomistic account of conceptual content inevitably leads to holism. And, according
to Fodor, holism is problematic because (a) it does not satisfy the publicity con-
straint (which states that all humans share the same concepts), and relatedly (b) it
does not offer a plausible account of compositionality of thought. Fodor and
Lepore’s (1992: 176–177) argument is that (holistic) inferential roles are not com-
positional because they are constituted by whatever beliefs a cogniser happens to
have, i.e. they are unconstrained. For example, if someone happens to believe that
cows are dangerous – i.e. that an inference to DANGEROUS is part of the content
of the concept COW – then an inference from BROWN COW to DANGEROUS
should, by compositionality, be part of the content of BROWN COW. But that can-
not be the case, so the argument goes, because ‘it doesn’t look as if the inference
from “brown” or “cow” to “dangerous” is compositional’ (Fodor and Lepore 1992:
177). This leads Fodor and Lepore (1992: 181) to conclude that C/IRS suffers from
a circularity problem: the only way to make C/IRS compositional is to adopt the
analytic-synthetic distinction, but since there is no such distinction, C/IRS is an
implausible theory because it cannot account for compositionality.
4  Revisiting Holism
87
It must be noted, however, that there is also a certain circularity/inconsistency in
Fodor and Lepore’s criticism of C/IRS; their argument that the inference from
BROWN COW to DANGEROUS ‘doesn’t look’ compositional relies on the accep-
tance of the analytic-synthetic distinction – they actually write that the inference
from COW to DANGEROUS is ‘clearly synthetic’ (Fodor and Lepore 1992: 178).
More fundamentally, however, and regardless of Fodor and Lepore’s stand on the
analytic-synthetic distinction, their criticism of C/IRS is grounded in the publicity
constraint. It is undeniable (and I’m sure Fodor and Lepore would agree) that if
there is a COW → DANGEROUS inference in an individual mind, then, all things
being equal, this inference may licence the BROWN COW → DANGEROUS infer-
ence. The latter inference arises from the fact that the concept BROWN COW has
the concept COW as its component, i.e. it is compositionally constituted by it. For
Fodor and Lepore (1992), the problem with the subjective/individualistic inference
from BROWN COW to DANGEROUS is that it is subjective/individualistic. As
Fodor and Lepore (1992) see it, the subjective/individualistic aspect of holism pre-
cludes explanation of the human mind and so makes the prospects for psychological
generalisations/laws doomed to failure. The crux of the problem is that, given
holism, it is very unlikely that two cognisers will ever share a mental state with the
same content. I dismiss this criticism in Sect. 4.4.
As signposted at the end of Sect. 4.2., I sympathise with (Block’s adoption of)
holism but reject the argument that wide content is also necessary. The content-­
reference problem identified for two-factor semantics by Fodor and Lepore (1992)
is genuine. Given that two-factor semantics fails to resolve this problem (acknowl-
edged by Block himself (1993, 1998b)), there are two directions which one may
take in aid of resolving it. One may argue that there is only one kind of content and
that this content is wide. This position is taken by Fodor (1998, 2008). Alternatively,
one may argue that there is only one kind of content and that this content is holistic.
This position, endorsed in this book, is taken by Bilgrami (1992). In the next sec-
tion, I discuss problems with Fodor’s referentialism. My arguments are supported
by claims made in Bilgrami (1998).
4.3.2  
Fodor’s Referentialism and Frege’s Cases
Fodor’s (1998, 2008, with Pylyshyn 2015) answer to the content-reference problem
is the rejection of narrow content and with it of the wide-narrow distinction. For
Fodor, referential (i.e. causal-externalist) content is the only content there is (infer-
ential roles are, by assumption, non-content constitutive). Now, like any other the-
ory of mental content, Fodor’s theory is supposed to be equipped well enough to
account for the Frege cases (Sect. 4.3.1). We have seen that Block’s solution to the
problem of the substitution of co-referring expressions in opaque contexts was to
posit the existence of narrow content on top of wide content (though this gives rise
to the content-reference problem). For Block, the substitution of co-referring terms
fails in (1) and (2) because Mary’s terms the morning star and the evening star have
4.3 
All Roads Lead to Holism
88
different narrow contents. As for Fodor (1998, 2008), given that he overtly rejects
the existence of narrow content, he cannot, at least overtly, say what Block does.
What Fodor does, however, is argue that this problem has a syntactic solution; the
concepts THE MORNING STAR and THE EVENING STAR have different con-
stituent structures and that is why they can behave differently in opaque contexts.
For Fodor, ‘syntax can do what senses were traditionally supposed to do’ (Fodor
2008: 61).
When it comes to primitive concepts, the solution is the same. For Fodor, the
concepts CICERO and TULLY have exactly the same (referential) content, but they
are syntactically different. For Fodor, it is the assumed difference in the syntax of
these two concepts that allows for and explains situations where people believe that
Cicero was a great philosopher, but Tully was not. The question that Bilgrami (1998)
asks is what makes the two concepts syntactically different in the first place.
Presumably, it cannot be orthography or phonology since concepts are not the sort
of thing that can be spelt or pronounced (see also Fodor 2008: 79).11
Bilgrami (ibid.)
argues that even on the assumption that syntax solves these puzzles, syntax cannot
solve them if it is independent of cognisers’ conceptual/inferential roles. He writes:
No amount of talk of the syntax of Mentalese or talk of brain-writing is going to avoid the
route to syntax via interpretation of inferential behaviour. So if one insists that it is syntax
that will solve the puzzles, then the proper way to proceed is to see functional role as the
dog and syntax as the tail, with the former wagging the latter. There is no leaving functional
role out, […] Of course, someone might protest that syntax, in general, is surely not to be
thought of as exclusively posited on the basis of such things as inference and behaviour,
even if causal and inferential role is. That is plausible. But if it is plausible, the lesson to be
learnt from it is that one should not appeal to syntax to solve puzzles which are essentially
puzzles that are defined upon the failures of rationality in inferences. (Bilgrami 1998: 111)
Fodor (2008: 87) argues that ‘concepts have both referents and a congeries of beliefs
(etc.) in which they are embedded’, where the latter correspond to a concept’s role
(including inferential role) in mental processes. He also argues that ‘theories about
how minds represent things ought to be sensitive to data about which inferences one
does (or doesn’t) accept’ (2008: 77). That said, the relation between concepts (and
their formal, i.e. syntactic properties) and inferential roles is for Fodor one-­
directional; his claim is that ‘only formal differences among Mentalese expressions
can affect mental processes’ (2008: 77). Bilgrami’s point is that Fodor cannot invoke
the route from formal properties to mental processes without acknowledging the
primacy of the route from mental processes to formal properties. But once the pri-
macy of mental processes is acknowledged, there is no need to appeal to formal
11
 Furthermore, there exist puzzles where one and the same term has to correspond to two distinct
Fodorian concepts, i.e. concepts with the same content but distinct syntaxes. An example is pro-
vided by the so-called Paderewski puzzle. Paderewski was a famous Polish pianist as well as Prime
Minister. Thus, we can easily imagine a situation where a person who mistakenly believes that
Paderewski the pianist and Paderewski the politician were two different people has a further belief
that they have met Paderewski the politician, but not Paderewski the pianist in person. Fodor’s
solution to this puzzle is to argue that this person has two syntactically distinct concepts which
share the same content.
4  Revisiting Holism
89
properties in solving the puzzles. If formal properties are nevertheless made use of,
one ends up with the formal properties, i.e. the syntax, answering to the whole sub-
jective/individualistic system of inferences. Fundamentally, Bilgrami’s argument
(1998) shows that if Fodor insists that inferential roles are not content-constitutive
and invokes syntax to solve the puzzles, his notion of syntax is seriously compro-
mised. The paradox is that Fodor’s goal of keeping the theory of mind free from
individualism/holism has led him to an account where individualism/holism gov-
erns the formal properties of the mind.
Now, Fodor (2008: 86) explicitly denies that his account is a two-factor account.
This is because for him all inferential roles are by definition non-content-­constitutive,
and referential content is the only kind of content. However, given Bilgrami’s (1998)
criticism of Fodor, Fodor’s denial is untenable. Indeed, given that (i) Fodor (with
Pylyshyn 2015) has narrowed the scope of ‘pure’ referential semantics to ‘central
cases’, i.e. cases where there is a referent in the perceptual circle; that (ii) Fodor’s
atomism is untenable (as argued in Chap. 2 and this chapter); that relatedly (iii) he
may not after all be able to avoid reference to properties (e.g. in light of the cross-
linguistic data relating to RED, as discussed in Chap. 2); and that (iv) he rejects the
analytic-synthetic distinction (2008; with Pylyshyn 2015), we can conclude that
Fodor’s theory looks like a two-factor theory with holistic narrow content. I argue
that Fodor has simply failed to escape the charge of holism.
In the next section, I argue that individualistic, and thus holistic, assumptions
underlie the notion of social-externalist content.
4.3.3  
Problems with Social-Externalist Content
As discussed in Sect. 4.2.1, for theorists who posit social-externalist wide content,
the misuse of a given word (e.g. arthritis) can only be properly explained when we
assume the existence of content constituted by community norms – in this case by
the way the experts use it. However, perhaps the most obvious objection to social
externalism is that it gives rise to the problem of ‘incomplete understanding’  –
according to a social-externalist, an individual is ascribed thoughts composed by
concepts of which this individual may have an incomplete grasp (Wikforss 2004).
A related problem is that the alleged social explanations of language use (and
misuse) actually have an internalist-individualistic justification. Chomsky (2000)
observes that if a speaker uses, for example, the term arthritis, the hearer initially
assumes that the speaker’s usage is like that of the hearer’s. In other words, the
hearer assumes that the speaker uses the word to mean the ailment of joints. If the
hearer realises that the speaker uses the term to mean something else, the hearer
makes modifications to the interpretation as is required by the circumstances.
Reference to ‘public language’ or social-externalist content of the word ‘sheds no
further light on what is happening between [interlocutors], even if some clear sense
can be given to the tacitly assumed notions’ (Chomsky 2000: 32).
4.3 
All Roads Lead to Holism
90
Chomsky also discusses some problems with the social co-operation and the role
of experts in determining the reference of words. Chomsky shares the intuition that
under some circumstances we can agree that what we are referring to when using
the word elm, for example, is what is meant by some expert. But the expert to whom
the speaker is deferring the reference of elm may be an Italian gardener who does
not speak a word of English but yet is able to correct the speaker’s usage through his
knowledge of Latin terms. The problem is, Chomsky (2000: 71) observes, that it is
impossible to derive a useful notion of ‘language’ or ‘language community’ from
such considerations.
Chomsky’s internalism-individualism about word meaning/semantics is not
incompatible with there being speech communities (in some imprecise sense). As
Pateman (1987: 80) comments on Chomskyan general approach to the study of
language, ‘nativism does not exclude the possibility of a sociolinguistics; what it
does do is constrain its possible form’. The point is that because it is impossible to
precisely define/delimit the notion of a speech community, the notion is of little
theoretical import in the explanation of the phenomenon we are interested in.
Furthermore, an internalist-individualistic approach to word meaning/semantics
offers insight into what is happening in cases of ‘misuse’ of a given word without
making the implausible assumption that meaning/semantics is collectively shared
by members of the same speech community. If anything happens to be shared, it is
shared distributively (Pateman 1987: 91) and even then the distribution is non-­
uniform across individuals.12
Judging language misuse (or correct use) ultimately depends on our assumption
that people do things the way we do, i.e. that they use words to communicate what
we do in using them (Pateman 1987: 131). The judgement of correct use/misuse
happens not in virtue of collective agreement, but distributive agreement, i.e. agree-
ment grounded in internalist-individualistic terms. Burton-Roberts (2013) frames it
in terms of ‘I-linguistic assumptions, […] amounting to an I-assumption about oth-
ers’ words – effectively, the I-assumption that others implement the same conven-
tions as ‘I”.
Now, Chomsky’s individualism about words’ meaning/semantics is radical, as
discussed in Sect. 2.2. Since radical individualism  – together with the network
aspect – is defining of holism (Sect. 4.1), Chomsky’s arguments against social-­
externalism and for an individualistic explanation are, in effect, arguments for a
holistic explanation.
The problems with both types of externalism that I have discussed in this section
strongly suggest that holism underlies all externalist explanations. For this reason,
12
 
In the unlikely event that it were possible to investigate people’s mental contents, conceptual
primitive by conceptual primitive, and if we found a single conceptual structure recurrent across
individuals in association with a given semiotic label (see my discussion of RT’s process of ‘con-
cept narrowing’ in Sect. 3.1), we could not extrapolate from such an observation to the existence
of collectively shared linguistic semantics. Relatedly, we could not extrapolate from such finding
to the existence of the cognitive process of deterministic decoding of such content.
4  Revisiting Holism
91
holism is not merely one of the many possible options – it is, I argue, the only option
to be seriously taken into account.
4.4  
‘Problems’ with Holism Dismissed
In this section, I defend holism against three criticisms it has come under (espe-
cially, Fodor and Lepore (1992)). First, I look at the ‘problems’ of mental generali-
sations and compositionality. Then, I discuss how a holistic account is compatible
with the claim that meaning is publicly available.
4.4.1  
Holism Meets the Requirement for Mental
Generalisations and Compositionality
Fodor and Lepore (1992) object that holism, as a thesis, lacks explanatory potential.
This problem is exemplified by the inability of holism to state psychological gener-
alisations such as: ‘The belief that one is in immediate danger causes release of
adrenaline’. The problem identified here is that for holists there is nothing like the
belief that one is in immediate danger, because each individual’s beliefs are subjec-
tive/individualistic.
However, Block (1998a) argues that holistic accounts of mental content are able
to provide universally quantified laws, i.e. laws that generalise about contents with-
out specifying them. He gives the following example of a universally quantified
psychological law: ‘For any action a and any goal g, if one wants g and also believes
that a is required for g, then one will try to do a’. This quantified psychological law
has been stated without committing oneself to the existence of two agents having
exactly the same goals.
Another argument in favour of such quantified laws is related to my criticism of
Fodor’s atomicity (in Sect. 2.1). Fodor’s assumption that his theory allows for
­psychological generalisations like ‘The belief that one is in immediate danger causes
release of adrenaline’ is based on his claim that the concept BELIEF is atomic and
species-shared. The problem for Fodor – and for the explanatory potential of his
psychological statements – is that (as I argued in Sect. 2.1), Fodor’s atomism, on
which such generalisations rely, is theoretically and methodologically implausible.
Contrary to Fodor’s (1998, 2008, with Lepore 1992) claims, I argue that certain
general psychological laws can be deduced by observing instances of subjective/
individualistic inference patterns. For example, my earlier observation (in Sect. 4.3)
that the fact that the existence of the subjective/individualistic COW →
DANGEROUS inference licences the subjective/individualistic BROWN COW →
DANGEROUS inference is subsumed under the following generalisation.
4.4 
‘Problems’ with Holism Dismissed
92
	(3)	 ∀x(Y(x) & (z ⊆ x)) ⊃ Y(z)
(3) states that for all things x such that x has the property Y and z is a subset of x,
it follows that z has the property Y. Accordingly, if someone believes that all cows
are dangerous and that brown cows are a subset of the set of all cows, it follows that
this person believes that brown cows are dangerous. Given (3), we can predict an
infinite number of diverse subjective/individualistic inferences: from BROWN
COW to DANGEROUS or CUDDLY, from LITTLE POODLE to SCARY or
FRIENDLY or INCAPABLE OF RECURSIVE THOUGHT, etc. Similarly, we can
predict that, all things being equal, a subjective/individualistic inference from COW
to DANGEROUS will not licence the inference from NOT COW to NOT
DANGEROUS, just as the subjective/individualistic inference from LITTLE
POODLE to FRIENDLY will not licence the inference from NOT LITTLE
POODLE to NOT FRIENDLY.  This fact can be subsumed under the following
generalisation.
	(4)	 ~[[∀x(C(x)) ⊆ ∀y(D(y))] ⊃ [∃z(~C(z)) ⊃ ~D(z)]]
(4) states that it is not the case that if all things x which have the property C (e.g.
cow) form a subset of all things y which have the property D (e.g. seems dangerous),
then if there is a thing z such that z does not have the property C, then z does not
have the property D. In simple terms, (4) predicts that if all cows seem dangerous
but not all things that seem dangerous are cows, then, if something is not a cow, it
does not necessarily mean that it does not seem dangerous.
Furthermore, we can also predict that (4) will not hold if there is a logical rela-
tion of equivalence between the two variables, x and y. For example, it will not hold
for inferences from THE PRESENT QUEEN OF ENGLAND (x) to THE PRESENT
SUPREME GOVERNOR OF THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND (y). In cases of logi-
cal equivalence like that, the negation of one variable follows from the negation of
the other and vice versa. This rule can be subsumed under the following formula,
which is licensed by the truth-functional properties of logical equivalence.
	(5)	 (x ≡ y) ⊃ (~x ≡ ~y)
Just like the previous generalisations, so (5) predicts and explains a variety of
inferences, including ones that are peculiar to particular cognisers. For example, (5)
predicts that if someone happens to believe that the natural phenomenon of winds
blowing at a speed of more than 40 kilometres per hour is always concurrent with
the pressure drop by 80 hectopascals, then this person is bound to infer from the
occurrence of one to the occurrence of the other (and vice versa) and also from the
non-occurrence of one to the non-occurrence of the other (and vice versa).
The point I am making here is that the probability or improbability of certain
inference patterns with subjective/individualistic content can be predicted by refer-
ence to the laws of logic. This shows that holism about mental content is absolutely
compatible with positing psychological generalisations, grounded in general rules
of logic, as laws underlying general human inferential patterns. I argue that given
the availability and explanatory power of such laws, Fodor’s argument that holistic
accounts hinder psychological generalisations and therefore thwart prospects for
robust and explanatorily powerful psychological theories is unjustified.
4  Revisiting Holism
93
A further, related, aspect of holism that Fodor and Lepore (1992) object to has
already been mentioned in Sect. 4.1 as ‘the network effect’; the conceptual role of a
mental symbol is such as to relate it more or less directly to many other (and though
indirectly perhaps all) mental symbols within the same system, making the symbols
mutually dependent for content. As mentioned in Sect. 4.3.1, Fodor and Lepore
object to the network aspect of holism by arguing that it does not offer a plausible
account of compositionality of thought.
Fodor and Lepore (1992: 182–183) argue that compositionality is normally
determined locally; for example, the idea that syntax is compositional is the idea
that the structural description of an expression is determined by the ‘[…] lexical
items that it contains’. The problem for them is that, even if holism is compatible
with some sort of compositionality, such compositionality is not determined locally
but globally, i.e. by features of one’s whole belief system.
However, the ‘problem’ of global compositionality does not arise if one allows
for immediate pragmatic constraints on inference.13
As discussed in Sect. 3.2.3,
Hintzman’s (1986) context-dependent process of echo retrieval constrains prag-
matic inference so that not all memory traces stored in secondary memory (i.e. not
whole holistic system) resonate strongly enough to make contribution to the echo
which is retrieved in the process of utterance interpretation (and which, for
Hintzman, constitutes the interpretation of a given utterance). Thus, Hintzman’s
account clearly shows that not all subjective/individualistic content is relevant to the
retrieval of context-sensitive conceptual structures (i.e. thoughts). Add to this the
fact that compositionality is a phenomenon which operates on contextually sensitive
concepts (as convincingly argued by Recanati (2005), Sect. 3.2.3.3), Fodor and
Lepore’s (1992) objection to the global nature of compositionality involved in
holistic accounts is, again, ill-founded.
The point is that a holistic account of mental content is compatible with and only
with a local account of compositionality as long as it is combined with a radically
contextualist account of utterance interpretation – like the one I argued for in Sect.
3.2.3. On a radically contextualist account – which presupposes holistic mental con-
tent – compositionality does not operate globally, i.e. it does not combine all imag-
inable inferential roles of a given concept, because all imaginable inferential roles
of a given concept are constrained by contextual factors (those which are incoming
and those which are stored in secondary memory). This, very roughly, means that if
A and B are sitting in a restaurant eating steaks and A is telling B that A loves beef
so much that to A even the look of a cow grazing in a meadow is mouth-watering, A
is not communicating to B, and B is not taking A to be communicating to B, all A’s
(somewhat inconsistent) concerns about cruelty that animals are subjected to in
slaughterhouses. That is because, even though in A’s mind there are inferential
routes from COW to MOUTH-WATERING, from COW to CRUELTY THAT
ANIMALS ARE SUBJECTED TO IN SLAUGHTERHOUSES, and from COW to
MILK, the second and third inferences are not constitutive of the thought A is com-
13
 That is, the ‘problem’ arises if one – like Fodor and Lepore – doesn’t acknowledge the role of
pragmatic constraints.
4.4 
‘Problems’ with Holism Dismissed
94
municating to B in that particular situation. Thus, contrary to what Fodor and Lepore
(1992) argue, holism does not commit one to a global approach to compositionality.
Indeed, holism implies that compositionality is a context-sensitive process (which
is compatible with Recanati 2005).
In this section, I have dismissed two arguments that Fodor and Lepore (1992)
have wielded against holism: (i) lack of prospects for psychological generalisations
and (ii) commitment to global compositionality. There is one remaining issue that
needs to be discussed: the question of how a holistic account is compatible with the
claim that meaning is publicly available. My argument is grounded in Bilgrami’s
(1992) thesis about the unity and locality of content.
4.4.2  
Bilgrami’s Unity and Locality of Content
In this section, I introduce Bilgrami’s (1992) unity and locality of content thesis and
discuss how Bilgrami’s thesis allows for public availability of meaning. However, I
identify certain tensions in Bilgrami’s thinking about concepts and argue that they
can be resolved by adopting the Representational Hypothesis’ account of semantics
and meaning.
4.4.2.1  
Unity and Locality of Content
Bilgrami’s (1992) unity of content thesis states that there is just one kind of con-
tent – holistic content. Crucially, however, Bilgrami argues that the holistic content
as such (i.e. content at the network level) is not involved in the explanation of
behaviour (including linguistic behaviour). What it does is provide ‘a pool of
resources’ for selective use in the interpretation of behaviour of others. Bilgrami
(e.g. 1992: 10, 142–144) calls the holistic level the ‘meaning-theoretic’, ‘aggrega-
tive’ or ‘idiolect’ level.
Bilgrami’s (ibid.) locality of content thesis states that holistic content is con-
strained at the ‘local’ – i.e. context-specific – level and that it is this locally con-
strained content which plays a role in the explanation of behaviour.
The distinction between aggregative and local levels can be illustrated with the
word water. Let us assume that in the mind of a person A, the word water is associ-
ated with some phenomenological properties, complex beliefs about its chemical
composition, the feeling of quenching thirst, the fear of drowning, etc. But in the
mind of a chemically ignorant person B, the word water is associated only with
phenomenological properties, the feeling of quenching thirst, the pleasure of swim-
ming, etc. Bilgrami’s locality of content thesis states that in the context where a
chemically ignorant person (B) and a chemically aware person (A) are drinking
water from the tap to quench thirst, or when A is asking B for a glass of water, only
the beliefs about quenching thirst properties of water will be relevant to the explana-
tion of their behaviour. In this locality, A’s beliefs about the chemical composition
4  Revisiting Holism
95
of water or A’s associations of the term water with the fear of drowning are not
selected from the specifications of the aggregative level. Thus, even though A’s and
B’s beliefs associated with the term water are necessarily different at the aggrega-
tive (holistic) level, they may (and often do) converge at the local level.
Bilgrami’s locality of content thesis offers a perspective on the ‘problem’ raised
for the network and individualist aspects of holism – i.e. the criticism that ‘no two
people are ever likely to have the same concepts since they will almost certainly
associate different beliefs with their respective terms‘(Bilgrami 1992: 10). Bilgrami
(1992: 147) argues that this sort of criticism follows from the mistaken assumption
that content at the holistic level plays a role in the explanation of behaviour.
However, a particular shortcoming of Bilgrami’s account is that he (1992: 12,
143) underestimates the importance of the aggregative level and suggests that,
because this level summarises all individualistic beliefs associated with a given
term, it is ‘of no specific interest or use at all’, that it has ‘no psychological reality’
and that it is merely a ‘trumped up theoretical posit’. Perhaps this is why Bilgrami
(1992: 145) worries that his account may be criticised for not offering a ‘clear prin-
ciple’ on how the local content is ‘distilled’ from the aggregative level.
I disagree with Bilgrami on this point and argue that the locality of content is not
plausible unless it is acknowledged that the aggregative level is psychologically
real. This is because the aggregative level is essentially involved in determining/
constraining local contents. Crucially, I argue that Bilgrami’s aggregative level finds
parallels with Hintzman’s (1986) trace aggregate level and, furthermore, that
Hintzman’s process of echo retrieval offers a ‘clear principle’ for how Bilgrami’s
local content is selected from the aggregative level.
From Hintzman’s perspective, the locality of content thesis is satisfied by the
context-sensitive process of echo retrieval. As discussed in Chap. 3, on Hintzman’s
account, the interpretation of acoustic stimuli is a wholly pragmatic process of
retrieving a conceptual structure (i.e. the echo) via the matching of the incoming
contextual information (i.e. the probe) with multiple traces stored in secondary
memory (i.e. the trace aggregate level). This means that for the echo – which can be
understood as Bilgrami’s local content – to be retrieved, there has got to be the trace
aggregate level to match the incoming stimuli with. This suggests that Bilgrami’s
aggregative level is much more than a ‘trumped up theoretical posit’ – in fact, it is
necessary for the retrieval of local content.
4.4.2.2  
Bilgrami’s Externalism and Public Availability of Private Thought
Bilgrami (1992) argues that his locality of content thesis requires a special kind of
externalism. This special kind of externalism, he goes on to argue, should allow for
public availability of thought but, emphatically, should not amount to causal- or
social-externalist kinds of wide content, which Bilgrami rejects as implausible.
Bilgrami (1992: 4, 200) argues that some form of externalism is necessary to
explain how we are able to understand one another. In other words, it is necessary
to allow for the public availability of belief and meaning. External environment is
4.4 
‘Problems’ with Holism Dismissed
96
important, Bilgrami (1992: 6–7) argues, insofar as ‘one fixes concepts’ – that is,
attributes concepts to other people (e.g. 1992: 7, 160) – by correlating the terms in
the utterances, in which concepts are ‘expressed’, with saliencies in the environ-
ment in which these utterances are made. It must be pointed out, however, that for
Bilgrami (1992: 134), ‘there is no way to think of concepts being individuated by
external objects, except as constrained by an agent’s beliefs’. Accordingly,
Bilgrami’s externalism amounts to the claim that the agent’s perceptions of (beliefs
about) mind-external environment are essential in attributing concepts to other
agents. For Bilgrami (e.g. 1992: 160), the mind-external world plays an evidential
role in that concepts are attributed to agents by observing correlations between the
uses of a particular term by agents and perceptions of external items in the context
of these utterances. Thus, the sense in which Bilgrami’s (e.g. 1992: 160, 200) exter-
nalism allows for public availability of private thought – i.e. for ‘one mind’s access
to another’s mind and its contents’ – is in virtue of it being communicated in con-
text. Because this ‘access to another’s mind’ relies on context-dependence, it must,
I assume, consist in pragmatic inference. Therefore, (perceived) mind-external con-
text correlated with the use of a given term constitutes the evidence for pragmatic
attribution of concepts, i.e. for inferring the intended interpretation of one’s inter-
locutor’s communicative behaviour.
Bilgrami (e.g. 1992: 7) is careful to point out that finding the right mind-external
saliencies to correlate with an agent’s use of a given term has to ‘fit in with’ the
other contents one has already attributed to a given agent. Notice that for this to
work, Bilgrami has to acknowledge the importance, and the evidential role, of the
aggregative level: if the current contextual information ‘fits in with’ other contents
attributed to a given agent, the contents attributed in the past must be stored some-
where. This ‘somewhere’ is the aggregative level and the ‘fitting in’, I argue, hap-
pens through Hintzman’s (1986) process of echo retrieval. When the importance of
the aggregative level is recognised, Bilgrami’s notion of public availability (or evi-
dentiality) in terms of context-dependence corresponds to my argument (Sect.
3.2.3.5) that contextual information (both incoming and stored in secondary mem-
ory) constitutes primary, indeed the only, evidence for intended interpretation.
Now, Bilgrami’s characterisation of public availability is reminiscent of Perry’s
(Sect. 4.2.1) characterisation of wide content, and thus the content’s public avail-
ability, in terms of its context dependence (and regardless of the notion of share-
ability qua stability). Perry’s wide content is dynamic – i.e. it co-varies/changes
with context  – and, at the same time, it is publicly available precisely because
dependent on the mind-external world, which (unlike someone else’s thought) is
available to all of us for scrutiny. Of course, Bilgrami’s account differs from Perry’s
in that Bilgrami rejects the problematic (as argued in Sects. 4.2 and 4.3) narrow-­
wide dichotomy. This rejection has serious consequences for the sense-reference
problem which, as discussed in Sect. 4.3, arises for two-factor accounts.
Bilgrami (e.g. 1992: 134, 140) argues that what ‘individuates concepts’ is not the
mind-external world but agents’ conceptions of things (i.e. their beliefs). Indeed,
Bilgrami (e.g. 1992: 32–33, 134) denies that the notion of reference has got ‘any-
thing to do with meaning and content’. His externalism is not the claim that the
4  Revisiting Holism
97
mind-external world provides, i.e. is constitutive of the content of concepts.
Bilgrami’s externalism is the claim that the mind-external world provides evidence
for inferring what the (non-referential) content is. Thus, Bilgrami does not abandon
externalism, but in rejecting reference restrains its function (Bilgrami 1992: 139–
140). Having rejected reference, Bilgrami’s account effectively dissolves the sense-­
reference problem: there is no such problem, because reference is not
content-constitutive (or, more precisely, there is no reference).14
More recently, a compatible proposal has been put forward by Gärdenfors (2000,
2014; also Warglien and Gärdenfors 2013). Gärdenfors’s socio-cognitive theory of
conceptual spaces presupposes no sharp distinction between semantics and prag-
matics.15
Indeed, it shifts the focus of semantic theorising from a relatively fixed
mapping between words and meanings (a view which Gärdenfors rejects) to a
meeting of minds where cognisers with divergent cognitive spaces strive to con-
verge on meaning by coordinating their visual spaces and/or testing if their infer-
ences are coordinated. Gärdenfors (2014: 110) emphasises that his theory does not
rely on a classical notion of reference but ‘builds on how the individuals construe
the world in their minds and how they coordinate their construals.’ Future research
may look into the compatibility of the proposal advocated in this book and the men-
tal spaces approach.
4.4.2.3  Holism and Concepts
Overall, I am sympathetic to Bilgrami’s argument that content, or rather the infer-
ring of content, is dependent on external environment but not constituted by it.
Much of my agreement, however, depends on what really is the locus of externalism
and holism and what exactly is meant by the term ‘concept’.
Given that for Bilgrami it is the local level which bears explanatory potential, his
‘concepts’ seem to be the context-dependent entities which are taken to be commu-
nicated by the speaker on a given occasion of use. Using RT’s terminology,
Bilgrami’s concepts are ad hoc.16
Thus, when Bilgrami talks of ‘individuation of
concepts’, what he has in mind is an inference from contextual information to con-
cepts taken as communicated in a particular communicative situation. For Bilgrami,
thus, concepts are temporal mental objects, dynamically constructed on the basis of
context and a cogniser’s holistic belief system (i.e. the aggregate level). Bilgrami’s
14
 As discussed in Chap. 2, Chomsky (2000) sympathises with Bilgrami’s account.
15
 
However, conceptual spaces theory makes use of dynamically construed prototypes for some
categories.
16
 
This interpretation seems to be right especially in the light of Bilgrami’s (1992: 12) argument
that the locality thesis ‘dissolves the very idea of content composed of context-invariant concepts’.
He (ibid.) argues that the locality thesis offers ‘a way out of the dogmas of a certain way of think-
ing which leave us on the one hand with a false distinction [wide-narrow] and, on the other, with
an artificially tidy picture of the mind’.
4.4 
‘Problems’ with Holism Dismissed
98
externalism about ‘individuation of concepts’ is not a thesis about conceptual con-
tent but about the inferring (attributing) of communicative intention.
The nature of this distinction becomes clearer when we recall Burton-Roberts’
(2013) signification precondition (Sect. 3.2.2), which is a logically necessary
requirement that, in any signification relation, a signified must exist prior to and
independent of the fact of signification. In the linguistic context, this means that if
an acoustic event (‘uttered term’) is to function as a sign for a concept, the concept
must exist prior to and independent of the fact of signification. Thus, the
Representational Hypothesis’ unambiguous distinction between linguistic signs and
concepts highlights the lack of any necessary dependence between terms/linguistic
signs and concepts. When concepts are unambiguously distinguished from the way
they might be said to function in language (i.e. from the way they are associated
with linguistic signs), it becomes clear that the internalist stance about concepts and
their content is compatible with an externalist stance (in the sense of Bilgrami)
about meaning as defined in the Representational Hypothesis (Sect. 3.2.2). Having
acknowledged the signification precondition and the Representational Hypothesis’
notion of meaning-as-relation, it becomes possible to see that Bilgrami’s external-
ism is not a thesis about concepts, but about meaning.
A conclusion which can be drawn at this point is that whereas semantic (i.e.
mental) content at the aggregative level is holistic and private,17
meaning (in the
sense of Burton-Roberts) is local because it is contextually and thus externally (in
the sense of Bilgrami) constrained to a degree which, all things being equal, allows
for successful communication. The locality of meaning guarantees that the com-
municated concept – that is one of the relata in the meaning relation – is publicly
available because the inferring of it is sensitive to the mind-external co-variances,
which, in Hintzman’s sense, constitute part of the probe.
A few words of caution are in order before I conclude this chapter. The semantic
content at the aggregative level can be thought of in terms of ‘meaning potential’
(e.g. Bilgrami 1992, Langacker 1987, Evans 2009, Alwood 2003, Zlatev 2003).
However, we need to be careful in using this term as, in the literature, positing a
meaning potential is not tantamount to rejecting some notion of linguistic seman-
tics. For example, within linguistics a distinction can be made between lumpers
and splitters schools of thought (Taylor 2012). These two terms are typically
evoked when discussing the phenomenon of polysemy but they are also useful when
discussing meaning and semantics more generally. Lumpers are very radical in
adhering to Modified Occam’s Razor in that they tend to posit a unitary, abstract
linguistic semantics that encapsulates different uses of the same linguistic label,
allowing only for minimal polysemy (e.g. Ruhl 1989, Grice 1989). Splitters, on the
other hand, tend to multiply the ‘meanings’ they assign to a given linguistic label
(e.g. Lakoff 1987, Tuggy 2003). An in-between approach, which we can call mod-
erate lumping, seems to be advocated by Tyler and Evans (2001) and Evans
(2009). Standard Relevance Theory can be seen as a lumper or a moderate lumper
approach, but deciding which of these it is would miss the point. The point is that
17
 See Pollock (2013) for a relevant discussion and defence of holism.
4  Revisiting Holism
99
what lumpers and moderate lumpers have in common is their adherence to the clas-
sical Saussurean notion of a linguistic sign, whereby the sign is partly constituted by
what it is a sign of (i.e. linguistic semantics, lexical concept, concept schema, sense,
etc.).18
As for splitters, this approach has often been criticised for being unexplanatory
(in the light of Modified Occam’s Razor) and for its usage fundamentalism, which
eliminates the role of words (qua double-interface objects) in the construction of
‘meaning’ (Harder 2009). It has also been described as a methodological fallacy
(Sandra 1998). In relation to this criticism, observe that the Modified Occam’s
Razor is a principle patently biased towards the Gricean model, which relies on the
Saussurean notion of a linguistic sign. Observe further that an unmodified Occam’s
Razor would actually suggest the rejection of any form of linguistic semantic repre-
sentation/content in the light of the argument (Chaps. 3 and 4) that it is a redundant
(and very problematic) element of the utterance interpretation model. Thus, while
Modified Occam’s Razor and Occam’s Razor present us with opposing methodolo-
gies, the problems with the Chomskyan-Saussurean legacy discussed in Chap. 3
suggest that it is the adherence to a double-interface construal of words which is
problematic.
The kind of holism that I have been advocating here – that is holism pertaining
to the mental content at the aggregative, meaning potential, level – is consistent with
18
 Evans’s LCCM approach (2006, 2009) is an interesting illustration of adherence to this classical,
but hugely problematic (as discussed in Chap. 3) notion of a linguistic sign. This theory is of inter-
est to us because it stresses the importance of a meaning potential whilst insisting on the moderate
lumping paradigm. On the one hand, Evans reserves the term ‘meaning’ to what can be character-
ised as ad hoc concepts, stressing that ‘meaning’ is a context-dependent phenomenon. However, he
also argues (e.g. 2009: 153) that both ‘stable units of semantic structure’ – i.e. lexical concepts,
which partly constitute the ‘bipolar symbolic units’ that populate the linguistic system – and a
‘dynamically evolving non-linguistic knowledge’ (a.k.a. meaning potential) are required for
‘meaning’ construction. Whereas I agree with Evans (e.g. 2009: 84) that words do not have mean-
ing and think that Evans’s work is a fruitful contribution to the study of how different parts of the
meaning potential are activated in utterance interpretation, the objections I raised against the
Saussurean approaches in Chap. 3 apply here equally strongly. Evans acknowledges that context
helps select between different lexical concepts associated with a polysemous word and argues that
such contextually selected lexical concept is needed to give access to specific – i.e. consistent with
the context – regions of the meaning potential representation. In other words, for Evans there’s no
accessing of the meaning potential without the gatekeeper in the form of a lexical concept. But we
have seen that on a multiple-trace theory of memory activation of specific regions of the meaning
potential can be achieved without positing lexical concepts (or any other kind of summary repre-
sentations). Specific regions of the meaning potential representation (i.e. specific memory traces
associated with a given morpho-phonetic label) will be activated in response to the context sensi-
tive probe (mental representation of an acoustic event that activates an aggregate of exemplars
labelled with a morpho-phonetic label and mental representation of context which activates rele-
vant traces within that aggregate). Furthermore, even though for Evans ‘meaning’ is an utterance
phenomenon, it is seen as a property of an utterance (e.g. 2009: 73) – hence, my earlier likening of
it to ad hoc concepts. I leave the explanation of why this is a problem until Chap. 6, where I discuss
why a clear distinction needs to be made between the content of a communicated thought – an ad
hoc concept – on the one hand, and meaning – qua relation – on the other (I have made a similar
promise earlier in relation to Urquiza’s stance on Relevance Theoretic approach to ‘meaning’).
4.4 
‘Problems’ with Holism Dismissed
100
splitter approaches, in particular exemplar models. The account of meaning advo-
cated here – that is meaning-as-a-relation to semantics (in the sense of Burton-­
Roberts) – ensures that the holistic level is contextually and thus externally (in the
sense of Bilgrami) constrained, via a resonance mechanism (in the sense of
Hintzman), to a degree which, all things being equal, allows for successful
communication.
4.5  Conclusion
This chapter has engaged with two related issues. The first concerned philosophical
legacy in Relevance Theory’s notion of linguistic semantic content. The second,
more general, issue concerned the question of whether any philosophical notion of
shared content can withstand the challenge of holism. I argued that all, wide or nar-
row, notions of shared/stable content are problematic. Having dismissed three criti-
cisms of holism  – the ‘problem’ of mental generalisations, the ‘problem’ of
compositionality, and the sense-reference ‘problem’ – I maintained, in line with the
arguments presented in Chap. 3, that holism is the most plausible account of mental
content.
I further argued that Bilgrami’s unity and locality of content thesis, with its spe-
cific form of externalism (in terms of the RH, the externalism of meaning), offers a
compelling account of public availability of a personal thought in virtue of its being
communicated in context. Bilgrami’s account of public availability of thought is
important as it effectively makes the wide notion of content conceptually
unnecessary.
The arguments presented in this chapter and in Chap. 3 make a strong case
against a traditional two-step (deterministic decoding and pragmatic inferring)
account of utterance interpretation and for a wholly pragmatic, wholly inferential
account of utterance interpretation – interpretation which is primarily (i.e. immedi-
ately) constrained by a personal (i.e. holistic) inference about the communicative
intention of the speaker in a given conversational context.
In the second part of the book, I investigate whether my theoretical arguments
can and should be applied to linguistic analysis. In particular, I investigate whether
the arguments put forward so far apply to the analysis of the meaning communi-
cated by the use of the linguistic sign if. I then look at the consequences that my
account has for the explicit-implicit distinction.
References
Alwood, J. (2003). Meaning potentials and contexts: Some consequences for the analysis of varia-
tion in meaning. In H. Cuckens, R. Dirven, & J. Taylor (Eds.), Cognitive approaches to lexical
semantics (pp. 22–66). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
4  Revisiting Holism
101
Bach, K. (1996). Content: Wide vs. narrow. In E. Craig (Ed.), The Routledge encyclopedia of phi-
losophy. Routledge. http://online.sfsu.edu/kbach/widenarr.html. Accessed 21 Jan 2011.
Bilgrami, A. (1992). Belief and meaning. Cambridge, MA: Basil Blackwell Ltd..
Bilgrami, A. (1998). Why holism is harmless and necessary. Noûs, 32, 105–126.
Block, N. (1986). Advertisement for a semantics for psychology. In P. A. French et al. (Eds.),
Midwest studies in philosophy 10: Studies in the philosophy of mind (pp.  615–678).
Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.
Block, N. (1993). Holism, hyper-analyticity and hyper-compositionality. Mind and Language,
8(1), 1–26.
Block, N. (1995). An argument for holism. Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series,
95, 151–169.
Block, N. (1998a). Holism, mental and semantic. In E.  Craig (Ed.), The Routledge enclyclo-
paedia of philosophy. Routledge. http://www.nyu.edu/gsas/dept/philo/faculty/block/papers/
MentalSemanticHolism.htm. Accessed 21 Jan 2011.
Block, N. (1998b). Conceptual role semantics. In E. Craig (Ed.), The Routledge enclyclopaedia of
philosophy. London: Routledge.
Brown, C. (2011). Narrow mental content. In E. N. Zalta (Ed.), The Stanford encyclopedia of phi-
losophy. http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/content-narrow. Accessed 21 Jan 2011.
Burge, T. (1979). Individualism and the mental. In P. French et al. (Eds.), Midwest studies in phi-
losophy (Vol. 4). Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press. [Reprinted in Burge, T. (2007).
Foundations of mind (pp. 100–150). Oxford: Clarendon Press].
Burton-Roberts, N. (2013). Meaning, semantics and semiotics. In A. Capone, F. Lo Piparo, &
M. Carapezza (Eds.), Perspectives on linguistic pragmatics (pp. 1–22). London: Springer.
Carston, R. (2002). Thoughts and utterances: The pragmatics of explicit communication. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Carston, R. (2010). Explicit communication and ‘free’ pragmatic enrichment. In B.  Soria &
E.  Romero (Eds.), Explicit communication: Robyn Carston’s pragmatics (pp.  217–287).
Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Carston, R. (2013). Word meaning, what is said and explicature. In C. Penco & F. Domaneschi
(Eds.), What is said and what is not. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Chomsky, N. (2000). New horizons in the study of language and mind. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Evans, V. (2006). Lexical concepts, cognitive models and meaning construction. Cognitive
Linguistics, 17, 491–534.
Evans, V. (2009). How words mean: Lexical concepts, cognitive models, and meaning construc-
tion. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Fodor, J. (1998). Concepts: Where cognitive science went wrong. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Fodor, J. (2008). LOT2: Language of thought revisited. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Fodor, J., & Lepore, E. (1992). Holism: A shopper’s guide. Oxford/Cambridge: Blackwell
Publishers.
Fodor, J., & Pylyshyn, Z. (2015). Minds without meanings: An essay on the content of concepts.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Frege, G. (1960). On sense and reference. In P. Geach & M. Black (Eds.), Translations from the
philosophical writings of Gottlob Frege (pp. 36–56). Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
Gärdenfors, P. (2000). Conceptual spaces: The geometry of thought. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Gärdenfors, P. (2014). The geometry of meaning: Semantics based on conceptual spaces.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Grice, H. P. (1989). Studies in the way of words. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Harder, P. (2009). Meaning as input: The instructional perspective. In V. Evans & S. Pourcel (Eds.),
New directions in cognitive linguistics (pp. 15–26). Amsterdam: Johns Benjamins.
Hintzman, D. (1986). “Schema abstraction” in a multiple trace memory model. Psychological
Review, 93, 411–428.
References
102
Lakoff, G. (1987). Women, fire and dangerous things: What categories reveal about the mind.
Chicago: Chicago University Press.
Langacker, R. W. (1987). Foundations of cognitive grammar: Volume I theoretical prerequisites.
Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Lepore, E. (1999). Semantic holism. In R. Auri (Ed.), The Cambridge dictionary of philosophy
(2nd ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Pagin, P. (2006). Meaning holism. In E. Lepore & B. Smith (Eds.), Handbook of philosophy of
language (pp. 213–232). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Pateman, T. (1987). Language in mind and language in society. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Perry, J. (1977). Frege on demonstratives. Philosophical Review, 86, 474–497.
Pollock, J.  (2013). Mental content, holism and communication. PhD thesis, University of
Edinburgh.
Putnam, H. (1975). The meaning of ‘meaning’. In Philosophical papers, vol. 2: Mind language
and reality (pp. 215–271). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Recanati, F. (1993). Direct reference: From language to thought. Oxford: Blackwell Publishers
Ltd..
Recanati, F. (2005). Literalism and contextualism: Some varieties. In G. Preyer & G. Peter (Eds.),
Contextualism in philosophy. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Ruhl, C. (1989). On Monosemy: A study in linguistic semantics. Albany: State University of
New York Press.
Sandra, D. (1998). What linguists can and can’t tell you about the human mind: A reply to croft.
Cognitive Linguistics, 9(4), 361–478.
Sperber, D., & Wilson, D. (1998). The mapping between the mental and the public lexicon. In
P. Carruthers & J. Boucher (Eds.), Thought and language. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Taylor, J. R. (2012). The mental corpus: How language is represented in the mind. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Tuggy, D. (2003). The Nawatl verb kīsa: A case study in polysemy. In H. Cuckens, R. Dirven, &
J. Taylor (Eds.), Cognitive approaches to lexical semantics (pp. 22–66). Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Tyler, A., & Evans, V. (2001). Reconsidering prepositional polysemy networks: The case of over.
Language, 77, 724–765.
Warglien, M., & Gärdenfors, P. (2013). Semantics, conceptual spaces and the meeting of minds.
Synthese, 190(12), 2165–2193.
Wikforss, A. M. (2004). Externalism and incomplete understanding. The Philosophical Quarterly,
54, 287–294.
Zlatev, J. (2003). Polysemy or generality? Mu. In H. Cuckens, R. Dirven, & J. Taylor (Eds.),
Cognitive approaches to lexical semantics (pp. 22–66). Mouton de Gruyter: Berlin.
4  Revisiting Holism
Part II
Conditionals
105
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
M. Sztencel, Semantics, Pragmatics and Meaning Revisited,
Perspectives in Pragmatics, Philosophy & Psychology 17,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-69116-9_5
Chapter 5
The Meaning of if
In line with the arguments presented in Part I of the book, this chapter argues that it
is implausible and indeed unnecessary to offer a linguistic semantic account of con-
ditionals. The bulk of the chapter revisits the relation between conditionals and the
logic of Material Implication (MI). I argue that the perceived mutual exclusivity of
pro-MI and anti-MI approaches is only apparent and stems from the anyway prob-
lematic a priori assumption that linguistic semantics exists/should exist. Once prob-
lems with this assumption are acknowledged, we can begin to consider other ways
in which conditionals may ‘have something to do’ with the logical operator MI,
without evoking linguistic semantics or compromising MI’s claims to supra-­
personality. Moving beyond MI, the chapter also deals with an assumption made by
both truth-functional and non-truth-functional approaches: that a conditional is
false if the antecedent is true but the consequent false – what I’ll refer to as the ∼(p
& ∼q) constraint. Focusing on conditional promises and threats, I show that the ∼(p
& ∼q) constraint does not uniformly apply to all conditional inducements; whether
it does or does not depends on holistic assumptions of the interlocutors. Thus the
∼(p & ∼q) constraint cannot be a linguistic semantic constraint. I put forward a
socio-cognitively grounded Inverse Effect Hypothesis and argue that it offers a
more explanatory and more uniform account of conditional inducements than one
which assumes MI or the ∼(p & ∼q) constraint as the encoded semantics of
conditionals.
Parts of this chapter have been reprinted from Lingua, 152, Magdalena Sztencel, Conditionality in
individual minds: an argument for a wholly pragmatic approach to utterance interpretation, 81-97,
Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V., with permission from Elsevier.
The quotations from Thoughts and Utterances: The Pragmatics of Explicit Communication, Robyn
Carston, 2002 are republished here with permission of John Wiley and Sons Inc.; permission con-
veyed through Copyright Clearance Center, Inc.
The quotation from Metarepresentation: A Relevance-Theory Approach, Eun-Ju Noh, 2000,
Copyright © John Benjamins Publishing Company, is reprinted here by permission of John
Benjamins Publishing Company.
106
5.1  
Why Focus on Conditionals?
Why focus on conditionals? For one thing, conditionals are very important in human
cognition and communication. Among having multiple other functions, condition-
als allow us to make predictions (If it rains, the match will likely be cancelled), plan
(If she drink-drives again, I’ll report her to the police), threaten people (If you
drink-drive again, I’ll report you to the police) and make promises (If you pass the
exam, I’ll take you to a restaurant). But there is another reason, one which links
back to the first part of this book. The reason is that there is no satisfactory linguistic
semantic theory of if. In line with the arguments presented in the first part of the
book, I will argue that this is because it is implausible and unnecessary to offer one.
In my exposition, I will go against the current trends in the literature on conditionals
and actually revisit the relation between conditionals and the logic of Material
Implication (henceforth MI). I do so for the following reason.
On the one hand, there are theorists who have argued for a classical, MI analysis
of the semantics of conditionals. Analysts in this ‘pro-MI camp’ (e.g. Grice 1989;
Smith and Smith 1988; Horn 2000; Noh 2000) can explain why not all conditionals
diverge from the logic of MI (for them, if semantically encodes MI) and, if they do
diverge, offer a pragmatic way of explaining how it happens. The pro-MI camp’s
efforts are important if only because their semantico-pragmatic accounts of the
interpretation of if may be thought of as one of the central achievements of prag-
matic theory (e.g. Mauri and van der Auwera 2012). Indeed, moving across disci-
plines, a semantico-pragmatic version of the classical approach is still used in a
major psychological theory of mental models (Johnson-Laird and Byrne 2002 and
Johnson-Laird et al. 2009). On the other side of the debate, there are those who
argue against an MI semantics of conditionals (e.g. Adams 1965; Stalnaker 1975;
Edgington 1995; Oaksford and Chater 2003; Evans and Over 2004; Evans et al.
2007: 1772). In this anti-MI camp, attention has been drawn to the processing of
conditionals (which often defies the normative rules imposed by MI) and, relatedly,
to the existence of conditional belief deviations from MI. Such conditional belief
deviations from MI take place at the level of belief and thus, it has been argued,
cannot be explained away in pragmatic terms proposed by the MI camp.
Both sides in this debate seem to have strong and relevant, but mutually exclu-
sive, arguments. But this mutual exclusivity is only apparent. In fact, it is based on
one dubious premise. Notice that the classical approaches assume that conditionals
have something to do with the logical operator MI (premise 1). They also assume
that logic deals with necessary principles – these don’t describe any particular mind,
rather the supra-personal human mind (premise 2). Furthermore, they assume that
linguistic semantics is constituted by some supra-personal content (premise 3). So,
given that MI has something to do with language (premise 1), it must be supra-­
personally encoded in language. From this perspective, the logical operators are the
most elegant candidates for the supra-personal encoded semantics.
Now, in the previous chapters, I have argued that premise 3 cannot be main-
tained. Consequently, the conclusion in the argument above must be rejected. In this
5  The Meaning of if
107
chapter, I will begin to argue that the apparent mutual exclusivity of the pro-MI and
anti-MI approaches arises due to the problematic assumption that there is or should
be such a thing as encoded linguistic semantics. Once this assumption is removed,
we can begin to consider other ways in which conditionals may ‘have something to
do’ with the logical operator MI, without compromising MI’s claims to supra-­
personality. In Chap. 6 I will continue discussing this issue.
Moving beyond MI, the final section of the chapter deals with a very important
assumption which is made by both truth-functional and non-truth-functional
approaches, namely the assumption that a conditional is false if the antecedent is
true but the consequent false  – what I’ll refer to as the ∼(p & ∼q) constraint.
Analysing conditional promises and threats, I show that the ∼(p & ∼q) constraint
does not uniformly apply to all conditional inducements – whether it does or does
not depends on holistic assumptions of the interlocutors. Thus the ∼(p & ∼q) con-
straint cannot be a linguistic semantic constraint. I will argue that a socio-cognitive
approach, one which foregrounds the interlocutors’ holistic states of mind offers a
more explanatory account of conditional inducements than one which assumes MI
or the ∼(p & ∼q) constraint as the encoded semantics of conditionals.
For brevity, I use the term ‘encoded semantics’ to mean linguistic semantics
purportedly encoded by a given expression and thus deterministically decoded in
the process of interpretation of an uttered expression.
5.2  
Material Implication as the Encoded Semantics of if
In Sect. 5.2.1, I introduce the logical operator of MI and then, in Sect. 5.2.2, explain
why it has been argued that MI constitutes the encoded semantics of if. The discus-
sion focuses on indicative conditionals. The main reason for this limitation is that,
as I intend to show, the variation found in the interpretation of this group of condi-
tionals suffices to show that my general argument put forward in previous chapters,
that semantic content is holistic and accessible solely through pragmatic inference,
applies to conditionals. I use ‘⊃’ for material implication, ‘&’ for conjunction, ‘v’
for disjunction, ‘~’ for negation, ‘≡’ for equivalence and ‘├’ for entailment.
5.2.1  
Facts About Material Implication
MI ‘⊃’ connects two propositions p (the antecedent) and q (the consequent) such
that the truth value of the complex proposition (p⊃q) is a function of the truth values
of the propositions it operates on (p, q). MI is a truth-functional operator, i.e. noth-
ing other than the truth values of p and q are required to compute the truth value of
(p⊃q). The truth table for MI is given in (1) below.
5.2 
Material Implication as the Encoded Semantics of if
108
(1) p q p ⊃ q
1. T T T
2. T F F
3. F T T
4. F F T
This truth table states that (p⊃q) is false (F) in situation 2, where the antecedent
is true and the consequent false, and true (T) in all other situations. Thus, it follows
that MI can be defined in terms of negation and conjunction as well as negation and
disjunction in the following way.
(2) (a) (p⊃q) ≡ ~(p&~q)
(b) (p⊃q) ≡ (~p) v q
As illustrated by (2b), the falsity of p or the truth of q entails the truth of the implica-
tion ([~p ├ (p⊃q)]; [q├ (p⊃q)]).
The truth table for MI licences two inferences: Modus Ponens and Modus
Tollens, represented in (3) and (4) respectively.
(3) Modus Ponens (4) Modus Tollens
1. p ⊃ q 1. p ⊃ q
2. p 2. ~q
3. q 3. ~p
According to Modus Ponens, if (p⊃q) and p is T, it follows that q is T. According to
Modus Tollens, if (p⊃q) and q is F, it follows that p is F.
From the truth table for MI nothing follows about the truth value of p from the
truth of q or about the truth value of q from the falsity of p. This means that if (p⊃q)
and q is T, the inference to the truth of p is invalid and that if (p⊃q) and p is F, the
inference to the falsity of q is invalid. These invalid inferences, which are called the
Fallacy of Affirming the Consequent (FAC) and the Fallacy of Denying the
Antecedent (FDA) respectively, are represented in (5) and (6).
(5) FAC (6) FDA
1. p ⊃ q 1. p ⊃ q
2. q  2. ~p
3. p 3. ~q
5.2.2  
Truth-Functional Semantics of ‘if’
It has been argued (e.g. Grice 1989; Smith and Smith 1988; Noh 2000) that MI
constitutes the encoded semantics of natural language connective if. In this section,
I explain why such claims have been made.
5  The Meaning of if
109
The aim of truth-functional approaches to conditionals (e.g. Grice 1989) is to
show that the truth-conditions of ‘if… then’ sentences are of a truth-functional kind.
If this can be shown, the semantics of conditional statements can be explained in
terms of MI.
Crucially, the claim that MI constitutes the encoded semantics of if rests on the
assumption that any deviation from MI in the interpretation of conditionals can be
explained in terms of pragmatic principles. In the Gricean tradition, any such prag-
matic deviation should be amenable to an explanation in terms of the conversational
Cooperative Principle.
I first introduce Grice’s distinction between semantics and pragmatics as well as
his Cooperative Principle (Sect. 5.2.2.1). In Sect. 5.2.2.2, I discuss examples whose
interpretation seems to be predicted by MI in a straightforward way. In Sect. 5.2.2.3,
I look at Grice’s analysis of some non-truth-conditional aspects of meaning of utter-
ances of if (his Indirectness Condition) in terms of conversational implicature.
Section 5.2.2.4 deals with biconditional (if and only if) interpretations of condition-
als and Sect. 5.2.2.5 with a relevance theoretic account of metarepresentational uses
in conditionals.
5.2.2.1  
Grice’s Semantics and Pragmatics
Grice’s (1989) distinction between semantics and pragmatics can be defined in
terms of the following list of dichotomies (adapted from Burton-Roberts 2005).
Semantics ~ Pragmatics
What is said ~ What is implicated
Explicit ~ Implicit
Context-free ~ Context-sensitive
Truth-conditional ~ Non-truth-conditional
For Grice, semantically encoded content is the truth-conditional content of a word
and any expression composed of words. In uttering an expression, the speaker com-
mits herself to the expression’s semantically encoded content (what is said); this
means that such content cannot be cancelled without contradicting what the speaker
is committed to in uttering that expression. For Grice, semantic content (i.e. what is
said) is context-invariant and it is explicitly communicated. In contrast, pragmat-
ics deals with non-truth-conditional, context-dependent aspects of ‘meaning’.
Because of the non-truth-conditional relation of what is pragmatically inferred to
what is linguistically encoded (i.e. explicit), pragmatically communicated aspects
of ‘meaning’ can be cancelled without contradicting what was said. Pragmatically
communicated aspects of ‘meaning’ are not said/explicated but implicated by the
saying of what is said/explicated. Consider the following example:
(7) a) Tom got up and read a paper.
b) Tom got up and then read a paper.
c) Tom got up and read a paper, but not in that order.
5.2 
Material Implication as the Encoded Semantics of if
110
For Grice, the word and semantically encodes the logical functor of conjunction.
Accordingly, (7a) semantically encodes and hence explicitly communicates only
that both conjuncts are true. Any suggested temporal (or causal) link between the
two conjuncts (7b) is non-truth-conditionally linked to what is explicitly communi-
cated and so can be cancelled without contradicting what is said/explicated (as in
(7c)). For this reason, the temporal link (7b) is, for Grice, implicitly communi-
cated – it is an implicature.
The implicature communicated by the use of and in (7) is classified by Grice as
a Generalised Conversational Implicature (GCI). This kind of implicature is attached
to specific lexical items and arises generally, i.e. regardless of the particularities of
a given context (Grice 1989: 37, Levinson 1983: 126). Nevertheless, it is context-­
dependent in the sense that it can be cancelled in a particular context, as shown in
(7c).
Another type of conversational implicature proposed by Grice is a Particularised
Conversational Implicature (PCI). PCIs are implicated by exploiting the contexts in
which utterances that give rise to them occur – were it not for the particular context,
these implicatures would not arise. Consider (8).
(8) a) A: Are you hungry?
 
B: I’ve had breakfast.
b) B has had breakfast today.
c) I’ve had breakfast – in my life, but not today.
d) B is not hungry.
e) I’ve had breakfast, but actually I’m still hungry.
B’s utterance in (8a) gives rise to the implicature in (8b) – given that breakfast is a
daily occurrence, when people say they have had breakfast they are generally taken
to communicate that they have had breakfast on the day of the utterance. Because
the implicature in (8b) would arise even in the absence of A’s question in (8a) – i.e.
particular context is not necessary for it to arise – it can be classified as a GCI. This
GCI is cancellable, as shown in (8c). But B’s answer in (8a) can also give rise to the
PCI in (8d). It is a PCI because it can be derived only in the particular context of A’s
question – take away A’s question and the PCI does not arise. Because PCIs are
pragmatically derived, they too can be cancelled without contradicting what was
said/explicated, as shown in (8e).
The question that needs to be answered now is how conversational implicatures
arise in the first place. To answer this question, Grice (1989) proposes that in con-
versation there is a tacit agreement between interlocutors to cooperate. This tacit
agreement is explained by Grice in terms of a Cooperative Principle, a set of four
Maxims – Quantity, Quality, Relation and Manner – which speakers exploit (by
obeying or flouting them) in order to give rise to implicatures.
The maxim of Quantity concerns the quantity of information to be provided in
conversation. It is divided into the following two sub-maxims:
5  The Meaning of if
111
	(i)	 Make your contribution as informative as required (for the current purposes of
the exchange)
	
(ii)	 Do not make your contribution more informative than is required1
The maxim of Quality states to make one’s contribution true and its two sub-­maxims
are:
	(i)	 Do not say what you believe is false
	
(ii)	 Do not say that for which you lack adequate evidence
The maxim of Relation states to make one’s contribution relevant and the maxim of
Manner to be perspicuous. This last maxim is further subdivided into:
	 (i)	 Avoid obscurity of expression
	(ii)	 Avoid ambiguity
	
(iii)	 Be brief (avoid unnecessary prolixity)
	(iv)	 Be orderly
Given Grice’s Cooperative Principle, the derivation of the GCI in (7) (Tom got up
and read a paper) can be explained in terms of the maxim of Manner. By saying ‘S1
and S2’ the speaker of (7) is implicating and then because the speaker is assuming
that the hearer takes her to be observing the maxim of Manner and thus will be able
to infer that the speaker is presenting the events in a orderly way.
As for the PCI in (8), it can be explained in the following way. Speaker B in (8)
(A: Are you hungry?; B: I’ve had breakfast) is implicating that she is not hungry by
exploiting the maxim of Relation – B assumes that A takes her to be observing the
maxim of Relation and will thus be able to infer that B’s answer is relevant to A’s
question.
In the following sections, I discuss Grice’s (1989) claim that if semantically
encodes the logical functor MI and the related assumption that any deviation from
MI in the interpretation of conditionals can be explained in terms of the Cooperative
Principle.
5.2.2.2  Simple Cases
Let us look at the extent to which natural language conditional sentences correspond
to MI. Consider (9) below (taken from Edgington 2008).
(9) If it’s a square, it has four sides.
Let us refer to the if-clause as the ‘antecedent’, the matrix clause as the ‘consequent’
and the complex statement they together constitute as a ‘conditional’. Now, if the
1
 Grice (1989: 26–27) suggests that the second sub-maxim is disputable because its transgression
merely amounts to ‘a waste of time’ or because its effect can be explained by the maxim of
Relation.
5.2 
Material Implication as the Encoded Semantics of if
112
word if is truth-functional, we should be able to predict the truth value of the condi-
tional from the truth values of the antecedent and the consequent. For (9), this pre-
diction seems to be borne out. If both the antecedent and the consequent are true, the
conditional is true. If the antecedent is true but the consequent is false, the condi-
tional is false (it is impossible for a square not to have four sides). If the antecedent
is false, the conditional is true regardless of the truth value of the consequent (if
something is not a square, it may or may not have four sides). Consider also condi-
tional (10), whose consequent is patently false, and (11), whose antecedent is neces-
sarily true.
(10) If Rachel can drive a truck, then I am Mickey Mouse.
(11) If two plus two equals four, then my client is innocent.
In using (10), the speaker is communicating that she does not believe in Rachel’s
ability to drive a truck. This interpretation can be modelled by MI; on the assump-
tion that the speaker of (10) is thereby saying something true (abiding by Grice’s
maxim of Quality) and given that the consequent is patently false, the antecedent
has got to be false if (10) is to be true. As for (11), the speaker here is communicat-
ing that it is certain that her client is innocent. This interpretation too can be mod-
elled by MI; on the assumption that the speaker of (11) is saying something true and
given that the antecedent is necessarily true, it follows from the truth table for MI
that the consequent has got to be true as well; that it is as certain that the speaker’s
client is innocent as it is certain that two plus two equals four.
5.2.2.3  Indirectness Condition
Conditionals are generally used to communicate more than (p⊃q). For example, in
(9) there seems to be a consequential relation between x being a square (p) and x
having four sides (q) such that the truth of q can be inferred from the truth of p.
Grice (1989: 58) refers to this extra, non-truth-functional, aspect of ‘meaning’ asso-
ciated with conditionals as the Indirectness Condition and points out that this
condition can be formulated in different ways: ‘that p would, in the circumstances,
be a good reason for q’, ‘that q is inferable from p’, ‘that there are non-truth-­
functional grounds for accepting p⊃q’.
In order to maintain the claim that semantics of if is truth-functional, Grice needs
to show that the Indirectness Condition is not part of the semantics of if, but that it
is pragmatically inferred. In particular, Grice (1989: 60) argues that the Indirectness
Condition is a GCI – it arises generally, but it is cancellable. Consider (12).
(12) If you put that bit of sugar in water, it will dissolve.
Grice (ibid.) argues that the Indirectness Condition GCI can be cancelled by adding
a clause such as ‘though so far as I know there can be no way of knowing in advance
5  The Meaning of if
113
that this will happen’. The addition of the cancellation clause, he goes on to argue,
marks (12) as a guess or prophecy.
Another reason for analysing the Indirectness Condition as an implicature is that
it is not always present. Grice offers the conditional clause in (13) as an example.
(13) Perhaps if he comes, he will be in a good mood.
There are two possible interpretations of (13). On the first one, the Indirectness
Condition is present and the speaker is, in Grice’s terms, implicating that p will be
a reason for believing q. On the second interpretation, there is no Indirectness
Condition implicature and the speaker is simply communicating something to the
effect of ‘he will happen to be in a good mood’ – p merely materially implies q and
there is no other relation between p and q beyond consistency.
But how does the Indirectness Condition arise (when it is present)? Grice (1989:
61–62) argues that to say/explicate the very general (p⊃q) is not normally taken to
be informative enough. Thus the saying/explicating of (p⊃q) gives rise to the
assumption that the speaker is breaking the maxim of Quantity.2
That, however, is
counterbalanced by the assumption that the speaker is doing so because she is obey-
ing the maxim of Quality, which states that one should have adequate evidence for
what one is saying. The evidence in question is the Indirectness Condition. Grice’s
(ibid.) proposal thus is that the saying/explicating of (p⊃q) implicates that there is
some evidence for the saying of it, i.e. that there is some non-truth-functional rela-
tion between the antecedent and the consequent.
Based on such arguments, Grice argues that the Indirectness Condition is not part
of the semantics of if and that the semantics of if is truth-functional. However, Grice
(1989: 77) concedes that ‘generally or at least in special contexts [it might be]
impossible for a rational speaker to employ the conditional form unless, at least in
his view, not merely the truth-table requirements are satisfied but also some strong
connection [i.e. the Indirectness Condition] holds’. I return to this point in Sect. 5.3.
5.2.2.4  Conditional Perfection
Another common interpretation of conditionals which is stronger than (p⊃q) is the
biconditional (i.e. if and only if) interpretation. Consider the following examples:
(14) If you pass the exam, I’ll take you to a restaurant.
(15) If you do something illegal, we’ll lock you up.
It may be argued that in uttering (14) the speaker is not actually (semantically) mak-
ing any undertaking as to what she will do if the hearer fails the exam, only what she
2
 The Indirectness Condition implicature also seems to involve the assumption of breaking Relation.
Grice (ibid.), however, does not mention the maxim of Relation in this context.
5.2 
Material Implication as the Encoded Semantics of if
114
will do if the hearer passes the exam. This would make the interpretation of (14)
compatible with the truth table for MI. According to MI, the promise is not broken
if there is a meal following a passed exam (situation 1), if there is a meal despite a
failed exam (situation 3 – the speaker did not say what she would do if the hearer
failed the exam) and if there is no meal because of a failed exam (situation 4). The
promise is only broken if the exam is passed but there is no meal (situation 2).
The same analysis is available for (15), where the conditional is used to make a
threat. It can be argued that the speaker of (15) is not actually saying what she will
do if the hearer refrains from doing something illegal, only what she will do if the
hearer does something illegal. This leaves open a possibility that the speaker will
lock the hearer up even though he does not do anything illegal.
However, as pointed out by Geiss and Zwiky (1971): 652), the human mind has
a tendency to ‘perfect conditionals to biconditionals’. In other words, ‘a sentence of
the form X ⊃ Y invites an inference of the form ~X ⊃ ~Y’ – an inference modelled
by equivalence. This tendency for conditional perfection is manifest in exam-
ples like (14) and (15).
It has been argued that the phenomenon of conditional perfection (also known as
biconditional strengthening, i.e. strengthening of if to iff) can be analysed in
terms of Grice’s conversational implicature (Comrie 1986; van der Auwera 1997).
In particular, van der Auwera (1997) argues that it can be analysed in terms of
Grice’s scalar quantity implicature, a kind of a GCI.
Scalar implicatures involve semantic scales of entailment – this is why they are
predictable generally, i.e. without reference to a particular conversational context.
For example, ‘p and q’ is on a semantic scale with ‘p or q’ such that ‘p and q’ entails
‘p or q’. This semantic scale allows one to predict that by saying ‘p or q’ the speaker
is conversationally implicating that, as far as the speaker knows, the stronger claim
does not obtain, i.e. that ‘it is not the case that p and q’.
Since the phenomenon of conditional perfection involves, it is assumed, a
strengthening of material implication (p⊃q) to equivalence (p≡q), and since (p≡q)
entails (p⊃q), the scale involving these two logical functors is the first one to inves-
tigate. However, the problem for the assumption that the [(p≡q) ├ (p⊃q)] scale is
involved in conditional perfection is that the use of if in examples like (14) and (15)
does not communicate the negation of the stronger if and only if (henceforth iff) by
which it is entailed, but the assertion of it. This has led Levinson (e.g. Levinson
1983: 146–147) to suggest that at work here is a principle of informativeness, which
in some circumstances allows speakers to implicate more than what is explicitly
communicated. This principle is linked to the second sub-maxim of Quantity, which
states that one should not make one’s contribution more informative than required.
However, Levinson concedes that it still needs to be explained why conditional
perfection arises in some, but not all, circumstances.
Indeed, van der Auwera (1997: 267) criticises the principle of informativeness
for its triviality; in principle, it should be at work whenever what is implicated
involves what is said/explicated plus more. Van der Auwera (1997: 262) argues that
the strengthening of if to iff can be explained in terms of Grice’s scalar GCI with
reference to the following scale:
5  The Meaning of if
115
(16) …
if p, q and if r, q and if s, q
if p, q and if r, q
if p, q
In this scale, the higher assertions entail the lower ones. Thus, by saying if p, q, one
is implicating that the conjunction of if p, q with another conditional which involves
a different antecedent (r) but the same consequent (q) does not obtain. In other
words, in saying if p, q, one is implicating that the truth of q does not follow from
any other antecedent but p; q is T iff p is true. In van der Auwera’s (1997: 262)
words, ‘when one supplies only the one sufficient condition p, one conversationally
implicates that there is no second – and no third, etc. – sufficient condition’.3,4
This
account, however, does not provide an answer to Levinson’s question: it is still not
clear under what circumstances this scalar implicature would arise.
Another problem with the assumption (van der Auwera’s and Levinson’s) that
the iff interpretation can be explained with reference to a semantic scale is that sca-
lar inference depends on the elements which form a scale being lexical items (e.g.
Levinson 1983: 133), as is the case with and and or, all and some or excellent and
good. But even though equivalence entails MI, equivalence is not lexicalised in
English5
(or any other language). Thus, the biconditional interpretation cannot be
explained with reference to semantic scales.
A complicating factor is that the strong interpretation is not restricted to any
homogenous group of conditionals. Consider (14) and (15), repeated below for
convenience.
(14) If you pass the exam, I’ll take you to a restaurant.
(15) If you do something illegal, we’ll lock you up.
Comrie (1986: 78) argues that the strong interpretation is natural with prohibitives,
of which the threat in (15) is an example. However, as exemplified by (14), this
interpretation is also found with promises. Furthermore, some uses of conditionals
to communicate general truths (so-called ‘universal conditionals’) may also involve
the strong interpretation, as in (17), whereas others do not, as in (18).
3
 Even though van der Auwera (1997) explains conditional perfection in terms of Grice’s GCI, van
der Auwera (1985) argues that if semantically encodes more in a way of relation between p and q
than offered by a truth-functional account. For van der Auwera (1985), if semantically encodes a
non-truth-functional sufficiency condition (that ‘p is a sufficient condition for q’). However,
because the effect of van der Auwera’s (1997) conditional perfection GCI can be stated with refer-
ence to the sufficiency condition (one implicates that there is no other sufficient condition) or
without reference to it (one implicates that the truth of q does not follow from any other antecedent
but p), I assume that there is no relevant difference between the two approaches in this respect.
4
 In other words, this scale is supposed to account for the implicature that a given sufficient condi-
tion is in fact necessary (see e.g. Horn 2000).
5
 The closest English gets to equivalence is if and only if.
5.2 
Material Implication as the Encoded Semantics of if
116
(17) Water heated at an altitude below 600 m begins to boil if it reaches 100 °C.
(18) If it’s a square, it has four sides.
The difference between (17) and (18) is that whereas in (17) the falsity of q follows
from the falsity of p (Denying the Antecedent), which is consistent with the strong
interpretation, in (18) nothing about the truth value of q follows from the falsity of
p. This is consistent with the weak, but not strong, interpretation. To complicate
things more, (19) (due to Horn 2000: 319) and (20) are examples of conditional
injunctions involving the strong interpretation.
(19) If thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out.
(20) If there is no other choice, amputate his leg.
But, arguably, not all conditional injunctions involve the strong interpretation.
Consider (21).
(21) If you press the red button, the conveyor belt will stop.
In (21), unlike in (19) and (20), the speaker may be taken to communicate that mak-
ing p true is sufficient rather than necessary for the truth of q.
As a possible solution to the puzzle of how the strong interpretation arises let us
consider a post-Gricean proposal within the framework of Relevance Theory (Smith
1983; Smith and Smith 1988), where the strong interpretation is treated as an expli-
cature, i.e. a pragmatic development of the encoded logical form of the sentence
uttered.As in other accounts, the strong interpretation arises by virtue of strengthen-
ing the encoded MI to material equivalence via conditional perfection (henceforth
CP). However, this proposal is much more clearly elaborated in that it explains the
strong interpretation against the backcloth of processing effect and effort. Smith and
Smith (1988) argue that CP can be explained in terms of Relevance Theory’s prin-
ciple of optimal relevance, which is construed in terms of the interaction between
the number of positive cognitive effects and processing effort (Sperber and Wilson
1995). Thus, in uttering “if p, q”, the speaker is communicating that (~p⊃~q) for the
following reason: if the speaker believed that (p⊃q) and that (~p⊃q), optimal rele-
vance would be achieved just by the utterance of “q”. Indeed, if, for example, the
speaker of (14) (If you pass the exam, I’ll take you to a restaurant) intended to take
the hearer to the restaurant (q is T) regardless of whether the hearer passes the exam
or not (p is T/F), the speaker would non-optimally increase the hearer’s processing
effort by uttering “if p”. Because the speaker went into the effort of uttering “if p”,
the hearer assumes, in line with the principle of optimal relevance, that p must be
relevant to q: by uttering “if p”, the speaker of (14) communicates, and the hearer
takes the speaker to communicate, that q if and only if p.
A similar argument is put forward by Horn (2000). For Horn, CP is explained in
terms of the R principle, a pragmatic principle orientated to reducing the speaker’s
effort: because the conditional assertion of if p then q ‘contains extra information’
5  The Meaning of if
117
(when compared with the assertion of bare q), it follows that p must be taken as
relevant. According to Horn, what makes a condition relevant is its (communicated)
necessity.
However, though initially plausible, Smith and Smith’s and Horn’s accounts, like
that proposed by van der Auwera, also seem to overapply. For example, in (18) (If
it’s a square, it has four sides), just like in (14) (If you pass the exam, I’ll take you
to a restaurant), the speaker has uttered “if p”. Accordingly, the utterance of “if p”
in (18) should give rise to and be made in aid of giving rise to the (optimally rele-
vant) strong interpretation. However, the knowledge of the existence of rectangles
simply rules out the strong interpretation of (18). Thus, even though Smith and
Smith’s, Horn’s and van der Auwera’s accounts have a way of explaining why the
strong interpretation arises, the problem is that they incorrectly predict it should
always arise and thus that the weak interpretation should not be possible. Thus, it
remains to be explained under what conditions this interpretation arises.
5.2.2.5  
Relevance Theory on Metarepresentational Uses of Conditionals
The claim that MI constitutes the encoded semantics of if has been challenged by
what has been referred to as ‘speech act domain’ (Sweetser 1990) conditionals or
‘metarepresentational’ (Noh 2000, subsuming Horn’s 1989 ‘metalinguistic’) condi-
tionals. Consider (22) (due to Noh 2000: 199).
(22) [The door bell is ringing.]
Mary to Jane: If that’s John, I’m not here.
Given that Mary is in the location referred to by here, MI incorrectly predicts that
the conditional in (22) should be true where the antecedent and the consequent are
true. Relatedly, in (22) it is impossible to infer the truth of q from the truth of p or
the falsity of p from the patent falsity of q. This means that the inference rules of MP
and MT, which are licensed by MI, do not apply to this example.
As observed by Noh (2000: 178–179), conditionals with so-called ‘given’ ante-
cedents, i.e. antecedents which are recoverable from context or known/accepted by
the speaker and hearer, also often resist a truth-functional analysis. Consider (23).
(23) A: Two and eleven makes thirty.
B: If two and eleven makes thirty, you need more work on maths.
The problem posed by this example is that the antecedent of B’s answer in (23) is
false. The truth table for MI predicts that if the antecedent is false, it does not matter
whether the consequent is true or false for the whole utterance to be true. However,
Noh (1996, 2000: 189) observes that this simply is a wrong interpretation because
B in (23) clearly is communicating that the hearer needs more work on maths, i.e.
that the consequent is true.
5.2 
Material Implication as the Encoded Semantics of if
118
Noh (1996, 2000) goes on to argue that the relevance-theoretic notion of meta-
representation actually allows one to retain MI as the encoded semantics of if even
in examples like (22) and (23).
In Relevance Theory, the notion of metarepresentation involves the use of one
representation to represent another, e.g. an attributed utterance or thought, which it
resembles (e.g. Noh 2000: 185, 186). Following Sperber and Wilson (1995), Noh
(2000: 73) argues that resemblance is to be understood in terms of sharing analytic
and contextual implications in a given context. Metarepresentation may resemble
the metarepresented object in terms of content or form. Uses which exploit resem-
blance of content are called interpretive uses, and those which exploit resem-
blance of form are called metalinguistic uses. Consider the  examples below,
taken from Noh (2000).
(24) [The material in brackets represents American pronunciation of tomatoes]
A: I like tom[eiDouz]
B: If you like tom[eiDouz], you must be from America.
(25) A: I loved her.
B: If you loved her, why didn’t you come to the party?
(26) [A is talking to B about her meeting with her supervisor]
A: Then what did she say?
B: The argument is invalid.
Example (24) involves a metalinguistic antecedent; here B does not metarepresent
the content of A’s utterance but its pronunciation.6
This means that the attribution of
pronunciation is included in the proposition expressed in the antecedent: the propo-
sition expressed is something like ‘If you like things you call ‘tom[eiDouz]” or ‘If
you say you eat ‘tom[eiDouz]” (Noh 2000: 190). Noh (2000: 187–189) argues that
(25) and (26) are interpretive uses. In (25), the antecedent of B’s conditional meta-
represents the proposition expressed byA’s utterance. More specifically, Noh (2000:
187) argues that the antecedent metarepresents A’s utterance including the higher-­
level explicature of ‘if you say/believe that …’. (26) is similar to (25) in that it is an
interpretive use, but different in that it does not involve the interpretation of A’s
utterance but the previous utterance(s) of the speaker’s supervisor. Noh (1996,
2000) argues that reanalysing certain conditionals in terms of attributive metarepre-
sentational use provides a more explanatory and uniform account of their semantics
and pragmatics. In fact, she argues that a metarepresentational approach allows one
to maintain MI as the encoded semantics of all uses of if.
Importantly, Noh (2000: 189, 203, 211) argues that the truth value of a metarep-
resentational use is not established with respect to the truth value of what is meta-
represented but with respect to the faithfulness of the metarepresentation to the
metarepresented content or form. For example, B’s utterance in (26) is true if and
only if it is ‘a faithful enough interpretation of what [B’s] supervisor said’ (Noh
2000: 189).
6
 Other metalinguistic uses involve metarepresenting morphology, word stress, etc.
5  The Meaning of if
119
Noh’s point is best illustrated by example (23) (A: Two and eleven makes thirty;
B: If two and eleven makes thirty, you need more work on maths). As discussed, the
truth-functional relation between the antecedent and the consequent of (23B) cannot
hold at the descriptive level – i.e. between the content of ‘two and eleven makes
thirty’ and ‘you need more work on maths’ – because it does not explain how B is
communicating that the consequent is T. On Noh’s (2000: 187) metarepresenta-
tional account, however, the antecedent in (23B) is used to metarepresent A’s
­
utterance including the higher-level explicature of ‘if you say/believe that …’. At
that meta-level, the antecedent is in fact true: whereas ‘two and eleven makes thirty’
is false, ‘you say/believe that two and eleven makes thirty’ comes out as true.
According to the truth table for MI, if the antecedent is true, the consequent has got
to be true for the conditional to be true. For Noh, this explains why B in (23) is com-
municating that the consequent is T and allows maintaining the truth-functional
semantics of if.
Similarly, Noh (2000: 199) argues that a metarepresentational treatment in terms
of MI is available for (22) (If that’s John, I’m not here). In this example, it is the
consequent, not the antecedent, which receives a metarepresentational analysis.
Noh (2000: 199) argues that the consequent in (22) is metarepresenting ‘an utter-
ance which the speaker wants the hearer to make in the situation described by the
antecedent’. This, according to Noh (2000: 204), allows one to treat the relation
between the proposition ‘that’s John’ and the higher-level explicature ‘you tell him
I’m not here’ in truth-functional terms; the hearer of (22) is being requested to make
the conditional true by making sure that q is T in a situation in which p is T.
However, there are problems with Noh’s metarepresentational analysis. I discuss
them in Sect. 5.3.2.5.
5.3  Why if Does Not Encode Material Implication
In this section, I argue that there are two general reasons why the claim that if
encodes MI cannot be maintained. In Sect. 5.3.1, I discuss Edgington’s (2008)
observation that certain conditional beliefs deviate from MI. In Sect. 5.3.2, I discuss
the problem of pragmatic intrusion into encoded semantics. I argue that contrary to
claims made in Carston (2002: 99–100), Relevance Theory’s re-analysis of Grice’s
explicit-implicit distinction does not resolve this problem.
5.3.1  
Divergences from Material Implication at the Level
of Belief
In Sects. 5.2.2.3 and 5.2.2.4, I discussed how, in the Gricean tradition, divergences
from MI in the interpretation of conditionals have been explained in conversational
terms. Some explanation has also been offered within the framework of Relevance
5.3 Why if Does Not Encode Material Implication
120
Theory (Smith and Smith 1988). For example, one of the problems for truth-­
functional approaches is the logical fact that, since ~(p⊃q) is equivalent to (p&~q),
~(p⊃q) entails the truth of its antecedent. Inconsistently with this logical fact, when
someone says that ‘It’s not the case that if the peace treaty is signed, war will be
avoided’, they are not communicating that the peace treaty will be signed. Thus,
facts about what is communicated by the use of a conditional are at odds with the
facts of logic.
Now, Smith and Smith (1988: 334) argue that there is a simple relevance-­theoretic
solution to this problem. For them, a speaker who wanted to use ~(p⊃q) with ‘the
conjunctive force’ of (p&~q) would not be observing the principle of relevance as it
puts the hearer to unjustifiable effort. For this reason, Smith & Smith (ibid.) argue
that the use of ~(p⊃q) would not normally be interpreted as the assertion of what
they call ‘the troublesome conjunction’.
However, Edgington (1995, 2008) observes that certain divergences from MI in
the interpretation of conditionals – including ‘the troublesome conjunction’ – can-
not be explained in terms of conversational principles simply because they take
place at the level of belief rather than in conversation.7
In particular, the problem for
an MI analysis arises due to the fact that, in thinking about the world, people often
accept and reject propositions with different degrees of certainty.
Edgington (1995, 2008) considers a scenario in which a person A does not
believe that ‘If the Republicans win, income tax will double’ and does not believe
that ‘the Republicans will win’. In other words, A rejects both (p⊃q) and p. In
rejecting these, A accepts both ~(p⊃q) and ~p, which are logically contradictory.
Now, one of the logical facts about MI is that its truth is entailed by the falsity of its
antecedent: ~p ├ (p⊃q). Since ~p ├ (p⊃q), MI predicts that a disbelief in
Republicans’ winning (i.e. ~p) entails a belief that if they win, income tax will
double (i.e. (p⊃q)). But this is not the case with A’s beliefs; inconsistently with MI
but nevertheless rationally, A can be almost certain that Republicans won’t win (i.e.
certain that ~p), and find it unlikely that if they win, they will double income tax (i.e.
certain that ~(p⊃q)). The logical facts about MI are at odds with what a rational
person can consistently believe or disbelieve – this, according to Edgington, cannot
be explained in terms of conversational principles. Consequently, if Edgington’s
argument is right, Smith and Smith’s (1988) relevance-theoretic proposal cannot
explain why a cogniser may, contrary to the logic of MI but nevertheless rationally,
not believe that the peace treaty will be signed and at the same time not believe that
if the peace treaty is signed, war will be avoided.8
The problems discussed above arise in virtue of one of the paradoxes of MI,
namely that the falsity of the antecedent is sufficient for the truth of the implication
(hence, ~p ├ (p⊃q)). In fact, this paradox is an example of a more general paradox
of MI, namely that a falsity or a contradiction materially implies any and hence
7
 But see Douven (2010) for an argument that the same pragmatic principles apply at the level of
assertion and the level of belief.
8
 In the light of Edgington’s argument, neither can this fact be explained away in terms of Gricean
Conversational Implicature.
5  The Meaning of if
121
every proposition. This problem arises for truth-functional as well as non-truth-­
functional accounts of the encoded semantics of if (Edgington 2008). On non-truth-­
functional accounts, the conditional operator is modal (e.g. Stalnaker 1975; van der
Auwera 1985), which means that the truth value of a conditional cannot be pre-
dicted solely from the truth values of the simple propositions on which it operates.
Non-truth-functionalists agree with truth-functionalists that when the antecedent is
T but the consequent F, the conditional is F. However, they do not agree that the
truth value of a conditional can be logically deduced in other situations. For exam-
ple, van der Auwera (1985) requires some consequential relation (corresponding to
Grice’s Indirectness Condition) to hold between p and q for if p then q to be T. This
means that non-truth-functional approaches, like truth-functional approaches, make
no prediction as to the truth value of the consequent when the antecedent is F (i.e.
[~p ├ (p⊃q)] is valid on both approaches). Consequently, Edgington argues that the
problem with conditional beliefs arises for non-truth-functional approaches just as
it does for truth-functional approaches.
Moving on to conversational contexts, Edgington (1995, 2008) discusses the
application of MI to conditional commands. Consider the following example:
(27) If the patient is still alive in the morning, change the dressing.
Since (p⊃q) ≡ (~p v q), the command to make (27) true is logically equivalent to
‘Make it the case that the patient is not alive in the morning, or you change the
dressing’. Given that a disjunction is T if at least one of the disjuncts is T, a nurse
may argue, on logical grounds, to have obeyed the command by making sure that
the patient is not alive in the morning (~p is T) and not changing the dressing (q is
F).
Edgington (ibid.) observes that a truth-functional theorist may appeal to prag-
matics in the resolution of the problem with conditional commands; it may be
argued that the hearer of (27) ‘tacitly understands’ that killing the patient is not a
reasonable or intended way to make the truth-functional conditional true. However,
Edgington dismisses such a pragmatic explanation as unconvincing on the grounds
that it is ‘stretching pragmatics rather far’. In Sect. 5.3.2, I focus the discussion on
conversational contexts and strengthen Edgington’s claim by arguing that semantico-­
pragmatic accounts stretch pragmatics too far to be consistent with the claim that
MI constitutes the encoded semantics of if.
5.3.2  
Pragmatic Intrusion into Encoded Semantics
As discussed in Sect. 5.2.2.1, Grice’s semantics-pragmatics distinction can be
defined as follows:
–
– Semantics concerns the content of what is said/explicitly communicated; it is
context-free and truth-conditional
5.3 Why if Does Not Encode Material Implication
122
–
– Pragmatics concerns the content which is not said but implicated (i.e. implicitly
communicated); it is context-sensitive and non-truth-conditional with respect to
what is said (the semantics)
However, Grice’s distinction between semantics and pragmatics and hence between
explicit and implicit communication is problematic. In what follows, I discuss some
problems with Grice’s distinction and its relevance to the study of conditionals.
5.3.2.1  Grice’s Circle
Burton-Roberts (2005) argues that Grice’s notion of what-is-said, and hence of what
is explicitly communicated, is vague with respect to two types of saying: A-saying
and B-saying. A-saying is the saying-of-“s”, i.e. it concerns the words uttered.
B-saying is the saying-that-p, i.e. it involves an assessment of the explicitly com-
municated thought. Consider the following examples:
(28) It’s twelve.
(29) It’s cold.
(30) Jest zimno. [Polish translation of It’s cold]
In uttering (28), two people can A-say the same thing (i.e. utter the words “It’s
twelve”), but B-say different things; e.g. one can B-say that it is midday and the
other that it is midnight. Conversely, different A-sayings represented in (29) and
(30) can be used to B-say the same thing, i.e. to explicitly communicate the thought
that it is cold.
The problem for Grice is that to determine what is B-said, one needs to do a lot
of pragmatic work, including reference assignment and disambiguation (Grice
1989: 25). Consider (31) below.
(31) She took it.
In order to determine what the speaker of (31) B-said, the hearer needs to pragmati-
cally derive (i.e. derive by reference to the context) the referents of she and it as well
as the particular concept communicated by the word take (e.g. ACCEPT as in take
the money or SWALLOW as in take the pill).
This Gricean problem of ‘pragmatic intrusion’ into what is semantically
encoded  – often referred to as ‘Grice’s circle’ (e.g. Levinson 2000: 186)  – has
important consequences for Gricean accounts of the semantics and pragmatics of
conditionals.
In Sect. 5.2.2.3, I discussed Grice’s analysis of a causal-consequential or inferen-
tial relation between the antecedent and the consequent (Grice’s Indirectness
Condition) in terms of a conversational implicature. Importantly, I pointed out
Grice’s (1989: 77) acknowledgement that the use of conditionals by a rational
speaker is motivated by the speaker’s assumption that there is some ‘strong’ connec-
tion (i.e. the Indirectness Condition) – and not merely the relation of MI – between
5  The Meaning of if
123
the antecedent and the consequent. Acknowledging this, I argue, amounts to
acknowledging the problem of pragmatic intrusion into semantics. Consider (21)
again, where the conditional is used to make an instruction.
(21) If you press the red button, the conveyor belt will stop.
Let us assume that in uttering (21) the speaker is instructing the hearer (an appren-
tice) how to stop a conveyor belt. If (21) is to be used as an instruction on how the
apprentice is supposed to stop the conveyor belt, the speaker must be communicat-
ing that there is a causal-consequential relation between the antecedent and the
consequent such that the truth of the consequent follows from the truth of the ante-
cedent.9
Arguably thus, the thought communicated by the speaker – what is B-said –
involves the assumption that the stopping of the conveyor belt is a consequence of
the pressing of the red button. In other words, what is B-said involves Grice’s
Indirectness Condition.
A similar problem arises on a Gricean analysis of the iff interpretation of condi-
tionals in terms of biconditional strengthening. Consider (32).
(32) I’ll tell you something interesting, if you promise to keep it a secret.
Arguably, the thought explicitly communicated by (32) – i.e. what is B-said – is not
that the speaker will tell the hearer something interesting regardless of whether the
hearer promises to keep it a secret or not (p⊃q), but if and only if the hearer makes
the relevant promise (p≡q). The problem for Grice is that if pragmatic processes are
involved in the derivation of what is B-said (as in (31) and (32)), then, for Grice,
pragmatic processes are involved in the derivation of semantic content. This Gricean
problem of pragmatic intrusion into semantics constitutes the driving force behind
Relevance Theory’s re-analysis of the explicit-implicit distinction. In the next sec-
tion, I give an outline of Relevance Theory’s re-analysis of this distinction. Its impli-
cations for the theory of conditionals are discussed in Sects. 5.3.2.3, 5.3.2.4 and
5.3.2.5.
5.3.2.2  
Relevance Theory’s Explicit-Implicit Distinction
Relevance Theory diverges significantly from Grice in claiming that what is linguis-
tically encoded does not equal what is explicit. In RT (e.g. Carston 1988, 2002),
explicitly communicated content (i.e. explicature) is derived on the basis of what is
linguistically semantically encoded and the context – the derivation of explicatures
9
 I return to this example in Chap. 6.
5.3 Why if Does Not Encode Material Implication
124
requires substantive pragmatic work. In particular, in order to derive the explicature,
the hearer needs to assign reference, disambiguate ambiguous terms, supply ellipsis
and derive ad hoc concepts from the purportedly encoded lexical concepts. In
acknowledging the importance of pragmatic processing in the derivation of explica-
tures, RT rejects Grice’s distinction between context-free linguistically encoded
semantics and context-sensitive pragmatics as defining of the explicit-implicit
distinction.
An explicature, in RT, constitutes what-is-said, but without identifying what-is-­
said with what is encoded (i.e. RT’s explicature equals B-said). Implicature, on the
other hand, is an implicitly communicated proposition which is pragmatically
derived on the basis of what is explicated and the context. In Sperber and Wilson’s
(1995: 182) words: ‘Any assumption communicated, but not explicitly so, is implic-
itly communicated: it is an implicature’. Whereas the speaker commits herself to
what is explicated (Carston 2002: 123–124), implicature is a risky inference in the
sense that, being implicitly rather than explicitly communicated, the speaker does
not necessarily endorse it. Given that, it is reasonable to expect that, since the speak-
er’s endorsement is present in the case of explicatures, they should not be
cancellable,10
and that implicatures, freed from such commitment, should all be
cancellable. This, however, is not the case.
In RT, an explicature is said to be a development of the encoded logical form
(LF) of the sentence uttered.11
Even though the notion of ‘development’ lies at the
heart of RT’s explicature-implicature distinction, it is not a clearly defined term. The
picture that emerges from Carston’s (1988) discussion is an account of development
in logical terms (Burton-Roberts 2005); a communicated proposition is a develop-
ment/enrichment of LF of an utterance if and only if it entails that LF. Thus, although
explicit does not equal encoded in RT, it still depends on what is encoded. As
observed by Burton-Roberts (2005: 397), this works in many, but not all, cases.
For example, Grice’s GCIs are in general re-analysed in RT’s terms as explica-
tures. Thus, the temporal order GCI involved in the interpretation of (7a) (Tom got
up and read the paper) is re-analysed as an explicature. This is because the prag-
matically enriched ‘and then’ entails what is encoded by and, i.e. the truth of both
conjuncts.12
Also, on the assumption that the iff interpretation of conditionals
involves the pragmatic strengthening of encoded MI to equivalence (as discussed in
Sect. 5.2.2.4), it has to be re-analysed in RT as an explicature because equivalence
entails MI (see e.g. Smith and Smith 1988: 333). Similarly, since the Indirectness
Condition is for Grice a GCI, it too needs to be re-analysed in RT as an
explicature.
10
 ‘Cancellable’ here means ‘cancellable without producing a contradiction of what is said.
11
 
In RT, the logical form of a sentence corresponds to the sentence’s encoded linguistic
semantics.
12
 Carston (2002: 256) entertains the idea that perhaps and ‘has no linguistic meaning at all’ (con-
ceptual or procedural) and that the truth values of co-ordinated propositions fall out from syntactic
co-ordination. I return to this point in Sect. 5.3.2.3.
5  The Meaning of if
125
Conversely, Grice’s PCIs are (consistently with Grice) treated in RT as implica-
tures. For example, B’s answer in (8a) (A: Are you hungry?; B: I’ve had breakfast)
communicates the PCI in (8d) – that B is not hungry. This PCI is in RT treated as an
implicature. This is because (8d) does not entail what is linguistically encoded, i.e.
that the speaker is not hungry does not entail that the speaker has had breakfast at
some point prior to the utterance.
RT’s reanalysis of Grice’s GCI in terms of an explicature is indicative of their
rejection of the criterion of cancellation as defining of the explicit-implicit
­
distinction. If Grice’s GCIs are explicatures then, since Grice’s GCIs are cancella-
ble, explicatures must be cancellable. Indeed, RT (e.g. Carston 2002: 138) allows
that explicatures can be cancelled.
In this context, Burton-Roberts (2005) emphasises Carston’s (2002: 123–124)
characterisation of explicatures in terms of ‘expressing… commitment’ and ‘overtly
endorsing’ what is explicitly communicated. Burton-Roberts argues that the sug-
gestion that explicatures can be cancelled is inconsistent with this characterisation
of explicature since the speaker cannot cancel what she is committed to without
contradicting herself.
To complicate things further, the definition of explicature in terms of logical
development of the encoded LF, combined with the exhaustivity of the explicature-­
implicature distinction, means that RT has to allow that some implicatures cannot
be cancelled. Consider the following example.
(33) a) The judge is my father.
b) The judge is a man.
(33b) cannot be regarded as explicated by an utterance of (33a) as it does not entail
(33a). On the contrary, (33a) entails (33b). In other words, if one adheres to the logi-
cal (entailment) account of development, (33b) is not a development of (33a). In
RT’s terms thus, there is no other alternative but to treat (33b) as a case of implica-
ture (e.g. Carston 2002: 140). A general problem with this analysis is that (33b) is
defined in mutually exclusive terms – it is both entailed by and implicated by (33a).
This analysis goes against Grice, who defined implicature in non-truth-conditional
terms. A particular problem with respect to the criterion of cancelation is that RT
has to allow that there are some implicatures which cannot be cancelled because
they are actually entailed by what is linguistically encoded.13
Consider also (34)
below.
(34) a) A: Have you invited any men to the function?
 
B: I’ve invited my father.
b) I’ve invited a man.
13
 As pointed out by Burton-Roberts (2005), Carston (2002: 140–141) argues that there is nothing
wrong in the treatment of (33b) as an implicature because in RT concepts are atomic á la Fodor
(1998). However, given the arguments presented in Chaps. 2, 3 and 4, this argument is not valid.
5.3 Why if Does Not Encode Material Implication
126
Burton-Roberts (2005) argues that (34b) ought to be treated as an explicature of
(34a-B) since (34b) constitutes part of the truth-conditional content of the expli-
cated proposition. Similarly, in Carston’s example, (33b) should be treated as an
explicature of (33a). Burton-Roberts’ point is that, if the truth-conditional content
of (33a) and (34a–B) is treated as implicated, then all the truth-conditional content
of the explicature would have to be regarded as implicated.14
Burton-Roberts (2005) also points to the fact that the definition of development
in terms of entailment is problematic for the analysis of negation. Compare (35) and
(36).
(35) a) I’ve had breakfast.
b) I’ve had breakfast today.
(36) a) I’ve not had breakfast.
b) I’ve not had breakfast today.
(35b) above is analysed as an explicature of (35a) because (35b) entails the less
specific (35a). With negatives, however, the relation of entailment holds in the oppo-
site direction. Thus, in (36) above, it is (a) that entails (b). This means that, given the
logical definition of development, (36b) cannot – parallel to (34b) (I’ve invited a
man) – be treated as an explicature of (36a). RT must analyse it as an implicature.
This contrast in RT’s analysis of positives and negatives is counter-intuitive – there
is no reason, other than RT’s logical definition of development, for why the relevant
temporal restriction should be explicated in (35) but implicated in (36).
Now, Recanati (1991) criticises RT’s treatment of some truth-conditions as
implicatures. He calls attention to Carston’s (1988) Independence Principle, which
states that if a communicated proposition entails or is entailed by the LF of the sen-
tence uttered, it must be considered as part of what is explicated. However, given
Carston’s (2002: 140–141) insistence that (33b) is an implicature, the Independence
Principle does not actually seem to play any role in defining RT’s distinction
between explicatures and implicatures.
In summary, RT correctly rejects Grice’s distinction between encoded semantics
and pragmatics as defining of the distinction between explicit and implicit commu-
nication. However, acknowledging the substantive role of pragmatics in the deriva-
tion of explicatures forces RT to reject (the principle of) cancellation as defining of
the explicit-implicit distinction.
As discussed, RT (Sperber and Wilson 1995; Carston 2002) defines explicature
as a development/enrichment of the logical form of an utterance. But there are sev-
14
 Burton-Roberts acknowledges that (34a–B) is not a strict answer to A’s question in (34a). He
argues that an answer is strict if and only if the communicated truth-conditional content is both
sufficient and necessary to answer the question. Even though (34a–B) communicates a strict
answer (because it is sufficient), it is not itself a strict answer (because it is not necessary). Burton-
Roberts (ibid.) argues that his notion of strictness of an answer captures the indirectness of B’s
response in (34a) without the problem associated with treating (34b) as merely implicated.
5  The Meaning of if
127
eral problems with this definition. If development is defined in terms of entailment
(such that X is a development of Y if and only if X entails Y), RT’s account gives rise
to many inconsistencies: (a) explicit content can be cancelled even though the
speaker endorses/commits herself to it; (b) there are cases which are logical devel-
opments but which are acknowledged in RT as implicatures; (c) negative and posi-
tive utterances do not receive a uniform treatment.
Carston (2002: 188–190) tentatively suggests that if the notion of development
did not pertain to logical but rather cognitive strength, (33b) – and thus (36b) –
could actually be treated as explicated. However, Burton-Roberts (2005: 398) points
out that exchanging logical strength (i.e. specificity) for cognitive strength (i.e.
specificity) does not solve the problem since the cognitive is, for RT, the locus of
logical (i.e. truth-theoretic) properties. Cognitive strength should thus parallel logi-
cal strength.
One solution to RT’s problems might be not to define development logically in
terms of entailment. However, if development is not defined in logical terms, there
is no clear definition of development. If there is no clear definition of development,
there is no definition of explicature since explicature is defined in terms of develop-
ment. If there is no definition of explicature, there is no definition of implicature.
This is because in RT implicature is defined negatively with respect to explicature.
In this section, I have introduced RT’s re-analysis of Grice’s semantics-­pragmatics
distinction and discussed problems with this re-analysis. In the next three sections,
I look at its implications for the study of conditionals.
5.3.2.3  
Relevance Theory’s Circle: The Nature of Linguistic Semantics
Revisited
In Chap. 3, I discussed RT’s distinction between real and linguistic semantics in
terms of truth-theoretic value or lack of it, respectively. In contrast to Grice, RT’s
(standard) claim is that the encoded (linguistic) semantics is non-truth-theoretic –
for RT, truth conditionality lies only in thought. Carston (e.g. Carston 2002: 99–100)
argues that the problem of ‘pragmatic intrusion’ does not arise once the explicit-­
implicit distinction is re-analysed in Relevance Theory’s terms. Carston’s (ibid.)
point is that the problem of ‘pragmatic intrusion’ arises only if what-is-said is iden-
tified with linguistic semantics. As discussed in the previous section, RT identifies
what-is-said with explicitly communicated content (i.e. explicature), but the explic-
itly communicated content is not identified with the encoded linguistic semantics
(even though it is dependent on it). In (standard) RT, pragmatics is involved in the
derivation of what is explicated, but the encoded linguistic semantics is ‘autono-
mous with respect to pragmatics’ (Carston 2002: 99). Insofar as pragmatics is
involved in the derivation of semantic content, it is in RT involved in the derivation
of real, i.e. truth-conditional, semantic content of communicated thought. In what
follows, I argue that Carston’s (ibid.) claim that encoded semantics is autonomous
with respect to pragmatics is invalid. Crucially, if this claim cannot be maintained,
the very rationale for positing linguistic semantics is lost.
5.3 Why if Does Not Encode Material Implication
128
As discussed in Chap. 3, RT’s account of the acquisition of linguistic semantics
is post hoc in that it presupposes prior understanding of utterances. If, as RT (e.g.
Carston 2002: 364–365, also Carston 2013) argues, linguistic semantics is abstracted
from experiences of various uses of a given word, then some utterances must be
understood prior to the acquisition of linguistic semantics. It is clear that if some
utterances are understood prior to the acquisition of linguistic semantics, they must
be understood through and solely through contextual inference. In Chap. 3, I argued
that acknowledging that the understanding of utterances does not require the media-
tion of linguistic semantics equals acknowledging that linguistic semantics is
unnecessary. However, this acknowledgement also gives rise to another problem for
RT – the problem of pragmatic intrusion into encoded (i.e. linguistic) semantics. In
principle, if linguistic semantics is abstracted from pragmatically inferred interpre-
tations, linguistic semantics cannot be autonomous with respect to pragmatics.
Thus, even RT cannot deny that it is pragmatic inference that gets an interpreter to
the purported linguistic semantics.
Also relevant here is RT’s definition of explicature in terms of logical develop-
ment. For explicature to entail the LF (i.e. the linguistic semantics of a sentence) of
which it is a development, the LF must be a propositional entity, i.e. it must be an
entity with truth-theoretic properties. Since ‘implicature’ is in RT defined solely in
contrast to ‘explicature’ (as discussed in Sect. 5.3.2.2), RT’s explicit-implicit dis-
tinction must rest on the assumption that linguistic semantics has truth-theoretic
properties.
There is an interesting paradox involved here. Carston (2002: 99–100) argues
that Grice’s circle (sect. 5.3.2.1) can be avoided if Grice’s explicit-implicit distinc-
tion is re-defined along RT’s lines. Crucially, the success of RT’s re-definition of the
explicit-implicit distinction in solving Grice’s circle rests on the argument that lin-
guistic semantics, unlike real semantics, does not have truth-theoretic properties
(see also Carston 2012, 2013). However, RT’s definition of the explicit – and hence
of the explicit-implicit distinction – rests on the argument that linguistic semantics
does have truth-theoretic properties. Thus, standard RT’s re-definition of Grice’s
explicit-implicit distinction achieves the opposite of what it sought to achieve in the
first place. I shall refer to this problem of RT’s as ‘Relevance Theory’s circle’.
As discussed, Relevance Theory’s circle is evident when we consider RT’s theo-
retical claims regarding the acquisition of linguistic semantics, the nature of linguis-
tic semantics and their re-definition of the explicit-implicit distinction. It is also
evident when we consider more closely Noh’s (2000) claim that if linguistically
semantically encodes MI.
Before I discuss Noh’s proposal in more detail, an important comment is in order.
As argued earlier, Relevance Theory’s circle points to the conclusion that there is no
principled distinction in RT between linguistic semantics and real semantics – espe-
cially in the light of my argument (Chap. 3) against the necessity of positing the
process of decoding. In this connection, consider the following quote from Carston
(2002: 257):
5  The Meaning of if
129
The truth relation holds between thoughts and states of affairs, so between propositions
expressed by utterances (semantic/pragmatic hybrids) and states of affairs. Then, it is sys-
tem of thought, rather than linguistic systems, for which a truth calculus, that is, a logic,
should be devised.
I agree with what Carston is suggesting here – thought is the only locus of truth
theoretic properties. However, the problem of Relevance Theory’s circle, which I
identified for various aspects of Relevance Theory, shows that RT, including
Carston, has not fully embraced the radical consequences of this claim: that there is
no linguistic semantics or the process of deterministic decoding, for that matter; that
a wholly pragmatic inference gets an interpreter to a (holistic) thought, which is the
only locus of semantics.
Indeed, consider Carston’s (2002: 256) suggestion (mentioned in footnote 12)
that the word and encodes no linguistic meaning (conceptual or procedural) and that
the truth values of co-ordinated propositions follow from syntactic co-ordination.
What Carston does here is distinguish between the ‘semantics of and’, which is
empty, and ‘the logic of and’, which is a syntactic matter. Clearly, if the logic of and
is a syntactic matter, then the logic of and (i.e. conjunction) is still a linguistic,
though not semantic, property. However, this claim of Carston’s is inconsistent with
what she is suggesting in the quote above – that is, that truth is not a property of
linguistic representation but of thought. It is not clear whether for Carston truth-­
theoretic properties apply in language or in thought. This inconsistency clearly
reflects RT’s instability about the nature of semantics. Therefore, as much as I agree
with what Carston is saying in the quote above, I argue that this claim can only be
maintained once its radical consequences are acknowledged.
5.3.2.4  
Relevance Theory’s Circle: Pragmatic Intrusion into Encoded
Semantics of ‘if’
In this section, I show that the problem of pragmatic intrusion into encoded seman-
tics arises for Relevance Theoretic accounts of conditionals (Smith and Smith 1988;
Noh 2000). My arguments will strengthen Carston’s claim made in the quote above
and call for the resolution of the Relevance Theory’s circle by means of acknowl-
edging the radical pragmatic consequences of this claim.
Consider again the biconditional interpretation of if, which, it has been argued
(e.g. Smith and Smith 1988), is easily amenable to a linguistic semantic analysis in
terms of MI. Earlier, I discussed examples (14) and (15), repeated below.
(14) If you pass the exam, I’ll take you to a restaurant.
(15) If you do something illegal, we’ll lock you up.
According to MI, (14) and (15) should be false only if the antecedent is T and the
consequent F, and true otherwise. As discussed in Sect. 5.2.2.4, it might be argued
that in uttering (14) and (15) the speakers are not actually making any undertaking
as to what they will do if the antecedent is false, only what they will do if the
5.3 Why if Does Not Encode Material Implication
130
antecedent is T – i.e. that MI correctly predicts that the speakers of (14) and (15)
have spoken falsely only in a situation where the antecedent is T and the consequent
F. Thus, MI allows that the hearer of (14) may be taken to a restaurant even if he
fails the exam, and that the hearer of (15) may be locked up even if he refrains from
doing something illegal again. I will argue that there is in fact a problem with this
analysis.
(14) and (15) exemplify conditional inducements, i.e. statements made to influ-
ence hearers’ behaviour by telling them about the consequences of their behaviour
(Searle 1971). (14) is used to influence the hearer’s behaviour by promising that q
will be T if p is T, and (15) is used to influence the hearer’s behaviour by threatening
that q will be T if p is T. As observed by Searle (1971), a promise is a pledge to do
something for someone, not to someone, but a threat is a pledge to do something to
someone, not for someone. So promises and threats differ; according to Beller
(2002; Beller et al. 2005), what Searle captures by the contrast between to and for
is a motivational contrast which, in turn, gives rise to a difference in deontic
commitment.
According to Beller, with promises the hearer is motivated to make p T, whereas
with threats the hearer is motivated to make p F. With promises, p is a desired behav-
iour for which there is a reward (q). With threats, by contrast, p is an undesired
behaviour for which there is a punishment (q).
Beller argues that this motivational difference gives rise to the following differ-
ence in deontic commitment. With promises, a cooperative hearer is one who makes
p T, in which case a cooperative speaker is obliged to make q T. But if p is F (i.e. if
the hearer doesn’t co-operate), there is no obligation on the promisor to reward the
hearer with q, she is only permitted to do so – i.e. the speaker is permitted to make
q T even if p is F. Threats are different. With threats, a cooperative hearer is one who
makes p F, in which case a co-operative speaker is obliged to make q F. Indeed, with
threats, if p is F, the speaker is not permitted to make q T. This difference, which is
attributed to ‘implicit social rules’, suggests that the strong interpretation is more
strongly associated with threats than it is with promises. In Beller’s words, it sug-
gests that the deontic interpretation of conditional threats (if p, then q) is equivalent
to the interpretation of their ‘complementary promise’ (if not p, then not q).
Now, if there really is such a difference in speaker commitment in the case of
conditional inducements, not keeping a promise (i.e. what I’ll be calling ‘promising
falsely’) should correspond to ‘p and not-q’ (consistent with MI), whereas not keep-
ing a threat (i.e. what I’ll be calling ‘falsely threatening’) should correspond to ‘not-­
p and q’ (not consistent with MI). This corresponds to the intuition that in (14), the
promise made by the speaker clearly is broken if the hearer passes the exam (p is T)
and the speaker does not take him to a restaurant (q is F). However, if the hearer is
taken to the restaurant by the speaker (q is T) even if the hearer has failed the exam
(p is F), one can argue that the speaker is over-indulgent, but not that she has not
kept the promise to ‘q if p’. In (15), however, there is a strong intuition that the
speaker has violated the terms of the threat if the hearer does not do anything illegal
(p is F) and yet the speaker locks the hearer up (q is T). Indeed, Beller (2002) and
Beller et al. (2005) report on experimental studies which support this hypothesis for
5  The Meaning of if
131
German conditionals and Sztencel and Clarke (in prep) report on a replication of
Beller’s studies on English conditionals.15
In sum, the difference between the promise in (14) and the threat in (15) is this.
With the promise the speaker is not taken to have spoken falsely in a situation where
p is F and q is T. This is consistent with an MI semantics, but inconsistent with
CP. With the threat, by contrast, the speaker is taken to have spoken falsely in a situ-
ation where p is F and q is T. This is inconsistent with an MI semantics, but ­consistent
with CP. Crucially, this means that, at least in some cases,16
MI predicts when a
conditional promise is violated (F) but not when a conditional threat is violated (F).
The significance of this difference between (14) and (15) is the problem it poses
for the assumption that the word if semantically encodes MI. If we sought to main-
tain MI as the encoded semantics of if, we would have to acknowledge an inelegant
asymmetry; the falsity of a conditional is sometimes semantically encoded and thus
deterministically decoded in utterance interpretation, and sometimes it is pragmati-
cally inferred. Indeed, this asymmetry is inconsistent with standard, dual-­processing
accounts of the semantics and pragmatics of conditionals. This is because the dis-
tinction between threats and promises is a matter of a holistic and thus pragmatic
inference. To see this, consider (37):
(37) If you do it again, I’ll take you to the funfair.
Example (37) can be interpreted as a promise or a threat depending on whether the
hearer assumes that the speaker knows whether the hearer finds funfairs a pleasure
or not. Thus, it needs to be established whether the intended interpretation is a threat
or a promise in order to establish whether the falsity of the conditional is modelled
by MI – and thus encoded – or not. The problem for truth-functional approaches is
that such individual propositional attitudes as desires and dreads can only be held at
an individualistic and thus holistic level – whether something is a desire or dread, a
threat or a promise is not a matter of linguistically encoded semantic content.
The point I am making here is that if we agree that (a) MI predicts when a prom-
ise is F, but not when a threat is F and that (b) the distinction between promises and
threats is a pragmatic distinction, then (c) MI models and thus applies at the level of
pragmatically (i.e. holistically) inferable thought, and not at any level of linguistic
semantics (LF).
In fact, this problem for dual-processing accounts arises not only for conditional
inducements, but also for conditional injunctions. Consider (20) and (21), repeated
below for convenience.
(20) If there is no other choice, amputate his leg.
(21) If you press the red button, the conveyor belt will stop.
15
 I discuss the significance of these studies in more detail in Sect. 5.3.3.
16
 I discuss some exceptions shortly.
5.3 Why if Does Not Encode Material Implication
132
On the assumption that the speaker of (21) has communicated a belief which she
takes to be true (itself a pragmatic inference which involves the Gricean maxim of
Quality and the assumption that the conveyor belt is in working order), the hearer is
licensed to think that the situation in which p is T and q is F is ruled out. Relatedly,
if a situation like that did happen, the hearer would reason that the speaker had lied
(had spoken falsely) or held a false conditional belief. This is consistent with MI. In
contrast, the hearer of (20), in light of his so-called encyclopaedic knowledge about
the grounds for and consequences of leg-amputation, will be licensed to establish
the truth value relations between p and q in a way allowed by material equivalence:
the hearer will be taken not to have complied with the injunction – i.e. will be taken
to have made (20) false – if he makes q T (the hearer amputates the patient’s leg) in
a situation where p is F (where there is some other choice of treatment). As with
threats and promises, here the problem for the assumption that the word if semanti-
cally encodes MI is that the determination of whether MI models the falsity of a
conditional or not depends on inferences which go through in a holistic belief
system.
Consider also the universal conditionals (17) and (18).
(17) Water heated at an altitude below 600 m begins to boil if it reaches 100 °C.
(18) If it’s a square, it has four sides.
MI guarantees that the conditional in (17) is F when p is T (water reaches 100 °C)
and q is F (water doesn’t begin to boil). This is a correct prediction. But MI also
guarantees that (17) should be T if p is F (water doesn’t reach 100 °C) and q T
(water begins to boil). This is an incorrect prediction for anyone who knows that it
is impossible for water heated at an altitude below 600 m to start boiling before it
reaches 100 °C. In contrast, the conditional in (18) is F when p is T (it is a square)
and q F (it doesn’t have four sides), and T otherwise. The truth value of (18), but not
of (17), can be predicted by MI. Again, the difference between (18) and (17) and
thus the determination of whether MI predicts the falsity of a conditional or not is
established at the holistic level of belief – it depends on a cogniser’s (so-called ency-
clopaedic) knowledge that there is no other boiling point for water heated at an
altitude below 600 m than 100 °C and that, apart from squares, there are other geo-
metric figures with four sides.
It may be objected that the asymmetry I have been discussing here is actually
compatible with the assumption that what we are dealing with is a pragmatic pro-
cess of CP: the strengthening of encoded MI to equivalence. But this argument, I
argue, is incorrect. Just as it is pragmatically established that MI does not model the
falsity of (15), (20), (17) or of the threat interpretation of (37), so it is pragmatically
established that MI models the falsity of (14), (21), (18) and of the promise interpre-
tation of (37). This is because the (supposedly encoded) MI-driven weak interpreta-
tion is as much a matter of pragmatic inference as the equivalence-driven strong
interpretation.
Now, the assumption that MI constitutes the encoded semantics of if gives rise to
unsolvable paradoxes. Consider again (27).
5  The Meaning of if
133
(27) If the patient is still alive in the morning, change the dressing.
As discussed in Sect. 5.3.1, Edgington’s (2008) point with respect to this example
was that since (p⊃q) is logically equivalent to (~p v q), the nurse may argue to have
obeyed the command in (27) by making sure that the patient is not alive in the morn-
ing (~p is T) and not changing the dressing (q is F).
The problem is that the assumption of an MI semantics predicts that the nurse’s
way of obeying the command is logically correct, but it is nevertheless an
­
unreasonable way of obeying that command. But notice that the clash between what
is supposed to be logically correct and what is reasonable only arises on the assump-
tion that the word if encodes MI. Take away this assumption, and the clash/para-
dox – and the problem – disappears.
As noted, Edgington suggests that pragmatic explanations of examples like (27)
are ‘stretching pragmatics rather far’. The argument I have put forward in this sec-
tion – that if MI applies, it never does so prior to pragmatic inference – substantiates
Edgington’s claim. If, as shown in this section, pragmatic inference determines
whether MI applies or not, MI cannot be the encoded semantic content of if. This is
because encoded semantic content is supposed to be autonomous with respect to
pragmatic inference.
In the next section, I concentrate on Noh’s (1996, 2000) claim that it is possible
to retain MI as the encoded semantics of if even on metarepresentational uses. I
argue that Noh’s approach also stretches pragmatics too far to be consistent with her
claim that if semantically encodes MI.
5.3.2.5  
Problems with Noh’s (2000) Metarepresentational Account
As discussed in Sect. 5.2.2.5, Noh (2000) argues that a truth-functional analysis of
examples like (23) (A: Two and eleven makes thirty; B: If two and eleven makes
thirty, you need more work on maths) is available at the higher-explicature level.
Noh argues that a truth-functional relation holds between the meta-level explicature
‘you say/believe that two and eleven makes thirty’ and ‘you need more work on
maths’. Consider also (38).
(38) If you’re thirsty, there’s beer in the fridge.
Example (38) defies an analysis in terms of MI at the descriptive level in that the
truth of q (‘there’s beer in the fridge’) is independent of the truth value of p (‘you’re
thirsty’); the speaker of (38) is asserting that q is T. This means that q is not a con-
sequent and p not an antecedent.
Noh (2000: 201) argues that when approached from a metarepresentational per-
spective, (38), and examples similar to it, do not defy an analysis in terms of
MI. However, even though Noh criticises a descriptive level analysis of (38), she
5.3 Why if Does Not Encode Material Implication
134
does not actually offer a metarepresentational analysis of it. Instead, she gives an
analysis of (39).17
(39) [Son to mother who is going out]
Mum, don’t worry. If I’m hungry, there’s a sandwich in the fridge.
Noh (2000: 201) argues that the consequent in (39) is an interpretive use – it meta-
represents ‘a desired thought’, i.e. a thought which would become relevant to the
speaker in a situation where the antecedent is T. Thus, for Noh, MI models the rela-
tion between ‘I am hungry’ communicated by the antecedent and ‘it will be relevant
for me to remember that there’s a sandwich in the fridge’ communicated by the
consequent. But Noh’s analysis is problematic for three reasons:
–
– it suggests (contrary to Noh’s own arguments) that MI applies at the pragmatic
rather than semantic level
–
– it undermines the theoretical significance of the notion of metarepresentation
–
– it does not offer an adequate explanation
Fundamentally, the meta-level where the application of appropriate (i.e. consistent
with MI) truth values is supposed to take place for metarepresentational uses is a
pragmatic, not semantic, level. If MI applies here, then it does not apply at the level
of decoded linguistic semantics, but at the level of pragmatically inferred thought.
This gives rise to the question of whether a metarepresentational analysis actually
shows, as Noh (2000: 205) argues, that ‘natural-language if is semantically equiva-
lent to material implication’ [my italics]. Consider also the following quote from
Noh.
[…] metarepresentational antecedents can express propositions different from those
expressed by descriptively used (i.e. ordinary) antecedents. This is possible as long as prag-
matic enrichment processes can flesh out the linguistically encoded material in such a way
as to distinguish between descriptive and metarepresentational use. As a result, the truth
table for material implication applies to these ‘non-basic’ conditionals just as it does to
more basic ones, and a standard argument against the truth table account dissolves. (Noh
2000: 190–191, my italics)
In this quote, Noh makes it clear that descriptive and metarepresentational uses are
pragmatically distinguished. But if that is the case, then the application of appropri-
ate truth values – not only to meta-representational but also to descriptive uses –
must occur after it has been pragmatically determined whether the use in question
is descriptive or meta-representational. Significantly, this suggests that, contrary to
what Noh argues, Noh’s arguments are not about the encoded semantics of if, but
about its pragmatics. Noh, however, does not acknowledge this point.18
17
 I shortly return to a metarepresentational re-analysis of (38).
18
 The descriptive-metalinguistic distinction was originally put forward by Horn (1989) as a prag-
matic distinction. Horn argues that when if is used descriptively, it equals MI, but when it is used
metalinguistically, it does not. Interestingly, Noh (1996: 26) argues that Horn (1989) posits a prag-
matic ambiguity which ‘seem[s] to imply a semantic ambiguity’.
5  The Meaning of if
135
As for the second problem, let me illustrate it with a metarepresentational re-­
analysis of (38) (If you’re thirsty, there’s beer in the fridge). This example is signifi-
cant because Noh (2000: 191) argues that a metarepresentational re-analysis of
examples like (38) is crucial to maintaining the argument that MI is the encoded
semantics of if. However, even if we assume, along with Noh, that a metarepresen-
tational analysis can be applied to (39), its application to (38) is problematic.
Let us imagine a context in which (38) is uttered by Paul to his brother John who
has just entered the house after laying bricks in direct sun for the past eight hours,
and that John has not verbally or in any other way communicated to Paul that he is
thirsty. In such a context, there is a choice of two metarepresentational analyses: (i)
the ­
consequent is an interpretive use or (ii) the consequent is a metalinguistic use.
Both options are problematic.
On the first option (i), the consequent in (38), like the consequent in (39), is sup-
posed to metarepresent ‘a desired thought’ which will become relevant to John if the
antecedent is T. The problem with an interpretive analysis of this consequent is that
if ‘there’s beer in the fridge’ is a metarepresentation of a thought, it is a metarepre-
sentation of the speaker’s own thought (that there’s beer in the fridge). In other
words, the consequent is used to communicate that it will be relevant for the hearer
to entertain the thought that the speaker himself entertains as T with respect to the
world. In fact, notice that the assumption of relevance of q to p depends on the
speaker’s entertaining this particular thought as T with respect to the world. The
problem is that if the consequent in (38) is metarepresentational of the speaker’s
own thought – i.e. if one can metarepresent one’s own thoughts – then every single
utterance, including the antecedent in (38), is metarepresentational and the notion of
metarepersentation loses its import.19
On the second option (ii), the consequent in (38) would be a metalinguistic use;
it would communicate something like ‘I am saying that …’.20
But the problem here
is that if the consequent in (38) could be analysed as a metalinguistic use, then every
utterance that every single speaker makes could be so analysed and, again, the
notion of metalinguistic use would lose its theoretical significance.21
The third problem with Noh’s analysis concerns the notion of metarepresenta-
tional faithfulness. As discussed earlier, Noh’s metarepresentational re-analysis of
examples which defy an MI analysis at the descriptive level relies on the relevance
of the notion of metarepresentational faithfulness (of metarepresentation to the
metarepresented object). As discussed in Sect. 5.2.2.5, Noh (2000: 187) argues that
‘what is important in metarepresentation is faithfulness to the original, rather than
truthfulness’. Consider (26) again.
19
 The same problem arises for the consequent in (39).
20
 In fact, Noh (2000: 207) offers a metalinguistic analysis of the speaker’s own utterance for con-
ditionals with patently false consequents. I criticise this proposal of Noh’s later in this section.
21
 I will discuss a simpler and less problematic solution to the interpretation of examples like (38)
in Chap. 6.
5.3 Why if Does Not Encode Material Implication
136
(26) [A is talking to B about her meeting with her supervisor]
A: Then what did she say?
B: The argument is invalid.
Noh argues that B’s utterance in (26) is T if and only if it is a faithful metarepresen-
tation of B’s supervisor’s utterance. Noh (2000: 189) writes: ‘what is important is
not whether the argument is valid or not, but whether the supervisor said something
resembling that or not’. Notice that if it is irrelevant whether the argument is valid
or not, it is irrelevant whether what B’s supervisor communicated was T or F. For
Noh, (26B) is T as long as it is faithful to what the supervisor said, but regardless of
whether the supervisor held a T or F belief about the argument.
For Noh (e.g. Noh 2000: 202), the truth value of what is being metarepresented
is irrelevant also in the case of conditionals. Consider (23), repeated below.
(23) A: Two and eleven makes thirty.
B: If two and eleven makes thirty, you need more work on maths.
As noted earlier, Noh (2000: 187–189) maintains that even though a descriptive
level MI analysis of (23B) yields wrong results, (23B) is modelled by MI at the
meta-level. At the meta-level the antecedent (‘you say/believe that two and eleven
makes thirty’) comes out as T on the assumption that it faithfully metarepresents A’s
utterance. Given that the antecedent is T, the consequent has got to be T for the
whole conditional to be T.  The metarepresentational analysis of the antecedent,
thus, guarantees the assignment of T and only T to the consequent. Thus, on Noh’s
analysis the consequent in (23B) is T because the antecedent is a faithful metarep-
resentation of A’s utterance and regardless of the fact that the antecedent is F at the
descriptive level. It is precisely the importance of faithfulness rather than truthful-
ness which allows Noh to maintain MI as the encoded semantics of all
conditionals.
However, Noh’s metarepresentational account misses a very important point
about (23B) – that the faithfulness of the metarepresentational antecedent simply is
not the reason why B in (23) communicates that A needs more work on maths (that
the consequent is T). In fact, contrary to what follows from Noh’s proposal, crucial
to the truth of the consequent is not the fact that B has truly metarepresented A’s
belief, but the fact that A falsely believes that a patent falsity is true. It is thus the
falsity of A’s belief which allows B to communicate that the consequent in (23) is T.
The following modification of (23) emphasises my point. If Noh were right in
claiming that the ‘truthfulness’ of what is being metarepresented is irrelevant in
metarepresentational uses, B would be able to communicate ‘you need more work
on maths’ by faithfully metarepresenting a true mathematical belief of A – e.g. a
belief that ‘two plus two makes four’. However, because A’s belief that ‘two plus two
makes four’ is T, B cannot communicate (or conclude) that A needs more work on
maths even if B has faithfully metarepresented this belief of A’s.
5  The Meaning of if
137
Now, MI does not predict the fact that the truth of the consequent in (23B) fol-
lows from the falsity of A’s belief. Nevertheless, the use of if in (23B) does com-
municate that there is some (consequential) relation between p and q. This needs to
be explained. Crucial to the explanation is, I argue, the falsity of A’s mathematical
belief.A believes that what B knows is a patent mathematical falsity is true. Learning
about this false belief of A, B realises that A does not have necessary mathematical
knowledge to be aware that this belief is actually false.As a solution to this problem,
B suggests that A needs more work on maths. There clearly is a relation of relevance
between p and q in (23B), but that relation is not modelled by MI.22
Also important and relevant here is Noh’s analysis of (40).
(40) Pope to a telephone operator in a small Swiss village: I’m the Pope.
Operator: If you’re the Pope, I’m the Empress of China.
Noh (2000: 207) argues that the antecedent in the operator’s utterance in (40) is used
to metarepresent the hearer’s (the Pope’s) utterance and the consequent is used to
metarepresent ‘an utterance that the speaker wants to make in the case where the
proposition expressed by the antecedent is uttered/entertained’.23
According to Noh
(ibid.), the speaker ‘is asserting that if the hearer is saying that he is the Pope, she
will say that she is the Empress of China’. At the meta-level, T will be assigned to
‘you say you’re the Pope’ and to ‘I say I’m the Empress of China’.
Whereas Noh’s meta-level analysis is indeed consistent with MI, it misses the
crucial point that the operator in (40) is communicating her disbelief that the hearer
is the Pope by inviting an inference from the patent falsity of the consequent to the
falsity of the antecedent (Modus Tollens). This inference is licensed by MI, but it is
licensed at the descriptive, not meta-representational level. Noh (ibid.) does men-
tion that both utterances involved in the meta-level analysis are ‘presented as bla-
tantly false’ and that they ‘function as abstract echoes’ of ‘the property of being
patently false’. However, the problem is that it is not clear how the meta-level can
‘echo’ the falsity involved at the descriptive level if, as argued by Noh (2000: 202),
in metarepresentational uses ‘the proposition literally expressed by the consequent
is given guarantee not of truthfulness, but of faithfulness’.
I have been arguing that Noh’s metarepresentational analysis of (40) is inade-
quate. This example can be more simply explained as inviting MT (an inference
licensed by MI) in virtue of the patent falsity of the consequent. However, even
though the interpretation of (40) is modelled by MI, MI applies at the level of holis-
tic thought. The operator in (40) communicates her disbelief that the hearer is the
Pope by inviting him to perform MT. The operator can assume that the hearer (i.e.
the Pope) will be able to perform MT for the following reason: given that the hearer
(i.e. the Pope) knows that at the other end of the line is an operator in Switzerland,
the operator assumes that the hearer (i.e. the Pope) will be able to pragmatically
22
 I return to this example in Chap. 6.
23
 See my earlier point that if consequents like the one in (40) can be analysed in metalinguistic
terms, then all utterances can be so analysed.
5.3 Why if Does Not Encode Material Implication
138
infer the blatant falsity of the consequent (‘I’m the Empress of China’). Crucially,
notice that the hearer (i.e. the Pope) will be able to infer from the falsity of ‘I’m the
Empress of China’ to the communicated falsity of ‘you’re the Pope’ even though the
hearer (i.e. the Pope) knows that ‘you’re the Pope’ is in fact true. The Pope will be
able to infer that MI models the relation between ‘I’m the Empress of China’ and
‘you’re the Pope’ in the operator’s mind even though it does not model the relation
between these two propositions/thoughts in his mind. This shows that if MI models
the relation between ‘I’m the Empress of China’ and ‘you’re the Pope’, it does so
not as a matter of logical necessity, but as a matter of an individual’s holistic belief
system.
Now, Noh’s metarepresentational analysis seems to make correct predictions in
some cases. For example, it seems plausible to agree with Noh that MI predicts the
injunction interpretation of (22) (‘If that’s John, I’m not here’), which involves a
metarepresentational consequent. However, for the reasons discussed in Sects.
5.3.2.3, 5.3.2.4 and in this section, one cannot extrapolate from the existence of
such examples to the claim that MI is the encoded semantics of if.
The aim of this chapter was to answer the question of whether if encodes MI. The
answer is that it does not, because even where MI applies, it does so in pragmati-
cally (i.e. holistically) inferred thought. It is thus not language, but thought which is
the locus of MI.
5.3.3  
More on Threats, Promises and the ~(P & ~Q)
Constraint
In Sect. 5.3.2.4, I discussed the implications of Beller’s deontic commitments
hypothesis for the theory of conditionals (Beller 2002; Beller et al. 2005; Sztencel
and Clarke in prep). In short, the problem is that breaking the terms of a conditional
promise (promising falsely) tends to be associated with (p & ~q) whereas breaking
the terms of a conditional threat (falsely threatening) tends to be associated with (~p
& q). I argued that the existence of utterances that can be interpreted as either prom-
ises or threats (depending on the holistic assumptions of the interpreter) clearly
illustrates that MI models and thus applies at the level of pragmatically (i.e. holisti-
cally) inferable thought, and not at any level of linguistic semantics. A comparable
effect is reported in Thompson (1994), who found that if the truth of p is perceived
as sufficient for the truth of q (as in ‘If a car runs out of gas, then it stalls’), then (p
& ~q) is chosen as a violation of a conditional rule more often than (~p & q). If,
however, the truth of p is perceived as necessary for the truth of q (as in ‘If the TV is
plugged in, then it works’), then (~p & q) is more often chosen as a violation of a
conditional rule than (p & ~q) is. These studies seem to suggest that ~(p & ~q) is
less associated with biconditional interpretations.
I mentioned earlier that the pro-MI versus anti-MI debate is still lively in psy-
chology. On the one hand, Johnson-Laird and Byrne (2002) and Johnson-Laird
5  The Meaning of if
139
et al. (2009), argue for an MI-based analysis of the ‘core meaning’ of a conditional
as excluding the possibility of (p & ~q). On the other, they state that their mental
models theory ‘does not provide a truth-functional account of their [conditionals’]
meaning’ (2009: 75). Evans et  al. (2007: 1772) believe that, contrary to what
Johnson-Laird et al. say, their mental models theory is indeed ‘at least partially
committed to a material conditional’. So do Oaksford and Chater (2003). Now,
regardless of whether assuming that ~(p & ~q) commits one to an MI semantics
(which seems to be the case for Johnson-Laird & Byrne) or whether it doesn’t
(which is the case for e.g. Stalnaker and van der Auwera), the ~(p & ~q) constraint
seems to be an important constraint on conditionals. In this chapter, I investigate this
constraint in some detail in relation to conditional promises and threats.
One thing I didn’t discuss in the previous sections is that Beller’s deontic com-
mitment hypothesis doesn’t make any predictions as to whether the speaker of a
conditional threat is permitted to make q false in a situation in which the hearer
made p true. Intuitively, it seems obvious to reject a suggestion that anyone who
utters “if p, q” should be judged as permitted to make q false in a situation in which
the hearer makes p true. As Lycan (2001: 24) puts it, ‘it is natural to be squeamish
about a theory of conditionals that allows a conditional to be true even though its
antecedent is true and its consequent is false.’ But empirical data suggests that such
intuitions should be revisited: a significant majority of participants in Beller (2002),
Beller et al.’s (2005) and Sztencel and Clarke (in prep) studies judge the speaker of
a conditional threat as permitted to make q false in a situation in which the hearer
made p true (see also Searle and Vanderveken 1985; Verbrugge et al. 2004, 2005).
Consider the following examples:
(41) If you don’t lend me your bike, I will not help you with the homework.
(42) If you lend me your bike, I’ll help you with the homework.
(41) is a threat. Permission for the conditional threatener in (41) to make q false
(speaker helps with the homework) in a situation in which the hearer made p true
(didn’t lend the bike) – in short, permission to (p & ∼q) – is a permission for the
speaker to be the better person, where X is the better person if X doesY a good turn
even though Y hasn’t done X a good turn. A comparable permission for the condi-
tional promisor in (42) to be the better person would amount to permission to (∼p
& q). So, permission to (p & ∼q) for threats and permission to (∼p & q) for prom-
ises are alike in that they amount to permission for the speaker to be the better per-
son. But they differ in that permission for a conditional promisor to be the better
person is consistent with ~(p & ~q), whereas permission for a conditional threatener
isn’t, at least on the face of it.
Now, permission for a conditional threatener to make q false in a situation in
which the hearer made p true can be analysed in two ways.
Option 1: Just like (∼p & q) doesn’t count as breaking the terms of (falsifying) a con-
ditional promise, so (p & ∼q) does not count as breaking the terms of (falsifying)
a conditional threat. We just need to assume that (p & ~q) is allowed for conditional
threats. This option is, of course, inconsistent with the ~(p & ~q) constraint.
5.3 Why if Does Not Encode Material Implication
140
Option 2: (p & ∼q) counts as breaking the terms of (falsifying) a conditional threat.
However, we are permitted to break some threats in this way – i.e. we are permit-
ted to go back on, or “retrospectively falsify” some of our threats in this way –
particularly when doing so counts as noble behaviour. This option is consistent
with the ~(p & ~q) constraint.
In principle, both options are available in the interpretation of conditional induce-
ments, but they are underlain by different assumptions about how socio-cognitive
principles guide our interpretation of conditional inducements. This is what I
attempt to do in the following sections. I will argue that the first option offers a
socio-cognitively uniform account of conditional inducements, but that both options
are actually adequate to explain the use of conditional promises and threats. Which
option applies depends on the holistic assumptions of the interlocutors.
5.3.3.1  
Exploring Options 1 and 2: The Inverse Effect Hypothesis
Let us remind ourselves what option 1 amounts to. On this analysis, we assume that
(p & ~q) is allowed for conditional threats (i.e. it does not count as breaking the
terms of a conditional threat), just like (∼p & q) is allowed for conditional promises
(i.e. doesn’t count as breaking the terms of a conditional promise). This option is
inconsistent with the ~(p & ~q) constraint.24
Partially based on the results reported in Beller (2002), Beller et al. (2005) and
Sztencel and Clarke (in prep), I propose the Inverse Effect Hypothesis, the predic-
tions of which are fleshed out in Table 5.1.25
24
 The following qualification will eventually need to be made here: (p & ~q) is allowed for some
conditional threats, just like (~p & q) is allowed for some conditional promises. This point will be
elaborated on later in this section.
25
 The hypothesis is partially based on the cited studies as it is not fully consistent with the findings
of Beller et al. (2005), where no significant difference was found between participants who thought
that the speaker is obliged to be the better person and those who thought that the speaker is not
obliged to be the better person in one of the scenarios. However, this difference in the findings does
not undermine the Inverse Effect Hypothesis, which focuses on permission, rather than obligation,
Table 5.1  Predictions of the Inverse Effect Hypothesis
Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 Column 4
PROMISE THREAT PROMISE THREAT
H made: p p ~p ~p
S is:
To make:
Obliged Not obliged Not obliged Obliged
Permitted Permitted Permitted Permitted
q q ~q ~q
S is:
To make:
Not permitted Permitted Permitted Not permitted
Not obliged Not obliged Not obliged Not obliged
~q ~q q q
H hearer, S speaker
5  The Meaning of if
141
The Inverse Effect Hypothesis makes two general predictions. First, that condi-
tional promisors and threateners are permitted to make the truth value of q the same
as the truth value of p and they are not obliged to make the truth value of q different
from the truth value of p. Second, and more deserving of the name, it predicts that
the conditional promisor’s obligation/lack of obligation to make the truth value of q
the same as the truth value of p and permission/lack of permission to make the truth
value of q different from the truth value of p is the inverse of the conditional threat-
ener’s respective deontic commitments. Let me explain the Inverse Effect Hypothesis
with examples (41) and (42), repeated below for convenience.
(41) If you don’t lend me your bike, I will not help you with the homework.
(42) If you lend me your bike, I’ll help you with the homework.
Let us start with the conditional promisor’s OBLIGATION to make the truth value
of q the same as the truth value of p. For promises, this obligation only arises in a
situation in which the hearer made p true (Column 1). If the hearer of a conditional
promise made p false, the conditional promisor is not obliged to make the truth
value of q the same (Column 3). The inverse is the case with threats. For threats, the
obligation to make the truth value of q the same as the truth value of p only arises
when the hearer made p false (Column 4); no such obligation arises if the hearer of
a conditional threat made p true (Column 2). These deontic commitments influence
what sort of inferences interlocutors are likely to make. It could be argued that they
do so in the following way. As a conditional promisee, I operate with a tacit assump-
tion/knowledge that the conditional promisor is obliged to make the truth value of q
the same as the truth value of p if I, the hearer, make p true. So, if I additionally
assume that the promisor has spoken truly, I am likely to infer that, if I make p true,
the speaker will make q true too (MP). Similarly, for threats – as a conditional
threatenee, I operate with a tacit assumption/knowledge that the conditional threat-
ener is obliged to make the truth value of q the same as the truth value of p if I, the
hearer, make p false. So, if I additionally assume that the threatener has spoken
truly, I am likely to infer that, if I make p false, the speaker will make q false too
(DA). However, notice that missing from this explanation is the crucial observation
that even though we are dealing with two different logical inferences for the two
inducements – MP for promises and DA for threats – at the level of content, these
two inferences share the minor premise (I lend the speaker the bike) and the conclu-
sion (the speaker helps me with the homework). When we look at what is going on
here from a more general socio-cognitive perspective, it transpires that we are deal-
ing with two formally distinct inferences which are driven by one and the same
assumption that the speaker is obliged to keep the terms of the given inducement, or,
more generally, to behave in a cooperative way. So, a simpler explanation to the one
I offered above is this: if a hearer of a conditional inducement operates with a tacit
to (p & ~q). Furthermore, the findings reported in Beller (2002), Beller et al. (2005) and Sztencel
and Clarke (in prep) are actually vague with respect to which option, 1 or 2 – applies. Determining
that requires more thinking and, eventually, more experimental work.
5.3 Why if Does Not Encode Material Implication
142
assumption that the speaker intends to cooperate, the hearer is likely to perform MP
in the case of promises and DA in the case of threats. The logical asymmetry which
manifests itself in the two formally distinct inferences for the two types of induce-
ment is actually a reflection of a more explanatory and homogeneous socio-­cognitive
assumption, viz. that the conditional inducer intends to keep the terms of the
inducement.
The speaker’s obligation to make the truth value of q the same as the truth value
of p amounts to the LACK OF PERMISSION to make the truth value of q differ-
ent from that of p. Moving down Table 1 to permission, for promises, this lack of
permission only arises in a situation in which the hearer made p true (Column 1),
whereas for threats, it only arises when the hearer made p false (Column 4). From a
socio-cognitive perspective, we are dealing here with a lack of permission for the
speaker to break the terms of an inducement, or, in other words, to behave in an
uncooperative way. These predictions as to what is not permitted for the speaker to
do and the predictions as to what the speaker is obliged to do complement each
other in driving the respective MP and DA inferences.
Consistent with the prediction that the conditional promisor is only obliged to
make the truth value of q the same as the truth value of p in a situation in which the
hearer made p true (Column 1) is the prediction that the promisor is FREE to make
q true or false in a situation in which the hearer made p false (Column 3). This, as
discussed in the previous sections, is consistent with the logic of MI. Threats, how-
ever, are different. Consistent with the prediction that the conditional threatener is
only obliged make the truth value of q the same as the truth value of p in a situation
in which the hearer made p false (Column 4) is the prediction that the threatener is
free to make q true or false in a situation in which the hearer made p true (Column
2). What we find in Column 2 is, on option 1, inconsistent with the logic of MI or,
more generally, with the ∼(p & ∼q) constraint, which is postulated even by non-­
truth-­
functional accounts. But what about option 2?
Now, of special interest to us is the question whether this logical asymmetry
between promises and threats leads us to reject the ∼(p & ∼q) constraint as uni-
formly applying to conditionals. In particular, we need to consider whether it is
possible to square the predictions for permission in Column 2 (permission to (p &
∼q)) with the ~(p & ~q) constraint. Let us look at option 2, repeated below for
convenience.
Option 2: (p & ∼q) counts as breaking the terms of (falsifying) a conditional threat.
However, we are permitted to break some threats in this way – i.e. we are permit-
ted to go back on, or “retrospectively falsify” some of our threats in this way –
particularly when doing so counts as noble behaviour. This option is consistent
with the ~(p & ~q) constraint.
From a socio-cognitive perspective, the logical asymmetry, which manifests
itself in that (p & ∼q) is not permitted for promises but, inversely, permitted for
threats, is explained by the following observation. For promises, (p & ∼q) involves
the speaker being uncooperative in response to, or regardless of, the hearer’s coop-
erative behaviour; in other words, it involves the speaker breaking the terms of the
5  The Meaning of if
143
promise. For threats, however, (p & ∼q) involves the speaker being the better person
in a situation in which the hearer did not cooperate. That is why (p & ∼q) is not
permitted for promises but permitted for threats. Indeed, when approached from a
socio-cognitive perspective, the inverse effect which manifests itself as:
–
– permission for threats (Column 2) and lack of permission for promises (Column
1) to (p & ∼q); and
–
– permission for promises (Column 3) and lack of permission for threats (Column
4) to (∼p & q)
reflects a uniform lack of permission to break the terms of an inducement (Columns
1 and 4) and a uniform permission to be the better person (Columns 2 and 3).
Let us now return our attention to the permission to be the better person and
consider whether permission for a conditional threatener to (p & ∼q) counts as
breaking the terms of (going back on, retrospectively falsifying) a conditional threat.
In order to establish whether it does, we need to see what the case is on the promises
side with respect to permission for a conditional promisor to be the better person.As
we know, permission for a conditional promisor to be the better person amounts to
(∼p & q), which is consistent with the logic of MI, and, to the best of my knowl-
edge, has never been analysed in terms of “retrospectively falsifying” a conditional
promise. Thus, if we were to agree that being the better person does not count as
breaking the terms of, or going back on, a conditional promise, it would be incon-
sistent, from a socio-cognitive perspective, to maintain that being the better person
counts as breaking the terms of, or going back on, a conditional threat. From the
socio-cognitive perspective, our claims should be the same for both inducements.At
issue here is the question of whether we want to (i) save the socio-cognitive sym-
metry at the cost of rejecting the ~(p & ~q) constraint as providing the semantics for
conditionals; or (ii) save the ~(p & ~q) constraint as providing the semantics for
conditionals at the cost of rejecting the importance of the socio-cognitive symmetry.
I think that (i) is more explanatory than (ii). However, before we decide that (i) is
indeed acceptable, we need to consider the question of what makes an inducement
successful, or felicitous. Let us start from promises.
(42) If you lend me your bike, I’ll help you with the homework.
It is a traditional assumption, discussed in earlier sections of this chapter, that (42)
can receive a material or biconditional interpretation. The biconditional interpreta-
tion is consistent with the inducement function of the utterance of (42) in the follow-
ing way. On the biconditional interpretation, (42) can function as a successful
inducement because the hearer assumes that the speaker will cooperate in response
to the hearer’s cooperative behaviour (i.e. (p & ~q) will not be the case) and that the
speaker will not be the better person should the hearer decide not to cooperate (i.e.
(~p & q) will not be the case). In other words, the biconditional interpretation
involves both the ~(p & ~q) constraint and the ~(~p & q) constraint.
However, the material interpretation of conditional promises is different. It
involves the ~(p & ~q) constraint, which allows the hearer to assume that the speaker
5.3 Why if Does Not Encode Material Implication
144
will cooperate in response to the hearer’s cooperative behaviour. But it does not
involve the ~(~p & q) constraint, the lack of which makes the hearer assume that the
speaker might actually choose to be the better person (the speaker is permitted to ~q
or to q). So if the material interpretation suffices to induce the hearer of a condi-
tional promise to make p true, it does so only by virtue of the assumption that the
~(p & ~q) constraint obtains. From the socio-cognitive perspective, the material
interpretation of a conditional promise suffices to induce the hearer by virtue of the
hearer’s assumption that the speaker will cooperate in response to the hearer’s coop-
erative behaviour and the uncertainty about what will follow in a situation in which
the hearer doesn’t cooperate.
Let us now look at threats.
(41) If you don’t lend me your bike, I will not help you with the homework.
Threats, like promises, can receive the biconditional interpretation. As is the case
with promises, the biconditional interpretation of threats also involves the ~(p & ~q)
constraint and the ~(~p & q) constraint. However, in line with the predictions of the
Inverse Effect Hypothesis, these constraints have inverse outcomes, or correspond
to inverse assumptions about deontic commitments. For threats, the ~(~p & q) con-
straint allows the hearer to assume that the speaker will cooperate in response to the
hearer’s cooperative behaviour, whereas the ~(p & ~q) constraint allows the hearer
to assume that the speaker will not be the better person should the hearer decide not
to cooperate.
Threats do not receive the material interpretation. If they did, they wouldn’t be
able function as inducements for hearers to behave in a cooperative way.26
For
example, the material interpretation of (41) would involve the assumption that if the
hearer makes p false (i.e. lends the speaker the bike), the speaker might decide to
make q true (i.e. not to help the hearer with the homework) and that doing so would
not count as breaking the terms of the threat. From this it follows that the ~(~p & q)
constraint is crucial to the interpretation of conditional threats and to their function-
ing as inducements. As for the ~(p & ~q) constraint, this constraint is not crucial to
the functioning of threats as inducements, just like the ~(~p & q) constraint isn’t
crucial to the functioning of conditional promises as inducements. Without the ~(p
& ~q) constraint, the conditional threatenee will assume that the conditional threat-
ener might choose to be the better person (the speaker is permitted to q or to ~q).
Nevertheless, the conditional threatenee will be induced to cooperate due to the
assumption that the ~(~p & q) constraint is in place; for threats, it is this constraint
which allows the hearer to assume that the speaker will cooperate in response to the
hearer’s cooperative behaviour. In sum, if this second (non-material and non-­
biconditional) interpretation suffices to induce the hearer of a conditional threat to
make p false, it does so only by virtue of the assumption that the ~(~p & q) con-
straint obtains (which, for threats, guarantees that the speaker will cooperate in
response to the hearer’s cooperative behaviour) and the uncertainty about what will
26
 More on that in Chap. 6.
5  The Meaning of if
145
follow in a situation in which the hearer doesn’t cooperate (which, for threats, is
related to the absence of the ~(p & ~q) constraint).
If we allow that the hearer’s assumption that the speaker will cooperate in
response to the hearer’s cooperative behaviour (combined with the uncertainty
about what will follow in a situation in which the hearer doesn’t cooperate) suffices
to induce the hearer of a conditional promise to cooperate (i.e. if we accept that the
material interpretation of conditional promises is possible), we must also allow that
the hearer’s assumption that the speaker of a conditional threat will cooperate in
response to the hearer’s cooperative behaviour (combined with the uncertainty
about what will follow in a situation in which the hearer doesn’t cooperate) suffices
to induce the hearer of a conditional threat to cooperate. This relation between con-
ditional promises and threats can be re-phrased in motivational terms; if we
acknowledge that a combination of (i) an appetitive, or reward-maximising, motive
for the hearer to cooperate (and thus receive a reward) combined with (ii) an
aversive,27
or punishment-maximising, motive to cooperate (and thus avoid the mere
possibility of punishment) is sufficient to induce a conditional promisee to cooper-
ate, it is plausible to acknowledge that for a conditional threatenee too. If that’s the
case, then the ~(p & ~q) constraint cannot be said to provide the unitary semantics
of conditionals.
One might object that a threat with only the ~(~p & q) constraint in place is an
“empty threat”. The preceding discussion has already indicated what such threats
are “empty” of. We have seen that without the ~(p & ~q) constraint in place, a con-
ditional threatenee will assume that the speaker might choose to be the better per-
son. In other words, the hearer won’t assume that the lack of cooperation on his part
will necessarily result in the lack of cooperation on the speaker’s part. It follows
then that an “empty” conditional threat is empty of a threat that the speaker will
definitely retaliate. Crucially, notice that such threats are not “empty” of a threat that
retaliation is possible.
In fact, we observe the same phenomenon with conditional promises when they
are interpreted materially. Without the ~(~p & q) constraint in place, a conditional
promisee will assume that the speaker might choose to be the better person. As is the
case with threats, so here the hearer won’t assume that the lack of cooperation on his
part will necessarily result in the lack of cooperation on the speaker’s part. From
this it follows that an “empty” conditional promise is empty of a threat that the
speaker will definitely retaliate – a threat which is present on the biconditional inter-
pretation of conditional promises. But the threat that retaliation is possible is still
there.
In principle, we could keep the name “empty” for conditional threats and prom-
ises which are empty of a threat that the speaker will definitely retaliate. But I think
that this name is a misnomer in that it suggests that threats especially are defective
and cannot function as successful inducements. I suggest replacing “empty” threats/
promises with ‘the better person possibility’ threats/promises. More specifically, I
argue that ‘the better person possibility’ interpretations and, accordingly, uses of “if
27
 Roseman et al.’s (1996) definitions of appetitive and aversive motives.
5.3 Why if Does Not Encode Material Implication
146
p, q” conditionals with ‘the better person possibility’ intentions are not defective but
can, and often do, induce hearers to cooperate with speakers by virtue of the assump-
tion that the speaker will cooperate in response to the hearer’s cooperative behav-
iour and the assumption the speaker might retaliate.
Now, this conclusion may be objected to on the grounds that, by virtue of their
“if p, q” formulation, conditional inducements linguistically encode the information
that, following the realisation of p, q will be realised – this involves keeping the
terms of the inducement for promises (incentive) and following through with the
negative consequences of the inducement for threats (disincentive). So, the argu-
ment could go, it is acceptable for the conditional promisor to be the better person
as promisors never say and are thus never semantically committed to what they will
do in a situation in which the promisee does not cooperate. But it is not acceptable
for the conditional threatener to be the better person as theateners always say and
are thus always semantically committed to what they will do in a situation in which
the threatenee does not cooperate. I’ll refer to this argument as the argument from
conditional formulation and argue that, whilst this argument indicates that we
should not opt for a wholesale rejection of the ~(p & ~q) constraint as operating on
conditional threats, it also shows that we should not assume that the ~(p & ~q) con-
straint applies to all conditional threats.
So why shouldn’t the argument from conditional formulation persuade us to
maintain the ~(p & ~q) constraint for all conditional threats? Firstly, the findings
reviewed at the beginning of this section actually suggest that the better person pos-
sibility uses and interpretations of conditionals are plausible.As discussed, a signifi-
cant majority of participants in Beller et al.’s (2005) and Sztencel and Clarke (in
prep) studies judge the speaker of a conditional threat as permitted to make q false
in a situation in which the hearer made p true. Relatedly, if the argument from con-
ditional formulation were to be maintained across-the-board, it could only be main-
tained at the cost of rejecting the socio-cognitive symmetry and, with it, the
explanatory potential that the socio-cognitive approach offers.
However, I have already mentioned that the Inverse Effect Hypothesis is not a
hypothesis about all conditional promises and threats, only those which allow for
the better person possibility uses and interpretations. This is to say that some con-
texts will block the better person possibility uses and interpretations of conditional
inducements and that we are likely to find some inter-speaker variation. For exam-
ple, whereas some people who judge the speaker of a conditional threat as permitted
to make q false in a situation in which the hearer made p true may be judging so
because they allow for the better person possibility use and interpretation of condi-
tional threats (and thus, on such occasions, cannot possibly be operating with the
assumption of the ~(p & ~q) constraint), others may be judging so because they
think that the speakers are simply permitted to change their mind and take the threat
back (which is consistent with the assumption of the ~(p & ~q) constraint and the
5  The Meaning of if
147
argument from conditional formulation). If that’s the case, then we must accept that
the ~(p & ~q) constraint applies to some, but not all, uses and interpretations of
conditional threats. A more in-depth discussion of the argument from conditional
formulation and its significance to the explicit-implicit distinction can be found in
Chap. 6.
If I am right in arguing that the ~(p & ~q) constraint applies to some, but not all,
uses and interpretations of conditional threats, then, as predicted, the scope of the
Inverse Effect Hypothesis is limited to the better person possibility uses and
­
interpretations. With the biconditional uses and interpretations of conditional
inducements we will not see the inverse effects, as Table 5.2 specifies.
Observe that whilst we have two separate predictions about the deontic commit-
ments for the better person possibility (Table 5.1) and the biconditional (Table 5.2)
uses and interpretations of conditional inducements (which is expected given that
they are two different interpretations), both sets are underpinned by socio-cognitive
uniformity. I have already discussed the socio-cognitive uniformity which is
reflected in the logical asymmetry pertaining to the better person uses and interpre-
tations. In the case of the biconditional uses and interpretations, the socio-cognitive
uniformity manifests itself in that the conditional inducers are (i) obliged to keep the
terms of the inducement ((p & q) for promises and (~p & ~q) for threats) and follow
through with the negative consequences of the inducement ((~p & ~q) for promises
and (p & q) for threats); and (ii) not permitted to break the terms of the inducement
((p & ~q) for promises and (~p & q) for threats) or to be the better person ((~p & q)
for promises and (p & ~q) for threats).
In summary, I have argued that the better person possibility threats, i.e. threats
which do not involve the hearer’s assumption of the ∼(p & ∼q) speaker intention,
can actually work as successful inducements to make the hearer refrain from an
undesired action – as long as the assumption of the ∼(∼p & q) constraint is in place.
The account presented here offers a uniform socio-cognitive analysis of conditional
promises and threats, one which foregrounds the interlocutors’ underlying assump-
tions about each other’s cooperative intentions.
Table 5.2  Deontic commitments for biconditional uses and interpretations of inducements
Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 Column 4
PROMISE THREAT PROMISE THREAT
H made: p p ~p ~p
S is:
To make:
Obliged Obliged Obliged Obliged
Permitted Permitted Permitted Permitted
q q ~q ~q
S is:
To make:
Not permitted Not permitted Not permitted Not permitted
Not obliged Not obliged Not obliged Not obliged
~q ~q q q
H hearer, S speaker
5.3 Why if Does Not Encode Material Implication
148
5.3.3.2  
A Note on Epistemology of Conditionals
Douven (2015) argues that instead of searching for a unitary semantics of if – an
approach that has so far proven fruitless – the time has come to address conditionals
from an epistemological perspective (see also Douven 2013; Krzyżanowska et al.
2013; Rescher 2007). The epistemological approach may, as a result, eventually
help us state a satisfactory semantics for if or it may lead us to conclude that if has
no uniform meaning at all.
The approach advocated here is very much in line with the epistemological
approach – after all, we have been interested in whether an analysis of cognisers’
background beliefs, including socio-cognitive assumptions about cooperation, helps
us predict what sort of inferences cognisers are justified to make when they hear a
conditional utterance. With respect to the question of whether epistemology can
lead us to uncover a unitary semantics for if, I hope to have shown in this chapter
that this prospect is becoming even more implausible and unnecessary than the
arguments of Chaps. 2, 3 and 4 suggested. But I will continue arguing in Chap. 6.
5.4  Conclusion
In this chapter, I have argued that there are two reasons why it is impossible to main-
tain the claim that if semantically encodes MI. Firstly, there are conditional belief
deviations from MI. Because such deviations take place at the level of belief, they
cannot be explained in terms of conversational principles. Secondly, the problem of
pragmatic intrusion into purportedly encoded semantics arises for Relevance Theory
just as it did for Grice.
I have argued that if MI applies, it does so at the level of holistic content. This
suggests that conditional beliefs – and thus the interpretation of conditionals – can
only be explained with reference to, because they arise at, the holistic/individualis-
tic cognitive level. This argument also strengthens the claim of the Representational
Hypothesis (e.g. Burton-Roberts 2013) that thought is the only locus of semantic
content, my claim (developed in Chaps. 2, 3 and 4) that such content is holistic and
thus accessible solely through pragmatic inference.
The last issue discussed in this chapter concerned the application of the ∼(p &
∼q) constraint to conditionals, a constraint which is posited by truth-functional and
non-truth-functional approaches. A deontic commitment analysis of conditional
promises and threats has revealed that the ∼(p & ∼q) constraint is absent from the
better person possibility uses and interpretations of conditional threats. I have
argued that the socio-cognitive approach offers a much more illuminating account
of conditional inducements, one which explains why the ∼(p & ∼q) constraint can-
not be some sort of unitary semantic constraint on the interpretation of conditionals.
The conclusion here is that, if it is assumptions about the deontic commitments of
speakers, including assumptions about how likely they are to choose to be the better
person, then it is a holistic inference which leads a hearer to infer that the ∼(p & ∼q)
5  The Meaning of if
149
constraint applies or that it doesn’t apply. If that’s the case, then the ∼(p & ∼q)
constraint may be seen as a pragmatic constraint.
In the next chapter, I show how the interpretation of conditionals can be explained
in terms of a wholly pragmatic inferential process operationalised in terms of
Hintzman’s (1986) multiple-trace theory of memory (introduced in Chap. 3) and its
extension to the study of conversational common ground by Horton and Gerrig
(2005). Looking in more detail at the expected inter-personal and intra-personal
variation in the interpretation of conditional inducements, I also discuss the implica-
tions that a wholly pragmatic account of utterance interpretation has for the distinc-
tion between explicit and implicit communication.
References
Adams, E. W. (1965). A logic of conditionals. Inquiry, 8, 166–197.
Beller, S. (2002). Conditional promises and threats – Cognition and emotion. In W. D. Gray &
C. D. Schunn (Eds.), Proceedings of the twenty-fourth annual conference of the cognitive sci-
ence society (pp. 113–118). Mahwah: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Beller, S., Bender, A., & Kuhnmünch, G. (2005). Understanding conditional promises and threats.
Thinking and Reasoning, 11(3), 209–238.
Burton-Roberts, N. (2005). Robyn Carston on semantics, pragmatics and ‘encoding’. Journal of
Linguistics, 41, 389–407.
Burton-Roberts, N. (2013). Meaning, semantics and semiotics. In A. Capone, F. Lo Piparo, &
M. Carapezza (Eds.), Perspectives on linguistic pragmatics (pp. 1–22). London: Springer.
Carston, R. (1988). Implicature, explicature, and truth-theoretic semantics. In R. Kempson (Ed.),
Mental representations (pp. 155–181). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. [Reprinted in
S. Davis, (Ed.), Pragmatics: A reader (pp. 33–51). New York: Oxford University Press].
Carston, R. (2002). Thoughts and utterances: The pragmatics of explicit communication. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Carston, R. (2012). Word meaning and concept expressed. The Linguistic Review, 29(4), 607–623.
Carston, R. (2013). Word meaning, what is said and explicature. In C. Penco & F. Domaneschi
(Eds.), What is said and what is not. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Comrie, B. (1986). Conditionals: A typology. In E.  Traugott et  al. (Eds.), On conditionals
(pp. 77–99). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Douven, I. (2010). The pragmatics of belief. Journal of Pragmatics, 42, 35–47.
Douven, I. (2013). The epistemology of conditionals. Oxford Studies in Epistemology, 4, 3–33.
Douven, I. (2015). The epistemology of indicative conditionals: Formal and empirical approaches.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Edgington, D. (1995). On conditionals. Mind, 104, 235–329.
Edgington, D. (2008). Conditionals. In E. N. Zalta (Ed.), The Stanford Encyclopedia of philoso-
phy. http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/conditionals. Accessed 25 Sept 2012.
Evans, J. S. B. T., & Over, D. E. (2004). If. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Evans, J. S. B. T., Handley, S. J., Neilens, H., & Over, D. E. (2007). Thinking about conditionals:
A study of individual differences. Memory & Cognition, 35(7), 1772–1784.
Fodor, J. (1998). Concepts: Where cognitive science went wrong. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Geiss, M. L., & Zwiky, A. M. (1971). On invited inferences. Linguistic Inquiry, 2(4), 561–566.
Grice, H. P. (1989). Studies in the way of words. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Hintzman, D. (1986). “Schema abstraction” in a multiple trace memory model. Psychological
Review, 93, 411–428.
Horn, L. (1989). Natural history of negation. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
References
150
Horn, L. (2000). From if to iff: Conditional perfection as pragmatic strengthening. Journal of
Pragmatics, 32(3), 289–326.
Horton, W. S., & Gerrig, R. J. (2005). Conversational common ground and memory processes in
language production. Discourse Processes, 40(1), 1–35.
Johnson-Laird, P. N., & Byrne, R. M. J. (2002). Conditionals:A theory of meaning, pragmatics and
inference. Psychological Review, 109, 646–678.
Johnson-Laird, P. N., Byrne, R. M. J., & Girotto, V. (2009). The mental model theory of condition-
als: A reply to guy Politzer. Topoi, 28, 75–80.
Krzyżanowska, K., Wenmackers, S., & Douven, I. (2013). Inferential conditionals and evidential-
ity. Journal of Logic, Language and Information, 22, 315–334.
Levinson, S. (1983). Pragmatics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Levinson, S. (2000). Presumptive meanings: The theory of generalized conversational implicature.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Lycan, W. G. (2001). Real conditionals. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Mauri, C., & van der Auwera, J. (2012). Connectives. In K. Allan & K. M. Jaszczolt (Eds.), The
Cambridge handbook of pragmatics (pp. 377–401). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Noh, E-J. (1996). A relevance-theoretic account of metarepresentative uses in conditionals. UCL
Working Papers in Linguistics, 8 (pp. 1–41).
Noh, E.-J. (2000). Metarepresentation: A relevance-theory approach.Amsterdam: John Benjamins
Publishing.
Oaksford, M., & Chater, N. (2003). Conditional probability and the cognitive science of condi-
tional reasoning. Mind & Language, 18(4), 359–379.
Recanati, F. (1991). The pragmatics of what is said. In S.  Davis (Ed.), Pragmatics: A reader
(pp. 97–120). New York: Oxford University Press.
Rescher, N. (2007). Conditionals. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Roseman, I.  J., Antoniou, A.  A., & Jose, P.  E. (1996). Appraisal determinants of emotions:
Constructing a more accurate and comprehensive theory. Cognition and Emotion, 10, 241–277.
Searle, J. R. (1971). What is a speech act? In J. R. Searle (Ed.), The philosophy of language
(pp. 39–53). London: Oxford University Press.
Searle, J. R., &Vanderveken, D. (1985). Foundations of illocutionary logic. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Smith, N. (1983). On interpreting conditionals. Australian Journal of Linguistics, 3, 1–23.
Smith, N., & Smith, A. (1988). A relevance-theoretic account of conditionals. In L. Hyman &
N.  Charles (Eds.), Language, speech and mind: Studies in honour of Victoria A.  Fromkin
(pp. 322–352). London/New York: Routledge.
Sperber, D., & Wilson, D. (1995). Relevance: Communication and cognition (2nd ed.). Oxford:
Blackwell Publishers Ltd.
Stalnaker, R. (1975). Indicative conditionals. Philosophia, 5, 269–286.
Sweetser, E. (1990). From etymology to pragmatics: Metaphorical and cultural aspects of seman-
tic structure. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Sztencel, M., & Clarke, L. (in prep). Deontic commitments in conditional promises and threats.
Thompson, V.A. (1994). Interpretational factors in conditional reasoning. Memory & Cognition,
22(6), 742–758.
Van der Auwera, J.  (1985). Language and logic. A speculative and condition-theoretic study.
Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Van der Auwera, J. (1997). Pragmatics in the last quarter century: The case of conditional perfec-
tion. Journal of Pragmatics, 27, 261–274.
Verbrugge, S., Dieussaert, K., Schaeken, W., & Van Belle, W. (2004). Promise is debt, threat
another matter: The effect of credibility on the interpretation of conditional promises and
threats. Canadian Journal of Experimental Psychology, 58, 106–112.
Verbrugge, S., Dieussaert, K., Schaeken, W., & Van Belle, W. (2005). Compelling promises and
hollow threats: Why you can keep someone to his promise but not to his threat. In Proceedings
of the 27th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society, 27th Annual Conference of the
Cognitive Science Society (pp. 2307–2312). Stresa, Italy.
5  The Meaning of if
151
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
M. Sztencel, Semantics, Pragmatics and Meaning Revisited,
Perspectives in Pragmatics, Philosophy & Psychology 17,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-69116-9_6
Chapter 6
Holistic and Individualistic Constraints
on Interpretation
The aim of this chapter is to show how the interpretation of conditionals can be
handled by a wholly pragmatic inferential process of utterance interpretation. I first
introduce Horton and Gerrig’s (2005) extension of a multiple-trace theory of mem-
ory into the study of common ground. Next, I revisit the Inverse Effect Hypothesis
and dismiss a potential argument against it, referred to in Chap. 5 as the argument
from conditional formulation. I then discuss basic uses of conditionals (where if
signals a relation between two propositional objects p and q) and look at various
relations which hold between p and q in such uses. Then, I move on to extended uses
of conditionals (where if signals a relation between a proposition and an utterance
(or speech act)) and discuss why the analysis I defend is more adequate than
Sweetser’s speech-act analysis. Finally, I discuss implications of a wholly prag-
matic approach to utterance interpretation for the explicit-implicit distinction.
6.1  
Interpretation of Conditionals and Common Ground
In the previous chapters I have argued that utterance interpretation is a wholly prag-
matic process, which necessarily depends on and is thus constrained by (cognitive)
contextual factors. A particular point I want to develop in the first section of this
Parts of this chapter have been reprinted from Lingua, 152, Magdalena Sztencel, Conditionality in
individual minds: an argument for a wholly pragmatic approach to utterance interpretation, 81–97,
Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V., with permission from Elsevier.
The quotation from Discourse Processes, 40 (1), William S. Horton & Richard J. Gerrig, 2005,
Conversational common ground and memory processes in language production, 1–35, Copyright
© Society of Text and Discourse, is reprinted here by permission of Taylor & Francis Ltd, www.
tandfonline.com on behalf of Society of Text and Discourse, www.societyfortextanddiscourse.org.
The quotation from Discourse Processes, 35 (1), Jennifer Hamblin & Raymond Gibbs, 2003,
Processing the meanings of what speakers say and implicate, 59–80, is reprinted here by permis-
sion of the publisher (Taylor & Francis Ltd, http://www.tandfonline.com).
152
chapter is that part of the contextual assumptions involved in the interpretation of
conditionals is the interlocutors’ knowledge of one another’s holistic state of mind.
My argument is compatible with, and strengthened by, recent (Horton and Gerrig
2005; Horton 2008) psycholinguistic work on the notion of common ground.
6.1.1  
Horton and Gerrig’s Notion of Common Ground
Horton and Gerrig (2005) are interested in the notion of common ground, which
concerns the set of assumptions (knowledge, beliefs, etc.) which interlocutors in a
conversation consider as shared for the purposes of communication (Clark 1994).
Consider the following exchange (taken from Horton and Gerrig (2005)).
(1) A: Oh first of all I have Shana’s shower coming up that I have to do.
B: Ah, that’s right.
A: That’s going to be like a huge like 3 day effort with all the cooking and
cleaning and like actually party [sic] that I have to do.
B: Is there anyone you can get to help you?
A: Um Jessica’s going to help and Beth might because you see,
Diane is here now.
B: Oh okay.
Horton and Gerrig (2005) are concerned with what lies behind the successful use of
referring expressions exemplified by Shana’s shower, Beth, Jessica and Diane in
(1). They are interested in what it is that makes B successfully interpret the use of
these expressions; how it is that A knows what expressions to use to ascertain a suc-
cessful interpretation of them by B; and how it is that A and B know that what A
intended to communicate by the use of a given expression is what B understood as
intended by A. In other words, Horton and Gerrig are interested in psycholinguistic
underpinnings of the notion of common ground.
As observed by Clark (1994: 989), successful communication, like any joint
activity, depends on participants’ co-ordination of their actions through making
assumptions about each other. Clark (ibid.) distinguishes between communal com-
mon ground, which concerns the assumptions taken to be shared by members of
the same general community, and personal common ground, which refers to
more specific mutual knowledge, etc. that interlocutors have inferred about each
other from past experiences with each other. As Clark (1994: 990) puts it, common
ground is ‘the background, the context, for everything the participants jointly do
and say in [discourse]’. The goal of Horton and Gerrig (2005) is to propose a set of
mechanisms that give rise to the effect described as common ground.
Horton and Gerrig (2005: 2) argue that common ground is not a category of spe-
cialised mental representations, but ‘an emergent property of ordinary memory pro-
cesses acting on ordinary memory representations’. Horton and Gerrig (2005)
assume that speakers produce utterances which are suited to particular addressees.
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
153
Similarly, listeners assume that speakers’ utterances were designed with the listen-
ers’ needs in mind (Horton 2008: 193). Thus, when B in (1) indicates an under-
standing of who Shana is, it means, for Horton and Gerrig (2005: 3), that A has
‘correctly formulated her utterance against the belief that Shana is part of their
common ground’. A general idea illustrated by this example is that speakers adjust
their utterances to particular audiences by incorporating their assumptions about
their interlocutors’ knowledge, etc.  – a phenomenon referred to as audience
design.
According to Horton and Gerrig (2005), two processes are relevant in audience
design: commonality assessment and message formation. Commonality assess-
ment concerns cue-dependent retrieval of episodic memory traces1
which store
information associated with a particular interlocutor. The retrieval of interlocutor-­
specific information allows interlocutors to assume communal or personal common
ground. Message formation concerns the use of such retrieved information in con-
structing an utterance. Thus, for Horton and Gerrig (2005: 4), utterances reflect the
speaker’s beliefs about common ground.
Let us look at (1) again. The fact that A chose the proper name Shana (rather than
a more descriptive phrase like my sister Shana, etc.) reflects A’s belief that the con-
cept of Shana is co-present for A and B (i.e. that it is in the common ground). This
assumption of common ground (and the subsequent use of the proper name) relies
on a strong pattern of associations in A’s memory between (the concepts of) A, B
and Shana. But how does the assumption of common ground arise? In other words,
how is a particular set of memory traces (associations between A, B and Shana)
activated? Horton and Gerrig (2005: 9–10) argue that conversational interlocutors
serve as highly salient cues for the retrieval of traces which are involved in the
assumption of common ground. Such cue-based retrieval of interlocutor-associated
information accounts for the readiness in memory of records of interlocutor-related
experiences and their availability to processes of speech production and
comprehension.
Horton and Gerrig (2005: 10) argue that from a pool of stored information only
those traces will be retrieved which are most consistently associated with the cue
(here, with the interlocutor in a given context). Furthermore, only those traces will
become relevant to the processes of language production and comprehension which
are retrieved within an adequate time frame. Given such constraints, interlocutor-­
specific information which is too weak or too slow will not have an immediate
impact on the language production and comprehension processes.
Horton and Gerrig (2005: 14–15) point out that the final products of commonal-
ity assessment do not always occur prior to message formation. The processes of
commonality assessment and message formation interact so that partial commonal-
ity assessment may influence message formation and message formation may influ-
ence the (re)assessment of commonality. The interaction is dynamic because it is
1
 
Horton and Gerrig (2005: 11) argue that commonality assessment arises via the mechanism of
resonance (echo retrieval), proposed by e.g. Hintzman (1986). Resonance provides a parallel
search of memory and thus allows a wide range of associated information to be accessible.
6.1 
Interpretation of Conditionals and Common Ground
154
subject to the demands of fluent conversation. Relatedly, commonality assessment
is not an infallible process. Hence, commonality mis-assessment and subsequent
hearer-inappropriate message formation may take place, which results in a commu-
nicative failure.2
Horton (2008: 196) suggests that a process analogous to message formation in
language production is the process of message interpretation in language com-
prehension. Horton does not explain how this process works, but it seems plausible
to assume that the process of message interpretation is the reverse of the process of
message formation: the form of the utterance will influence commonality assess-
ment and thus constrain the search for the intended interpretation. For example, let
us assume that B in (1) knows two people called Diane  – Diane1 and Diane2.
Furthermore, B knows of another person called Diane, Diane3, whom only A knows
in person. Now, Diane1 is known only to B, Diane2 is known mutually to A and B,
and Diane3 is known only to A (B just knows of Diane3). Accordingly, two factors
related to (1) – (a) the utterance of the form Diane and (b) the utterance of it by A –
are likely to constrain the interpretation to mutually known Diane2. This is because
(a) and (b), acting as cues, are likely to activate memory records with associations
between (the concepts of) A, B and Diane2. Such commonality assessment seems
personal (because of the associations between A, B and Diane2). However, the com-
monality assessment relevant to the interpretation of Diane in (1) may also be more
communal in that the discourse preceding the utterance of Diane already constrains
the interpretation to individuals who are co-present for A and B, but also to those
who are co-present for Shana, Jessica and Beth.
In summary, Horton and Gerrig’s (2005) and Horton’s (2008) claim is that
interlocutor-­
specific information, i.e. information about common ground, is one of
many cues which are simultaneously integrated during language processing and that
it serves as an immediate constraint on language processing.3
In the next section, I
use Horton and Gerrig’s account of common ground to explain the better person and
the biconditional interpretations of conditionals.
6.1.2  
Common Ground and the Interpretation of Conditionals
In the previous chapter, I have argued that the interpretation of conditional promises
can receive the better person possibility or the biconditional interpretation. Consider
(14) from Chap. 5, repeated here as (2).
(2) If you pass the exam, I’ll take you to a restaurant.
2
 
Horton and Gerrig (2005: 28) argue that the process of message formation is not exclusively
constrained by the commonality assessment but also by factors like lexical frequency, recency, etc.
3
 
See also Horton and Slaten (2012) and Gerrig, Horton and Stent (2011) for corpus-based and
experimental studies which support this hypothesis.
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
155
Let us imagine a scenario – scenario (i) – on which the speaker of (2) is an over-­
indulgent grandmother of the hearer. In scenario (i), the hearer stores memory
records of grandma promising q if p, where p corresponds to a successfully com-
pleted task (by the hearer or other member of his family) and q is a promised treat
for p. Crucially, the hearer stores memory records of non-completion of a given task
followed by the occurrence of a treat. Put simply, due to grandma’s tendency for
over-indulgence, the hearer remembers occasions on which q was T even though p
was F. Thus, in scenario (i), the product of personal commonality assessment is
likely to dictate to the hearer that he can make no assumptions as to what will hap-
pen if he fails the exam. In other words, the hearer is likely to interpret the indulgent
grandma as communicating that from the truth of p the truth of q will follow, and no
more than that – the grandma might or might not follow through with the negative
consequences of her inducement. This is the better person possibility interpretation,
which involves the ~(p & ~q) constraint, but not the ~(~p & q) constraint. On this
interpretation of (2), the grandmother is not taken to have communicated anything
about what she will do if the hearer fails the exam and thus it would not be surpris-
ing for the hearer to ask ‘What if I don’t pass the exam?’. Notice that this question
would reflect the hearer’s uncertainty about what will follow in a situation in which
the hearer makes p false and that this uncertainty can be linked to the argument from
the conditional formulation: the hearer is asking what follows from ~p because it is
not clear from the way (“if p, q”) that grandma has formulated her inducement.
Indeed, if the indulgent grandma wanted to communicate and be taken to com-
municate that q iff p, the product of commonality assessment would most probably
dictate to her that the form in (2) with an unmarked intonation pattern would not be
sufficient to communicate that q iff p to this particular interlocutor. Thus, if the
indulgent grandma wanted to communicate to her grandson that q iff p, she would
be likely to put stress on if. Putting the stress on if would have the (intended) effect
of making the shared background assumptions – that is, the assumptions about the
grandma’s tendency for over-indulgence – irrelevant to this particular conversation.
Alternatively, the indulgent grandma could use the more specific (3) to successfully
communicate that q iff p.
(3) If you pass the exam, I’ll take you to a restaurant but if you don’t, I won’t.
Thus, it is the utterance of (2) (with an unmarked intonation pattern), combined with
the fact that it is uttered by a particular interlocutor (the hearer’s grandma who is
known to the hearer to be over-indulgent) which give rise to the better person pos-
sibility interpretation. Similarly, the grandma’s assumption that the form in (2)
uttered with unmarked intonation is not sufficient to communicate that q iff p arises
due to her assumption of common ground with this particular hearer.
However, it is also plausible to imagine a scenario – scenario (ii) – in which the
speaker of (2) is a strict parent of the hearer. As in (i), so here, the utterance of (2)
combined with the fact that it is uttered by a strict parent of the hearer function as
cues to activate records of relevant past experiences. In (ii), the hearer stores mem-
ory records of the parent promising q (a treat) if p (an undertaking is successful) and
6.1 
Interpretation of Conditionals and Common Ground
156
also of consistent cause-effect associations between unsuccessful undertakings and
ensuing lack of treat. Given such commonality assessment, in scenario (ii), the
hearer of (2) is likely to interpret his parent as communicating that q iff p.
It is plausible to argue that given the personal commonality assessment relevant
to scenario (ii), choosing a more precise form such as (3) above to communicate that
q iff p would simply be redundant. Indeed, given the shared assumptions about the
parent’s strictness, it would be unlikely for the hearer to ask ‘What if I don’t pass the
exam?’. This is the biconditional interpretation, which involves both the ~(p & ~q)
constraint and the ~(~p & q) constraint.
As for conditional threats, in the previous chapter I have argued that some of
these inducements can also involve the better person possibility interpretation.
Consider (4), where the better person possibility interpretation is more likely than it
is in (5).
(4) If you don’t pass the exam, I’ll take your new scooter back to the shop.
(5) If you don’t pass the exam, I won’t take you to a restaurant.
The crucial difference between (4) and (5) is that whereas in (4) q may be perceived
as an unjust punishment (we shouldn’t take back what we have given), no such
sense of injustice is obviously present with (5). From this difference it follows that
whereas refraining from making q true in (4) may count as noble behaviour, refrain-
ing from making q true in (5) is less likely to count as such. Therefore, in accor-
dance with what I argued in Chap. 5, the better person possibility use and
interpretation of (4) is plausible. That, however, depends on the context.
For example, if (4) was uttered by a strict parent, then the hearer would be
licensed to infer that both the ~(p & ~q) constraint and the ~(~p & q) constraint are
in place. This is the biconditional interpretation. If, however, (4) was uttered by a
grandma, the hearer would be licensed to infer that the ~(~p & q) constraint is in
place, but not the ~(p & ~q) constraint, giving rise to the better person possibility
interpretation, whereby the grandma may refrain from taking the scooter back
(because taking it back would hardly count as noble behaviour) or may actually take
the scooter back (because she a-said she would). As argued in Chap. 5, the presence
of the ~(~p & q) constraint and the mere possibility of (p & q) are sufficient to make
(4) a successful inducement.
If I am right in arguing that conditional threats like that in (4) can receive the
better person possibility interpretation, then more things need to be said about the
argument from conditional formulation, as promised in Chap. 5. This argument pre-
dicts that conditional inducers are not committed to any course of action in a situa-
tion in which a hearer makes p false (doesn’t cooperate for promises, cooperates for
threats), only to what they will do in a situation in which the hearer makes p true
(cooperates for promises, doesn’t cooperate for threats) – thus casting doubt on the
better person possibility interpretation of conditional threats and, in general, the
Inverse Effect Hypothesis. Let us now consider the consequences that this predic-
tion, if correct, should have for our acceptability judgements regarding the hearer’s
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
157
potential verbal responses to inducements. If the prediction from conditional formu-
lation is correct then, on the assumption that the conditional inducer is taken by the
hearer to have spoken truly, it should feel acceptable for the hearer to ask the speaker
what follows in a situation in which he makes p false (because what follows in this
situation was not a-said). However, consider the promise in (6) and its complemen-
tary threat in (4).
(6) If you pass the exam, I won’t take your new scooter back to the shop.
(4) If you don’t pass the exam, I’ll take your new scooter back to the shop.
Observe that, in response to (6), it seems acceptable for the promisee to ask whether
the scooter will actually be taken back (~q) if the promisee fails the exam (~p); the
question that aims to confirm that – ‘What if I don’t pass the exam?’ – is consistent
with the argument from conditional formulation. Notice also that the acceptability
of this question chimes well with the predictions of the Inverse Effect Hypothesis,
according to which the conditional promisor is free to make q true or false in a situ-
ation in which the hearer made p false (indicating that the ~(~p & q) constraint is
not at work here). Notice further that this question reflects the hearer’s interest in
whether he can get away with not cooperating.
As for (4), things look different. The hearer’s question about whether ~q will
actually follow if p is false (What if I pass the exam?) would not reflect the hearer’s
interest in whether he could get away with not cooperating. Rather, it would reflect
the hearer’s worry that the speaker cannot be trusted (to keep the terms of the
inducement). Indeed, notice that on the assumption that the speaker of (4) has spo-
ken truly and intends to keep the terms, the question ‘What if I pass the exam?’
would be inappropriate/out of place. This is because, if asked, it would indicate the
hearer’s lack of trust in the speaker’s intention to keep the terms of the inducement.
The deontic commitment analysis, in particular the Inverse Effect Hypothesis,
explains why this question should feel inappropriate/out of place: it is because the
speakers of conditional threats, unlike conditional promisors, are judged as obliged
to make q false in a situation in which the hearer makes p false.
Now, the unacceptability of this question, on the assumption that the conditional
threatener has spoken truly (and thus intends to keep the terms), follows from the
~(~p & q) constraint. But this constraint clearly operates beyond the level of what is
merely a-said (beyond the level of the representans). What this shows is that the
semantic commitment of the conditional threatener is not tied to the mere represen-
tans (the formulation) but, more fundamentally – and deservingly of the name – to
the semantics (of the communicated thought), the derivation of which is underlain
by the socio-cognitive principles discussed in Chap. 5.
This is a welcome result as it has more explanatory potential than an account
which ties semantic commitments to the formulations. Notice that a formulation-­
based account of semantic commitments would have to reject the importance of the
socio-cognitive generalisation put forward as the Inverse Effect Hypothesis and
limit the “semantic” commitment for all conditionals to the commitment that the
truth of q follows from the truth of p. The account proposed here ties semantic com-
6.1 
Interpretation of Conditionals and Common Ground
158
mitments to (the communicated) thought, which, in line with the Representational
Hypothesis, is the only locus of semantic content.
To summarise the points made so far in this chapter, we have established that:
	 (i)	 Conditional promises and threats can receive the biconditional interpretation.
This involves both the ~(p & ~q) constraint and the ~(~p & q) constraint.
	(ii)	Conditional promises can receive the better person/material4
interpretation.
This involves the ~(p & ~q) constraint, but not the ~(~p & q) constraint.
	
(iii)	 Conditional threats can receive the better person interpretation. This involves
the ~(~p & q) constraint, but not the ~(p & ~q) constraint.
As discussed in Chap. 5, the biconditional interpretation of conditionals is not lim-
ited to any homogenous group of examples: conditional promises, threats, injunc-
tions and universal conditionals can all be interpreted in this way. We have seen that
Smith and Smith (1988) argue for a relevance theoretic explanation of the bicondi-
tional interpretation; because the uttering of “p”, like any utterance, carries with it a
presumption of its relevance, the speaker assumes that the hearer will be in position
to assume that p is relevant in the context of q.
However, I argue that this account of Smith and Smith’s (1988) is actually too
general to explain the difference between the biconditional and material interpreta-
tions. The problem for Smith and Smith is that p is relevant to q even on the material
interpretation. It must be relevant if we assume that this interpretation involves the
MP inference; if p were not relevant to q on the weak interpretation, how could we
ever infer that the speaker has communicated that from the truth of p the truth of q
will follow? At issue here is not the question of whether p is relevant to q (any utter-
ance will convey the assumption of its own relevance, as argued in RT), but the way
in which p and q are relevant to each other. Does their relevance with respect to each
other justify the hearer’s reliance on and acting upon the conclusions of the MP, MT,
DA and AC inferences, as is the case for (i) above? Does it justify the hearer’s reli-
ance on and acting upon the conclusions of MP and MT, as is the case in (ii)? Does
it justify the hearer’s reliance on and acting upon the conclusions of the DA and AC,
as is the case in (iii)? Or does it justify the hearer’s reliance on and acting upon the
conclusion of MT, as is the case in (7),
(7) If Rachel can drive a truck, then I am Mickey Mouse.
where the rejection of the conclusion of MP justifies the acceptance of the conclu-
sion of MT.  The biconditional interpretation cannot be explained by Smith and
Smith’s proposal that, because the speaker has uttered “p”, the truth value of p must
be relevant to the truth value of q. This is because in all conditionals the interpreta-
tion relies on the assumption that the truth value of p is relevant to the truth value of
q, in one way or another.
As argued in this section, what sort of inferences we make, and are assumed to
be able to make, will depend on the (cognitive) context, including the assumption of
4
 I discuss the issue of the paradoxes of MI later on this section.
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
159
common ground (as in the over-indulgent grandma and strict parent scenarios).
Unlike earlier approaches to the interpretation of conditionals, a radically contextu-
alist, wholly pragmatic approach defended here is able to explain how the holistic
(cognitive) contextual conditions lead to the different interpretations of
conditionals.
6.1.2.1  
A Note on the So-called Paradoxes of Material Implication
In the introduction to Chap. 5, I promised to show that the mutual exclusivity of the
pro-MI versus anti-MI camps is only apparent because it is based on the dubious
premise that there exists such a thing as linguistic semantics which is constituted by
some supra-personal content. In Chap. 5 and here I have been arguing that both MI
and the ~(p & ~q) constraint may play a part in the interpretation of some condition-
als but whether they do is dependent on a wholly pragmatic inference. In other
words, I have been arguing that if anything is the locus of MI (and of the ~(p & ~q)
constraint), it is holistic thought, and not linguistic expressions generated by the
language module that are such locus.
Now, as discussed in Chap. 5, the existence of the so-called paradoxes of MI is
problematic for the assumption of an MI semantics of conditionals. But their exis-
tence also casts doubt on the assumption that what I have been calling ‘material
interpretations’ are rightly so called. The complexity of the issue is well illustrated
by the recent experimental study by Orenes and Johnson-Laird (2012), where the
authors have found that individuals accept conclusions of the so-called paradoxes if
the conclusions refer only to possibilities which are consistent with the premises, as
in (8), but reject the conclusions which refer to a possibility inconsistent with the
premise, as in (9).
(8) Luisa didn’t play soccer; therefore, if Luisa played a game then
she didn’t play soccer.
(9) Luisa didn’t play music; therefore, if Luisa played a game then she
didn’t play music.
Now, the argument in (8) is modelled by MI, which is evidenced by the acceptability
of the conclusion of MT – which here equals accepting that If Luisa played a game
and played soccer, then she played soccer. The same is the case with (9), where
accepting the conclusion of MT equals accepting that If Luisa played a game and
played music, then she played music. Despite this similarity between (8) and (9), the
significant majority of participants accept the conclusion of the argument in (8) but
reject the conclusion of the argument in (9).5
Orenes and Johnson-Laird (2012) data
illustrate two points that I want to make.
First, the so-called paradoxes are only paradoxical if one assumes that MI is the
encoded semantics of if. If we reject the assumption that linguistic semantics exists,
5
 See Orenes and Johnson-Laird (2012) for the discussion of other paradoxes.
6.1 
Interpretation of Conditionals and Common Ground
160
we can accept that the applicability of MI will be determined by context, including
co-text (or “content” in Orenes and Johnson-Laird’s parlance). In particular, the
rejection of the conclusion in (9) seems to be driven by the lack of perceived rele-
vance between playing a game and playing music (see Bonnefon and Politzer
2011).6
So the rejection of linguistic semantics allows us to acknowledge that mate-
rial interpretations, which include the acceptance of the conclusions of MP, MT as
well as the so-called paradoxes are possible and, if they arise, they do so through
holistic inference. This presents a solution to the long standing pro-MI versus anti-
­
MI debate, a solution which marries the anti-MI argument that if cannot semanti-
cally encode MI with the pro-MI intuition that MI must have something important
to do with conditionals. The ‘something to do’ equals ‘can be holistically inferred’
and ‘conditionals’ needs to be qualified to ‘some uses of conditionals’. How about
the interpretations which include the acceptance of the conclusions of MP, MT but
not of the paradoxes? Do they warrant the name ‘material’? I will leave this issue
for another occasion and, for now, simply acknowledge that some contexts facilitate
the rejection of and others the acceptance of the “paradoxes”. From now on, I will
put this distinction aside and refer to the uses of conditionals which facilitate MP
and MT, but not DA or AC as material (regardless of the rejection/acceptance of the
conclusions of the “paradoxes”).
Second, I would like to argue that the pragmatically determined (i.e. holistic and
individualistic) application of MI does not at all indicate that MI itself is not subject
to a realist-naturalistic inquiry. Indeed, assuming that thought is the locus of MI and
that the system of thought is subject to a realist-naturalistic inquiry, it follows that
MI is subject to a realist-naturalistic inquiry in the following fundamental sense:
even though the question of when MI applies is pragmatically determined, the fact
that it does (and can) apply may still be naturalistically determined.
6.2  
Basic and Extended Uses of Conditionals
In this section, I discus a distinction between basic and extended uses of condition-
als. On basic uses of conditionals, if signals that there is some relation between two
propositions in a given cognitive context, whereas on extended uses, if signals that
there is a relation between a proposition and an utterance (or speech act). However,
before I say more about this distinction, I explain why van der Auwera’s (1985) and
Sweetser’s (1990) sufficient conditionality approach, as well as Relevance Theory’s
notion of procedural semantics, are inadequate to handle the variation found in the
interpretation of conditionals.
6
 Specific contexts can, of course, indicate that the two are relevant.
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
161
6.2.1  
A Digression on Sufficient Conditionality
and Procedural ‘Meaning’
In Sect. 6.1.2, I argued, in contrast to Smith and Smith (1988), that the notion of
relevance of p to q is not distinctive of the strong interpretation of conditionals.
Indeed, any use of “if p, q” signifies that p and q are relevant to each other in some
way or another. One way of thinking about the relevance of p to q is in terms of the
notion of sufficient conditionality, which was first proposed by van der Auwera
(1985) and later developed by Sweetser (1990).
6.2.1.1  Sufficient Conditionality
Van der Auwera (1985) puts forward the Sufficient Conditionality Thesis, where it
is argued that if is a modal operator, requiring some consequential relation – the
sufficiency condition – to hold between p and q for if p, q to be T. For van der
Auwera, the sufficiency condition constitutes the encoded non-truth-functional
semantics of if.
Sweetser (1990) argues that van der Auwera’s sufficient conditionality approach
can be maintained as long as it is recognised that conditionality operates in three
distinct cognitive domains: the content domain, the epistemic domain and the
speech act domain. In the content domain, one state of affairs (p) is a sufficient
condition for the occurrence of another (q). In the epistemic domain, a given prem-
ise (p) is a sufficient condition to derive a conclusion (q). In the speech act domain,
p is a sufficient condition for the speech act made in uttering “q”. However, there are
problems with the sufficient conditionality account. Consider (23) from Chap. 5,
repeated below as (10).
(10) A: Two and eleven makes thirty.
B: If two and eleven makes thirty, you need more work on maths.
Noh (2000) argues  – rightly, I think  – that the conditional in (10B) cannot be
explained in terms of sufficient conditionality. In the content domain, it cannot be
argued that the truth of the antecedent is sufficient for the truth of the consequent
because the antecedent is obviously false. The problem also arises in the epistemic
and speech act domains – the truth of the antecedent cannot be sufficient for con-
cluding or asserting (respectively) that the referent of you needs more work on
maths because the antecedent is false. This shows that sufficient conditionality is
not the unitary non-truth-functional aspect of the encoded semantics of if (contrary
to what van der Auwera and Sweetser argue).
Indeed, in some instances of conditional suggestions/advice, the antecedent is
not a condition on q. Consider (11).
(11) If you want to make your parents happy, quit smoking.
6.2 
Basic and Extended Uses of Conditionals
162
The antecedent in (11) does not represent a condition on the consequent. Rather, the
antecedent represents a (given) goal, which is embedded in the opaque context rep-
resented by want (suggesting that the truth of p is desired by the speaker). This goal,
it is suggested by the speaker of (11), can be accomplished by means of q. So, if
there is conditionality here, it runs in the opposite direction – in (11), it is q which
represents a condition for the achievement of the goal in p. I return to this point
shortly.
The second problem pertains to the fact that van der Auwera’s (1985) sufficient
conditionality account is a non-truth-functional account of the encoded semantics of
if. As noted in Chap. 5, non-truth-functional approaches, like truth-functional
approaches, make no prediction as to the truth value of the consequent when the
antecedent is F ([~p ├ (p ⊃ q)]). Consequently, the problem of conditional belief
deviations from MI arises for van der Auwera’s account just as it does for truth-­
functional approaches.
Furthermore, as shown in Sect. 5.3.2.5, Noh’s (2000) metarepresentational MI
analysis of (10B) is also problematic: it gives rise to the problem of pragmatic intru-
sion into encoded semantics, it undermines the theoretical significance of the notion
of metarepresentation and, because of Noh’s focus on metarepresentational faithful-
ness, it fails to acknowledge the relevance of the falsity of p to the truth of q. Clearly,
another account in needed.
6.2.1.2  Procedural ‘Meaning’
In the preceding chapters, I provided many arguments against the notion of encoded
semantics, in general, and encoded semantics of if, in particular. However, I need to
return to this issue once more.
In Relevance Theory (e.g. Carston 2002, 2010), words encode concept schemas,
full-fledged lexical concepts (as discussed in Chap. 3) or procedural ‘meanings’.
These procedural ‘meanings’ are not concepts. Rather, they are constraints on prag-
matic inference, i.e. they are processing instructions (Blakemore 1992). Consider
(12), taken from Blakemore.
(12) (a) John can open Bill’s safe. (b) He knows the combination.
Faced with (12), the hearer may not know how to process the relation between the
propositions communicated by (12a) and (12b); there is no way of telling whether
(a) is a premise and (b) a conclusion, or the other way round. If the speaker of (12)
wanted to communicate that (a) is a premise and (b) a conclusion, she would use so
in order to save the hearer the processing effort. Conversely, if the speaker of (12)
wanted to communicate that (b) is a premise and (a) a conclusion, she would use
after all.
Relevance Theory argues that, among other expressions, discourse markers (of
which so and after all are examples) encode procedural information. Accordingly,
so and after all encode instructions to the hearer on how to process the relation
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
163
between the propositions communicated by (a) and (b). In other words, they specify
the way in which (a) and (b) are relevant to each other. The question that needs to be
explored is whether it can be argued that if encodes a procedure of that sort.
Hussein (2008: 77–78), working in Relevance Theory, makes a distinction
between real conditionals and metarepresentational conditionals. Hussein’s
(2008) metarepresentational category parallels Sweetser’s speech act domain. His
real conditional category subsumes uses in the content as well as the cognitive
domain.7
On real conditional uses, the word if operates at a representational (i.e.
propositional) level where it relates two propositions. According to Hussein (2008,
2009), real conditional if semantically encodes MI plus some non-truth-functional
causal-consequential relation.
On metarepresentational uses, however, if does not relate two propositions but is
used to introduce a reason for uttering “q”. The interpretation of metarepresenta-
tional use is, according to Hussein (2008), independent of MI; here, Hussein (2008:
78) argues, ‘if does not contribute to the semantic representation of the conditional
but plays a role in the inferential part of the conditional interpretation by constrain-
ing the relevance of the second clause’.
Now, Hussein’s claim that real conditional if semantically encodes MI cannot be
maintained for the reasons discussed in Chap. 5. But could Hussein’s claim that
metarepresentational if encodes a procedural constraint on the ‘relevance of the sec-
ond clause’ be maintained and perhaps extended to real conditionals? Consider
(13).
(13) John can open Bill’s safe, so he knows the combination.
As discussed earlier, on RT’s account, so encodes an instruction to process what
precedes it as a premise and what follows as a conclusion. Thus, in (13), knowing
that John can open Bill’s safe allows the speaker to conclude that John knows the
combination. Consider now (14).
(14) If John can open Bill’s safe, he knows the combination.
When interpreted as operating in the epistemic domain, it could be argued that,
parallel to the use of so in (13), the use of if in (14) instructs the hearer to process p
a premise on the basis of which the conclusion q can be drawn. However, the prob-
lem with this assumption is that it makes the encoded semantics of if and so identi-
cal. Notice that invoking some encoded non-truth-functional causal-­
consequential
relation (e.g. sufficient conditionality) would not save such an argument either, as
causal-consequential (more specifically, inferential) relation is present in both (13)
and (14).8
7
 Noh (2000) also argues that Sweetser’s content and epistemic domains fall under one category of
descriptive uses (as opposed to metarepresentational uses).
8
 As observed by Strawson (1986), p and q are not asserted in ‘if p … q’, but they are asserted in ‘p
so q’. However, as we have seen (Sect. 5.3.2.5), some uses of ‘if p …q’ involve assertion. For
6.2 
Basic and Extended Uses of Conditionals
164
Furthermore, the nature of the purportedly encoded instruction would vary
depending on the context. Thus, in (14) above, if would have to instruct the hearer
to treat p as a premise and q as a conclusion. But in (7) (If Rachel can drive a truck,
then I am Mickey Mouse), if would have to instruct the hearer to treat q as a premise
and p as a conclusion. In (5) (If you don’t pass the exam, I won’t take you to a res-
taurant), the instruction would be to treat p as a cause and q as effect (on the content
domain interpretation). However, as argued earlier, the speaker of (11) (If you want
to make your parents happy, quit smoking) suggests that the goal represented in p
can be caused by q. Consider also (15), taken from Comrie (1986).
(15) If it will amuse you, I’ll tell you a joke.
Comrie (1986: 81) observes that in (15), the causal relation holds in both direc-
tions – my telling a joke (q) is the cause of you being amused (p), but also the
hearer’s future amusement (p) is the cause for the speaker telling the joke (q).
Now, if the inferential (i.e. premise-conclusion) relation can hold in any direc-
tion, as illustrated by (14) and (7), and if the causal relation can hold in both direc-
tions, as in (15), if would have to encode a very general procedure – similar in its
procedural value to the value of the full stop in (12). To complicate things yet fur-
ther, there are also speech-act domain uses. Consider (16), taken from Hussein
(2008).
(16) If you are thirsty, there is a lemon juice in the fridge.
If in (16) is treated by Hussein (2008: 78) as encoding a procedural instruction to
constrain the relevance of the second clause. According to Hussein, in (16), the fact
that there is lemon juice in the fridge is relevant to the person referred to in the if-­
clause, but no inferential or causal-consequential relation holds between the propo-
sitions expressed by p and q in any direction.9
Because of the variation in the ways in which p and q can be relevant to each
other, if if encoded some procedural ‘meaning’, it could only be an instruction to the
hearer that p and q are relevant to each other in some way or another. Furthermore,
given that relevance is a pragmatic (cognitive) notion, no such instruction can be
semantically encoded without undermining the claim that encoded semantics is
autonomous with respect to pragmatics. Indeed, since in RT, every utterance carries
example, in ‘If you’re thirsty, there’s beer in the fridge’, q is asserted. Arguably (and depending on
the definition of assertion, see e.g. MacFarlane 2010), the truth of p in (11) (If you want to make
your parents happy, quit smoking) is as non-debatable (i.e. taken for granted, in common ground)
as is the truth of ‘John can open Bill’s safe’ in (13). Of course, the truth of p in (11) is non-debat-
able on the interpretation where p is interpreted as a goal to which q is a means (i.e. when p is the
topic). I return to this point in this chapter.
9
 From the hearer’s thirst it cannot be concluded that there is lemon juice in the fridge (by MP), nor
would it follow (by MT) that if there is no juice in the fridge, then the hearer is not thirsty. The
hearer’s thirst is not a cause or reason for the presence of the juice in the fridge, nor is the absence
of the juice in the fridge a cause or reason for the absence of hearer’s thirst.
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
165
with it a presumption of its own relevance and since relevance is established in con-
text, encoding such an instruction would simply be redundant. These criticisms also
apply to a more recent proposal sketched by Assimakopoulos (2015), whereby the
connectives ‘and’, ‘or’ and ‘if’ encode procedural meanings.
Relevant to my arguments above is Carston’s (2013) criticism of Wilson’s (2011)
proposal that all words encode a procedural component (some in addition to a con-
ceptual component). In relation to Wilson’s proposal for content words, Carston
argues that open-class words ‘would all come with the same component of proce-
dural meaning, namely, ‘Construct an ad hoc concept based on the encoded con-
cept’, which seems odd […]’.
Carston is taking an issue here with the fact that such a procedure would not help
differentiate between words. However, another issue with Wilson’s proposal is that
a procedure which instructs a hearer to construct an ad hoc concept is a procedure
to search for an optimally relevant interpretation and, as such, it is redundant within
the framework of RT.
To conclude this section, I have argued that neither the sufficient conditionality
approach nor the notion of procedural semantics is able to handle the variation con-
cerning the relevance of p and q to each other.10
6.2.2  Basic Uses
Modulo differences (discussed above), it seems to me that Hussein’s (2008) twofold
distinction – between if which relates two propositions and if which relates a propo-
sition with an utterance – is on the right track. Accordingly, I will employ the term
basic use for cases where if is used to communicate that there is some relation (on
which below) between two propositions (p, q). I will employ the term extended
use for cases where if is used to communicate that there is some relation (on which
below) between a proposition p, and the utterance of “q”. In the remainder of this
section, I discuss basic uses.
6.2.2.1  
Basic Uses and Holistic Inference
I argue that in its basic use, if serves to indicate that p and q are relevant to each
other so that it will be possible to infer the truth value of one with respect to the
other. In line with the arguments presented in Chap. 5, I will show that the
10
 A procedural account can be saved as long as it does not involve commitment to encoding. That
is, it can be saved as long as procedures are understood as emerging from the interaction between
primary and secondary memory systems (in the sense of Hintzman 1986) and defined in terms of
acquiring a relation between a morpho-phonetic label and an aggregate of conceptual structures.
On this view, a procedure equals a (representational) convention, as defined in Sect. 3.2. However,
I prefer to use the term ‘convention’ to stress my rejection of encoding.
6.2 
Basic and Extended Uses of Conditionals
166
establishing of the truth value of q with respect to p or p with respect to q always
goes through in a holistic system of thought. Consider (9) from Chap. 5, repeated
here as (17).
(17) If it’s a square, it has four sides.
The interpretation of (17) is modelled by MI insofar as it allows the hearer to per-
form MP and MT, but not DA or AC. However, the fact that (17) is modelled by MI
(and that we reject the validity of DA and AC) relies on a holistic inference – in
order to know what inferences can and cannot be performed in the case of (17), one
needs to know that rectangles too have four sides. It is in virtue of this premise,
which is held in the holistic belief system, that the hearer of (17) can establish that
the truth of p is relevant to the truth of q so that the truth of q follows from the truth
of p, but not vice versa, and that the falsity of q is relevant to the falsity of p so that
the falsity of p follows from the falsity of q, but not vice versa. Consider also exam-
ple (18).11
(18) I can’t exactly remember the shape of the figure that John drew,
but if it wasn’t a square, it was certainly a triangle.
MI falsely predicts that if it actually was a square (antecedent is F), then we can
make no inference – in the light of (18) – as to whether the figure was a triangle or
not. But what the speaker of (18) is committing herself to is that from the falsity of
p in (18), the falsity of q follows. That is, what the speaker is communicating in (18)
is modelled by equivalence (DA). As above, in order to know what inferences can
and cannot be performed in the case of (18), one needs to know that nothing can be
both a square and triangle. It is in virtue of this premise, which is held at the holistic
level – and in the light of (18), which restricts the options to either a triangle or a
square – that the hearer can establish that in the case of (18): the truth of p is relevant
to the truth of q so that the truth of q follows from the truth of p, and vice versa, and
that the falsity of q is relevant to the falsity of p so that the falsity of p follows from
the falsity of q, and vice versa. Thus, as was the case in (17), the inferential process
triggered by the utterance of (18), takes place in a holistic domain of thought.
Indeed, the correctness of the inferential process depends on its taking place in a
holistic domain. Let us now re-consider (10).
(10) A: Two and eleven makes thirty.
B: If two and eleven makes thirty, you need more work on maths.
Arguably, (10B) can be analysed in three ways – (a) as representing the speaker’s
train of reasoning (reaching a conclusion q), (b) as communicating that p is F, or (c)
as suggesting that the hearer makes q T. On interpretation (a), from A’s utterance
and two premises: (i) that A believes x (a mathematical belief that two eleven makes
11
 This example is due to Noel Burton-Roberts.
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
167
thirty) is T and (ii) that x is F, B draws a conclusion (iii) that A needs more work on
maths.12
But the second premise (ii) holds in holistic thought (in fact, both premises
do). Thus, the inference from A’s utterance to the conclusion (iii) must go through
the holistic system; indeed, the plausibility of conclusion (iii) crucially depends on
this holistic premise (ii).13
On interpretation (b), (10B) is used to communicate that two and eleven does not
make thirty, i.e. that p is F. Presumably, A needs to somehow infer that p is F from
the utterance of (10B) and the assumption that B’s conclusion (q) is T. This infer-
ence clearly is not licensed by MI or equivalence. However, it can be explained once
it is acknowledged that it goes through in the holistic system of thought; from three
assumptions – (iv) that q is T, (v) that one needs more work on maths if one does not
have mathematical knowledge which is relevant in the current context, and (vi) that
the relevant mathematical knowledge concerns A’s belief that two and eleven makes
thirty, A can infer that B communicates that A’s belief that two and eleven makes
thirty is actually F.
Interpretation (c) seems to depend on (b). Notice that if (10B) is to be interpreted
as a suggestion that A needs more work on maths, the falsity of A’s belief that two
and eleven makes thirty needs to be assumed (acknowledged). If (10B) suggests
anything, it suggests a means to resolve what B perceives as a contradiction – i.e.
A’s F belief that what is F is T. Indeed, I suggest that it is the logically driven need
for the resolution of (perceived) contradiction – which is perceived in virtue of (iv),
(v) and (vi) – which explains why the falsity of p in (10B) can be inferred and thus
communicated.
Now, the use of if in the context of A’s utterance in (10) indicates that the truth
value of p is at stake here – it communicates that, contrary to what A suggests/
argues, the truth of the proposition communicated in (10A) should not be taken for
granted. Notice that, if in (10B) cannot be exchanged with given that, which would
indicate that that the truth of the proposition communicated in (10A) was taken for
granted. Incidentally, given that could only be used if followed by you believe. This
is because the addition of you believe would indicate that B is not committed to the
truth of the proposition communicated in (10A) – the use of if seems a more suc-
cinct way to achieve the same communicative goal in this example. Consider (7)
again, repeated below.
(7) If Rachel can drive a truck, then I am Mickey Mouse.
12
 More specifically, from the premises (i) and (ii), B concludes that (i + ii) A holds a false belief.
It is the conclusion (i + ii), which serves as a premise in the inference to (iii).
13
 
As discussed in Chap. 5, Noh’s metarepresentational MI analysis of (10) fails to acknowledge
that the faithfulness of the metarepresentational antecedent to what it metarepresents is not a rea-
son for concluding that A needs more work on maths. Indeed, it is the falsity of what A represented
in (10A), which is the reason. Thus, neither a metarepresentational MI analysis nor a descriptive
level MI analysis can be maintained. The relation between p and q in (10B) is much more
fine-grained.
6.2 
Basic and Extended Uses of Conditionals
168
Earlier, I suggested that (7) involves an invitation to perform MT, i.e. to infer from
the patent falsity of q that the speaker believes p is F. Now, the most probable occur-
rence of (7) is in the context of a response to a previous utterance, as in (19).
(19) A: Rachel says she can drive a truck.
B: If Rachel can drive a truck, then I am Mickey Mouse.
As was the case with (10B), so in (19B), the use of if signifies that B does not take
for granted the truth value of the proposition communicated in (19A). By represent-
ing a patently F proposition in q – i.e. a proposition whose truth value is manifest –
B is unambiguously inviting A to infer that B thinks p is F. Indeed, if (19B) is
preceded by B’s laughter in response toA’s utterance, or if B utters the if-clause with
the falling intonation (which indicates A’s disbelief in Rachel’s ability), there is
nothing in the context that prevents A from assuming that B thinks p is F. This
assumption of A is then confirmed by the utterance of the second clause. Now, MP
can also be performed in the case of (19B) – if you believe that Rachel can drive a
truck (p is T), you must believe that I am Mickey Mouse (q is T). However, because
the falsity of q is patent, the assumption that B is inviting the hearer to establish the
truth value of q with respect to p gives rise to a contradiction. This contradiction is
resolved when the hearer realises that the speaker’s communicative intention is for
A to infer the truth value of p with respect to the falsity of q.
Crucially, in order to know that the hearer is being invited to perform MT, the
hearer must consult his (‘encyclopaedic’) knowledge to establish that q is F. Thus,
the inference to the falsity of p must go through in the holistic system of thought.
Indeed, the inferring of the falsity of p via MT (rather than just by way of contradic-
tion resolution as in (10B) If two and eleven makes thirty, you need more work on
maths) is a result of a holistic interpretive process. Consider also (21) from Chap. 5,
repeated here as (20) and example (11) introduced earlier in this chapter.
(20) If you press the red button, the conveyor belt will stop.
(11) If you want to make your parents happy, quit smoking.
As argued in Chap. 5, (20) is a conditional instruction on how to stop the conveyor
belt. I suggested that, to count as an instruction, the speaker needs to be communi-
cating that there is a causal-consequential relation between the antecedent and the
consequent such that making the antecedent true is sufficient or necessary to make
the consequent true. Notice also that if (20) is to be understood as an instruction to
make q T, the context of (20) must exclude a situation where there is a power cut
(etc.) and the belt has stopped, as in such a situation there would be no point instruct-
ing the hearer on what to do to stop it. The (cognitive) context of (20) must be lim-
ited to the action that is supposed to be performed by the hearer. Thus, the contextual
limitation to the action performed by the hearer, and the assumption/knowledge of
whether there are other ways of making q true by the hearer than making p true,
determine whether the hearer will embark on just MP or both MP and DA
inferences.
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
169
Earlier in this chapter, I also argued that the antecedent of (11) does not represent
a condition on the consequent but a goal which is embedded in the propositional
attitude represented by want (suggesting that the truth of the embedded proposition
is desired by the speaker). Accordingly, (11) is used to suggest that the truth of the
proposition embedded in p (the truth which is desired by the hearer), can be accom-
plished by means of making q T. Notice that the truth of p cannot be debatable on
the assumption that the speaker utters (11) because she knows that p is T (p is the
topic). But how is this intended interpretation – that the truth of the proposition
embedded in p will follow from the truth of q – arrived at? The fact that it can be
communicated (and inferred) that the truth of the proposition embedded in p will
follow from the truth of q suggests that this inference is modelled by equivalence
(the inference is AC). Indeed, to perform AC, in the speaker’s (hearer’s) mind, the
proposition (about the state of affairs) that the hearer’s parents are unhappy (~H)
and the proposition (about the state of affairs) that the hearer smokes (S) must be
logically equivalent. Because these propositions are equivalent in the speaker’s
(hearer’s) mind, the only way to make (~H) false (i.e. to make (H) true) – which the
hearer wants – is to make (S) false. Thus, (i) the equivalence relation between (~H)
and (S) – which can only be held in holistic thought – and (ii) the assumption that
the hearer wants to make (~H) false (also held in holistic thought), allow to com-
municate (and infer) that the truth of (~S) will result in the truth of (H).
So far, I have argued that in its basic use – i.e. where it signifies a relation between
two propositions – if serves to indicate that p and q are relevant to each other so that
it will be possible to infer the truth value of one with respect to the other. I have
sought to show that the establishing of the truth value of one proposition with
respect to the other always goes through in the holistic system of thought.
6.2.2.2  
A Note on Directionality of Inference
There is one more comment that needs to be made with regards to the variation
found in the basic uses of if. Now, I have been arguing that if serves to indicate that
p and q are relevant to each other so that it will be possible to infer the truth value
of one, i.e. ANY one, with respect to the other.14
If I am right in arguing that, we
should be able to find cases where the truth values of both propositions are open and
thus mutually relative. However, we should also be able to find examples where the
truth value of q is taken for granted (and serves as a premise), and the truth value of
p is inferred on that basis. Conversely, we should also be able to find examples
where the truth value of p is taken for granted (and serves as a premise), and the
truth value of q is inferred on that basis. If true, this prediction would be in contrast
14
 To re-emphasise, this argument is not compatible with positing that if semantically encodes the
information/content that p and q are relevant to each other so that it will be possible to infer the
truth value of one with respect to the other. Apart from all the problems with linguistic semantics I
have discussed in earlier chapters, the function of such encoding would be as useful as the function
of the full stop in (12).
6.2 
Basic and Extended Uses of Conditionals
170
to Strawson (1986), who argues that, in ‘if p … q’, p and q are not asserted (see
footnote 8), and to Grice (1989), for whom it would not be rational to use a condi-
tional where, for example, there is no doubt about the truth of p.
My prediction, I argue, is borne out. Accordingly, in (19B) (If Rachel can drive
a truck, then I am Mickey Mouse), the truth value of p is established with respect to
the patent falsity of q; and in (10) (If two and eleven makes thirty, you need more
work on maths), the truth value of p is established with respect to the assumed truth
of q (on interpretation b). Conversely, in a context where (17) (If it’s a square, it has
four sides) is uttered as a judgemental response to the question ‘How many sides
does this square have?’, the truth value of q is established with respect to the
assumed truth of p. The same obtains for (21), which does not involve a judgemental
reaction.
(21) A: A ten pence coin fits through that slot.
B: If a ten pence coin fits through that slot, a five pence coin will
fit through that slot.
Let us assume that B knows that A has empirically confirmed that a ten pence coin
fits through the relevant slot. In this context, we can assume that A has truly com-
municated that a ten pence coin fits through that slot and that p in (21B) is non-­
debatably taken as T. Thus, the truth value of q can be established with respect to the
empirically confirmed (and contextually given) truth value of p via MP. Similarly,
in the case of example (11) from Chap. 5 (If two plus two equals four, then my client
is innocent), the truth value of q is established with respect to the patent truth of p.
However, in the context of (18) (I can’t exactly remember the shape of the figure
that John drew, but if it wasn’t a square, it was certainly a triangle), it is manifest
that the truth value of neither proposition is to be taken for granted, but because p
and q represent the only two options, their truth values, which are relative with
respect to one another, can be calculated as predicted by equivalence. Incidentally,
both truth values are open in (17) (If it’s a square, it has four sides) if it is said of an
unseen geometric figure (i.e. a figure hidden in a box). However, because of the
hearer’s knowledge that other figures can have four sides, the calculation of relative
truth values proceeds as predicted by MI.
6.2.3  Extended Uses
In extended use, if is used to communicate that there is some relation between a
proposition p, and the utterance of “q”. Consider (38) from Chap. 5, repeated here
as (22).
(22) If you’re thirsty, there’s beer in the fridge.
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
171
An extended use analysis of (22) is simpler and less problematic than Noh’s meta-
representational analysis (discussed in Chap. 5). On an extended use analysis, the
relation of relevance holds between the proposition/thought communicated by p and
the uttering of “q” (or the speech act of informing the hearer that there is beer in the
fridge). This correctly predicts that p is used to communicate a reason for the utter-
ing of “q” – p explains why the speaker is bothering to utter “q”, without undermin-
ing the theoretical significance of the notion of metarepresentation (as was the case
with Noh’s account). Notice that the extended use analysis explains why there is no
truth-functional relation involved here, i.e. why the truth of p is independent of the
truth of q and vice versa. Even though a conditional form is used, there can be no
truth-functional relation here because utterances (and speech acts) are not proposi-
tional objects. It is thus the lack of truth-functional relation between p and q – which
is due to the relation holding between a proposition and an utterance (speech act) –
which makes extended uses different from basic uses.15
Consider also (23).
(23) If you’re thinking of ordering drinks, I’ve already ordered them.
Similarly to (22), in (23), p is used to communicate the reason for uttering “q” (or
the speech act of informing the hearer that the speaker has already ordered drinks).
The reason why the speaker is informing the hearer that the speaker has already
ordered drinks is that the speaker thinks the hearer may be thinking of ordering
drinks, and thus the uttering of “q” will be relevant, as it will save the hearer an
unnecessary trip to the bar. As in (22), so here, the truth value of p is independent of
the truth value of q, and vice versa, because the relation of relevance holds between
a proposition and an utterance (speech act). In the remainder of this section, I defend
the extended use analysis presented here against Sweetser’s sufficient conditionality
speech-act analysis.
6.2.3.1  
Sweetser’s Speech-Act Analysis Versus Extended Use Analysis
Consider (24), taken from Sweetser (1990).
(24) There are biscuits on the sideboard if you want them.
According to Sweetser (1990: 119–122), (24) lends itself to the sufficient condition-
ality analysis at the level of a speech act. Sweetser (ibid.) argues that in the speech
act domain, the speech act is conditional upon what is represented in the antecedent.
Thus, in (24) the offer of biscuits is conditional upon its potential acceptability to
15
 If there is conditionality here, it is the relevance of the speaker’s utterance of “q” which seems to
be conditional on p. But this conditionality is not modelled by MI as it concerns the relation
between a propositional object and a non-propositional object (i.e. an utterance). This view is bet-
ter than Noh’s (2000) metarepresentational proposal, which undermines the theoretical signifi-
cance of the notion of metarepresentation (as argued in Sect. 5.3.2.5).
6.2 
Basic and Extended Uses of Conditionals
172
the hearer; in Sweetser’s terms, a conditional speech-act structure for utterances like
(24) is ‘I hereby offer X, if X is a felicitous offer’. The problem with this analysis is
discernible in the following quote from Sweetser:
The major felicity condition for an offer is (as mentioned above) that the speaker assumes
the hearer to want the thing offered. An offer is therefore infelicitous (or even irrelevant, in
Gricean terms) if it fails in fact to respond to a desire or need on the part of the addressee.
(Sweetser 1990: 122).
Whereas I agree with the first part of the above quote – that the speaker’s assump-
tion of the hearer’s needs is a felicity condition (the weaker characterisation), I
disagree with the second one – that the assumption’s compatibility with the actual
need of the hearer is a felicity condition (the stronger characterisation).
Given the stronger characterisation of the felicity condition in the second part of
the quote, the offer in (24) must be infelicitous if the hearer does not actually want
the biscuits, i.e. if the speaker of (24) has misinterpreted the hearer’s needs. However,
the problem with the predictions that Sweetser’s analysis of (24) makes is that the
offer in (24) simply has been made – and the relevance of “q” to p has been com-
municated – regardless of whether the hearer does or does not actually want the
biscuits.16
In other words, the performance of the speech act simply is not condi-
tional upon the truth of p (its faithfulness to the actual needs of the hearer), but on
the speaker’s assumption that the hearer may want the biscuits (the weaker
characterisation).
The extended use analysis offers a simpler solution to (24). Like in (22), so in
(24), p communicates the speaker’s reason for uttering “q” (or for the speech act of
informing the hearer that there are biscuits on the sideboard). There is no truth-­
functional relation between there being biscuits on the sideboard and the hearer
wanting them (the biscuits are there regardless of whether the hearer wants them or
not), but the speaker finds the presence of the biscuits potentially relevant to the
hearer. Indeed, the lack of correlation between the speaker’s assumptions about the
hearer’s needs and the hearer’s actual needs does not invalidate the relevance of “q”
to p. Consider now (25).
(25) If (as we both know) you were at the party, how’s Harry these days?
Sweetser (1990: 131) argues that because the speech-act world is built up by refer-
ences to it, it is in constant flux. Since it is constantly changing, it is, in Sweetser’s
words, ‘intangible’. So just like the epistemic world, the speech-act world is not
subject to direct examination. Given that, Sweetser (ibid.) suggests that a condi-
tional presentation of a speech act allows the speaker to indicate how the speech act
16
 Austin (1975) makes a distinction between locutionary, illocutionary and perlocutionary forces
of a speech act. A locutionary act is the act of uttering something. An illocutionary act is the act of
signalling the particular speech act (e.g. a question, order, offer, etc.) intended by the speaker. A
perlocutionary act has to do with an effect the performance of the speech act has on the hearer. In
talking about felicity conditions, Sweetser (e.g. 1990: 118) is interested in the illocutionary force
of the speech act.
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
173
‘fits into the structure of the jointly constructed conversational world’. Thus, so the
argument goes, in (25) the speaker’s enquiry about Harry is relevant because it fits
to the constructed discourse world. Sweetser argues that such display of conditional
relevance gives the question a context. I agree with that. However, in contrast to the
weaker characterisation of the felicity condition, and consistently with the stronger
characterisation, Sweetser (ibid.) argues that the enquiry is relevant on condition
that the hearer has been to the party.
The problem with Sweetser’s analysis is clearly discernible if we omit the clause
in brackets (as we both know). Sweetser’s analysis misses the crucial point that in
(25) the relevance of the speaker asking the question (“q”) is not conditional on the
truth of p but on the speaker’s assumption that the hearer may have been to the party.
The use of conditional indicates that the question about Harry’s well-being is not ad
hoc but motivated by the speaker’s assumption that the hearer may know how Harry
is because the speaker may have been to the party. The extended use analysis cor-
rectly predicts that even if it turns out that the speaker has not actually been to the
party and is not in position to answer the question, the question has been asked (the
speech act has been performed) and the motivation for (relevance of) asking the
question (performing the speech act) has been represented. Consider also the fol-
lowing examples (taken from Sweetser 1990: 118).
(26) If I may say so, that’s a crazy idea.
(27) If it’s not rude to ask, what made you decide to leave IBM?
As discussed earlier, for Sweetser (1990: 118) the performance of the speech acts
(“q”) in (26) and (27) is conditional upon the fulfilment of p. Sweetser rightly argues
that even though (26) and (27) ‘purport’ to state an opinion or ask a question (respec-
tively) conditionally on the hearer’s permission, such politeness conditions do not
actually prevent the performance of the speech act. Nevertheless, in consistence
with the stronger characterisation of the felicity condition, Sweetser (ibid.) argues
that in these examples ‘the statement is made and the question is asked – but not
quite fully’ (my italics) presumably because such politeness conditionals ‘somehow
do allow the hearer a little more room to maneuver’. But if, as Sweetser argues, the
speech acts in (26) and (27) are ‘not quite fully’ performed, then it is not clear
whether they are actually performed or not.
I suggest that the performance of speech acts in (26) and (27) is not conditional
upon the hearer’s permission – in fact, the speech acts have been performed regard-
less of whether the hearer likes it or not. These uses, however, are indicative of the
relation between the performed speech acts and the speaker’s contextual assump-
tions about social inappropriateness of stating the opinion in (26) and asking the
question in (27). In (26) and (27), like in (24) and (25), the speaker’s contextual
assumptions are represented in the if-clause and therefore the speaker is communi-
cating that there is a relevance relation between the represented contextual assump-
tions and the speech act in “q”. In (26) and (27), the relevance is such that the
speaker is performing the speech act not because of the contextual assumptions (as
in (24) and (25)) but despite the contextual assumptions that it may be ­inappropriate.
6.2 
Basic and Extended Uses of Conditionals
174
By social convention, the ‘display’ of the speaker’s awareness of such potential
inappropriateness makes the speech act less inappropriate.
6.2.4  
Interim Conclusion: Objectively Messy, Subjectively
Predictable
In Chap. 5 and earlier in this chapter, we saw that thus far the biconditional interpre-
tation of conditionals has not been adequately explained. The biconditional inter-
pretation cannot be explained by reference to scales because equivalence is not
lexicalised. A further problem for Levinson’s [(p≡q)├ (p⊃q)] scale is that the infor-
mativeness principle it invokes is trivial. A problem with Smith and Smith’s (1988)
relevance theoretic account is that p is relevant not only on the strong interpretation,
but also on other interpretations.
Another problem with the biconditional interpretation is that it is not limited to
any homogenous group of uses – conditional threats, promises, injunctions and uni-
versal conditionals can all be interpreted biconditionally or materially. It has proven
impossible to explain and predict the conditions under which these two interpreta-
tions arise in terms of some necessary (objective) principles. I have argued that the
distinction between the biconditional and material interpretations of conditionals
can be explained and predicted from a holistic/individualistic perspective. As shown
in Sect. 6.1.2, it is only when we take into account the cognitive contexts of particu-
lar interlocutors in particular conversational situations, that we are able to pin down
the cognitive contextual (individualistic) conditions under which the biconditional
and material interpretation arises.
My point is not that meaning cannot be explained in objective terms. It can – for
example, the difference between basic and extended uses of conditionals can be
reliably distinguished by whether the relation signified by if holds between two
propositional objects or not. Of course, establishing whether the relation holds
between two propositional objects or not requires pragmatic (holistic) inference, but
an inference about particular interlocutors (personal common ground) does not play
a crucial role in establishing that. Rather, my point is that sometimes – as with
biconditional and material interpretations of conditionals – even though objectively
messy, i.e. not governed by any necessary principle, the use is subjectively
predictable.
6.3  
Implications for the Explicit-Implicit Distinction
In Sect. 5.3.2, I argued that contrary to claims made in Carston (2002: 99–100),
Relevance Theory’s re-analysis of Grice’s explicit-implicit distinction does not
resolve the problem of pragmatic intrusion into encoded semantics. RT’s problem is
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
175
that their ‘solution’ to Grice’s circle is to argue that linguistic semantics does not
have truth-theoretic properties, but RT’s definition of the explicit – and hence of the
explicit-implicit distinction – depends on the argument that linguistic semantics has
truth-theoretic properties. This problem, which I referred to as Relevance Theory’s
circle, also emerges in RT’s claims about the acquisition of linguistic semantics, the
nature of linguistic semantics, and, more specifically, in RT’s (Noh 2000, Smith and
Smith 1988) account of the encoded semantics of if.
RT’s (and Grice’s) problems with formalising the explicit-implicit distinction
raise the question of whether this distinction can actually be defined in formal terms.
In the next section, I discuss Gibbs’ (2002) proposal that there do not seem to be
‘hard and fast’ rules which distinguish explicit communication from implicit
communication.
6.3.1  
Gibbs on the Explicit-Implicit Distinction
Gibbs (2002) argues that there is no psycholinguistic evidence for the existence of
‘some canonical, non-pragmatic meaning that is automatically analysed at both the
word and sentence level’. In other words, Gibbs maintains that there is no evidence
for the existence of linguistic semantics or lexical concepts, respectively.
Nevertheless, Gibbs (ibid.) argues that empirical evidence strongly suggests that
speakers do differentiate between what is explicitly and implicitly communicated.
Like RT, Gibbs (ibid.) rejects Grice’s explicit-implicit distinction in terms of a
distinction between semantics and pragmatics. However, because Gibbs rejects the
notion of linguistic semantics (i.e. ‘non-pragmatic content which is automatically
analysed at both sentence and word level’), Gibbs cannot appeal to RT’s explicit-­
implicit distinction. Put simply, explicature cannot be defined in terms of a logical
development of what is linguistically encoded because, according to Gibbs, there is
no linguistic encoding. So how does the explicit-implicit distinction arise?
Gibbs (2002: 476–477) discusses two kinds of pragmatic information/knowl-
edge which are activated during language comprehension. Primary pragmatic
knowledge refers to deeply held background knowledge/beliefs, whereas second-
ary pragmatic knowledge refers to local information which is available in the
communicative context. Gibbs (ibid.) tentatively suggests that primary pragmatic
knowledge is more involved in the derivation of what is explicitly communicated,
whereas secondary, i.e. local, pragmatic knowledge is more involved in the deriva-
tion of what is implicated. Consider the following example.
(28) The cat is on the mat.
Gibbs (2002: 477, drawing on Searle 1978) suggests that the primary pragmatic
knowledge involved in the derivation of what is explicitly communicated by (28)
consists in assumptions such as that ‘the cat chose for some reason to sit on the mat,
and that the cat and mat are on the ground operating under the constraints of
6.3 
Implications for the Explicit-Implicit Distinction
176
physical laws like gravity and are not floating in space in such a way that the cat is
on the mat by virtue of touching the underneath part of the mat as in The fly is on the
ceiling’. Secondary pragmatic knowledge involved in the derivation of what is
implicated (i.e. that the addressee should let the cat outside) consists in recognising
features of the local context such as the manifestly shared (between the speaker and
the hearer) assumption that when the cat sits on the mat, it typically wants to go
outside.
The first problem with this distinction is, as observed by Gibbs (ibid.) himself,
that it is ‘difficult, if not impossible’ to decide which pragmatic knowledge is pri-
mary and which secondary. Gibbs’ suggestion (drawn from Recanati 1993) is that
perhaps primary pragmatic knowledge is more salient and therefore accessed more
quickly than the local secondary pragmatic knowledge. However, this description
seems circular.
First of all, if we consider Gibbs’ proposal in terms of the interaction between
Hintzman’s (1986) primary memory (which records current experiences) and sec-
ondary memory (which stores largely dormant memory traces), it would seem that
Gibbs’ distinction does not take into account the dynamic and interactional nature
of the relation between the two memory systems. Gibbs’ proposal presupposes that
parts of the primary pragmatic knowledge (i.e. the memory traces stored in long
term memory) are/become salient irrespective of the cogniser’s current (i.e. local)
experience. That, however, cannot be true for the following reason.
Let us assume that the salient part of primary pragmatic knowledge relevant to
the interpretation of (28) is, as proposed by Gibbs, that ‘the cat chose for some rea-
son to sit on the mat’, etc. The question that needs to be asked is what is it that
makes this and no other part of primary pragmatic knowledge (e.g. that fish are
animals) salient. The answer is that particular parts of primary pragmatic knowl-
edge are salient in the context of particular utterances. Thus, the salient parts of
primary pragmatic knowledge predicted by Gibbs for (28) are salient in response to
hearing the utterance of (28). Even if one wished to argue that it is only morpho-­
phonetic properties of the utterance of (28) that are relevant to the salience of parts
of primary pragmatic knowledge, morpho-phonetic properties are nevertheless part
of the current/local experience. This means that the salience of relevant parts of
primary pragmatic knowledge does depend on features of the current/local experi-
ence. I suggest that Hintzman’s dynamic model of the interaction between records
of current experience and old memory traces is more appropriate.
Another, related problem is that if one assumes that local pragmatic knowledge
is involved in the derivation of what is implicated, then one has to say that, for
example, the information that the speaker of (28) is communicating a thought about
the cat and the mat which are in the perceptual (visual) presence of the interlocutors
is an implicature. This is because such information is derivable from the current/
local context. The problem is that the analysis of so-called reference assignment in
terms of implicature is intuitively incorrect (as captured by RT).
As mentioned, Gibbs’ suggestion regarding the relevance of the primary versus
secondary knowledge in the derivation of explicatures and implicatures is only ten-
tative, but I suggest it needs to be rejected. Nevertheless, Gibbs’ experimental work
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
177
clearly indicates that there is some intuitively felt distinction between explicatures
and implicatures and that hearers use explicatures in the derivation of implicatures.
The first reported experiment (Gibbs 2002; Hamblin and Gibbs 2003) measured
the comprehension time of the same utterance which was used in two different con-
texts to communicate different kinds of information. The utterances in contexts are
given in (29) and (30) below.
(29) Ted and Michele ran into each other at the mall.
Ted asked Michele what she had been doing lately.
Michele said that she had been busy car shopping.
Looking for ideas, Michele decided to consult Ted.
Michele asked Ted about his own car.
Ted mentioned: “I drive a sports utility vehicle”.
(30) Ted and Michele are planning a trip to Lake Tahoe.
Michele had heard that there was a terrible storm there.
She wondered if it was going to be safe for them to go.
Michele was concerned about the vehicle they would drive.
She asked Ted if he thought they would be okay.
Ted replied: “I drive a sports utility vehicle”.
In (29) there is no further information that Ted wants Michelle to access beyond that
(a) he drives a particular kind of car. In (30), however, Ted informs Michelle that (a)
he drives a particular kind of car, but he also communicates that (b) his car is safer
to drive in a storm. Let us assume, after Gibbs (2002) and Hamblin and Gibbs
(2003), that (a) in (29) and (30) is explicitly communicated by Ted’s utterances and
that (b) in (30) is implicitly communicated. The results of Hamblin and Gibbs’
(2003) reaction time experiment show that deriving implicatures (measured by the
comprehension time of the last line in (30)) increases the processing effort beyond
that which is necessary to comprehend what speakers explicitly communicate (mea-
sured by the comprehension time of the last line in (29)). Whereas subjects on aver-
age took 1604  ms to derive the explicature, they took 1751  ms to derive the
implicature. Hamblin and Gibbs (2003) argue that these results are consistent with
the assumption that people analyse what is explicated as part of determining what is
implicated.17
17
 It must be pointed out that Gibbs (2002) and Hamblin and Gibbs (2003) suggest that these find-
ings are also compatible with the assumption that people access primary pragmatic knowledge
sooner than they do secondary pragmatic knowledge. Notice, however, that this suggestion is made
without having defined the primary-secondary knowledge distinction properly (as discussed ear-
lier). Given this and other problems with the primary-secondary knowledge distinction discussed
above, I reject this particular suggestion. I agree, however, that the results clearly indicate that
reaction times are shorter for comprehending information (a) in (29) and longer for comprehending
information (b) in (30); that for this reason we can take information (a) in (29) as explicitly com-
municated and information (b) in (30) an implicitly communicated; and that the findings are com-
patible with the suggestion that deriving an implicature is preceded by deriving an explicature.
6.3 
Implications for the Explicit-Implicit Distinction
178
The second experiment (Gibbs 2002; Hamblin and Gibbs 2003) measured the
comprehension time of two different utterances which communicate the same infor-
mation – one does so explicitly and the other implicitly. Consider (31) below.
(31) Bill is a new tenant in an apartment building.
His neighbor Jack has lived there for 4 years.
Bill was concerned that the building might be too loud.
Bill decided to ask a neighbor about it.
Bill asked Jack since he was the only neighbor Bill had met.
Jack replied,
a) “This is a very noisy building.”
b) “I usually sleep with earplugs.”
The assumption is that whereas (a) communicates the information that the building
is very noisy explicitly, (b) does so implicitly. If that is the case, people should take
more time to comprehend (b) than they do to comprehend (a). The findings were
compatible with the findings of the pervious experiment: on average, subjects took
1511 ms to comprehend explicatures and 1661 ms to comprehend implicatures.
According to Gibbs (2002), the challenge for research into the explicit-implicit
distinction is to specify the conditions under which hearers’ analyses of what speak-
ers communicate demand more cognitive effort. Gibbs’ (ibid.) suggestion is that
what facilitates comprehension is ‘conventionality’.18
On the assumption that a
given usage is conventional if it is frequent and thus widely accepted in a given
speech community, it follows from Gibbs’ suggestion that if a non-literal use (e.g.
metaphorical use, irony or indirect speech act use) is the conventional use of an
expression which can also be used in a literal way, the non-literal interpretation will
be accessed faster than the literal one.19
This assumption receives support from experimental work. Thus, Gibbs (2002:
459–460) reports that people can comprehend an ironic use of ‘You’re a fine friend’
to mean that someone is a bad friend ‘as quickly as, sometimes even more quickly,
than literal uses of the same expression in different contexts, or equivalent non-­
figurative expressions’. Similarly, Gibbs (2002: 472) reports that people take less
time to comprehend an indirect request communicated by Can’t you be friendly?
(i.e. the request to be friendly) than they do to comprehend its literal counterpart
(i.e. the question of whether the hearer is unable to be friendly).
The question that I am interested in is whether the faster derivation of non-literal
interpretations is wholly down to conventionality or whether conventionality is only
partially responsible for this phenomenon. An answer to this question is suggested
18
 ‘Conventional’ here means ‘licensed by general use’.
19
 Gibbs (2002) argues that the distinction between literal (non-figurative) and non-literal (figura-
tive) uses is questionable, if only in the light of evidence that much of what may be termed ‘literal’
has roots in figurative thought and language. I am concerned with the literal versus non-literal
distinction insofar as it illustrates the distinction between conventional and non-conventional uses.
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
179
by Gibbs’ (2002: 463, 480) observation that it is not only conventionalised non-­
literal interpretations which are accessed more quickly than their literal counter-
parts, but also novel forms (e.g. novel metaphors, ironies or sarcastic indirect
requests). If that is the case, there must be something in addition to pure convention-
ality which facilitates their faster comprehension. Indeed, Gibbs (2002: 462) argues
that people take less time to analyse ironies (e.g. You’re a fine friend) if the context
is right, i.e. if ‘the context itself sets up an ironic situation’. Gibbs (2002: 480) goes
on to suggest that ‘there may not be a hard-and-fast rule that determines which kind
of irony is understood as an explicature, and which as an implicature’. I suggest that
this hypothesis should be extended beyond the interpretation of ironies – perhaps
there are no hard-and-fast (i.e. formal) rules about what is understood as an explica-
ture and what as an implicature; perhaps it is all context-dependent.
In the next section, I explore this hypothesis and suggest that what counts as
explicitly communicated and what counts as implicitly communicated is not for-
mally, but contextually determined. I suggest that it is plausible to approach the
explicit-implicit distinction from a ‘local’ perspective, i.e. from the perspective of
what happens between particular interlocutors in particular conversational contexts.
On the ‘local’ account, the explicit-implicit distinction is an intuitive epiphenome-
non of the amount of processing effort. I argue that this account is compatible with
the Representational Hypothesis (especially, Burton-Roberts 2013) and supported
by Horton and Gerrig’s (2005) account of conversational common ground.
6.3.2  
Towards a Localist Account of the Explicit-Implicit
Distinction
As discussed in Sect. 6.1.1, Horton and Gerrig (2005) argue that particular conver-
sational contexts, which include particular interlocutors, place immediate con-
straints on language production and comprehension. I argue that once it is
acknowledged that interlocutor-specific information constitutes part of immediate
(i.e. not merely ‘post-decoding) contextual constraints on language processing, it
seems plausible to approach the intuited explicit-implicit distinction from the
localist perspective, i.e. from the perspective of particular conversations in par-
ticular contexts between particular interlocutors.
On the localist approach to the explicit-implicit distinction, the role of Horton
and Gerrig’s (2005) commonality assessment is essential. Consider (2) again.
(2) If you pass the exam, I’ll take you to a restaurant.
In Sect. 6.1.2, I argued that, depending on the result of personal commonality
assessment, (2) may give rise to (and be intended to give rise to) the material inter-
pretation (the over-indulgent grandma scenario) or the biconditional interpretation
(the strict parent scenario). Thus, the use of (2) to communicate that q iff p depends
6.3 
Implications for the Explicit-Implicit Distinction
180
on the strict parent’s assumption that the form of (2) is sufficient to communicate
that q iff p to this particular hearer – the strict parent must have assumed, as a result
of the personal commonality assessment, that the hearer is likely to effortlessly infer
what the speaker intends to communicate. Similarly, the common ground assump-
tions in the over-indulgent grandma scenario suggest to the grandma that the form
in (2) is not likely to give rise to the iff interpretation in the mind of this particular
interlocutor (her grandson). Likewise in the grandson’s mind, the common ground
assumptions will suggest that the grandma is merely communicating that from the
truth of p the truth of q will follow.20
In other words, the material and biconditional
interpretations of (2) rely on the assumption of tacit agreement – which arises due
to the assumption of common ground – between the speaker and the hearer as to
what interpretation the use of if may give rise to.
Presumably, if the assumption of tacit agreement is the product of the personal
commonality assessment, we are dealing with communicative (representational)
conventions used by a small community of speakers (e.g. members of a family). If
the assumption of tacit agreement is (at least partially) the product of the communal
commonality assessment we are dealing with conventions used by a larger commu-
nity of speakers. Let me explain this with (28), repeated below.
(28) The cat is on the mat.
I suggest that (28) can, in the right circumstances, be used and be understood as
used to explicitly communicate that the speaker wants the hearer to let the cat out.
The speaker A of (28) may choose this utterance to explicitly communicate that she
wants the hearer B to let the cat out because the product of the personal commonal-
ity assessment dictates to her that this form is sufficient for this particular interlocu-
tor, i.e. for B, to effortlessly infer that A wants B to let the cat out. Such personal
commonality assessment must be derived on the basis of memory records of the
uses of the form in (28) to communicate this particular request. It seems plausible
to assume that in order for the form in (28) to explicitly communicate the relevant
request, it must be initially used to implicitly communicate it. With time and fre-
quent usage the route from the utterance of (28) to the request is short-cut – it
becomes a representational convention for these particular interlocutors, A and
B. The successful use of (28) to explicitly communicate the request relies on the
tacit assumption that A and B share a particular convention.
Let us assume now that there is another interlocutor C for whom the commonal-
ity assessment does not yield the assumption of tacit agreement to use this particular
convention – A has no memories of using (28) to communicate the relevant request
to C and no memories which would make A infer that C knows that A and B share
such a convention. Presumably, if A wanted to communicate to C that A wants C to
let the cat out, the use of (28) would not communicate it explicitly. This is not to say
20
 
As discussed in Sect. 6.1.2, the same common ground assumptions will dictate to the grandma
that in order to communicate that q iff p to this particular interlocutor, she needs to put the stress
on if.
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
181
that C would be unable to infer the intention to (implicitly) communicate the request.
If A wanted to explicitly communicate the request to C, the communal commonality
assessment would probably dictate to A to use something like ‘Could you please let
the cat out?’.
The localist approach to the explicit-implicit distinction seems consistent with
work in the Representational Hypothesis.As discussed in Chap. 3, one of the central
arguments of the Representational Hypothesis (e.g. Burton-Roberts 2007, 2013) is
that meaning is not a property of anything, but a cognitive relation, for someone,
between X (anything) and what has semantic contentY (thought and only thought).
Burton-Roberts (ibid.) argues that the RH’s distinction between meaning and
semantics is strengthened by the observation that thoughts themselves can be mean-
ingful but not simply in virtue of having semantic content. Thoughts – simply in
virtue of being thoughts – are not signs (have no significance), but a thought (T1)
can be significant (“have”meaning)21
to a cogniser if it leads the cogniser to have
another thought (T2). According to Burton-Roberts (ibid.), in a person’s mental
world, there are semiotic, inferential relations between thoughts and this semiotic
fact, about relations between thoughts in an individual’s mental world, is separate
from facts about semantic content of thoughts. Burton-Roberts illustrates this point
with the following example. Let us imagine that Anna sees a big pile of clean wash-
ing in the kitchen. That phenomenon (P) leads Anna to have thought T1:
T1: [the washing has been done]
The pile of clean washing (P) is a sign (to Anna). It has no semantics but its signifi-
cance lies in its relation (for Anna) to T1 (it communicates T1 to Anna). Now, T1
has semantic content (conventionally represented in the square brackets). But, sepa-
rate from its semantic content, Anna’s having T1 might lead her to have another
thought, T2.
T2: [I don’t need to do any washing right now] (and T2 → T3, and so on)
The relation between T1 and T2 is the meaning “of ” thought T1 (what T1 commu-
nicates to Anna). For Anna, then, [T1] means that [T2]. But the relation [T1 → T2],
and T2 itself, are clearly distinct from T1’s semantic content.
This argument of Burton-Roberts also applies to ostensive communication.
Consider (32).
(32) There’s a snail in the conservatory.
In line with what I have argued for (28) (The cat is on the mat), I argue that the utter-
ance of (32) may be taken as explicitly or implicitly communicating the thought that
21
 
As in Chap. 3, I am using inverted commas here to emphasise that in the RH meaning is not
equivalent to the encoding of semantic properties. In the RH, a sign can “have” meaning, or mean-
ing can be said to be “of” a sign, insofar as it leads a cogniser to have a thought.
6.3 
Implications for the Explicit-Implicit Distinction
182
the speaker wants the hearer to get the snail out. Whether this thought is taken as
being explicitly or implicitly communicated crucially depends on the result of com-
monality assessment. I will first look at the situation in which this thought may be
taken as implicitly communicated.
Let us assume that (32) is uttered by Shirley to Chris and that Chris is not aware
that Shirley considers snails disgusting to the extent that she cannot get them out
herself. As a result of the process of echo retrieval (including commonality assess-
ment) the utterance of (32) by Shirley gives rise to T1 (conventionally represented
in the square brackets) in Chris’s mind:
T1: [there’s a snail in the conservatory]
As the pile of clean washing was a sign to Anna in the earlier example, so the utter-
ance of (32) is a sign to Chris. This sign has no semantic content (it is an acoustic
phenomenon), but its significance lies in its relation (for Chris) to T1 – the utterance
of (32) communicates T1 to Chris. Separate from its semantic content, Chris’ hav-
ing T1 might lead him (via the echo retrieval process) to have another thought, T2.
T2: [Shirley wants me to get the snail out] (and T2 → T3, and so on)
As before, the relation between T1 and T2 is the significance of thought T1 (what
T1 communicates to Chris). For Chris, [T1] means that [T2], but the relation
[T1 → T2], and T2 itself, are distinct from T1’s semantic content.22
I argue that, in ostensive communication, Burton-Roberts’ T1 constitutes the
explicitly communicated content, and that Burton-Roberts’ T2 constitutes the
implicitly communicated content. I shall refer to the pragmatic inferential process
which gives rise to T1 as the primary inferential process (or inference), and to the
pragmatic inferential process which gives rise to T2 as the secondary inferential
process (or inference). Figure 6.1 is a rough sketch of the primary and secondary
inferential processes.
On the account I am proposing, T1 is the conclusion of the primary inferential
process. The mechanics of this inferential process is to be operationalised in terms
of Hintzman’s (1986) information retrieval process (Chap. 3). Accordingly,
Hintzman’s probe – i.e. a mental representation of a stimulus, e.g. an utterance, in a
particular context – serves as a premise in an online derivation of the conclusion T1
(Hintzman’s echo). T1, which is retrieved in the primary inferential process, is taken
by the hearer to be explicitly communicated. Thus, it is T1 to which semantic com-
mitments are (assumed by the hearer to be) tied.
I argue that the locus of explicit meaning is the (primary) semiotic relation
between an utterance (in context) and a thought this utterance gives rise to (T1).
Because (cognitive) context places immediate constraints on utterance interpreta-
22
 In this respect, consider Urquiza’s (2014) relevance-theoretic proposal (Chap. 4), which does not
make this necessary distinction between meaning and semantics. Also relevant here is Evans’
(2009) theory.
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
183
tion, what is explicitly communicated by an uttered word is localist, i.e. it varies
across pairs of interlocutors and communicative situations. In the secondary infer-
ential process, T1 serves as a premise on the basis of which the conclusion – i.e.
T2 – is derived. T2, like T1, is derived via Hintzman’s information retrieval pro-
cess.23
T2, which is retrieved in the secondary inferential process, is taken by the
hearer to be implicitly communicated (if assumed to have been intended). Thus, I
argue that the locus of implicit meaning is the (secondary) semiotic relation between
(T1) and another thought (T2).
Coming back to the utterance of (32) by Shirley to Chris, the thought that Shirley
wants Chris to get the snail out arises via the secondary inferential process as T2.
However, we can imagine a second scenario in which (32) is uttered by Shirley to
Indu. Unlike Chris, Indu is well aware of the fact that Shirley considers snails dis-
gusting to the extent that she cannot get them out herself. As a result of the process
of echo retrieval, including commonality assessment, the utterance of (32) by
Shirley gives rise to T1 in Indu’s mind:
T1: [there’s a snail in the conservatory and Shirley wants me to get it out of
the conservatory]
In Indu’s mind, T1 arises via the primary inferential process. The difference between
Chris’ and Indu’s interpretations of (32) amounts to a difference in the processing
effort required to infer a thought upon which Chris and Indu are likely to act in a
way wished-for by Shirley (i.e. get the snail out).
Similarly, I argue that the utterance of (2) (If you pass the exam, I’ll take you to
a restaurant) can give rise to the biconditional interpretation (which involves the
~(~p & q) constraint and the ~(p & ~q) constraint) via the primary inferential pro-
cess – and thus be taken as explicitly communicated – in the strict parent scenario,
23
 My proposal is that both primary and secondary inferential processes can be cashed out in terms
of Hintzman’s (1986) multiple-trace theory of memory – the two processes differ in terms of what
constitutes the premise in an inference. This seems compatible with Gibbs (2002: 477).
Fig. 6.1  Primary and
secondary inferential
processes in ostensive
communication
6.3 
Implications for the Explicit-Implicit Distinction
184
but not in the over-indulgent grandma scenario. Now, my analysis of the bicondi-
tionalinterpretationasexplicitlycommunicated(whenitisexplicitly­communicated)
differs from standard RT’s analysis of this interpretation as an explicature in the
following way. In RT, the biconditional interpretation arises as an explicature
because it entails the purportedly encoded MI – for RT, the biconditional interpreta-
tion is secondary with respect to the deterministic decoding of MI (which is the
necessary step in the interpretation of (2)). On my account, when the biconditional
interpretation is explicit, it is explicit because the context allows an effortless deri-
vation of it. So, in the strict parent scenario, the biconditional interpretation does not
arise as a result of the strengthening of MI to equivalence, but is derived directly
(i.e. without the mediation of MI) from the utterance in an adequate (cognitive)
context.
As for the utterance of (4) (If you don’t pass the exam, I’ll take your new scooter
back to the shop), any of the two interpretations which are possible for this example,
namely the biconditional (which involves the ~(~p & q) constraint and the ~(p &
~q) constraint) and the better person possibility (which involves the ~(~p & q) con-
straint only) can be explicitly communicated if the context is right. As above, the
strict parent context and the over-indulgent grandma context would allow an effort-
less derivation of the respective interpretations.
Now, the biggest contrast between RT’s proposal and mine concerns the role of
context in the determination of the explicit-implicit distinction. In RT, even though
explicit does not equal encoded, explicit is dependent on what is encoded. As dis-
cussed in Sect. 5.3.2.2, in RT, explicature entails the purportedly encoded linguistic
semantics, and any communicated assumption which is not an explicature, i.e.
which does not entail the encoded semantics, is an implicature. In RT, thus, one does
not need to look to context to determine what is explicitly and what is implicitly
communicated; whether a proposition is explicitly – or therefore implicitly – com-
municated depends on whether that proposition entails what is encoded. On my
account, however, whether something is explicitly or implicitly communicated is
contextually determined and depends, in each particular case, on particular holistic
states of mind.
Incidentally, the fact that the threat in (4) cannot receive the material interpreta-
tion (as it wouldn’t be able to function as an inducement – see the discussion in Sect.
5.3.3) indicates that the biconditional interpretation of (4) cannot possibly depend
on MI plus context (contrary to what Noh would argue). Relatedly, whereas Noh
could argue that the biconditional interpretation of promises arises as an explicature
(because p≡q entails p⊃q), the biconditional interpretation of threats couldn't be so
analysed (because conditional threats cannot be material). This further supports my
argument that the biconditional and the better person possibility interpretations of
conditional inducements can arise as a primary inferences.
I argue that the explicit-implicit distinction cannot be formalised because it is a
psycho-processing distinction which is an intuitive epiphenomenon of the amount
of cognitive effort undertaken (and intended to be undertaken) by the hearer in order
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
185
to arrive at a given interpretation. Thus, less cognitive effort correlates with the
intuition of explicitness and more cognitive effort correlates with the intuition of
implicitness (as suggested by Gibbs 2002).
Now, it has already been suggested by Elsheikh (2010, 2011), who works within
the Representational Hypothesis, that semiotic relations among thoughts (as pro-
posed by Burton-Roberts) may be responsible for generating the inferences which
are traditionally referred to as implicatures. Elsheikh illustrates this point with the
following exchange.
(33) A: Are you bringing any drinks to the party.
B: Well, I have invited my father.
Let us assume that the cognitive context of the interlocutors taking part in (33) is
such that they know that B’s father is a conservative type. Elsheikh (2011) argues
that, given such context, B’s utterance communicates the thought that B has invited
her father to the party (T1), but also that B is not bringing any drinks to the party
(T2). For Elsheikh, T1 and T2 stand in a semiotic relation such that T2 is inferred
from the semantic content of T1 and the context. Because T2 is derived from another
thought (i.e. it is the meaning of T1 for A) and because B intended to communicate
T2, Elsheikh (2011) is prepared to agree that T2 roughly corresponds to what is
traditionally referred to as an implicature. She writes:
It is this semiotic relation among thoughts which is responsible for the kind of inferences
we label ‘implicatures’. So, on the RH, what is standardly called ‘implicature’ might be
construed as the meaning of a thought in a hearer‘s mind such [that] this meaning is
intended and is intended to be recognised as intended. (Elsheikh 2011: 132–133).
The title of Elsheikh (2011) (i.e. The Myth of Explicit Communication) clearly indi-
cates that, even though she is prepared to say that T2 in (33) is implicitly communi-
cated, she is not prepared to say that T1 is explicitly communicated. Elsheikh’s
rejection of the notion of explicit communication is closely tied up with her rejec-
tion of this notion as defined in both Gricean and relevance theoretic traditions. I
agree with Elsheikh’s rejection of the traditional explicit-implicit distinction (as
discussed in Chap. 4); however, I also share Gibbs’ view that despite the lack of
prospects for its formalisation, the intuitive distinction is still there. Hence, I do not
object to the use of the terms explicit and implicit as long as it is made clear that both
terms refer to interpretations that are wholly pragmatically – and locally – derived
(and communicated). To repeat, Elsheikh’s rejection of explicit communication is a
rejection of the idea that there are any non-pragmatic aspects of communication. We
agree on that. However, unlike Elsheikh, I argue, in line with Gibbs (2002), that
some intuitive notion of explicit communication must be acknowledged.
As discussed in Sect. 6.3.1, Gibbs (2002) suggests that conventionality facilitates
comprehension. Now, if conventionality was the only facilitative condition, then T2 in
(33) could be taken as the result of the secondary inference from T1. This is because
6.3 
Implications for the Explicit-Implicit Distinction
186
B’s answer is not the most conventional answer toA’s question.24
However, as observed
by Gibbs, novel, i.e. non-conventional, forms (e.g. novel metaphors, ironies or sarcas-
tic indirect requests) can be accessed more quickly than their literal counterparts as
long as the context is right. This suggests that sufficient contextual clues (both incom-
ing and stored in long term memory) may counter-balance the lack of conventionali-
ty.25
The result is that, given the right context, an utterance which is not the most
conventional may be used to explicitly communicate a thought, which would not be
explicitly communicated by that utterance outside this particular context.
Accordingly, I argue that in (33) what Elsheikh refers to as T2 may be explicitly
communicated – i.e. triggered in the primary inference process, by the utterance of
(33) – if A and B have in their common ground (as defined by Horton and Gerrig
2005) the information that B’s father is conservative and does not approve of drink-
ing. The use of the discourse marker well in this particular example also supports
my analysis. The use of well here signifies that the communicated information will
be in conflict with the hearer’s expectations. Clearly, in the context of A’s question,
the expectations concern the presence of drinks, and not the presence of B’s father
(put simply, A is asking about the drinks, not about B’s father). If well signifies that
what is communicated by the following I have invited my father is in conflict with
the hearer’s expectations and the hearer’s expectations concern the drinks and not
the father, then what is communicated by I have invited my father has to be some-
thing about the drinks. Thus, the use of well in the co-text serves as a salient cue as
to what is being communicated; together with the assumptions in the common
ground, the use of well enables Elsheikh’s T2 to arise via a primary inference pro-
cess. In terms of communication efficiency, it is plausible to assume that the product
of personal commonality assessment dictates to B that this particular form (i.e. B’s
answer in (33)) will be sufficient to communicate both that she is not bringing any
drinks and a reason for it. If the product of personal commonality assessment were
to yield the assumption that A does not know B’s father, B would most likely choose
a less succinct form in (34).
(34) No, I’m not because I have invited my father.
Given Horton and Gerrig’s (2005) approach to common ground, it seems plausible
to assume that there will often be misalignments between speakers and hearers as to
what is explicitly communicated and what is taken to be explicitly communicated.
For example, we can imagine that in scenario (33) the speaker’s communicative
intentions and the common ground are exactly as discussed earlier, but that due to
some normal memory limitation resulting from inattention or tiredness, the relevant
24
 
My assumption is that no would be the most conventional answer here because the use of no
would guarantee successful communication irrespective of the interlocutors’ personal common
ground. It seems plausible to assume that whether an utterance is judged as conventional or not
depends on the social, rather than personal, commonality assessment.
25
 
As long as the relevant clues stored in long term memory are accessed within the time frame to
play immediate role in utterance interpretation (as discussed earlier).
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
187
memory traces in the hearer’s mind were not activated within the time frame to
immediately constrain the interpretation of this utterance. In this situation, the
thought that B’s not bringing any drinks will be derived via the secondary inferential
process from the thought that B has invited her father. Such misalignments are a
necessary consequence of the localist approach to the explicit-implicit distinction.
To summarise, I have argued that once it is acknowledged that interlocutor-­
specific information constitutes part of the immediate contextual constraints on lan-
guage processing (production and comprehension), it seems plausible to approach
the explicit-implicit distinction from the localist perspective of particular conversa-
tions in particular contexts between particular interlocutors. I have further argued
that the explicit-implicit distinction is an epiphenomenon of the amount of process-
ing effort (expected to be) undertaken by the hearer in the processing of an utter-
ance. I also contended that the distinction between what is explicitly and what is
implicitly communicated parallels the distinction between the primary and second-
ary inferential processes.
6.4  Conclusion
In this chapter, I discussed a wholly pragmatic, inferential approach to the interpre-
tation of conditionals. In line with Horton and Gerrig (2005), I argued that (cogni-
tive) contextual information – including the assumption of common ground – places
immediate constraints on utterance interpretation. Using this approach, I was able to
explain when and how the different interpretations of conditionals arise in terms of
cognitive contextual – i.e. holistic/individualistic – conditions. I further argued that
the existence of such holistic/individualistic constraints on utterance interpretation
indicates that what seems objectively messy (i.e. not explainable in terms of some
necessary principles) may actually be subjectively predictable.
Finally, I discussed the implications of a wholly pragmatic approach to utterance
interpretation for the explicit-implicit distinction. In line with the arguments put
forward by Gibbs (2002), I argued that the intuition of the explicit-implicit distinc-
tion arises as an epiphenomenon of the amount of cognitive effort undertaken to
process a given utterance.
The last two chapters have shown that the application of MI (or lack of it) to
conditional utterances has to be pragmatically determined and (b) argued that
because of (a), if MI applies, it does so at the level of individualistic and thus holis-
tic thought. If I am right in so arguing and, if the notion of a conditional sentence
(i.e. an abstract linguistic entity) is dependent on it encoding MI, then it follows that
there are no conditional (i.e. (p⊃q)) sentences (see also Sztencel 2014, Elder and
Jaszczolt 2016). From the perspective of the RH’s definition of parsing (Chap. 3),
interpreting conditional utterances – i.e. representations produced in aid of repre-
senting conditional thoughts – consists in putting these representations, via the pro-
cess of pragmatic inference, into correspondence with a particular conditional
thought, which is the only locus of semantic and structural properties. From this
6.4 Conclusion
188
perspective, the meaning of a given conditional utterance (i.e. what might be seen to
make it a conditional utterance) consists in the relation this utterance bears to the
semantic content of a thought which is arrived at wholly through pragmatic
inference.
The last point I want to make in this chapter concerns the compatibility of the
wholly pragmatic approach with the existence of dynamic attractors (Chap. 5). As
is well documented in psychological literature, there are individual differences in
the interpretation of conditionals. For example, Politzer (1981) discusses differ-
ences between Arts students, whose choices in a truth-table task are more often
characteristic of the biconditional interpretation, and Science students, whose
choices are more often characteristic of the material interpretation. Based on such
findings, one might tentatively suggest that the Arts students are more likely to have
(p≡q) as the attractor for the representans “if” and Science students are more likely
to have (p⊃q) as the attractor.26
However, it is consistent with individual holism that
to assert this with any degree of confidence would require a series of large scale
experiments involving specific populations and a wide range of conditional uses.27
In the meantime, I believe that the notion of dynamic attractors allows to reconcile
the holism of the meaning potential level with some psychologically plausible way
of making useful generalisations.
References
Assimakopoulos, S. (2015). Motivating the procedural analysis of logical connectives. Nouveaux
Cahiers de Linguistique Française, 32, 59–70.
Austin, J. L. (1975). How to do things with words (2nd ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Blakemore, D. (1992). Understanding utterances: An introduction to pragmatics. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Bonnefon, J.-F., & Politzer, G. (2011). Pragmatics, mental models and one paradox of the material
conditional. Mind and Language, 26(2), 141–155.
Burton-Roberts, N. (2007). Varieties of semantics and encoding: negation, narrowing/loosen-
ing and numericals. In N.  Burton-Roberts (Ed.), Pragmatics (pp.  90–114). Basingstoke:
Palgrave-Macmillan.
Burton-Roberts, N. (2013). Meaning, semantics and semiotics. In A. Capone, F. Lo Piparo, &
M. Carapezza (Eds.), Perspectives on inguistic pragmatics (pp. 1–22). London: Springer.
Carston, R. (2002). Thoughts and utterances: The pragmatics of explicit communication. Oxford:
Blackwell.
26
 Note that none of these seems to be involved in the interpretation of so called relevance uses. But
see Noh (2000).
27
 
The results of a within-subject study discussed by Politzer (1981) reveal another complicating
factor – some subjects who were identified as (p≡q) interpreters in the between-subjects study
became (p⊃q) interpreters after training. Politzer also discusses the conjunction interpretation of
conditionals, which this book does not engage with. There’s also the question of material interpre-
tations involving the rejection of the paradoxes and the extended uses of conditionals.
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
189
Carston, R. (2010). Explicit communication and ‘free’ pragmatic enrichment. In B.  Soria &
E.  Romero (Eds.), Explicit communication: Robyn Carston’s pragmatics (pp.  217–287).
Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Carston, R. (2013). Word meaning, what is said and explicature. In C. Penco & F. Domaneschi
(Eds.), What is said and what is not. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Clark, H. H. (1994). Discourse in production. In M. A. Gernsbacher (Ed.), Handbook of psycho-
linguistics (pp. 985–1021). San Diego: Academic.
Comrie, B. (1986). Conditionals: A typology. In E.  Traugott et  al. (Eds.), On conditionals
(pp. 77–99). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Elder, C., & Jaszczolt, K. M. (2016). Towards a pragmatic category of conditionals. Journal of
Pragmatics, 98, 36–53.
Elsheikh, E. (2010). Meaning versus semantics:A representational perspective. Newcastle Working
Papers in Linguistics, 16, 44–55.
Elsheikh, E. (2011). The myth of explicit communication: A view from the representational hypoth-
esis. Saarbrücken: Lambert Academic Publishing.
Evans, V. (2009). How words mean: Lexical concepts, cognitive models, and meaning construc-
tion. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Gerrig, R., Horton, W., & Stent, A. (2011). Production and comprehension of unheralded pro-
nouns: A corpus analysis. Discourse Processes, 48, 161–182.
Gibbs, R. (2002). A new look at literal meaning in understanding what is said and implicated.
Journal of Pragmatics, 34, 457–486.
Grice, H. P. (1989). Studies in the way of words. Cambridge: Harvard University Press.
Hamblin, J. L., & Gibbs, R. (2003). Processing the meanings of what speakers say and implicate.
Discourse Processes, 35(1), 59–80.
Hintzman, D. (1986). “Schema abstraction” in a multiple trace memory model. Psychological
Review, 93, 411–428.
Horton, W. S. (2008). A memory-based approach to common ground and audience design. In
I. Kecsekes & J. Mey (Eds.), Intention, common ground and the egocentric speaker-hearer
(pp. 189–222). Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Horton, W. S., & Gerrig, R. J. (2005). Conversational common ground and memory processes in
language production. Discourse Processes, 40(1), 1–35.
Horton, W., & Slaten, D. (2012). Anticipating who will say what: The influence of speaker specific
memory associations on reference resolution. Memory and Cognition, 40, 113–126.
Hussein, M. (2008). The truth-conditional/non-truth-conditional and the conceptual/procedural
distinctions revisited. Newcastle Working Papers in Linguistics, 14, 61–80.
Hussein, M. (2009). Relevance theory and procedural meaning: The semantics and pragmatics of
discourse markers in English and Arabic. Ph.D. thesis, Newcastle University.
MacFarlane, J. (2010). What is assertion? In H. Cappelen & J. Brown (Eds.), Assertion – new
philosophical essays (pp. 79–96). Oxford/New York: Oxford University Press.
Noh, E.-J. (2000). Metarepresentation: A relevance-theory approach.Amsterdam: John Benjamins
Publishing Co.
Orenes, I., & Johnson-Laird, P. N. (2012). Logic, Models, and Paradoxical Inferences. Mind &
Language, 27(4), 357–377.
Politzer, G. (1981). Differences in interpretation of implication. American Journal of Psychology,
94, 461–477.
Recanati, F. (1993). Direct reference: From language to thought. Oxford: Blackwell Publishers
Ltd..
Searle, J. (1978). Literal meaning. Erkenntnis, 13, 207–224.
Smith, N., & Smith, A. (1988). A relevance-theoretic account of conditionals. In L. Hyman &
N.  Charles (Eds.), Language, speech and mind: Studies in honour of Victoria A.  Fromkin
(pp. 322–352). London/New York: Routledge.
Strawson, P. F. (1986). If and ‘⊃’. In R. E. Grandy & R. Warner (Eds.), Philosophical grounds of
rationality: Intentions, categories, ends (pp. 229–242). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
References
190
Sweetser, E. (1990). From etymology to pragmatics: Metaphorical and cultural Aspects of seman-
tic structure. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Sztencel, M. (2014). Conditionality in individual minds: An argument for a wholly pragmatic
approach to utterance interpretation. Lingua, 152, 81–97.
Urquiza, C. (2014). Constructing concepts and word meanings: The role of context and memory
traces. Ph.D. thesis, University College London.
Van der Auwera, J.  (1985). Language and logic. A speculative and condition-theoretic study.
Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Wilson, D. (2011). The conceptual-procedural distinction: Past, present and future. InV. Escandell-­
Vidal, M.  Leonetti, & A.  Ahern (Eds.), Procedural meaning: Problems and perspectives
(pp. 3–31). Bingley: Emerald Group Publishing.
6  Holistic and Individualistic Constraints on Interpretation
191
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
M. Sztencel, Semantics, Pragmatics and Meaning Revisited,
Perspectives in Pragmatics, Philosophy & Psychology 17,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-69116-9_7
Chapter 7
Conclusion
This book set out to investigate whether it is plausible and necessary to posit the
existence of specifically linguistic semantics. I argued that the notion of linguistic
semantics, as well as the cognitive process of deterministic decoding of such con-
tent, is implausible and unnecessary to account for meaning in language. I then
explored the consequences of this claim for a theory of meaning and utterance
interpretation.
In Chap. 2, I raised questions about the nature of semantic content and its relation
to words. I argued that, in the context of the externalist-internalist debate about the
nature of semantic content, the problems with Fodor’s referentialism strongly tip the
balance in favour of internalism. I then endorsed Chomsky’s (2000) position on
semantics, from which it follows that: (a) a word’s semantics is internally composi-
tional, (b) it is context-variable and (c) it is radically individualistic. However, I
argued that there is a tension between the consequences of Chomsky’s internalist-­
individualistic assumptions and his double-interface view of language: from the
former it follows that there is no linguistic semantics and from the latter it follows
that there is linguistic semantics.
In Chap. 3, I sought to show that the tension between the consequences of
internalism-­
individualism, on the one hand, and the double-interface view of lan-
guage, on the other, should be resolved in favour of internalism-individualism. To
this aim, I first discussed some problems with the nature and acquisition of linguis-
tic semantics in Relevance Theory. I argued that the introduction of full-fledged
concepts (i.e. concepts with truth-theoretic properties) into the lexical concept rep-
ertoire leaves RT with no principled distinction between lexical and ad hoc con-
cepts. Secondly, I argued that even if acquired, lexical concepts (a) are either
unnecessary in utterance interpretation because they are post hoc or (b) cannot con-
stitute adequate evidence for the intended interpretation because they are derived
through personal inference. Thirdly, I argued that the posited cognitive process of
deterministic decoding of linguistic semantic content is redundant in cases of loose
use, cases of so-called concept narrowing and where the communicated concept is
192
the same as the assumed lexical concept. I then argued that there is no linguistic
semantics and that utterance interpretation is a wholly pragmatic inferential pro-
cess, which is immediately constrained by a personal, holistic inference about the
communicative intention of the speaker in a given conversational context.
I defended my position by endorsing the Representational Hypothesis’ (e.g.
Burton-Roberts 2013) definition of meaning-as-relation and Hintzman’s (1986)
multiple-trace theory of memory. I argued that the RH offers a way of reconciling
the non-existence of linguistic semantics with the fact that uttered words are mean-
ingful. I further suggested that Hintzman’s radically contextualist account of infor-
mation retrieval invalidates the criticism that utterance interpretation without
linguistic semantics is not sufficiently constrained to allow for successful commu-
nication. The general conclusion of Chap. 3 was that utterance interpretation does
not proceed from what is (controversially) shared – i.e. linguistic semantics – to
what sufficiently converges, but from what diverges – i.e. multiple-memory traces
associated with particular semiotic labels – to what sufficiently converges.
In Chap. 4, I looked at philosophical legacy in thinking about linguistic seman-
tics. I argued that all philosophical notions of shared content which have been pos-
ited as linguistic semantics (i.e. causal-externalist wide content, social-externalist
wide content and non-truth-theoretic narrow content) are problematic and that
holism is the only plausible thesis about mental content. I argued that, contrary to
claims made by Fodor and Lepore (1992), holism: (a) does allow for mental gener-
alisations (and thus for a theory of the human mind) – in terms of quantified laws,
(b) does offer an accurate account of compositionality – as long as the existence of
(immediate) pragmatic constraints is acknowledged; and (c) does not give rise to the
sense-reference problem. I further argued that an RH-based wholly inferential
account of utterance interpretation, combined with Bilgrami-type notion of public
availability of communicated concepts, allows for successful communication with-
out the need to posit linguistic semantics.
In the second part of the book, I investigated whether my theoretical arguments
apply to the analysis of the relation between the linguistic sign if and MI. In Chap.
5, I argued that the claim that if semantically encodes MI cannot be maintained even
when this claim is supported by pragmatic explanation. Contrary to claims made in
Carston (2002: 99–100), I argued that the purportedly encoded semantic content is
not autonomous with respect to pragmatic inference – I showed that if MI applies,
it can only ever do so at the level of pragmatically inferred holistic thought. Not
only does it demonstrate that MI cannot be the encoded semantic content of if, but
it also strengthens the RH’s claim that thought is the only locus of semantic content
and my earlier claim that such content is holistic and accessible solely through prag-
matic inference. Looking at conditional promises and threats, I further argued it is
implausible to assume that the general ~(p & ~q) constraint (which is assumed by
both truth-functional and non-truth-functional approaches) provides a uniform
semantics for conditional inducements. Focusing on conditional inducements, I put
forward the Inverse Effect Hypothesis, which foregrounds the interlocutors’ holistic
states of mind. I argued that this socio-cognitively grounded hypothesis offers a
more explanatory and more uniform account of conditional inducements than the
7 Conclusion
193
one which assumes MI or the ~(p & ~q) constraint as the encoded semantics of
conditionals.
In Chap. 6, I showed how the interpretation of conditionals can be explained in
terms of Horton and Gerrig’s (2005) extension of a multiple-trace theory of memory
into the study of conversational common ground. I distinguished between basic and
extended uses of conditionals. I argued that in basic uses if signals a relation between
two propositional objects p and q, whereas in extended uses if signals a relation
between a proposition and an utterance (or speech act). I argued that, unlike previ-
ous approaches (e.g. Noh (2000); Sweetser (1990); Smith and Smith (1988)), the
wholly pragmatic (holistic) analysis proposed in this book handles the variation
found in the interpretation of basic and extended uses. Finally, I discussed the impli-
cations of a wholly pragmatic approach to utterance interpretation for the distinc-
tion between explicit and implicit communication. In line with Gibbs (2002), I
argued that the explicit-implicit distinction is an intuitive epiphenomenon of the
amount of cognitive effort undertaken (and expected to be undertaken) to process a
given utterance.
This book has indicated a number of areas for further research. Firstly, my inves-
tigation of conditionals was limited to indicative conditionals, as this group alone
exhibits a degree of variation sufficient to illustrate and support the theoretical argu-
ments put forward in Chaps. 2, 3, and 4. However, no study of conditionals is com-
plete without investigating counterfactual (or subjunctive) conditionals and their
relation to indicative conditionals (for some flagship treatments see e.g. Dudman
1988; Jackson 1990; Rescher 2007).
Now, Rescher (2007) offers a unified account of counterfactual conditionals
based on epistemological principles rather than on any semantic principles. In Chap.
5, I have also mentioned the epistemological approach to indicative conditionals by
Douven (2013, 2015) and Krzyżanowska et al. (2013). The important work to be
done in the future is to investigate the extent to which the wholly pragmatic account
proposed in this book is compatible with the work in epistemology of conditionals.
I believe that this may be a very fruitful direction to pursue.
Secondly, it is important to investigate the relation between and, or and not, on
the one hand, and logical functors of conjunction, disjunction and negation, on the
other. For example, it transpires that even a brief reflection on or reveals interesting
facts. Consider (1).
(1) Tomorrow I will take the 9 am flight to Paris or the 9 am flight to New York.
Let us assume with Grice (1989, see also Crain et al. 2000) that semantically or is
inclusive, i.e. it is equivalent to the logical functor of disjunction, which is true if at
least one of the disjuncts is true. On this assumption, the exclusive (i.e. p or q and
not both) interpretation can be seen as a GCI and explained by reference to semantic
scales (e.g. Levinson 2000); by uttering a lower member on the scale (and ├ or), the
speaker is conversationally implicating that the stronger one does not obtain. As for
Relevance Theory, it is assumed (e.g. Chevallier et  al. 2008) that the exclusive
7 Conclusion
194
interpretation arises as an explicature, derived on the basis of encoded inclusive
disjunction and (cognitive) context of the utterance. In the case of (1), it is plausible
to assume that the relevant cognitive context would concern the assumption that a
single person cannot board two planes at the same time. Both Grice/Levinson and
RT have a way of explaining why, even though or encodes inclusive disjunction, the
utterance of it in (1) communicates the more specific p or q and not both.
However, it seems that, as was the case with if, so with or, there is a problem with
belief divergences from the logic of inclusive disjunction. A person C can rationally
but inconsistently with the logic of inclusive disjunction believe that the next day C
will take the 9 am flight to Paris or the 9 am flight to New York. If Edgington (e.g.
2008) is right, this exclusive disjunction belief deviation from the logic of inclusive
disjunction cannot be explained away in semantico-pragmatic terms.
Thirdly, the local account of the explicit-implicit distinction which I pointed
towards in this book needs a more in-depth investigation. As a particular area of
interest I identify research into the extent of correlation between (a) the intuition of
explicit communication (E) and a high degree of reliance on communal commonal-
ity assessment (CCA); and (b) the intuition of implicit communication (I) and a high
degree of reliance on personal commonality assessment (PCA). If the arguments put
forward in Gibbs (2002); Hamblin and Gibbs (2003) and in Sect. 6.3 are on the right
track, in real life discourses we should often be able to find lack of correlation
between E and high degree of CCA and between I and high degree of PCA.
Relevance Theory has shown that the role of pragmatic inference in utterance
interpretation is much greater than Grice had envisaged. I hope to have shown in
this book that the role of pragmatic inference in utterance interpretation is even
greater than envisaged by modern semantico-pragmatic theories and that this fact is
not as problematic as argued by sceptics.
References
Burton-Roberts, N. (2013). Meaning, semantics and semiotics. In A. Capone, F. Lo Piparo, &
M. Carapezza (Eds.), Perspectives on linguistic pragmatics (pp. 1–22). London: Springer.
Carston, R. (2002). Thoughts and utterances: The pragmatics of explicit communication. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Chevallier, C., Noveck, I., Bott, L., Lanzetti, V., Nazir, T., & Sperber, D. (2008). Making disjunc-
tions exclusive. Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, 61(11), 1741–1760.
Chomsky, N. (2000). New horizons in the study of language and mind. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Crain, S., Gualmini, A., & Meroni, L. (2000). The acquisition of logical words. LOGOS and
Language, 1, 49–59.
Douven, I. (2013). The epistemology of conditionals. Oxford Studies in Epistemology, 4, 3–33.
Douven, I. (2015). The epistemology of indicative conditionals: Formal and empirical approaches.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Dudman, V. H. (1988). Indicative and subjunctive. Analysis, 48, 113–122.
Edgington, D. (2008). Conditionals. In E. N. Zalta (Ed.), The Stanford encyclopedia of philosophy.
http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/conditionals. Accessed 25 Sept 2012.
7 Conclusion
195
Fodor, J., & Lepore, E. (1992). Holism: A shopper’s guide. Oxford/Cambridge: Blackwell
Publishers.
Gibbs, R. (2002). A new look at literal meaning in understanding what is said and implicated.
Journal of Pragmatics, 34, 457–486.
Grice, H. P. (1989). Studies in the way of words. Cambridge: Harvard University Press.
Hamblin, J. L., & Gibbs, R. (2003). Processing the meanings of what speakers say and implicate.
Discourse Processes, 35(1), 59–80.
Hintzman, D. (1986). “Schema abstraction” in a multiple trace memory model. Psychological
Review, 93, 411–428.
Horton, W. S., & Gerrig, R. J. (2005). Conversational common ground and memory processes in
language production. Discourse Processes, 40(1), 1–35.
Jackson, F. (1990). Classifying conditionals I. Analysis, 50, 134–147.
Krzyżanowska, K., Wenmackers, S., & Douven, I. (2013). Inferential conditionals and evidential-
ity. Journal of Logic Language and Information, 22, 315–334.
Levinson, S. (2000). Presumptive meanings: The theory of generalized conversational implicature.
Cambridge: MIT Press.
Noh, E.-J. (2000). Metarepresentation: A relevance-theory approach.Amsterdam: John Benjamins
Publishing.
Rescher, N. (2007). Conditionals. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Smith, N., & Smith, A. (1988). A relevance-theoretic account of conditionals. In L. Hyman &
N.  Charles (Eds.), Language, speech and mind: Studies in honour of Victoria A.  Fromkin
(pp. 322–352). London/New York: Routledge.
Sweetser, E. (1990). From etymology to pragmatics: Metaphorical and cultural aspects of seman-
tic structure. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
References
