1-8 1. Introduction, History ofResearch, and Methodology
analysis exhibit a large number of recurrent sound-meaning correspondences, we are not dealing
with chance resemblances.
1.5. Critique of Moscovite Views on Nostratic
Let me begin by stating unequivocally that I have the highest admiration for what
Moscovite scholarship (especially the work of V. M. Illic-Svityc and A. B. Dolgopolsky — some
of the work done by other Russian scholars is not on the same level) on Nostratic has achieved.
Their research has opened up new and exciting possibilities and given Nostratic studies new
respectability. However, this does not mean that I agree with everything they say. I regard their
work as a pioneering effort and, as such, subject to modification in light of advances in linguistic
theory, in light of new data from the Nostratic daughter languages, and in light of findings from
typological studies that give us a better understanding of the kind of patterning that is found in
natural languages as well as a better understanding of what is characteristic of language in
general, including language change.
Let us begin by looking at phonology: In 1972 and 1973, the Georgian scholar Thomas
V. Gamkrelidze and the Russian scholar Vjaceslav V. Ivanov jointly proposed a radical
reinterpretation of the Proto-Indo-European stop system. According to their reinterpretation, the
Proto-Indo-European stop system was characterized by the three-way contrast glottalized ~
voiceless (aspirated) ~ voiced (aspirated). In this revised interpretation, aspiration is viewed as a
redundant feature, and the phonemes in question could also be realized as allophonic variants
without aspiration. A similar proposal was made by Paul J. Hopper at the same time (Hopper
[1973] and in a number of subsequent publications —these are listed in the references).
This new interpretation opens new possibilities for comparing Proto-Indo-European with
the other Nostratic daughter languages, especially Proto-Kartvelian and Proto-Afroasiatic, each
of which had a similar three-way contrast. The most natural assumption would be that the
glottalized stops posited by Gamkrelidze and Ivanov for Proto-Indo-European would correspond
to glottalized stops in Proto-Kartvelian and Proto-Afroasiatic, while the voiceless stops would
correspond to voiceless stops and voiced stops to voiced stops. This, however, is quite different
from the correspondences proposed by Illic-Svityc. He sees the glottalized stops of Proto-
Kartvelian and Proto-Afroasiatic as corresponding to the traditional plain voiceless stops of
Proto-Indo-European, while the voiceless stops in the former two branches are seen as
corresponding to the traditional plain voiced stops of Proto-Indo-European, and, finally, the
voiced stops to the traditional voiced aspirates of Proto-Indo-European. Illic-Svityc then
reconstructs the Proto-Nostratic phonological system on the model of Kartvelian and Afroasiatic,
with the three-way contrast glottalized — voiceless ~ voiced in the series of stops and affricates.
The mistake that Illic-Svityc made was in trying to equate the glottalized stops of Proto-
Kartvelian and Proto-Afroasiatic with the traditional plain voiceless stops of Proto-Indo-
European. His reconstruction would make the glottalized stops the least marked members of the
Proto-Nostratic stop system. Illic-Svityc’s reconstruction is thus in contradiction to typological
evidence, according to which glottalized stops are uniformly the most highly marked members of
1. Introduction, History ofResearch, and Methodology 1
9
a hierarchy. The reason that Illic-Svityc’s reconstruction would make the glottalized stops the
least marked members is as follows: Illic-Svityc posits glottalics for Proto-Nostratic on the
basis of one or two seemingly solid examples in which glottalics in Proto-Affoasiatic and/or
Proto-Kartvelian appear to correspond to traditional plain voiceless stops in Proto-Indo-
European. On the basis of these examples, he assumes that, whenever there is a voiceless stop in
the Proto-Indo-European examples he cites, a glottalic is to be reconstructed for Proto-Nostratic,
even when there are no glottalics in the corresponding Kartvelian and Afroasiatic forms! This
means that the Proto-Nostratic glottalics have the same frequency distribution as the Proto-Indo-
European plain voiceless stops. Clearly, this cannot be correct. The main consequence of Illic-
Svityc’s mistaken equation of the glottalized stops of Proto-Kartvelian and Proto-Afroasiatic
with the traditional plain voiceless stops of Proto-Indo-European is that he is led to posit forms
for Proto-Nostratic on the basis of theoretical considerations but for which there is absolutely no
evidence in any of the Nostratic daughter languages. (For a discussion of markedness theory and
its implications for historical-comparative linguistics, cf. Gamkrelidze 1978 and 1981.)
What about those examples adduced by Illic-Svityc which appear to support his proposed
correspondences? Some of these examples admit alternative explanations, while others are
questionable from a semantic point of view and should be abandoned. Once these examples are
removed, there is an extremely small number (no more than a handful) left over that appear to
support his position. However, compared to the massive counter-evidence in which glottalized
stops in Kartvelian and Afroasiatic correspond to similar sounds (the traditional plain voiced
stops) in Proto-Indo-European, even these residual examples become suspect (they may be
borrowings or simply false cognates).
Another major shortcoming is in Illic-Svityc’s reconstruction of the Proto-Nostratic
vowel system, which, according to him, is essentially that of modem Finnish. It simply stretches
credibility beyond reasonable bounds to assume that the Proto-Nostratic vowel system could
have been preserved unchanged in Finnish, especially considering the many millennia that must
have passed between the dissolution of the Nostratic parent language and the emergence of
Finnish. No doubt, this erroneous reconstruction came about as a result of Illic-Svityc’s failure
to deal with the question of subgrouping. The Uralic-Yukaghir phylum, of which Finnish is a
member, belongs to the Eurasiatic branch of Nostratic. Now, Eurasiatic is several millennia
younger than Afroasiatic, which appears to be the oldest branch of the Nostratic macrofamily.
Therefore, Afroasiatic must play a key role in the reconstmction of the Proto-Nostratic vowel
system, and the Uralic-Yukaghir vowel system must be considered a later development that
cannot possibly represent the original state of affairs.
1.6. Evidence for Nostratic
The following evidence provides the basis for setting up a Nostratic macrofamily:
1. First and foremost, the descendant languages can be shown to share a large common
vocabulary. In an article published in 1965, Illic-Svityc listed 607 possible common
20 1. Introduction, History ofResearch, and Methodology
Nostratic roots, but only 378 have been published to date in his posthumous comparative
Nostratic dictionary. It should be noted that there are differences between the etymologies
proposed in 1965 and the items included in the later dictionary: first, some of the items listed
in 1965 do not appear in the dictionary; next, minor changes have been made to several of the
earlier etymologies. Dolgopolsky currently claims to have just over 2,000 common Nostratic
roots, but only a small sampling of this material has been published to date. In the joint
monograph by myself and John C. Kerns, entitled The Nostratic Macrofamily: A Study in
Distant Linguistic Relationship, I supply a great deal of lexical material (approximately
25,000 cited forms) from the Nostratic daughter languages to support 601 common Nostratic
roots. It should be mentioned here as well that Greenberg is currently preparing a book
entitled Indo-European and Its Closest Relatives: The Eurasiatic Language Family, in
which a large amount of lexical material will be discussed, though Greenberg’s Eurasiatic is
not the same as Nostratic.
2. As is to be expected, the various branches of Nostratic investigated to date exhibit regular
sound correspondences (see Table 2 at the end of Chapter 4 for details), though, it should be
mentioned, there are differences in interpretation between Illic-Svityc and Dolgopolsky on
the one hand and myself on the other.
3. Finally, a substantial number of common grammatical formants have now been recovered —
many of these are listed in Illic-Svityc’ s comparative Nostratic dictionary; see also the
chapter on Nostratic morphology by John C. Kems in Bomhard—Kems (1994:141 —190)
and, especially, volume 1 of Greenberg’s Indo-European and Its Closest Relatives: The
Eurasiatic Language Family.
Notable among the lexical items uncovered by Illic-Svityc, Dolgopolsky, Greenberg, and
myself is a solid core of common pronominal stems (these are listed below in Table 1, though
only the stems represented in Indo-European are given — the Proto-Nostratic reconstructions are
given according to my system; for information on other pronoun stems, cf. Dolgopolsky 1984).
These pronominal stems have particular importance, since, as forcefully demonstrated by John C.
Kems (1985:9—50), pronouns, being among the most stable elements of a language, are a
particularly strong indicator of genetic relationship (Ruhlen 1994:92—93 makes the same point).
Kems (1985:48) concludes (the emphasis is his):
The results are overwhelming. We are forced to conclude that the pronominal agreements
between Indo-European and Uralic, between Uralic and Altaic, and between Indo-European and
Altaic, did not develop independently, but instead were CAUSED by some UNIQUE historical
circumstance. In short, it is extremely unlikely that the three pronominal systems could have
evolved independently.
The conclusion seems inescapable that the consistent, regular phonological
correspondences that can be shown to exist among the Nostratic daughter languages as well as
the agreements in vocabulary and grammatical formants that have been uncovered to date cannot
be explained as due to linguistic borrowing or mere chance but can only be accounted for in
1. Introduction, History ofResearch, and Methodology 21
terms of common origin, that is, genetic relationship. To assume any other possibility would be
tantamount to denying the efficacy of the Comparative Method. This does not mean that all
problems have been solved. On the contrary, there remain many issues to be investigated and
many details to be worked out, but the future looks extremely exciting and extremely promising.
Chart
1:
The
Nostratic
Macrofamily
22 1. Introduction, History ofResearch, and Methodology
>
H
O
NOSTRATIC
1.
Introduction, History ofResearch, and Methodology 23
Table 1: The Distribution of Nostratic Pronoun Stems
A. Personal Pronoun Stems
Proto- Proto
Nostratic IE
Proto- Proto-
Kartvelian Afroasiatic
Proto-
Uralic
Proto-
Dravidian
Proto-
Altaic Sumerian
*mi-/*me- *me-l
(lstsg.) *mo-
*me-, *ma-l
*men- *mo-
*me *mi
(> *bi)
ma(-e),
me-a,
me-e
*ma-/*m3- *-me-/
(1st pi. *-mo-
incl.)
*ma-l
*ma-
*me *ma-
(> *ba-)
-me
*wa-/*w3- *we-/
(1st pi.) *wo-;
*wey-
*wa-/
*W3-
*na-l*na- *ne-l
(1st pi.) *no-\
*n-s-
o
*na-/
*ns-
*nSm-
*t[h]i-l *t[h]u,
*t[h]e- *t[h]e-
(2nd sg.)
*t[h]a-/
*t[h
Jo-
*te *ti,
*ta
za-e,
-zu
NOTES:
1. Indo-European: The 1st sg. stem *mi-/*me
-
is used in the oblique cases (except in the Celtic
branch, where it has spread into the nominative as well); the 1st pi. inclusive stem *ma-l*m3- is
preserved in 1st person plural verb endings; the 1st pi. stem *wa-/*w3- is preserved as an
independent 1st person plural pronoun stem and in 1st person dual and/or plural verb endings;
the 2nd sg. reconstructions *t[h]u, *t[h]e- represent later, Post-Anatolian forms.
2. Kartvelian: The 1st pi. stem *na-/*n3- is found in Svan naj “we”.
3. Afroasiatic: The 1st sg. stem *mi-/*me- and 1st pi. inclusive stem *ma-/*m3- are found only in
Chadic as independent pronouns; the 1st sg. stem * mi-1*me- serves as the basis of the 1st sg.
verbal suffix in Highland East Cushitic; the 1st pi. stem *wa-/*w3- is found in Egyptian and
Chadic (in Egyptian, wy means “I, me”).
24 1. Introduction, History ofResearch, and Methodology
4. Elamo-Dravidian: The 2nd sg. stem *tf']i-!*t[
h]e- is found in Elamite in the 2nd sg. and pi.
verb ending -t and in Dravidian in the Paiji appositional marker -t of the 2nd sg. in
pronominalized nouns and as a verb suffix of the 2nd sg.
5. Altaic: The 1st sg. stem *mi- has become bi “I” in the Ataic daughter languages, while the 1st
pi. stem *ma- has become ba in Mongolian (= 1st pi. exclusive); the initial *m- is preserved in
the oblique cases, however; the 2nd sg. stem *t[h]i- has become ci “you” in Mongolian.
6. Sumerian: ma(-e), me-a, me-e “I” are Emesal forms; -me is a 1st pi. possessive suffix, “our”;
-zu is a 2nd sg. possessive suffix, “your”.
7. Etruscan: The 1st sg. stem *mi-/*me- is preserved in (nominative) mi “I”, (accusative) mini
“me”; the 2nd sg. stem may be preserved in the pronoun stem 6i, but this is uncertain since the
meaning of the Etruscan form is unknown — however, the 2nd sg. stem *t[h
]i-/*tf,
]e- is clearly
reflected in the Etruscan verbal imperative endings -ti, -6, -6i.
8. Chukchi-Kamchatkan: The pronouns of the 1st and 2nd persons sg. and pi. are as follows in
Chukchi:
Singular Plural
1 yo-m mu-r;
2 yo-t tu-ri
9. Gilyak: The 1st pi. inclusive stem *ma-/*mo- is preserved in the 1st pi. inclusive pronoun me-r
“we” (note also 1st dual me-gi)', the 2nd sg. stem *t[h]i-/*t[h]e- is preserved in the 2nd sg.
pronoun ci “you”.
10. Eskimo-Aleut: The 1st sg. stem *mi-l*me- is preserved in the West Greenlandic 1st sg. relative
possessive suffix -ma, while the 2nd sg. stem *t[h]i-l*t[
h]e- is preserved in the 2nd sg.
absolutive possessive suffix -(i)t. The plural forms are -ma and -tit respectively.
1. Introduction, History ofResearch, and Methodology 25
B. Demonstrative Pronoun Stems
Proto- Proto Proto- Proto- Proto- Proto- Proto-
Nostratic IE Kartvelian Alfoasiatic Uralic Dravidian Altaic Sumerian
*sa-/*ss- *so- *sr *sd
*t[h]a-l *t[h
Jo- *t[h]a-/ *ta, *ta *tSn- *te-
*t[h]3- *t[h]3-
(proximate)
*t[h]u-/ *t[h
Jo- *t[h]a-l *to
*t[h]o-
(distant)
*t[»]3-
*k[h]a-/ *k[h]e-, *-k[h
J- *k[h]a-l
*k[h]o- *k[h]o-,
*k[h]i-
*k[»]3-
*dri-/*dre- *-d[h
]e * dra-/*dr3- *tyi-/*tye-
*?i-/*?e- *?e-!*?o-\ */-, *e- *e *f- *i-, *e-
*?ey-l (distant) (proximate) (proximate)
*?oy-l
*?i-
*?a-/*?3- *?e-/*?o- *a-, *e-
(proximate)
*na-/*ns-, *ne-/*no- *na-/*no- *na, *na
*ni-/*ne-,
*nu-/*no- *no
ne-en,
ne(-e)
*a- *a-
(distant) (distant)
NOTES:
1. Indo-European: The stem *dyi-l*dye- is only preserved as a suffixed particle *-d[h]e: the stem
*ne-/*no- has a derivative *?e-no-/*?o-no-.
26 1 . Introduction, History ofResearch, and Methodology
2. Altaic: The stem *t[h]a-/*t[h
]o- is used as the distant demonstrative in Altaic: Mongolian
(nom. sg.) tere (< *te-r-e) “that”, (nom. pi.) tede “those”; Tungus (Solon) tari “that”; Manchu
tere “that”.
3. Sumerian: The demonstrative stem *?i-/*?e- is found in e “hither, here”.
4. Etruscan: The proximate stem *t[h]a-l*t[h]o- is preserved in ita, ta “this”; the stem *k[h]a-
/*kP1
]a- is preserved in eca (archaic ika), ca “this”.
5. Gilyak: The proximate stem *t[h
]a-/*t[h]o- is preserved in (proximate) tid' “this”; the stem
*k[h]a-/*k[h]3- is preserved in kud’ “that”.
6. Eskimo-Aleut: The stem *t[h]a-/*t[h]a- is preserved in the Inuit (also called Inupiaq) prefix ta-,
which may be added to any demonstrative form whose coreferent has already been focused.
1. Introduction, History ofResearch, and Methodology 27
C. Relative and Interrogative Stems
Proto-
Nostratic
Proto- Proto- Proto-
IE Kartvelian Afroasiatic
Proto-
Uralic
Proto-
Dravidian
Proto-
Altaic Sumerian
*kw
[
h]i-l
*kw
[
h]e-
(relative)
*kw
[
h]e-l
*kw
[
h]o-l
*kw
[
h]i-
*ki, *ke *ki-, *ke-
*kw
[
h]a-l
*kw
[
h]o-
(inter.)
*kw
[
h]e-t
*kw
[
h]o-l
*kw
[
h
Ji-
*kw
[
h
Ja-/
*kw
[
h]9-
*ku, *ko ( *ki-, *ke-)
*mi-/*me-
(inter.)
*me-/*mo- *mi-,
*min-
*ma-/*mo- *mi
*ma-/*mo-
(relative)
*me-l*mo- *ma- *ma-/*mo- (!*mi)
*?ay-, *?yo- *?ay(y)- *yo *ya- *ya-
*?ya-
(relative and inter.)
NOTES:
1 . Kartvelian: The relative / interrogative stem *?ya- is found in Svan (interrogative) jar “who?”,
(relative) jerwaj “who”, (indefinite) jer “somebody, something”.
2. Altaic: The interrogative stem *mi-/*me- is found in the Turkish interrogative particles mi, mi,
mu, mu.
3. Sumerian: The interrogative stem *mi-/*me- occurs in me-na-am “when?”, me-a “where?”, me-
se “where to?”. The relative / interrogative stem *?ay-, *?ya- may be preserved in the
interrogative stems a-ba “who?” (animate) and a-na “what?” (inanimate), if a- represents
original *ya-.
4. Chukchi-Kamchatkan: The interrogative stem * mi-1* me- is preserved in merjin “who?”.
5. Eskimo-Aleut: The interrogative stem *kw
[
h
Ja-/*kw
[
h]o- is preserved in the Proto-Eskimo
interrogative pronoun *ki(na) “who?” and in *qarja “when?”, *qavcit “how many?”, *qaku
“when (in future)?”. The interrogative stem *mi-/*me- is preserved in the Proto-Eskimo enclitic
particle *mi “what about?”.
2
A Survey of the Nostratic Languages
2.1. Indo-European
Indo-European (in German, Indogermanisch) includes the following branches: Anatolian
(Hittite-Luwian), Italic, Celtic, Germanic, Tocharian, Greek, Baltic, Slavic, Albanian, Armenian,
and Indo-Iranian. There are also a number of poorly-attested Indo-European daughter languages
such as Thracian, Phrygian, Venetic, Illyrian, Ligurian, and several others. Phrygian may be the
ancestor of Armenian, but this is not absolutely certain. Indo-European languages cover all of
Europe except for Basque (found in northern Spain and the southwestern comer of France),
Turkish (found in the Balkans), and Uralic (Finnish, Estonian, Hungarian, and several others
with extremely small numbers of speakers), modem Iran, parts of Central Asia north of Iran,
Afghanistan, and northern and central India. European colonization has also spread Indo-
European languages to the New World, where they have mostly supplanted Native American
languages, to Australia and New Zealand, and to large parts of Africa and Asia, where they are
used as languages of administration and/or learning. The extinct Hittite and Luwian were spoken
in what is now Turkey, while the Tocharian dialects, which are also extinct, were spoken in what
is now the Xinjiang (Sinkiang — Chinese Turkestan) Autonomous Region of the People’s
Republic of China.
The Indo-European language family has been subjected to thorough study for the past
two centuries, and there is broad agreement among scholars on essentials, which is not to say that
all problems have been resolved or that there are still not controversial issues. Several languages
have extremely old records and/or literatures, such as Hittite, whose earliest records go back to
around 1800 BCE, though the majority of documents date from 1500 to 1200 BCE; Mycenaean
Greek, whose earliest inscriptions date from 1300 BCE; Sanskrit, with the oldest part of the Rig-
Veda (written in an archaic dialect of Old Indie) probably going back as far as 1200 BCE;
Avestan, the liturgical language of Zoroastrianism, whose most ancient scriptures date from
about 600 BCE; Old Persian, which begins with the Achaemenid Records from about 500 to 400
BCE; and Italic, with the oldest Latin inscription dating from the sixth century BCE, and with the
earliest Oscan-Umbrian records dating from about the fifth century BCE. Records do not begin
to appear for the other Indo-European daughter languages until the middle to later half of the first
millennium CE.
Two large dialect groups are conventionally recognized: (A) the so-called “centum”
languages and (B) the so-called “satom” languages. This dialectal division is based upon the
different treatment of the gutturals in each group. In the satom languages, sibilants (.? and z),
palato-alveolar fricatives (s and z), and affricates correspond to velars in the centum languages,
while velars and affricates in the former group correspond to reflexes of earlier labiovelars in the
30 2. A Survey ofthe Nostratic Languages
latter group. There are other correspondences as well, found in a small number of examples, in
which velars in the centum languages correspond to velars in the satom languages. Though
much attention has been devoted in the literature to this division, its significance is greatly
overrated.
Morphologically, Indo-European was a highly inflected language — except for particles,
conjunctions, and certain quasi-adverbial forms, all words were inflected. The basic structure of
inflected words was as follows: root + suffix (one or more) + inflectional ending. A notable
morphophonemic characteristic was the extensive use of a system of vocalic alternations
(‘"Ablaut” in German) as a means to mark morphological distinctions. For nouns and adjectives,
three genders, three numbers, and as many as eight cases have been reconstructed, though it is
doubtful that all of these features were ancient — it is indeed possible to discern several
chronological layers of development. The traditional reconstruction of the Proto-Indo-European
verbal system sets up two voices, four moods, and as many as six tenses. Syntactically, Proto-
Indo-European seems to have had many of the characteristics of an SOV language, though there
must, no doubt, have been a great deal of flexibility in basic word order patterning.
2.2. Kartvelian
Kartvelian (also referred to as South Caucasian) includes the following languages:
Georgian, Mingrelian, Laz, and Svan. These languages fall into two main groupings, namely,
Svan. on the one hand, and Georgian, Laz, and Mingrelian, on the other. Laz and Mingrelian, in
turn, form the Zan subbranch. Svan preserves many archaic characteristics. Except for Laz,
which is spoken in Turkey, and the Ingilouri dialect of Georgian, which is spoken in Azerbaijan,
the Kartvelian languages are spoken in the westernmost parts of the Caucasus Mountains within
the borders of the Republic of Georgia.
Georgian, which has its own distinctive alphabet, has a literary tradition going back 1 500
years, the earliest text being a translation of the Bible dating from the 5th century CE, only
fragments of which still exist. The early literature was exclusively religious, and it was only
with the so-called “Golden Age” (12th century CE) that secular literature began to appear.
A notable feature of Kartvelian phonology is the existence of complex consonant clusters
— Georgian, for example, tolerates 740 initial clusters, which can have upwards of six members,
and 244 final clusters. Morphologically, the Kartvelian languages are all highly inflected;
Georgian, for example, has six basic grammatical cases as well as eleven secondary cases. A
notable characteristic of noun declension is the distinction of ergative and absolutive cases; the
ergative case is used to mark the subject of transitive verbs, while the absolutive case is used to
mark direct objects and the subject of intransitive verbs. It is the dative case, however, that is
used to mark the subject of so-called “inverted verbs”. There are several other departures from
canonical ergative-type constructions, so much so in Mingrelian, for instance, that this language
no longer possesses any true ergative features. Adjectives normally precede the nouns they
modify. Postpositions are the rule. Verb morphology is particularly complicated — for
2.
A Survey ofthe Nostratic Languages 3
1
example, Deeters lists eleven distinctive functional elements that may be arrayed around a given
verb root, though they may not all appear simultaneously; the overall scheme is as follows:
1. Preverb(s)
2. Personal prefix(es) (subjective or objective)
3. Character or version vowel
ROOT
4. Passive suffix
5. Causative suffix(es)
6. Plural suffix (for nominative-absolutive noun)
7. Present stem formant
8. Imperfect suffix
9. Mood vowel
10. Personal ending
1 1 . Subjective plural suffix
Syntactically, the predominant word order is SOV, though SVO is not uncommon.
2.3. Afroasiatic
Affoasiatic (also called Afrasian. Hamito-Semitic, Semito-Hamitic, Erythraic, and
Lisramic) includes six branches: Semitic, Egyptian, (Libyco-)Berber, Cushitic, Omotic, and
Chadic. Except for Semitic, all of the Affoasiatic languages are found in northern and eastern
Africa. In ancient times. Semitic was primarily located in the Near East, but Muslim conquests
beginning in the 7th century CE have spread a single Semitic language, namely, Arabic, across
the greater part of northern Africa, where it has totally replaced Egyptian (Coptic) as a spoken
language and has greatly restricted, but has not totally supplanted Berber, which now exists only
in isolated pockets. It is estimated that there are at least 250 languages in the family.
The following chronology may be established for the branching off of the various
branches of Afroasiatic: Chadic, which appears to contain many innovative features, must have
been the first branch to split from the rest of the Afroasiatic speech community. The next split
was between Omotic and Cushitic on the one hand and Egyptian, Berber, and Semitic on the
other. Finally, first Egyptian and then Berber split off from Semitic. Within Semitic, Akkadian
is the most archaic language as a whole, though Arabic preserves the original phonological
structure better than any of the other Semitic languages. Tuareg is usually viewed as the most
conservative Berber language, as are Beja (also called Bedawye) and Saho-Afar within Cushitic.
The study of Affoasiatic as a whole is still not far advanced. Several branches, such as
Semitic and Egyptian, for example, have written records going back many millennia and have
been scientifically investigated rather thoroughly, while other Affoasiatic languages are scarcely
even known. Egyptian, whose earliest inscriptions date from about 3400 BCE, and Akkadian,
32 2. A Survey ofthe Nostratic Languages
whose earliest inscription dates from the reign of King Lugalzagesi of Uruk (roughly 2352 to
2327 BCE), were the languages of great civilizations of antiquity, while Hebrew and Arabic are
the liturgical languages of Judaism and Islam respectively. The Semitic languages exhibit great
internal consistency as a group, with fairly straightforward correspondences in morphology, with
close resemblance in their phonological systems, and with a large common vocabulary. In
contrast, the internal divisions in the other branches, except for Egyptian, of course, which is a
single language, are far more pronounced.
Proto-Afroasiatic was most likely highly inflected. It is simply not possible, however,
given the present level of knowledge, to reconstruct the morphological structure of the parent
language in detail, though some common features (such as the distinction of grammatical gender,
the existence of two verbal conjugation systems, at least one of which, namely, the prefix
conjugation, probably goes back to Proto-Afroasiatic, and a common set of pronominal stems)
have been noted. Syntactically, the classical Semitic languages, Egyptian, and the Berber
languages are VSO, the majority of the Cushitic languages are SOV, and most Chadic languages
are SVO.
2.4. Uralic-Yukaghir
As the name implies, Uralic-Yukaghir has two divisions, namely, Uralic and Yukaghir.
Yukaghir consists of a single branch, while Uralic is divided into Finno-Ugrian and Samoyed.
There are about 30 Uralic languages. The internal subgrouping of the Uralic languages is still
not fully settled. Finno-Ugrian is thought to have become separated from Samoyed some time
between 4,000 to 2,000 BCE. Yukaghir is located in northeastern Siberia, while Uralic
languages are spread across northern Eurasia, from Scandinavia and central Europe in the west to
north-central Siberia east of the Ural Mountains in the east.
Hungarian is the first Uralic language for which there are written records. Though the
first printed text did not appear until 1527, Hungarian words are cited as early as the 9th and 10th
centuries CE in Arabic and Byzantine documents. Finnish literature did not begin until 1548,
with a translation of the Bible. An Estonian translation of the Bible first appeared in 1632.
Yukaghir has no written literature.
Morphologically, the Uralic languages are underlyingly agglutinating, though many of
the modem languages, especially Estonian, which has innovated considerably, have deviated
from the original type. Proto-Uralic nominal inflection had at least three numbers (singular,
dual, and plural), two grammatical cases (accusative and genitive), and three local cases (dative,
locative, and ablative). Verb morphology distinguished two conjugational types, namely,
subjective and objective. A large number of suffixes existed, each with its own distinctive
morphological function. The original syntactic structure seems to have been SOV, and this is
fairly well preserved in the modem Samoyed and Ob-Ugric languages (Ostyak [Xanty] and
Vogul [Mansi]) and Cheremis (Mari). The basic word order in the other languages is SVO,
though, as a general rule, word order in all of the Uralic languages is rather flexible. Hungarian
stands apart, word order being determined here more by topic-comment considerations than in
the other Uralic languages, so that neither SOV nor SVO can be said to be dominant. Yukaghir
2. A Survey ofthe Nostratic Languages 33
is also basically agglutinating, though a certain amount of fusion has taken place in the verb.
There are few prefixes but numerous suffixes. Postpositions are the rule. Syntactically, the basic
word order is SOV.
2.5. Elamo-Dravidian
Dravidian has four branches: South Dravidian, South-Central Dravidian, Central
Dravidian, and North Dravidian. Though the vast majority of Dravidian languages are
concentrated in southern India, there are also pockets of Dravidian in northern India, in Pakistan,
in Nepal, in northern and eastern Sri Lanka, and on the Maidive Islands. At least 25 Dravidian
languages are spoken. There is still uncertainty over the subgrouping of several languages.
Elamite, which is now extinct, was located primarily in southwestern Iran, in the vicinity of the
Zagros mountains as well as the adjacent plains of Khuzistan and to the south along the coast of
the Persian Gulf. There is good reason to believe that Elamite once occupied all or nearly all of
the Iranian plateau. The inscriptions of the Indus Valley (Harappan) Civilization may have been
written in an early Dravidian language (cf. Fairservis 1992:14—23; but see also Zide—Zvelebil
[eds.] 1976).
The earliest Elamite text is the “Treaty of Naram-Sin”, which dates from before 2200
BCE. After that, only cuneiform texts composed in a slightly deviant form of Akkadian are
found until around 1300 BCE, when Elamite cuneiform texts begin to appear. The literature of
the Dravidian languages, especially Tamil, is enormous. In addition to Tamil, Malayalam,
Kannada, and Telugu are fully-developed literary languages, while the remaining Dravidian
languages have extensive oral traditions. The oldest Tamil literature probably dates from around
the 2nd or 3rd centuries CE.
Morphologically, the Dravidian languages are agglutinating. The basic root type was
monosyllabic, though there is some indication that an extremely small number of bisyllabic roots
may have to be reconstructed at the Proto-Dravidian level as well. This is, however, by no
means certain, and it is best at present to regard Proto-Dravidian roots as exclusively
monosyllabic. Inflectional categorization was achieved by means of suffixes added directly to
the lexical roots or to the lexical roots extended by means of derivational suffixes. Prefixes were
not used. Any vowel, long or short, could appear in a root, but only a, i, or u could appear in a
suffix. Two basic parts of speech were differentiated in Proto-Dravidian: (A) nominals, which
included nouns and adjectives, and (B) verbs. Nouns were inflected for case, person, number,
and gender. Eight cases (nominative, accusative, sociative, dative, genitive, instrumental,
locative, and ablative), two numbers (singular and plural), and two genders (animate and
inanimate) are assumed to have existed in Proto-Dravidian. There were separate first person
plural inclusive and exclusive pronouns. Verbs were inflected for tense and person. There were
two tenses (past and non-past) and two moods (modal and indicative). Indeclinables existed as a
separate stem type distinct from nouns and verbs. Syntactically, the basic word order was SOV.
Elamite was also agglutinating. Three basic parts of speech were differentiated: (A) verbs, (B)
nominals, and (C) indeclinables. The basic verbal stem form was (C)VC(V). Grammatical
34 2. A Survey ofthe Nostratic Languages
categorization was achieved by means of suffixation. In the nominal stems, case relationships
were mostly indicated by the use of postpositions. Verb morphology was extremely simple.
Word order structure was SOV.
2.6. Altaic
Altaic has three divisions: Mongolian, (Manchu-)Tungus, and (Chuvash-)Turkic.
Mongolian languages are spoken in Mongolia proper, in northern China in the so-called “Inner
Mongolian Autonomous Region”, in eastern Siberia in areas bordering on Mongolia, and
(Moghol) in Afghanistan; (Manchu-)Tungus languages are spoken in eastern Siberia and
(Manchu) in northeastern China in what was formerly known as Manchuria, but which is now
divided between the provinces of Heilongjiang, Jilin, and Liaoning and the Inner Mongolian
Autonomous Region and is populated mostly by ethnic Chinese (Han); and (Chuvash-)Turkic
languages are spoken in a large, discontinuous band, stretching from Turkey in the west, across
Central Asia and western China in the middle, and on to northeastern Siberia in the east.
The oldest Turkic texts are the Orkhon inscriptions of the Kiil-Tegin stele, written in a
type of runic and dating from 735 CE. The earliest Mongolian inscription is only five lines long
and mentions the nephew of Genghis Khan (1154-1227 CE). The longest early literary work in
Mongolian is The Secret History of the Mongols, an imperial chronicle written in Uighur script
and thought to date from around 1240 CE. Few documents in Mongolian have survived from the
period between the composition of that chronicle and the 17th century. Beginning with the 17th
century, however, a rich Buddhist and historical literature begins to appear. There is an
extensive literature in Manchu, but most of it is of relatively recent origin and consists mainly of
translations from Chinese sources.
The phonological systems of the Altaic languages are comparatively uncomplicated.
Vowel harmony is a common phonological characteristic, though, in the (Chuvash-)Turkic and
Mongolian branches, it is based on a front ~ back contrast, while, in the (Manchu-)Tungus
branch, it is based on a high ~ low contrast. It is difficult to reconstruct the common Altaic
morphological system in detail since there are deep differences among the descendant languages,
the resemblances being more pronounced in vocabulary and syntax, though there are a few
notable common elements, and all Altaic languages belong to the same type. Morphologically,
the Altaic languages are typically agglutinating in structure. Though all Altaic languages make
extensive use of suffixes, only a few of them are common to all three branches, one notable
common feature here being the use of possessive suffixes. Nouns and verbs are clearly
differentiated, though not as sharply as in Indo-European. There is a common stock of
pronominal stems, and all Altaic languages use postpositions. Syntactically, the original
structure was SOV, and this is well preserved in the modem languages, especially the Turkic
languages, which are fairly strict in this regard, while more flexibility is found in the Mongolian
and (Manchu-)Tungus languages.
2. A Survey ofthe Nostratic Languages 35
2.7. Sumerian
Sumerian, which is now extinct, was spoken in southern Iraq, extending from around
Babylon in its northernmost limits to the tip of the Persian Gulf in the south. From the time of
the earliest texts, several dialects can be distinguished.
The earliest Sumerian inscriptions date from around 3100 BCE, though the oldest
intelligible literary texts date from about 2600 BCE, and the language was probably still spoken
as late as the 3rd century BCE. The Sumerian writing system was based exclusively on the
cuneiform syllabary, which exhibits several marked stages of development over the course of
Sumerian literary history.
Though the Sumerian phonological system was simple, there are still many uncertainties
about underlying phonemic distinctions. For example, the traditional transcription shows a
voiced ~ voiceless contrast in the stops, but this may well have been a voiceless unaspirated ~
voiceless aspirated contrast instead. There is still not, even after more than a century of intensive
study, widespread agreement among experts in the field on many fundamental questions of
Sumerian grammar. Nevertheless, the overall structure is clear. Morphologically, Sumerian was
an agglutinating language. Three word classes were distinguished: (A) nouns, (B) verbs, and
(C) adjectives. Though grammatical gender in the strictest sense did not exist, nouns fell into
two classes, namely, animate and inanimate, which were only differentiated in 3rd person actor
verbal and possessive pronoun affixes and in the relative pronoun. Ten cases and two numbers
(singular and plural) were distinguished. The plural was indicated either by means of the suffix -
ene, which was used only with animate nouns, or by reduplication. In later texts, the plural could
also be indicated by the form hi-a, which was used with inanimate nouns and which was
originally an independent word meaning 'mixed, various, unspecified’, or by -me-es, which was
properly the enclitic copula with plural suffix. Sumerian differentiated between ergative and
absolutive in nouns. In pronouns, however, the patterning was that of a nominative-accusative
system. Sumerian verbs were formed by adding various prefixes and/or affixes directly to the
verbal root. Verbal constructions fell into one of two categories, namely, finite forms or non-
finite forms. Finite verbal stems distinguished three conjugational types: (A) the intransitive
conjugation, (B) the transitive hamtu conjugation, and (C) the transitive maru conjugation.
Intransitive forms were noted by means of pronominal suffixes, while transitive forms were
noted by means of either prefixes, suffixes, or both. Syntactically, the basic word order was
SOV.
2.8. Chukchi-Kamchatkan
The Chukchi-Kamchatkan family includes the following languages: Chukchi, Koryak,
Kerek, Alyutor, and Kamchadal (also called Itelmen or Itelmic). Koryak, Kerek, and Alyutor are
extremely close as a group, and these, in turn, are close to Chukchi. Kamchadal, which is now
on the verge of extinction, stands apart from the others. The Chukchi-Kamchatkan languages are
found in the extreme northeast comer of Siberia in the Chukotka and Kamchatka peninsulas.
36 2. A Survey ofthe Nostratic Languages
Though written languages were developed for Chukchi, Koryak, and Kamchadal in the 1930’s,
only Chukchi is still being used in publications and education.
Chukchi consonantism is fairly simple, there being only 14 distinct consonant phonemes,
while that of Koryak is more complex than Chukchi, and that of Kamchadal is even more
complex than either Chukchi or Koryak, containing both plain and glottalized stops, voiced and
voiceless fricatives, and three lateral phonemes. A notable characteristic of Chukchi phonology
is a system of vowel harmony based on a height contrast. In this system, vowels are classified as
either “dominant” (e, a, o) or “recessive” (z, e, u) — note that the vowel e appears in both series.
The presence of a dominant vowel in any morpheme in a word conditions the change of any
recessive vowels in the word to their corresponding dominant counterparts. A similar system is
partially preserved in Koryak.
The Chukchi-Kamchatkan languages are agglutinating. In Chukchi, however, some
fusion has occurred, particularly in the verb. Chukchi nouns distinguish singular from plural.
There are relatively few cases. Typical of all Chukchi-Kamchatkan languages is case marking of
subjects and direct objects on the basis of an ergative-absolutive system. Chukchi and Koryak
also exhibit a certain degree of incorporation, though it is not as extensively used as in Eskimo-
Aleut. Verbs clearly distinguish between transitive and intransitive, with the ergative being used
in conjunction with transitive verbs. Chukchi employs postpositions exclusively. Chukchi word
order is rather free, with OV being slightly more predominant than VO.
2.9. Gilyak
Gilyak (also called Nivkh) is usually considered to be a single language, but the two main
dialects, namely, the Amur dialect, on the one hand, and the Sakhalin (or Eastern) dialect, on the
other, are not mutually intelligible. Of the two, the Sakhalin dialect is more archaic. The
Gilyaks are found on the lower reaches of the Amur River and on Sakhalin Island. Though a
written language was developed for the Amur dialect in the 1930’s, next to nothing has appeared
in it.
Gilyak tolerates highly complex consonant clusters. Furthermore, initial consonants
undergo various alternations, which are conditioned both by the final segment of the preceding
word and by syntactical considerations. In contrast, the vowel system is fairly simple.
Gilyak morphology is typologically similar to that found in the Altaic languages. Noun
morphology is uncomplicated. Only a few cases are distinguished, including several basic
spatial cases. Singular and plural are also distinguished. A system of numeral classifiers has
been developed. In the pronouns, there are separate forms for first person dual and plural, while
the first person plural, in turn, has a distinction between inclusive (mer) and exclusive (nor)).
Verb morphology is also simple, though one notable feature worth mentioning is the wide range
of non-finite gerunds that can occur. Gilyak possesses postpositions but no prepositions. Basic
word order structure is SOV.
2. A Survey ofthe Nostratic Languages 37
2.10. Eskimo-Aleut
As the name implies, Eskimo-Aleut has two branches: Eskimo and Aleut. The Aleut
dialects are mutually intelligibile. However, this is not the case with the Eskimo dialects. Two
main Eskimo dialect groups are distinguished, namely, Yupik and Inuit (also called Inupiaq).
Yupik speakers are concentrated in southwestern Alaska, beginning at Norton Sound and
extending southward along the western and southern coasts and inland. An extremely small
enclave of Yupik speakers is found in northeastern Siberia as well. Inuit speakers are found
north of Norton Sound all the way to the northern coast of Alaska and extending eastward across
all of the northernmost parts of Canada and on into Greenland. Aleut is spoken on the Aleutian
Islands and the Commander Islands.
The Proto-Eskimo vowel system was relatively simple (Proto-Eskimo had only four
vowels: *i, *a, *u, *3 — phonemic length probably did not exist), while the consonant system
resembled that of Proto-Uralic. The phonological systems found in the Eskimo dialects are far
more complex than that of Proto-Eskimo. In contrast, Aleut phonology is less complicated.
Nouns differentiate between singular, dual, and plural. The case system is reminiscent of that
found in Chukchi-Kamchatkan, though it differs by using suffixes to indicate the plural. The
verb makes no tense distinctions but has four moods and separate transitive and intransitive
conjugations. The absolutive case is used as the subject of intransitive verbs and as the direct
object of transitive verbs, while a different case is used as the subject of transitive verbs.
Conjunctions and other particles are absent in most Eskimo dialects. A notable characteristic is
that incorporation has been developed to such an extent that whole phrases may be expressed in a
single word.
3
A Brief History of the Reconstruction of the
Proto-Indo-European Phonological System
3.1. August Schleicher
Although the comparative-historical study of the Indo-European languages did not begin
with August Schleicher, he was the first to attempt, in the first volume (1861 [4th edition 1876])
of his (in English translation) Compendium of the Comparative Grammar of the Indo-European
Languages, to reconstruct the phonological system of the Indo-European parent language.
Earlier scholars — especially Rasmus Rask and Jacob Grimm — had worked out the
fundamental sound correspondences between the various daughter languages, and the need to
reconstruct the phonological system of the parent language had been recognized as early as 1837
by Theodor Benfey, but no one prior to Schleicher had actually undertaken the task. Schleicher’s
reconstruction is as follows (1876:10):
unaspirated
voiceless voiced
aspirated
voiced
spirants
voiceless voiced
nasals
voiced
r-sound
voiced
guttural: k g gh
palatal: j
lingual: r
dental: t d dh s n
labial: P b bh V m
3.2. The Neogrammarian Period
Schleicher’s reconstruction remained the accepted standard until the late 1870’s, when a
series of brilliant discoveries were made in rapid succession (cf. Delbruck 1974:55—61;
Pedersen 1931:277—310):
1. First, there was the discovery of “The Law of Palatals’’ (Das Palatalgesetz) (cf. Collinge
1985:133—142; Pedersen 1931:277—282), which established the antiquity of the vowel
systems found in Greek and Latin and recognized, for the first time, that the Sanskrit vowel
system was an innovation in which earlier *e, *o, *3 had merged into a. This realization also
led to the reconstruction of three distinct series of tectals (gutturals) in Proto-Indo-European:
40 3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System
(1) palatals: *k, *g, *gh; (2) the so-called “pure velars”: *q, *g, *gh; and (3) labiovelars:
V. *g», *gv
h.
2. The next major discovery was that Proto-Indo-European had syllabic nasals and liquids: *m,
*n, *1, *r (cf. Pedersen 1931:283—285).
3. Following these discoveries, the system of vowel gradation (Ablaut) became clear, and the
original patterning was worked out in precise detail (cf. Brugmann 1904:138—150;
Hubschmann 1885:71 —180; Meillet 1964:153—168; Pedersen 1931:285—290; Szemerenyi
1990:86—97).
4. Finally, Vemer’s Law (cf. Collinge 1985:203—216; Pedersen 1931:282—283) explained
several annoying exceptions to the expected developments of the earlier voiceless stops in
Proto-Germanic. First, the voiceless stops became voiceless fricatives in Proto-Germanic:
*p, *t, *k, *kw > *f *6, *x, *XW- Then, at a later date, these voiceless fricatives became the
voiced fricatives *p, *6, *y, *yw respectively except (A) initially and (B), in some cases,
medially between vowels. The problem was that both voiceless and voiced fricatives
appeared medially between vowels, and the choice between voiceless fricatives, on the one
hand, and voiced fricatives, on the other hand, appeared to be entirely random. What Vemer
figured out was that the patterning was tied to the original position of the accent — the
voiceless fricatives appeared medially between vowels when the accent had originally fallen
on the contiguous preceding syllable. If the accent had originally fallen on any other
syllable, however, voiced fricatives appeared.
By the end of the nineteenth century, the phonological system reconstructed by the
Neogrammarians was widely accepted as being a fairly accurate representation of what had
existed in Proto-Indo-European. To this day, the Neogrammarian system, or slightly modified
versions thereof, commands a great deal of respect and has many defenders.
The Neogrammarian reconstruction of the Proto-Indo-European phonological system,
which was arrived at through strict adherence to the principle that sound laws admit no
exceptions, was notable for its large inventory of stops and its extremely small inventory of
fricatives. The stop system consists of a four-way contrast of (A) plain voiceless stops ~ (B)
voiceless aspirated stops ~ (C) plain voiced stops ~ (D) voiced aspirated stops. This system is
extremely close to the phonological system of Old Indie (cf., for example, Gonda 1966:9;
Mayrhofer 1972:17). Actually, there were two competing versions of the Proto-Indo-European
phonological system at this time: (A) the German system (cf. Brugmann 1904:52), which was
phonetically based, and (B) the French system (cf. Meillet 1964:82—145), which was
phonologically based (cf. Szemerenyi 1972:122). It must be pointed out that, in spite of its wide
acceptance, a small group of scholars has, from time to time, questioned the validity of the
Neogrammarian reconstruction, at least in part (for a discussion of some of the opposing views,
cf. Hopper 1977b:57—72 and Szemerenyi 1972:122—136).
Brugmann’s (1904:52) reconstruction is as follows:
3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System 4
1
Monophthongs: e 0 a i u 3
e 6 a I u
Diphthongs: ei oi ai 9i eu ou au 3U
ei oi ai eu ou au
Semivowels: i u a?)
Liquids and Nasals: 1 r m n n 0
Syllabic Liquids and Nasals: 1
o
r
o
m n
o o
n
o 3
I f m n n n
0 o 0 o o !>
Occlusives: p ph b bh (labial)
t th d dh (dental)
k kh I gh (palatal)
q qh 9 Qh (pure velar)
q
y
q“h 9
y
g
y
h (labiovelar)
Spirants: s sh z zh 1> jth 5 6h
Brugmann reconstructed five short vowels and five long vowels plus a reduced vowel, the
so-called “schwa indogermanicum” (also called “schwa primum”), written *d, which alternated
with so-called “original” long vowels. A full set of diphthongs was posited as well. Finally, the
system contained the semivowels *j and *u, a series of plain and aspirated spirants, several
nasals, and the liquids */ and *r. The nasals and liquids were unique in their ability to function
as syllabics or nonsyllabics, depending upon their environment. They were nonsyllabic (A)
when between vowels or initially before vowels, (B) when preceded by a vowel and followed by
a consonant, and (C) when preceded by a consonant and followed by a vowel. The syllabic
forms arose in early Indo-European when the stress-conditioned loss of former contiguous
vowels left them between two nonsyllabics.
It should be noted here that the Proto-Indo-European vowels were subject to various
alternations that were partially correlated with the positioning of the accent within a word. These
vowel alternations served to indicate different types of grammatical formations. The most
common alternation was the interchange between the vowels *e and *o in a given syllable.
There was also an alternation among lengthened-grade vowels, normal-grade vowels, and
reduced-grade and/or zero-grade vowels (for details, cf. Brugmann 1904:138—150; Hiibschmann
1885).
Meillet’s reconstruction differs from that of Brugmann in several important respects.
First, Meillet (1964:91—95) reconstructs only two tectal (guttural) series, namely, palatals and
labiovelars —he does not recognize a separate pure velar series.
42 3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System
Brugmann posited a separate series of voiceless aspirates for Proto-Indo-European on the
basis of an extremely small, and somewhat controversial, set of correspondences from Indo-
Iranian, Armenian, and Greek. In the other daughter languages, the voiceless aspirates and plain
voiceless stops have the same treatment, except that *kh appears to have became x in a small
number of examples in Slavic — however, these examples are better explained as borrowings
from Iranian rather than as due to regular developments in Slavic (cf. Carlton 1 991:95). As
early as 1891, in a paper read before the Societe de Linguistique de Paris, the Swiss scholar
Ferdinand de Saussure suggested that the voiceless aspirates might have had a secondary origin,
arising from earlier clusters of plain voiceless stop plus a following “coefficient sonantique”.
This idea was taken up by Meillet (1964:90—91), who pointed out the great rarity of the
voiceless aspirates, noting in particular that the dental voiceless aspirate *th often appears to be
the result of aspiration of a plain voiceless dental by a following *3: *t + *3 > *th, at least in
Sanskrit. Current thinking on the part of a great many linguists is that the series of voiceless
aspirates reconstructed by Brugmann and other Neogrammarians for the Indo-European parent
language should be removed, being secondarily derived in the individual daughter languages (cf.
Bomhard—Kerns 1994:39 for references). The main opponent of this view is Oswald
Szemerenyi, who has argued for the reinstatement of the voiceless aspirates and, consequently,
for a return to the four-stop system (plain voiceless ~ voiceless aspirated ~ plain voiced ~ voiced
aspirated) of the Neogrammarians. We will return to this problem later.
Particularly noteworthy is Meillet’s (1964:105—126) treatment of the resonants. Here,
he considers *i and *u to be the syllabic allophones of *y (Brugmann’s */) and *w (Brugmann’s
*u) respectively and classes them with the resonants, thus: *i/*y, *u/*w, *ip/*m, *n/*n, *r/*r,
*11*1, that is to say that he does not consider *i and *u to be independent phonemic entities. The
diphthongs are analyzed by Meillet as clusters of (A) vowel plus nonsyllabic resonant and (B)
nonsyllabic resonant plus vowel.
Meillet’s (1964:82—145) reconstruction may be represented as follows:
Vowels: e
e
Resonants: i/y
Occlusives: P ph
t th
k, kt
h
kw kwh
Sibilant: s
0 a
6 a
u/w m/m
0
n/n r/r 1/1
O O 0
b bh (labial)
d dh (dental)
gi gih (palatal)
g
w
g
wh (labiovelar)
3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System 43
3.3. The Twentieth Century to 1970
In 1878, the young Ferdinand de Saussure attempted to show that so-called “original”
long vowels were to be derived from earlier sequences of short vowel plus a following
“coefficient sonantique”. In 1 927, Jerzy Kurylowicz demonstrated that reflexes of de Saussure's
“coefficients sonantiques” were preserved in Hittite. On this basis, a series of consonantal
phonemes, commonly called “laryngeals”, was then posited for Proto-Indo-European.
Kurylowicz, in particular, set up four laryngeals, which he writes *Q„ *32 *&, *$4 . The
overwhelming majority of scholars currently accept some form of this theory, though there is still
no general agreement on the number of laryngeals to be reconstructed for Proto-Indo-European
or on their probable phonetic values (for details on the Laryngeal Theory, cf. Bomhard—Kerns
1994:47—56, section 2.2; Keiler 1970; Lindeman 1987; Winter [ed.] 1965). On the basis of
comparison with other Nostratic languages as well as internal considerations within Indo-
European, I would assign the following phonetic values to the laryngeals:
*9, = Glottal stop /?/
*92 = Voiceless and voiced multiply-articulated pharyngeal/laryngeal
fricatives /hh/ and /SRJ
*§3
= Voiceless and voiced multiply-articulated pharyngeal/laryngeal
fricatives /hh/ and /Tfi/
*o4 = Voiceless glottal fricative /hi
With the reduction of the gutturals to two series, the removal of the traditional voiceless
aspirates, the reanalysis of the diphthongs as clusters of vowel plus nonsyllabic resonant and
nonsyllabic resonant plus vowel, and the addition of laryngeals, we arrive at the system of
Lehmann (1952:99):
1 . Obstruents: P t k kw
b d g g
w
bh dh
g
h gwh
2. Resonants:
s
m n
w r 1
y
3. Vowels: e a 0 c
i- e- a- O' U'
4. Laryngeals: X y h 7
the removal of the traditional voiceless aspirates creates a problem from a
typological point of view. Data collected from the study of a great number of the world’s
languages have failed to turn up any systems in which voiced aspirates are added to the pair plain
voiceless stop ~ plain voiced stop unless there are also corresponding voiceless aspirated stops in
44 3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System
the system (cf. Jakobson 1971 [1957]:528; Martinet 1970:115). This is an important point,
affecting the entire structure of the traditional reconstruction. In order to rectify this imbalance,
several scholars have sought typological parallels with systems such as those found, for example,
in Javanese. In these rare systems, there is a three-way contrast, sometimes described as (A)
plain (unaspirated) voiceless - (B) voiced — (C) “voiced aspirated”: IT/ ~ ID/ ~ /Dh/. However,
this interpretation is based upon a lack of understanding of the phonetics involved. Series (C) in
such systems is, in reality, voiceless with breathy release — something like /tfi
/ — and not
“voiced aspirated” (cf. Maddieson 1984:207).
As we have seen from the preceding discussion, Lehmann’s reconstruction is
problematical from a typological point of view. However, from a structural point of view, it
presents an accurate analysis of Proto-Indo-European phonemic patterning.
Several scholars have proposed various solutions in an attempt to eliminate the problems
caused by the removal of the traditional voiceless aspirates. For example, Jerzy Kurylowicz
(1964:13) tried to show that the voiced aspirates were not phonemically voiced. However, this
interpretation seems unlikely in view of the fact that the daughter languages are nearly
unanimous in pointing to some sort of voicing in this series in the Indo-European parent
language (for correspondences and examples, cf. Meillet 1964:86—88). The main exceptions are
Tocharian and possibly Hittite (at least according to some scholars). In each case, however, it is
known that the voicing contrast was eliminated and that the reflexes found in these daughter
languages do not represent the original state. The Greek and Italic developments are a little more
complicated: in these daughter languages, the traditional voiced aspirates were devoiced, thus
becoming voiceless aspirates. Then, in Italic, the resulting voiceless aspirates became voiceless
fricatives:
bh
, dh
, g
h
, g
wl>
> p
h
, t*\ kh
, kwl> > f, 6, x, Xw
According to Eduard Prokosch (1938:39—41), on the other hand, the voiced aspirates of
traditional grammar were really the voiceless fricatives *<p, *6, *%, *%w (= *bh, *dh, *gh, *gwh
respectively). This interpretation seems unlikely for two reasons: (A) as noted above, the
daughter languages point to voicing in this series in Proto-Indo-European, and (B) the daughter
languages point to stops as the original mode of articulation and not fricatives. This latter
objection may also be raised against the theory — advocated by Alois Walde (1897:491) and
Johann Knobloch (1965:163) —that the voiced aspirates may have been the voiced fricatives */?,
*6, *y, *yw (= *bh, *dh, *gh, *gwh respectively).
Next, there is the theory put forth by Louis Hammerich (1967:839—849) that the voiced
aspirates may have been emphatics. Hammerich does not define what he means by the term
“emphatics” but implies that they are to be equated with the emphatics of Semitic grammar.
Now, in Arabic, the emphatics have been described as either uvularized (cf. Catford 1977:193) or
pharyngealized (cf. Al-Ani 1970:44—58; Catford 1977:193; Chomsky—Halle 1968:306). Such
sounds are always accompanied by backing of adjacent vowels (cf. Dolgopolsky 1977:1 —13;
Hyman 1975:49; Ladefoged 1971:63—64), as noted, for example, by Laver (1994:328):
3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System 45
Retraction of the body and root of the tongue into the pharynx in pharyngealized segments tends
both to retract the position of vocoids, and to lower them.
In Proto-Indo-European, all vowels were found in the neighborhood of the voiced aspirates, and
there is no indication that any of these sounds had different allophones here than when
contiguous with other sounds. Had the voiced aspirates been emphatics such as those found in
Arabic, they would have caused backing of contiguous vowels, and this would be reflected in the
daughter languages in some manner. However, this is not the case. If, on the other hand, the
emphatics had been ejectives such as those found in the Modem South Arabian languages, the
Semitic languages of Ethiopia, and several Eastern Neo-Aramaic dialects (such as, for instance,
Urmian Nestorian Neo-Aramaic and Kurdistani Jewish Neo-Aramaic), the question arises as to
how these sounds could have developed into the voiced aspirates needed to explain the
developments in Indo-Iranian, Greek, Italic, and Armenian.
Oswald Szemerenyi (1967:65—99) was one of the first to bring typological data to bear
on the problem of reconstructing the Proto-Indo-European phonological system. Taking note of
Jakobson’s (1971 [1957]:528) remark that:
...no language adds to the pair Itl ~ Idl a voiced aspirate Ict’l without having its voiceless
counterpart lthl...
Szemerenyi reasoned that since Proto-Indo-European had voiced aspirates, it must also have had
voiceless aspirates. Though on the surface this reasoning appears sound, it puts too much
emphasis on the typological data and too little on the data from the Indo-European daughter
languages. As mentioned above, there are very cogent reasons for removing the traditional
voiceless aspirates from Proto-Indo-European, and these reasons are not easily dismissed.
Szemerenyi also tried to show that Proto-Indo-European had only one laryngeal, namely, the
voiceless glottal fricative /h/. Szemerenyi’s (1967:96—97) reconstruction is as follows:
p t k' k kw
P
h t
h k'h kh
kwh
b d g'
g
gw
b» d» g'h
g
h
g
wh
y w
1 r m n
s h
a e 0 i u
a e 6 T u
ah eh oh ih uh)
(also the sequences
46 3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System
Szemerenyi does not include diphthongs in his reconstruction since their “phonemic status is
disputed”.
Szemerenyi’ s reconstruction is in fact typologically natural, and he has defended it
strongly right up to the present day (cf. Szemerenyi 1990:37—72). His system — as well as that
of the Neogrammarians, it may be added — is merely a projection backward in time of the Old
Indie phonological system. In certain dialects of “Disintegrating Indo-European” (specifically,
in the early development of Pre-Indo-Iranian, Pre-Greek, and Pre-Italic), such a system no doubt
existed in point of fact.
Next, there are the proposals put forth by Joseph Emonds (1972). According to Emonds,
the plain voiced stops of traditional Proto-Indo-European are to be reinterpreted as plain lax
voiceless stops, while the traditional plain voiceless stops are taken to have been tense and
aspirated:
Lehmann Emonds
p t k kw ph th kh kh'
b d g
gw
P t k kw
bh dh
g
h
g
wh = bh dh gh gh’
Emonds regards the voicing of the lax stops as common to a Central innovating area and the
appearance of voiceless stops in Germanic, Armenian, and Hittite as relics.
Similar proposals were put forth by Toby D. Griffen (1988:162—189). According to
Griffen, Proto-Indo-European had a three-member stop system, which he represents as (using the
dentals for illustration) *[d], *[t], *[th
]
(media, tenuis, aspirata). While this system was
maintained in Germanic with only minor changes, a series of sound-shifts in the other Indo-
European daughter languages completely restructured the inherited system. Thus, Germanic
emerges as the most conservative daughter language in its treatment of the Indo-European stop
system.
There are other problems with the traditional reconstruction besides the typological
difficulties caused by the removal of the voiceless aspirates. Another problem, noted in most of
the standard handbooks (cf., for example, Adrados 1975.1:108; Burrow 1973:73; Krause
1968:116—117; Lehmann 1952:109; Meillet 1964:84 and 89), is the statistically low frequency
of occurrence — perhaps total absence — of the traditional voiced labial stop *b. We may cite
Meillet’ s (1964:89) comments on this matter:
b is relatively rare; it does not occur in any important suffix nor in any ending; it is secondary in
some of the words where it is found, thus Skt. pibami “I drink”, OIr. ibim “I drink”, Lat. bibb
(with initial b through assimilation) is an ancient reduplicated form in view of Skt. pahi “drink”,
Gk. irtSi, OCS. piti “to drink”, Lat. poculum “cup”; ...other words are imitative, thus Gk.
pappapoi;, Lat. balbus, etc.; still others are limited to a few languages and give the impression of
being recent borrowings.
3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System 47
The marginal status of *b is difficult to understand from a typological viewpoint and is
totally unexplainable within the traditional framework. This problem was investigated in 1951
by the Danish scholar Holger Pedersen. Pedersen noted that, in natural languages having a
voicing contrast in stops, if there is a missing member in the labial series, it is /p/ that is missing
and not lb/. This observation led Pedersen to suggest that the traditional plain voiced stops might
originally have been plain voiceless stops, while the traditional plain voiceless stops might have
been plain voiced stops:
Brugmann Pedersen
b d g g g* = 0 t k k
p t k q q“ = b d g g
Later shifts would have changed the earlier plain voiced stops into the traditional plain voiceless
stops and the earlier plain voiceless stops into the traditional plain voiced stops. In a footnote in
his 1953 BSL article entitled “Remarques sur le consonantisme semitique”, Andre Martinet
( 1 975[ 1 953]:25 1
—252, fit. 1) objected to this “musical chairs” rearrangement:
Since there are extremely few examples of the Common Indo-European phoneme reconstructed
“analogically” as *b,
it is tempting to diagnose a gap there as well, as the late Holger Pedersen did
in Die gemeinindoeuropaischen und die vorindoeuropaischen Verschlusslaule, pp. 10-16. But,
instead of assuming, as did Pedersen, the loss of a Pre-Indo-European *p followed by a musical-
chairs [rearrangement] of mediae and tenues, one should be able to see in the series *d, *g, *g"
the result of evolution from an earlier series of glottalics, without labial representative.
This appears to be the first time that anyone had proposed reinterpreting the plain voiced
stops of traditional Proto-Indo-European as glottalics. Martinet’s observation, however, seems to
have influenced neither Gamkrelidze and Ivanov nor Hopper, each of whom arrived at the same
conclusion independently of Martinet as well as independently of each other.
In the preceding discussion, only the more well-known counterproposals were mentioned,
and only the briefest of explanations were given. More details could easily have been given.
Insights gained from typological studies, for example, could have been used to strengthen the
arguments: no phoneme stands alone; it is, rather, an integral part of the total system. Each and
every phoneme is tied to the other phonemes in the system by discrete interrelationships — to
disturb one phoneme is to disturb (at least potentially) the entire system. This is basically the
message that Jakobson and Martinet were trying to bring home. All too often, this message is
ignored. Moreover, the interrelationships are not only synchronic, they are diachronic as well.
3.4. The Glottalic Theory
Discovery — perhaps “rediscovery” would be a better term since Martinet’s insightful
remarks first appeared in 1953 — of what has come to be known as the “Glottalic Theory” came
48 3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System
from two separate sources, each working independently. On the one-hand, the British-born
American Germanist Paul J. Hopper hit upon the notion that Proto-Indo-European may have had
a series of glottalized stops while he was a student at the University of Texas and taking a course
in Kabardian from Aert Kuipers. Hopper went on about other business after graduation, waiting
five years before putting his ideas into writing. On the other hand, the Georgian Indo-
Europeanist Thomas V. Gamkrelidze, a native speaker of a language containing glottalics
(Georgian), had been investigating the typological similarities between Proto-Kartvelian and
Proto-Indo-European (cf. Gamkrelidze 1966 and 1967). It did not take Gamkrelidze long to
realize the possibility that Proto-Indo-European might also have had glottalized stops.
Gamkrelidze, in a joint article with the now-immigrated Russian Indo-Europeanist Vjaceslav V.
Ivanov, was the first to make it into print (Gamkrelidze—Ivanov 1972). Hopper might have beat
them into print had his paper on the subject not been rejected by the journal Language. He was
then obliged to search for another journal willing to publish his views, which finally happened in
1973. Then, in 1973, Gamkrelidze and Ivanov published a German language version of their
1 972 paper.
Hopper (1973:141 —166) proposed reinterpreting the plain voiced stops of traditional
Proto-Indo-European — Lehmann’s *b, *d, *g, *gw — as glottalized stops (ejectives), that is,
(*p ’), *t ’, *k\*k
'
w respectively, because the traditional plain voiced stops
show many of the typological characteristics of glottalized stops (ejectives), e.g. they are excluded
from inflectional affixes, they may not cooccur with another in the same root, etc.
Hopper also reinterpreted the traditional voiced aspirates as murmured stops.
Gamkrelidze—Ivanov (1972:15—18 and 1973:150—156) also reinterpret the traditional
plain voiced stops as ejectives, but, unlike Hopper, they reinterpret the traditional plain voiceless
stops as voiceless aspirates. They make no changes to the traditional voiced aspirates. They
point out, however, that the feature of aspiration is phonemically irrelevant in a system of this
type. In a later article, Gamkrelidze (1976:403) gives the following reconstruction:
Lehmann Gamkrelidze
b bh
P
=
P’ bh/b ph/p
d dh t
= t’ dh/d th/t
g g
h k = k’ gh/g kh/k
g
w
g
wh kw = k,y
g
y
h/gy
kW
According to Gamkrelidze (1981:607), such a system exists in several modem Eastern Armenian
dialects (however, this is challenged by Jahukyan 1990:7—8).
Many of the points discussed above by Gamkrelidze were also noted by Hopper, in
particular the root structure constraint laws (cf. Hopper 1973:158—161). Hopper also discusses
possible trajectories of the new system in various Indo-European daughter languages.
3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System 49
The system of Gamkrelidze, Hopper, and Ivanov has several clear advantages over the
traditional reconstruction of the Proto-Indo-European stop system:
1. Their reinterpretation of the traditional plain voiced stops as glottalics (ejectives) makes it
easy to account for the fact that the phoneme traditionally reconstructed as *b was highly
marked in the system, being characterized by an extremely low frequency of occurrence (if it
even existed at all). Such a low frequency distribution is extremely uncharacteristic of the
patterning of the voiced labial stop lb/ in natural languages having a voicing contrast in stops,
but it is fully characteristic of the patterning of the labial ejective /p’/ (cf. Gamkrelidze
1981:605—606; Greenberg 1970:127).
2. Not only does the reinterpretation of the traditional voiced stops as ejectives easily account
for the frequency distribution of these sounds, it also explains the fact that they were used
only very infrequently in inflectional affixes and pronouns, since this type of patterning is
characteristic of the way ejectives behave in natural languages having such sounds.
3. For the first time, the root structure constraint laws can be credibly explained. These
constraints turn out to be a simple voicing agreement rule with the corollary that two
glottalics cannot cooccur in a root. Hopper (1973:160) cites Hausa, Yucatec Mayan, and
Quechua as examples of natural languages exhibiting a similar constraint against the
cooccurrence of two glottalics. Akkadian may be added to this list as well if we take Geers’
Law to be a manifestation of such a constraint (cf. Bomhard 1984:135).
4. The so-called Germanic and Armenian “consonant shifts” (in German,
“Lautverschiebungen”), which can only be accounted for very awkwardly within the
traditional framework (cf. Emonds 1972:108—122), turn out to be mirages. Under the
revised reconstruction, these branches (perhaps along with the poorly-attested Thracian and
Phrygian as well) turn out to be relic areas.
In 1 984, Gamkrelidze and Ivanov published their monumental joint monograph entitled
HudoeeponeucKuU scmk u uhdoeeponeuubi: peKoncmpyicuun u ucmopuKo-munoAoeunecicuu
ananu3 nparabiKa u npomoKynbmypbi [Indo-European and the Indo-Europeans: A
Reconstruction and Historical-Typological Analysis of a Proto-Language and a Proto-Culture]
(an English translation of this work has just been published by Mouton de Gruyter [1995]). As is
to be expected, this massive work (2 volumes, 1 ,328 pages) contains the most detailed discussion
of the Glottalic Theory that has yet appeared. The book also contains trajectories of the revised
Proto-Indo-European phonological system in the various Indo-European daughter languages,
original proposals on the morphological structure of the Indo-European parent language, an
exhaustive treatment of the Proto-Indo-European lexicon, and a new theory about the homeland
of the Indo-Europeans. One of the most novel proposals put forth in the book is that Proto-Indo-
European may have had labialized dentals and a labialized sibilant. Gamkrelidze—Ivanov also
posit postvelars for Proto-Indo-European. Their complete reconstruction is as follows (cf.
Gamkrelidze—Ivanov 1984.1:134):
50 3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System
I. ii. III.
1.
(P’) b[h
] p[
h
]
2. t’ d[h
] t[-] t’° d[h]° t[
h]°
3. k’ g[
h
] k[h
]
k’ g[
h
]
k[h
] k’° g[
h]° k[h]° s s s°
4. q’ .
q[
h
]
Note: The consonants enclosed in the box are considered to be the most reliably reconstructed.
It is not surprising that the new look of Proto-Indo-European consonantism proposed by
Gamkrelidze—Ivanov has a distinctly Caucasian appearance about it.
Though the Glottalic Theory has attracted a good deal of attention over the past decade
and has gained widespread acceptance (cf. Salmons 1993; Schwink 1994:59—61 and 62-64;
Vennemann [ed.] 1989), it should be noted that there is still some disagreement about the make-
up of the traditional voiceless stops and voiced aspirates. Hopper (1973:141 —166), for example,
reinterprets the traditional voiced aspirates as murmured stops, making no changes to the
traditional plain voiceless stops. His system is as follows:
Lehmann Hopper
P t k kw
p t k kw
b d g
gw p’ t’ k’ k’w
b»> dh g
h gwh = b d g
gw
This differs from the views of Gamkrelidze—Ivanov, who, as noted above, regard the traditional
plain voiceless stops as voiceless aspirates, while making no changes to the traditional voiced
aspirates. Moreover, they consider the feature of aspiration to phonemically irrelevant, with the
choice between the aspirated and nonaspirated variants being mechanically determined by the
paradigmatic alternations of root morphemes.
My own view is that it is necessary to recognize several distinct stages of development
within Proto-Indo-European and that the traditional voiced aspirates were a relatively late
development — in fact, it is probably only necessary to reconstruct them in the Disintegrating
Indo-European ancestors of Indo-Iranian, Armenian, Greek, and Italic. The voiceless aspirates,
on the other hand, seem to be fairly ancient and were most likely inherited by Proto-Indo-
European from Proto-Nostratic.
For the latest period of development (“Disintegrating Indo-European”), I would
reconstruct the Proto-Indo-European phonological system as follows (this is the reconstruction
used throughout this book):
3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System 5 1
Obstruents: Pt
h
]
t [
h
]
k[h
]
kw[h]
b[h
] d[h
] g[
h
] g
W
[
h
]
(P’) p
s
k’ k’w
Laryngeals: ? h hh
?fi
Resonants: m/m
0
n/n
o
1/1
o
r/r
0
w/u
Vowels: e 0 a (i) (U)
e 6 a T u
Note: In the final stage of “Disintegrating Indo-European”, the laryngeals had been
mostly lost (see below for details).
3.5. The Prehistoric Development of the Proto-Indo-European Phonological System
At the end of Chapter 2 in my co-authored book The Nostratic Macrofamily (1994, pp.
132—140), I trace the prehistoric development of the Proto-Indo-European phonological system
from Proto-Nostratic to what I call “Disintegrating Indo-European”, which is the form of Indo-
European that may be assumed to have existed directly prior to the emergence of the non-
Anatolian Indo-European daughter languages. Basically, I recognize four stages of development:
(1) Pre-Indo-European, (2) the Phonemic Stress Stage of Proto-Indo-European, (3) the Phonemic
Pitch Stage of Proto-Indo-European, and (4) Disintegrating Indo-European. These stages are
similar to what Lehmann sets up in Chapter 15, “The Development of the PIE Phonemic
System”, of his 1952 book Proto-Indo-European Phonology.
The Proto-Nostratic phonological system may tentatively be reconstructed as follows (see
below Chapter 4, §4.9):
Stops and Affricates:
p[
h
]
t[»] c[»] ty[h] t|[h
] ky[h
] k[h
]
kw
[
h
] q[
h
]
b d 3 dv g
y
g g
w G
P’ t’ c’ t’y tf k’y k’ k’ w q’ q’ w ?
Fricatives:
52 3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System
Glides:
w y
Nasals and Liquids:
m n n*
1 lv
r rv
Vowels:
0
u~o
a
Also the sequences: iy ~ ey uy ~ oy ay ~ ay
iw ~ ew uw~ ow aw ~ aw
In Pre-Indo-European, the lateralized affricates developed into velar stops, while the
palatalized alveolars, velars, and liquids, along with the palatalized nasal, were eliminated
through depalatalization and merger with their non-palatalized counterparts. The development of
lateralized affricates into palatal, velar, or uvular stops (or affricates) is a common development
in the Northeast Caucasian languages, thus:
tj[h
]
> ki[h
]
>
voiceless voiceless
alveolar velar
lateralized lateralized
affricate affricate
tf > ki’ >
globalized globalized
alveolar velar
lateralized lateralized
affricate affricate
kx[h
]
> k[h
]
voiceless voiceless
velar velar
affricate stop
kx’ > k’
globalized globalized
velar velar
affricate stop
A similar shift may be posited for pre-Proto-Indo-European.
In the Phonemic Stress Stage of Proto-Indo-European, there was a major restructuring of
the inherited vowel system. This was caused by the development of a strong- stress accent. The
basic rule was that morphologically significant syllables were stressed, while morphologically
3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System 53
nonsignificant syllables were unstressed. Nonstressed vowels tended to be either weakened or
lost. It was during this stage of development that the syllabic liquids and nasals came into being.
Lengthened-grade vowels may also have first appeared during this stage of development.
Furthermore, I assume that it was during the Phonemic Stress Stage of Proto-Indo-European that
the dental affricates were eliminated through deaffficatization and merger with the plain dentals.
The phonological system of the Phonemic Stress Stage of Proto-Indo-European may be
reconstructed as follows:
Obstruents: p[
h
] t[»]
b d
P’ t’
c[h
] k[»] kw[h] (q[h])
3 g g
w (g)
c’ k’ k’ w (q’) (q’ w
) ?
s h h
Glides: w(/u) y(/i)
Nasals and Liquids: m/m n/n 1/1 r/r
* o o o o
Vowels: i — e
Also the sequences: iy •
iw
iy-
Tw
u~o
e ~ a
ey uy ~ oy ey ~ay oy
- ew uw ~ ow ew ~ aw ow
ey uy ~ oy ey ~ ay
ew uw ~ ow ew ~ aw
Note: *9 > *e under stress.
In the Phonemic Pitch Stage of Proto-Indo-European, pitch accent replaced stress accent,
and the accent lost its ability to weaken or eliminate the vowels of unaccented syllables, that is to
say, Proto-Indo-European changed from a “stress-accent” language to a “pitch-accent” language.
Here, the basic rule was that morphologically significant syllables were marked by high pitch,
while morphologically nonsignificant syllables were marked by low pitch. During this stage of
54 3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System
development, the pharyngeal fricatives *ti and *5’ developed into the multiply-articulated
pharyngeal/laryngeal fricatives *hh and *57) respectively. High vowels had nonphonemic low
variants when contiguous with so-called “a-coloring” laryngeals (*h, *hh and *577). Finally, it
may be assumed that it was during this stage that the postvelars merged with the plain velars. It
was probably at the end of the Phonemic Pitch Stage of Proto-Indo-European that the Anatolian
languages became separated from the main speech community.
The phonological system of the Phonemic Pitch Stage of Proto-Indo-European may be
reconstructed as follows:
Obstruents: P[
h
]
t[»] k[»] kw
[
h
]
b d g g
w
(p’) t’ k’ k’w
s
Laryngeals: ? h hh
Nasals and Liquids: m/m
0
n/n
o
1/1
o
r/r
0
Glides: w(/u) y(/i)
Vowels: e (o) a i
e (5) a I
In Disintegrating Indo-European, the voiced stops became voiced aspirates and the
laryngeals were mostly lost. First, the laryngeals *? and *h were lost initially before vowels. In
all other environments, *? and *h merged into *h. Then the laryngeals *fth and * 57? became *h.
Later, the single remaining laryngeal *h was lost initially before vowels (except in pre-Proto-
Armenian) and medially between an immediately preceding vowel and a following nonsyllabic.
This latter change caused compensatory lengthening of preceding short vowels. Also during this
stage of development — or perhaps even earlier — the velars developed palatalized allophones
before front vowels and *y. The palatovelars became phonemic in the so-called “satem”
languages but remained subphonemic in the so-called “centum” languages. Pulju (1995:43)
summarizes the developments in the Indo-European daughter languages as follows:
A three-way distinction between palatovelars, plain velars, and labiovelars is unavoidable
for PIE, though it grew out of a pre-PIE two-way distinction between plain velars and labiovelars.
Moreover, the distinction between the rare plain velars and the other series in PIE carried a low
functional load. Hence, the PIE system was usually reduced to post-PIE systems with only a two-
way distinction, always preserving the functionally most important palatovelar vs. labiovelar
difference. Plain velars merged structurally with either palatovelars or labiovelars in all languages
3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System 55
but Albanian; there is no solid basis for making these two types of merger diagnostic of a split of
PIE into so-called centum and satem dialects.
For late Disintegrating Indo-European, the Proto-Indo-European phonological system
may be reconstructed as follows (column 1 is voiceless [aspirated], column 2 is glottalized, and
column 3 is voiced [aspirated]):
1 2 3
Obstruents: Pt
h
] P’ bp] (bilabial)
t[»] t’ dp] (dental)
kv[h
]
k’y gy
[
h
]
(palatovelar)
k[h
] k’ g[
h
]
(velar)
kw[h] k’w
s
g
w
[
h
] (labiovelar)
Laryngeals: h/h
Resonants: m/m
o
n/n
o
1/1
0
r/r
0
w/u y/i
Vowels: e 0 a (0 (U) 3
e 6 a 1 u
Note: The palatovelars ( *kr[h
], *gy[h
], *k’y) are traditionally written *k, *gh, *g or *k,
*gh, *g respectively.
3.6. An Outline of the Development of the Proto-Indo-European Stop System in the Indo-
European Daughter Languages
3.6.1. Anatolian
In Anatolian, the glottalics were deglottalized, resulting in the following system, with the
three-way contrast (1) voiceless aspirated — (2) plain (unaspirated) voiceless - (3) plain voiced:
1 2 3
Labial:
Dental:
Velar:
Labiovelar
p
h
p b
th t d
kh k g
kw>> fcw
g
56 3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System
References: Bomhard 1992c; Gamkrelidze 1982; Kronasser 1956:35—96; Melchert 1984, 1992,
and 1994 (Melchert tentatively assumes that column 2 was voiced).
3.6.2. Tocharian
In Tocharian, the distinction between voiceless, glottalized, and voiced stops was
eliminated. However, Tocharian originally preserved the older contrast. While this contrast still
existed, *t’ was lost before non-syllabic resonants (cf. Van Windekens 1976—1982/1:82—83),
while *th and *d remained. The elimination of the older contrast must, therefore, have taken
place after the loss of *t
’
before non-syllabic resonants.
1 . No doubt, the first step involved the deaspiration of the voiceless aspirates.
2. This was followed by the deglottalization of *p ’, *t ’, *k and *k v and their merger with the
voiceless stops *p, *t, *k, and *kw respectively. This is shown by the fact that *mp remained
mp, while *mb became m (cf. Van Windekens 1976—1982/1:79), and by the fact that *t and
*t ’
had the same treatment before front vowels, namely, palatalization to c, while *d went its
own way under the same conditions — palatalization to *dz > ts (cf. Van Windekens 1976
—
1982/1:83—84).
3. Finally, the voiced stops were devoiced and merged with the plain voiceless stops.
I II III IV
deaspiration deglottali-
zation
devoicing
P
h
, p\ b > p, p\ b > p, b > p(w)
t
h
,
t\ d > t, f ,
d > t, d > t (c, ts)
kh
, k\ g > OD > k, g > k(9)
kwh
, k’ w
, g
w > kw
, k’ w
, g
w > kw
, g
w > k(w/u) (k, ?)
References: Adams 1988:36—42; Krause—Thomas 1960:61 —68; Van Windekens 1976
—
1982/1:76—94.
3.6.3. Germanic
Germanic is particularly important since it is one of the most conservative of the daughter
languages in its treatment of the Proto-Indo-European stop system.
In Germanic (as in Anatolian), the glottalics were first deglottalized, resulting in the
following system, with the three-way contrast (1) voiceless aspirated ~ (2) plain (unaspirated)
voiceless - (3) plain voiced:
3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System 57
1 2 3
Labial: p
h
p b
Dental: t
h t d
Velar: kh k g
Labiovelar: kwh kw
g
w
1 . The voiceless aspirates (series 1) become voiceless fricatives: *ph
,
*th
, *kwh > *f *0, *%,
*XW>
except after *s-.
2. Later, the resulting voiceless fricatives became the voiced fricatives */?, *6, *y, and *yw
respectively except (A) initially and (B) medially between vowels when the accent fell on the
contiguous preceding syllable (Vemer’s Law). *s was also changed to *z under the same
conditions.
3. *b remained initially, in gemination, and after nasals; *d initially, in gemination, and after
nasals, */, *z, and *g; and *g only in gemination and after nasals. In other positions,
however, *b, *d, *g were changed into the voiced fricatives */?, *d, *y respectively. *gw
became *y initially and *w medially (cf. Wright—Wright 1925:131).
The resulting Proto-Germanic consonant system may be reconstructed as follows:
Stops Fricatives
Labial: p b f P
Dental: t d 0 5
Velar: kg X 7
Labiovelar: kw (gw) /w (yw)
References: Bomhard 1984:84—85; Hirt 1931—1934/1:79—118; Streitberg 1963:97—153;
Krahe—Meid 1966—1967/1:79—123; Meillet 1967:116—124 and 1970:15—29; Moulton
1972:141—173; Normier 1977; Prokosch 1938:36—90; Vennemann 1984; Wright—Wright
1925:111—134.
3.6.4. Celtic
The discussion will be confined to Old Irish; only the major developments will be
discussed.
1. The dental and velar ejectives (*t‘ and *k') merge completely with the plain voiced stops (*d
and *g) in Proto-Celtic. The developments may be assumed to have been ejective > plain
58 3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System
voiceless stop (through deglottalization) > voiced stop (through voicing): *t’ > *t > *d and
*k’>*k> *g. There is no evidence in Celtic for an earlier labial ejective *p
2. Next, the voiced labiovelar *gw was delabialized and merged with *g.
3. Then, the glottalized labiovelar *k’w developed (A) into *b initially and medially after
consonants and (B) into *g initially before *u and medially between vowels and before
consonants.
4. Original *ph was lost in all of the Celtic languages: *ph > *h> *0. However, p has been
reintroduced into Old Irish through loanwords.
The consonants developed positional allophones under various conditions:
1 . Palatal allophones developed in the vicinity of original */', *1, *e, and *e.
2. Velar allophones developed in the vicinity of original *u and *u.
3. Neutral allophones were found in the vicinity of original *a, *a, *o, and *5.
In Old Irish, the palatal and velar allophones were indicated as such in writing by
surrounding vowels. Unpronounced vowels were often introduced to indicate the quality of the
following consonant, /p, t, c, b, d, g/ became the fricatives If, 0, %, v, 6, y/ (written ph, th, ch, b,
d, g) respectively initially after words that end or that formerly ended in a vowel and medially
between vowels, /m, n, 1, r/ became /p, v, X, p/ (written m, n, l, r) respectively, and Is/ became IhJ
under the same conditions, /p/ was probably a nasalized /v/, while /v, X, p/ were lax variants of
/n, 1, r/. Consonants were changed as follows initially when the preceding word ended or
formerly ended in a nasal:
1 .
/p, t, c/ became /b, d, g/ (written p, t, c)
2. /b, d/ first became /mb, nd/ and then /mm, nn/
3. If/ became /v/ (written b)
4. Ini was written before vowels
5. Is, r, 1, m, nl were doubled when they followed a proclitic vowel
Old Irish thus had the following system of consonants (the written form is given first
followed by the allophones in slashes):
p /p, b/ t It, dl c /k, g
/
ph If/ th /e/ ch /%/
f m s Is/
b lb, \l d /d, 5/ g /g, y/
m lm, pJ n In, v/ M /t)/
1 /l. A/ r It, p/
h Ibl
3.
A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System 59
References: Old Irish: Lehmann—Lehmann 1975:8—10, 15—16, 22—23, 30, 38—39, 45—47;
Lewis—Pedersen 1961:26—56; Thumeysen 1946:74—153. Welsh: Jones 1913:18—30 and
122—191.
3.6.5. Slavic
In Pre-Slavic, Pre-Baltic, Pre-Indo-Iranian, Pre-Armenian, and Pre-Albanian (the so-
called “satom” languages), the velars developed palatalized allophones when contiguous with
front vowels, apophonic *o, and *y. In the early prehistory of these branches, the labiovelars
were (perhaps only partially at first) delabialized. The newly delabialized (labio)velars merged
with the unpalatalized allophones of the velars. This change brought about the phonemicization
of the palatals since both palatalized velars (from earlier plain velars) and unpalatalized velars
(from earlier labiovelars) were now found in the vicinity of front vowels, apophonic *o, and *y.
The phonological system of the Disintegrating Indo-European antecedent of Proto-Slavic
may thus be reconstructed as follows:
1 2 3
Labial:
Dental
Palatal
Velar:
p
h p’ b
t
h
t’ d
kvh k’y gy
k» k’ g
1. The ejectives merged completely with the plain voiced stops ( *b, *d, *gy, and *g) in Proto-
Slavic. The development may be assumed to have been ejective > plain voiceless stop
(through deglottalization) > voiced stop (through voicing): *p’> *p> *b, *t' > *t > *d,*k’y
> *ky > *gy, and *k' > *k> *g. The loss of glottalization caused lengthening of preceding
contiguous short vowels (Winter’s Law).
2. Then, the voiceless aspirates were deaspirated: *ph
, *th
,
*kyh
, *kh > *p, *t, *ky, *k. Note:
there are a small number of examples in which *kl appears to become *x in Proto-Slavic.
These are best explained as foreign borrowings (cf. Carlton 1991 :95).
3. After *k, *r, */, *u, *s became *x (> *S before front vowels). A similar change is found in
Indo-Iranian.
4. *ky and *gy became *s and *z respectively. No doubt, the developments were as follows:
*ky > *ty > *ts > *s and *gy > *dy > *dz > *z.
5. *k and *g were palatalized to *c and *z respectively before front vowels and *y.
6. The syllabic resonants *m, *n, */, *r developed into *i (or *u) plus *m, *n, */, *r, thus: *m,
*n, *1, *r> *im, *in, *il, *ir.
o 9
o 9
o 9 9 9
60 3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System
7. At a later date, *k and *g were palatalized to *c and *dz respectively before *e (< *oy). *t,
*d, *n, *1, *r plus the semivowel *y became *tr, *dy,
*ny, *ly, *ry respectively, while *s
became *s under the same conditions.
8. *p, *b, *m, *v plus *y became *ply,
*b!y,
*mly,
*vly respectively.
The Common Slavic phonological system may be reconstructed thus (cf. Bidwell
1963:12):
Stops: P t k
b d g
Fricatives: (v) s S X
z z
Affricates: c ty c
dz dy
Nasals: m n ny
Liquids: r 1 ry lv
Semivowels: (v) y
References: Bidwell 1963; Bomhard 1984:80—81; Carlton 1991; Entwistle—Morison
1964:71—101; Leskien 1969:10—64; Meillet 1965:20—45, 86—102, and 126—157;
Schmalstieg 1976:31—55; Shevelov 1964; Vaillant 1950—1966/1:23—103.
3.6.6. Baltic
The Baltic developments were fairly similar to the early Slavic developments, except that
*ky and *gy became *s and *z respectively. As in Slavic, the ejectives merged completely with
the plain voiced stops. Lithuanian shows the change of *s to *s after *k and *r but not after *i
and *u as in Slavic and Indo-Iranian. The syllabic resonants *m, *n, *1, *r developed into *i (or
*u) plus *m, *n, * l,
*r, thus: *m, *n, *!, *r> *im, *in, *il, *ir. In Lithuanian, t plus j (= y) and d
plus j (=y) became ci and dzi respectively; t plus / and d plus / became kl and gl respectively.
The Common Baltic phonological system may be reconstructed as follows (cf. Stang
1966:89):
p b m
t d n
k g [0]
ky
(?) gy
(?) [ny
] (?)
s z
s (z)
r 1 y w
3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System 61
Note: Stang writes i and u fory and w respectively.
References: Bomhard 1984:81; Endzelins 1971:48—76; Senn 1957—1966:83—90; Stang
1966:88—120. Baltic developments are also discussed in Meillet 1965, Shevelov 1964, and
Vaillant 1950—1966. Information on Old Prussian phonology is given in Schmalstieg 1974:8
—
28.
3.6.7. Armenian
Armenian is particularly important because it provides the key to understanding the
developments in Pre-Indo-Iranian, Pre-Greek, and Pre-Italic. In the early prehistory of Pre-
Armenian, Pre-Indo-Iranian, Pre-Greek, and Pre-Italic, the glottalics first became plain voiceless
stops (through deglottalization), and the voiced stops then became voiced aspirates. Next, at a
later date, in Pre-Indo-Iranian, Pre-Greek, and Pre-Italic, but not in Pre-Armenian, the plain
voiceless stops became voiced stops. Armenian, however, preserves the first stage of this shift
— that is to say, the plain voiceless stops remained as such and were not changed to voiced
stops. Thus, the Classical Armenian phonological system directly attests the three-way contrast
(1) voiceless aspirated ~ (2) plain (unaspirated) voiceless ~ (3) voiced aspirated in its occlusive
system.
1 . In Pre-Armenian (as in Pre-Slavic, Pre-Baltic, Pre-Albanian, and Pre-Indo-Iranian), the velars
developed palatalized allophones when contiguous with front vowels, apophonic *o, and *y.
Next, the labiovelars were (perhaps only partially at first) delabialized. The newly
delabialized (labio)velars then merged with the unpalatalized allophones of the velars. This
change brought about the phonemicization of the palatals since both palatalized velars (from
earlier plain velars) and unpalatalized velars (from earlier labiovelars) were now found in the
vicinity of front vowels, apophonic *o, and *y.
2. Next, the glottalics were deglottalized: *p\ *t\ *k'y,
*k' > *p, *t, *ky, *k. Note: there are
no examples of *p
’
in Armenian.
3. Then, the plain voiced stops became voiced aspirates: *b, *d, *gy, *g > *bh
, *dh
,
*gyh
,
*gh .
This was a context-free development. On the interpretation of the sounds traditionally
transcribed as /b/. Id/, /g/, /j/, /)/, /z/, and /£/ as voiced aspirates, cf. Godel 1975:9—10.
4. The Pre-Armenian voiced aspirates remained except that, medially between vowels, *bh > w,
*gyh > *jh /dzh/ > z,
and *gh > z, while *gh remained initially before back vowels but was
changed to / /dzh/ before front vowels.
5. The syllabic resonants *m, *n, *1, *r developed into *a plus *m, *n, *1, *r, thus: *m, *n, *1,
*r> am, an, al, ar (ar before n).
6. / became i before consonants.
7. *w became g or v.
8. *s became h or 0 initially before vowels.
62 3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System
9. As in Indo-Iranian, Slavic, and Lithuanian, *s became s after r.
10. *j&and *ks became c.
The Armenian developments may be summarized as follows:
I II III IV
palatalization deglottalization development Classical
of velars and of ejectives of voiced Armenian
delabialization aspirates (traditional
of labiovelars transcription)
P
h ,(p’),b > p
h
, p, b > ph,
p, bh > h (w, 0), b (w)
th
, t\ d > t
h
,
t, d > th
,
t, dh > t
h
, t, d
kvh
,
k’y, gy > kyh
,
ky, gy > kyh
,
kv, gyh > s, c,j (z)
kh
, k’, g > kh
,
k, g > kh
,
k, g
h > kh
,
k, g 0, z)
At a later date, earlier clusters of voiceless stop plus laryngeal developed as follows:
pH > p
h
tH > '
t
h
kH > x
In Armenian, some of the reflexes of the original voiceless aspirates merged with the
reflexes of the new voiceless aspirates. This happened in the case of certain onomatopoeic terms,
where, for example, original *ph and appear as pP and x respectively as if they were from
earlier *pH and *kH. In like manner, the aspiration of the original voiceless aspirates was
preserved in Armenian after initial *s- (a similar development took place in Indo-Iranian).
Finally, *th and *tH have mostly merged in Armenian, though earlier *rth has become rd, while
*rtH has become rth (cf. Meillet 1967:104).
Armenian is the only non-Anatolian daughter language that has preserved a trace of a
consonantal laryngeal. Kurylowicz’s *o2 (Sturtevant’s *x) appears as h initially before full-grade
vowels in a small number of words (for examples, cf. Bomhard 1984:82—83). The Armenian
material is not without problems, however, since initial h is unstable. This means that the same
word sometimes has two alternates, one with h- and one without. Furthermore, h- is sometimes
missing where the Hittite cognate unequivocally points to original *o2 such as in Armenian
arcath “silver” beside Hittite harkis “white” (other cognates include Greek ctpyo; “bright, white”
and Latin argentum “silver”). Consequently, the Armenian material, though extremely valuable,
must be used with caution.
References: Bomhard 1984:81 —84 and 1986:71 —72; Godel 1975:9—10 and 61 —91; Meillet
1936:23—40.
3.
A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System 63
3.6.8. Indo-Iranian
The changes leading from Proto-Indo-European to Proto-Indo-Iranian are particularly
complicated. The first three steps are identical to what is assumed to have happened in Pre-
Armenian (and also Pre-Greek and Pre-Italic).
1 . In Pre-Indo-Iranian (as in Pre-Slavic, Pre-Baltic, Pre-Albanian, and Pre-Armenian), the velars
developed palatalized allophones when contiguous with front vowels, apophonic *o, and *y.
Next, the labiovelars were (perhaps only partially at first) delabialized. The newly
delabialized (labio)velars then merged with the unpalatalized allophones of the velars. This
change brought about the phonemicization of the palatals since both palatalized velars (from
earlier plain velars) and unpalatalized velars (from earlier labiovelars) were now found in the
vicinity of front vowels, apophonic *o, and *y.
2. Next, the glottalics were deglottalized: *p ’, */’, *k’y,
*k’> *p, *t, *kr, *k.
3. Then, the plain voiced stops became voiced aspirates: *b, *d, *gy, *g > *bh
, *dh
,
*gyh
,
*gh
.
This was a context-free development. This was the stage reached by Armenian.
4. When two voiced aspirates cooccurred in a root, the first was deaspirated (Grassmann’s
Law).
5. In Pre-Indo-Iranian (and in Pre-Greek and Pre-Italic), but unlike Pre-Armenian, the plain
(unaspirated) voiceless stops (from earlier glottalics) developed into plain (unaspirated)
voiced stops: *p, *t, *ky,
*k> *b, *d, *gy,
*g. This was a context-free development.
6. The imbalance caused by the voicing of the plain voiceless stops caused the voiceless
aspirates to be partially deaspirated. The deaspiration took place everywhere except (A) after
initial *s- and (B) in onomatopoeia (cf. Bomhard 1986:73). However, aspiration was lost in
the clusters *sph~, *sth
-, *skb- when an earlier laryngeal followed in the stem or when another
aspirated stop followed in the stem: *(s)theHy- > *(s)teHy- > *(s)tay- (cf. Sanskrit stayati
“he, she steals”, stayu-h, tayu-h “thief, robber”); *(s)th eHi- > *(s)teHi- > *(s)tai- (cf. Sanskrit
stena-h “thief’, steya-h “theft, robbery”). *(s)thenH- > *(s)tenH- > *(s)ten- (cf. Sanskrit
stanati “resounds, reverberates”). Note: apparent exceptions to these rules appear to be due
to the generalization of variant forms of the stems in question, or, in some cases, the
exceptions are due to borrowing.
7. Additional voiceless aspirates arose from earlier clusters of voiceless stop plus laryngeal:
*pH, *tH, *kH> *ph
,
*th
,
*kh respectively.
8. *s was changed into *s after *k, *r, */', *u. A similar change is also found in Slavic.
9. The palatals *ky,
*gy,
*gyh were affricated to *ts, *dz, *dzh respectively (cf. Burrow
1974:74).
10. Following that, the velars *k, *g, *gh were palatalized to *ky,
*gy,
*gyh respectively before
*e, *T, and *y (cf. Mayrhofer 1972:24). Note: *kk was not palatalized.
The developments outlined above may be summarized as follows:
64 3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System
I
palatalization
of velars and
delabialization
of labiovelars
II
deglottalization
of ejectives
III
development
of voiced
aspirates
Labial: p\ p\ b > p
h
, p, b > p
h
, p, bh >
Dental: th
, t\ d > th
,
t, d > th
,
t, dh >
Palatal: kyh
,
k’y, gy > kyh, ky, gy > kyh, ky, gyh >
Velar: kh
,
k’, g > kh
, k, g > kh
,
k, g
h >
IV V VI VII
voicing of partial palatals partial
plain (unaspirated) deaspiration become palatalization
voiced stops of voiceless
aspirates
affricates of velars
p
h
, b, bh > p, p
h
,
b, bh > p, p
h
,
b, bh > p, p
h
, b, bh
t
h
,
d, dh > t, t
h
,
d, dh > t, th
,
d, dh > t, t
h
, d, dh
kyh
, gy, g
yh > ky, kyh
, gy, g
yt1
> ts, -, dz, dzh > ts, -, dz, dzh
kh
, g, g
h > k, kh
, g, g
h > k, kh
, g,
gh > ky, -, gy,
gyh
(before *e, *1, and *y)
k, kh
, g, g
h
(elsewhere)
In Avestan and Old Persian, the plain and aspirated voiced stops merged. The voiceless
aspirates became fricatives except after a sibilant, where they were deaspirated. The plain
voiceless stops developed into fricatives when immediately followed by a consonant unless a
sibilant preceded.
In Old Indie (Vedic and Classical Sanskrit), *dz and *g* merged into j, and *dzh and *gA‘
merged into h.
The Old Indie phonological system was as follows (cf. Mayrhofer 1972:17; Gonda
1968:9—10):
Velar: k kh g gh n
Palatal: c ch j jh n
Retroflex: t th d dh n
Dental: t th d dh n
Labial: P ph b bh m
3.
A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System 65
Semivowels: y r 1 v
Sibilants: s s s
Aspirate: h
Visarga: h
Anusvara: m
Once the above system was established, it remained remarkably stable for well over three
thousand years — the phonological systems of the modem Indo-Aryan languages remain to this
day similar in structure to the phonological system of Old Indie (cf. Bloch 1965:96—97; see
Ghatage 1962 for examples). This fact raises an interesting question about the phonological
system reconstructed for the Indo-European parent language by the Neogrammarians: The
Neogrammarian reconstruction is extremely close to the phonological system of Old Indie. If the
Neogrammarian system were in fact an accurate representation of what had existed in Proto-
Indo-European, one may legitimately ask why it, too, did not remain stable in the Indo-European
daughter languages. It thus seems to be a fair conclusion that the Proto-Indo-European
phonological system was not in fact similar to that of Old Indie and that the Old Indie system
was an innovation.
References: Bomhard 1986:77—80; Burrow 1973:67—102; Edgerton 1946; Gonda 1968:9—19;
Johnson 1917:67—89; Kent 1953:29—42; Mayrhofer 1972:20—29; Thumb 1958
—
1959.1/1:276—315.
3.6.9. Greek
Many of the early Pre-Greek developments were similar to what is assumed to have
happened in Pre-Armenian and Pre-Indo-Iranian. However, Greek is a so-called “centum”
language, which means that it initially preserved the original contrast between velars and
labiovelars. Unlike Pre-Armenian and Pre-Indo-Iranian, but similar to Italic, Greek changed the
voiced aspirates into voiceless aspirates.
1 . First, the glottalics were deglottalized: *p ’, *t ’, *k ’, *k v > *p, *t, *k,*kw.
2. Then, the plain voiced stops became voiced aspirates: *b, *d, *g, *gw > *bh
, *dh
,
*gh
,
*gwh .
This was a context-free development.
3. As in Indo-Iranian, when two voiced aspirates cooccurred in a root, the first was deaspirated
(Grassmann’s Law).
4. In Pre-Greek (and in Pre-Indo-Iranian and Pre-Italic), but unlike Pre-Armenian, the plain
(unaspirated) voiceless stops (from earlier glottalics) developed into plain (unaspirated)
voiced stops: *p, *t, *k, *kw > *b, *d, *g, *gw. This was a context-free development.
5. The imbalance caused by the voicing of the plain voiceless stops caused the voiceless
aspirates to be partially deaspirated. Note: Emonds (1970:120) also assumes that some of
the examples of voiceless aspirates found in Indo-Iranian, Greek, and Armenian are derived
from the original voiceless aspirates, that is to say, they failed to undergo the expected
66 3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System
deaspiration. Edmonds accounts for this by “reintroduction from a dialect that did not
undergo Z2 [deaspiration]”. In other words, he sees them as borrowings. While this may be
true in some cases, I prefer to see them mostly as the natural result of developments within
these branches themselves.
6. Additional voiceless aspirates arose from earlier clusters of voiceless stop plus laryngeal:
*pH, *tH, *kH> *ph
, *th
, *kP respectively.
7. At a later date, the voiced aspirates were devoiced — the unaspirated allophones became
plain (unaspirated) voiceless stops, and the aspirated allophones became voiceless aspirates:
*b ~ *bh
,
*d ~ *dh
,
*g ~ *gh
,
*gw ~ *gwh > *p ~ *ph
, *t ~ *th
,
*k ~ *&, *kw ~ *kwh. The
newly-formed plain and aspirated voiceless stops merged completely with the previously-
existing plain and aspirated voiceless stops. As a typological parallel, it may be noted that
similar devoicing of earlier voiced aspirates took place in Romany (cf. Meillet 1 967: 1 00).
The Greek developments may be summarized as follows:
I II ill
deglottalization development voicing of
of ejectives of voiced plain (unaspirated)
aspirates voiced stops
Labial: p
h
, P, b > p
h
, p, bh > p
h
, b, bh >
Dental: th
, t, d > t
h
, t, dh > th, d, dh >
Velar: kh
, k, g > kh
, k, g
h > kh
, g,
gh >
Labiovelar: kwh kw
g
w > kwh
? kw
, g
wh > kwh gw gwh >
IV V
partial devoicing
deaspiration of voiced
of voiceless
aspirates
aspirates
p, p
h
, b, bh > P, P
h
, b
t, t
h
, d, dh > t, t
h
, d
k, kh
, g,
gh > k, kh
, g
kw
, kwh
, g
w
, g
wh > kw
,
kwh
,
g'
The labiovelars were eliminated in Greek in historic times. The process of elimination
probably occurred in several stages. Since the labiovelars mostly remain in Mycenaean, their
elimination can reasonably be placed between the Mycenaean period and the beginning of the
alphabetic period, that is, between about 1400—900 BCE (cf. Lejeune 1972:43—53). The
developments were as follows:
3.
A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System 67
1. Before or after u, kw
,
kwh
,
and g
w were delabialized, and the resulting phonemes merged with
k, kh
,
and g (written k, x, and y) respectively.
2. Next, k", kwh
, and gw were palatalized before e and f. The resulting sounds then merged with
t, t
h
,
and d (written t, 0, and 6) respectively in the majority of Greek dialects.
3. Finally, all remaining labiovelars became labials: kw
,
kwh
,
and g
w > p,^, and b (written n, ip,
and P).
*m, *n, *1, *r generally remained in Greek except that final *m became -n (written v) as
in Anatolian, Germanic, Celtic, and probably Baltic and Slavic. *m, *n, *1, *r developed into ap,
av, aX, ap respectively before vowels. Before consonants, *m and *n merged into a, while *1 and
*r became ajJXa and ap/pa respectively.
*s, *y, and were lost medially between vowels. Initially before vowels, *s became h
(written '), *y became either h or z (written '
and £ respectively), while was lost in Attic-Ionic.
*s remained when final and when before or after voiceless stops.
References: Bomhard 1984:89—91; Buck 1933:78—161 and 1955:17—84; Grammont 1948;
Lejeune 1972; Meillet—Vendryes 1968:40—68; Palmer 1980:223—241; Schwyzer 1953:169
—
371.
3.6.10. Italic
Many of the early Pre-Italic developments were similar to what is assumed to have
happened in Pre-Greek. Like Greek, Italic belonged to the so-called “centum” languages, which
means that it initially preserved the original contrast between velars and labiovelars.
1 . First, the glottalics were deglottalized: *p ’, *t ’, *k *k v > *p, *t, *k, *kw.
2. Then, the plain voiced stops became voiced aspirates: *b, *d, *g, *gw > *bh
, *dh
,
*gh
,
*gwh .
This was a context-free development. Note: Grassmann’s Law did not operate in Italic.
3. In Pre-Italic (and in Pre-Indo-Iranian and Pre-Greek), but unlike Pre-Armenian, the plain
(unaspirated) voiceless stops (from earlier glottalics) developed into plain (unaspirated)
voiced stops: *p, *t, *k, *kw > *b, *d, *g, *gw. This was a context-free development.
4. The imbalance caused by the voicing of the plain voiceless stops caused the voiceless
aspirates to be partially deaspirated.
5. Additional voiceless aspirates arose from earlier clusters of voiceless stop plus laryngeal:
*pH, *tH, *kH> *ph
,
*th
, *kh respectively.
6. At a later date, the voiced aspirates were devoiced: *bh
,
*dh
, *gh
,
*gwh > *ph
,
*tb
, *kh
,
*kwh .
The newly-formed plain and aspirated voiceless stops merged completely with the
previously-existing aspirated voiceless stops.
7. Finally, the voiceless aspirates (from earlier voiced aspirates as well as from clusters of
voiceless stop plus laryngeal) became voiceless fricatives.
68 3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System
The Italic developments may be summarized as follows:
I ii III
deglottalization development voicing of
of ejectives of voiced plain (unaspirated)
aspirates voiced stops
Labial: p
h
, p, b > p
h
, p, bh > p
h
, b, bh >
Dental: th
, t, d > th
,
t, dh > th
, d, dh >
Velar: kh
,
k, g > kh
, k, g
h > kh
, g, g
h >
Labiovelar: kwh
,
kw
, g
w > kwh
, kw
, g
wh > J^wh gw gwh >
IV V VI
partial devoicing voiceless aspirates
deaspiration of voiced become voiceless
of voiceless aspirates fricatives
aspirates
p, p
h
,
b, bh > P, P
h
, b > p, f,b
t, t
h
,
d, dh > t, th
, d > t,6,d
k, kh
, g, g» > k, kh
, g > k, X,g
kw
,
kwh
, g
w
, g
w^ > kw, lc
wh
>
gw > kw
, X", g
w
In Oscan and Umbrian, *f *8, and *x
w merged into f while *x became h. In Latin, the
merger of *f *6, and *x
w into /only took place initially. "“/became b medially; *8 became (A) d
medially but (B) b before or after r, before /, or after u; and *xw became (A) v between vowels,
(B) gu after n, but (C) g before consonants or u. *x became (A) h initially in Latin but (B) g
when before or after consonants and (C)/when before u.
*m, *n, *1, *r were preserved. *y remained initially in Latin (written /) but was lost
between vowels, while *w (written v) was unchanged. *m, *n, *1, *r developed into a plus m, n,
/, r respectively before vowels. Elsewhere, *1 and *r became ol and or respectively, and *m and
*n became em and en respectively.
*s generally remained, though it was voiced to z between vowels. The z was retained in
Oscan but was changed to r in Umbrian and Latin.
References: Bomhard 1984:88—89; Buck 1933:78—161; Leumann 1963:55—180; Lindsay
1894:219—315; Meillet—Vendryes 1968:69—93; Palmer 1954:211—232.
3.
A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System 69
3.6.11. Albanian
Though the Albanian developments are still not completely understood, some tentative
conclusions are possible.
1 . In Pre-Albanian (as in Pre-Slavic, Pre-Baltic, Pre-Indo-Iranian, and Pre-Armenian), the velars
developed palatalized allophones when contiguous with front vowels, apophonic *o, and *y.
In the early prehistory of these branches, the labiovelars were (perhaps only partially at first)
delabialized. The newly delabialized (labio)velars merged with the unpalatalized allophones
of the velars. This change brought about the phonemicization of the palatals since both
palatalized velars (from earlier plain velars) and unpalatalized velars (from earlier
labiovelars) were now found in the vicinity of front vowels, apophonic *o, and *y. Note:
Albanian provides the strongest evidence for the existence of three distinct guttural series in
its Disintegrating Indo-European ancestor: the labiovelars are distinguished from the plain
velars by the fact that the former are palatalized to sibilants before front vowels, while the
latter are not (cf. Mann 1977:24—25 and 34—35).
2. The ejectives are deglottalized: *p ’, *t ’, *k \ *k ’, *k
'
w > *p, *t, *k*, *k, *kw.
3. Then, the palatals became palatalized alveolars: *ksh
, *ky, *gy > *tyh
,
*dr. These later
developed into voiceless and voiced interdental fricatives.
4. Next, the plain voiceless stops (from earlier ejectives) became plain voiced stops: *p, *t, *k*,
*k, *kw > *b, *d, *gy, *g, *gw. In general, the developments of the plain voiced stops and the
former ejectives are identical, though initial *gy (> *dy) appears as d, while initial *k’y
appears as dh (cf. Mann 1977:33). This seems to indicate that the labial and dental stops may
have developed ahead of and slightly differently from the palatal, velar, and labiovelar
members.
5. Finally, the voiceless aspirates are deaspirated: *ph
,
*th
,
*ryA
,
*kP > *p, *t, *k.
The Albanian developments may be summarized as follows:
I II III
palatalization deglottalization palatals
of velars and of ejectives become
delabialization palatalized
of labiovelars alveolars
Labial: p
h
, (p’), b > P
h
, P, b > P
h
, p, b >
Dental: t
h
,
t\ d > t
h
, t, d > t
h
, t, d >
Palatal: kyh
,
k’ y
, g
y > kyh, ky, gy > t
yh
,
ty, dy >
Velar: kh
,
k’, g > kh
, k, g > kh
, k, g >
Labiovelar: kwh
, k’ w
, g
w > kwh, kw;
gw > fcwh, k*;
gw >
70 3. A BriefHistory ofthe Reconstruction ofthe PIE Phonological System
IV
voicing of
voiceless
stops
p
h,b >
t
h
, d >
tyt>, dy„ dy2
>
kh
,g >
kwh
, g
w >
V
deaspiration
of voiceless
aspirates
p, b >
t,d >
tv, dv„ dv2 >
k, g >
kw
, g
w >
VI
Albanian
p,b
t, d
th, d (dh), dh
k (q), g (gj)
k (q, s), g (gj, z)
References: Bomhard 1984:92; Huld 1984:138—157; Mann 1977:24—25 and 32—36.
4
A Sketch of the Phonological Systems
of the Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages
4.1. Kartvelian (South Caucasian)
Proto-Kartvelian had a rich system of stops, affricates, and fricatives. Each stop and
affricate series was characterized by the three-way contrast (1) voiceless (aspirated), (2) voiced,
and (3) glottalized. Thomas V. Gamkrelidze and Givi Macavariani (1982) reconstruct three
separate series of affricates and fricatives, namely, a front series, a mid series, and a back series,
but Karl Horst Schmidt (1962) reconstructs only two. It is the views of Gamkrelidze and
Macavariani that are followed in this book. Klimov (1964) also follows Gamkrelidze and
Macavariani.
Proto-Kartvelian also had a series of resonants, which could function as syllables as well
as nonsyllabics, depending upon their environment. The patterning is strikingly similar to what
is assumed to have existed in Proto-Indo-European.
Three short vowels and three long vowels are usually reconstructed for Proto-Kartvelian.
As in Proto-Indo-European, the vowels underwent various ablaut changes. These alternations
served to indicate different types of grammatical formations. The most common alternation was
the interchange between the vowels *e and *a in a given syllable. There was also an alternation
among lengthened-grade vowels, normal-grade vowels, and reduced- and/or zero-grade vowels.
The Proto-Kartvelian phonological system may be reconstructed as follows (cf.
Gamkrelidze 1967:709):
Obstruents: Pt
h
]
t[»] c[»] c[h
L c[h
]
k[h
] q[
h
]
b d 3 3i 3 g G
P’ t’ c’ C’l c’ k’ q’
s Sl s X
z Zl (z) y
Resonants: m/m n/n 1/1 r/r y/i w/u
Vowels: e, e 0,6 a, a
72 4. The Phonological Systems ofthe Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages
The Kartvelian languages are all highly inflected; Georgian, for example, has six basic
grammatical cases plus eleven secondary cases. Nominal declension distinguishes between
ergative and absolutive case forms; the ergative case is used to mark the subject of transitive
verbs, while the absolutive case is used to mark direct objects and the subject of intransitive
verbs. It is the dative case, however, that is used to mark the subject of so-called “inverted
verbs”. There are several other departures from canonical ergative-type constructions, so much
so in Mingrelian, for instance, that this language no longer possesses any true ergative features.
Adjectives normally precede the nouns they modify. Postpositions are the rule. Verb
morphology is particularly complicated — for example, Deeters lists eleven functional elements
that may be arrayed around a given verb root, though they may not all appear simultaneously.
Syntactically, the predominant word order is SOV, though SVO is not uncommon.
4.2. Afroasiatic
The Afroasiatic family consists of six separate branches: Semitic, Berber, Egyptian (now
extinct), Cushitic, Omotic, and Chadic. Some languages (Akkadian and Egyptian, for example)
have literary traditions going back many millennia, while some contemporary languages
(especially Chadic languages) are barely known, let alone documented.
There are still many uncertainties regarding the reconstruction of the Proto-Afroasiatic
phonological system, the sibilants being particularly troublesome. In general, I have followed
the views of Andre Martinet (1975[1953]:248—61), David Cohen (1968: 1299—1306), and Igor
M. Diakonoff (1992:5—35), though I have made minor adjustments to their proposals (for
example, the addition of a series of palatalized velars) on the basis of my own research.
One of the most notable characteristics of Afroasiatic consonantism is the system of
triads found in the stops and affricates — each series (except the lateralized affricates) is
composed of three contrasting members: (1) voiceless (aspirated), (2) voiced, and (3) globalized
(that is, ejectives — these are the so-called “emphatics” of Semitic grammar). The lateralized
affricate series probably lacked a voiced member. Another significant characteristic is the
presence of a glottal stop, a voiceless laryngeal fricative, and voiced and voiceless pharyngeal
fricatives. Proto-Afroasiatic may also have had a series of postvelars.
According to Diakonoff (1975:134—36), Proto-Afroasiatic had a vertical vowel system
of *3 and *a as well as a series of syllabic resonants. In my opinion, the evidence from the non-
Semitic branches of Afroasiatic does not appear to support the reconstruction of syllabic
resonants for Proto-Afroasiatic. Diakonoff does not reconstruct long vowels for Proto-
Afroasiatic (though see now Ehret 1995:55—57).
The Proto-Afroasiatic phonological system may tentatively be reconstructed as follows
(cf. Diakonoff 1992:5—8, especially p. 6; a slightly different reconstruction is proposed in Ehret
1995 —neither Diakonoff nor Ehret posit palatalized velars):
4. The Phonological System ofthe Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages 73
Stops and Affricates: Pt
h
] tf] cm ty
[
h
] tj[h
]
ky[»] m kw[h]
(q[
h
J)
b d 3 dv gy
g g
W (G)
P’ t’ c’ t’y tj’ k’y k’ k’ w (q’)
Fricatives: f s sv
Glides: w
Nasals and Liquids: m n
Vowels:
y
r
3
a
In their new Hamito-Semitic Etymological Dictionary, Orel—Stolbova (1995:xvi)
reconstruct a slightly reduced phonological system for Proto-Affoasiatic. They posit neither
palatalized nor labialized velars, while they substitute the affricates *c, *c (= *c’), *J for my
*ty
[
h
], *t’y, *dy respectively. On the other hand, they posit a full set of vowels (Orel—Stolbova
1995:xxi), as does Ehret (1995:55—57) — though, unlike Orel—Stolbova, Ehret posits
phonemic long vowels as well:
Orel—Stolbova i U u
e o
a
Ehret i, ii u, uu
e, ee o, oo
a, aa
Proto-Afroasiatic was most likely highly inflected. It is simply not possible, however,
given the present level of knowledge, to reconstruct the morphological structure of the parent
language in detail, though some common features (such as the distinction of grammatical gender
and the existence of two verbal conjugational systems, at least one of which [the prefix
conjugation] probably goes back to Proto-Afroasiatic) have been noted. Syntactically, the
classical Semitic languages, Egyptian, and the Berber languages are VSO, the majority of
Cushitic languages are SOV, and most Chadic languages are SVO. Good surveys of Afroasiatic
morphology are found in Diakonoff 1988 and David Cohen (ed.) 1988.
74 4. The Phonological Systems ofthe Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages
4.3. Root Structure Patterning in Afroasiatic
It is necessary to be quite clear concerning my assumptions regarding root structure
patterning in Proto-Afroasiatic, because the assumptions I have made here are critical to the
viability of the lexical comparisons I have made between Afroasiatic and the other language
families considered in this book. My assumptions are as follows (cf. Diakonoff 1975; Ehret
1989b: 109—202 and 1995:15—54):
1 . There were no initial vowels in the earliest form of Proto-Afroasiatic. Therefore every
root began with a consonant.
2. Originally, there were no initial consonant clusters either. Consequently, every root
began with one and only one consonant.
3. Two basic syllable types existed: (A) *CV and (B) *CVC, where C = any non-syllabic
and V = any vowel. Permissible root forms coincided with these two syllable types.
4. A verb stem could either be identical with a root or it could consist of a root plus a single
derivational morpheme added as a suffix to the root: *CVC-VC-. Any consonant could
serve as a suffix.
5. Primary (that is, non-derivational) noun stems displayed similar patterning, though,
unlike verb stems, they were originally characterized by stable vocalism.
There were three fundamental stem types in Proto-Afroasiatic: (A) verb stems, (B) noun
and adjective stems, and (C) pronoun and indeclinable stems. Only pronoun and indeclinable
stems could end in a vowel. Verb and noun stems, however, had to end in a consonant (it may be
noted that this is the stem patterning posited by Ehret [1980:45—47] for Proto-Southern
Cushitic).
As in Proto-Indo-European, the consonants carried the basic meaning of the stem, while
the vowels were used as modifiers: that is to say that grammatical categorization was partially
achieved by means of fixed vocalic patterning, at least in the verb stems.
It is thus now certain beyond any reasonable doubt that the third consonantal element of
the Proto-Semitic root, be it infix or suffix, was simply not a part of the root, in the
overwhelming majority of cases, at the Proto-Afroasiatic level and that the underlying basic root
structure patterning was biconsonantal.
4.4. Uralic-Yukaghir
Vowel harmony and consonant harmony are two notable phonological characteristics of
the Uralic languages. In those Uralic languages exhibiting vowel harmony, the system is
generally based upon a front ~ back contrast, most often with the vowels i and e being neutral in
4. The Phonological Systems ofthe Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages 75
regards to this contrast and thus able to combine freely with either front or back vowels, though
absolute consistency is unusual. The vowel harmony systems found in the Uralic languages thus
differ in this respect from those found in the Altaic languages, especially Turkic and Mongolian,
where more consistent systems are the rule. As an active phonological feature, consonant
harmony is not as widespread as vowel harmony, being found exclusively in Balto-Finnic and
Lapp (though there are traces in Mordvin and Cheremis [Mari]). Consonant harmony is based
upon a contrast, in different forms of the same word, between (1) medial voiceless geminated
stops at the beginning of an open syllable versus medial single voiceless stops at the beginning of
a closed syllable on the one hand and between (2) medial single voiceless stops at the beginning
of an open syllable versus medial voiced stops, fricatives, or zero at the beginning of a closed
syllable on the other hand. Diachronically, the system of consonant harmony may be viewed as a
weakening of the phonetic value of a consonant before closed syllables. This resulted in a
correlation of so-called “strong-grade” variants with open syllables and so-called “weak-grade”
variants with closed syllables. Even though consonant harmony began as a purely phonetic
process, however, it has since become morphologized in those languages where it developed, and
a certain amount of leveling has also taken place. In Estonian, in particular, so many diachronic
changes have taken place that there is no longer a readily discernible correlation between strong-
grade and open syllables nor between weak-grade and closed syllables.
There are still many uncertainties regarding the reconstruction of the Proto-Uralic vowels.
The system followed in this book for Proto-Uralic is based upon that proposed by Decsy
(1990:22). In the Proto-Finno-Ugrian examples cited in this book, however, the vowels are
generally given in accordance with Redei (1986—1988). Decsy's system is as follows:
i u
e o
a a
Though front rounded and back (or central) unrounded vowels are typical characteristics of most
Uralic languages, they are innovations and are not to be reconstructed for Proto-Nostratic.
There is broad agreement among Uralic scholars concerning Proto-Uralic consonantism.
Though most consonants could appear both initially and medially, a small number were found
only medially. Word initially, Proto-Uralic had the following sounds (cf. Collinder 1965:75
—
83): *p-, *t-, *k-, *c-, *tr- (traditional *c-), *s-, *sy- (traditional *s-), *8y- (traditional *8'-), *y-,
*w-, */-, *ly- (traditional */'-), *r-, *ny- (traditional *h-), *«-, and *m-. Medially between vowels,
the following sounds were found (cf. Collinder 1965:83—92): *-p-, *-t-, *-k-, *-c-, *-t> *-s-, *-
sy-, *-s-, *-<5-, *-8y-, *-y~, *-w~, *-l>
'-, *-r-, *-tjk-, *-T)t-, *-nt-, *-ny-, *-m-,
*-mt-, and *-mp-. Note: In my opinion, traditional *8 and *8' are to be interpreted as the
voiceless and voiceless palatalized dental lateral affricates *ti and *tiy respectively — to
maintain continuity with the traditional reconstruction, they are written *5 and *8y respectively in
this book.
76 4. The Phonological Systems ofthe Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages
The Proto-Uralic consonant system may be reconstructed as follows (cf. Austerlitz
1968:1375—77; Decsy 1990:25; for sound correspondences, cf. Collinder 1965:75—103):
p t c tv k
8 5y
y
s s sv
m n nv g
r 1 lv
w y
A slightly different system is reconstructed for Proto-Uralic by Sammallahti (1988:480
—
483):
p m
t s c n d r
sv nv dv
k 0
u i ii i
o e
a a
w
w
X
Morphologically, the Uralic languages are underlying agglutinating, though many of the
modem languages, especially Estonian, which has innovated considerably, have deviated from
the original type. The original syntactic structure was probably SOV, and this is fairly well
preserved in the modem Samoyed and Ob-Ugric languages (Ostyak [Xanty] and Vogul [Mansi])
and Cheremis (Mari). The basic word order in the other languages is SOV, though, as a general
rule, word order in all Uralic languages is rather flexible. Hungarian stands apart, word order
being determined here more by topic-comment considerations than in the other Uralic languages,
so that neither SOV nor SVO can be said to be dominant.
4.5. Elamo-Dravidian
Word initially, there were only voiceless stops in Proto-Dravidian. This is still the
situation found in Tamil. On the basis of the reflexes found in South Dravidian languages and
Telugu, a series of alveolars distinct from dentals and retroflexes has been reconstructed for
Proto-Dravidian. A notable feature of Proto-Dravidian consonantism is the absence of sibilants.
Medially, Proto-Dravidian had a contrast between geminated (including clusters of nasal plus
consonant) and non-geminated consonants. Initially and medially in combination with other
stops, *p, *t, *k, and *c were voiceless; between vowels and before nasals, they were voiced.
The geminates were voiceless.
4. The Phonological Systems ofthe Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages 77
Proto-Dravidian had five short and long vowels plus the sequences *ay and *aw.
The reconstruction shown below is close to that set up by Kamil Zvelebil (1970: 77) for
Proto-Dravidian; however, I have followed Thomas Burrow and Murray B. Emeneau(1984:xii
—
xiii) in the representation of the alveolar as *r instead of *[, even though the evidence from the
Dravidian daughter languages seems to point to underlying It/ at the Proto-Dravidian level. The
reason for my decision to represent the Proto-Dravidian phoneme as *r instead of *t is based
upon the observation that this phoneme corresponds to /r/ in the closely-related Elamite (though
there is some room for interpretation here) as well as in the other Nostratic languages.
The Proto-Dravidian phonological system is to be reconstructed as follows:
p- t- c- k-
-p- -t- -r- -t- -c- -k-
-pp- -tt- -rr- -tt- -cc- -kk-
-mp- -nt- -nr- -nt- -nc- -nk-
-p(u) -t(u) -r(u) -t(u) -c(u) -k(u)
m n n n
•mm- -nn- -nn- -nn-
V- -r -1 -r y
-v- -r- -1- -r- -y-
-!
-l-
-w- -11- -!!- -yy-
(-V)
e 0 a i u
e 6 a I u
Morphologically, the Dravidian languages are agglutinating. The basic root type was
monosyllabic, though there is some indication that an extremely small number of bisyllabic roots
may have to be reconstructed at the Proto-Dravidian level as well. This is, however, by no
means certain, and it is best at present to regard Proto-Dravidian roots as exclusively
monosyllabic. Inflectional categorization was achieved by means of suffixes added directly to
the lexical roots or to the lexical roots extended by means of derivational suffixes. Any vowel,
long or short, could appear in a root, but only a, i, and u could appear in a suffix. Two basic
parts of speech were differentiated in Proto-Dravidian: nouns and verbs. Norms were inflected
for case, person, number, and gender. Eight cases (nominative, accusative, sociative, dative,
genitive, instrumental, locative, and ablative), two numbers (singular and plural), and two
genders (animate and inanimate) are assumed to have existed in Proto-Dravidian. Verbs were
inflected for tense and person. There were two tenses (past and non-past) and two moods (modal
and indicative). Indeclinables existed as a separate stem type distinct from nouns and verbs.
Syntactically, the basic word order was SOV.
78 4. The Phonological Systems ofthe Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages
4.6. Altaic
Probably the most notable characteristic of the Altaic languages is the assimilatory
phenomenon known as “vowel harmony”. In the Turkic languages, for example, the first vowel
segment occurring in a word influences the following vowel segments so that all vowels in the
word have certain features in common. In Kirghiz, all of the vowels occurring in a given word
must have the same feature for front ~ back and for rounded ~ unrounded, while height
distinctions do not figure into the system of vowel harmony at all, so that high and non-high
vowels can be freely combined in a word. It was the development of the system of vowel
harmony that was responsible for the appearance of front rounded and back unrounded vowels in
Altaic. These vowels are, thus, a later development and are not to be reconstructed for Proto-
Nostratic.
In my recent book (Bomhard—Kems 1994), I mostly followed the reconstruction of the
Proto-Altaic phonological system proposed by Nicholas Poppe (1960), while I based the Proto-
Altaic reconstructed forms upon those proposed by John Street (1974). According to Poppe,
Proto-Altaic is assumed to have had a voicing contrast in stops and affricates, but, as he notes
(1960:9—10), there is a possibility that the contrast could have been between voiceless aspirated
and voiceless unaspirated stops and affricates instead. An entirely different approach is taken by
Illic-Svityc (1971 — :1. 147—156), who reconstructs the three-way contrast of (1) voiceless
aspirated, (2) plain voiceless, and (3) plain voiced for Proto-Altaic, and this is also the system
followed by Starostin (1991) in his important new book. According to Poppe’s reconstruction,
neither the liquids nor the velar nasal were used word initially, while the voiceless stops and
voiceless dental affricate were strongly aspirated. Proto-Altaic also had a rich system of long
and short vowels.
According to Poppe, the Proto-Altaic phonological system is to be reconstructed as
follows:
p t c k
b d 3 g
s
m n n r
-o-
-i-(= -U-) -lv-(= -12.)
-r-(= -ri.) -ry- (= -r2 -)
y
a 0 u i e e 6 ii l
a 6 u I e e 6 u l
According to Starostin (1991:5—24), on the other hand, the Proto-Altaic phonological
system is to be reconstructed as follows:
4. The Phonological Systems ofthe Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages 79
p t c k
p
h t
h ch kh
b d 3 g
s s(?)
z(?)
m n n y -rj-
-1- (= -ft-) -ly. (= -12.)
-r- (= -r1
-) •ry- (= -r2-)
-w- -y-
u 6 i (a) (?)
Morphologically, the Altaic languages are agglutinating in structure. Syntactically, the
original structure was SOV, and this is well preserved in the modem languages, especially the
Turkic languages, which are fairly strict in this regard, while more freedom is found in the
Mongolian and (Manchu-)Tungus languages.
4.7. Sumerian
In a series of privately-circulated papers, Claude Boisson has explored lexical parallels
between Sumerian and other languages, especially the Nilo-Saharan and Nostratic languages.
Boisson has been very careful not to draw wild conclusions from the data he has amassed about
possible relationship of Sumerian to other languages or language families. Yet, the lexical
parallels he has uncovered between Sumerian and the Nostratic languages, especially Dravidian,
though not numerous, look very promising and permit one to establish tentative sound
correspondences between Sumerian and the rest of Nostratic.
The Sumerian cuneiform syllabary distinguished the following sounds:
p t k
b d g
s s h
z
m n I (= 0)
1
a e i u
There may have been corresponding long vowels as well. There were no initial consonant
clusters, while final consonants, especially t, d, k, g, m, n, and r, were often omitted in the writing
80 4. The Phonological Systems ofthe Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages
(cf. Thomsen 1984:43), and this often makes it difficult to ascertain the form of the word.
Internally, there was a tendency for consonants to assimilate. The traditional transliteration
shows a voicing contrast in stops. There is a very strong probability, however, that the actual
contrast was between voiceless aspirated versus voiceless unaspirated or simply between tense
versus lax (cf. Boisson 1988b:215—19; Thomsen 1984: 43): traditional p, t, k = ph
, t
h
, kh
respectively, while traditional b, d, g = p, t, k respectively. Traditional z may have been an
affricate (cf. Boisson 1989b:221 —26). Lastly, Bauer's proposed dr
(cf. Thomsen 1984:44) is
highly questionable (cf. Boisson 1989b:212—14). For a discussion of the problems involved in
interpreting Sumerian phonetics and phonology, cf. Diakonoff 1992:125—129.
The Sumerian root was generally monosyllabic: CV, VC, and, most often, CVC. There
was no distinction between verbal roots and nominal roots — thus, for example dug could mean
either “good” or “to be good”.
There is still not, even after more than a century of intensive study, widespread agreement
among experts in the fields on many fundamental questions of Sumerian grammar. Nevertheless,
the overall structure is clear. Morphologically, Sumerian was an agglutinating language. Three
word classes were distinguished: nouns, verbs, and adjectives. Grammatical gender proper did
not exist, but there was a morphological distinction made between animate and inanimate.
Sumerian differentiated between ergative and absolutive in nouns. In pronouns, however, the
patterning is that of a nominative-accusative system. Syntactically, the basic word order was
SOV.
In the Sumerian texts, certain non-standard forms of speech can be discerned. It is not
entirely clear what this means — perhaps different dialects, perhaps not; perhaps so-called
“refined speech”, perhaps not. These forms, which have been encountered mostly in religious
texts, were labeled “Emesal” by the scribes, while the standard forms were labeled “Emegir”.
4.8. Eskimo-Aleut
While Proto-Eskimo-Aleut has not yet been reconstructed, great progress has been made
in reconstructing Proto-Eskimo. There is now a Comparative Eskimo Dictionary With Aleut
Cognates (1994) by Michael Fortescue, Steven Jacobson, and Lawrence Kaplan, in which Proto-
Eskimo forms are posited. According to Fortescue, Jacobson, and Kaplan (1994:xi), the Proto-
Eskimo phonological system is to be reconstructed as follows (note: the authors also list several
non-Proto-Eskimo phonemes in their chart —these are not included below):
p t c(=c) k q
v 6 y y r
1
i
m n 9
4. The Phonological Systems ofthe Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages 8
1
i u
9
a
4.9. Proto-Nostratic
Proto-Nostratic had a rich system of stops and affricates. Each stop and affricate series
was characterized by the three-way contrast (1) voiceless (aspirated), (2) voiced, and (3)
glottalized. The aspiration of series (1) was phonemically non-distinctive.
Three primary vowels may be reconstructed for Proto-Nostratic: *a, *i, and *u, and this,
along with the addition of the vowel e, is the situation reflected in Sumerian, which is
particularly conservative in regards to vocalism. These vowels must have been subject to
considerable subphonemic variation in the Nostratic parent language. The high front and back
vowels *i and *u may be assumed to have had lowered variants (indicated in the Proto-Nostratic
reconstructions as *e and *o respectively), while the central low vowel *a may be assumed to
have had higher variants (indicated in the Proto-Nostratic reconstructions as *3). It was the
reanalysis, phonemicization, and exploitation of this subphonemic variation that gave rise to the
ablaut and vowel harmony patterning found in the majority of the Nostratic daughter languages.
In Afroasiatic, on the other hand, the high allophones merged into *3, and the low allophones
merged into *a. It is unclear whether phonemic long vowels existed in Proto-Nostratic as well,
though the evidence seems to indicate that they did not.
The Proto-Nostratic phonological system may tentatively be reconstructed as follows:
Stops and Affricates:
Fricatives:
Glides:
Nasals and Liquids:
Vowels:
Pl
h
] tp] c[»]
b d 3
p’ t’ c’
s s*
w
m n
1
i ~ e
ty
[
h
] tj[h
l ky[h
]
dy gy
t’y t*’ k’y
y
n*
ly
ry
u~o
k[h
] kw
[
h
] q[
h
]
g g
w G
k’ k’w q’
?
h h
S
0
q’
3 ~ a
82 4. The Phonological Systems ofthe Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages
Also the sequences: iy ~ ey uy ~ oy ay ~ ay
iw ~ ew uw ~ ow aw ~ aw
The palatalized velars are reconstructed solely on the basis of the reflexes found in
Afroasiatic, and their reconstruction at the Proto-Nostratic level is, therefore, highly uncertain. I
would like to be able to propose that the Afroasiatic reflexes are due to an innovation in which
plain velars were palatalized before front vowels, but the evidence I have gathered to date is
simply too contradictory to allow me to make such a statement with even a modicum of
certainty.
We may note in passing that the vowel system reconstructed above for Proto-Nostratic is
similar to that found in Chukchi (cf. Greenberg 1990:1 15):
High: i e u
Low: e a o
The Chukchi vowels form a system of vowel harmony in which the second correspondent (e, a,
o) is labeled “dominant”, and the first (/', e, u) “recessive”. Native Chukchi words must contain
either all “dominant” or all “recessive” vowels; the two correspondents cannot co-exist in the
same word. The schwa (a) is neutral in regards to the “dominant” - “recessive” contrast.
The system of vowel harmony found in Chukchi operates according to different
principles than the system found, for example, in Altaic. In Altaic, the direction of vowel
harmony is determined by the vowel of the root. In Chukchi, on the other hand, a particular
morpheme is either “dominant” or “recessive”; it is the vowel of the “dominant” morpheme (this
need not be the root) that influences the remaining vowels.
According to Greenberg (1990), traces of an earlier system of vowel harmony can be
discerned in Proto-Indo-European.
4.10. Root Structure Patterning in Proto-Nostratic
Comparison of the various Nostratic daughter languages, especially Proto-Indo-European,
Proto-Kartvelian, and Proto-Afroasiatic, makes it possible to determine the rules governing the
structural patterning of roots and stems in Proto-Nostratic. Most likely, the patterning was as
follows:
1. There were no initial vowels in Proto-Nostratic. Therefore, every root began with a
consonant.
2. Originally, there were no initial consonant clusters either. Consequently, every root began
with one and only one consonant. Medial clusters were permitted, however.
4. The Phonological Systems ofthe Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages 83
3. Two basic root types existed: (A) *CV and (B) *CVC, where C = any non-syllabic, and V =
any vowel. Permissible root forms coincided exactly with these two syllable types.
4. A stem could either be identical with a root or it could consist of a root plus a single
derivational morpheme added as a suffix to the root: *CVC-VC-. Any consonant could serve
as a suffix.
5. A stem could thus assume any one of the following shapes: (A) *CV-, (B) *CVC-, (C)
*CVC-VC- (*CVC-C- as well, before vowels), or (D) *CVC-CVC-. As in Proto-Altaic, the
undifferentiated stems were real forms in themselves and could be used without additional
suffixes.
The original root structure patterning was maintained longer in Proto-Indo-European,
Proto-Kartvelian, and Proto-Affoasiatic than in the other branches. The root structure constraints
found in Proto-Indo-European were an innovation. Both the Proto-Dravidian and the Proto-
Altaic root structure patterning can be derived from earlier systems identical to what is proposed
above for Proto-Nostratic. In Proto-Uralic, the rule requiring that all words end in a vowel was
an innovation. It should be mentioned here that reduplication was a widespread phenomenon.
On the basis of the evidence of Proto-Indo-European, Proto-Kartvelian, Proto-Affoasiatic,
Proto-Dravidian, and Proto-Altaic, it may be assumed that there were three fundamental stem
types: (A) verbal stems, (B) nominal and adjectival stems, and (C) pronominal and indeclinable
stems. Both verbal stems and nominal stems could be built from the same root. Uralic stands
apart in showing no differentiation between verbal and nominal stems. In Sumerian, though
nominal and verbal roots were identical in form, three separate word classes were distinguished:
(A) nouns, (B) verbs, and (C) adjectives. Returning to Proto-Nostratic, only pronominal and
indeclinable stems could end in a vowel. Verbal and nominal stems, on the other hand, had to
end in a consonant (though vowels could serve as grammatical markers).
Morphologically, Proto-Nostratic was most likely an agglutinating language. Those
daughter languages that are highly inflected, namely, Proto-Indo-European, Proto-Kartvelian,
and Proto-Afroasiatic, may be assumed to have gone through earlier periods of development as
agglutinating languages. Such a development is suggested for Proto-Indo-European by Bomhard
(1988:475—88) and, in particular, Rasmussen (1987:107—22); see also Adrados (1989).
4.11. Nostratic Sound Correspondences
The following tables summarize the sound correspondences existing among those
branches of Nostratic dealt with in this book. These correspondences are based upon the analysis
of the lexical material that forms the core of the joint monograph by me and John C. Kerns
(Bomhard—Kerns 1994).
84 4. The Phonological Systems ofthe Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages
Table 2: Nostratic Sound Correspondences
4. The Phonological Systems in the Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages 85
Proto- Proto- Proto- Proto- Proto- Proto- Proto-
Nostratic IE Kartvelian Afroasiatic Uralic Dravidian Altaic Sumerian
g- g[
h
l- g- g- k- k- g- g-
-g- -g[h]- -g- -g- -Y- -k- -g- -g-
m- k[h]- k[h]- kp]- k- k- k- k-
-k[h]- -k[h]- -kp]- -kp]- -k(k)- -k(k)- -k-/-g- -k-
k’- k’- k’- k’- k- k- k- g-
-k’- -k’- -k’- -k’- -k- -k(k)- -g- -g-
gy-
g[
h]- g- gy- k- k- g- g-
-gy-
-g[h]- -g- -gy. -Y- -k- -g- -g-
kv[h]- kp]- kp]- kvp]- k- k- k- k-
-kv[h]- -kp]- k[h]- -kv[h]- -k(k)- -k(k)- -k-/-g- -k-
k’y- k’- k’- k’y- k- k- k- g-
-k’y- -k’- -k’- -k>- -k- -k(k)- -g- -g-
g
w-
g
w
[
h]- gw/u- gw. k- k- g- gu-
-gw- -gw
P]- -gw/u- -gw.
-Y- -k- -g- -gu-
kw
[
h]- kwp]- k[h]w/u- kwp]- k- k- k- ku-
-kw
[
h]- -kwp]- -k[h ]w/u- -kw[h]- -k(k)- -k(k)- -k-/-g- -ku-
k’ w- k’w. k’w/u- k’w- k- k- k- gu-
-k’w- -k’w- -k’w/u- -k’w- -k- -k(k)- -g- -gu-
G- g[
h
]- G- g- k- k- g- g-
-G- -gp]- -G- -g- -Y- -k- -g- -g-
q[
h]- k[h]- qp]- kp]- k- k- k- h- (?)
-q[h
J- -kp]- -qp]- -k[h]- -k(k)- -k(k)- -k-/-g- -h- (?)
q’- k’- q’- k
?
- k- k- k- g-
-q- -k’- -q’- -k’- -k- -k(k)- -g- -g-
q’w. k’w_ q’w/u- k’w- k- k- k- gu-
-q’w. -k’w- -q’w/u- -k’w- -k- -k(k)- -g- -gu-
86 4. The Phonological Systems ofthe Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages
Proto- Proto- Proto- Proto- Proto- Proto- Proto-
Nostratic IE Kartvelian Afroasiatic Uralic Dravidian Altaic Sumerian
tj[h]- k[h]- X- tj[h]- sy- c- k-
-tj[h]- k[h]- -X- -tj[h]- -5- -k- -k-/-g-
tf- k’- tj’- 5v- t- k- d-
-tj’- -k’- -tj’- -8y- -g- -d-
?- 0- ?- 0- 0- 0-
-Tfi- -0- -?- -0- -0- -0-
fi- hh- X- h- 0- 0- 0- h-
-h- -hh- -X- -h- -0- -0- -0- -h-
?- ?- 0- ?- 0- 0- 0- 0-
-?- -?- -0- -?- -0- -0- -0- -0-
h- h- 0- h- 0- 0- 0- 0-
-h- -h- -0- -h- -0- -0- -0- -0-
y- y- y-/0- y- y- y-/0- y-
-y- -y- -y- -y- -y- -y-
w- w- w- w- w- V-/0-
-w- -w- -w- -w- -w- -V-
m- m- m- m- m- m- m- m-
-m- -m- -m- -m- -m- -m- -m- -m-
n- n- n- n- n- n-
-n- -n- -n- -n- -n- -n-/-n- -n- -n-
ny- n- n- ny- n- ny-
-ny- -n- -n- -ny- -n- -ny-
-D- -n- -n- _
D" -n- -D-
i- 1- 1- 1- i- i- 1-
-i- -1- -1- -1- -i- -i- -i- -1-
-\y- -1- -1- -1- -ly- -i- -ly-
r- r- r- r- r- r-
-r- -r- -r- -r- -r- -T-/-T- -r- -r-
-rv- -r- -r- -r- -ry- -r- -ry-
4. The Phonological Systems in the Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages 87
Proto- Proto- Proto- Proto-
Nostratic Indo-European Kartvelian Afroasiatic
i i, e i a
3 e, a, a e, i a
u u,o u a
e e e a
a a, o, a a a
0 0 0 a
iy iy, ey, I, e, i iy, i ay
ay ey, ay, iy, i ey, i ay
uy iy, I, i uy, i ay
ey ey, iy, e, i ey, i ay
ay ay, oy, iy, i ay, i ay
oy oy, iy, i oy, i ay
iw u, uw, u iw, u aw
aw ew, aw, uw, u ew, u aw
uw u, o, uw, ow, u uw, u aw
ew ew, uw, u ew, u aw
aw ow, uw, u aw, u aw
ow 0,
ow, uw, u OW, u aw
88 4. The Phonological Systems ofthe Remaining Nostratic Daughter Languages
Proto- Proto- Proto- Proto-
Nostratic Uralic Dravidian Altaic Sumerian
i i i i, 1 i
3 e e e e
u u u u,ii u
e e e e e
a a, a a a a
0 0 0 o, 6 u
iy iy. i iy.i T,i i
ay ey ey, e e, i, i i
uy uy uy, u i
ey ey, e ey, e ey,l e
ay ay, ay ay, a a, i, i' e
oy oy oy, o e
iw iw iv,T u
9W ew ev, e u
uw uw, u uv, u u, u u
ew ew ev, e u
aw aw, aw av, a o, 6 u
ow ow, 0 ov, 6 o, 6 u
5
Indo-European and Nostratic
5.1. Introduction
Before looking into how comparison with other Nostratic languages can shed light on a
few selected problem areas within Indo-European, it would be useful to discuss some salient
characteristics of Indo-European. Morphologically, Proto-Indo-European was a highly inflected
language — except for particles, conjunctions, and certain quasi-adverbial forms, all words were
inflected. The basic structure of inflected words was as follows: root + suffix (one or more) +
inflectional ending. A notable morphophonemic characteristic was the extensive use of a system
of vocalic alternations (“Ablaut” in German) as a means to mark morphological distinctions (it
may be noted that similar patterning is found in Kartvelian [cf. Gamkrelidze—Macavariani
1982:93—100]). For nouns and adjectives, three genders (masculine, feminine, and neuter),
three numbers (singular, dual, and plural), and as many as eight cases (nominative, accusative,
genitive, dative, locative, ablative, instrumental, and vocative) have been reconstructed. The
traditional reconstruction of the Proto-Indo-European verbal system (cf. Szemerenyi 1990:245)
sets up two voices (active and middle), four moods (indicative, subjunctive, optative, and
imperative), and as many as six tenses, though only three (present, aorist, and perfect) can be
posited with certainty. Syntactically, Proto-Indo-European seems to have had many of the
characteristics of an SOV language, though there must, no doubt, have been a great deal of
flexibility in basic word order patterning.
It is doubtful that all of the features described in the preceding paragraph were ancient —
it is indeed possible to discern several chronological layers of development, and several scholars
have attempted to delineate the various stages of development (cf., for example, Adrados 1992,
Georgiev 1984, Rasmussen 1987 and 1989, and Shields 1982 [summary on pp. 94—97]).
Typically, three stages are posited (so Adrados and Georgiev — Shields posits five), the first
stage (Stage I) invariably being “non-inflectional”, the second (Stage II) having a simple
inflectional system, and the third (Stage III) having a highly-developed inflectional system.
Stage I, “non-inflectional”, finds no support in cognate Nostratic languages. Indo-European is a
member of the Eurasiatic branch of Nostratic, and all indications are that Proto-Eurasiatic had an
agglutinating morphological structure, from which the Proto-Indo-European inflectional system
developed. The earliest form of Proto-Indo-European that can be recovered may be assumed to
have had a simpler inflectional system than what is found, for example, in Old Indie (Vedic and
Classical Sanskrit) or Classical Greek, both of which have expanded upon the earlier system.
Hittite and the other Anatolian languages (Hieroglyphic and Cuneiform Luwian, Palaic, Lycian,
Lydian) may be assumed to have separated from the main speech community at a very early date,
before the morphological system had fully developed the morphological structure ancestral to
90 5. Indo-European and Nostratic
later stage languages such as Latin, Old Indie, Greek, etc. Thus, the Anatolian languages reflect
the simpler morphological system of early Proto-Indo-European. A note of caution: Hittite has
clearly innovated as well and may even have lost some features.
Let us now look at Indo-European and address the question of what is to be gained by
comparing Indo-European with the other Nostratic languages. The following gains may be
mentioned as being among the most important:
1 . a better understanding of the laryngeals,
2. a better understanding of root structure patterning,
3 . a better understanding of the origin of verb morphology,
4. clarification of issues surrounding the origin and development of nominal declension,
5. a better understanding of the origin and development of vowel gradation, and
6. support for the glottalic reinterpretation of Indo-European consonantism.
We may now look at each one of these in more detail:
5.2. Laryngeals
According to Kurylowicz and those who follow his theories (such as Sturtevant and
Lehmann, among others), Indo-European is assumed to have had four laryngeals, which may be
symbolized as *H„ *H2,
*H3,
and *H4 (Kurylowicz writes *o„ *o2 ,
*o3 ,
and *g4 ). Other scholars
posit only three laryngeals, denying the existence of *H4, and, still others posit as few as one
laryngeal or as many as twelve. For the sake of argument, we will stick with the four laryngeals
posited by Kurylowicz. Now, of the other Nostratic branches, only Affoasiatic has a full set of
laryngeals. Though Semitic is traditionally assumed to have had six laryngeals, the Affoasiatic
parent language most likely had only four, namely, a glottal stop /?/, a voiceless laryngeal (or
glottal) fricative /h/, and voiceless and voiced pharyngeal fricatives /h/ and 111. Extremely good
correspondences can be established between Afroasiatic and Indo-European, and, as a result, it is
now possible to establish the probable phonetic values of the laryngeals: we can confirm that
*H, was a glottal stop 111 and *H4 was a voiceless laryngeal fricative Ihl as originally suggested
by Sapir, Sturtevant, and Lehmann, while *H2 was probably the voiceless and voiced multiply-
articulated pharyngeal/laryngeal fricatives /hh/ and I1RI, and *H3 was probably originally
identical to *H2. That is to say that there is no evidence from the other Nostratic languages to
support positing *H3 distinct from *H2 in Indo-European. Note that both of these two laryngeals
have the same reflex in Hittite, namely, h- (initially) and -h(h)- (medially). The only reason that
two separate laryngeals were set up in Indo-European by Kurylowicz in the first place was to
account for several cases of nonapophonic *o. However, these examples can be accounted for
much better by assuming that this single, combined *H2 and *H3 changed a contiguous original
*u to *o along the lines of what is found in modem Arabic dialects. (It should be noted here that
5. Indo-European and Nostratic 91
/frh/ and /Tfi/ are to be derived from earlier voiceless and voiced pharyngeal fricatives /h1 and 111
respectively — for details on the development of the laryngeals in Indo-European, cf.
Bomhard—Kerns 1994:47—56; for a good introduction to the Laryngeal Theory, see Lindeman
1987; see also Keiler 1970 and Winter [ed.] 1965.)
5.3. Root Structure Patterning
In a work published in 1935 entitled (in English translation) Origins of the Formation of
Nouns in Indo-European, the French Indo-Europeanist Emile Benveniste (1935:147—173)
carefully analyzed the patterning of roots in Indo-European and was able to discern the
underlying principles governing that patterning. Now, comparison of Indo-European with the
other Nostratic branches, especially Kartvelian and Afroasiatic, allows us to refine the theories of
Benveniste and, in so doing, to trace the development of root structure patterning from the
earliest times down to the appearance of the individual daughter languages. The most ancient
patterning may be assumed to have been as follows:
1 . There were no initial vowels in the earliest form of pre-Indo-European. Therefore, every root
began with a consonant.
2. Originally, there were no initial consonant clusters either. Consequently, every root began
with one and only one consonant.
3. Two basic syllable types existed: (A) *CV and (B) *CVC, where C = any non-syllabic and V
= any vowel. Permissible root forms coincided exactly with these two syllable types.
4. A verbal stem could either be identical with a root or it could consist of a root plus a single
derivational morpheme added as a suffix to the root: *CVC-VC-. Any consonant could serve
as a suffix.
5. Nominal stems, on the other hand, could be further extended by additional suffixes.
In the earliest form of Indo-European, there were three fundamental stem types: (A)
verbal stems, (B) nominal and adjectival stems, and (C) pronominal and indeclinable stems.
The phonemicization of a strong stress accent disrupted the patterning outlined above.
The positioning of the stress was morphologically distinctive, serving as a means to differentiate
grammatical categories. All vowels were retained when stressed but were either weakened (=
“reduced-grade”) or totally eliminated (= “zero-grade”) when unstressed: the choice between the
reduced-grade versus the zero-grade depended upon the position of the unstressed syllable
relative to the stressed syllable as well as upon the laws of syllabicity in effect at that time.
Finally, it was at this stage of development that the syllabic allophones of the resonants came
into being.
92 5. Indo-European and Nostratic
The stress-conditioned ablaut alternations gave rise to two distinct forms of extended
stems:
Type 1 : Root in full-grade and accented, suffix in zero-grade: *CVCC-.
Type 2: Root in zero-grade, suffix in full-grade and accented: *CCVC-.
When used as a verbal stem, Type 1 could undergo no further extension. However, Type 2 could
be further extended by means of a “determinative”. Further addition of a determinative or
suffixes pointed to a nominal stem. According to Benveniste, a “suffix” was characterized by
two alternating forms *-en-/*-n-, *-ek-/*-k-, etc.), while a “determinative” was
characterized by a fixed consonantal form (*-/-, *-k-, etc.).
In its beginnings, ablaut was merely a phonological alternation. During the course of its
development, however, Indo-European gradually grammaticalized these ablaut alternations.
Indo-European had constraints on permissible root structure sequences. In terms of the
radical revision of the Indo-European consonant system proposed by Gamkrelidze, Hopper, and
Ivanov, these constraint laws may be stated as follows:
1 . Each root contained at least one non-glottalic consonant.
2. When both obstruents were non-glottalic, they had to agree in voicing.
The Indo-European root structure constraint laws thus become merely a voicing agreement rule
with the corollary that two glottalics cannot cooccur in a root. Comparison of Indo-European
with the other Nostratic branches indicates, however, that the forbidden root types must have
once existed. Two rules may be formulated to account for the elimination of the forbidden types:
1 . A rule of progressive voicing assimilation may be set up to account for the elimination of
roots whose consonantal elements originally did not agree in voicing: *T~*B>*T~ *P, *B
~*T>*B~ *D, etc.
2. A rule of regressive deglottalization may be set up to account for the elimination of roots
containing two glottalics: *T' ~ *K’ > *T ~ *K\ etc. This rule finds a close parallel in
Geers’ Law in Akkadian.
According to Gamkrelidze, Bartholomae’s Law is a later manifestation of the progressive
voicing assimilation rule, applied to contact sequences.
In a number of works, John Colarusso has explored typological parallels between Indo-
European and Northwest Caucasian. In an article published in 1992 entitled “Phyletic Links
between Proto-Indo-European and Proto-Northwest Caucasian”, he attempted to show that these
two language families were in fact genetically related. One of the areas explored by Colarusso
was stem formation. After discussing Benveniste’s theory of the Indo-European root, he
suggests that at least some Indo-European roots might be better explained if the first part is
5. Indo-European and Nostratic 93
analyzed not as a morpheme but rather as a preverb, while the enlargements are seen not as
enlargements but rather as roots, similar to the patterning observed in Northwest Caucasian.
While Colarusso’s theories about a genetic relationship between Indo-European and Northwest
Caucasian have not met with acceptance, his views on stem formation merit further research.
5.4. Verb Morphology
Comparison of Indo-European with Uralic reveals many striking similarities in verb
morphology and allows us to ascertain the ultimate origin of the athematic verb endings: they
can be nothing else but agglutinated personal pronouns. The earliest forms of the athematic
endings were most likely as follows (for details, cf. Bomhard 1988; see also Villar 1991:244
—
252):
Person Singular Plural
1 *-m *-me
2 *-te
3 *-s, *-0 *-se
This earlier system may be partially preserved in Tocharian A, where the athematic endings are
as follows:
Person Singular Plural
1 -(d)m -imas
2 -(d)t -c
3 -(d)? -(One
Note: There are phonological problems with the 3rd singular ending -(a)s — had this been
inherited directly from Proto-Indo-European *-si, we would expect -(a)s, not -(a)s. The best
explanation is that of Pedersen, who derived this ending from an enclitic *se-.
Now compare the following system of personal endings, which are assumed to have
existed in Proto-Uralic (cf. Hajdu 1972:40 and 43—45):
Person Singular Plural
1 *-me *-me (+ Plural)
2 *-te *-te (+ Plural)
3 *-se *-se (+ Plural)
94 5. Indo-European and Nostratic
These endings survive in Elamite as well, especially in the 2nd and 3rd persons (by the
way, the 1st singular ending, -h, is, of course, related to the 1st singular perfect ending *-Ae of
traditional Indo-European, which is found, for example, in Luwian in the 1st singular preterite
ending -ha, in Hittite in the 1st singular ending -hi, and in Greek in the 1st singular perfect
ending -a; this ending may also be related to the Kartvelian 1st person personal prefix of the
subject series, *xw- [Gamkrelidze—Macavariani 1982:85 reconstruct *w-, however], as
suggested by Ivanov and Palmaitis) —compare, for example, the conjugation of hutta- “to do, to
make” from Middle Elamite (cf. Reiner 1969:76; Grillot-Susini 1987:33):
Person Singular Plural
1 hutta-h hutta-hu (<h + h)
2 hutta-t hutta-ht (<h + 1)
3 hutta-s hutta-hs [<h + s)
Traces of the 2nd singular ending are also found in Dravidian — McAlpin (1981:120)
reconstructs Proto-Elamo-Dravidian 2nd person ending *-ti (> Proto-Elamite *-to, Proto-
Dravidian *-//). This is a significant archaism, since it bears no apparent resemblance to the
common Elamo-Dravidian 2nd person personal pronoun stem, which McAlpin (1981:1 14—115)
reconstructs as *ni and which may be an innovation (cf. Dolgopolsky 1984:87—88 and 100;
Dolgopolsky posits Proto-Elamo-Dravidian *nun, which he derives from *tun through
assimilation), though Greenberg (forthcoming) discusses the possibility that there may have been
a second person pronoun stem *nV in Eurasiatic.
Traces of these endings can be found in the Altaic languages too, as in the Turkish
agreement markers -(l)m (1st singular) and -0 (3rd singular verbal) or -(s)I(n) (3rd singular
nominal). In Proto-Turkic, the 1st singular possessive suffix was *-m, while the 3rd singular was
*-s (cf. Sinor 1988:725). According to Sinor (1988:725), the 1st singular possessive suffix was
also *-m in Proto-Tungus, and the 2nd singular was *-t — the 3rd singular possessive suffix, on
the other hand, was *-n, which mirrors what is found in Sumerian (see below). Finally, we may
note that a 3rd singular in -s is also found in Kartvelian (cf. Old Georgian c ’er-s “writes”)
The 2nd singular ending *-t is preserved in Hittite and Tocharian. This was later replaced
by what had been the 3rd singular, namely, *-s. In his 1962 book entitled Indo-European
Origins of the Celtic Verb. 1: The Sigmatic Aorist, Calvert Watkins discusses the extensive
evidence from the Indo-European daughter languages for an original 3rd singular ending in *-s.
It was Watkins who also showed that the 3rd singular indicative was originally characterized by
the fundamental ending zero. The *-n- found in the 3rd plural was a relic of the 3rd person
ending found in Tungus, Kartvelian (cf. Old Georgian c 'er-en “they write”), and Sumerian. The
development of the 3rd singular ending *-t was a later change, though this still occurred fairly
early since it is found in Hittite and the other Anatolian daughter languages —this *-t was added
to the 3rd plural ending *-n- at the same time, yielding the new ending *-nt-. The most recent
change must have been the development of the so-called “primary” endings, which were built
upon the so-called “secondary” endings by the addition of the deictic particle *-i meaning “here
5. Indo-European and Nostratic 95
and now”, as shown by Kems and Schwartz in their 1972 book on Indo-European verb
morphology. It may be mentioned that this deictic particle has a Nostratic origin, coming from a
widely-represented proximate demonstrative stem meaning “this one here”.
Proto-Uralic is assumed to have had two conjugational types (cf. Hajdu 1972: 43—44):
(A) a determinative (objective) conjugation, which was characterized by the 3rd singular in *-j
and which was used with transitive verbs, and (B) an indeterminative (subjective) conjugation,
which was characterized by the 3rd singular in zero and which was used with intransitive verbs.
The same two conjugational types were found in Proto-Indo-European, except that they were
used to contrast active versus stative. Indeed, the active-stative contrast appears to be the more
ancient in both Uralic and Indo-European.
After all of the changes described above had taken place, the resulting Proto-Indo-
European athematic endings were as follows (cf. Brugmann 1904:588—594; Burrow
1973:306—319; Szemerenyi 1990:356—357):
I. Primary II. Secondary
Person Singular Plural Singular Plural
1 *-mi *-me *-m *-me
2 *-si *-te *-s *-te
3 *-ti *-nti *-t *-nt
Note: The 1st person plural endings have different extensions in the various daughter languages:
*-mes(i), *-mos(i), *-men(i), *-mon(i).
In volume 1 (draft version 3 dated 9 March 1995), Grammar, of his forthcoming book
Indo-European and Its Closest Relatives: The Eurasiatic Language Family, Greenberg discusses
the evidence for a Eurasiatic first-person singular pronoun stem *k. He writes:
Less widely distributed than m for the first-person singular is k. Wherever they both appear, the
general contrast is m as ergative versus absolutive k, m as active versus middle or passive k, and m
as active versus stative k. I am inclined to believe that this last contrast is the basic one from
which the others developed. A contrast of this kind between m and k seems to be attested only in
the first-person singular.
Recently, several scholars have tried to show that Indo-European is to be reconstructed as
an active-stative language (for a brief discussion, cf. Schwink 1994:86—87 and 89—110).
Indeed, such an interpretation seems to clarify many problems in the early dialects. According to
this interpretation, the so-called “perfect” of traditional Indo-European is seen as originally
stative (cf. Lehmann 1993:218). Comparison with other Nostratic languages allows us to
confirm this view.
Now, the perfect had its own set of endings, one of which has hitherto defied explanation
(cf. Sihler 1995:576—577, §518), namely, the first person perfect endings in *-k- found, for
example, in Tocharian A taka “I was”, Latin feci “I made”, Greek sGrpca “I placed”, etc. In
Greek, a separate stem type developed, the so-called “lca-perfect”, based upon the -k- endings.
96 5. Indo-European and Nostratic
This development took place in the early prehistory of Greek itself and is not representative of
the Indo-European state of affairs. All indications are that the *-k- endings belonged exclusively
to the first person singular in Proto-Indo-European. Thus, both in function and form, the *-k-
endings clearly belong with the Eurasiatic first person singular pronoun stem *k reconstructed by
Greenberg. It should be noted that this explanation is different than that given by Greenberg,
who compares the Proto-Indo-European first person perfect ending *-Ha with the *-k- endings
found in the other Eurasiatic languages. On purely phonological grounds, I find Greenberg’s
proposal less convincing than the alternative suggested here.
5.5. Noun Morphology
According to John C. Kems (Bomhard—Kems 1994:172—173, §3.5.3), Proto-Nostratic
may have had three nominal declensions: (A) the first declension, corresponding to the neuter
heteroclitic declension in Indo-European; (B) the second declension, corresponding to the other
neuter paradigms in Indo-European, and (C) the third declension, a variation of the second
wherein a definite-accusative singular was marked by the termination *-m. Kems states that the
accusative had no special marker in the first two declensional types. He also notes that the
accusative singular ending *-m is found in Proto-Uralic and is also widely-represented in
Dravidian languages (where it has become -n as in Greek, for example, within Indo-European
[for the full set of Proto-Dravidian case endings, see below]). Kems reconstructs the following
singular case endings for Common Uralic (cf. also Collinder 1960:282 and 1965:54—57; Hajdu
1972:41):
Nominative: *-0
Accusative: *-m
Genitive: *-n
Dative-Lative: *-nrV (palatalized
Locative: *-na
Ablative: *-ta and *Sa
Kems believes that the above endings, “with a few reservations”, can also be attributed to Proto-
Nostratic (here, I would substitute “Proto-Eurasiatic” for “Proto-Nostratic” — Kems himself
uses “Eurasiatic” in his 1985 book).
At this point, it is interesting to compare the case endings (properly, tightly bound
postpositions) reconstructed for Proto-Dravidian by Zvelebil (1977:33):
Nominative:
Accusative:
Genitive:
Dative:
Instrumental:
*-0 and, possibly, *-m/*-n with non-personal substantives
*-(V)n
*-in (adnominal); *-atu (pronominal); *-a (possessive)
*-(k)ku
*-an/*al
5. Indo-European and Nostratic 97
Ablative: *-in (?)
Locative: *-ul\ *-in/*-il (?); *-kan
Sociative: *-6tu or *-(t)-otu < *torV (?)
(Comitative)
This system can be derived from an earlier, simpler system, as is shown by comparison with
Elamite (cf. McAlpin 1981:108—112). Clearly, several of the endings must have had a
common origin (such as the genitive ending *-in, the ablative *-in, and the locative *-in[/*-i7]).
McAlpin (1981 :1 1
1) reconstructs the following case endings for Proto-Elamo-Dravidian:
Nominative: *-0
Accusative: *-(V)n
Adessive/ *-okks
Purposive (Dative):
Genitives:
(?)
1 . Possessive: *-a
2. Adnominal: *-in
3. Oblique/ *-to
Locative
To fill out the picture, let us look at the case endings reconstructed for Proto-Indo-
European by Szemerenyi (1990:169; see also Beekes 1995:173, §13.2.2):
Singular Plural Dual
Nominative: *-s, *-0 *-es
Vocative: *-0 *-es / *-e, *-//*-/
Accusative: *-ns/*-ns '
Genitive: *-es/*-os/*-s *-oml*-om *-ous (?), *-os (?)
Ablative: *-es/*-os/*-s\
*-ed!*-od
*-bh(y)os, *-mos *-bhyo, * -mb
Dative: *-ei *-bh(y)os, *-mos *-bhyo, *-mo
Locative: *-i *-su *-ou
Instrumental: *-e/*-o;
*-bhi, *-mi
*-dis;
*-bhis, *-mis
*-bhyo, *-mo
Missing from this table is the thematic nominative-accusative neuter singular ending *-m — this
form is to be derived from the accusative singular ending. The *-bh- and *-m- endings found in
several of the concrete cases are usually considered to be late additions, and some have even
questioned whether or not they should even be posited for the Indo-European parent language.
They are not found in Hittite. No doubt, these endings were originally adverbs that were
gradually incorporated into the case system, with some daughter languages choosing *-bh- and
98 5. Indo-Eur opean and Nostratic
others choosing *-m-. They should not be reconstructed as case endings at the Proto-Indo-
European level. In like manner, the genitive plural probably arose from the accusative singular,
while the genitive singular and nominative singular endings in *-s must have had a common
origin — these endings later spread from the genitive singular to the ablative singular. The dual
was a late addition, while the plural originally had a reduced set of endings compared to what
was found in the singular —this is the picture that emerges when the Hittite and other Anatolian
data are brought into consideration. We may note here that the Proto-Uralic ablative ending *-ta
and the Proto-Elamo-Dravidian oblique/locative ending *-fp are most probably related to the
Indo-European ablative *-edl*-od (the phonetics are uncertain here).
In his book Indo-European Prehistory, Kerns (1985:109—111) devotes considerable
attention to describing an oblique-n marker, which he claims is a major component in Indo-
European heteroclitic stems, and he elaborates upon his ideas in his treatment of Nostratic
declension in Bomhard—Kerns (1994:173—179, §3. 5.3.1). He notes that this oblique-n is the
source of the -n found in the genitive, ablative, and instrumental case endings in Dravidian — it
is also found in the genitive, dative-lative (palatalized before a front vowel), and locative case
endings in Uralic. Kems even finds traces of this oblique-n in Eskimo and Japanese. Thus, this
is a widespread and ancient feature. Greenberg (forthcoming) also discusses this ending:
There is an -n genitive in Eurasiatic that frequently serves as a marker of the oblique case along
with more specific indicators of location, instrument, etc. When this occurs it invariably precedes
the specific indicator. In certain cases it has also spread to the nominative.
5.6. Vowel Gradation
The development of vowel gradation is extremely complicated and would require far
more space to discuss than is allotted for in this book. Therefore, I will only deal with several
key points. Ever since Hirt, it has been assumed by many scholars that early Indo-European
went through a stage of development characterized by phonemic stress and that this stress caused
the weakening and/or loss of the vowels of unaccented syllables, that is to say that the stress was
responsible for the development of the quantitative ablaut alternations. Furthermore, according
to this theory, it is assumed that, at a later date, stress became phonemically non-distinctive and
was replaced by an accent system characterized by phonemic pitch and that this pitch accent was
responsible for the development of the qualitative ablaut alternations. Kurylowicz, however,
argued that the qualitative ablaut alternations were ancient and preceded the changes brought
about by the phonemicization of a strong stress accent. Comparison with the other Nostratic
languages, especially Kartvelian, indicates that Kurylowicz was correct. Indo-European
inherited the qualitative ablaut alternations from Nostratic. In a recent paper entitled “The
Prehistory of the Indo-European Vowel System in Comparative and Typological Perspective”,
Greenberg (1990) supplies convincing evidence in support of this view. The phonemization of a
strong stress accent in early Indo-European brought about a complete restructuring of the
inherited vowel system. The same thing happened in Kartvelian, by the way. Another important
point concerns the early prehistory of the *e ~ *o ablaut gradation. In an article published in
5. Indo-European and Nostratic 99
1965, Pulleyblank tried to show that this gradation series should be reinterpreted as a *9 (schwa)
~ *a gradation. It looks as though Pulleyblank came pretty close to the truth, though only for the
oldest period of development. We may note that this older system is partially preserved in
Hittite, where *3 appears as e (or i) and *a is preserved as such. The development of *3 to *e is
fairly easy to explain: *e may be assumed to have been the normal allophone of *3 under stress.
A typological parallel may be observed in the Northwest Caucasian languages Ubykh and
Circassian, where 3 becomes e under stress. For the latest period of development, namely, the
period directly before the emergence of the non-Anatolian daughter languages, the traditional
system of five long and short vowels is surely correct. Finally, there is little indication that
Nostratic had phonemic long vowels. Therefore, long vowels may be assumed to have arisen
solely in Indo-European proper.
According to Greenberg (1990), traces of an earlier system of vowel harmony can be
discerned in Proto-Indo-European.
5.7. Indo-European Consonantism
There are internal inconsistencies in the traditional reconstruction of the Indo-European
stop system that make that system highly improbable from a typological point of view — these
include: (1) the low frequency of occurrence, if not total absence, of the traditional voiced labial
stop *b; (2) the fact that the traditional voiced stops (*b, *d, *g, *gw
)
are only infrequently found
in pronouns and inflectional affixes; (3) the unexplained root structure constraint against the
cooccurrence of two voiced stops in a root; and (4) the typological problems caused by positing a
three-way contrast in the series of stops of (plain) voiceless ~ (plain) voiced - voiced aspirated,
thus (to use the dentals for illustration): */, *d, *dh. In order to address these problems, Thomas
Gamkrelidze and Vjaceslav Ivanov, on the one hand, and Paul Hopper, on the other,
independently proposed, in 1972 and 1973 respectively, a radical reinterpretation of the Indo-
European stop system. According to Gamkrelidze, Hopper, and Ivanov, the traditional plain
voiced stops are to be reinterpreted as glottalized stops (that is, ejectives). Furthermore,
according to the version of the theory proposed by Gamkrelidze and Ivanov, the traditional plain
voiceless stops are to be reinterpreted as voiceless aspirates, while the traditional voiced aspirates
are to remain unchanged. In this revised interpretation, aspiration is viewed as a phonemically
redundant feature, and the phonemes in question could also be realized as allophonic variants
without aspiration. (For an excellent survey of the Glottalic Theory, cf. Salmons 1993; see also
Vennemann [ed.] 1989.)
As noted in Chapter 3, the system of Gamkrelidze, Hopper, and Ivanov has several clear
advantages over the traditional reconstruction of the Proto-Indo-European stop system:
1. Their reinterpretation of the traditional plain voiced stops as glottalics (ejectives) makes it
easy to account for the fact that the phoneme traditionally reconstructed as *b was highly
marked in the system, being characterized by an extremely low frequency of occurrence (if it
even existed at all). Such a low frequency distribution is extremely uncharacteristic of the
100 5. Indo-European and Nostratic
patterning of the voiced labial stop /b/ in natural languages having a voicing contrast in stops,
but it is fully characteristic of the patterning of the labial ejective /p’/ (cf. Gamkrelidze
1981:605—606; Greenberg 1970:127).
2. Not only does the reinterpretation of the traditional voiced stops as ejectives easily account
for the frequency distribution of these sounds, it also explains the fact that they were used
only very infrequently in inflectional affixes and pronouns, since this type of patterning is
characteristic of the way ejectives behave in natural languages having such sounds.
3. For the first time, the root structure constraint laws can be credibly explained. These
constraints turn out to be a simple voicing agreement rule with the corollary that two
glottalics cannot cooccur in a root. Hopper (1973:160) cites Hausa, Yucatec Mayan, and
Quechua as examples of natural languages exhibiting a similar constraint against the
cooccurrence of two glottalics. Akkadian may be added to this list as well if we take Geers’
Law to be a manifestation of such a constraint (cf. Bomhard 1984:135).
4. The so-called Germanic and Armenian “consonant shifts” (in German, “Lautver-
schiebungen”), which can only be accounted for very awkwardly within the traditional
framework (cf. Emonds 1972:108—122), turn out to be mirages. Under the revised
reconstruction, these branches (perhaps along with the poorly-attested Thracian and Phrygian
as well) turn out to be relic areas.
Strong support for this theory is provided by comparison of Indo-European with
Kartvelian and Afroasiatic, both of which have a three-way contrast, in the series of stops and
affricates, of voiceless (aspirated) ~ globalized ~ voiced. According to my views on Nostratic,
though not according to the views of Illic-Svityc and Dolgopolsky, the Indo-European globalized
stops (the traditional plain voiced stops) correspond exactly to globalized stops in Kartvelian and
Afroasiatic, while the voiceless (aspirated) stops in Indo-European correspond to identical
sounds in Kartvelian and Afroasiatic, and the voiced (aspirated) stops of Indo-European
correspond to voiced stops in Kartvelian and Afroasiatic (for details, see the table of sound
correspondences given at the end of Chapter 4). It should be noted that the voiced aspirates were
probably a late development in Indo-European, and this series may be assumed to have originally
been characterized by plain voicing, without aspiration.
Traditional Indo-European Gamkrelidze and Ivanov
p b bh Pt
h
] P’ bp]
t d dh tp] t’ dp]
k g gh m k’ gp]
kw
g
w
g
wh kw
[
h
] k’w gwp]
After reviewing the arguments both for and against the Glottalic Theory, Schwink (1994:63—64)
concludes (the emphasis is his):
5. Indo-European and Nostratic 1 0
1
As was noted, the Glottalic Theory spearheaded to a large extent the current debate on typology
and reconstruction methodology. It incorporates well the various problems involved in using the
framework. The universals involved are not absolute so that opponents invoke the few exceptions
as proof that the method is fallacious. However, the number of agreements of the new
interpretations with both synchronic and diachronic patterns, if not proving the Glottalic Theory
beyond all doubts, certainly put it high in probability. Of course, those opponents of the Glottalic
Theory who follow a formulaic approach to the process of reconstruction in general are in a
different business from the followers of the Theory who are attempting to capture some measure
of realism.
6
The Nostratic Homeland and the
Dispersal of the Nostratic Languages
6.1. Overview
Here, we run into potentially serious problems, for we must turn to other disciplines such
as archeology. Archeological data provide the raw material from which archeologists construct
theories about the past. The problem is that the raw material is hardly ever complete, but rather it
is limited by what has happened to survive, usually products of manual skill and craftsmanship.
This means that the theories derived from the controlled analysis of the raw material involve a
good deal of interpretation on the part of the observer — one’s view of the past will be directly
conditioned to a greater or lesser degree by the theoretical framework within which one operates
as well as by one’s prejudices in addition to the type of evidence employed. (To complicate
matters, many of these same problems occur in the field of Linguistics [cf. Labov 1994:10—11].)
Moreover, when dealing with pre-literate cultures, there is seldom a clear-cut correlation between
linguistic groups and culture, and cultural spread does not always mean language spread, even
when migration of people takes place — individuals or small groups of individuals moving
peacefully to a new territory may simply be assimilated into the dominant population group.
One could cite the example of the many ancient Greek trading colonies established on the shores
of the Mediterranean and Black Seas, which were eventually absorbed into the surrounding
communities. On the other hand, language spread can occur with a relatively small migration of
people when the language belongs to conquerors or to those bearing a more technologically
advanced culture — both these factors were involved, for example, in the spread of Latin to the
Iberian Peninsula, Gaul, and Dacia, where modem-day Romance languages are found, nearly all
of the indigenous languages existing at the time of the Roman conquest having been replaced
(Basque is an exception). Another example would be the spread of Turkic languages across
Central Asia, mostly replacing the Iranian languages that were spoken there at the time of the
appearance of the Turkic tribes (Tajik [also called Tadzhik] is an exception). It goes without
saying that written records, when combined with the surviving relics of material culture, give a
much broader view of earlier communities and reduce the need for speculation/interpretation.
Even when no written records exist, however, the analysis of the lexicon of a reconstructed
proto-language can give a clue to the material culture of the speakers of that language — this
endeavor is referred to as “linguistic paleontology” or “paleolinguistics”.
The question of where the probable homeland of the Nostratic proto-language is to be
located is directly related to the locations of the homelands of each of the daughter languages.
Since there is a fair amount of controversy surrounding this subject, it is necessary to survey
1 04 6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages
current theories and to select the scenarios that seem most likely in view of linguistic,
archeological, and anthropological evidence, while mindful of the problems expressed in the
preceding paragraph. Let us look at each of the daughter languages in turn.
6.2. Indo-European
At the present time, there are two main competing theories regarding the Indo-European
homeland: (1) according to the first theory, championed by the late Marija Gimbutas and a large
number of supporters, the Indo-European homeland was located to the north of and between the
Black and Caspian Seas and has been broadly identified with the “Kurgan Culture”; (2) another
view, made popular by Colin Renfrew, would place the Indo-European homeland in Anatolia —
similar views were put forth by Gamkrelidze—Ivanov in the second volume of their massive
1984 work (in English translation) Indo-European and the Indo-Europeans: A Reconstruction
and Historical Typological Analysis of a Protolanguage and a Proto-Culture (an English
translation of this work has just been published), by Krantz (1988), and by Dolgopolsky (1988).
Renfrew tries to link the spread of Indo-European languages in Europe with the spread of
agriculture. According to Gimbutas, the period of Indo-European unity is to be placed at around
4,500 BCE, while Renfrew would place the date considerably earlier at around 7,000 BCE.
The following objections may be raised against the theory of an Anatolian homeland for
Indo-European:
1 . There are no unambiguous references to Indo-Europeans in written records from the ancient
Near East until just before 2,000 BCE, and the first references are to Hittites. Moreover, the
Hittites were most definitely invaders (cf. Gamkrelidze 1970; Mellaart 1981; Puhvel 1994;
Steiner 1990) who imposed themselves on populations speaking Caucasian languages — it is
generally agreed that Hittite replaced Hattie, which is thought to be a Caucasian language (cf.
Diakonoff 1990:63). Another language widely-spoken in Anatolia at the time that the Hittite
texts were composed was Human, which, along with the later and closely-related Urartean,
has been convincingly shown by Diakonoff and Starostin (1986) to be a Northeast Caucasian
language. Thus, it appears that the earliest inhabitants of Anatolia were speakers of
Caucasian languages and that the Indo-Europeans were intrusive — Diakonoff (1990:62
—
63) places the Hurro-Urartean language in eastern Anatolia at least as far back as the third
millennium BCE. Furthermore, attempts to equate other groups (Gutians, for example)
referred to in cuneiform texts with Indo-Europeans are based upon such scanty evidence as to
be meaningless (Diakonoff [1990:63] claims that the Gutians [Qutians] were Caucasian).
2. An Anatolian homeland for Indo-European makes it difficult to account for the extensive
evidence for contact between Indo-European and Uralic (cf. Haarmann 1994; Joki 1973).
3. Anthony (1991 : 198—201) argues that the linguistic evidence confirms the existence of four-
wheeled vehicles among the Indo-Europeans. Archeological evidence indicates that four-
wheeled vehicles appeared in Europe no earlier than 3,300 - 3,100 BCE. The correlation of
6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages 1 05
the linguistic and archeological evidence brought forth by Anthony rules out a date for Indo-
European unity as early as that proposed by Renfrew and suggests that “the PIE language
community remained relatively intact until at least 3,300 BC”. Moreover, the association of
the Indo-Europeans with the domestication of horses and with the development of four-
wheeled vehicles definitely points to a North Pontic/Steppe homeland as opposed to an
Anatolian homeland. I will have more to say about this below.
The literature supporting a North Pontic/Steppe homeland for Indo-European is extensive
and begins as far back as 1926 with the publication of V. Gordon Guide’s book The Aryans: A
Study of Indo-European Origins. Rather than presenting all of the arguments and evidence, I
will summarize my own views. For detailed information on the theory of a North Pontic/Steppe
homeland, Mallory’s 1989 book In Search of the Indo-Europeans: Language, Archaeology and
Myth should be consulted as should the 1990 volume co-edited by Thomas Markey and John A.
C. Greppin entitled When Worlds Collide: Indo-European and Pre-Indo-Europeans. The
Bellagio Papers and the 1987 volume honoring Marija Gimbutas co-edited by Susan Skomal and
Edgar Polome entitled Proto-Indo-European: The Archaeology ofa Linguistic Problem. Studies
in Honor of Marija Gimbutas. Finally, many notable articles on the subject have appeared in
issues of the Journal ofIndo-European Studies, including numerous articles by Marija Gimutas
herself, as well as in Current Anthopology, to name two of the more important journals.
In an unpublished paper of major significance, Johanna Nichols (1993) has argued that
the earliest Indo-European speech community (“Pre-Indo-European”) was located in Central
Asia. She proposes that Pre-Indo-European spread westward across the steppes, eventually
arriving on the northeastern shores of the Black Sea. I support this scenario. I would place the
Pre-Indo-Europeans in Central Asia at about 7,000 BCE, and I would date the arrival of the Pre-
Indo-Europeans in the vicinity of the Black Sea at about 5,000 BCE. Though it is not known
what language or languages were spoken in the area before the arrival of Indo-European-
speaking people, it is known that the Pre-Indo-Europeans were not the first inhabitants of the
area. According to Kosko (1991:252), archeological evidence points to cultural influence
spreading from the Caucasian-Pontic zone to the area of the Vistula-Oder in the earliest Neolithic
(around 7,000 BCE). The direction of influence was subsequently reversed, and there appears to
have been a movement of people from west to east into the Pontic area. 1 would equate this
reversal with the arrival of the Pre-Indo-Europeans. I will venture a guess that when the Pre-
Indo-Europeans arrived on the shores of the Black Sea, they encountered and occupied territory
formerly inhabited by Caucasian-speaking people. This disrupted the pre-existing cultural link
between the Caucasian-Pontic zone and the Vistula-Oder area and resulted in a displacement of
Caucasian languages southward toward the Caucasus Mountains. That there was contact
between Indo-Europeans and Caucasians is supported by a number of shared vocabulary items
between Indo-European and Northwest Caucasian. Among these are (this is but a small
sampling; I have taken the Northwest Caucasian examples exclusively from Kuiper’s A
Dictionary ofProto-Circassian Roots — it is the only work available to me. Now, I realize full
well that Circassian is but one branch of Northwest Caucasian. Therefore adjustments may have
to be made to the comparisons I am proposing on the basis of evidence from the remaining
1 06 6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages
branches of Northwest Caucasian) (the Proto-Indo-European reconstructions are in accordance
with Gamkrelidze—Ivanov’s system):
1. Proto-Circassian *q'°atha “to tell, to report; to announce, to make known” ~ Proto-Indo-
European *k’wet[h]-/*k’wotP']- “to say, to speak, to call” (cf. Pokomy 1959:480—481 *gpet-
“to talk”: Gothic qipan “to say”; Old English cwepan “to say, to speak”; Armenian kocem
“to call, to name”).
2. Proto-Circassian *wasa “price” ~ Proto-Indo-European *wes-no-m “price” (cf. Pokomy
1959:1173 *ues- “to buy, to sell”, *ues-no- “price”: Sanskrit vasna-m “price, value”; Latin
venum “sale”; Greek rnvoq [< * wos-no-s] “price”).
3. Proto-Circassian *warda “high-bom” ~ Proto-Indo-European (adj.) *word[h]-o-s “grown,
full-grown, tall, upright”, (adj.) *wrd[h
J-o-s “raised, upright, tall”, (stem) *werd[h]-l
* wordf]-!*wrd[h]- “to raise, to elevate; to grow, to increase” (cf. Pokomy 1959:1167
*uerdh-, *uredh- “to grow”: Sanskrit vardha-h “increasing, growing, thriving”, vrddha-h
“grown, become larger or longer or stronger, increased, augmented, great, large”, vrddhi-h
“growth, increase, augmentation, rise, advancement”).
4. Proto-Circassian *wala “cloud” ~ Proto-Indo-European *wel-/*wol-/*wl- “to moisten, to wet,
to flow”: (extended forms) *wel-k[h]-!*wol-kP1
]-/*wl-k[h
]-, *wel-g[h]-/*wol-g[h]-/*wl-g[h
]~,
*wel-k’-/*wol-k’-/*wI-k’- “to wet, to moisten” (cf. Pokomy 1959:1145—1146 *uelk-, *uelg-
“wet, moist”: Old English weolcen, wolcen “cloud”; German Wolke “cloud”).
5. Proto-Circassian *noba “belly” (note here Temirgoy nobog ’o/bonza “navel”; Ubykh nobog'
“navel”) ~ Proto-Indo-European {*neb[h]-l)*nob[h]- “navel” (cf. Pokomy 1959:314—315
(
[*enebh-), *embh-, *ombh-, *nobh-, ( *nebh
-
?), *mbh- “navel”: Sanskrit nibhi-h “navel”;
Old High German naba “nave, hub (of a wheel)”; Old Prussian nabis “navel”).
6. Proto-Circassian *ban(a) “to fight” ~ Proto-Indo-European *b[h]en- “to slay, to wound” (cf.
Pokomy 1959:126 *bhen- “to slay, to wound”: Gothic banja “strike, blow, wound”; Old
High German bano “death, destruction”).
7. Proto-Circassian *malo “sheep” — Proto-Indo-European *mel- “wool, woolen garment” (cf.
Pokomy 1959:721 *mel- “wool, woolen garment”: Greek pakkoq “a lock of wool, wool”).
8. Proto-Circassian *hawa “but” ~ Proto-Indo-European *hew- [*haw-\ “that, other” (cf.
Pokomy 1959:73—75 *au-, *u- pronoun stem: “that, other”: Gothic auk “but, also”; Latin
au-tem “but, on the other hand”).
6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages 1 07
9. Proto-Circassian *p:oyo “enemy” ~ Proto-Indo-European *p[h]e(y/i)~ “to hurt, to harm, to
attack” (cf. Pokomy 1959:792—793 *pe(i)- “to hurt”: Gothic fijands “enemy”; Old English
feonds “enemy”).
1 0. Proto-Circassian *k 'ano “knucklebone (used in bone game)” ~ Proto-Indo-European *k 'enu-
“knee, joint, angle” (cf. Pokomy 1959:380—381 *genu-, *gneu- “knee”: Sanskrit jinu
“knee”; Latin genu “knee, knot, joint”; Greek yovu “knee, joint”; Gothic kniu “knee”).
1 1 . Proto-Circassian *k’°asa “to go out (as fire, light); to escape, to run away, to desert, to elope”
~ Proto-Indo-European *k’wes- “to extinguish” (cf. Pokomy 1959:479—480 *g“es-, *zgv
es-
“to extinguish”: Lithuanian gesti “to go out, to die out, to become dim”).
12. Proto-Circassian *sama “heap” - Proto-Indo-European *sem-/*som- “together, together with;
one” (originally “to gather together”) (cf Pokomy 1959:902—905 *sem- “one; together”:
Sanskrit sa [< *sm~] “with, together with, along with”, sam “with, together with, along with,
together, altogether”, sa-trd “together, together with”, samana-h “meeting, assembly,
amorous union, embrace”, samubha-h “heap, collection”).
13. Proto-Circassian *gsya “smooth (of ice)” ~ Proto-Indo-European *g[h
Jey- “snow, ice,
winter” (cf Pokomy 1959:425—426 *ghei-, *ghi- “winter, snow”: Sanskrit hima-h “snow,
frost, hoar-frost, winter”, hemanta-h “winter, the cold season”; Greek yicuv “snow; snow-
water, ice-cold water”, xeiga “winter-weather, cold, frost”, xeipcbv “winter; wintry weather, a
winter storm”).
The Armenian linguist Gevork B. Djahukyan (1967) has devoted a book entitled (in English
translation) Interrelations of the Indo-European, Hurrian-Urartean, and Caucasian Languages
to exploring lexical parallels between Indo-European and Caucasian languages. Though dated,
this book can still be used with profit, especially for its bibliography.
Thus, it was the area to the north of and between the Black and Caspian Seas that was
most likely the final homeland of a unified Indo-European parent language. By 3,500 BCE,
Indo-European had begun to split up into different dialect groups, and Indo-European speaking-
people had started to spread westward into Central Europe and southward into the Balkans (cf.
Anthony 1991; Nichols 1993:23—26, §3.5). Gimbutas (1973) suggests similar dating and
identifies the spread of Bronze Age metallurgical technology with the Indo-Europeanization of
Europe. The Indo-European homeland is shown in Map 1, and the dispersal of the Indo-
European languages is shown in Map 2.
6.3. Afroasiatic
So much controversy surrounds the subject of the homeland of Afroasiatic that none of
the proposals advanced to date can be considered definitive. Diakonoff (1988:23—25) presents a
1 08 6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages
summary of several of the proposals — his own view is that Afroasiatic (his “Afrasian”) was
located in the “South-Eastern Sahara (say, between Tibesti and Darfur)”. Another hypothesis has
been advanced by Yuri Militarev. According to Militarev, the original Afroasiatic homeland was
in the Middle East and the Arabian peninsula (cf. Diakonoff 1988:24). Diakonoff (1988:32, fn.
14) further clarifies Militarev’ s views:
A more precise identification was proposed by Militarev and sustained from the archaeological
and historical side by V. Shnirelman. In their opinion, the Proto-Afrasian speakers were the
Natufians of the well-known early Neolithic culture of the Palestinian-Syrian area.
In my opinion, Militarev’s proposals have great merit. Henry (1992:182—184) notes that
“Natufian assemblages are remarkably well-dated because of multiple lines of evidence tied to
radiocarbon dates, stratigraphic successions, and artifact seriation”. Henry dates the earliest
Natufian finds to 10,900 BCE and the latest to 7,800 BCE (he actually says [1992:184] “as early
as about 12,900 years ago to as late as about 9,800 years ago”). The earlier date agrees
extremely well with the date assigned to the Afroasiatic parent language (approximately 10,000
BCE [that is, 12,000 years ago] according to Diakonoff [1988:33, fh. 15]). The following
scenario may be proposed: Afroasiatic is sufficiently different from other Nostratic languages to
suggest that it was the first branch to split off from the rest of the Nostratic speech community —
some have even suggested that Proto-Afroasiatic might be a sister language to Proto-Nostratic
rather than a daughter language. Proto-Afroasiatic may be dated at roughly 10,000 BCE (though
a little earlier is also possible), and the Afroasiatic homeland may be placed in the Middle East in
an area bordering the eastern shores of the Mediterranean Sea, stretching from modern-day Syria
through Lebanon and south into Israel (that is, the Levant) — if Militarev and Shnirelman are
correct, the Natufian cultural complex may be identified with the Afroasiatic parent language.
By 8,000 BCE, Afroasiatic had begun to split up into various dialect groups and had spread
southward into the Arabian peninsula and southwestward across the Sinai peninsula into northern
Africa. A northern and eastern spread followed the fertile crescent, initially as far as northern
and eastern Syria —it was this dialect group that eventually developed into Proto-Semitic, which
Diakonoff (1988:25) dates to the 6th-5th millennia BCE. Further spread took Afroasiatic
languages southward down through the Arabian Peninsula, across the Bab el Mandeb, and into
the Horn of Africa, westward across northern Africa, and then southward across the Sahara
Desert into what is today the area bordering northern and northeastern Nigeria around Lake
Chad. See also Renfrew (1992:472) and Cavalli-Sforza et al. (1994:171 —174) on the spread of
Afroasiatic languages. Map 3 shows the distribution of the Afroasiatic languages at about 500
BCE (this is adapted from Cohen [ed.] 1988:viii).
Archeological remains in the Levant (Syria-Lebanon-Israel coast and slightly inland) go
back to Paleolithic times. The Levant is made up of a combination of mountains, plains, valleys,
and coastal lowlands cramped into a rather small geographical area. There is plentiful evidence
from Mesolithic hunter-gatherer societies. The earliest Neolithic settlements (such as Jericho,
which is still inhabited) date to at least 9,000 BCE. Several noteworthy, partially sequential,
partially overlapping Neolithic cultural complexes have been identified, namely, the Mushabian,
the Geometric Kebaran, and the Natufian (for details, cf. Henry 1992). The dating for these is as
6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages 1 09
follows: Mushabian: between 14,170 B.P. and 11,700 B.P. (Henry 1992:125); Geometric
Kebaran: between 14,330 B.P. and 12,610 B.P. (Henry 1992:155); Natufian between 12,500 and
10,500 B.P. (Henry 1992:182 — earlier dates are given in Cavalli-Sforza et al. 1994:214). It is
the Natufians who are associated with the development of agriculture. Neolithic remains from
the Levant are dated well into the 5th millennium BCE. Apparently, the topography of the
Levant did not favor the establishment of large, unified states, since the archeological record
points to numerous, autonomous or semi-autonomous city-states instead — by the 3rd
millennium BCE, there were many such city-states. The Levant stood at the cross-roads between
the mighty empires in Egypt and Mesopotamia — it was an area made rich by trade, an area
coveted by competing neighbors, an area with a rich and varied literature, an area that gave birth
to great religions, and an area with a long and colorful history. The archeological data from the
Levant are extremely rich and have been fairly intensively studied and dated, though it will still
take ages to sift through it all.
The topography of Mesopotamia is varied: the east is bounded by the Zagros mountains
and the Iranian Plateau, the center is dominated by the plains surrounding the Tigris and
Euphrates Rivers, the south is dominated by alluvial plains, and the west is semi-arid / desert.
Several major shifts in climatic conditions have taken place over the past 15,000 years.
Permanent settlements associated with agriculture and stock herding date as far back as 8,000
BCE. At this period, settlements were relatively small. By 6,000 BCE, agriculture was well-
established, and larger villages appeared. Slightly later, major cultural centers (such as Eridu)
emerge, trade flourishes, and wealth and population increase. Pictographic writing begins to
appear at around 3,500 BCE, and this slowly develops into the cuneiform syllabary. The earliest
recorded language was Sumerian — the Sumerians were located in central and southern
Mesopotamia. Semitic people were located in the immediate north and west. The earliest
recorded Semitic language was Akkadian. Further north, in modern-day Turkey, Caucasian
languages were spoken. There were also several languages of unknown affiliation (such as
Kassitic). References: Diakonoff 1988; Henry 1992; Nissen 1988.
Another scenario, proposed by Martin Bernal, associates the final disintegration of the
Afroasiatic parent language with the Khartoum Mesolithic and locates the latest Afroasiatic
homeland in modern-day Sudan. Bernal (1980:4) notes that “archeological evidence from the
Maghreb, the Sudan, and east Africa [makes it seem] permissible to postulate that at least three
branches of Afroasiatic existed by the eighth millennium [BCE]”. Thus, he (1980:13) dates the
breakup of Proto-Afroasiatic to no later than about 8,000 BCE, after which there was a rapid
expansion outward in all directions.
Bernal (1980:17) further notes that “[t]he earliest evidence of the Khartoum Mesolithic
comes from the East African Rift Valley in Kenya and Ethiopia”. The precursor of the Khartoum
Mesolithic seems to have been the Kenya Capsian culture, which began as far back as 20,000
years ago. This implies that the earliest homeland of Pre-Proto-Afroasiatic is to be sought in
Ethiopia, and Bernal (1980:46—59) proposes just such a scenario.
The implications of Bernal’s views are enormous. Though his views are highly
speculative, they are by no means implausible. Should they turn out to be true, it would give
substantial weight to the arguments that Afroasiatic is to be viewed as a sister language to Proto-
Nostratic rather than a descendant.
110 6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages
6.4. Kartvelian
At the present time, the Kartvelian (also called “South Caucasian”) languages are located
in the Republic of Georgia, except for Laz, which is spoken in Lazistan, Turkey. Georgian has
the most speakers, while Svan is the most conservative. As is to be expected by its more archaic
nature, Svan was the first language to split from the rest of the Kartvelian speech community
(Georgian, Mingrelian, and Laz). According to Gamkrelidze—Macavariani (1982:23—24),
Klimov, using glottochronology, has dated this split at 2,000 BCE. The next split was between
Georgian and Laz-Mingrelian (together called “Zan”), which has been dated at 800 BCE. This
chronology would mean positing a rather shallow time depth for Proto-Kartvelian, in vicinity of
4,000—3,000 BCE. However, in view of the apparent contacts between Proto-Kartvelian and
Proto-Indo-European (cf. Gamkrelidze 1966, 1967, and 1970:141), Proto-Kartvelian must have
been roughly contemporaneous with Proto-Indo-European, which would imply a slightly earlier
date. Therefore, I very hesitatingly suggest a date of around 5,000 BCE for Proto-Kartvelian. It
is certain, at the very least, that Kartvelians were in their current location by that date.
Gamkrelidze—Ivanov (1995:777, fn. 19) discuss the questions of the Kartvelian
homeland and the dating of the proto-language in detail:
Proto-Kartvelian (South Caucasian) dates to the fourth to the third millennia B.C.
Glottochronological evidence puts the beginning of its differentiation in the very early second
millennium B.C. (and possibly much earlier), at which time Svan separated out and Proto-
Kartvelian divided into two separate areas, Svan and Georgian-Zan, the latter subsequently
splitting into Georgian and Zan (or Colchidian)...
Proto-Kartvelian prior to its breakup must be placed, on the evidence of archaic lexical
and toponymic data, in the mountainous regions of the western and central part of the Little
Caucasus (the Transcaucasian foothills). The first wave of Kartvelian migrations to the west and
northwest, in the direction of the Colchidian plains, must have begun with one of the western
dialects in the third millennium B.C. and led to the formation of Svan, which spread to the western
Transcaucasus and was superimposed on local languages, probably of the Northwest Caucasian
type, which thus became substratal to Svan. Svan was gradually displaced to the north, to the
Great Caucasus range, by the next wave of migrations, which occurred approximately nine
centuries later (on glottochronological evidence) and removed the westernmost remaining dialect
as far as the Black Sea coast. This western dialect gave rise to the later Colchidian — or Zan, or
Mingrelian-Laz — language, one of the languages of ancient Colchis.
The dialects which remained in the ancient Kartvelian homeland underlie Georgian. In
historical times, speakers of Georgian spread to the west, to part of the Colchidian territory,
splitting the Colchidian language into two dialects and setting up the development of Mingrelian
and Laz (Chan) into independent languages. They also spread to the north and northeast,
displacing languages of the Northeast Caucasian type.
These Kartvelian migrations triggered the breakup of Proto-Kartvelian and the expansion
of its dialects beyond the original territory.
Nichols (1993:47—51, §6.2) speculates that Pre-Kartvelian originated in Central Asia,
near Pre-Indo-European, and that it spread westward along a southern route below the Caspian
Sea, eventually reaching its present location, where it stayed.
6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages 1 1
1
6.5. Uralic-Yukaghir
There is general agreement about the homeland of Uralic —Decsy (1990:9), for example,
places the Uralic proto-language “in the Forest-Zone-Steppe-Border (mainly north of it) between
the Volga Bend in Eastern Russia and the Ob River in Western Siberia” (see also Hajdu
[1972:17—23] for a discussion of the Uralic homeland and [1975:30—40] for both Uralic and
Finno-Ugrian; see also Collinder [1965:28—30]).
The date at which the unified Uralic parent language is thought to have been spoken is
usually given as approximately 4,000 BCE, while bringing in Yukaghir pushes that date back
another millennium or so and moves the homeland slightly to the east. Nichols (1993:38, §5.1,
and 47—51, §6.2) also sees Pre-Uralic as having spread westward and northward from Central
Asia, slightly just ahead of the westward movement of Pre-Indo-European. Pre-Uralic took a
more northerly route, while Pre-Indo-European took a more southerly route directly across the
steppes.
A number of scholars have claimed that Indo-European and Uralic are more closely
related to each other than either of them is to any other language or language family, while others
have claimed that Uralic and Altaic are particularly close, even going so far as to set up a Ural-
Altaic language family. The Ural-Altaic hypothesis is generally no longer supported by
specialists in the field. The Indo-Uralic hypothesis, however, may indeed have some validity. I
would very, very tentatively set up an Indo-Uralic subbranch within Eurasiatic, suggest that
Indo-Uralic be located in Central Asia not far from the Aral Sea, and place the date of Indo-
Uralic at around 7,000 BCE. This is definitely an area that requires additional research. We will
close by citing Collinder’s (1965:29—30) tantalizing remarks:
As we shall see later, Uralic and Indo-European seem to have several words in common.
If these words were borrowed from Common Indo-European, the speakers of Common Uralic
must have been the neighbors of the speakers of Common Indo-European. If we account for them
by assuming that Uralic and Indo-European are interrelated, we arrive at the conclusion that the
Uralians and the Indo-Europeans once had a common Urheimat. Both alternatives imply that the
Indo-Europeans lived to the north of the Black Sea, and the Uralians lived to the north of them.
6.6. Elamo-Dravidian
Proto-Dravidian may be dated at approximately 5,000 BCE — Zvelebil (1970:18), for
instance, notes that by 4,000 BCE, Dravidian had already started to break up into different dialect
groups, Brahui being the first group to split off from the main speech community (note: the
dates proposed by Pejros—Shnirelman [1988] are far too shallow [for example, they place Proto-
Elamo-Dravidian at the 5th-4th millennia BCE], considering that Elamite is already attested as a
separate language in written records [so-called “Proto-Elamite” — assumed to be Elamite but as
yet undeciphered] as early as the Jemdet Nasr period, that is, around 3,000 BCE [cf. Reiner
1969:56], though it is not until considerably later, after the adoption of cuneiform by the
Elamites, that abundant records begin to appear [the earliest document in cuneiform is the so-
112 6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages
called “Treaty of Naram-Sin”, which is dated at just before 2,200 BCE]). At the present time,
the overwhelming majority of Dravidian languages are located in the southern half of the Indian
subcontinent and in the northern part of Sri Lanka, though a few outliers are found to the
northwest and northeast of the main body of Dravidian languages — Brahui, for instance, is
spoken in the Qalat, Hairpur, and Hyderabad districts of Pakistan (plus a smaller number of
speakers in Iran and southern Afghanistan), while Kurux is spoken in the districts of Bihar,
Orissa, and Madhya Pradesh, and Malto near the borders of Bihar and West Bengal (cf. Zvelebil
1970:15—18; Ruhlen 1987:136—137). We may note in passing that the inscriptions of the
Indus Valley (Harappan) Civilization may have been written in an early Dravidian language (cf.
Fairservis 1992:14—23 and Parpola 1994; but see also Zide—Zvelebil [eds.] 1976 for a critical
assessment of earlier Soviet attempts to decipher the Indus Valley script).
David McAlpin (1981) has presented convincing evidence for a genetic relationship
between Elamite and Dravidian, and the majority of scholars now accept this view (though there
are still some holdouts!). I will suggest a date of 8,000 BCE for Proto-Elamo-Dravidian, though
a bit later (say, 7,000 BCE) is also possible. Elamite, which is now extinct, was located
primarily in southwestern Iran, in the vicinity of the Zagros mountains as well as the adjacent
plains of Khuzistan and to the south along the coast of the Persian Gulf. There is good reason to
believe that Elamite once occupied nearly all of the Iranian plateau.
Pejros—Shnirelman (1988) accept the Elamo-Dravidian hypothesis. They argue for a
“western origin” of the Dravidian languages “somewhere in the Middle East”. After the
disintegration of Proto-Elamo-Dravidian, “the Dravidian languages could begin to spread
eastwards to South Asia”. Though, as noted above, their dating is questionable, the scenario they
propose for the spread of Dravidian languages into India is plausible. Thus, the Elamo-Dravidian
homeland may be placed roughly in western and central modern-day Iran at about 8,000 BCE.
Elamo-Dravidian gradually spread eastward covering all of the Iranian plateau and extending
into modern-day Pakistan and northwestern India. There was then an east-west split, with Proto-
Elamite developing in the western area and Proto-Dravidian developing in the eastern area.
Thus, the Dravidian homeland may be placed in Pakistan and northwestern India and dated at
about 5,000 BCE, from which Dravidian languages spread southward into India proper. The
invasion of Indo-Aryans (occurring in several phases during the period of about 1,700-1,400
BCE [cf. Burrow 1973:30—34]) drove the Dravidians fiirther south and severed the geographical
links between Brahui, Kurux, and Malto and the main body of Dravidian languages. Similar
views are expressed by Cavalli-Sforza et al. 1994:221 —222.
Pejros—Shnirelman (1988) correlate the movement of the Dravidian languages into India
with archeological evidence of the Neolithic and Chalcolithic. After surveying faunal and floral
terminology in Central-Southern Dravidian languages, they discuss agricultural and stock-raising
terminology. This combined evidence confirms a high level of agriculture in West-Central India
by about 2,000 BCE. They associate this area and culture with the homeland of Central-
Southern Dravidian. This is the region from which Central-Southern Dravidian languages spread
eastward and southward. They also note that the archeological evidence as well as linguistic
reconstructions indicate that arable farming was widespread in the western South Asian regions
already by the late third millennium BCE and that both the “Harappans and the Chalcolithic
6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages 113
inhabitants of Central India and Maharashtra kept goats, sheep, humped cattle, buffaloes, pigs,
and dogs”.
Neolithic settlements in Iran (Tepe Ganj Dareh, for example) have been dated to before
7,000 BCE. The dwellings from this period were constructed of sun-dried mud bricks, and the
inhabitants herded goats and produced lightly-fired pottery. In the 5th and 4th millennia BCE,
the settlements had grown to large towns — Susa had already been established (Susa was the
capital of Elam). At that time, the western part of Iran was under the influence of the Ubaid and
Uruk cultures of Mesopotamia. Though it is probably safe to say that an early form of Elamite
was the language of western and southern Iran (and most likely well to the east) by this time,
Caucasian languages were spoken in the northwest of Iran on into modem-day Turkey (as
evidenced by the later Hurrian and Urartean). By the 3rd millennium BCE, there were several
Bronze Age cultures in Iran. In the west and south, the Elamite kingdom had been established —
it lasted until it was destroyed by the Assyrians in 640 BCE. As noted above, the earliest “Proto-
Elamite” inscriptions date to this period. To the north of Elam, in what is currently central and
western Iran, the Giyan culture was flourishing — it lasted nearly a thousand years. Another
noteworthy cultural center (at sites such as Sharh-i Sokhte and Tepe Yahya) existed in
southeastern Iran, not far from the Indus Valley (Harappan) Civilization. In the middle of the
2nd millennium BCE, Persian tribes began invading from the northeast, and, by 1,200 BCE, they
had conquered nearly all of Iran.
The India-Pakistan cultural area is enormous and has always been heterogeneous — even
at present there is tremendous variety. In the 3rd millennium, Baluchistan and northwestern
India were part of the vast Mesopotamian-Iranian-Indus Valley cultural complex. Copper-
working agriculturalists were living in well-built villages. Trade routes were thriving. By 2,500
BCE, the Indus Valley (Harappan) Civilization was well-established — it extended over most of
Baluchistan, north well into Punjab, and south as far as the Gulf of Cambay. Indo-Aryan tribes
began invading from the northwest at about 1,700 BCE. Given the geography, claims that the
Indus Valley inscriptions were written in an early form of Dravidian are likely to be true.
Reference: Dani—Masson (eds.) 1992.
6.7. Altaic
At the present time, Altaic languages cover an enormous territory, beginning with Turkey
in the west; stretching eastward across the Russian Federation and the republics of Central Asia
in the middle and across nearly all of northern Siberia; encompassing all of Mongolia, parts of
northern, northwestern (Xinjiang) and northeastern China (Manchuria); reaching down into the
Korean peninsula; and ending far to the east in Japan. The spread of Turkic and Mongolian
languages across vast stretches of Eurasia has occurred within the past two millennia — the first
westward forays of Altaic tribes began with the Huns, going as far back as Roman times (Nichols
[1993] gives a good overview of the spread of Turkic and Mongolian languages; see also Menges
1968:16—53). (Manchu-)Tungus languages were once more widely spoken but have lost
considerable ground fairly recently.
114 6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages
In the middle of the first millennium BCE, Turkic tribes were concentrated in the vicinity
of modern-day Mongolia and just to the north, while Mongolian tribes were immediate neighbors
to the east, south, and southeast. Tungus tribes were to the north and northeast. Indo-European
languages covered most of Central Asia (Iranian) and parts of Xinjiang (Tocharian). To the
extreme northeast were Chukchi-Kamchatkan peoples. Prior to their expansion westward,
Altaic-speaking people had lived for millennia in the area delimited above in small pastoral
nomadic tribes, apparently freely intermingling with one another.
Menges (1968:56—57) specifies the original geographical distribution of the Altaic
languages as follows:
Not discussing here the position of Korean, and not including it in the Altajic group of
languages proper, this group originally comprised four large families:
I. Hunnic, originally in the southwest and south of the Altajic area, although we know so
little about it that we include it in Altajic mainly because it apparently survives in Volga-
Bulgarian and present-day TavaS;
II. Turkic, originally in the northwest and west;
III. Mongolian, in the center and southeast; and
IV. Tungus, in the north and northeast.
Of all of these, Turkic represents the most recent evolutionary type, while Mongolian,
though more archaic than Turkic, nevertheless shows a more recent type of development than
does Tungus, which is the most archaic type of Altajic, and thus serves as an excellent “time-
table” for relative evolutionary age in Altajic.
For the times prior to the separation and differentiation from the primordial nucleus
groups of Altajic, which were later to become the four Altajic divisions mentioned above, a
habitat must be assumed which probably comprised all of the Central Asiatic steppes, so that the
term “Altajic” lanaguages is actually justified, since it designates that group of languages spoken
around the Altaj Mountains, in a wider sense of the term, in this case on the steppes extending to
the south around the Altaj . .
.
6.8. Others
1. Sumerian, which is now extinct, was spoken in southern Mesopotamia (modern-day Iraq),
extending from Babylon in its northernmost limits to the tip of the Persian Gulf in the south.
From the time of the earliest texts, several dialects can be distinguished, the most important
of which was Emesal, most probably “women’s speech”, which Boisson (1992:434—435)
argues was more conservative than the main dialect, Emegir. The earliest Sumerian
inscriptions date from around 3,100 BCE, though the oldest intelligible texts date from about
2,600 BCE, and the language was probably still spoken as late as the 3rd century BCE. The
Sumerian writing system was based exclusively on the cuneiform syllabary, which exhibits
several marked stages of development over the course of Sumerian literary history. After
about 1,900 BCE, Akkadian (a Semitic language) began to replace Sumerian in letters and
administrative texts, though Sumerian continued to be used in cultic and literary texts.
2. The Chukchi-Kamchatkan family includes the following languages: Chukchi, Koryak,
Kerek, Alyutor, and Kamchadal (also called Itelmen or Itelmic). Koryak, Kerek, and Alyutor
6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages 1 1
5
are extremely close as a group, and these, in turn, are close to Chukchi. Kamchadal, which is
now on the verge of extinction, stands apart from the others. The Chukchi-Kamchatkan
languages are found in the extreme northeast comer of Siberia in the Chukota and Kamchatka
peninsulas. Though written languages were developed for Chukchi, Koryak, and Kamchadal
in the 1930’s, only Chukchi is still being used in publications and education.
3. Gilyak (also called Nivkh) is usually considered to be a single language, but the two main
dialects, namely, the Amur dialect, on the one hand, and the Sakhalin (or Eastern) dialect, on
the other, are not mutually intelligible. Of the two, the Sakhalin dialect is the more archaic.
The Gilyaks are found on the lower reaches of the Amur River and on Sakhalin Island.
Though a written language was developed for the Amur dialect in the 1930’s, next to nothing
has appeared in it.
4. As the name implies, Eskimo-Aleut has two branches: Eskimo and Aleut. The Aleut dialects
are mutually intelligible. However, this is not the case with the Eskimo dialects. Two main
Eskimo dialect groups are distinguished, namely, Yupik and Inuit (also called Inupiaq).
Yupik speakers are concentrated in southwestern Alaska, beginning at Norton Sound and
extending southward along the western and southern coasts and inland. An extremely small
enclave of Yupik speakers is found in northeastern Siberia as well — the result of a fairly
recent migration. Inuit speakers are found north of Norton Sound all the way to the northern
coast of Alaska and extending eastward across all of the northernmost parts of Canada and on
into Greenland. Aleut is spoken on the Aleutian Islands and the Commander Islands.
6.9. Nostratic
Now that we have surveyed the homelands and/or present locations of the Nostratic
daughter languages, we are in a position to try to determine the probable homeland of Nostratic
itself. Before beginning, however, let us quote what Aaron Dolgopolsky, John C. Kems, and
Henrik Bimbaum have to say about Nostratic in general, about its structure, about its dating, and
about its homeland —this will set the stage for what follows.
First, Dolgopolsky (1994:2838):
The [Nostratic] parent language had, most probably, an analytical grammatical structure
with a strict word order (sentence-fmal predicate; object preceding the verb; nonpronominal
attribute preceding the head; a special position for unstressed pronouns) and with grammatical
meaning expressed by word order and auxiliary words (e.g., postpositions: *nu for genitive, *ma
for marked accusative, and others). In the descendant languages this analytic grammar evolved
towards a synthetic one. The phonological system (reconstructed by V. Illic-Svityc (1971 —84)
and A. Dolgopolsky (1989) in the framework of a Nostratic historical phonology) included a rich
consonantism (with threefold opposition of voiced/voiceless/glottalized [ejective] stops and
affricates, with three series of sibilants and affricates, with lateral obstruents, laryngeal,
pharyngeal, and uvular consonants), and a vowel system of 7 vowels. The ancient Nostratic
parent language seems to have existed in the pre-neolithic period (up to ca. 15,000 or 12,000 BC)
somewhere in southwest Asia. But most descendant proto-languages (e.g., Proto-Indo-European)
116 6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages
existed during the neolithic period (with agriculture and husbandry, resulting in a demographic
explosion, which can explain their spread throughout Eurasia and the northern half of Africa).
John C. Kerns (Bomhard—Kerns 1994:153—156) is considerably more specific, not only
about the location of the homeland of Nostratic but also about the pre-neolithic environment
existing at the time. Therefore, we will quote him at length:
1 believe that Nostratic languages did not exist except as a part of Dene-Caucasian until
the waning of the Wiirm glaciation, some 15,000 years ago. At this time the glacial ice began a
rapid retreat all along the Northern fringe of Eurasia. In Europe, the effect was particularly
dramatic, where the ice had been piled to impressive heights with moisture received from the
Atlantic. Huge lakes developed from the melt water, particularly in the lowlands of Southern
Russia, and new rivers were eroded into being, to both feed and drain the lakes, and to drain the
Northern slopes of Eurasia as they came into view. As the new lands emerged, sub-Arctic winds
whipped up the dust of rocks, which had been ground by the movements of glacial ice, and carried
it Southward into the newly emerging forests. Most of the dust was deposited in the valleys near
rivers, forming the basis of the fertile loess soils that later proved so attractive to early Neolithic
farmers with their techniques of slash and bum and their casual herding of domesticated animals.
These people included the Chinese in Asia, and also the Indo-Europeans in the Balkans and later
in Central Europe with the Linear Pottery expansion around 5000 BCE, and in the lands radiating
Northward and Eastward from there.
By 10,000 BCE, the Northern half of Eurasia and North America had been transformed.
Formerly glacial and sub-Arctic lands were now temperate forests; only the Circumpolar fringe
was still Arctic or sub-Arctic. The great herds of large Arctic mammals had been replaced by
more solitary game, and fish abounded in the lakes and streams. People of (ultimately)
Aurignacian ancestry adapted their equipment and techniques to take advantage of the new
opportunities. The small-blade stone working of the Aurignacians and their successors was
refined and elaborated to provide a varied array of new tools and weapons by setting these
“microliths” in handles of wood or antler. Greater use was made of bows and arrows (with
microlith tips), and dogs were used in the hunt and for food. Fishing industries were established
in the rivers and lakes, and particularly in the Baltic, involving nets, boats and bait lines.
As always in hunter-gatherer societies, mobility was at a premium. Canoes were used for
water travel and snow shoes and sleds were developed for overland travel in winter. The
conditions were favorable for the rapid spread of tribes and their new linguistic family over
immense distances. This expansion, which is called Mesolithic, is indicated archaeologically by
microliths found all along Northern Eurasia and Southward through the Caucasus into the Near
East, where it later developed smoothly into the Neolithic with its domestication of cereals and of
animals suitable for food and fibers.
The Mesolithic culture is aptly named, for it provided a gradual though rapid transition
between the Upper Paleolithic and the agricultural Neolithic. There was, in fact, a steady advance
in man’s ability to control and exploit his environment. This point is brought out by Grahame
Clark (1980).
The more I study the matter, the more 1 am convinced that the spread of the Nostratic
speaking peoples was occasioned by the spread of the Mesolithic culture, for it occupied the right
positions in time and space, and its characteristic features are compatible with the residual
vocabulary of the Nostratic families — it was the last of the pre-agricultural eras in Eurasia.
Was the culture uniiingual? I believe it was, in origin, though by the time the culture had
spread into the more extreme areas — North Africa and Eastern Eurasia and North America — it
had broken up into a catenation of mutually unintelligible, though closely related, languages,
some of which eventually became ancestral to new linguistic families, including those comprising
6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages 1 1
7
the Northern Nostratic sub-phylum we observe today. One reason for assuming a unitary origin is
that certain features of vocabulary and morphology are shared between Eskimo-Aleut and Indo-
European that occur only vestigially in the intervening families. This includes the heteroclitic
declension. It also includes a few items of shared vocabulary such as Eskimo (Yupik) alia ‘other’
and ingne ‘fire’ (with a velar nasal in the first syllable). The paucity of such correspondences is
analogous to the vestigial retention of radioactive atoms after the lapse of several half-lives.
Here, ingne is particularly interesting. It reminds us of Latin ignis ‘fire’. The vowel in
the first syllable is controversial since the corresponding vowels in the Lithuanian and Sanskrit
words are respectively u- and a-, which cannot be reconciled with the Latin form or with each
other by the accepted rules of phonological correspondence. This suggests that the ancestral word
in Nostratic had the velar nasal in the first syllable, preserved in Yupik but perhaps lost sometime
during the prehistory of Indo-European. Bomhard informs me that some Indo-Europeanists (cf.
Emout—Meillet 1979:308) have suggested that the Latin form may come from an earlier *ngnis,
with a syllabic nasal in the first syllable.
I believe that the Mesolithic culture, with its Nostratic language, had its beginning in or
near the Fertile Crescent just south of the Caucasus, with a slightly later northern extension into
Southern Russia in intimate association with woods and fresh water in lakes and rivers. From
these positions, it had ready access to the lower Danube and the Balkans (Indo-European), to the
Caucasus (Kartvelian), south of the Caucasus into Mesopotamia, Palestine, Egypt, and the rest of
North Africa (Sumerian and Afroasiatic), eastward into Central Siberia (Elamo-Dravidian), and
northward and thence eastward along the Circumpolar fringe (Uralic-Yukaghir, Altaic, Chukchi-
Kamchatkin, Gilyak, and Eskimo-Aleut). In the process of its expansion, it undoubtedly effected
a linguistic conversion of many tribes of Dene-Caucasian or other origin; this accounts for the fact
that non-Nostratic languages in Eurasia in historic times have been found mostly as relics in
mountainous regions. Exceptions are Chinese and the now moribund or extinct Ket, which,
together with Hattie and Hurrian, probably represent post-Nostratic reemergences of Dene-
Caucasian speakers from their relict areas.
The Nostratic dispersion probably began at least 15,000 years ago, giving ample time for
a plethora of eccentric linguistic developments unrecorded in history. By historic times — i.e., as
late as the nineteenth century in many instances —the primordial features have been much diluted
and transformed. Only by viewing the entire macrofamily holistically can we gain some idea of
the features of the original Nostratic language; the importance of Indo-European in this is crucial
in that it serves as an intermediate link, linguistically as well as geographically, between
Kartvelian, Sumerian, and Afroasiatic on the one hand, and the Circumpolar group (Uralic-
Yukaghir to Eskimo-Aleut) on the other. Besides, Indo-European seems to be fairly conservative
in its syntactic system, its nominal declension, its pronouns, and its vocabulary in general.
At last we return to the issue I raised at the beginning of this section: Why does Indo-
European resemble Afroasiatic in phonology and vocabulary, but the Circumpolar group in syntax
and morphology? If the foregoing scenario is correct, or nearly so, it suggests that the Nostratic
dispersal began almost as soon as its unity was formed; this is the inevitable result of the
peripatetic activities of hunter-gatherers in an expansive situation. If we assume that the speakers
of pre-Indo-European remained in the neighborhood of the Caucasus to a fairly late period (say
7500 BCE), with Afroasiatic already extending through Palestine into Egypt and eventually into
the rest of North Africa, but with its Semitic branch still situated in Northern Mesopotamia high
on the upper slopes of the Fertile Crescent, we would have an explanation for the similarity of
vocabulary. That this proximity existed to a late period is suggested by shared words for field,
bull, cow, sheep, and goat, animals which were then being domesticated in the Fertile Crescent.
In addition, shared words for star and seven suggest a common veneration for that number and
perhaps a shared ideology. This is speculative, of course, but if it is true it suggests an association
that was social as well as geographical.
118 6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages
Meanwhile, the Circumpolar families were developing in a situation that was
geographically and environmentally separate. Here, the Mesolithic way of life has been
maintained continuously to recent times; any impulses toward agriculture have been late, and
except for the Finno-Ugrians, they all have been received from non-Indo-European sources. The
linguistic developments have been equally idiosyncratic. In all of these families the SOV word
order and associated morphological principles of early Indo-European have been retained except
where subjected to alien influences in more recent times, and they have been maintained with
special purity in Altaic and Elamo-Dravidian, which may well have been of Siberian origin. In
vocabulary, they show little in common with Indo-European or Afroasiatic except at a strictly pre-
agricultural level.
In Uralic-Yukaghir, the linguistic idiosyncrasy is particularly marked. While the syntax
and a considerable part of the morphology are basically conservative, the latter has been extended
to an astonishing degree in several languages. But the most striking peculiarity of this family is
the remarkable simplification that has developed in its consonantal system (reminiscent of
Tocharian in Indo-European), and in the paucity of the Nostratic vocabulary that it has retained. It
suggests a long isolation along the North Siberian fringe in the neighborhood of tribes not yet
converted to Nostratic speech, for these features are less prominent in the other families of this
group.
By the same token, it also suggests that the similarities shared by Uralic with Indo-
European, or Eskimo-Aleut are very likely to have been features of the original Nostratic since
borrowing among these groups is excluded by their mutual isolation until much more recent times.
Although the similarities are few as discernible at this late date, they are sufficiently striking that
they are unlikely to have been due to independent developments.
Finally, the following quote is what the well-known Slavicist Henrik Bimbaum has to say
about the Nostratic Hypothesis in general and about the Nostratic homeland in particular
(Bimbaum 1992:25):
If, in conclusion, I were to indicate my own position with regard to the still highly
controversial issue of Nostratic, I would have to say that I have no difficulty in accepting the
notion of a Nostratic macrofamily of languages comprising at least the six language families
envisioned by Illic-Svityc and Dolgopol’skij. However, my understanding of such a macrofamily
— and similar considerations would presumably apply to other large-scale language groups
elsewhere in the world — would not, and could not, be based exclusively on evidence of genetic
relationship as defined above. Linguistic macrofamilies (such as the one we term Nostratic) must,
I submit, be viewed as the tangible result of both genetic relationships resulting from divergence
and structural adjustments reflecting convergent trends in linguistic evolution. Consequently, and
in line with some of the views propounded by Baudouin de Courtenay, Polivanov, and Trubeckoj,
I would consider it fairly realistic to hypothesize a once actually spoken Nostratic ancestral
language. Presumably, this language was characterized by a degree of inner cohesion comparable
to what, mutatis mutandis, we can assume to have been the case with, say. Common Baltic or,
possibly, Anatolian in their chronological and substantive development from Proto-Indo-
European. And perhaps, if the heartland of Proto-Nostratic, as just qualified, is indeed to be
identified with an area encompassing Transcaucasia, eastern (and southern) Anatolia, as well as
the upper reaches of the Tigris and Euphrates, it would not be too far-fetched to assume secondary
Indo-European protohomes in territories closer to the Black Sea, namely in the Pontic Steppe
region, in northern and western Anatolia, and in parts of the Balkan Peninsula. This would further
provide at least a point of departure for a reasonable explanation for the early settlement of the
Greeks in mainland Greece and the archipelagos of the Aegean; for the formation of a secondary
— if not tertiary — Indo-European core area focused in the Baltic region; and possibly even for
6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages 1 1
9
the yet largely opaque earliest moves of Celtic tribes throughout Western, Central, and
Southeastern Europe.
In my opinion, Kems has hit the nail on the head (Bomhard—Kems 1994:155): “I
believe that the Mesolithic culture, with its Nostratic language, had its beginning in or near the
Fertile Crescent just south of the Caucasus”. Let us now reexamine the evidence from the
Nostratic daughter languages and see how it leads to this conclusion.
The Indo-European homeland was most likely to the north of and between the Black and
Caspian Seas. However, Nichols has convincingly argued that Pre-Indo-European originated in
Central Asia and later spread westward to the North Pontic/Steppe zone that was the
geographical location where Proto-Indo-European proper developed, where it began to split up
into different dialect groups, and from which its descendants spread into Europe, the Iranian
plateau, and northern India. Likewise, again as argued by Nichols, Pre-Uralic may be presumed
to have originated in Central Asia and to have spread westward, following a more northerly route
than Pre-Indo-European. Thus, it is likely that the Eurasiatic parent language was located in
Central Asia and that it is to be dated roughly at about 9,000 BCE. This would mean that the
eastern Eurasiatic languages (Altaic, Chukchi-Kamchatkan, Gilyak, and Eskimo-Aleut) must
have spread eastward from Central Asia (more specifically, the area traditionally called “Western
Turkestan”) to their prehistoric homelands. Nichols has also speculated that Pre-Kartvelian may
have originally been located in Central Asia, from which it spread westward along a southern
route below the Caspian Sea to the Caucasus Mountains. The Elamo-Dravidian homeland may
be placed roughly in western and central modem-day Iran and dated at about 8,000 BCE.
Finally, the homeland of Afroasiatic may be placed in the Middle East in the Levant and dated at
about 10,000 BCE. Working backwards geographically and chronologically, we arrive at the
only possible homeland for Proto-Nostratic, namely, “the Fertile Crescent just south of the
Caucasus”.
Thus, the following scenario emerges: The unified Nostratic parent language may be
dated to between 15,000 to 12,000 BCE, that is, at the end of the last Ice Age — it was located in
the Fertile Crescent just south of the Caucasus (see Map 4). Beginning around 12,000 BCE,
Nostratic began to expand, and, by 10,000 BCE, several distinct dialect groups had appeared.
The first to split off was Afroasiatic. One dialect group spread from the Fertile Crescent to the
northeast, eventually reaching Central Asia sometime before 9,000 BCE — this was Eurasiatic.
Another dialect group spread eastward into western and central Iran, where it developed into
Elamo-Dravidian at about 8,000 BCE. If Nichols is correct in seeing Pre-Kartvelian as having
migrated from Central Asia westward below the Caspian Sea to the Caucasus, this would seem to
imply that Pre-Kartvelian had first migrated northeastward from the Fertile Crescent along with
or as part of Pre-Eurasiatic, that it stopped somewhere along the way, and that it then returned to
the Middle East. The early dispersal of the Nostratic languages is shown in Map 5.
Analysis of the linguistic evidence has enabled us to determine the most likely homeland
of the Nostratic parent language, to establish a time-frame during which Proto-Nostratic might
have been spoken, to date the disintegration of Nostratic, and to trace the early dispersal of the
daughter languages. To round out the picture, let us now correlate the linguistic data with
archeological data. During the last Ice Age (the so-called “Wiiim glaciation”), which reached its
1 20 6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages
zenith about 18,000 to 20,000 years ago, the whole of northern Eurasia was covered by huge
sheets of ice, while treeless steppe tundra stretched all the way from the westernmost fringes of
Europe eastward to well beyond the Ural Mountains. It was not until about 1 5,000 years ago that
the ice sheets began to retreat in earnest. When the ice sheets began melting, sea levels rose
dramatically, and major climatic changes took place — temperatures rose, rainfall became more
abundant, all sorts of animals (gazelles, deer, cattle, wild sheep, wild goats, wild asses, wolves,
jackals, and many smaller species) became plentiful, and vegetation flourished. Areas that had
formerly been inhospitable to human habitation now became inviting. Human population
increased and spread outward in all directions, exploiting the opportunities created by the
receding ice sheets. New technologies came into being — toward the end of the last Ice Age,
hunter-gatherers had inhabited the Middle East, living either in caves or temporary campsites.
As the Ice Age began coming to an end, more permanent settlements started to appear, and there
was a gradual transition from an economy based on hunting and gathering to one based on
cultivation and stock breeding. This was the setting in which Nostratic arose. Nostratic was
indeed at the right place and at the right time. The disintegration of the Nostratic parent language
coincided with the dramatic changes in environment described above, and Nostratic-speaking
people took full advantage of the new opportunities.
Roaf (1990:18) has an interesting map showing the spread of agriculture in the ancient
Middle East and beyond (see Map 6; see also Cavalli-Sforza et al. 1994:257 and Guilaine [ed.]
1989:1 18). It is striking how closely this map matches the early dispersal of Nostratic languages
as shown in our Map 4, though the time-frames are different — the language spread seems to
have preceded the spread of agriculture by about three millennia, at least in Central Asia. It is
tempting to speculate that the spread of agriculture may have been facilitated by the cultural
contacts that seem to have been maintained among the speakers of the early Nostratic daughter
languages (for more discussion, see the following section on Eurasiatic). There is, however, one
very important exception, namely, the spread of agriculture into and throughout Europe, which
could not have been in any way connected with the early dispersal of the Nostratic daughter
languages, since Nostratic languages do not appear in Europe until a much later date. In what
follows, I would like to offer a proposal to account for this.
Nostratic-speaking people were not the only population group in the Middle East at the
time that the dramatic changes described above were taking place. To the north, in Anatolia and
the Caucasus, were very early Caucasian-speaking people (as evidenced by the later Hattie,
Hurrian-Urartean, and, perhaps, Gutian [so Diakonoff 1990:63] in Anatolia), and these people
were also active participants in the “Neolithic Revolution” and the consequent development and
spread of agriculture and stock breeding. I suggest that these were the people responsible for the
spread of agriculture into Europe, not early Nostratic-speaking people and definitely not Indo-
Europeans as suggested by Renfrew. I further suggest that it was the migration of these ancient
Caucasian-speaking agriculturalists into the Balkans that gave rise to the civilization of “Old
Europe” (on Old Europe, see Paliga 1989). Thus, we can plot two distinct migrations into
Europe: the earliest, which crossed from Anatolia into the Balkans and then spread northward
into Europe, began about 10,000 years ago. I am proposing that this migration was by
Caucasian-speaking agriculturalists. The second, which came from the Russian steppes and
spread westward into Europe, began about 6,000 years ago. This migration was by Indo-
6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages 1 2
1
European-speaking horsemen. As a result of this migration, Indo-European languages gradually
replaced all of the earlier languages of Europe except for Basque.
6.10. Eurasiatic
In the preceding section, I stated that the Nostratic dialect group which developed into
Proto-Eurasiatic spread from the Fertile Crescent to the northeast, eventually reaching Central
Asia sometime before 9,000 BCE. At the time of their arrival in Central Asia, the climate of the
area was too dry to support primitive agriculture — it was not until the eighth millennium BCE
that climatic conditions significantly improved. Therefore, we would expect to find no traces of
agriculture in this region before this date, and indeed there are none. Nonetheless, there is
evidence for early trade and cross-cultural contacts between northeastern Iran, Central Asia, and
the Fertile Crescent dating as far back as Mesolithic times (cf. V. Sarianidi 1992:112—113).
Moreover, in northeastern Iran, on the southeastern shores of the Caspian Sea, there is evidence
that wild goats and sheep were hunted as early as the twelfth and eleventh millennia BCE, and
these were among the first animals to be domesticated. The earliest known Neolithic remains in
northeastern Iran go back to about the seventh millennium BCE. By the sixth millennium BCE,
Neolithic culture had spread northward into Central Asia — the Neolithic settlement patterns and
technology (pottery, agriculture, stock breeding, etc.) appearing in this area were clearly
imported from the Middle East (cf. Cavalli-Sforza et al. 1994:198). On the basis of this
information, we may surmise that the earliest Nostratic-speaking people to appear in Central Asia
were Mesolithic hunter-gathers, not agriculturalists, though agriculture and stock breeding slowly
followed. Even after the introduction of agriculture, there is evidence of different cultural
traditions co-existing in the region, as noted by Sarianidi (1992:126):
The culture of Neolithic agricultures and of cattle-breeders of Iran, Afghanistan and Soviet
Central Asia shows that a transition to the forms of economy, usually termed the ‘Neolithic
Revolution’, took place here almost simultaneously with similar developments in western Asia. A
new way of life is clearly represented here by comfortable houses with accurate trimming of
interiors, bright ceramics and wide use of ornaments. This qualitative leap in social development
prepared the necessary base for the creation of ancient civilizations. At the same time inequalities
in the course of historical development become clear: the ancient tribes of Iran and southern
Turkmenistan passed to the new forms of economy, while in other areas of Soviet Central Asia
and northern Afghanistan the transition was delayed. Tribes of hunters, fishers and food-
gatherers, maintaining many archaic features in their culture, were contemporary with sedentary
communities in oases. The lines of cultural links that emerged during the Palaeolithic epoch not
only keep their importance but also become stronger — a fact which played an important role in
the diffusion of cultivating cereals and of cattle-breeding.
122 6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages
The shaded area shows the homeland of Indo-European-speaking people at about
5,000 —4,500 BCE (cf. Villar 1991:15).
6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages 123
Map 2: The Dispersal of the Indo-European Languages
This map shows the approximate area to which Indo-European languages had spread
by the first century BCE (cf. Villar 1991:17).
124 6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages
Map 3: The Distribution of Afroasiatic Languages at about 500 BCE
This map shows the approximate distribution of the Afroasiatic languages at about
500 BCE — it is adapted from the map facing page 1 in Cohen (ed.) 1988.
6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages 125
This map shows the approximate location of the Nostratic homeland at about 15,000 BCE.
1 26 6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages
This map shows the approximate areas to which Nostratic languages had spread by
about 8,000 BCE.
6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages 127
128 6. The Nostratic Homeland and the Dispersal ofthe Nostratic Languages
Map 6c: The Spread of Agriculture to 6,000 BCE
7
Problem Areas and Future Prospects
7.1. The Problem of Altaic
As noted by Merritt Ruhlen (1987:128):
The study of the Altaic family has had a long and stormy history, and even today there is
considerable disagreement among specialists over exactly which languages belong to the family.
The similarities between what has come to be known as the “Altaic” languages were
recognized over two and a half centuries ago by the Swedish military officer Johann von
Strahlenberg, who published a work on the subject in 1730. The famous Danish scholar, and one
of the founders of Indo-European comparative grammar, Rasmus Rask also conducted research
into these languages as well as Eskimo, several Uralic languages, and what have sometimes been
called the “Paleosiberian” languages. In the middle of the last century, important work was done
by the Finnish linguist Matthew Alexander Castren. It was another Finnish scholar, Gustav John
Ramstedt (cf. Poppe [1965:83—85] for a sketch of Ramstedt’s life), who really put Altaic
comparative linguistics on a firm footing. Ramstedt published many important studies,
culminating in the publication (1952—1957) of his two-volume magnum opus (in English
translation) Introduction to Altaic Linguistics. A few of the many scholars who have made
significant contributions to Altaic linguistics are: Pentti Aalto, Johannes Benzing, Erich
Haenisch, Shiro Hattori, Wladyslaw Kotwicz, Samuel E. Martin, Karl H. Menges, Roy Andrew
Miller, Antoine Mostaert, Gyula (Julius) Nemeth, Jerry Norman, Martti Rasanen, Andras Rona-
Tas, Andrew Rudnev, Aurelien Sauvageot, Boris A. Serebrennikov, Denis Sinor, John C. Street,
Vilhelm Thomsen, Vera Ivanovna Tsintsius (Cincius), Boris Yakovlevich Vladimirtsov, and
others too numerous to count, including several Russian, Korean, and Japanese scholars. One of
the most prominent Altaic scholars of this century is the Russian-born Nicholas Poppe, who has
published numerous books and articles, including (in English translation) Khalkha-Mongolian
Grammar (1951), Introduction to Mongolian Comparative Studies (1955; reprinted 1987), (in
English translation) Comparative Grammar of the Altaic Languages (1960; only Part I
appeared). Introduction to Altaic Linguistics (1965), and Grammar of Written Mongolian (third
printing 1974). The most noteworthy recent work (1991) is the monograph by the highly
respected Russian linguist Sergej A. Starostin entitled (in English translation) The Altaic
Problem and the Origin of the Japanese Language. Strong opposition to the Altaic Hypothesis
has been expressed by several reputable scholars, perhaps the most vocal being Gerhard Doerfer
and Gerard Clauson. At the Workshop on Linguistic Change and Reconstruction Methodology
130 7. Problem Areas and Future Prospects
held at Stanford University from 28 July through 1 August 1987, the consensus of the Altaic
panel was that “we found Proto-Altaic, at best, a premature hypothesis and a pragmatically poor
foundation on which to build a sustained research program” (cf. Baldi [ed.] 1990:479; the
quotation is from the “Summary Report of the Altaic Panel” prepared by J. Marshall Unger).
Finally, we may note in passing that Illic-Svityc also made a couple of important contributions to
Altaic linguistics.
Traditionally, Altaic has included the core groups (Chuvash-)Turkic, Mongolian, and
(Manchu-)Tungus, to which some have tried to add Korean, Japanese-Ryukyuan, and Ainu.
Looking at just the core group, one is hard-pressed to find features common to all three. There
are, to be sure, common features between (Chuvash-)Turkic and Mongolian on the one hand and
between Mongolian and (Manchu-)Tungus on the other, but there appear to be relatively few
features common to (Chuvash-)Turkic and (Manchu-)Tungus alone. All three are, in fact, similar
in structure, but this has been considered by some to be strictly a typological characteristic. The
common features found between the members of the core group have been explained as due to
diffusion, and, for a good portion of the common lexical material, this seems to be a valid
explanation. There are, however, features common (pronouns, to cite a single example) to the
members of the core group as a whole that cannot be explained as due to diffusion, and which do
indeed point to some sort of genetic relationship. The problem is in trying to define the nature of
that relationship. Two explanations are possible: (1) The shared features are due to common
descent from Proto-Nostratic and do not imply a closer relationship between the three. In this
scenario, (Chuvash-)Turkic, Mongolian, and (Manchu-)Tungus turn out to be three independent
branches of Nostratic. (2) The shared features are due to descent from a common Altaic parent
language intermediate between Proto-Nostratic and each of the core group members. The
problem with the first explanation is that it merely shifts the question back to the Nostratic level
without resolving a thing, whereas the second explanation keeps the focus exactly where it
belongs, namely, on the core group. The second alternative thus remains a viable hypothesis. I
would unhesitatingly include the following groups within the Altaic language family: (Chuvash-
)Turkic, Mongolian, (Manchu-)Tungus, and Korean, while Japanese-Ryukyuan appears to be
made up of an Altaic element that has been superimposed on an Austronesian substratum. The
shared features between (Chuvash-)Turkic, Mongolian, and (Manchu-)Tungus may be looked
upon as due to common descent from an Altaic parent language. Language change over time has
gradually led to increasing differentiation between each of the three core group members, while
diffusion, especially lexical diffusion, has tended to complicate the picture and has made it
difficult to differentiate between that which is borrowed and that which is inherited.
The whole question of Altaic unity has recently been reexamined by Roy Andrew Miller
(1991). Miller addresses and convincingly demolishes objections that have been raised by those
opposed to setting up an Altaic language family, and he concludes his paper by listing a number
of important tasks that must be undertaken by Altaicists to redirect “Altaic historical-linguistic
studies back into the mainstream of comparative linguistics”. The new book by Sergej Starostin
(1991) attempts to clarify many of the issues surrounding the problems associated with setting up
an Altaic language family, including the relationship of Korean and Japanese to the other Altaic
language groups (but see the reviews by Comrie [1993] and Krippes [1994]).
7. Problem Areas and Future Prospects 1 3
1
7.2. The Origin of Etruscan
In spite of several heroic efforts, Etruscan has never been convincingly shown to be
related to any known language or language family. This applies as well to recent attempts by
Russian scholars to establish a connection between Etruscan and Northeast Caucasian (cf. Orel
—
Starostin 1990). And yet, there are some important clues as to the origin of Etruscan, and these
need to be looked at in a new perspective, but, first, a few introductory comments ought to be
made.
Etruscan was spoken in central Italy, with the largest concentration of speakers being in
the region now known as Tuscany. It is now generally accepted that Etruscan was an indigenous
language of Italy and not a recent importation. The first written documents date from the 7th
century BCE, while the latest date from the first century CE, which is probably not far beyond
the time that Etruscan became extinct. Etruscan was usually written from right to left in an
alphabet based mostly on Western Greek models. Though approximately 13,000 Etruscan
inscriptions have been found, the overwhelming majority of them are extremely brief. The
phonological system was simple: There were only four vowels, namely, a, e, i, u, and the
consonant system distinguished a relatively small number of phonemes and lacked a voicing
contrast in stops. Syntactically, Etruscan word order was SOV.
Looking closely at Etruscan, it is clear that it contains unmistakable Nostratic elements,
including the personal pronouns mi “I”, and mini “me”, the demonstrative pronouns eca, ca
“this” and ita, ta “this”, and several lexical items such as, for example, maO “honey, honeyed
wine” (cf. Proto-Indo-European *med[h]u “honey, mead”; Proto-Finno-Ugrian *mete “honey”;
Proto-Dravidian *mattu “honey, nectar, toddy” [Bomhard—Kems 1994:665—666, no. 543]),
apa “father” (cf. Indo-European: Gothic aba “man, husband”; Proto-Affoasiatic *?ab- “father,
forefather, ancestor”; Proto-Dravidian *appa- “father”; Proto-Altaic *aba “father”; Sumerian a-
ba, ab, ab-ba “father” [Bomhard—Kems 1994:572—573, no. 440]), hanOin “in front of’ (cf.
Indo-European: Hittite hand “facing, frontally, opposite, against”, hanza “in front”; Sanskrit
anti “in front of, before, near”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian hnt “face, front part; in front of’
[Bomhard—Kems 1995:554, no. 414]), pi (also pul) “at, in, through” (cf. Indo-European:
Gothic bi “about, over; concerning, according to”, Old English bl, bi, be “[of place] near, in, on,
upon, with, along, at, to; [of time] in, about, by, before, while during; for, because of, in
consideration of, by, by means of, through, in conformity with”, Sanskrit [with prefix] a-bhi “to,
towards”; Afroasiatic: Proto-Semitic *bal*bi “in, with, within, among”; Sumerian bi “with,
together with, in addition to” [Bomhard—Kems 1994:218—219, no. 23]), tev- “to show, to set”
(cf. Proto-Kartvelian *dew-/*dw- “to lay, to put, to place, to set”; Sumerian du “to do, to make;
to build; to set up, to establish” [Bomhard—Kems 1994:276, no. 90]). There is also a pronoun
Oi, whose meaning is unknown, but which resembles the Nostratic 2nd singular personal
pronoun. That Oi may, in fact, have been the 2nd singular personal pronoun finds support in the
verbal 2nd person imperative endings -ti, -6, -Oi. But, there is more. The declensional system is
blatantly reminiscent of Indo-European, and verb morphology, though poorly known, also
exhibits Indo-European characteristics. There are five noun stem types (cf. Georgiev
132 7. Problem Areas and Future Prospects
1 98 1 :232—233): (A) stems ending in -a, with genitive singular in -as or -as; (B) stems ending
in -i, with genitive singular in -is, -ias, or (rarely) -aias; (C) stems ending in -ai, with genitive
singular in -ias or -aias; (D) stems ending in -u, with genitive singular in -us; and (E) consonant
stems, with genitive singular in -as or (later) -s. These correspond to similar stem types in Indo-
European. Moreover, the genitive singular in -s is typically Indo-European. Etruscan also had
an archaic genitive in -n (-an, -uri), which corresponds to the Indo-European genitive plural in *-
om (also with long vowel: *-om < *-o-om). In demonstrative stems, the accusative ends in -n,
and this also has a correspondence with the Indo-European accusative singular ending *-om. The
locative in -ti, -8(i) has parallels in Anatolian (Hittite ablative singular -az, -aza [z = /ts/],
instrumental singular -it; Luwian ablative-instrumental singular -ati; Palaic ablative-instrumental
singular -at; Lycian ablative-instrumental singular -edi, -adi) and in other Nostratic languages in
the Uralic ablative ending and the Elamo-Dravidian oblique/locative ending (see Chapter 5, §5.
Noun Morphology). There are also Indo-European elements in the vocabulary, a few examples
being: Etruscan -c “and” (cf. Sanskrit -ca “and”, Latin -que “and”), semcp “seven” (cf. Latin
septem “seven”, Sanskrit sapta “seven”), tin “day, Jupiter” (cf. Sanskrit dina-m “day”, Old
Church Slavic dbnb “day”), and tiu, tiv-, tiur “moon, month” (same stem as in Sanskrit divasa-h
“heaven, day”, divya-h “divine, heavenly, celestial”, etc.), dam- “to build, to found” and tmia
“place, sacred building” (same stem as in Latin domus “house, home; dwelling abode”, Sanskrit
dama-h “house, home”, Greek bspco “to build, to construct”), an (ana, ane, anc, ananc) “he, she”
(cf. Sanskrit demonstrative stem ana- “this”, Hittite demonstrative amis “that, yonder”,
Lithuanian demonstrative anas “that one [over yonder]”), car-, cer- “to make, to build” (cf.
Sanskrit karati “to do, to make, to perform, to accomplish, to cause, to effect, to prepare, to
undertake, to work at, to build” [Pokomy 1959:641 —642 *k?er- “to make, to form”]), neri
“water” (cf. Sanskrit narah “water”, Narmada the name of a river). These give no indication of
being borrowings. The following may be a borrowing: nefts, nefs, nefis “grandson” (< Latin
nepos “grandson”).
These and other similarities are discussed in detail in recent articles by Adrados
(1989a:363—383) and Woudhuizen (1991:122—150). Adrados draws the conclusion that
Etruscan is an archaic Indo-European language and that it is particularly close to the languages of
the Anatolian branch. Woudhuizen reaches a similar conclusion. The conclusions reached by
Adrados and Woudhuizen are sober and persuasive, and, therefore, I am strongly inclined to
accept their views. The following hypothesis may be proposed: Etruscan was one of the first
branches to separate from the main Indo-European speech community. Coming from Central
Europe, pre-Etruscan Indo-Europeans migrated westward and eventually settled in Central Italy.
These intruders may be equated with the Rinaldone culture, which dates from around 2,700 BCE
and which contains unmistakable Indo-European cultural elements. We may assume that they
imposed their speech and culture upon non-Indo-European people. It is this non-Indo-European
substratum that has left a trace in the Etruscan lexicon, and which has made it difficult to
ascertain the fundamentally Indo-European character of Etruscan. The similarities that several
scholars have seen between Etruscan and the Anatolian languages are real and can be accounted
for by assuming that both became separated from the main speech community at about the same
7. Problem Areas and Future Prospects 1 33
time and that, therefore, they represent a more archaic stage of development than that found in
later stage languages such as Greek, Italic, Indo-Iranian, Baltic, Slavic, Germanic, Albanian, and
Armenian, which began to differentiate from each other considerably later and which,
consequently, shared many common developments as a group. References: Bonfante 1990;
Bonfante—Bonfante 1983; Georgiev 1979 and 1981:229—254 (these works must be used with
caution); Pfiffig 1969.
Future research must be directed toward testing the validity of the conclusions reached in
this section, especially in light of the growing body of literature on Nostratic.
7.3. The Placing of Sumerian
Sumerian shares a number of interesting lexical parallels with other Nostratic languages
(these are listed in several papers by Boisson and in Bomhard—Kerns 1994:195—714),
including some core vocabulary items such as pronominal stems, though there are important
differences here as well. Thus, Sumerian may be an ancient Nostratic language. In a number of
privately-circulated papers, Claude Boisson has explored lexical parallels between Sumerian and
Dravidian, while Anumugam Sathasivam (1965), in an unpublished manuscript, has tried to
show that Sumerian is related to Dravidian. Though I have very tentatively accepted a modified
version of Sathasivam’s (and Boisson’s) theories, placing Sumerian as a sister to Proto-Elamo-
Dravidian, I am not entirely satisfied with this arrangement. True enough, Sumerian has an
agglutinating morphological structure, as do Elamite and Dravidian, and the nominal case
endings, for example, are, in reality, bound postpositions in both Sumerian and Elamo-Dravidian.
However, Sumerian is sufficiently different from both Elamite and Dravidian to make me think
that it may be an independent branch of Nostratic, perhaps one of the earliest to separate from the
main speech community.
Before beginning, we should give a brief sketch of Sumerian grammatical structure,
noting first and foremost that, even after more than a century of intensive study, there is still not
widespread agreement among experts in the field on many fundamental questions of Sumerian
grammar. Nevertheless, the overall structure is clear. Three word classes were distinguished:
(A) nouns, (B) verbs, and (C) adjectives. Even though grammatical gender in the strictest sense
did not exist, nouns fell into two classes, namely, animate and inanimate, which were only
distinguished in the 3rd person actor verbal and possessive pronoun affixes and in the relative
pronoun. Ten cases (genitive, absolutive, ergative, dative, locative, comitative, terminative,
ablative-instrumental, and equative [in nouns] plus subject case [in pronouns only]) and two
numbers (singular and plural) were distinguished. The plural was indicated by means of the
suffix -ene, which was used only with animate nouns, or by reduplication. In later texts, the
plural could also be indicated by the form hi-a, which was used with inanimate nouns and which
was originally an independent word meaning “mixed, various, unspecified”, or by -me-es, which
was properly the enclitic copula with plural suffix. Sumerian differentiated between ergative and
absolutive in nouns. In pronouns, however, the patterning was that of a nominative-accusative
system (so Thomsen 1984:51, §42; Diakonoff, however, disputes this [personal
communication]). Sumerian verbs were formed by adding various prefixes and/or affixes
1 34 7. Problem Areas and Future Prospects
directly to the verbal root, which was itself invariable. Verbal constructions fell into one of two
categories, namely, finite forms or non-finite forms. Finite verbal stems distinguished three
conjugational types: (A) the intransitive conjugation, (B) the transitive hamtu conjugation, and
(C) the transitive maru conjugation. Intransitive forms were noted by means of pronominal
suffixes, while transitive forms were noted by means of either prefixes, suffixes, or both.
Syntactically, the basic word order was SOV.
To illustrate the problems involved in trying to determine the placement of Sumerian, let
us begin by looking at the differences between the case endings reconstructed for Proto-Elamo-
Dravidian by McAlpin (1981:1 1
1) with those found in Sumerian (cf. Thomsen 1984:88—89):
A. Proto-Elamo-Dravidian:
Nominative: *-0
Accusative: *-(V)n
Adessive/ *-okko
Purposive (Dative): (?)
Genitives:
1. Possessive: *-a
2. Adnominal: *-in
3. Oblique/ *-to
Locative
B. Sumerian:
Case Animate Inanimate Prefix Chain
Genitive: -ak -ak
Absolutive: -i0 -0
Ergative: -e -e
Dative: -ra -na-, etc.
Locative: -a -ni-
Comitative: -da -da -da-
Terminative: -se -se -si-
Ablative-Instrumental
:
-ta -ta- and -ra-
Equative: -m? -gin?
The prefix chain cases require special explanation (I will quote from Thomsen 1984:215 and 219
[for the dative, §43 1 below]):
§ 423. Some cases, the so-called dimensional cases, can be incorporated in the prefix chain of
finite verbal forms. These cases are: dative, comitative, terminative, ablative, and locative. In
principle the case elements have the same shape as the corresponding postpositions and only
minor changes in writing and pronunciation occur.
7. Problem Areas and Future Prospects 135
The rank of the case elements in the prefix chain is between the conjugation prefixes and
the pronominal element serving as subject/object mark...
§ 424. Terminology
The case elements of the prefix chain are most often called ‘infixes’ or ‘dimensional infixes’ by
the sumerologists. However, since they do not act as infixes in the stem but merely as members of
the chain of grammatical elements preceding a verbal root, ‘case elements’ or ‘case prefixes’ are
used here as the most appropriate terms.
§ 431. The dative is the only case prefix which has different prefixes for every person...
l.sg. ma- < /mu-a-/ 1 Pi -me-
2.sg. -ra- 2.pl. ?
3.sg.an. -na- < /-n-a-/ 3-pl- -ne-
There are parallels, to be sure, but as many with other Nostratic languages as with Elamo-
Dravidian. The Sumerian ablative-instrumental case ending (inanimate) -ta, (prefix chain) -ta-
agrees with the Proto-Uralic ablative ending *-ta as well as with the Proto-Elamo-Dravidian
oblique/locative ending *-to. The Sumerian locative case ending (prefix chain) -ni- is similar to
the Proto-Uralic locative case ending *-na, though the vowels are problematic, and to the Proto-
Dravidian locative case ending *-in(/*-il ?). The Sumerian genitive case ending -ak is similar in
form to the Proto-Dravidian dative case ending *-(k)ku and the Proto-Elamo-Dravidian
adessive/locative (dative) *-okko, but the difference in function is a problem. Moreover, the -na-
and -ni- prefix chain case endings may be somehow related to the oblique-n formations described
by John C. Kerns (cf. Bomhard—Kems 1994:173—179, §3. 5. 3.1).
An extremely interesting parallel involves the Sumerian comitative element da (also -de).
As noted by Thomsen (1984:99): “The basic meaning of the comitative is ‘with’, ‘together
with’, expressing accompaniment as well as mutual action.” A particle *da/*do, with the basic
meaning “along with, together with, in addition to”, shows up all over Nostratic (cf. Bomhard
—
Kems 1994:275—276, no. 89). It appears in Kartvelian as a conjunction: Georgian da “and”,
Mingrelian do “and”, Zan do “and” < Proto-Kartvelian *da “and”, and probably as the adverbial
case ending -adld found, for example, in Old Georgian (in Modem Georgian, the ending is
-ad[aj). In Affoasiatic, it is found in Chadic: Hausa da “with; and; by, by means of; regarding,
with respect to, in relation to; at, in, during; than”; Kulere tu; Bade do; Tera ndo; Gidar di;
Mokulu ti; Kanakuru do < Proto-Chadic *do “with, and”. Elamite has da “also, too, as well,
likewise; so, therefore, consequently, accordingly, hence; thereby, thereupon”. Particularly
interesting is Altaic, where this particle functions as a locative suffix on the one hand, *-da, and
as an independent particle on the other, *da “together with, and, also”: Common Mongolian
dative-locative suffix *-da > Mongolian -da; Dagur -da; Khalkha -efo; Buriat -da; Kalmyk -do
(cf. Poppe 1955:195—199). ). In Manchu, the dative-locative particle is -de. In Turkic, it also
appears as a locative suffix: Common Turkic *-dal*-da (cf. Menges 1968:110). It may be
preserved in Indo-European in the suffixed particle appearing, for example, in Sanskrit as -ha
and -dhi: sa-ha “with” (Vedic sa-dha), i-ha “here” (Prakrit i-dha), ku-ha “where?”, d-dhi
136 7. Problem Areas and Future Prospects
“above, over, from, in”; in Avestan in ida “here”, kuda “where?”; and in Greek in the locative
particle -0i in, for example, oiko-0i “at home”, tto-Gi “where?”.
Now let us look briefly at verb morphology. McAlpin (1981:122—123) notes that the
Proto-Elamo-Dravidian verbal conjugation “does not survive in Dravidian as a paradigm”.
Therefore, we will give the verbal endings as they appear in Middle Elamite, using, once again,
the verb hutta- “to make” for illustration (cf. Reiner 1969:76; Grillot-Susini 1987:33):
Person Singular Plural
1 hutta-h hutta-hu (<h + h)
2 hutta-t hutta-ht (< h + t)
3 hutta-s hutta-hs ( <h + s)
McAlpin derives the Elamite 1st sg. ending -h from Proto-Elamo-Dravidian *-H, the 2nd sg.
ending -t from *-ti, and the 3rd sg. ending -s from *-(V)s. The Proto-Elamo-Dravidian 2nd sg.
ending *-ti survives in South Dravidian negative imperatives.
The Sumerian finite verb employs various pronominal elements. These are described by
Thomsen (1984:147, §287) as follows:
The pronominal elements of the finite verbal form refer to the persons involved in the verbal
action. There are two main series with different marks: the prefixes and the suffixes. A verbal
form can have at most one prefix immediately before the verbal root and one suffix after the
verbal root (or, if present, after /ed/), both referring to subject and/or object. The prefixes are
identical with the pronominal elements which under some conditions occur together with case
prefixes...
Thomsen (1984:148—149, §290) lists the following pronominal prefixes:
l.sg. -?- l.pl. -me-
2.sg. -e- 2.pl. -e ene-
3.sg. animate -n- 3-pl- -ene-
inanimate -b-
The plural pronominal prefixes “are used as dative elements only..., and it is thus more probable
that they are case elements rather than pronominal elements” (cf. Thomsen 1984:148).
There are also two series of pronominal suffixes (cf. Thomsen 1984:152), the first of
which (column A below) marks both the subject of intransitive verbs and the direct object of
transitive verbs, the second of which (column B below) “is used in two-part, maru forms together
with the prefix /-n-/ to denote the 3.pi. ergative subject”. In actual fact, only the 3rd persons
singular and plural are different (cf. Thomsen 1984:152).
7. Problem Areas and Future Prospects 137
A B
sg. pi. sg- pi.
-en -enden -en -enden
-en -enzen -en -enzen
H
0
-es -e -ene
There is simply nothing here that resembles what is found in Elamo-Dravidian nor, for that
matter, in other Nostratic languages. For a discussion of the etymology of the pronominal stems,
see below.
The Sumerian personal pronoun stems are as follows (the Emesal forms are shown in
parentheses; Igl = /g/)(cf. Thomsen 1984:68; Boisson 1992:437):
l.sg. l.sg. 3.sg. 3-pl-
Subject: ga.e za.e e.ne e.ne.ne
(me.e) (ze)
ga-a-ra za-a-ra e.ne-ra e.ne.ne-ra
Dative: ga-a-ar za-a-ar
(ma-a-ra)
Terminative: ga(-a/e)-se za(-a/e)-se e.ne-se e.ne.ne-se
Comitative: ga(-a/e)-da za(-a/e)-da e. ne-da e. ne. ne-da
Equative gd(-a/e)-gin7 za(-a/e)-gin7 e.ne-gin7 e.ne.ne-gin7
The possessive suffixes are (cf. Thomsen 1984:71):
Singular Plural
1 -guw “my”
2 -zu “your”
3 an. -a.ni “his, her”
inan. -bi “its”
-me “our”
-zu.ne.ne, -zu.e.ne.ne,
-zu.ne “your”
-a.ne.ne “their”
-bi also “their”, presumably
collective
Right away, we notice that the Emesal 1st singular forms (subject) me.e, (dative) ma-a-ra are
related to the common Nostratic 1st person personal pronoun stem * mil*me “I, me” (cf.
Bomhard—Kerns 1984:661 —662, no. 540; Illic-Svityc 1971— .11:63—66, no. 299 *mi), while
the 1st plural possessive suffix -me is related to the common Nostratic inclusive 1st plural
138 7. Problem Areas and Future Prospects
personal pronoun stem *ma-/*mo- “we, us” (cf. Bomhard—Kerns 1984:661 —662, no. 540; Illic-
Svityc 1971 — .11:52—56, no. 289 *ma). The 2nd person personal pronoun ze-, za-, -zu may
also be derived from the Proto-Nostratic 2nd person personal pronoun stem *t[h]i-/*t[h]e- “you”
(cf. Bomhard—Kerns 1984:285—287, no. 102; Dolgopolsky 1984:87—89 *t[uj), assuming
affricatization of the dental before front vowel (similar to what has happened in Mongolian):
*t[h
]i-/*t[h]e- > *tri-/*tye- > (*ts
i-/)*ts
e- > ze- /tse-/, etc. (Sumerian <z> = Its/ [cf. Boisson
1989:221 —226 and 1992:436]). Finally, the 3rd person forms e.ne and a.ne are related to the
demonstrative pronoun ne.en, ne(-e), which is itself related to the Proto-Nostratic demonstrative
stem *na-/*no-, *ni-/*ne-, *nu-/*no- (cf. Bomhard—Kems 1984:688—689, no. 570). To
account for the beginning vowels in e.ne and a.ne, Shevoroshkin (cited in Boisson 1992:443) has
suggested that these appear “to be a compound of the demonstrative / personal pronoun of the
3rd person **?i / **?a [...] plus the demonstrative base **n(a)'\ I agree with Shevoroshkin’
s
suggestion. Though widespread in the Nostratic daughter languages, these stems are lacking in
Dravidian (though see Dolgopolsky 1984 for a slightly different interpretation of some of the
Dravidian material). Zvelebil (1977:40) reconstmcts the following personal pronoun stems for
Proto-Dravidian:
Singular Plural
1 *yan : *yan- “I”
2 *nln: *nin- “you”
3 *tan : *tan- “he, she, if
(incl.) *yam : *yam- “we”
(excl.) *nam : *nam- “we’
*riim : *nim- “you”
*tam : *tam- “they”
McAlpin (1981:112) begins his discussion of pronouns by making some very important
observations regarding the relationship of the Elamite and Dravidian pronouns:
530.0 The personal pronouns have long been an enigma in the relationship of Elamite to
Dravidian. On the one hand, the second person pronouns provided the morphological detail first
recognized as being cognate... On the other hand, one of them, the first person plural is still
somewhat ambiguous as to its form in PED. For the others, it has been a long quest, fitting
together the morphological pieces. The major breakthrough came with the realization that the
Proto-Dravidian pronouns were not ultimately archaic, but rather a major innovation in late Pre-
Dravidian. The nature of the innovation was the replacement of the nominative by oblique stems.
Thus, Proto-Dravidian pronouns have little to say directly about the morphology of nominative
bases in PED. However, the same forms, in a different usage, were preserved as personal
possessive prefixes in kinship terminology. This was maintained as a system for a few kin terms
in Old Tamil and sporadically in many other Dravidian languages. Thus, Dravidian does attest the
PED system, but not directly in the paradigm.
McAlpin (1981:112—117) reconstructs the following personal pronoun stems for Proto-Elamo-
Dravidian:
7. Problem Areas and Future Prospects 139
Singular Plural
1 *i *hqNKq
2 *ni *nim
3 resumptive *ta(n)
reflexive *i
The 1st person singular is to be derived from Proto-Nostratic *?iya 1st person personal pronoun
stem (postnominal possessive/preverbal agentive) found also in Afroasiatic (cf. Bomhard—Kems
1984:597—598, no. 470; Dolgopolsky 1984:72, 83, 85—86, 96, and 99—100), while the 3rd
person stem *ta(n) is to be derived from the wide-spread Nostratic demonstrative stem *t[h]a-
^tf^Jo- “this” (cf. Bomhard—Kems 1984:287—289, no. 103), and the Proto-Dravidian 1st
plural (exclusive) stem *nam : *nam- “we” is to be derived from the Proto-Nostratic 1st person
personal pronoun stem *na-/*no- (cf. Bomhard—Kems 1984:683—684, no. 564; Dolgopolsky
1984:90—91) — this stem may also be the source of the Sumerian 1st person pronoun ga- /pa-/,
but this is uncertain.
To conclude, there is much in Sumerian that points to it being a Nostratic language — we
have only scratched the surface in this brief summary (for more detailed information, see the
papers by Boisson cited in the references). However, there are also many problems that must
still be solved regarding the exact nature of that relationship.
7.4. Concluding Remarks / Future Prospects
In this book, we have surveyed the evidence for setting up a Nostratic macrofamily,
paying particular attention to Indo-European and how it fits into the overall picture. We have
also discussed several problem areas. The evidence continues to accumulate to support the
Nostratic Hypothesis, and the evidence is massive and persuasive.
As the twentieth century draws to a close, it is simply no longer reasonable to hold to the
view that Indo-European is a language isolate —thirty years have already passed since Vladislav
M. Illic-Svityc and Aaron B. Dolgopolsky successfully demonstrated that Indo-European is
related to a several other language families of northern and central Eurasia and the ancient Near
East. Since then, not only has this work been continued by the Russians, it has also been taken
up by a number of other scholars in other countries, who have verified the initial results arrived
at by the Russians, who have refined the methodology, who have greatly expanded the number of
cognate sets, who have clarified issues related to phonology, who have identified additional
grammatical formants and have begun to piece together the early development of morphology in
each of the daughter languages, and who have made great strides in problems of subgrouping.
We have touched upon some of these areas in this book.
This does not mean that all of the work has been done, however. As shown by the
problem areas listed in this book (and there are many, many others), much work still needs to be
done, not only at the level of Proto-Nostratic itself but also within each of the daughter
1 40 7. Problem Areas and Future Prospects
languages. The future prospects are extremely encouraging — enough solid results have already
been achieved to lay the foundation for future research, and, to make matters even more
promising, advances in one area will impact other areas as well. The days are past when scholars
could work on problem areas in one language family without regard to work being done in other
language families. Indo-European has relatives, and these must now be taken into consideration.
8
Common Nostratic Roots
8.1. Common Nostratic Roots
In this chapter, all of the common Nostratic roots discussed in detail in my 1994 joint
monograph The Nostratic Macrofamily: A Study in Distant Linguistic Relationship are listed
exactly as they appear in that book, except that Proto-Eskimo forms have been added, as have
several additional Sumerian cognates. Corrections and new cognate sets appear at the end.
In the reconstruction of the Proto-Nostratic roots in this chapter, I mostly only give verbal
meanings. However, it must be understood that in the vast majority of cases, these roots can also
serve as nominal stems. Those roots that are exclusively nominal are indicated as such by their
meanings.
The following abbreviations will be used: PN = Proto-Nostratic; PIE = Proto-Indo-
European; PK = Proto-Kartvelian; PAA = Proto-Affoasiatic; PS = Proto-Semitic; PEC = Proto-
East Cushitic; PHEC = Proto-Highland East Cushitic; PSC = Proto-Southern Cushitic; PC =
Proto-Chadic; PU = Proto-Uralic; PFU = Proto-Finno-Ugrian; PFP = Proto-Finno-Permian; PED
= Proto-Elamo-Dravidian; PD = Proto-Dravidian; PA = Proto-Altaic; CM = Common
Mongolian; PT = Proto-Turkic; CT = Common Turkic; S = Sumerian; PE = Proto-Eskimo; PY =
Proto-Yupik; PI = Proto-Inuit. Other language names will be spelled out in full.
Note: since it is often difficult to determine the quality of certain vowels in Proto-Uralic
and Proto-Finno-Ugrian, the following cover symbol will be used: 3 = any vowel.
1 . PN *baw-/*bow- “to be or become aware of or acquainted with, to notice, to observe” > PIE
*b[h]ew-d[h]-/*b[h]ow-d[h]-/*b[h]u-d[h]- “to be or become aware of’; PAA * baw-l* bow-
“to be or become aware of’; S bu-i (rare) “knowledge, learning”.
2. PN *bur-l*bor- “to bore, to pierce” > PIE *b[h]or-/*b[h]r- “to bore, to pierce”; PAA *bar-
l*bor- “to bore, to pierce”; PU *pura “borer, auger”; PD *pur- “to bore, to perforate; borer,
gimlet”; PA *bur- “to bore through, to pierce”; S bur “to bore through, to pierce”.
3. PN *bur-/*bor- “to strike, to hit, to beat, to strike down, to strike to pieces, to smash” > PIE
*b[h]er-/*b[h]or-/*b[h]r- “to strike, to fight”; PK *brg- “to struggle, to fight”; PAA *bar-
/*bor- “to strike, to fight”; PD *por- “to fight, to engage in battle; fight, battle, war, quarrel”;
Altaic: Mongolian burci- “to raze, to destroy, to break, to crush”; S bur “to destroy, to
exterminate, to eradicate; to tear out, to pull out, to remove”, bur “to cut, to cut to pieces”,
142 8. Common Nostratic Roots
bur “to demolish, to tear down, to destroy”, bur “to cut open, to cut into; slain, killed”, bur
(-bur) “to rend, to split, to slit, to cleave, to slash”.
4. PN * bar-/* bar- “to swell, to puff up, to expand” > PIE *b[h]er-/*bp,
]or-/*b[h]r- (also
*b[h]ar-') “to swell, to puff up, to expand, to bristle”, *b[h]rst[h]-i-s “bristle, point”,
*b[h
Jrews-/*b[h
Jrows-/*b[h]rus- “to swell; swelling”, *b[h]erw-/*b[h]orw-/*b[h]rw-,
*b[hJrew-/*b[hJrow-/*b[h]ru- “to bubble up, to boil”, *b[h]ard[h]eA (> *b[h]ard[h]a)
“beard”, *b[h]rend[h]-/*b[b]rond[h]-l*b[b]rnd[h]- “to swell up”, *b[h]rew-/*b[h]ru- “to
sprout, to swell”; PK *ber- “to blow, to inflate, to puff out”; PAA * bar-1* bar- “to swell, to
puff up, to expand”; PD *par- “to swell, to grow, to expand”; S bar “to blow, to stretch or
spread out, to ferment, to blow away”, bar “to spread or stretch out, to lay out”, bara “to
spread or stretch out”, bara “to spread or stretch out, to open wide”, bar7 “to blow at or
upon”.
5. PN *bar-/*bar- “projection, bristle, point” (derivative of the preceding) > PIE *b[h]ar- (also
*b[h]or-) “projection, bristle, point”; PAA *bar- “cypress, pine, fir”.
6. PN * bar-/* bar- “to bear, to bring, to carry” > PIE *b[h]er-/*b[h]or-/*b[h]r- “to bear, to carry,
to bring forth”; PAA *bar-/*bar- “to bear, to carry, to bring forth”; PED *par “child, young
one”; S bar “origin, descent ancestry; family, descendants, offspring”.
7. PN * bar-/* bar- “to twist, to turn” > PIE *b[hJer-/*b[bJor-/*b[h
Jr- “to plait, to weave”;
Kartvelian: Georgian br-un-va “to turn, to twist”, bor-b-ali “wheel, potter’s wheel”, bru
“dizziness” in tav-bru “dizziness in the head”; PAA *bar-t*bar- “to twist, to twine, to
weave”; S bar “to twist, to twist around, to twist off’, bar “to bind, to tie up, to fasten”, bar-
bar-re “bond, fetter”; PE *paR3- “to bend”, *paR3t- “to bend (trans.)”.
8. PN *buw-/*bow- “to go, to come, to proceed, to spend (time)” > PIE *b[h]ewH-/*b[h]owH-
l*b[tI
]uH- (> *b[h
Ju-) “to spend (time), to abide, to dwell”; PAA *baw-/ *baw- “to come, to
go (in), to enter”; PD *po- “to go, to proceed, to go away, to reach a destination; to spend
time; to pass away”; S BU “to reach or arrive at a destination; to come upon, to meet, to
encounter”.
9. PN *buw-/*bow- “to become, to arise, to come into being, to grow” > PIE *b[h]ewH-/
*b[h]owH-/*b[h]uH- (> *b[h
Ju-) “to become, to arise, to come into being, to grow”; PAA
*baw-/*baw- “to be or become full, filled; to become large”; PU *puwa “tree, wood”; PD
*pu- “to bloom, to blossom, to flower, to flourish”; PA *bui- “to become, to arise, to come
into being, to increase, to grow”; PE *puva- “to swell”; PI *puvala- “to be fat”, *puvliq- “to
swell, up” (these forms either belong here or with no. 34 below).
8. Common Nostratic Roots 143
10. PN *bul-/*bol- “to swell, to expand, to spread out, to overflow, to puff up, to inflate” > PIE
*b[h]el-/*b[h]ol-/*b[h]l- “to swell, to puff up, to inflate, to expand, to bubble up, to
overflow”; Kartvelian: Georgian *blom- “multitude” in blomad “in a crowd, mass, mob,
multitude”; PAA *bal-/*bal- “to swell, to expand, to spread out, to overflow”; S bul “to
blow, to breathe, to puff’.
1 1. PN *bul-uS'-/*bol-uT- “to ripen, to blossom, to bloom, to sprout, to mature” (extended form
of the preceding) > PIE *bp,
]ul$fi-/*b[h
]ol
l
ifi-, *b[h]lo
<
ifi- (> *b[h]lo-\ later also *b[h]le-) “to
blossom, to sprout”; PAA * bala?-/* bold?-/* halo?-/*boloT- “to grow, to mature”; PD *pol-
“to increase, to flourish, to prosper, to abound”; PA *bol- “to become”; S bulug3 “to grow, to
make grow”.
12. PN *bul-/*bol- “to mix, to mix up, to confuse” > PIE *bP']lend[h]-/*b[h]lond[h]-/
*b[h]lnd[h]- “to mix, to blend”; PAA *bal-/*bal- “to mix, to mix up, to confuse”; PA *bul-
“to mix, to mix up, to confuse”.
13. PN *bal-/*bal- “to be or become dark, obscure, blind” > PIE *b[h]lend[h]-l*b[h]lond[h]-l
*b[h]lnd[h]- “to make blind, to blind”; PAA *bal-/*bal- “to be blind”; Altaic: Mongolian
balai “dark, obscure, ignorant; intellectually or morally blind; stupid”, balar “dark, obscure,
blind, unclear, ignorant; primitive, primeval; thick, dense, impenetrable”; Manchu balu
“blind”.
14. PN *bul-/*bol- “to become worn out, weak, tired, old” > PIE *b[h]ol- “worn out, weak;
misfortune, calamity”; PAA *bal-/*bal- “to become worn out”; PD *pul- “to wither, to fade,
to become weak, to decrease”.
15. PN *baly-/*boly- “to shine, to be bright” > PIE *b[h]el-/*b[h]ol- “shining, white”, *b[h]les-
/*b[h]los- “to shine”, *bp]liyC-/*bp]leyC- (> *b[h]lT-/*b[h
Jle-), *b[»]liyV-/*b[»]leyV- “to
shine”, *b[h]lu~, *b[»]luH- (> *b[h]lu-) “to shine”, *b[»Jelk ’-/*b[».]olk ’-/*b[
h]lk *b[»]lek’-
/*b[h]lok’- “to shine”; PAA *bal-/*bol- “to shine, to be bright”; PD *pal- “to glitter, to
shine”.
16. PN * bar-1*bar- “to shine, to be bright” > PIE *b[h]erEk’-, *b[hJreEk’- (> *b[h]rek'-) “to
shine, to gleam, to be bright”; PK *berc'q’-/*brc’q’- “to shine”; PAA * bar-/* bar- “to shine,
to be bright”; PD *par- “to shine (brightly), to become dawn”; S bar “to shine, to light, to
illuminate, to sparkle, to glitter, to glisten; bright, shining; light, brightness”, barg-bar6 “light,
white; to whiten, to make white”.
144 8. Common Nostratic Roots
17. PN * bar-/*bar- “to be kind, charitable, beneficent, to do good” > PIE *b[h]er-/*b[hJor-/
*b[h]r- “to be kind, charitable, beneficent; to do good”; PAA * bar-/*bar- “to be kind,
charitable, beneficent, to do good”; PFU *para “good”.
18. PN *bad-/*bad- “to split, to cleave, to separate, to divide” > PIE *b[h]ed[h]-/*b[h]odP']- “to
prick, to pierce, to dig”; PAA * bad-/* bad- “to split, to cleave, to separate”; PD *pat- “to
break (intr.), to break out, to smash, to split”; S bad-du “to separate, to divide, to part”, bads
“to divide, to separate”; PE *pada “opening or entrance”.
19. PN *bur-gy-l*bor-gy- “to protrude, to be prominent” > PIE *b[h]erg[h]-/*b[h]org[h]-/
*b[h]rg[h
]- “high; mountain, hill”; PK *brg- “strong, powerful, high, large”; PAA *baragy-
/*baragy-/*baragy-/*baragy- “to protrude, to stand out”; PD *por- “mountain, hill, top”; PA
*burga(n) “(wooded) mountain, (wooded) pasture, promontory”.
20. PN * bah-/*bah- “to shine” > PIE *b[»]eh- (*[b[h]ah-f])/*b[h]oh- (> *b[h]a-/*b[h]o-) “to
shine”; PAA *bah-/*bah- “to shine”.
21. PN *bah-l*bah- “to say, to speak” > PIE *b[h]eh- (*[bfh]ah-]) (> *b[h]a-) “to say, to speak”;
PAA * bah-/*bah- “to say, to speak”.
22. PN *bak’-/*bak’- “to cleave, to split, to break open” > PIE *b[hJek’-/*b[h
Jok’- “to cut or split
apart, to break apart”, *b[h]ak’- “to divide, to distribute”; PAA *bak'-t*bak'- “to cleave, to
split, to break open”; PFU *pakka- “to burst, to rend, to split”; PD *pak- “to split, to break, to
divide, to separate; to be split, divided”; PI *pakak- “to knock into” (cf. West Canadian Inuit
[Sight] pakaq- “to knock against and break”].
23. PN *bi/*be “in addition to, with, together with” > PIE *(-)b[h]i/y-, *-b[h]o- “in, with,
among”; PAA *ba/*ba “in, with, within, among”; S bi “with, together with, in addition to”,
-bi, bi-da, -bi-(da) “and”.
24. PN * bar-/*bar- “seed, grain” > PIE *b[h]ars- “grain”; PAA *bar-/*bar- “grain, cereal”; PD
*par- “grain, seed, pebble”; S bar “seed”.
25. PN * bay-/* bay- “to apportion, to divide into shares, to distribute, to allot” > PIE *b[h]ey-/
*b[h]oy- “to give” (found only in Anatolian); PAA * bay-/*bay- “to apportion, to separate
into equal parts, to distribute into shares”; PA *baya(n) “rich”; S ba “to give as a gift or
ration”; PE *payuy- “to bring food or supplies to” (cf. East Canadian Inuit payuk- “to bring a
gift to”; West Canadian Inuit payuk- “to give food, clothing to those remaining”).
8. Common Nostratic Roots 145
26. PN *bany-/*bany- “to join together, to fit together, to fasten, to twist together, to form or
produce in any way” > PIE *b[h]en-d[h]-/*b[h]on-d[h]-/*b[h]n-d[h]- “to join together, to fit
together, to fasten, to twist together, to form or produce in any way”; PAA *ban-l*ban- “to
join together, to fit together, to fasten, to twist together, to form or produce in any way”; PD
*pan- “service, work, business; act, action; to make, to produce, to build”.
27. PN *bay-/*bay- “bee, honey” > PIE *b[h]i- “bee”; Affoasiatic: Egyptian bi-t, by-t “bee,
honey”.
28. PN *bun-/*bon- “to puff up, to inflate, to expand, to make to swell”; (extended form) *bun-g-
/*bon-g- “to swell, to fatten, to increase, to expand” > PIE *b[h]eng[h]-l*b[h]ong[h]-
t*b[h]ng[h
J- “to swell, to fatten, to grow, to increase”, *b[h]ng[h]u- “fat, swollen, thick”;
PFU *puT)ka, *pot)ka “rounded protuberance, lump”; PD *ponk- “to increase, to swell, to
expand”; S bun “to blow, to inflate; breath”.
29. PN *bury-/*bory- “dark-colored” > PIE *b[h]er-, *b[h]ru- “brown”; Affoasiatic: PEC *bo?r-
(< *bor?-) “yellow, brown, red, dark-colored”; PA *bory- “gray, brown” (< “dark-colored”).
30. PN *bur-/*bor- “to cover, to enclose, to wrap up” > PK *bur- “to cover, to enclose”; PD
*pdr- “to wrap around (the body), to cover, to enclose; a cover, covering, wrapping”; PA
*buri- “to cover, to enclose”.
31. PN *bur-/*bor- “to whirl, to rage, to palpitate” > PIE *bp,
]ur-/*b[h]r- “to move rapidly, to
rage, to quiver, to palpitate”; PU *purka “snowstorm, drifting of snow”; PA *bur- “to whirl,
to rage; storm, snowstorm”.
32. PN *bar-/*bar- “to scrape, to cut, to carve, to whittle, to trim” > PIE *b[h]ord[h]-l
*b[h]rd[h
]-, *b[hJred[h
J- “(piece) cut off’; PAA * bar-1*bar- “to scrape, to cut, to carve”; PU
*para- “to scrape, to cut, to carve”; S bar “to split (with a tool or weapon)”, bar “to cut into,
to notch, to cut or slit open, to carve, to slice, to cut up”, bar “to dig, to excavate”.
33. PN *bar-/*bar- “to make a sound, to utter a noise” > PIE *b[h]er-/*b[h]or-/*b[h]r- “to make
a sound, to hum, to buzz, to mutter”, *b[h]erk’-/*b[h]ork’-/*b[h]rk’- “to drone, to bark”,
*b[h]erk[h]- “to yelp, to roar, to buzz, to sing”, *b[h]erm-l*b[h]orm-/*b[h]pn-, *b[h]rem-
/* bP'Jrom
-
“to buzz, to hum, to make a sound”; PK *br- “to sing”; PD *par- “to speak, to
say, to mutter”, *park- “to snore”.
34. PN *p[h
]uw-/*pP1
Jow- “to puff, to blow, to exhale; to puff up, to inflate” > PIE *p[h]u- “to
puff, to puff up, to blow”; PK *p[h]u- “to swell, to puff up, to inflate”; PAA *p[h]aw-
146 8. Common Nostratic Roots
/*pP’
Jaw- “to puff, to blow, to exhale”; PU *puwa- “to blow”; PD *pu- “to fart”; PE *puvo-
“to swell”; PI *puvala- “to be fat”, *puvliq- “to swell, up” (these forms either belong here or
with no. 9 above).
35. PN *pP‘]ily-/*pP‘]ely- “to split, to cleave” > PIE *p[h]el-/*p[h]ol-l*p[h]l- (*p[h]l-ey-l*pp]-
loy-; *pP']l-iyC-/*p[h]l-eyC- > *p[h]UC-I*p[h
JleC-) “to split, to cleave”; PAA *pP'Jal-/
*p[h]2l- “to split, to cleave”; PU *pily3- “to cleave, to split”; PD *pil- “to cleave asunder, to
divide, to crush; to be split, cleaved, rent, cracked; to cleave, to rend, to part asunder”; PE
*pilay- “to butcher”, *pilaytuR- “to cut up”.
36. PN *p[h]al-l*p[h
Jol- “stone” > PIE *p[*]els-l*pP>]ols-/*pP>Jls- “stone”; PAA *p[h]al-
!*pP']ol- “stone”.
37. PN *p[h
Jar-1*pP1
Jar- “to separate, to divide” > PIE *p[h]er-/*pp]or-/*ppJr- “to separate, to
divide”; PK *pP']ric'- “to tear, to rend, to break or burst apart”; PAA *p[h]ar-/*p[hJar- “to
separate, to divide”; PD *par- “to separate, to cut asunder, to break off, to rend, to tear off’,
*pir- “to separate, to part, to sever”.
38. PN *p[h]at[h
J-CppJatp]- “to open; to be open, wide, spacious” > PIE *pp]etp]-!
*p[h
Jo![
h]- “to open, to be open”; PAA *pP']atp]-/*pP
,
]otP’]- “to open; to be open, wide,
spacious”.
39. PN *pP']ir-/*pP']er- “to bring forth, to bear fruit” > PIE *pP']er-/*pPl
]r- “to bear, to bring
forth”; PAA *pP,
]ar-l*pP']or- “to bring forth, to bear fruit”; PD *per- “to get, to beget, to
bear”; PA *pure “seed, fruit; result, offspring”.
40. PN *pP‘]a?-/*pP>]3?- “to swell, to fatten” > PIE *pP>]e?y V-/*p[h]o?y V-I*ppp?yV- > (with
metathesis) *pP’]ey? V-/*p[h
Joy? V-I*p[h]oy? V- > (with loss of the laryngeal) *pP']eyV-l
*pP
1
Joy V-/*p[h]iy V- (and, later, analogical *pP1
]eyC-/*ppJoyC-CppJiyC- [> *pP']TC-]) “to
swell, to fatten”; *pP']o?iC- > (with syncope of*/) *pP
1
]o?C- > (with loss of the laryngeal)
*pP']oC- (note 3rd sg. *pP
I
]i-*pP']?-etP']i > Sanskrit pibati “drinks, swallows”); *pP']o?yV-
/*p[h]3?yV- > (with metathesis) *ppJoy? V-/*pp]oy? V- > (with loss of the laryngeal)
*pP’JoyV-/*p[hJiyV- (and, later, analogical *pP']oyC-/*pP1
]iyC- [> *pP'JlC-]) “to drink, to
swallow”; PAA *p[h]a?-/*p[h]o?- “to swell, to fatten”; PD *pacci “milk, mother’s milk”,
*pal “milk”, *par- “to grow, to become (in compounds)”.
41. PN *pP
1
]ar-l*p[h
Jor- “to precede, to surpass, to outstrip, to overtake” > PIE *pP1
]er-l
*pP']or-!*p[h
Jr- “preceding, surpassing” (used as the base of prepositions and preverbs and a
8. Common Nostratic Roots 147
wide range of extended meanings); PAA *p[h]ar-/*p[h]ar- “to precede, to surpass, to
outstrip”.
42. PN *p[h]asy-/*p[h]osy- “to breathe out, to blow, to fart” > PIE *p[h]est’-/*p[h]ost'- “to fart”,
*p[h]es-/*p[h]os- “to blow”; PAA *p[h]asy-l*p[b]3sy- “to breathe out, to blow, to fart”; S
pes,pes5,pes6 “to breathe, to respire; to breathe a sigh of relief; to blow”.
43. PN *p[h]a?-w-/*p[h]3?-w- “fire, flame, spark; to warm, to heat” > PIE *p[h]9?fiw/u-r/n-
“fire”; PK *p[h]x(w)- “warm”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian p‘w “flames, fire”; PU *pawa “warm;
to heat, to warm”; PD *pu- “spark; ember, burning coal”; (?) Altaic: CM *pe- “to be dried in
the sunshine, to warm oneself’.
44. PN *p[h]at'-l*p[h]3t'- “to hasten, to move quickly; foot” > PIE *p[h
Jet '-!*p[hjot “foot”;
PAA *p[h
Jat
,
-!*p[h
Jgt “to hasten, to move quickly; foot”; PA *padak “foot, end”.
45. PN *p[h]at[h]-l*p[h]3t[h]- “to flutter, to quiver, to tremble, to palpitate, to move rapidly” >
PIE *p[h]et[h]-/*p[h]ot[h
J- “to fly, to rush, to pursue; to fall, to fall down”; PK
*p[h]et[h]k[h]- “to quiver, to tremble, to vibrate, to explode”; PAA *p[h
Jat[h
J-/*p[
h
]3tfh
J-
“to rush, to hurry, to go rapidly; to fall down”; PD *pat- “to hurry; to flutter, to quiver, to
shake; to be flurried, impatient, overhasty”.
46. PN *p[h]ar-/*p[h]3r- “to spread, to scatter” > PIE *p[h]er-/*p[hJor- “to spray, to spread, to
scatter” (extended forms *p[h]r-eE- [> *p[h]r-e-], *p[h]r-ew-/*p[h]r-ow-/*p[h
Jr-u-); PAA
*p[h]ar-/*p[h
Jar- “to spread, to scatter”; PD *par- “to spread”; S par “to spread or stretch
out”.
47. PN *p[h
Jar-/*p[h]3r- “to move swiftly, to hasten, to be in a hurry, to be greatly agitated; to
fly, to flee” > PIE *p[h]er-/*p[h]or-l*p[h]r- “to fly, to flee”; PK *p[h]r-in- “to fly”; PAA
*p[h
Jar-^pP1
Jar- “to fly, to flee”; PD *par- “to fly, to flee; to hasten, to hurry”, PD *par- “to
run, to flow, to move quickly”; PI *paRla- “to hurry eagerly towards”.
48. PN *p[h]al-/*p[h
Jol- “flat, level, broad” > PIE *p[h]el-/*p[h]ol-/*p[h
]\- (extended forms
*p[h]dhh-, *p[h]lehh- [> *p[h]la-], *p[hJltih-) “even, level, flat, wide, broad”; PAA *p[h]al-
/*pf
h
Jgl- “flat, level, broad”.
49. PN *p[h
Jal-^ppJal- “flat of the hand, palm” (derivative of the preceding”) > PIE *p[h
Jlhh-
meA [*ppJlhh-maA] “palm of the hand”; PA *pala “palm of the hand”.
148 8. Common Nostratic Roots
50. PN *p[h
Jur-/*p[h]or- “calf, heifer” > PIE *p[h
Jor-/*p[h
Jr- “young bull or calf’; PK *p[h
Jur-
“cow”; PAA *p[h]ar-l*p[h]or- “young bull or calf’; PD *por- “bull calf, bullock”.
51. PN *p[h]asy-l*p[hJos*- “to split, to cleave, to break, to shatter” > PK *p[h
Jes- (“to burst, to
break” >) “to explode (noisily)”; PAA *p[h
Jasy-/*p[h]9sy- “to split, to cleave, to sever”; PU
*pasya “to break, to shatter; to tear, to split”; PD *pa(y)-/*pac- “to divide, to separate, to
distribute”; S pess “to break, to smash, to shatter”; (?) PY (Sirenikski) *pasi- “to smash or
hit”.
52. PN *p[h]ah-/*p[h]9fi- “to eat” > PIE *p[h]ehh- [*p[h]afih-]/*p[h]ofih- > ( *p[h]a-/*p[h]d-)
“to feed”; PAA *p[h
jah-CpP1
]oti- “to eat”.
53. PN *p[h]ul-l*p[h]ol- verbal stem indicating downward motion: “to fall, to fall down” > PIE
*p[h]ol- “to fall, to fall down”; PAA *p[h]al-/*p[h
Jol- verbal stem indicating downward
motion: “to fall, to fall down, to fall to the ground; to set (sun), to grow dark”.
54. PN *p[»]al-/*p[
h]3l- “to fill” > PIE *p[h]el?-l*p[h]ol?-/*p[h]l?-, *p[h]le?-/*p[»]lo?- (>
*p[h
Jle-/*p[h
Jlo-) “to fill”; PU *palya “much”; PD *pala “many, much, several”; PA *pule
“to be enough, to be superfluous”.
55. PN *p[h]al-/*p[h]9l- “settlement, settled place” > PIE *p[h]lH- “citadel, fortified high
place”; PFU *paly3 “village, dwelling-place”; PD *palli “settlement, hamlet, village”; PA
*palaga “city, town, village”.
56. PN *p[h]al-!*p[h]ol- “thumb” > PIE *p[h]ol- “thumb”; PU *palka “thumb”.
57. PN *p[h]id-/*p[h
Jed- “to seize, to hold, to clutch, to capture, to cling to” > PAA *p[h]ad-/
*p[h]od- “to snatch away, to recover, to get back, to rescue”; PFU *pita- “to seize, to hold, to
grasp, to cling to”; PD *piti “to catch, to grasp, to seize, to snatch to capture”.
58. PN *p[h]iny-/*p[h]eny- “to watch (over), to protect, to nourish, to nurture” > PIE *p[h]en-
“food, protection”; PU *punya- “to watch (over), to protect, to preserve, to keep”; PD *pen-
“protection; to protect, to take care of’.
59. PN *p[h]al-!*p[h]ol- “to cover, to hide, to conceal” > PIE *p[h]el-/*p[h]ol-/*p[h
]j- “to cover,
to hide, to conceal”; PK *p[h]al- “to hide, to conceal”; S pala “clothes, clothing (of a god or
king)”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 149
60. PN *p[h]al-l*p[h]gl- (“covering” >) “skin, hide” (derivative of the preceding) > PIE *p[h]el-
“skin, hide”; Afroasiatic: PSC *fal- or *faal- “skin, hide, rash”.
61. PN *p[h]ir-/*p[h]er- (?) “house” > Indo-European: Hittite (nom.-acc. sg.) pi-ir “house”.
Hieroglyphic Luwian parn- “house”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian pr “house”; PD *puray “house,
dwelling”.
62. PN *p[h]asy-/*p[h]9sy- “to squirt out, to ejaculate; penis” > PIE *p[h]es-/*p[h]os- “penis”;
PFU *pasy3 “penis”; PA *pusu “to squirt out, to pour”; S pes “sperm, semen”, pes
“descendant, offspring, son”.
63. PN *p[h]aly-/*p[h]9ly- “to bum, to be warm; to smart, to be painful” > PIE *p[h]el-/*p[h]o!~,
*p[h]loH- (> *p[h]o-) “to bum, to be warm; to smart, to be painful”; PK *o-p[h]l- “sweat,
perspiration”; PFU *palya- “to bum; to be cold, to be freezing; to smart”.
64. PN *p[h]il-/*p[h]el- “to tremble, to shake; to be frightened, fearful, afraid” > PIE *p[h
Jel-/
*P[
h
J°l-/*p[
h
JJ- “to tremble, to shake; to be frightened, fearful, afraid”; PAA *p[h]al-
/*pP
I
]al- “to tremble, to shake; to be frightened, fearful, afraid, awe-struck”; PU *pela- “to
fear, to be afraid”.
65. PN *p[h]ac’-l*p[h]3c'- “to part, to separate from, to split or break open, to split or break
apart” > Kartvelian: Mingrelian pac- “to open”; PAA *p[h]ac’-/*p[h]3c’- “to split apart, to
separate, to cleave”; PU *paca- “to part, to separate from, to break open or apart”.
66. PN *p[h]ir-/*p[h]er- “to turn, to twist” > PIE *p[h]eri “around”; PU *pira “round; any round
object; around, round about”; PD *pir- “to twist, to turn; a twist, twining, twisting, strand”; S
pir “to wrinkle, to crumple; to be rolled up, contracted”; PE *piRdiR- “to braid or weave”.
67. PN *p[h
]ir-/*pP1
]er- “to ask, to request, to entreat, to beseech” > PIE *p[h]erk[h]-l
*p[h]rk[h
]-, *p[h]rek[h]-/*p[hJrok[b
J- “to ask, to request”; Afroasiatic: PSC *fir- “to pray,
to ask for (something)”; PA *piru- “to pray, to ask”.
68. PN *p[h]ir-/*p[b]er- “to tremble, to shake; to be afraid, to fear” > PIE *p[hJerk[h
J-/
*p[h]rk[h
J- “to be afraid, to fear”; PK *p[h]ert[h]x- “to shake”; PAA *p[h]ar-/*p[h]9r- “to
tremble, to shake, to quiver”; PD *pir- “to tremble”; PA *purk- “to be afraid”.
69. PN *p[h]ar-!*p[h
Jar- “to go or pass; to go or pass over or across; to go forth or out” > PIE
*p[h
Jer-PpP1
Jor-PpP1
Jr- “to go or pass; to go or pass over or across”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian
150 8. Common Nostratic Roots
pri “to go, to come out, to go forth; to go up, to ascend”, prw “motion, procession, outcome,
result”, prt “(ritual) procession”; S par “to go or pass by, to go past”.
70. PN *diy-/*dey- “to throw, to cast, to put, to place” > PIE ( *d[h]ey-C
-
>) *d[h]e- “to set, to
put, to place”; PAA * day-1*day- “to cast, to put, to place”.
71. PN * dab-1*dab- “to make fast, to join together, to fasten (together)” > PIE *d[h]ab[h]- “to fit
together”; PAA * dab-1*dab- “to stick together, to join together”; S dab “to grasp, to seize, to
take; to pack; to bind, to fasten (together); to hold”, dabs “to catch, to seize, to capture; to
take; to grasp; to pack; to bind; to hold tightly”.
72. PN *duly-l*doly- “to dangle, to swing back and forth” > PIE *d[h]el-!*d[h]ol- “to swing, to
dangle”; PAA *dal-/*dal- “to dangle, to hand”; PD *tul- “to move, to sway from side to side,
to shake; to hang, to swing”.
73. PN *duny-/*dony- “to cut off, to cleave, to split” > PIE *d[h]en-/*d[h]on-/*d[h]n- “to cut, to
cut off, to cleave”; PAA *dan-1*dan- “to cut, to cut off, to cleave”; PD *tun- “to be sundered,
cut, severed; to cut, to sever”; S dun “to dig (with a hoe)”.
74. PN * day-/*day- “to look at, to consider, to examine” > PIE *d[h]ey-A-/*d[h]oy-A-/*d[h]i-A-
(> *d[h]I-) “to look at”; PAA * day-/*day- “to look at, to consider, to examine”’ PD *te-t-,
*te-nt- “to seek, to search for”.
75. PN *daw-/*daw- (?) “to sound, to resound, to make a noise” > PIE *d[h]w-en-/*d[h]u-n- “to
sound, to resound”; PAA * daw-/*daw- “to sound, to resound”; S duI2 “to play (an
instrument), to sing”.
76. PN *dur-/*dor- “spot, dirt, blemish” > PIE *d[h]er-/*d[h]or-l*d[h]r- “dirt, filth”; Affoasiatic:
Arabic darina “to be dirty, filthy”, daran “dirt, filth”; PD *tur- “rust, spot, dirt, blemish,
stain, defect”.
77. PN *dum-/*dom- “to become dark” > PIE *d[h]em-/*d[h]om- “dark; to darken, to make
dark”; PAA *dam-1*dam- “to become dark”.
78. PN ( *dum-k’w-/*dom-k'w-
>) *dun-k'w-/*don-k’w- “to cover over, to obscure, to make dark”
(derivative of the preceding) > PIE *d[h]enk'w-l*d[
h]onk’w-l*d[h]nk'w- “to be or become
dark”; Altaic: Manchu dug “a cave”, durjgu “a cave, grotto”; S dungu “cloud”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 151
79 PN * dal-l* dol- “to cut, to prick, to pierce, to gash, to notch, to wound” > PIE *d[h
Jel-b[h]-/
*d[h
Jol-b[h
J-/*d[h]l-b[h
J- “to dig, to hollow out”, *d[h]el-g[h
J-/*d[h
Jol-g[h]-/*d[h
Jl-g[h]- “to
gash, to wound”, *d[hJel-k’-/*d[hJol-k’-/*d[h]]-k’- “sharp object; to prick, to pierce”; PAA
*dal-/*dol- “to cut, to prick, to pierce, to gash, to notch”; PD *tall- “to strike, to hit, to beat”;
Altaic: Mongolian delbere- “to split or crack open, to burst, to split, to crack, to rupture”;
Evenki derpeli- “to split, to cleave, to rend”; Turkish delmek “to bore, to pierce”; S dala
“thorn, needle”.
80. PN * dig-/*deg- “fish” > PIE *dp]g[>']uH- (> *d[»JgP’]u-) “fish”; PAA *dag- “fish”; PA
*diga- “fish” (> pre-Mongolian *
3iga- [> *jaga-]).
81. PN *diq[h]-l*deq[h]- “earth, ground, soil, clay” > PIE ^deqp]- > [with progressive voicing
assimilation] *deG- >) *d[h]eg[h
J-om-, *d[h
]g[
h]-om- “earth, ground; human being”; PK
*diq[h
Ja “earth, clay”.
82. PN * dag-/*dog- “to glitter, to shine, to bum brightly; day” > PIE *d[h]og[h]- “day”;
Afroasiatic: Geez (reduplicated) dagdaga “to be early in the morning, to get up early in the
morning”; PD*tak-(tak-) “to glitter, to shine”; S (reduplicated) dadag “clear, shining, bright,
radiant, brilliant, luminous”, dag “shining, bright, clean”.
83. PN * dan-/*don- “to run, to flow” > PIE *d[h
]en-/*d[h]on-/*d[h]n- “to run, to flow”; PK
*den-/*din- “to run, to flow”, *dn- “to melt”; Afroasiatic: PHEC *dun- “to leak (for
example, bag, roof)”, *dun-am- “to leak (for example, water)”.
84. PN *
dar-/*dor- “to bend, to twist, to turn” > PIE *d[h]erg[h]-/*d[h]org[h
]-/*dpJrgp']-,
*d[h]reg[h]-/*d[h]rog[h]- “to turn”; PK *dr-ek’- “to bend (trans.)”, *der-k’- “to bend, to
stoop (intr.)”; PAA *dar-/*dor- “to go, to walk, to proceed; to wrap, to wind, to twist”.
85. PN *daw-/*dow- “to become exhausted, to die” > PIE *d[h]ew-/*d[h]ow-/*d[h]u- “to
become exhausted, to die”; PAA *daw-/*dow- “to be sick, ill; to die”.
86. PN *dily-/*dely- “to shine, to be or become bright” > PIE *d[h]el- “to be shining, bright”; PK
*dila “morning”; PAA * dal-/* dot- “to shine, to be bright”; PD *tel- “to be bright, to become
white; to become clear; to shine, to sparkle”; S dil-bad “to shine, to be radiant, to gleam;
shining, bright”.
87. PN *dul-/*dol- “to bum, to be bright” > PU *tula “fire”; PD ( *tuly- >) *tuf- “to shine, to
sparkle, to glitter, to be bright”; PA *dul- “to warm”.
1 52 8. Common Nostratic Roots
88. PN *day-/*day- “to take, to bring, to convey” > PAA * day-/* day- “to bring, to convey, to
lead”; PD *ta-, *ta-, *tccy- “to bring”; S de, de6, di “to bring”.
89. PN * dal*do “along with, together with, in addition to” > PIE suffixed particle *-d[h
Ji,
*-d[h
Je; PK *da “and”; Affoasiatic: PC *da “with, and”; Elamo-Dravidian: Elamite da
“also, too, as well, likewise; to, therefore, consequently, accordingly, hence, thereby,
thereupon”; PA locative suffix *-da, independent particle *da “together with, and. also”; S da
“with, together with, along with, besides” also used as a comitative ending in the meaning
“with, together with”.
90. PN *daw-/*dow- “to put, to place, to set; to set up, to establish; to do, to make; to stay, to
remain” > PK *dew-/*dw- “to lay, to put, to place, to set, to lie”; S du “to do, to make; to
build; to set up, to establish”, du6 “to sit, to be seated; to stay, to remain”.
91. PN *t[h]ak[h]-/*t[h]3k[h]- “to form, to fashion, to make, to create” > PIE *t[h]ek[h](s)-
l*tP'Jok[h
J(s)- “to form, to fashion, to make, to create”; PFU *teke- “to do, to make”.
92. PN *t[h
]ap[h
]-/*tP']3p[
b]- “to bum, to be hot” > PIE *t[h
Jepp]-!*t[h]op[h]- “to bum, to be
hot”; PAA *t[h]ap[h]-/*t[h
]3p[h]- “to bum, to be hot”.
93. PN *t[h]ir-!*t[h]er- “to be or become full, to be satisfied” > PAA *t[h]ar-/*t[h]3r- “to be or
become full, to increase, to add to”; PU *tird- “to fill, to become full, to become satisfied”.
94. PN *t[h]ir-ap[h]-l*t[h]er-ap[h
J- “to have all need fulfilled, to have enough, to be satisfied”
(extended form of the preceding) > PIE *tP']erpP,
]-/*t[h]orp[h]-/*t[h]rp[h
]-, *t[h]rep[h]-l
*t[h
Jrop[h]- “to be satisfied, to have enough”; PAA *t[h]arap[h]-l*t[h]ar3p[h]-l*t[h]3rap[h]-
l*t[h]3r3p[h
J- “to have all needs fulfilled, to have enough, to be satisfied”.
95. PN *t[h]ary-/*t[h]3ry- “to rub, to wear down” > PIE *t[h]er-l*t[h]or-l*t[h]r- “to mb, to wear
down”; PD *tar- “to mb, to wear away, to grind; to be worn out, mbbed, ground”; S tar “to
be distressed, troubled”.
96. PN *t[h]ary-/*t[h]9ry- “weak, frail, delicate” (derivative of the preceding) > PIE *t[h]er-l
*t[h]or- “weak, frail, delicate”; Affoasiatic: Egyptian tr “to be weak”.
97. PN *t[h]ir-/*t[h]er- “to tremble, to shake” > PIE *t[h]er-s-, *t[h]r-es- “to tremble, to shake”,
*t[h]r-em- “to tremble, to shake”; PK *t[h]rt[h]- “to tremble”; PAA *t[hJar-/*t[h]3r- “to
tremble, to shake”; PD *tir- “to tremble”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 153
98. PN *t[h]aly-/*t[h]9ly- (primary meaning) “to stretch, to spread, to extend”, then “to lift, to
raise, to make high” > PIE *t[h]el-l*t[h]ol-l*t[h]l- “to lift, to raise, to stretch, to extend”;
PAA *t[h]al-/*t[h]ol- “to lift, to raise, to stretch, to spread, to extend”; PD *tal- “to bear, to
carry, to suffer, to tolerate”, *tel- “thin, delicate; thinness, delicateness”; PA *taly- “to
stretch, to extend, to be or make wide; to lift, to raise, to carry; (adj.) spread, wide, broad,
level, flat”; S tal “to be or make wide, broad; to spread wide”.
99. PN *t[h]ar-/*t[h]ar- “to be dry, arid” > PIE *t[h]ers-/*t[b]ors-/*t[h
]p- “to be or become
dry”; PAA *t[h]ar-l*t[h]or- “to be dry, arid”.
1 00. PN *t[b
Jak ’-/*t[h]ok “to touch, to push, to strike” > PIE *t[h]ak “to touch, to strike, to
push, to stroke”; PAA *t[h]ak'-l*t[h]ok “to touch, to push, to strike”; PD *tak- “to come
into contact with, to touch, to hit, to strike against”; S tag “to touch”.
101. PN *t[h]am-!*t[hjam- “to cover over, to hide; to become dark” > PIE *t[h]em-/*t[h]om-
“dark, darkness”; PAA *t[h]am-l*t[h]3m- “to cover over, to hide; to become dark”; PY
(Sirenikski) *ta(a)mhk “darkness”.
102. PN *t[h]H*t[h]e “you” > PIE (nom. sg.) *t[h]u “you”, (acc. sg.) *t[h]we/*t[h]S\ (2nd. pi.
verb ending) *-t[b]e\ PAA *t[h]al*t[h]o “you”; PU (sg.) *te “you”, (pi.) *te “you”; Elamo-
Dravidian: Elamite (2nd sg. verb ending) -t\ Dravidian: Paiji (appositional marker of 2nd sg.
in pronominalized nouns and verb suffix of 2nd sg.) PA *ti (> CM *ci); S za-e “you”, (2nd
sg. possessive suffix) -zu “your”; Eskimo-Aleut: West Greenlandic 2nd sg. absolutive
possessive suffix -(i)t.
103. PN (demonstrative pronoun stems) *t[h]a-/*t[h]a- “this”, *t[h]u-/*t[h]o- “that” > PIE
*t[h
Jo- “this, that”; PAA *t[h]a-l*t[
h]3- “this, that”; PU *ta/*ta “this”, *to- “that”; PD
*ti(m)- “they, themselves”; PA *te “that”.
104. PN *t[h]aw-/*t[h]9w- “to swell” > PIE *t[h]ew-l*t[h]ow-/*t[h]u- “to swell”; Afroasiatic:
Egyptian twi-w “pustules, swellings”; PFU *taw8e “full”; PD *tava “much, abundantly,
greatly”.
105. PN *1[h]ik'-l*t[h]ek’- “to be or become established, firm, solid” > PIE *t[h]ek’-u- “firm,
solid, thick”; PAA *t[h
Jak
,
-/*t[h
Jok “to be or become established, firm, solid”; PA *tigirak
“thick, massive, firm, solid, vigorous”.
106. PN *t[h]any-/*t[h]3ny- “to extend, to spread, to stretch” > PIE *t[h]en-/*t[h]on-/*t[h]n-
“to extend, to spread, to stretch”, *t[h]on-u-s “thin”, *t[h]en-k[h]- “to stretch, to extend”,
154 8. Common Nostratic Roots
(* tP'Jen-pP’]- > [through assimilation]) *t[h
Jem-p[h
J- “to stretch”, *t[h]on-k’- “to think, to
feel”; PAA *t[h
]an-/*t[h]3n- “to extend, to spread, to stretch, to endure”; PD *tan- “to
increase, to thrive, to abound”; (?) Altaic: Classical Mongolian tani- “to know, to leant”.
107. PN *t[hJum-/*t[h]om- “to fill, to fulfill” > PAA *t[h]am-/*t[h]3m- “to fulfill, to finish, to
complete, to terminate, to end; to be fulfilled, completed, finished, ended, done”; PFU
*(*tum-ke- > [through assimilation]) *tupke- “to fill up, to stuff in, to cram”; PD *tump- “to
be or become full, filled up, complete; to fill, to abound; (adj.) abundant, much”; S turn
“abundance, plenty”.
108. PN *t[h]aly-/*t[h]3ly- “to push, to thrust” > PIE *t[h]elk[h]-/*t[h]olk[h]-/*t[h]lk[h
J- “to
push, to thrust”; PK *t[h]el- “to press”; PAA *t[h]al-l*t[h]3l- “to push, to thrust”; PFU
*toly3- “to push, to shove, to thrust”; PD *tal- “to push, to shove, to thrust, to press through”.
109. PN *t[h]al-!*t[h]ol- “head, top, end” > PIE *t[h]al- “head, top, end”; PD *tal- “head, top,
end”.
110. PN *t[hJur-/*t[h
Jor- “to cram, to push in, to stuff, to thrust in, to press in” > PIE *t[h
Jr-
(*t[h]r-ew-d[h]-l*t[h]r-ow-d[h]-l*t[h]r-u-d[h
]-\ *t[h]r-en-k[h
]-), *t[h
Jr- “to cram, to push in,
to stuff, to thrust in, to press in”; PD *tur- “to cram, to stuff, to force in, to press or crowd
into, to thrust in”.
111. PN *t[h]ah-l*t[h]3h- “to reduce, to diminish, to wear away, to lessen” > PIE *t[h]etip-
[*t[h]ahh-'\ (> *t[h
Ja-; *t[h]a-y~, *t[h]a-w-) “to melt, to dissolve”; PK *t[h]xe- “to reduce, to
diminish; to pour out, to empty”; PAA *t[h]ah-l*t[h]ofi- “to wear away”; PD *tey- “to wear
away by friction, to be rubbed, to wane, to waste away”.
1 12. PN *tf
h]ar-/*t[h]9r- “to draw, to pull, to drag” > PIE *t[h]r-eA-g[h
]- [*t[h]raAg[h
J-] (>
*t[h]rag[h
]-) “to draw, to drag, to pull”; PK *t[h]r- “to drag”; PD (reduplicated) *tar-tar-
“noise of dragging something along the ground”.
1 13. PN *t[h]ar-/*t[h]sr- “to spread, to spread out, to expand, to extend; to stretch, to stretch
out, to scatter, to strew” > PIE *st[h]er- “to spread, to spread out, to scatter, to strew”; PAA
*t[h]ar-/*t[h]3r- “to stretch out, to extend”; PFU *tara- “to open”; PD *tarr- “to sift, to
winnow”; Altaic: Mongolian tara- “to disperse, to scatter, to be separated, to part”, tarqa-
“to scatter, to spread, to be dispersed”; S tar “to disperse, to scatter”, tar “to loosen, to untie,
to open”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 1 55
114. PN *t[h]ar-/*t[h
]or- “to scratch, to scrape” > PD *tarc- “to scrape”; PA *tari- “to till
(land), to plow; to sow, to harvest”.
115. PN *t[h]ar-/*t[h]sr- “to drink” > PK *t[h]r- “to drink”; PD *tark- “to drink, to swallow”.
116. PN *t’ar-l*tPr- “to tear, to rend, to cut, to sever” > PIE *t’er-/*t’or-l*t’r- “to tear, to
rend, to flay”; PD *tar- “to lop, to chop off, to cut (off), to strip off’; S dar “to split”.
117. PN *t’ar-ap[h]-/*tPr-ap[h]- “to tear, to rend, to cut, to pluck” (extended form of the
preceding) > PIE *t’r-ep[b]-/*t’r-op[h]- “to tear, to rend, to pluck”; Kartvelian: Georgian
t’rp- “to cherish” (< “to enjoy”; semantic development as in Hebrew [hifl] haply “to let
someone enjoy [food]”); PAA *t'ar-ap[h]-l*t Pr-app]-/*t ’ar-opp]-/*t Pr-3pp]- “to tear, to
rend, to cut, to pluck”.
118. PN *t’uly-/*t’oly- “to drip, to fall in drops, to sprinkle, to wet, to moisten” > PIE *t’el-l
*t’ol- “to drip, to fall in drops, to sprinkle, to wet, to moisten”; PAA *t’al-/*tpl- “to bedew,
to wet, to moisten”; PD *tul- “to drip, to fall in drops, to trickle down, to rain, to sprinkle”.
119. PN *t'ay-/*tPy- “to shine, to gleam, to be bright, to glitter, to glow, to bum brightly” >
PIE *t’ey-/*t'oy-/*t’i- “to shine, to be bright”; PD *tl(y)- “to scorch, to bum, to roast; to shine
brightly”; S de “to smelt”, de, de, de-dal “ashes”, de, di5 “glowing embers”, de-dal-la “to
torch”, dis “to flare up, to light up; to be radiant, shining; to sparkle, to shine”.
120. PN *t’aw-/*tPw- (?) “to revere, to honor, to worship” > PIE *t’ew-/*t'ow-/*t’u- “to
revere, to honor, to esteem, to venerate”; Affoasiatic: Egyptian dwiw “praises”, dwi-t “praise,
worship”, dwi “to praise, to worship”.
121. PN *t’uw-/*t’ow- “to give, to put, to place” > PIE ( *t’ow-C
-
>) *to- “to give, to put, to
place”; Affoasiatic: Egyptian d, dw “to give, to put, to place”; (?) PU *toya- “to give, to
bring”.
122. PN *t’ar-ah-l*tPr-ah- stem indicating rapid motion or vigorous activity > PIE *t’erhh-/
*t’orhh-, *t rehh- [*t’rdhh-] (> *t’ra-) “to do, to make”; PAA *t 'ar-ah-l*t Pr-ah-/*t ’ar-Ph-t
*t Pr-Ph- stem indicating rapid motion or vigorous activity.
123. PN *t’al-/*tPl- “to stretch, to extend” > PIE (*t'el-/*t’ol-/*t’J- “to stretch, to extend, to
lengthen”:) *t '1-H-gp]- “long”, *t’l-eE-g[h
J- (> *t’l-e-g[h
]-) “to stretch, to extend, to
lengthen”; PAA *t’al-/*tpl- “to stretch, to extend”; S dalla “to widen, to stretch, to extend,
to enlarge”.
156 8. Common Nostratic Roots
124. PN *t’ary-/*l’3ry- “to grasp, to embrace” > Indo-European: Greek Spaoaopai “to grasp,
to clutch”, Spctypa “as much as one can grasp, a handful”, Spaypti “a handful”, 5paS; “handful,
hand”; Afroasiatic: PSC *dar- “to handle, to make with the hands”; PD *tar- “to clasp, to
embrace”.
125. PN *t’am-l*t’9m- “to quiet, to calm, to pacify, to tame” > PIE *t'om-H-/*t’m-H- “to
tame, to subdue”; Afroasiatic: Arabic tammana “to quiet, to calm, to appease, to pacify, to
allay, to assuage, to soothe”, tamn “quiet, tranquil”, tam 'ana, ta 'mana “to calm, to quiet, to
pacify, to appease, to assuage, to soothe”.
126. PN *t’an-as-/*t’9n-as- “to be tightly loaded, to be closely packed or pressed together” >
PIE *t 'ns- “tightly loaded, closely packed or pressed together, dense”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian
dns “to be loaded heavily”, dns (dns) “weight, load, burden; heavy”, dnsmn “to be heavy,
weighty”, dnsw “weights”.
127. PN *t’um-/*t’om- “to twist, to turn, to wind” > PIE *t’em- “worm”; PAA *t’am-/ *t 'gm-
“to twist, to turn, to wind”; PA *toma- “to twist or spin (thread, rope)”.
128. PN *t’ul-/*t’ol- “to reach, to attain, to strive for, to come to; aim, aspiration, goal, end,
result” > PIE *t’el-/*t'ol- “to reach, to attain, to strive for, to come to”; PAA *t’al-/*t’gl- “to
reach, to attain, to strive for, to come to”; PU *tula- “to reach, to arrive at, to come to”; PD
*tol- “to come to an end; to be over, finished, over”, *tol- “old, ancient”; PA *tul- “to reach,
to attain, to strive for, to come to”, *tul-ga- “a support”.
129. PN *t’aw-/*t’3w- “to hit, to strike” > PIE *t’ew-/*t’ow-/*t’u- “to hit, to strike”; PAA
*t ’aw-/*t 'aw- “to hit, to strike”; S du7 “to butt, to gore”.
130. PN *t ’ah-/* l ah- “to split” > PIE *t’ehh- [ *t’ahh-] (> *t’§-), extended form *t 'ehh-i/y-
[*/ ’atih-i/y-] (> *t’ai-, t’a[y]-) “to cleave, to split, to divide”; PK *t’ex- “to break”; PAA
*t 'ah-/*t oh- “to break, to split, to divide”.
131. PN *t'ak[h]-/*t’3k[h]- “to be fit, appropriate, suitable, proper” > PIE *t’ek[b](s)-/
*t ’okp1
J(s)- “to be fit, appropriate, suitable, proper”; PD *tak- “to be fit, appropriate, suitable,
proper”.
1 32. PN *t ’akp1
]-/*! dkP1
]- “to take, to seize, to grasp, to obtain” > PIE *t ’ek[>1
J-/*t 'ok[h]- “to
take”, (?) *t’ek[h
J-m “ten”; PD *tek- “to take, to receive”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 157
133. PN *t’im-/*t'em- “to make, to fashion, to create, to build” > PIE *t'em-l*t’om- “to
build, to construct”, *t’om-o-, *t’om-u- “house”; S dim “to make, to fashion, to create, to
build”.
134. PN *t’ab-l*t’3b- “to be or become warm; to make warm, to heat up” > PK *t'ab-/*t’b-
“to heat up; to be heated”; PAA *t ’ab-!*t ’ob- “to be or become warm; to make warm, to heat
up”; S tab “to bum, to blaze; fever”.
135. PN *t’aq’-/*t’oq’- “to cover, to protect” > PIE *(s)t’ek’-/*(s)t’ok’- > (with regres-sive
deglottalization) *(s)t[h]ek’-l*(s)t[h]ok’- “to cover”; PK *t’q’aw- “skin, hide”; PAA *t’ak'-
/*t ’ok’- “to cover, to obscure”; (?) PE *taqiy- “to be secretive about something”.
1 36. PN *t ’uk ’-/*/ 'ok “to knock, to beat, to strike, to pound, to trample” > PIE *t ’ek '-/*t 'ok
> (with regressive deglottalization) *t[h]ek’-/*t[h]ok’- “to knock, to beat, to strike”; PK
*t’k’ac[h
]I
- “to hit, to strike”; PAA *t’ak’-/*t’ok’- “to knock, to beat, to strike, to pound”;
PFU *tuk3- ( *tuy3-) “to break, to crush”; PD *tuk- “to tread down, to trample on, to step on;
to beat, to strike, to pound, to mash”; PA *tugi-la- “to strike with the feet, to rear, to buck (of
a horse)”; S dug4-ga “to strike, to beat, to hit, to smite, to kill”; PE *tukoR- “to kick or push
with foot”, *tukkaR- “to trample or kick repeatedly”.
137. PN *t’uq’-/*t’oq’- “to say, to speak, to tell” > PK *t’q’w- “to report, to let know, to
communicate, to inform, to make known”; S dug4 “to say, to speak, to tell”.
138. PN *t’ab-/*t’ob- “to strike, to slay, to kill” > PAA *t’ab-/*t’ob- “to slay, to kill, to
slaughter, to sacrifice”; PU *tappa- “to strike, to hit, to beat, to slay, to kill”; PD *tapp- “to
strike, to beat, to kill”.
139. PN *t ’aw-/*t 'ow- “to leave, to go away; to send forth, to let go, to chase away, to release”
> PIE *t’ow(-A)-/*t’u(-A)- “to leave, to go far away”; PK *t’ew- “to leave, to go away; to
release, to let go”; Afroasiatic: Arabic taha (base twh) “to perish, to die, to go away, to
depart, to lose one’s way, to go astray, to stray, to wander about; to fall, to throw, to cast, to
fling, to hurl, to toss, to carry away, to sweep away”; PD *tav- “to put away, to remove, to
dispel, to chase away, to expel, to exclude”; S du “to go, to leave, to depart, to go away”,
du-ri “long time”, dug “to let go, to let loose, to release, to set free”, duh “to release, to set
free, to loosen, to untie, to release, to open”.
140. PN *dyab-/*dyob- “to beat, to hit, to strike, to harm, to injure” > PIE *d[h]eb[h]-l
*d[h
JobP1
]- “to harm, to injure”; PAA *dyab-l*dyob- “to harm, to injure”.
158 8. Common Nostratic Roots
141 . PN *dyan-w- “a kind of tree” > PIE *d[h]anw/u- “a kind of tree”; PAA *dyan-w- “a kind
of tree”.
142. PN *dyakw
[
h]-l*dy3kw
[
h]- “to blaze, to be bright” > PIE *dyakw
[
h]-l*dyakw
[
h]- > (with
progressive voicing assimilation and depalatalization of initial *dy) *d[h]eg'v
P1
]-/
*d[h]ogw
[
h]- “to blaze, to bum”; PAA *dyak'v
[
h]-/*dyakw
P’
J- “to blaze, to be bright”.
143. PN *dyar-/*dyar- “to hold firmly” > PIE *d[h]er-/*d[h]or-/*d[h
Jr- “to hold firmly in the
hand, to support”; PAA *dyar-/*dyar- “to hold firmly; hand, arm”.
144. PN *dyaw-/*dyaw- “to split, to prick, to pierce, to penetrate”; (extended form in Indo-
European and Kartvelian) *dyaw-ar-/*dy9w-ar-/*dyaw-9r-/*dy9w-3r- “to stab, to pierce, to
penetrate; (n.) any pointed object: spike, prong, etc.” > PIE *d[h]wer-l*d[h]wor-l*d[h]ur-
“to stab, to pierce, to penetrate; (n.) any pointed object: spike, prong, dagger, fork, pole,
etc.”; PK *j;war- “stake”; S du “to bore through”, du7 “to impale”, dus “to split, to destroy, to
demolish, to min”, du8 “to split apart, to separate, to detach; to break off, to pluck”, dus
“split, crack, crevice, fissure”.
145. PN *dyaw-/*dyaw- “to run, to flow, to gush forth” > PIE *d[h]ew-/*d[h]ow- “to run, to
flow”; PK *jw-, *jw-am-/*jw-m- “to void excrement”; PAA *dyaw-/*dyaw- “to run, to
gush”; S du9 “to run; to wander or roam about”, du9-du9 “to run about; to wander or roam
about”, du10-bad-bad “to run very quickly”, duI0-bar “to move quickly”.
146. PN *dyi-/*dye- demonstrative stem > PAA *dya-l*dya- demonstrative stem; PU *tyi-l
*fye- demonstrative stem: “this, that”.
147. PN *ty[h]um-l*ty[h]om- “to strike, to hit, to beat” > PIE *t[h]em-/*t[h]om- “to strike, to
hit, to beat, to stun, to stupefy; to be stunned, stupefied, faint, exhausted, dizzy”; PAA
*ty[h]am-/*ty[h]3m- “to strike, to hit, to beat”; PD *com- “to droop, to fade; to be idle, lazy,
indolent, fatigued”; S sum “to slaughter”.
148. PN *ty[h]awr- “bull, steer” > PIE *t[h]awro- “bull”; PAA *ty[h]awr- “bull, steer”.
149. PN *ty[h]ar-l*ty[h]9r- “to advance toward an end or a goal; to attain or achieve an end or
a goal, to reach, to come to, to arrive at; to master, to become master of’ > PIE *t[h]er-l
*t[h]or-/*t[h
]r-, (extended forms) *t[hJernh-/*t[hJorbh-/*t[hJrhh-, *t[h]rehh-
*t[h]rohh- (> *t[h]ra-l*t[h]rd-) “to advance to or toward an end or a goal, to pass across or
over, to pass through; to attain or achieve an end or a goal, to reach, to come to, to arrive at,
to overcome, to overtake; to master, to become master of, to control”; PAA *ty[h]ar-
8. Common Nostratic Roots 159
/*[y[h
]
3r- “to advance toward an end or a goal; to attain or achieve an end or a goal, to reach,
to come to, to arrive at”; PD *car- “to reach, to approach, to be near to”; S sar “to bring
together”, (reduplicated) sar-sar “to arrange in order, to set or put in order, to organize”.
150. PN *ty[h]iq
'
w-!*ty[h]eq “to swell; (n.) swelling, growth” > PK *c[h]iq’yv- “goiter”; PU
*tyikla “swelling, outgrowth (on the skin), pustule”.
151. PN *t’yar-l*t’y3r- “to be or become stuck, joined, or bound together; to be or become
firmly attached; to be firm, solid, steadfast” > PIE *t’er-w/u-, *t’r-ew-/*t'r-u-, *t'r-ew-H-/
*t’r-u-H- (> *t’r-u-) “to be solid, firm, strong, steadfast”, *t’er-w/u-/*t’or-w/u-, *t’r-ew-/
*t’r-u- “tree, wood”; PAA *t’yar-l*t’y9r- “to be or become stuck, joined, or bound together;
to be or become firmly attached”.
152. PN *t'yar-/*t’y9r- “to be rough, coarse, rigid, stiff, hard” (perhaps identical to the
preceding) > PIE *t’r-s- “rough, coarse”; PU *tyara “hard, rigid, stiff’; PD *car- “rough,
coarse”.
153. PN *t’yul-/*t’yol- “to overshadow, to cover over, to make dark” > PIE *t’el-/*t’ol- “to
cover over, to stretch over”; PAA *t ’yal-l*t ’yal- “to overshadow, to cover over, to make
dark”; S dul “to cover”.
154. PN *t'yaw-/*t’y9w- “bad, evil” > PIE *t’ews-/*t’ows-/*t’us- “bad, evil; (prefix) ill-, un-,
mis-”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian dw “bad, evil”, dw-t “bad thing, wickedness, evil”, dwy “evil”;
Coptic gowt “base, lowly, rejected”.
155. PN *t’yan-/*t’y3n- “to think” > PIE *t'en-s-/*t’on-s-/*t’n-s- “great mental power, wise
decision”; PAA *t 'yan-/*t
’
y3n- “to think”.
156. PN *t’yar-/*t’y9r- “to cut, to split” > PK *c’er-/*c’ar-/*c'r- “to cut”; PAA *t’yar-/*t’y9r-
“to cut, to split”; PFU *tyarke- “to split open, to rend”; PED *car- “to tear, to rend, to split”.
157. PN *t'yur-/*t’yor- “to run, to flow” > PIE (*t’er-/*t’or-/*t’r- >) *t'r-eA- [*t'r-aA- ] (>
*t’ra- ), *t 'r-em-l*t’r-om-/*t r-m-, *t'r-ew-/*t’r-ew-/*t’r-u- “to run, to flow”; PAA *t’yar-/
* t ‘ygr- “to run, to flow”; PU *tyora- “to run, to flow”; PD (*cory- >) *cor- “to run, to flee”.
158. PN *t’yad-/*t’y9d- “to pound, to beat, to strike” > PK *c’ed- “to forge, to hammer”; PD
*cat- “to beat, to strike, to crush”.
159. PN *t’yak[h]-/*t’y9k[h
J- “to cut into small pieces, to chop, to chip” > PIE *t’ak[h
J- “to
cut or tear in shreds”; PK (reduplicated) *c’e-c’k[h
J- “to cut into small pieces”; Afroasiatic;
1 60 8. Common Nostratic Roots
PSC (reduplicated) *t’ya-t’yok- or *t'ya-t‘yokw- (“to cut into small pieces” >) “to decrease, to
become small or narrow”; PD *cakkay “piece, slice, chip”, *cakk- “to chip, to chop, to cut to
pieces”; PY (Sirenikski) *caki(ts)- “to chop or cut into”.
160. PN *t’yar-/*t’yor- (onomatopoeic) “to make a noise” > PIE *t'er-/*t’or-/*t’r- “to make a
noise; to hum, to buzz, to rattle”; PK *c’r- “to make a squeaking noise”; PD (reduplicated)
*cara-cara- onomatopoeic expression of rustling (as of dry leaves); PI *caRaq- “to make a
loud noise”.
161. PN *syil-/*syel- “fat, lard” > PIE *sel-pP’]-/*sol-p[h]-/*sl-p[h
J- “fat, butter”; PU
“fat, lard”.
162. PN *syul-/*syol- “to be safe, well, sound” > PIE *sol- “whole, sound, well, safe”; PAA
*syal-/*syal- “to be safe, well, sound”; PD *col- (“in good health” >) “excellent, fine,
beautiful”.
163. PN *syur-/*syor- “to surge, gush, flow, spring, or spread forth” > PIE *ser-/*sor- “to
move quickly, to run, to flow”, *ser-p[h]-/*sor-p[h]-/*sr-p[h]- “to creep, to crawl”, *sr-ew-/
*sr-ow-/*sr-u- “to flow”; PAA *syar-/*syor- “to surge, gush, flow, spring, or spread forth”;
PD *cor- “to flow, to ooze, to trickle, to leak, to gush”; S sur “to pour out, to flow, to bubble
or boil up, to gush out; to arise from, to spring forth; to spread or stretch out; to rain”.
164. PN *syily-/*syely- “to take (away), to seize, to pull (off)” > PIE *sel-/*sol- “to take, to
seize”; PAA *sral-/*syal- “to take, to seize, to plunder”; PD *cil- “to strip off, to peel off, to
pull (off), to pluck”.
165. PN *nasy-/*nosy- “to breathe, to blow” > PIE *nas- “nose”; PAA *nasy-/*nasy- “to
breathe, to blow”.
1 66. PN *syam-/*sy9m- “to be hot, sunny” > PIE *sem-/*som-/*sm- “summer”; PAA *syam-l
*syam- “to be hot, sunny”.
167. PN *syiny-/*syeny- “to change, to deteriorate, to grow old” > PIE *sen- “old”; PAA
*syan-/*syan- “to change, to deteriorate, to grow old”; PD *cen- “old man, old woman”.
168. PN *syaw-/*syow- “to be dry, arid, withered” > PIE *saw-s-/*su-s- “dry”; PK *sw-er-/
*sw-r- “to dry, to become dry”; Affoasiatic: Egyptian swy “to be dry, arid, hot”, swyw “dry,
arid”, sww “dry, hot”, swi “drought, heat”.
169. PN *syaw-/*sy3w- “to give birth, to be bom” > PIE *sew(H)-/*sow(H)-/*su(H)- “to give
birth”; PK *sw- “to give birth, to be bom”; PD *ce(y)- “son, child, lad, youth”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 161
170. PN *syir-/*syer- “to twist, to turn, to tie, to bind; band, cord, any cord-like object: sinew,
tendon, nerve, vein” > PIE *ser-/*sor-/*sr- “band, cord, string, thread; sinew, tendon, vein”;
PAA *syar-/*syar- “to twist, to turn, to tie, to bind; band, cord, any cord-like object: sinew,
tendon, nerve, vein”; PA *sir- “sinew, tendon”; S ser “to tie, to bind”, ser(-ser) “to tie, to
bind”, ser-ser “chain”, ser-ser-apin “chain”, sir-sir “band, chain”.
171. PN *jaw-/*jaw- “to pass, to pass on, to pass away, to remove” > (?) PIE ^dP’Jw-iH- >)
*d[h
JwT- “to dwindle, to wither, to wane”; PK *j,w-el- “old”, *j,w-en- “to grow old”; PAA
*jaw-/*jaw- “to pass, to pass on, to pass away, to remove”.
172. PN *ja?-/*ja?- “to waste away; to become exhausted, faded, withered, weak, weary,
drowsy” > PIE (*d[h]e?-/*d[h]o?- >) *d[h]e-/*d[h]5- “to waste away; to become exhausted,
faded, withered, weak, weary”; PK (*3?-in- >) *j;
-/n- “to lie down, to go to sleep”; PAA
*
30?
-
1
*
33?- “to waste away; to become exhausted, faded, withered, weak, weary”; PD *ca-
“to die, to fade, to wither, to be exhausted”.
173. PN *
3im-/*3em- “to be sour, bitter, pungent, sharp” > PK *j,m- “salt”,
*
3,m-ar-
“vinegar”; PFU *cem3 “sour; to become sour”.
174. PN *
3ag-/*33g- “to strike, to beat, to drive (away)” > PK *
3,ger- “to beat, to strike”;
PAA *
3ag-/*33g- “to push, to shove, to urge, to drive”; S zag “to drive away, to expel”.
175. PN *
3im-/*3em- “to blow, to play (a wind instrument)” > PIE *d[h]em-l*dP']om-l
*d[h]ip- “to blow, to play (a wind instrument)”; PAA *
3am-/*33m- “to blow, to play (a wind
instrument)”; PD *cem- “to sneeze”.
176. PN *jar-/*jar- “to gush forth, to burst forth, to spurt” > PIE *d[h]er-/*d[h]or-/*d[
h]r-
“to gush forth, to burst forth, to spurt”; PAA *jar-/*jar- “to gush forth, to burst forth, to
spurt”; PD *car- “to flow, to run (off or out), to issue, to drop or ooze out, to drizzle”; S zar
“to run, flow, leak, or spill out; to spring forth, to issue (from), to flow or gush forth; to
bubble over”; PE *caRvaR “current” (cf. Central Alaskan Yupik caRvaq “current, rapidly
flowing stream”, caRvg-, caRvaR- “flow [of current]”).
177. PN *c[h]uk[h]-/*c[h]ok[h]- “to bend, to turn, to wind, to twist; to close, to shut, to cover”
> (?) PIE *t[h
Jok[h]- “to bend, to turn, to wind, to twist”; PAA *c[h]ak[1,
]-/*c[h
]3k[h]- “to
bend, to turn, to wind, to twist; to close, to shut, to cover”; PU *cukka- “to bend, to twist, to
turn, to close, to shut” PE *cukak- “to be tight or to tighten” (cf. Eastern Canadian Inuit
sukak- “to tighten, to stretch; to be tightened, to be stretched; to be wound up [clock]”).
1 62 8. Common Nostratic Roots
178. PN *c/*]al-/*c[h
Jol- “to empty, to leave, to leave behind, to abandon; to set free, to
release, to let go; freedom from, leisure; empty, free (from), unoccupied, at leisure” > (?) PIE
*tfh]el-/*t[h
]ol-!*t[h]I- (extended form in Germanic *t[h
]l-ew-) “to leave, to abandon, to let
go, to depart from”; PK *c,al- “to empty, to get rid of; to have spare time”; PAA *c[h
Jal-/
*c[h
Jol- “to empty, to get rid of’; S sal “to set free, to release, to let loose, to let go; to leave,
to abandon”.
1 79. PN *c ’il-/*c 'el- “to stretch out, to extend, to exceed; to be wealthy, to prosper, to do well”
> PAA *c’al-/*c’3l- “to stretch out, to extend, to exceed; to be wealthy, to prosper, to do
well”; PD *cel- “prosperity”; S zll (“to prosper, to do well” >) “good; to do good, to please”;
PE *cilsy- “to be thick or wide”.
1 80. PN *c ’ar-/*c 'or- “to be or become visible, clear, evident; to reveal, to make known, to
make clear, to clarify” > PIE *t’er-/*t’or-l*t’r- “to be or become visible, clear, evident”,
*t'er-k[h]-l*t’or-k[h
]-l*t’r-kP1
]- “to be or become visible, clear, evident, to see clearly”; PAA
*c 'ar-/*c ’or- “to be or become visible, clear, evident”; PD *carr- “to reveal, to make known,
to make clear, to clarify”.
181. PN *fiac '-l*toc
’-
“to seize, to grasp, to take hold of, to pick, to pluck” > PIE *hhet
[*hhat’-] “crop, grain”; PAA *hac '-l*tioc “to harvest, to reap”; PD *ec- “to pick, to pluck”;
S ha-za “to seize, to grasp, to take hold of’.
1 82. PN *c ’ab-/*c ’ob- “to press, squeeze, stick, tie, bind, or join firmly together” > PK *c ',eb-
“to glue”, *c’,ebo- “glue”; PAA *c ’ab-l*c ’oh- “to press, squeeze, stick, tie, bind, or join
firmly together”.
183. PN *c ’ar-/*c ’or- “to cut, to cut off, to cut through, to cut into” > PK *c ',er- (“to cut into,
to scratch, to carve, to engrave” >) “to write”; PAA *c ’ar-l*c 3r- “to cut, to cut off, to cut
through, to cut into”.
184. PN *sam-/*ssm- “to resemble, to be like” > PIE *sem-/*som-/*sm- “like, same”; PAA
*sam-/*s3m- “to resemble, to be like”.
185. PN *sag-/*s3g- “to reach, to arrive at, to attain, to achieve, to get, to obtain” > PIE
*seg[h]-/*sog[h
J- “to get, to obtain”; PAA *sag-/*s3g- “to reach, to arrive at, to attain, to
achieve, to get, to obtain”; PU *saya- “to reach, to arrive at, to achieve, to get, to obtain”.
1 86. PN *sal-/*s3l- “to spring, to leap, to jump” > PIE *sal-, *sel- “to spring, to leap, to
jump”; Afroasiatic: Semitic: Hebrew salad “to spring, to leap, to bound”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 163
187. PN *san-l*san- “to perceive, to sense” > Indo-European: Latin sentio “to feel, to
experience, to perceive”, sensus “sense, feeling, perception”; PAA *san-/*san- “to smell”.
188. PN *sab-/*sab- “seven” > PIE (*seb[h]-t[h]m > [with voicing assimilation]) *sep[h]-
tpjip “seven”; PAA *sab- “seven”.
1 89. PN *sin-/*sen- “sinew, tendon” > PIE *senHw-, *sneHw- (> *snew-) “sinew, tendon”;
PU *sena/*sona “sinew, tendon”.
190. PN *saw-/*saw- “to drink, to swallow” > PIE *sew(H)-/*sow(H)-/*su(H)- “to drink, to
swallow”, *sw-el- “to swallow”; PK *s,w- “to drink”, *s,w-am-/*sI
w-m- “to drink”; PAA
*saw-/*saw- “to drink, to swallow”.
191. PN *saw-al-/*saw-al- “to wet, to moisten, to flow” (derivative of the preceding) > PIE
*swel-/*sul- “to wet, to moisten, to flow; (n.) liquid, moisture”; PK *s,wel- “wet, moist”,
*Sjwel- “to wet, to moisten”.
192. PN *sar-/*sar- “to split, to rip apart, to tear asunder” > PIE *ser-/*sor-/*sr- “to split, to
rip apart, to tear asunder”, *sor-g[h]- “to wound, to tear”; PK *s,ar-/*s,r- “to destroy”; PAA
*sar-/*sar- “to split, to rip apart, to tear asunder”; PFP *sar3- “to break”.
193. PN *swakp,
]sw-/*swak[h]sw- “six” > PIE (*swek[h]sw- >) *swek[h]s- “six”; PK
( *swek[h]sw- >) *ek[h]s,w- “six”.
194. PN *sa-/*sa- demonstrative pronoun stem: “this, that” > PIE *so-, (f.) *seA [*saA\ (>
*sa) demonstrative stem: “this, that”; PK *sr pronoun stem; PAA *sa-/ *sa- demonstrative
pronoun stem; PFU *sa “he, she, it”.
195. PN *sah-/*sali- “to examine, to consider, to try to find out, to try to understand, to think
about” > PIE *sehh-k’- [*safih-k’-] (>*sak’-) “to examine, to consider, to try to find out, to
try to understand, to think about”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian sh> “to remember, to call to mind, to
think about,” shiw “remembrance, memory”; PA *sa- “to think, to consider, to count”.
196. PN *saw-/*saw- “to sigh, to pant, to gasp, to breathe deeply” > PIE *sew-/*sow-/*su- “to
sigh, to pant, to gasp”; PK *s,w-er- “deep breath, sigh”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian swh “wind,
air, breath”.
197. PN *saw-/*saw- “to sleep, to rest” > PIE *sw-ep[h]-/*sw-op[h]-/*su-p[h]- “to sleep”; PK
*s,w-en- “to rest”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian swh “to spend the night”.
164 8. Common Nostratic Roots
198. PN *sih-/*sefi- “to separate into (equal) parts, to divide” > PIE *sihh- [*sefih-] (> *se-)
“separately, apart”, *sihh-mi- [* sehh-mi-] (> *se-mi-) “half’, *sihh-t[h
J- [ *sehh- t[h
]-\ (>
*se-t[h
]-) “division, section”; PK *s,x-w-a- “other, different”.
199. PN *sig-/*seg- “to swell, to fill up, to overflow, to flow forth” > PAA *sag-/*sog- “to
swell, to fill up, to overflow, to flow forth”; PA *sige- “to urinate”.
200. PN *ti[h]ir-/*ti[h]er- “highest point, highest rank; to be highly esteemed, to be eminent”
> PIE *k[h]er-/*k[h]or-l*k[h]r- “highest point, top, summit, head, peak, horn”; PAA
*ti[h]ar-/*ti[h]or- “highest rank”; PD *cir- “to be eminent, illustrious; to surpass; to be
abundant; pre-eminence, abundance, wealth”; PA *kir- “mountain(-side), edge”.
201. PN *ti[h
]ay-/*tf[h
]9y- “to advance, to proceed, to go on, to move forward, to continue (in
time), to grow old” > PIE *k[h]ey-/*k[h]oy-/*k[h]i- “gray-haired, old”; PAA *tj[h
Jay-1
*ti[h]oy- “to grow old, to age, to turn gray (hair)”; PD *ca(y)- “to proceed, to advance, to go
on, to move forward, to continue (in time), to grow old”.
202. PN *ti[h]im-l*ti[h]em- “to enclose, to wrap, to contain” > PIE *k[h
]em-/*kfh]om- “to
enclose, to contain”; PAA *ti[h]am-l* tipJom- “to wrap, to enclose, to contain”; PD *cim-
“to wrap, to contain, to restrain”.
203. PN *ti[h]unk[h]-/*tj[h]onk[hj- “to hook up, to hang; hanging, dangling; peg, hook” >
PIE *k[h]onk[h
J- “to hook up, to hang; peg, hook”; Affoasiatic: Semitic: Arabic sankala (<
*ti[h
Jank[hJ-al-) “to hook up”, sankal “peg, hook”; PD *cunk- “end of cloth left hanging out,
a dangling tatter”.
204. PN *tip>]iTr-/*tip>]e?r- “hair” > PIE *k[»]iWr- [*k[»]e JRr-] (>*k[*]er-) “hair” (found
only in Germanic); PAA *ti[h]a^r-/*tj[h
JoTr- “hair”.
205. PN *tj[h]iry-/*ti[h]ery- “to grow, to grow up, to thrive, to flourish” > PIE *k[h]er-l
*k[hJor-/*k[h
Jr- “to grow, to grow up, to thrive, to flourish”; PAA *ti[h
]ar-/*tf[h]or- “to
grow, to mature”; PD *cer- “to thrive, to flourish, to grow, to grow well, to prosper, to be
fertile, to increase, to be superabundant”.
206. PN *ti[hJar-1* ti[h
Jor- “to cause harm, to injure, to cause strife; injury, harm, strife” >
PIE *k[h]or-mo- “injury, harm, suffering”; PAA *tf[
h]ar-l*ti[h
Jor- “to cause harm, to injure,
to cause strife”; PD *ceragu “calamity, misfortune”; PA *kere- “to cause strife, contention;
(n.) strife, anger, dispute”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 1 65
207. PN *ti[»]ar-/*tj[hpr- “to bum, to roast” > PIE *k[h]er-l*k[h]or-l*k[h]r- “to bum, to
roast”; PK *xr-ak’- “to roast, to fry, to char”; PAA *ti[h]ar-/*ti[h]ar- “to bum, to roast”;
PFU *syar3- “to dry up; to become dry, parched, or arid”.
208. PN *niti[h]-/*neti[h
J- “to rise, to arise; to lift, to raise; to move” > PIE *nek[h]-l
*nok[h]- “to bear, to carry, to convey”; PAA *nati[hJ-/*noti[h
J- “to rise, to arise; to lift, to
raise; to move”; PD *nik- “to lift up, to raise, to get up from sleep”; PA *negu- “to move
from one place to another, to wander about, to migrate”.
209. PN *ti[h]ary-/*ti[h]ory- “to cut, to cut into” > PK *xarx- “to saw; (n.) saw”; PAA
*tf[
h]ar-/*tj[h]or- “to cut, to slice”; PA *kary- “to scratch, to dig”.
210. PN *ti[h]ary-at ’-!*ti[hpry-at “to cut into, to make incisions” (extended form of the
preceding) > PIE *k[h]ert’- (“to cut into, to make incisions, to carve” >) “craft, trade;
craftsman, artisan”; PAA *ti[h]arat’-l*ti[h]3rat'-l*ti[h]ar3t'-l*ti[h]3r9t'- “to cut, to cut
into, to incise, to make incisions”.
211. PN *ti[h]il-/*ti[h]el- “to see” > PK *xel-/*xil- “to open the eyes, to see”; Afroasiatic:
PHEC *lell- “to appear, to be seen”; PU *syilma “eye”.
212. PN *ti[h]ut’-l*ti[h]ot’- “to cut” > PK *xot’r- “to cut, to clip”; PAA *ti[h]at ’-/*ti[h
Jot
“to cut, to split”.
213. PN *tipi
]ah-l*tip,
]aih- “(young) sheep or goat” > PIE *k[h]ehh-k'- [*kf
h
Jatrh-k ’-] (>
*k[hJak’-) “(young) goat, kid”; PAA *ti[,
']oh -l*tiP']ah
-
“(young) sheep or goat”.
214. PN *bitf[h]-/*beti[h]- “to slit, to split, to prick (tr.); to split apart, to burst open (intr.)” >
Afroasiatic: PS *bati[h]-at'- “to slit”; PFU *pe5a- “to prick”; PD *pik- “to break in pieces;
to burst”.
215. PN *ti’im-/*ti’em- “to join, bind, or unite together” > PIE *k’em-/*k’om- /*km
-
“to join
together, to unite”; PAA *ti’am-/*ti’am- “to join together”; PU *5yima “glue”; S dim “band,
binding; rope, cord, knot”, dim-ma “to tie together, to fasten, to bind”, dim-ma “band, rope,
cord”.
216. PN *ti’ar-as-/*tf’ ar-as- (?) “to bite, to gnaw” > PIE *k'ras- “to bite, to gnaw, to eat”;
PAA *ti 'aras-/*ti '3ras-/*ti 'arss-Cti ’oras- “to bite”.
217. PN *ti’al-/*ti’9l- “to be bent, curved, round” > PIE *k’el-/*k’ol-/*k’l- “bent, curved,
round”; PAA *ti ’al-l*ti 'al- “to be bent, curved, round”.
166 8. Common Nostratic Roots
218. PN *ti'uk[h]-/*ti'ok[h
J- “to push, to shove, to thrust in” > PFU *§yukk3- ( *Syokk3-) “to
put (in), to stick, to thrust (in)”; PD *tuk- “to push, to shove”.
219. PN *gub-/*gob- “highest point, summit, top” > PIE *g[h]eb[h
J- “gable, head, pinnacle”;
PAA *gab-/*gsb- “highest point, pinnacle”; PD *kop- “topmost part”; (?) S gub “to stand, to
erect”.
220. PN *gasy-/*g3sy- “to touch, to feel, to handle” > PIE *gP']es-/*g[h]os- “hand”; PAA
*gasy-/*g3sy- “to touch, to feel, to handle”.
221. PN *gad-1*god- “to force, drive, or press together; to join; to unite; to gather (together);
to collect” > PIE *g[h]ed[i]-/*g[h]od[h
J- “to force, drive, or press together; to join; to unite;
to gather (together); to collect”; PAA *gad-/*god- “to force, drive, or press together; to join;
to unite; to gather (together); to collect”.
222. PN *gar-/*gor- “to take, to take hold of; to take away, to carry off, to remove” > PIE
*g[h
Jer-^gJ*Jor-^gP1
Jr- “to take, to take hold of, to seize; to take away, to carry off, to
remove”; PAA *gar-1*gor- “to take, to take hold of; to take away, to carry off, to remove”;
PD *ker- “to take a handful, to scoop up with the hand, to gather up with the hand”; PA
*gar(a) “hand, arm”.
223. PN *gir-/*ger- “to scratch, to scrape” > PIE *g[h
Jer-Cgp]or-!*g[h
Jr- “to scratch, to
scrape”, *g[h]reb[h]-/*g[h]rob[h]- “to scratch, to scrape”, *g[h]rem-/*g[h]rom- “to scrape”;
PAA *gar-/*gor- “to scratch, to scrape”; PD *kir- “to scratch, to scrape”.
224. PN *gun-/*gon- “to perceive, to notice, to be aware of’ > PK *gn- “to hear, to
understand”; PA *guni- “to think, to grieve”.
225. PN *gary-/*gory- “to swell, to increase, to grow” > PIE *g[h]r-e?-l*g[h]r-o?- (^gpjre-l
*g[h]ro-) “to grow”; PAA *gar-1*gor- “to grow old”; PD *kar- “to swell, to rise, to increase,
to grow thick; (n.) bamboo seedling, bamboo sapling, bamboo shoot; a swelling, excess,
abundance”; PY (Sirenikski) *qOR- “height”; PY *q3RaR- and *q3RataR- “to rise up”,
*qoRUR- “to inflate”.
226. PN *gat ’-/*got “to take (with the hand), to grasp” > PIE *g[h
Jet Jot (with nasal
infix) *g[h
Je-n-t
’-
“to take (with the hand)”; PAA *gat ’-I*got ’-
“to take”; PFU *kate “hand”;
PD *kat- “to seize, to grasp”, *ketka (> *kekka > *khekkha in Kurux and Malto) “hand”, *kay
“hand, arm”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 167
227. PN *gaw-al-/*gaw-al- “to twist, to turn, to bend” > PIE *g[h]wel-/*g[h]wol-/*g[h
Jwl- “to
turn; to twist; to bend; to be or become twisted, curved, crooked, bent”; PK *gwel- “snake”;
PAA *gaw-al-/*gaw-al- “to perform a turning movement”; PU *kula “(tape)worm”.
228. PN *gil-/*gel- “to shine, to glisten” > PIE *g[h]el-/*g[h]ol-/*g[h]l- “to shine, to glisten”;
PAA *gal-/*gal- “to be or become shining, bright, clear, clean; to make shining, bright, clear,
clean”; Uralic: Finnish kiiltdd “to shine, to glisten, to glimmer, to gleam”, kiiltua “glimmer,
glow, glint”, kiilto “luster, gloss, polish”, kiiltava “shiny, glossy, bright”; PA *gil- “to shine,
to beam, to glitter, to glow, to gleam, to flash”; PE *qilay- “sky”; Aleut qila-X “morning”,
qilam “in the morning”, qilayan “tomorrow”.
229. PN *gul-/*gol- “to cut, to cut off, to pluck off, to break off’ > PIE *g[h]el-/*g[h]ol-t
*g[h
]1- “to cut”; PK *gl- “to tear, to rend, to break”; PAA *gal-/*gal- “to cut, to cut off, to
pluck off, to break off’; PD *kol- “razor”.
230. PN *gal-/*gal- “to tow or drag” (> “to plow”) > PIE *g[h]el-/*g[h]ol-/*g[h]l- “to plow”;
PD *kalappa “plow”; PE *kalay- and *kalat- “to tow or drag” (cf. Aleut kalat- “to drag along
the ground”). Note: in The Nostratic Macrofamily (1994:393—394), the meaning of the PN
form is given as “to scratch, to scrape”. However, the PE cognate makes it seem more likely
that the original meaning was “to tow or drag”.
231. PN *gur-/*gor- (?) “gut, cord” > PIE *g[h]or-/*g[h]r- “gut, cord”; Uralic: Hungarian hur
“intestine, string”, hurka “intestine, sausage”; (?) Yurak Samoyed / Nenets hurka “cord, cord
made of reindeer tendons”; (?) Tavgi Samoyed / Nganasan korii “cord”.
232. PN *gud-/*god- “to throw, to toss, to shake” > Kartvelian: Georgian gd-eba “to throw, to
cast, to fling, to toss”; PAA *gad-l*gad- “to throw, to cast”; PD *kut- “to throw, to toss, to
fling, to shake”.
233. PN *gur-/*gor- “to stand out, to jut out, to project” > PIE *g[h]er-/*g[h
]or-/*g[h
Jr-,
*g[h]r-eE-/*g[h]r-oE- (>*g[h
Jre-/*g[1,
Jrd-) “to stand out, to jut out, to project”, *g[h]ers-/
*g[h
]°rs-/*gP'Jrs- “to bristle”; PK *gora- “hill, mound”; (?) PAA *gar-/*gar- “heap, mound,
mountain”.
234. PN *ga?-/*ga?- “to be empty, void, lacking, wanting” > PIE *g[h]e?-/*g[h]o?- (>*g[h]e-
/*g[h]d-), also *g[h]e?-y-l*g[h]o?-y- “to be empty, void, lacking, wanting”; Affoasiatic:
Egyptian glw “to be narrow, constricted; to languish; to lack, to be lacking; to deprive”, g,’w
“lack”, glwt “lack, want”, nglw “without”, ngl “to lack, to want, to be short of’.
235. PN *gur-/*gor- “to rumble, to roar, to growl, to gurgle” > PIE *g[h]ur- “to rumble, to
roar, to growl, to gurgle”; PK *grgwin- “to thunder; (n.) thunder”, *gurgwal- “to thunder, to
168 8. Common Nostratic Roots
rumble, to roar; (n.) thunder”; PAA *gar-/*gor- “to rumble, to roar, to growl, to gurgle”; PD
*kur- an imitative sound: “to bark, to snore, to snarl, to growl”; Altaic: Manchu gur seme
“snarling, growling, talking too much”.
236. PN *guw-ir-/*gow-ir-/*guw-er-l*gow-er- “wild animal, wild beast” > PIE (*guw-er- >)
*g[h]wer- “wild animal, wild beast”; (?) PD *kur- “antelope”; PA ( *gow-ir
-
>) *gdre “wild
animal, wild beast”.
237. PN *gus-/*gos- “to go outside of or forth from; to make to go outside of or forth from, to
drive away, to chase away” > PIE *g[hJos-t[h
Ji- (“outsider” >) “stranger” > “guest”;
Afroasiatic: PSC *gus- “to drive out, to chase away”.
238. PN *guw-/*gow- “to observe, to notice, to watch, to pay attention to, to heed, to be or
become aware of’ > PIE *g[hJow- “to observe, to notice, to watch, to pay attention to, to
heed, to be or become aware of’; PK *gu- “to be accustomed to, to become used to; to train,
to instruct, to teach”.
239. PN *gur-/*gor- “to turn, to twist, to wind, to wrap, to roll” > PK *gor-/*gr- “to roll, to
rotate”; PAA *gar-1*gor- “to roll, to revolve”; PU *kura- “to twist, to turn, to plait, to tie
(together), to twine together, to braid”; PA *gore- “to turn, to twist, to wind, to wrap”; S gur
“to bend (tr.)”, gur “to wind up, to roll up; to turn, to twist”, gur “basket”, gur “ring, circle”,
gur “to bend, to bow (intr.)”, guru “to wriggle, to writhe”, gurum “to bend, to bow (intr.); to
bend (tr.)”.
240. PN *gab-/*gob- “to cook, to roast, to boil, to bum” > PK *gab-/*gb- “to cook, to boil”;
PAA *gab-/*gob- “to cook, to roast, to bum”.
241. PN *k[h]a-/*k[h]o- demonstrative pronoun stem > PIE *k[h]e-/*k[h]o-, *k[h]i-
demonstrative pronoun stem; PK *-k[h
J- pronoun stem; PAA *k[h]a-/*k[h]3- demon-strative
pronoun stem.
242. PN *k[h]ap[h]-/*k[h]op[h
J- “to take, to seize; hand” > PIE *k[h
Jap[h
J- “to take, to seize”;
PAA *k[h]ap[h]-/*k[h]op[h]- “to take, to seize; hand”; PFU *kapp3- “to take, to seize, to
grasp”, *kappa “hand, paw”; PD *kapp- “to touch, to feel”; PA *kap- “to grasp, to seize”.
243. PN *k[h]as-l*k[h]os- “to cut” > PIE *k[*]es-, *kp]as- “to cut”; PAA *k[h]as-/*k[h]os-
“to cut, to cut off, to cut up”.
244. PN *k[hjal-/*k[h
Jol- “to make a noise, to sound” > PIE *k[h]el-, *k[h]al- “to call, to
summon”; PAA *k[h]al-/*k[h]ol- “to call, to summon”; PD *kal-, (reduplicated) *kala-kala
“to make a noise, to sound”; PE *qaloR- “to make a characteristic cry (animals)”, *qalmaR-
“to call to dogs”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 169
245. PN *k[h
Ja!-/*k[h]ol- “to point out, to make clear, to make known, to disclose, to explain”
> PAA *k[h]al-/*k[h]ol- “to point out, to make clear, to make known, to reveal, to disclose,
to explain”; PD *kal- “to learn, to study; to teach”; Altaic: Mongolian kele- “to say, to speak,
to talk”; Chuvash kala- “to speak”.
246. PN *k[h]ar-!*k[h]or- “to cut” > PIE *k[h
Jer-/*k[h
Jor-/*k[h
Jr- “to cut off, to cut down”;
PAA *k[h]ar-/*k[h]or- “to cut”; PA *ker-ti- “to cut into, to carve, to notch”.
247. PN *k[h]ar-t*k[h]sr- “skin, hide; bark, rind” (derivative of the preceding) > PIE *k[h
Jer-I
*k[h]or-/*k[h]r- “skin, hide; bark, rind”; PFU *kere “bark”.
248. PN *k[h]al-/*k[h]ol- “to guard, to watch, to hold (back)” > PIE *k[h]el-/*k[h]ol- “to
guard, to watch, to hold (back)”; PAA *k[h]al-/*k[h]3l- “to guard, to watch, to hold (back)”;
S kal “to hold, to keep, to retain”.
249. PN *k[hJiw-/*k[h
Jew- “stone, rock” > PK *k[h]wa- “stone, rock”; PFU *kiwe “stone”.
250. PN *k[h]aw-/*k[h]9w- “to swell, to expand, to inflate, to grow, to increase” > PIE
*k[h]ew-/*kp,
]ow-/*k[h]u- “to swell, to expand, to inflate, to grow, to increase”; PAA
*k[hjaw-/*k[hj3w- “to swell, to expand, to inflate, to grow, to increase”; PD *ko- “mountain;
above, over, up, on top of’.
251. PN *k[h]uny-l*k[h]ony- “bee, honey” > PIE *k[h]nH-k[h]o- “honey, honey-colored”;
PAA *k[h]an-/*k[h]3n- “bee”; PD *kun- “bee”.
252. PN *k[h]ay- “alone” > PIE *k[h
Jay-, (extended form) *k[h]ay-wo- “alone”; PAA
*k[h]ayw- “alone”; PD *kay- “widow”.
253. PN *k[h]ab-/*k[h]3b- “hoof, hoofed animal” > PIE *k[h]ab-ro- > (with progressive
voicing assimilation) *k[h]ap[h]-ro- “he-goat, buck”, *k[hJab- > (with progressive voicing
assimilation) *k[h
Jip[h
J- “hoof’; PAA *k[h]ab-/*k[h]3b- “hoof, hoofed animal”.
254. PN *k[h]am-l*k[h]3m- “to seize, to grasp, to grip, to clutch” > PIE *k[h]em-t[h]-/
*k[h]om-tp,
]-/*kp,
]m-t[h
J- “to seize, to grasp, to grip, to clutch; hand”; PAA *kp,
]am-/
*k[h]3m- “to seize, to grasp, to grip, to clutch”; PFU *kame(-ne) “hand; palm, flat of the
hand”; PD *kam- “to seize”.
255. PN *k[h]um-/*k[h]om- “to heap up, to pile up, to accumulate” > PAA *kP']am-/*k[h]3m-
“to heap up, to pile up, to accumulate”; PD *kum- “to heap up, to gather, to accumulate; (n.)
heap, crowd, pile, collection”.
170 8. Common Nostratic Roots
256. PN *k[h]am-/*k[h]3m- “to gather together, to collect” > PIE *k[h]em-/*k[h]om-!*k[h]m-
“to gather together”, *k[h]om- “together with”; Afroasiatic: Semitic: Akkadian kamasu “to
gather, to collect, to bring in (barley, persons, animals, objects, or documents)”; PA *kam-
“to accumulate, to collect, to gather together”.
257. PN *k[h]arj-(/*k[l,
j9T)-) (?) “to sing, to sound” > PIE *k[h
Jan- “to sing, to sound”;
Afroasiatic: Egyptian kny “to call”; PU *karja- “to call”; PD *kan- “to sound, to tinkle, to
rattle, to jingle”.
258. PN *k[h]am-/*k[h]3m- “to work, to labor, to toil; to make, to do” > PIE *k[h]niH- “to
work, to toil, to labor”; PK *k[h]am-/*k[h]m- “to make, to do”.
259. PN *k[h]ay-/*k[h]ay- “to put, to place, to set, to lay; to be placed, to lie” > PIE *k[h
Jey-/
*k[h]oy-/*k[h]i- “to lie, to be placed”; PAA *k[h
Jay-/*k[h
]9y- “to put, to place, to set, to lay”;
PFU *kuy3- “to lie”; PD *ke- “to lie, to lie down, to repose, to rest”.
260. PN *k[h
]ul-/*k[h]ol- “to hear” > PIE *k[*]l-ew-/*k[*]l-ow-l*k[h]l-u- “to hear”; PFU
*kule- “to hear”; PD *kel - “to hear, to listen”; PA *kulk- “ear, earwax”.
261. PN *k[hJun-k’-/*k[hJon-k’- “to be bent, curved, crooked; hook” > PIE *k[h]enk'-l
*k[h]onk’- “hook”; PD *konk- “hook, clasp”.
262. PN *k[h]ay-/*k[h
Jay- “heat; to be or become warm or hot; to make warm, to heat” > PIE
*k[h]ay- “heat; to heat”; PU *keya- “to cook, to boil”; PD *ka(y)- “to grow hot, to bum”.
263. PN *k[h]ar-/*k[h]3r- “to twist, to turn, to wind” > PIE *k[h]er-/*k[h]or-/*k[h]r-,
* (s)k[h]er-/* (s)k[h]or-/* (s)k[h]r-, “to twist, to turn, to wind”; PAA *k[h
Jar-/*k[h]9r- “to
twist, to turn, to wind”; PFU *kera- “round; to turn, to twist, to wind”, *kere “any round
thing or object”; PD *kar- “to whirl, to spin, to turn around”.
264. PN *k[h]ar-l*k[h]3r- “edge, side, bank” (probably a derivative of the preceding) > PIE
*k[h]er-/*k[h]or-/*k[h]r- “edge, shore, bank”; Afroasiatic: Semitic: Geez karir, korar, karer,
kerar, kwarir “(round) hill, ravine, rock”; Uralic: Selkup Samoyed kery “edge, brim”; PD
*karay “shore, bank, border, edge”; S kar “embankment, quay-wall, wall along a canal or
moat, mooring-place, harbor”.
265. PN *k[h
]ur-/*kP']or- “blood” > PIE *k[h]r-ew-H-/*kp]r-ow-H-/*kp]r-u-H- (> *kP’]ru-)
“bloody, raw”; PD *kuruti “bloody, red-color”; S gu-ru-un, guruu-un, kurin “blood”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 171
266. PN *k[h]aly-/*k[hply- “to rob, to steal, to hide” > PIE *kp]l-epp]-/*k[*]l-oPp>
]- “to rob,
to steal, to hide”; PD *kal- “to rob, to steal, to deceive”,
267. PN *k[hJad-/*k[h]3d- “to twist, to wind, to wrap, to bend” > PIE *k[h]ad- > (with
progressive voicing assimilation) *k[h
Jat[h
J- “to twist, to bend together, to fasten, to tie”; PK
*k[h]ad-/*k[h]d- (“to be or become bent, twisted, crooked” >) “to be wrong, to be mistaken”;
PAA *k[h]ad-/*k[h]3d- “to cover, to wrap”; PD *kati “protection, shield”, *katikay “bolt,
pin”, *katt- “to tie, to bind, to fasten; to clasp, to yoke; to shut”; PA *ked- “to put on
clothing”; S kdd “to fasten, to tie, to bind”, kad5 “to tie, to fasten”.
268. PN *k[h]ar- “hard, strong, firm” > PIE *k[hJar- “hard, strong, firm”; PAA *k[h]ar-
“hard, dry”; PD *karu “strength, power”.
269. PN *k[h
Jar- “rough, coarse” > PAA *k[h]ar- “rough, coarse”; PD *kar-, *kar- “rough,
harsh, rugged, uneven, unpolished”.
270. PN *k[h]an-/*k[h]an- “to do, make, or prepare in a proper manner; to set straight, to make
right”; PIE *k[h]on- “to do, make, or prepare in an efficient, proper manner”; Kartvelian:
Georgian ken-lkrt- “to do, to make”; PAA *k[hpn-/*k[h]3n- “to do, make, or prepare in a
proper manner; to set straight, to make right; to establish”.
271. PN *kp]ay-(/*k[h
py-) (?) “to scoop out; (n.) spoon, ladle”, (extended form) *k[h]ay-w-
(/ *k[hj3y-w-) (?) “to dig; (n.) cave, pit, hollow” > PIE *k[hJaywr-t[h
J-/*k[hJaywn-t[h
J- “cave,
hollow”; PU *kaya “spoon, ladle, shovel”, PFP *koywa- “to dig”; PD *kay- “ladle, spoon”;
PE *qayuRutaR “ladle”, *qayvaq “ladle”.
272. PN *k[h
JuT)-/*kp,
JoTj- “(n.) fat, fatty part of the body” > PK *k[h]on- “fat, brain”; PD
*kunti “posterior, rump, buttocks”; PA *korj “fat at the thighs, rump”.
273. PN *k[*]atP’]-(/*kP‘pt[h
]-) “to beat, to strike, to fight” > PIE *kp]atp]- “to fight”;
Affoasiatic: Egyptian ktkt “to beat, to strike”; PD *kat- “to be angry with; (n.) anger, wrath”,
*kat- “to kill, to murder; to cut, to divide; to quarrel, to fight”.
274. PN *k[h
Jar-/*kppr- “black, dark” > PIE *kpJer-s-/*kpJr-s- “black, dark”; PD *kar- “to
grow black, to darken, to become dirty; (adj.) black, dark; (n.) blackness, darkness, blot,
stain, spot”; PA *kara “black”.
275. PN *k’an-/*k’3n- “to get, to acquire, to possess, to create” > PIE *k’en-l*k’on-/*k'n- “to
beget”; PAA *k’an-/*k’9n- “to get, to acquire, to possess, to create”; PD *kan- “to bear or
bring forth, to beget, to bear children; (n.) young of various animals, young child”; S gan “to
bear, to bring forth, to give birth to”.
172 8. Common Nostratic Roots
276. PN *k’ar-/*k’or- “to call out, to summon, to cry (out), to shout, to sound” > PIE *k’er-l
*k’or-/*k’r- “to call out to”; PAA *k'ar-/*k'or- “to call to”; PD *kar- “to sound, to roar, to
call”.
277. PN *k’iy-l*k’ey- “to break, to split, to crack, to burst open” > PIE *k’ey-, *k 7- “to crack,
to burst open”; PAA *k'ay-/*k’oy- “to break, to split, to crack, to burst open”; PD *kTl- “to
rend, to tear, to split, to crack, to burst”, *klr- “to slit, to tear, to rend, to cut, to gash, to slice;
(n.) part, piece, split, rift, slice”.
278. PN *k’um-/*k’om- “to pack or press together” > “to take hold of, to grasp, to seize” > PIE
*k’em-/*k’om-/*k’m- “to press together, to seize, to grasp”; PAA *k'am-/*k’9m- “to press
together, to seize, to grasp”; S gum “to take hold of’.
279. PN *k’am-/*k’om- “to weep, to moan, to lament, to groan” > PIE *k’em-/*k’om- “to
weep, to lament, to moan”; PAA *k'am-/*k’9m- “to weep, to moan, to lament, to groan”.
280. PN *k’am-/*k’om- “to chew, to bite, to eat; to cut to pieces, to crush” > PIE *k'em-b[h]-l
*k ’om-b[h]-/*k ’m-b[b]- “to chew (up), to bite, to cut to pieces, to crush”, *k’om-b[h]o-s
“tooth, spike, nail”; PAA *k'am-/*k’9m- “to chew, to bite, to eat; to cut to pieces, to crush”.
281. PN *k’aw-/*k’ow- “to make a round hole in” > PIE *k’ew-/*k ’ow-/*k ’u- (also *k'ewH-l
*k’owH-/*k’uH- [> *k’u-]) “to make a round hole in”; PK *k’w-er-, *k’w-al- “round”; PAA
*k’aw-/*k’ow- “to make a round hole in”; PD *kavi “cave”; (?) PY *qaviR- “to curve”.
282. PN *k’ar-/*k’or- “to cut: to cut into, to make an incision, to engrave, to notch; to cut off,
to sever, to nip off, to clip; to cut in two, to split, to bite” > PIE *k’er-/*k’or-/*k’r- “to cut: to
cut into, to make an incision, to engrave, to notch; to cut off’; PK *k’rt’-wn- “to peck, to
bite”; PAA *k'ar-/*k’or- “to cut: to cut into, to make an incision, to engrave, to notch; to cut
off, to sever, to nip off, to clip; to cut in two, to split, to bite”.
283. PN *k’al-/*k'ol- “to suckle, to nourish, to rear”, (derivative) *k ’al-ow-/*k ’ol-ow- “female
(in-law)” > PIE *k'(o)lowV-, *k'(o)loC- “husband’s sister”, PIE *k'(3)l-ak[h]t[h]- “milk”;
PAA *k’al-/*k’3l- “to suckle, to nourish”; PU *kala(wa) “sister-in-law”; PD *kal- “a female
relative”; Altaic: Uighur kalin “daugher-in-law”; Chuvash kin (< * kalin) “bride; wife of the
younger brother”; Tungus kolii “sister’s husband”.
284. PN *k’iry-/*k’ery- “to decay, to wear out, to wither, to waste away, to become old” > PIE
*k’er(H)-l*k’or(H)-/*k’r(H)- “to decay, to wear out, to wither, to waste away, to become
old”; PD *kir- “old age; aged person, animal or thing; (adj.) old, aged”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 173
285. PN *k’il-/*k'el- “to decrease; to diminish; to become little, small, few”; PAA *k’al-/
*k’ol- “to decrease; to diminish; to be or become little, small, few”; PD *kil- “small, little; a
little, some”.
286. PN *k’ar-/*k’3r- “to gather (together), to collect; to take a handful, to pick, to pluck” >
PIE *k’er-/*k’or-/*k’r- “to gather (together), to collect; to take a handful”; PK *k'er-b-,
*k’r-eb- “to gather, to collect”, *k'r-ep[h]- “to gather, to pick (fruit, flowers)”; Afroasiatic:
PS *k’ar- “to gather, to collect”.
287. PN *k'u\y-t*k'oly- “to be or become cold; to freeze” > PIE *k’el-/*k’ol-/*k’l- “to be or
7 o
become cold; to freeze”; PFP *kilmd ( *kulma) “cold, chilly; frost; to become cold, to freeze”;
PD *kul- “to be cold; (n.) intense cold, coldness”; PA *kuly-, *kdly- “to be or become cold; to
freeze”.
288. PN *k’ab-/*k’ob- “to seize, to take hold of; to seize with the teeth, to bite” > PIE
*k’eb[h]-/*k’ob[h]- “to munch, to chew; jaw”; PK *k’b-in- “to bite”; PAA *k’ab-/*k’ob- “to
seize, to take hold of’; PD *kapp- “to seize with the mouth, to bite”; PA *kebi- “to chew, to
chew the cud, to ruminate”.
289. PN *k’ap[h]-/*k’3p[h
J- “jaw, jawbone” > PIE *k’ep[h
J-l*k’op[b
J- “jaw, mouth”; PK *ni-
k’app]- “lower jaw, chin”; PD *kavul “cheek”.
290. PN *k’ur-/*k’or- “crane” > PIE *k’er-/*k’r- “crane”; PU *korka “crane”; PD *korku
“crane”.
291. PN *k'ak’- “to cackle, to chatter” > PIE *k’ak’- “to cackle, to chatter”; PK *k'ak’a-n- “to
cackle”; PAA *k ’ak “to cackle, to make a noise”; PD *kak- “to laugh”.
292. PN *k’ak’- “partridge” > PK *k’ak’ab- “partridge”; PAA *k’ak'- “partridge”; PD *kak-
“partridge”.
293. PN *k’ar-/*k’or- “to twist, to turn, to bend, to wind; to tie (together), to bind; (adj.)
curved, bent, crooked” > PIE *k’er-/*k’or-/*k’r- “to twist, to turn, to bend, to wind, to tie
(together)”; PK *m-k’erd- “breast”, *k‘ar-/*k’r- “to bind, to tie together”; PFU *kar3- “to
twist or tie (together), to bind, to thread”; PD *karr- “collection, bundle”, *kar- “lump, mass,
knot, clot”; S garadin, karadin, karadins “bundle, sheaf’.
294. PN *k'al-/*k'ol- “to lift, to raise up, to make high, to elevate; lifted up, elevated, high;
highest point, top” > PIE *k’el-/*k'ol-/*k’l- “to lift, to raise up, to make high, to elevate;
highest point, top”; PK *k’lde “rock, cliff’; Kartvelian: Svan k’Sltxi “high”, nak'latxi
“height”; PAA *k ’al-/*k 'ol- “to lift, to raise up, to make high, to elevate; highest point, top”.
1 74 8. Common Nostratic Roots
295. PN *k’any-/*k'ony- “to observe, to perceive” > PIE *k’en-/*k'on-/*k'n-, *k’n-oH- (>
*k'n-o-) “to perceive, to understand, to know”; PAA *k’an-l*k'on- “to observe, to perceive”;
PD *kan- “eye”, *kan- “to see, to observe, to consider”; (?) PE *kapiRci- “to understand”.
296. PN *k’al-/*k’ol- “to move, to tremble, to shake, to agitate, to stir up, to mix” > PAA
*k’al-/*k’ol- “to move, to tremble, to shake, to agitate, to stir up, to mix”; PD *kal- “to stir
up, to mix; to be stirred up, agitated, confused”.
297. PN *k'al-/*k’ol- “to need” > PK *k’al- “to lack, to be short of, to need, to want”; PFU
*kelke- “to be necessary; must, ought to”.
298. PN *k’ap[h]-/*k 'opl
71
]- “nape of the neck, back of the head” > PK *k ’epP
1
]-a “nape of the
neck, back of the head”; PAA *k'ap[h]-l*k’op[h]- “nape of the neck, back of the head”; PI
*kapolRuq or *kapolRuk “neck part of animal”.
299. PN *k’al-/*k’ol- “to bum, to warm, to cook, to roast” > PIE *k’el(H)-/*k’ol(H)-/*k’I(H)-
“to bum, to scorch, to char”; PAA *k’al-/*k’ol- “to bum, to roast”; PD *kal- “to bum, to
scorch, to char, to bake”; Altaic: Mongolian qala- “to be or become warm or hot, to be or
become warmed up or heated up”, qalayun “hot, warm; heat, warmth, fever”.
300. PN *gyil-/*gyel- “to glide, to slip, to slide” > PIE *g[h]l-ey-/*g[h]l-oy-/*g[h]l-i- “to glide,
to slip, to slide”; PAA *gyal-/*gyol- “to glide, to slip, to slide”; PFU *kil3 (*kiil3) “smooth,
slippery”; PI *ciliRak- “to glide”; PY *ciluR- “to slide or glide”.
301. PN *wagy-/*wogy- “to carry, to convey” > PIE *weg[h
J-f*wog[h
J- “to carry, to convey, to
weigh”; PAA *wagy-/*wogy- “to carry”; PFU *wiye- “to bring, to carry, to convey”.
302. PN *hagy-/*hogy- “to be pressed or weighed down; to be oppressed; to be disheartened,
distressed, afflicted, troubled” > PIE *hheg[h
]- [ *fihag[h
]-] “to be weighed down, oppressed,
fearful”; PAA *hagy-l*hogy- “to be pressed or weighed down; to be oppressed; to be
disheartened, distressed, afflicted, troubled”; PD *ag- “to press firmly, to hold firmly; to
tremble, to fear; (n.) affliction, trouble, difficulty”.
303. PN *gyir-/*gyer- “to enclose, to gird” > PIE *g[h]er-/*g[h]or- “to gird, to enclose”; PAA
*gyar-/*gyor- “to enclose, to gird”; PD *ker- “to join together, to tighten, to shut, to close, to
block up, to secure”; Dravidian: Kuwi gru “to fence or surround”; Kui grupa “to surround,
to encircle”; S gir “girdle”.
304. PN *gyab-/*gyob- “to bestow upon, to give” > PIE *g[h]eb[h]-l*g[h]ob[h]- “to give”;
PAA *gyab-/*gyob- “to bestow upon, to give”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 175
305. PN *ky[h]ily-l*ky[h]ely- “to rise, to ascend, to raise up” > PIE *k[h]el-l*k[h]ol-l*k[h]l- “to
lift, to raise, to elevate”; PAA *ky[h]al-/*ky[h]3l- “to lift, to raise, to ascend”; PD *kil- “to
rise, to ascend; to raise up, to make high”.
306. PN *ky[h
Jal-/*ky[h]sl- “to twist, to twine, to wind around, to plait” > PIE *k[h]elH-/
*k[hJolH-/*k[h
JlH-, *k[h]loH- (> *k[h
Jlo-) “to twist, to turn, to plait”, *k[hJelk’-/*k[hJolk’-/
*k[h]Ik’- “to twist, to wind”; PAA *ky[h]al-/*ky[h]9l- “to twist, to twine, to plait”.
307. PN *ky[h]ay-l*ky[h
py- “to move, to move on, to move along, to go, to go away” > PIE
*k[l
’Jey-/*k[h
Joy-/*k[h
Ji-, *k[h]y-ew-/*k[h]y-ow- “to move, to move on, to move along, to go,
to go away”; PAA *ky[h]ay-l*ky[h
]9y- “to move, to move on, to move along, to go, to go
away”.
308. PN *k’yib-/*k’yeb- “point, prong; to point out, to stick out” > PIE *k’eb[hJ-/*k’ob[h
J-
“point, prong, piece”; PAA *k’yab-/*k’y9b- “finger”; PE *civu- “area or part in front”.
309. PN *baw-ak'y-/*b3\v-ak’y- “to flee” > PIE *b[h]ewk’-/*b[h]ewk’-/*b[h]uk’- “to flee”;
Afroasiatic: Semitic: Arabic basa (< *bawac ’-) “to flee”.
310. PN *k’yaly- “bald; head” > PIE *k’al- “bald; head”; PAA *k’yal- “bald; head”; Uralic:
Finnish kalju “bald”; PA *kaly- “blaze on the forehead”.
311. PN *k’yun-/*k’yon- “to bend or fold together, to crack, to split, to divide” > PIE ( *k’en-/
*k’on-/)*k’n- “to bend or fold together, to crack, to split, to divide”; PK *k’on- “to tie or bind
together”; PAA *k’yan-/*k’y3n- “to bend or fold together, to creak, to split, to divide”.
312. PN *gwan-/*gw9n- “to hit, to strike, to slay, to kill, to wound, to harm, to injure” > PIE
*gw
[
h]en-/*gw
[
h]on-/*gw
[
h]n- “to hit, to strike, to slay, to kill, to wound, to hurt”; PAA
*gwan-/*gw3n- “to hit, to strike, to slay, to kill, to wound, to harm, to injure”.
313. PN *gwan-/*gw3n- “to swell, to abound” > PIE *gw
[
h]en-l*gw
[
h]on- “to swell, to
abound”; PAA *gwan-/*gw9n- “to swell, to abound”; PD *kan- “to be heavy, stout, solid,
abundant”.
314. PN *gwar-/*gw9r- “to bum, to be hot; (n.) fire, warmth, heat” > PIE *gw
[
h]er-/*gw
[
h]or-
/*gw
[
h
Jr- “to bum, to be hot”; PAA *gwar-/*gwar- “to bum, to be hot; (n.) fire, warmth,
heat”; Altaic: Manchu guru- “to redden, to become inflamed”.
315. PN *kw
[
h]ul-l*kw
[
h]ol- “to end, to come to an end; to bring to an end, to complete, to
finish” > Indo-European: Greek teXo^ (< *kw
[
h]el-) “the fulfillment or completion of
176 8. Common Nostratic Roots
anything, that is, its consummation, issue, result, end”, teXeco “to complete, to fulfill, to
accomplish”; PAA *kw
[
h]al-/*kw
[
h]3l- “to end, to come to an end; to bring to an end, to
complete, to finish”; PFU *kul3- “to come to an end, to be worn (away), to pass (by)”.
316. PN *kw
[
h]ul-/*kw
[
h]ol- “far off, far away, distant” > PIE *kw[
h]el- “far off, far away,
distant”; PA *kola “far off, far away, distant”; PE *qulo- “area above”, *qulin “upper part”,
*qulvaR- “to rise or raise”, *quldiy- “to be high up”, *quter)iR- “to be or pass over” ; PI
*qulaut3- “to pass over”.
317. PN *k'vP']ul-/*kw
[
h]ol- “to bend, to curve, to turn, to revolve; to move around” > PIE
*kw
[
h]el-/*kw
[
h]ol-/*kw
P1
]l- “to revolve, to turn, to move around”; PAA *kw
[
h]al-/*k"[h]ol-
“to bend, to curve, to turn, to revolve, to move around”; PU *kulka- “to ramble about, to
roam or wander about”; PD *kul- “to bend, to curve”, *kul- “to walk, to run or move about,
to round and round”.
318. PN *kw
P>]ay-/*k'v
[
h
]oy- “to repay in kind, to return an equal measure” > PIE *kw
[
h]ey-/
*kw
[
h]oy-/*kw
[
h]i- “to repay in kind, to return like for like”; PAA *kw
[
h]ay-/*kw
[
h
]9y- “to
repay in kind, to return an equal measure”.
319. PN *kw
[
h
Jalp’-/*kw
[
h
Jalp’- “dog” > PIE *kw
[
h]elp’- “whelp, puppy”; PAA *kw
[
h]alp’-
“dog”.
320. PN * kw
[
h]ay-/*kw
[
h]oy- “to form, to fit, to fashion” > PIE *kw
[
h]ey-/*kw
[
h]oy-/*kw
[
h]i-
“to form, to fashion, to fit”; Affoasiatic: Semitic: Arabic kayyafa “to form, to shape, to
fashion, to mold, to fit, to adjust, to adapt”; PD *key- “to do, to make”; PA *ki- “to do, to
make”.
321. PN *kw
[
h]ar-ay-l*kw
[
h]9r-ay- “to procure” > PIE *k'v
[
h]rey(H)-!*kw
[
h]roy(H)-l
*kw
[
h]ri(H)- (>*kw
[
h]rl-) “to buy, to purchase”; PAA *kw
[
h]aray-/*kw
[
h]3ray-/*kw
[
h]ar9y-/
*kw
[
h]3roy- “to rent, to buy”.
322. PN *kw
[
h]ar-l*kw
[
h]3r- “to scratch, to scrape, to dig” > PIE *kw
P,
]er-/*kw
[
h]or-/*kw
[
h]r-
“to draw, to drag, to plow”; PAA *kw
[
h]ar-l*tv
P’j3r- “to scratch, to scrape, to dig”; PFU
*kur3- (or *kara-) “to dig, to plow”; PD *kar- “to dig, to plow; (n.) plowshare”.
323. PN *kv/
Pl
]ur-l*lcv
[
h
Jor- “body, belly” > PIE *k”[h]er-/*k'-[»]or-/*k"[1
’]r- “body, belly”;
PAA *kw
[
hjar-/*kw
[
hj9r- “body, belly”; PU *kura “body, form, figure”.
324. PN *kw
[
h]i-/*kw
[
h]e- relative pronoun stem, *kw
[
h]a-/*kw
[
h
Ja- interrogative pronoun
stem > PIE *kw
[
h]e-/*kw
[
h]o-, *kwp]i- stem of interrogative and relative pronouns; PAA
*kw
[
h
Ja-/*kw
[
h]9- interrogative stem; PU *ki-, *ke- relative pronoun stem, *ku-, *ko-
8. Common Nostratic Roots 177
interrogative pronoun stem; Altaic: Mongolian (relative and interrogative) ken “who, which”;
Turkish kim “who?, whoever”; PE *ki(na) “who”, *qapa “when”, *qavcit “how many”,
*qaku “when (in future)”; PY (Sirenikski) *qayu(q) “how”; Aleut qana- “which, where”.
325. PN *kw
[
h
Jay “when, as, though, also” (derivative of the preceding) > PIE *hi
'[h
Joy
“when, as, though, also”; PAA *kw
[
h]ay “when, as, though, also”.
326. PN *kw
[
h]a-/*kw
[
h]9- post-positional intensifying and conjoining particle > PIE *-kw
[
h]e
intensifying and conjoining particle: “and, also, moreover, etc.”; PK *k[h]we intensifying and
affirming particle; PU *-ka/*-ka intensifying and conjoining particle; Altaic: Evenki -ka/-
kal-ko intensifying particle.
327. PN *kw
[
h]ar-/*kw
[
h]or- “vessel, pot” > PIE *kw
[
h]er-/*kw
[
h]or- “vessel, pot”;
Affoasiatic: Semitic: Akkadian karpu, karpatu “pot, vase, jug”; Ugaritic krpn “cup, goblet”;
PD *kar- “clay pot with narrow neck”, *kur- “pot, jar”.
328. PN *kw
[
hJur-/*kw
[
h
Jor- “to cut” > PIE *kw
[
h]er-/*kw
[
h]or-/*ti’[
h]r- “to cut”; PAA
*kw
[
h]ar-/*kw
[
h]3r- “to cut (into small pieces)”; PU *kura “knife”; PD *kur- “to cut, to cut
off, to cut up, to cut away, to cut to pieces”, *kur- “section, part, division, portion, share”; PA
*kurca “sharp”; S kurs “to cut, to separate, to divide”.
329. PN *kw
[
h]ur-l*kw
[
h]or- “to cut short, to reduce, to decrease, to diminish, to lessen”
(derivative of the preceding) > Affoasiatic: Semitic: Akkadian karu “to become short (said
of time); to be short, shrunken (said of parts of the body); to be short (said of breath,
temper)”; PD *kur- “to become short, to contract, to shrink; to diminish, to dwindle; to be
reduced, to decrease”; Altaic: Mongolian qoru- “to diminish, to decrease; to become
depleted, to wane, to lessen, to die”.
330. PN *kw
[
h]al- “fish” > PIE *kw
[
h]alo- “large, fish”; Afroasiatic: East Cushitic: Somali
kalluun “fish”; PU *kala “fish”; PD *kalk- “a kind of fish”; Altaic: Khalkha %alim “whale”;
Mongolian qalim “whale”.
331. PN *kw
[
h]ur-l*kw
[
h]or- “to twist or twine together, to tie together, to bind, to fasten” >
PIE *kw
[
h]er-/*kw
[
h]or-/*kw
[
h]r- “to do, to make, to build”; PAA *kw
[
h]ar-/*kw
[
h]or- “to
twist or twine together, to tie together, to bind, to fasten”; PU *kura- “to twist or twine
together, to bind, to fasten”; S kur4 “to tie, to bind”.
332. PN *kw
[
h]ur-!*kw
[
h]or- “worm, grub, maggot, insect” > PIE *kw
[
h]r-mi-, *kw
[
h]r-wi-
“worm”; PD *kur- “insect”; Altaic: Mongolian qoruqai (< *koro-kai) “worms, insects”;
Turkish kurt “worm”; Yakut kurdyaga “insect”.
178 8. Common Nostratic Roots
333. PN *k’wal-/*k’wdl- “to call (out), to cry (out), to shout” > Indo-European: Greek fl/.r|yf|
(Doric pXaxa) (< *k’wl-&- < *k’wl-eA- [*k'wl-aA-]) “a bleating, the wailing of children”; PAA
*k’wal-/*k’w3l- “to call (out), to cry (out), to shout”; PD *kul- “to bark”, *kullu “loud noise,
tumult, hubbub”.
334. PN *k’wiy-/*k'wey- “to fester; to be putrid, foul, purulent” > PIE *k’wey-/*k’woy-/*k’wi-
“to be foul, purulent”; PAA *k’way-/*k'w3y- “to fester; to be putrid, foul, purulent”; PD *kT
“putrid matter, pus”.
335. PN *k’wat’-/*k’w3t’- “to bum, to smolder, to smoke” > PIE (*k’w3t’-/*k’wat'- > [with
regressive deglottalization]) *kw
[
h]et'-/*hv
P]ot’- “to bum, to smoke, to smolder; (n.)
smoke”; PAA *k’wat’-/*k’w3t’- “(n.) smoke; to smoke”; PD *katt- “to kindle, to bum”.
336. PN *k’warb-/*k’w3rb- “the inside, the middle, interior, inward part” > PIE *k’werb[h]-l
*k’worb[h
]-, *k’wreb[h
J- “the inside, the middle, interior, inward part”; PAA *k'warb-/
*k
’
w3rb- “the inside, the middle, interior, inward part”; PD *karp- “fetus, embryo, egg, germ;
uterus, womb; pregnant”.
337. PN *k’war-/*k’w3r- “to rest, to stay, to remain, to wait” > PIE *k’wer-/*k’wor-/*k’wr-
“gentle, mild, calm, at rest, still”; PAA *k’war-/*k’w3r- “to rest, to stay, to remain, to settle
down”.
338. PN *k’walb-/*k’w3lb- “the inside, middle, center, interior” > PIE *k’welb[h]-/*k’wolb[h]-
“womb, pregnant”; PAA *k’walb-/*k'w3lb- “the inside, middle, center, interior”.
339. PN *k’wury-l*k'wory- “to be heavy, solid, bulky” > PIE *k'wer-/*k'wor-/*k’wr- “heavy,
weighty”; PAA *k’war-/*k’w3r- “to be heavy, weighty”; PD *kor- “to grow thick, solid, fat,
stout”; S gur “hefty”, gur4,
gurI3 ,
gurl4 “thick; to be or make thick”.
340. PN *k’wur-/*k'wor- “to be harsh, severe, biting, bitterly cold” > PIE (*k’wer-/*k’wor-f)
*k’wr-\ *k’wr-on-d[h]- “hard to bear, harsh, severe, difficult”; PAA *k'war-/*k’w3r- “to be
severe, fierce, biting, bitterly cold”; PD *kor- “to be cold, to pierce (as cold)”; S gur
“difficult, hard, severe, tough, burdensome, arduous”.
341. PN *k’wat’-/*k’w3t’- “to cut” > PIE ( *k’w3t’-/*k’wat
>
[with regressive deglot-
talization]) *k"[h
Jet ’-/*kw
Pl
Jot “to whet, to sharpen”; PK ( *k’wet’y-/*k’wat’y
-
>) *k’wety-l
*k’waty- “to cut”; PAA *k’wat’-l*k’w3t’- “to cut”; PD *katti “knife”, *katk- “to cut down
(trees), to strike down (man), to slaughter”; PA *kad- “to mow, to cut, to prick”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 179
342. PN *k
’
wud-/*k
'
wod- “to strike, to wound, to hurt, to slay” > PIE *
k
’
wed[h]-/*k
'
wod[h]- “to
strike, to wound, to hurt, to slay”; Kartvelian: Georgian k’vd- “to die”; PD *kutt- “to beat, to
strike, to pound, to bruise, to thump, to cuff’.
343. PN *k’wuty[h]-l*k’woty[h]- “to say, to speak, to call” > PIE *k’u
'etP’J-/*k’"ot[h
J- “to say,
to speak, to call”; PFU *kuty3- “to call, to summon”.
344. PN *k’wad-/*k’w9d- “to form, to fashion, to build” > PK *k’wed- “to build”, *k’wedel-
“wall”; PAA *k’wad-/*k’wod- “to form, to fashion, to build”; PD *kuti “house, hut, abode”.
345. PN *k’wur-l*k’wor- “to crush, to grind” > PIE *k’werAn-/*k’wrAn-, *k'wreAn- [*k’wraAn-'\
( >*k’wran-), *k’wreA\vn- [*k’wraAwn-\ (> *k’wrawn-) “mill, millstone”; PK *k'werc,x- “to
break, to crush (tr.); to crumble, to break (intr.)”; PD *kuravi “grinding pestle”, *kur- “to
pound, to crush”; S gur(-gur) “to rub off, to rub down, to grind”, guru5 “to rub, to grate, to
grind”.
346. PN *k’wu\v-/*k’wow- “bullock, ox, cow” > PIE *k’wo\v- “bullock, ox, cow”; PD *koti
“young bull, young bullock, cow”; S gu4 “ox, bull, cow”, gud “bull, bullock, cow”.
347. PN *k’wan-/*k’w9n- “to suckle, to nurse; to suck” > PIE *k’wen-eA [*k’wen-aA]
(>*k'wem) “woman, wife, female”; PAA *k’wan-/*k’won- “to suckle, to nurse; to suck”; PD
*konk- “woman’s breast”.
348. PN *k’wuy-/*k'woy- “outer covering: skin, hide, leather, bark (of a tree), shell, crust” >
PIE *k'weyH-/*k’wiH- (> *k ,wT-) “skin, hide, leather”; PFU *koya “outer covering: skin,
hide, leather, bark (of a tree), shell, crust”.
349. PN *guI-/*goI- “bend, comer, edge, valley, ravine, gully” > PIE (*g[h'jel-^gpJo!-/
*g[h]!-'.) *g[h]l-ent’o-s “edge, valley”; PK *Gele- “ravine”; PAA *gal-l*gol- “edge, slope,
valley”; PFU *kol3 “hollow, hole; crack fissure, crevice, rift”; PD *kolli “bend, comer,
valley, bay”.
350. PN *Gar-/*G9r- “to cry (out), to yell, to shout” > PIE *g[h]er-/*g[h]or-/*g[h]r- “to cry
(out), to yell, to shout”; PK *Gar-l*Gr- “to cry (out), to yell, to shout”.
351. PN *Gar-1*G3r- “to crash, to grate, to grind; to melt, to dissolve” > PIE *g[h
Jer-/
*gP']°r-t*gP‘]f-
“t0 crash, to grate, to grind”, *g[h]r-en-t’-l*g[h]r-on-t'- “to grind”,
*g[h]r-en-d[h]-/*g[hJr-on-d[h]- “to grind”; PK *GerG- “to grind (grain)”; PAA *gar-1*gor-
“to crash, to grate, to grind”; PD *kar- “to melt, to dissolve”.
180 8. Common Nostratic Roots
352. PN *Gub-/*Gob- “to bend, to twist” > PK *Gob- “to braid, to plait”; PAA *gab-/*gob- “to
bend, to twist”; (?) PE *quvo- “to stoop (e.g., in humiliation)”.
353. PN *q[h]am-/*q[h]om- “to cover, to conceal” > PIE *k[h]em-/*k[h]om- “to cover, to
conceal”; PK *q[h]aml- “goatskin, sheepskin”; PAA *k[h]am-/*k[h]om- “to cover, to hide, to
conceal”; PU *kama “peel, skin”.
354. PN *q[h]al-/*q[h]ol- “to strike, to split, to cut, to wound, to injure” > PIE *k[h]el-,
*k[h
Jal- “to strike, to wound, to injure”; PK *q[h]lec[h
J- “to rend, to tear, to split, to break”;
PAA *k[h]al-/*k[h]3l- “to strike, to wound, to injure”.
355. PN *q[h
Jary-/*q[h]ary- “neck, throat” > Indo-European: Old English hrace, hracu
“throat”; Old High German rahho (*hrahho) “jaws, mouth (of beast); throat, cavity of
mouth”; PK *q[h
Jarqp]a- “pharynx, throat”; PD *karuttu “neck, throat”.
356. PN *q’al-/*q’9l- “neck, throat” > PIE *k’el-/*k’ol-/*k’I- “neck, throat; to swallow”; PK
*q ’eli “neck, throat”.
357. PN *q ’uw-/*q ’ow- “forehead, brow” > PK *q 'ua- “forehead, brow”; PAA *k’aw-/*k’3w-
“forehead, brow”; S gu “head, forehead”.
358. PN *q'aly-t*q’3ly- “sexual organs, genitals, private parts (either male or female)” > PIE
*k’el-t[h]-/*k’j-t[h]- “vulva, womb”; PK *q’le- “penis”; (?) Afroasiatic: Akkadian kallu,
gallu “sexual organ” (this is usually considered to be a loan from Sumerian); Geez ic^alh
“testicle”; PFU *ka/ykk3 “egg, testicle”; S gal4,
gal4la “vulva”, gal4-la-tur “vagina”, gal4la
“sexual organs, genitals”.
359. PN *q’wal-/*q’w3l- “to strike, to hit, to cut, to hurt, to wound, to slay, to kill” > PIE
*k’wel-/*k’wol-/*k’wl- “to strike, to hit, to cut, to hurt, to wound, to slay, to kill”; PK *q ’wal-
“to slay, to kill”; PAA *k’wal-/*k’wol- “to strike, to hit, to cut, to kill, to slaughter”; PU
*kola- “to die”; PED *kol- “to strike, to hit, to cut, to hurt, to wound, to slay, to kill”; S gul
“to destroy”.
360. PN *q
’
wal-/*q
'
w3l- “to throw, to hurl” (probably identical to the preceding) > PIE *k’wel-
/*k’wol-/*k’wl- “to throw, to hurl”; PAA *k’wal-/*k’wol- “to throw, to hurl”.
361. PN *q’wur-/*q’wor- “to swallow; (n.) neck, throat” > PIE *k’wer-/*k’wor-/*k’wr- “to
swallow; (n.) neck, throat”; PK ( *q ’worq >) *q ’orq “throat, gullet”; Afroasiatic: Semitic:
Jibbali kcrd “throat”; Mehri kard “voice, throat”; PFU *kurk3 “neck, throat”; PD *kural
“neck, throat”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 1 8
1
362. PN *q’wal-l*q'w9l- “to swell, to expand” > PIE *k'wel-/*k’wol-/*k’wl- “to swell, to
overflow, to burst forth”; PK *q’wal- “cheese”; PD *kul- “to burst forth, to sprout, to bud”; S
gu-ul “to enlarge, to increase, to make numerous”.
363. PN *q’wur-/*q’wor- “edge, point, tip, peak” > PIE *k’wer-/*k’wor-/*k’wr- “hill, mountain,
peak”; PK *q’ur- “edge”; PAA *k’war-l*k'w3r- “highest point, top, peak, summit, hill,
mountain, horn”; PD *kur- “a mountain tribe; hill country, mountain country”; (?) S kur
“mountain”.
364. PN *q
’
wur-/*q
'
wor- “to make a sound; (n.) sound, noise” > PIE *k’wer-/*k’wor-/*k’wr- “to
make a sound, to call, to call out, to praise”, *
k
’
werd[h]-/* k
'
word[h]-/* k
’
wrd[h]- “to make a
sound; (n.) sound, noise”; PK *q’ur- “ear”, *q’wir- “to cry (out), to shout”; Afroasiatic:
Semitic: Arabic karaza “to praise, to commend, to laud, to extol, to acclaim”; PD *kur- “to
speak, to assert, to cry out, to cry aloud, to acclaim”, (?) *kur- “earring, ear”.
365. PN * Tag-/* Tog- “young of an animal” > PIE *Trieg[h
J- [*^Rag[h
]-] “with young (of
animals)”; PAA * Tag-/* Tog- “young of an animal”.
366. PN *Tat[h]-/*Tot[h]- “to move, to proceed, to advance (in years)” > PIE *TRet[h]-
[
*Triat[h
J-] “to move, to proceed, to advance (in years)”; PAA *Tat[h]-/*Tot[h]- “to move, to
proceed, to advance (in years)”.
367. PN *Tal-/*Tol- “to be high, exalted; to rise high; to ascend; on, upon, on top of, over,
above, beyond” > PIE *TRel- [* Trial-]/* Triol- “over, above, beyond”; PAA *Tal-/*Tol- “to be
high, exalted; to rise high; to ascend; on, upon, on top of, over, above, beyond”; PU *ala- “to
lift, to raise”; Altaic: Mongolian ala “flat-topped hill”; Manchu ala “a hill with a level top”,
alin “mountain”.
368. PN *Taw-/*Tow- “to sleep” > PIE *Tfiew- [*Triaw-\ “to spend the night, to sleep”;
Afroasiatic: Egyptian ‘wn “to sleep, to slumber”.
369. PN *Tan-ah-/*Ton-ah- “to breathe, to respire, to live” > PIE *TRerihh- [*TJjarihh-] “to
breathe, to respire, to live”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian ‘nh “to live; life, living persons”, ‘nhy,
‘nhw “a living being”; PE *anOR- “to breathe out”.
370. PN *Tuw-/*Tow- “flock or herd of small animals; sheep and goats” > PIE *Triowi-
“sheep”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian 'wt “sheep and goats, animals, flocks, herds”; PFU *u-tye
(< *uwi-fy[e]) “sheep”; S us “ewe”.
182 8. Common Nostratic Roots
372. PN * Tan-!* Tan- “to turn, to return, to turn around, to turn back" > PIE * TBen- [* TRan-]
(*TGen-yo-s [*TGan-yo-s], *TRen-t[h]ero-s [*TJ)an-t[
h
]ero-s]) “on the other hand, on the
contrary”; PAA *Tan-/*T3n- “to turn, to return, to turn around, to turn back”.
373. PN * fir-/* Ter- “to descend, to set (sun), to become dark” > PIE *Tfiir-b[h]- [* Tfier-b[h
]-]
(later, analogical, *(H)or-b[h
J-) “dark, dark-colored; darkness, night”; PAA *Tar-ab-/
*T3r-ab-/*Tar-3b-/*T3r-3b- “to descend, to set (sun), to become dark”; PD *ir- “to descend,
to bend or bow down”.
374. PN *Tigy-/*Tegy- “to get out or away from, to separate or part from” > PIE *Tfiig[h]-s
[* Tfjeg[h
J-s] “out of, forth from”; PAA *Tagy-/* Togy- “to get out or away from, to leave”;
PD *ik- “to leave behind, to go away from, to separate oneself from others”.
375. PN *Tub-/*Tob- “bosom, breast” > PK *ub-e-/a- “bosom, breasts”; PAA *Tab-/*Tob-
“breast”; S ubur “(wife’s) breast”.
376. PN *Tal-l*Tsl- “to make a fire, to light, to ignite, to kindle, to bum” > PIE *TRel-
[*TRal-] “to bum”; PAA *Tal-/*Tol- “to make a fire, to light, to ignite, to kindle, to bum”.
377. PN *Tab-/*Tsb- “to be or become dry” > PK *abed- (“dry matter” >) “tinder, kindling”;
PAA * Tab-/* Tab- “to be or become dry”.
378. PN *Tab-/*Tsb- “to grasp, to seize, to take hold of, to hold tightly” > PAA * Tab-1* Tob-
“to grasp, to seize, to take hold of, to hold tightly”; PD *app- “to embrace”; PA *ab- “to
take, to seize, to grasp, to take or get hold of’.
379. PN *tian-ag-l*tt3n-ag- “to press or squeeze together, to make narrow or constricted, to
strangle; (adj.) narrow, constricted; (n.) throat” > PIE *hheng[h]- [ *fihang[h
]-] “to be
narrow, to choke, to strangle; (adj.) narrow, constricted”; PAA *hanag-l*h3nag-l*han3g-l
*fian3g- “to be narrow, constricted; (n.) throat”; PFU *ar)ke “painfully constricted”; PD
*anank- “to suffer, to be distressed, to be slain, to afflict; (n.) pain, affliction”, *ahk-
“palate”.
380. PN *haly-/*h3ly- “to grow, to be strong” > PIE *hhel- [*fihal-] “to grow, to be strong”;
PAA *tial-l*ti3l- “to grow, to be strong”; PD *al- “strength, power, ability, force, firmness”.
381. PN *has-l*1i3s- “to bum, to be hot” > PIE *hhes- [ *hhas-] “to bum, to be hot”;
Afroasiatic: Egyptian hshs “to bum, to be hot; fire, flame”, hss “heat, flame, fire”; PFU
*as3- “to heat, to ignite”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 1 83
382. PN *haw-/*how- “to sprinkle, to spray, to rain” > PIE *hhew-r- [*hhaw-r-]/*hhu-r-,
*hhw-er-/*hhw-or- “to sprinkle, to spray, to rain; (n.) water, moisture”, *hhw-ers-/
*hhw-ors- “to rain”, *hhew-on(t[h
])- [
*fihaw-on(t[
h
])-] ,
*hhew-n(t[h
])- [*hhaw-n(tP,
J)-]
“spring, well” (also used as the base of river names); Afroasiatic: Egyptian hwi “to surge up,
to overflow, to rain”, hwyt “rain”; PD *var- “flood, torrent, inundation”.
383. PN *har-l*tior- “to prepare, to make ready” > PIE *fiher- [*hhar-]/*hhr- “to prepare, to
make ready, to attend to”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian hr “to prepare, to make ready”.
384. PN *har-ak[h]-l*lior-ak[h]- “to move, to set in motion” > PIE *hherk[h]w/u-
[*hhark[h]w/u-] “arrow, bow”; PAA *tiar-ak[h]-l*ti3r-ak[h]-l*tiar-3k[h]-l*h3r-3k[h]- “to
move, to set in motion”.
385. PN *ham-/*hom- “to be sharp, sour, acid” > PIE *hhem- [*hham-]/*fthom- “sharp, sour,
acid”; PAA *ham-/*h3m- “to be sharp, sour, acid”.
386. PN *han-t*h3n- “to show favor; to be gracious, affectionate, tender” > PIE *hhen-s-
[*hhan-s-] “to be gracious, to show favor”; PAA *han-/*hon- “to show favor, to be
gracious”.
387. PN *har-t*ti3r- “to be superior, to be higher in status or rank, to be above or over” > PIE
*hher-yo- [*hhar-yo-\ “a superior, a person higher in status or rank”; PAA *har-/*hor- “to
be superior, to be higher in status or rank, to be above or over”. <
388. PN *hag-/*h3g- “to cover over, to hide, to conceal, to obscure, to overshadow; (n.) mist,
darkness, cloudy weather; (adj.) misty, dark, cloudy” > PIE {*hheg[h
]- \*hhag[h
]~] “to
cover, to hide, to conceal, to obscure”:) *hheg[h]-lu- [*hhag[h]-lu-] “mist, darkness, cloudy
weather”; PAA *hag-/*h3g- “to cover over, to hide, to conceal, to obscure, to overshadow”.
389. PN *har-/*hor- “then, therefore, with, and” > PIE *hher- [*hhar-]!*hhr- “then,
therefore, and”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian hr “for, because, with, and, therefore, moreover”.
390. PN *huy-at ’-/*hoy-at “to swell, to be fat” > PIE *hhoyt “to swell”; PAA *Tiayat'-l
*hayat ’-/*hayot '-/*hoyot “to swell, to be fat”.
391. PN *hap[h
J-^hopP1
]- “to gather or collect (with the hands or arms)” > PIE *hhep[h]-
[*hhap[hJ-]/*hhop[h]- “to gather, to collect; to gather wealth”; PAA *ftap[h]-/*ft3p[h]- “to
gather or collect (with the hands or arms)”.
1 84 8. Common Nostratic Roots
392. PN *hap[h]-l*hop[h]- “to go, to move along, to flow” > PIE *hhep[h
J- [*hhap[h
J~]
“water, stream”; Affoasiatic: Egyptian hpi “to go, to travel, to march, to sail (of a boat), to
fly away (of birds), to flow (of water)”, hpi “flowing”.
393. PN *haw-/*how- “to shine” > PIE *hhew-s- [*hhaw-s-], *hhw-es-/*hhu-s- “to shine”,
*hhew-k’- [*hhaw-k ’-] “to shine”; PAA *ftaw-/*fiow- “to shine”.
394. PN *haw-/*how- “to weave, to braid, to plait” > PIE *fihew- [*fihaw-] “to plait, to
weave”, *fihw-ifih- [*fthw-efth-] (> *Hwe-) “to weave, to braid, to plait”, *hhw-eb[h]-l
*hhw-ob[i,
J-/*hhu-bP’]- “to weave”, *hhw-ey-/*hhw-oy-/*hhw-i- “to weave, to braid, to
plait”; PAA *haw-!*how- “to weave, to braid, to plait”.
395. PN *han-l*hon- “to bend, to curve, to twist” > PIE *frhen-k[h]- [
*hhcm-k[h
]-] “to bend,
to curve”, *hhen-k’- [*hhan-k '-] “to bend, to curve”; PAA *han-/*fton- “to bend, to curve, to
twist”.
396. PN *hak '-/*hok “field” > PIE *fihek’-ro- [*hhak'-ro-\ “field”; PAA *hak’-/*hok’-
“field”.
397. PN *hak’-/*ll3k’- “to direct, to guide, to command” > PIE *hhek’- [*hhak ’-] “to direct,
to guide, to command”; PAA *hak’-/*l)9k’- “to direct, to guide, to command”.
398. PN *huk[h]-/*hok[h]- “to cut, to whet, to sharpen, to scrape” > PIE *irbuk[h]-
[*hhok[h
]-] (> *ok[b
J-), (reduced-grade) *hhok[hj- (> *ak[h
]-) “sharp, pointed; edge, point”;
PAA *hakpi
]-/*hokp>]- “to cut, to whet, to sharpen, to scrape”; PA *oki “tip, top; highest;
arrow”.
399. PN *Jjaw-/*how- “to swell, to increase” > PIE *hhew-k [*hbaw-k ’-]!*hhu-k *fihw-
ek’(s)-/*fihw-ok’(s)- “to grow, to increase”; PK *xwaw- “great number, many”.
400. PN *fiar-/*hor- “to scratch, to scrape” (> “to plow”) > PIE *hher- [*fthar-] “to plow”;
PAA *har-/*hor- “to scratch, to scrape, to plow”; PD *ar- “a plow”; S har(-har) “to scratch,
to scrape”.
401. PN *hak '-l*hok'- “to cut into” > PIE *fihek’-w(e)siH [ *hhak’-w(e)siH] “ax”; PAA
*hak’-/*hok “to cut into”.
402. PN *liar-ak’-l*tior-ak'- “to tear, to rend, to break apart” > PIE *hherk [*hhark ’-]/
*fihork'-/*fihrk’- “to tear, to rend, to break apart”; PAA *harak ’-l*horak '-l*harok ’-/
Norsk’- “to tear, to rend, to break apart”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 1 85
403. PN *har-ak’y-/*ti3r-ak’y- “to glisten” > PIE *fiherk [*hhark ’-]/*fihrk “to glisten”;
PAA *harak'y-l*h3rak‘y-l*tiarok’y-l*ti3r3k’y- “to glisten”.
404. PN *hal-/*hal- “to wear down, to wear out, to weaken; to be worn out, worn down,
weakened” > PIE *fihel- [*fihal-\ “to wear down, to grind”; PAA *fial-l*ti3l- “to wear down,
to wear out, to weaken; to be worn out, worn down, weakened”; PD *al- “to be worn out; be
become weary, to be tired; to suffer, to be in distress”, *al-i- “to dissolve, to decay”, *alk- “to
become small, to wane, to shrink, to lessen”; PA *eli- “to wear out”; S ha-lam “to destroy, to
demolish, to wreck, to ruin; (n.) ruin, destruction”.
405. PN *fiat '-l*ftot “to scratch, to scrape, to cut into, to hollow out” > PIE *hhet [ *hhat '-]
“to cut into, to etch”; Kartvelian: Svan xt ur- “to cut into pieces, to slice, to carve”; PAA
*hat ’-l*t>3t “to scratch, to scrape, to cut into, to hollow out”.
406. PN *hur-/*tior- “falcon, hawk” > PIE *hhor-/*hhr- “eagle”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian hr,
hrw “the god Horus (one of the two brother hawk-gods)”; PD *eruway “eagle, kite”; S
hu-ri-in “eagle”.
407. PN *h in-ak[h]-!*h en-ak[h]- “to reach, to come to, to arrive at” > PIE *fihink[h]-/
*hhnk[h]- > *fjhenk[h]-/*hhnk[h]- “to reach, to come to, to arrive at; to offer, to present”;
PAA *hanak[h]-/*ti3nak[h]-l*tian3k[h]-l*ti3n3k[h]- “to reach, to come to, to arrive at, to
gain; to offer, to present”; PED *inc- “to receive”.
408. PN *mih-/*meh- “to measure, to mark off” > PIE *mihh- [*mehh-] (> *me-) “to measure,
to mark off’; Afroasiatic: Egyptian mh “cubit, forearm”.
409. PN *hiw-/*]iew- “to lack, to stand in need, to be in want” > PIE *fihiw- [*frhew-] /*fihu-,
*fihw-eA- [*hhw-aA-] (> *Hw-a-) “to lack, to stand in need, to be in want”; PAA *l)aw-/
*J)3w- “to lack, to stand in need, to be in want”.
410. PN *Jial-/*Ji3l- “to be separated or apart from; to set apart, to remove, to empty” > PK
*xole- (“separated from, apart, by oneself’ >) “alone, sole (adj.); only, merely, solely (adv.)”;
PAA *hal-/*tl3l- “to be separated or apart from; to set apart, to remove, to empty”; PE *ali
“far away”, *aliya- “to be lonely”.
411. PN *hal-/*h3l- “to divide, to allot, to apportion, to enumerate, to count” (probably
identical to the preceding) > PAA *tial-l*ti3l- “to divide, to allot, to apportion, to enumerate,
to count”; Dravidian: Tamil alaku “number, calculation, cowries (as signs of number in
reckoning)”; (?) Kodagu alu “cowry”; PD *af- “to measure, to limit; (n.) measure, extent,
1 86 8. Common Nostratic Roots
size, number”; S hal “to separate, to divide; to deal out, to distribute”, ha-la “portion, share”,
hal(-hal) “to apportion, to allot, to deal out, to distribute”.
412. PN *hul-/*J)ol- “to destroy, to lay waste, to cause to perish” > PIE *hhul- > *fthol- “to
smite, to destroy”; PD *ul- “to become diminished, to be devoid of, to die, to terminate, to
perish, to be ruined, to ruin; (n.) end, ruin, death”; S hul “to destroy”.
413. PN *harj-/*h3T)- “to lift, to raise, to rise, to go upward, to ascend; that which is most
prominent, visible, or noticeable; on top of, over, above” > PAA *han- “over, above, on (top
of)”; PU *agta “horn”; PD *an- “to rise, to move upwards; (n.) upper part, height;
superiority, excellence, greatness”, *an- “excellence, superiority”; PA *dge “that which is
most prominent, visible, or noticeable”; (?) PE *ago- “to be big”.
414. PN *frar)-t[h]-l*h3T)-t[h]- “the most prominent or foremost (person or thing), front, front
part” (extended form of the preceding) > PIE *hhent[h
J-s [
*hhant[h]-s]
“front, front part”,
*hhentP']-i [*hhant[h]-i] “in front of, before”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian hnt “face, front part; in
front of’, hnt “to ascend, to rise (the Nile)”, (adv.) hntw “before, earlier”, hnt,
hnty “nose,
face”, hnty “who or which is in front of (of place), who is at the head of, foremost, pre-
eminent in, principal (of degree), protruding (of shape)”.
415. PN *hasy-/*hosy- “a tree and its fruit” > PIE *hhes- [*hhas-]/*hhos- originally “a tree
and its fruit” (as in Hittite), but later specialized in the post-Anatolian Indo-European
daughter languages; Uralic (loans from Indo-European): Mordvin (Erza) ukso “ash, elm”;
Cheremis / Mari osko “poplar”; S hashur “apple, apple-tree”, hashur-a-ab-ba “a kind of
apple-tree”, hashur-ar-man-nu, hashur-kur-ra “apricot, apricot-tree”, hashur-babbar “a fruit-
tree and its fruit”, hashur-kur-ra “pear-tree”, hashur-nis-DA, hashur-gis-DA “pear”, hashur-
kur-ra “quince”.
416. PN *haw- “a relative on the mother’s side” > PIE *hhewhho-s [*hhawhho-s] “maternal
grandfather, maternal uncle”; PD *awway “mother, mother’s sister or female parallel cousin,
grandmother, old woman, elder brother’s wife”.
417. PN *?ak[h](k[h])-/*?ok[h
Jfkp])- “older relative (male or female)” > PIE *?ak[b]k[h]-
“mother”; PAA *?ak[h]k[h]- “(grand)mother”; PD *akka “elder sister”; PA *eke “older
female relative”; PE *a(a)kaR “older female relative”.
418. PN *?at’-l*?3t’- “to chew, to bite, to eat, to consume” > PIE *?et '-/*?ot '-
“to eat”;
Afroasiatic: PS *?at’-am- “to bite into”; Altaic: Mongolian ide- “to eat, to feed on, to gnaw,
to eat up, to devour, to consume”; Buriat ed’e- “to eat”; Dagur ide- “to eat”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 187
419. PN *?ar-/*?or- “earth” > PIE *?er- “earth, ground”; PAA *?ar-/*?gr- “earth, land”; PD
*ere “clay, soil”.
420. PN *?ak[h]-/*?ok[h
J- “to eat” > Indo-European: Sanskrit asniti “to eat”; PAA *?ak[h]-l
*?3k[h]- “to eat”.
421. PN *?as-/*?9s- “to gather, to collect” > PIE *?es-/*?os- “harvest-time”; PAA *?as-/
*?9s- “to gather, to collect”.
422. PN *ma?-/*m3?- “to increase (in numbers), to be many, to be abundant” > PIE *me?-/
*mo?- (> *me-/*mo-) “more, abundant, considerable”; PAA *ma?-t*mo?- “to increase (in
numbers), to be many, to be abundant”; S me “abundant, plenty”.
423. PN *?an-/*?9n- “to load up and go, to send off’ > PIE *?en-os-/*?on-os- “load, burden”;
PD *an- “to load up and go, to send off’.
424. PN *?any-/*?gny- “to draw near to, to approach, to come (close to)” > Indo-European:
Greek evoq “year”; PAA *?an-/*?on- “to draw near to, to approach, to come (close to), to
arrive”; PD *an- “to approach, to come near to, to come close to”.
425. PN *?any-/*?9ny- “to, towards, over, for, against, upon, on” (derivative of the preceding)
> PIE *?an- “to, towards, over, for, against, upon, on”; Afroasiatic: Semitic: Akkadian ana
“to towards, over, for, against, upon, on”; S en “as far as, (up) to, with, together with, in
addition to, besides, including”, en(-na), en-sa “as far as, (up) to”, en-na “to, towards, near,
in addition to, besides, moreover”.
426. PN *?im-/*?em- “to seize, to grasp, to take” > PIE *?em-/*?m- “to take, to obtain”; PAA
*?am-/*?9m- “to seize, to grasp, to take”.
427. PN *?aw-ar-/*?gw-ar- “man, male, male animal” > PIE *?wers-/*?wrs- “male”; PK
*werjr “ram”; Afroasiatic: PEC *?awr- “male animal”; PFU *ur3 “male, man”.
428. PN *
?ar-ag-/*?9r-ag- “to climb on, to mount; to rise, to be lifted up; to lift up, to raise” >
PIE *?erg[h]-l*?org[h]-/*?rg[h]- “to climb on, to mount; to rise, to become puffed up”,
*?org[h]i- “testicle” (< “puffed up, swollen”)”; PAA * ?arag-/*?3rag-/*?ar3g-/*?9r3g- “to
climb on, to mount; to rise, to ascend”; PD *ark- “to climb, to mount an animal, to rise, to get
puffed up”; Altaic: Mongolian ergti-, orgii- “to lift up, to raise”; Buriat (Alar dialect) i)rgu-,
(Khori dialect) uirge- “to lift”.
1 88 8. Common Nostratic Roots
429. PN *?ar-/*?or- “associated or related person or thing; associate, companion, friend;
kinsman; associated, related” > PIE *?er-/*?or-/*?r- “associated, related”; PAA *?ar-/*?or-
“associated or related person or thing; associate, companion, friend; kinsman”.
430. PN *?ai[h](tp,
])-/*?9t[h
JOP1
])- “father” > PIE *?at[h](t[h
])- “father”; Afroasiatic:
Egyptian it “father”; PED *atta “father”; PA *etike(y) “older male relative”; PE *ata
“father”.
431. PN *?uI-/*?ol- demonstrative pronoun stem > PIE *?ol- demonstrative pronoun stem;
PAA ?al-t*?al- demonstrative pronoun stem.
432. PN *?in-/*?en- “in, into, to, towards, besides, moreover” > PIE *?en- “in, into, among,
on”; PAA *?on- “in, on, from, by”.
433. PN *?a-/*?o- 1st singular pronoun stem > PIE *?e- (+ *k'-/*g[h]-/*k[h]-) 1st singular
personal pronoun stem; PAA *?a-/*?9- 1st singular pronoun stem; S a-aj “I”.
434. PN *?asy-/*?osy- “to put, to place, to set; to sit, to be seated” > PIE *?es-/*?os- “to put,
to place, to set; to sit, to be seated”; PAA *?asy-/*?osy- “to put, to place, to set; to sit, to be
seated”; PU *assa- “to place, to put, to set”; S as-te “seat, stool, throne”, as-ti “seat, throne”,
es-de, es-ki “throne”.
435. PN *?ap[b]-l*?gp[h]- “and, also, and also” > PIE *?ep[h]il*?op[h]i “and, also, and also,
besides, moreover”; PAA *?ap[h]-!*?op[h]- “and, also, and also”.
436. PN *?ady-/*?ody- “to be pointed, to be sharp” > PIE *?ed[h]-/*?od[h]- “pointed, sharp”;
PAA *?ady-/*?ody- “to be pointed, to be sharp”; PD *ac- “thorn”.
437. PN *?ar-/*?or- used as the base for the designation of various animals > PIE *?er-l*?or-l
*?r- used as the base for the designation of various domestic homed animals; PK
*arc[1,
]kp,
]w- used as the base for the designation of various animals; PAA *?ar-/*?or- used
as the base for the designation of various animals; PD *er- “bull, bullock, ox, buffalo”.
438. PN *?ap[h]-/*?op[h]- “to bum, to be hot, to cook, to boil, to bake” > PIE *?ep[h]-l
*?op[h]- “to cook”; PAA *?af-/*?of- (?) “to bum, to be hot”.
439. PN *?am(m)-/*? om(m)- “mother” > PIE *?am(m)- “mother”; PAA *?am(m)-/*?om(m)-
“mother”; PU *emd “mother”; PED *amma “mother”; Altaic: Classical Mongolian erne
“woman, wife”; S ama “mother”; PY *oma “grandmother”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 189
440. PN *?ab- “father” > PIE *?ab[h
J- “father, forefather, man”; PAA *?ab- “father,
forefather, ancestor”; PD *ap(p)- “father”; PA *aba-ka “paternal uncle” (< *aba “father”); S
a-ba, ab, ab-ba “father”; PE *ap(p)a “grandfather”.
441. PN *?ab-/*?3b- “to be strong, mighty” > PIE *?ab[h]-ro- “strong, powerful, mighty”;
PAA *?ab-l*?3b- “to be strong, mighty”; PA *abga “strength, power”.
442. PN *?ay-/*?3y- “to come, to go” > PIE *?ey-/*?oy-/*?i- “to go”, *?y-eh- [*?y-ah-\ “to
go, to proceed”; PAA *?ay-/*?3y- “to come, to go”; PD *iy- “to move, to stir, to go”, *eyt-
“to approach, to reach, to obtain, to arrive at”; PA *7- “to come”; S e “to go out, to come out,
to leave, to bring out”, e “to get away from, to flee, to run away”, en “to ride, to travel”.
443. PN *?i/*?e (adverbial particle) “to, toward, near to, hither, here” > PIE *?e/*?o “hither,
near to, toward”, *-i deictic particle meaning “here and now” added to verbs to form so-
called “primary” endings; PAA *?a “to, toward, in, on”; S e “hither, here”.
444. PN *?H*?e proximate demonstrative particle (probably identical to the preceding
adverbial particle), *?a/*?3 distant demonstrative particle > PIE *?e-/*?o-, *?ey-/*?oy-/*?i-
(< *?e-/*?o- + y/i-) demonstrative stem; PK */- demonstrative stem, *e- demonstrative stem;
PU *e- demonstrative particle; PD *a distant demonstrative particle, *f proximate
demonstrative particle; PA */-, *e- proximate demonstrative particle.
445. PN *?ay(y)- “mother, female relative” > PIE *?ay-t[h]- “mother”; PAA *?ay(y)-
“mother”; PD *a(y)- “mother”; PI *ayak “maternal aunt”.
446. PN *?am-/*?3m- “time, moment” > Indo-European: Old Irish amm “time, moment, point
of time”; PAA *?am-/*?3m- “time, now”.
447. PN *?ak[h]-l* ?3k[h]- “to cut, to strike, to wound, to hurt, to injure, to cause grief; to be
hurt, wounded, injured” > PIE *?ek[h]-/*?ok[h]- “to be wounded, hurt, injured”; PAA
*?ak[h]-/*?3k[h]- “to cut, to strike, to wound, to hurt, to injure, to cause grief; to be hurt,
wounded, injured”; PD *ak- “to break, to cut to pieces”; S AK “to strike”.
448. PN *?at[h]r-l*?3t[h]r- “at once, early, quickly” > PIE (lengthened-grade) *?et[h]r- “at
once, quickly, early”; PK ^atpjre > [with voicing]) *adre “at once, quickly, early”; PA
(*etre > [with metathesis]) *Srte “early”.
449. PN *?al-/*?3l- element of negation > Indo-European: Hittite li-e element used with the
present indicative to express a negative command; PAA *?al-/*?sl- element of negation;
Uralic: Finnish ala (2nd sg,)/al- or ela/el- imperative of the negative auxiliary verb; Yurak
190 8. Common Nostratic Roots
Samoyed / Nenets e/e, el “not”; PD *al- “to be not so-and-so”; PA *uli- negative element
preceding verbs; S li negative particle: “not, un-”.
450. PN *?il-l*?el- “to shine, to radiate, to flash, to glitter, to glisten” > PK *el- “lightning”;
Afroasiatic: Semitic: Arabic 'alaka “to shine, to radiate, to flash, to glitter, to glisten”; PD
*el- “to shine, to glisten, to glitter; (n.) luster, splendor, light; sun”.
451. PN *?ar-l*?or- “to cut (off, apart), to sever, to separate, to part asunder” > PIE *?er-d[h
J-
l*?or-d[h]-l*?r-d[h]- “to split, to divide, to separate”; PD *ar- “to cut off, to chop off, to
sever”.
452. PN *?il-/*?el- “hoofed, cud-chewing animal” > PIE *?el-/*?ol- “hoofed, cud-chewing
animal”; Afroasiatic: PSC *?aale- “hoofed, cud-chewing animal”; PD *il- “stag, antelope,
deer” (Tamil iralai [< *ilar-] “stag, a kind of deer”; Telugu iri “stag”, irri [< *ilri]
“antelope”, led, ledi [< *ilati] “antelope”; Malto ilari “the mouse deer”); Altaic: Mongolian
Hi “a young deer, fawn”; Khalkha il “a young deer, fawn”.
453. PN *?al-/*?ol- “to purify, to cleanse” (> “to sift, to clean grain”) > PAA *?al-/*?ol- “to
purify, to cleanse; to sift, to clean grain”; PD *al- “to wash, to rinse”; Altaic: Mongolian
elkeg “sieve, sifter, strainer, bolter”, elkegde- “to sift, to bolt”; Turkish elek “sieve”, elmek
“to sift, to sieve”.
454. PN *?any- “mother, aunt” > PIE *?ano-s “mother”; Afroasiatic: PSC *?arj- “father’s
sister”; PU *anya “mother, aunt”; PD *ann- “a woman, mother”; Altaic: Turkish ana
“mother”; PE *a(a)na “mother, grandmother”.
455. PN *har-/*hor- “to release, to set free; to become free” > PIE *her- [*har-]/*hor-/*hr-
“to release, to set free”; PAA *har-/*hor- “to release, to set free; to become free”.
456. PN *hap[h]-/*hop[h]- “to turn, to turn away, to turn back” > PIE *hep[h]o [* hapP'Jo
\
“(turned) away, back”; PAA *hap[h]-l*hop[h]- “to turn, to turn away, to turn back”.
457. PN *hal-/*hol- “to light up, to beam forth, to shine, to brighten up, to radiate” > PIE
*hel-b[h]o- [
*hal-b[h]o-] “white; cloud, whiteness”; PAA *hal-/*hol- “to light up, to beam
forth, to shine, to brighten up, to radiate”; PD *al- “to shine, to glitter; (n.) beauty, pleasure”;
S al-e “to light up, to shine, to brighten up, to radiate, to beam forth”.
458. PN *haw-/*how- “to long for, to desire” > PIE *hew- [*haw-] “to long for, to desire”;
PAA *haw-/*how- “to long for, to desire”; PD *av- “to desire”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 191
459. PN *hak'-/*hak’- “to inflict pain, to wrong, to offend, to oppress” > PIE *hek '-
[ *hak’-]
“to inflict pain, to wrong, to offend, to injure”; Affoasiatic: Egyptian hq “to oppress, to
inflict pain, to diminish”, hqs “to defraud, to steal”.
460. PN * haw-/* haw- “to put on, to get dressed, to wear” > PIE *hew- [*haw-], *hw-es-/*hw-
os- “to put on, to wear”; PAA * haw-/*haw- “to put on, to get dressed, to wear”.
461. PN * hag-/*hag- “to bum, to be on fire, to be aflame, to be ablaze; to shine brightly” >
Indo-European: Sanskrit ahi-h “the sun”, aha “day”; PAA * hag-/* hag- “to bum, to be on
fire, to be aflame, to be ablaze; to shine brightly”.
462. PN *ham-/*ham- “black” > PIE *hem-s- [*ham-s-\, *hm-es- “blackbird”, (?) *hms-
“black, dark”; PAA * ham-/*ham- “black”.
463. PN *hay exclamation of surprise, astonishment, grief, or misfortune > PIE *hey [*hay\
exclamation of surprise, astonishment, grief, or misfortune; PAA *hay exclamation of
surprise, astonishment, grief, or misfortune; Uralic: Finnish ai “oh!, oh dear!”; Hungarian
ajaj “oh dear!”; PD *ayya exclamation of pain, surprise, grief, pity, or lamentation; Altaic:
Mongolian ai, aia (aya) interjection expressing pity, sympathy, worry, or fear: “oh!, ah!”;
Manchu ai “hey!”, aya interjection of praise or surprise.
464. PN *hal-/*hal- “else, otherwise” > PIE *hel- [*hal-] “else, otherwise; other”; PAA *hal-/
*hal- “else, otherwise”; PE *alaR “other (of pair)”.
465. PN *haTj-/*harj- “to split apart, to open (tr.); to gape, to open (the mouth), to yawn; (n.)
opening: yawn, gape, mouth; hole; crack, crevice” > PIE *hen-t[h]ro- [*han-t[h]ro-] (“hole,
opening” >) “cave, cavern”; PFU *arja- “to open”, PU *ar)a “mouth, opening”; PD *ank- “to
open the mouth, to gape, to yawn”, *an- “neck, jaw, chin, throat, mouth”; PA *ag “crack,
cleft”, *arj-a- “to open”; PE *ayva- “to be open”, *ar/vaR- “to open”.
466. PN *hay-aw-/*hay-aw- “to live” > *frheyw- [*hhayw-]/*hhoyw-, *hheyu- [*fihayu-]l
*fihoyu- “alive; life, lifetime”; PAA *hayaw-l*hayaw-l*ftayaw-l*hayaw- “to live”; PA
(*ayu > *ayii >) *oyu “alive, life”.
467. PN *?ay-, *?ya- interrogative and relative pronoun stem > PIE *?yo- relative pronoun
stem; Kartvelian: Svan (interrogative) jar “who?”, (relative) jerwaj “who”, (indefinite) jer
“somebody, something”, jere “someone, somebody”, jerwale “anybody”; PAA *?ay(y)-
interrogative pronoun stem; PFU *yo- “who, which”; PD *ya- interrogative stem; PA *ya-
interrogative stem: “who?, which?, what?”; (?) S (animate interrogative) a-ba “who?”,
(inanimate interrogative) a-na “what?” (if a- < *ya-).
192 8. Common Nostratic Roots
468. PN *?ya- interrogative verb stem: “to do what?, to act in what manner?” (derivative of
the preceding) > PIE *?yo- originally an interrogative verb stem meaning “to do what?, to act
in what manner?”, later simply “to do, to make, to perform”; PD *iya- “to do, to effect, to
cause, to induce, to cause to act; to be possible, to be proper”; Altaic: CM *yaya-, *yeyi-
(< *yayi-), *yeki- interrogative verb stem: “to do what?, to act in what manner?”.
469. PN *yiw-/*yew- “grain” > PIE *yewo- “grain”; PFU (*yewa >) *yuwa “grain”.
470. PN *?iya 1st person personal pronoun stem (postnominal possessive/preverbal agentive)
> PAA *?oya 1st person personal pronoun stem; PED *i “I”, PD *i-on > * ion [*yon] > (with
vowel lengthening in accordance with Zvelebil’s Law) *yan-/*y- “I”.
471 . PN *yam- “water, sea” > PAA *yam- “sea”; Uralic: Proto-Samoyed *yama “sea”; (?) PD
*am- “water”.
472. PN *ya?-/*yo?- “to tie, to bind, to gird” > PIE *yo?-s- (> *yds-) “to gird”; Afroasiatic:
Egyptian Um “to tie, to bind”; PU *ydya “belt, band, strap, girdle”; PD *ya- “to bind; (n.)
binding, bond”.
473. PN *yan-/*yon- “to say, to speak” > PAA *yan-/*yon- “to say”; PD *yan- “to say”.
474. PN *wad-/*wod- “to take, to lead, to carry, to bring” > PIE *
wed[h]-f* wod[h]- “to lead,
to bring, to carry”; PAA *wad-/*wod- “to take, to lead, to carry, to bring”; PFU *wetd- “to
take, to guide, to lead, to carry”.
475. PN *wa-/*wo- 1st person personal pronoun stem > PIE *we-l*wo-, *wey- 1st person dual
and plural personal pronoun stem; PK *-we- in (inclusive) *c[h]-we-[na] “we”, *c[hJ-we-n-
“our”; PAA *wa-/*wo- 1st person personal pronoun stem.
476. PN *?aw-, *?wa/*?wo “or” > PIE *?we “or”; PAA *?aw- “or”.
477. PN *wa/*wo sentence particle: “and, also, but; like, as” > PIE *we, *u sentence particle:
“and, also, but; like, as”; Kartvelian: Georgian -ve enclitic particle; PAA *wa sentence
particle.
478. PN * wad-1* wad- “to cut, to strike, to slay” > PIE *wedp,
]-/*wod[h]- “to cut, to strike, to
slay”; PAA *wad-l*wod- “to cut, to strike, to slay”; PD *vett- “to cut (as with sword or ax),
to cut off, to engrave, to cut into”.
479. PN *way exclamation: “woe!” > PIE *way exclamation: “woe!”; PAA *way
exclamation: “woe!”; S ii-a, u “woe!”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 193
480. PN *war-/*xv9r- “to look at, to watch out for, to observe, to care for” > PIE *wer-/*wor-
“to look, to watch out for, to observe, to care for”; Affoasiatic: Egyptian wrh “to guard, to
protect”, wrs “to watch, to observe, to be awake”; Proto-Ugric *war3- “to watch over, to look
after, to tend, to attend to, to keep, to guard, to wait for, to wait on”.
481. PN *wa?-/*w3?- “to call, to cry out, to sound” > PIE *we57i- [*wa5Yi-]/*woJYj- (> *wa-l
*wd-) “to call, to call out”; PAA *waT-/*wa?- “to call, to cry out, to sound”; PD *vank- “to
call, to cry out, to sound”.
482. PN *wir-/*wer- “to stretch, to extend, to expand” > PIE *wer-/*ur- “to stretch, to extend;
wide, broad, extended, great, large”; PK *wrc[h
J,e-l- “wide, broad”; PAA *war-/*w3r- “to
stretch, to extend, to spread out”.
483. PN *wat’-/*w3t’- “to moisten, to wet; water” > PIE *wet'-/*wot’-/*ut'- “to moisten, to
wet; water”; PU *weta “water”; PD *ot- “moisture, dampness, wetness”.
484. PN *wus-/*wos- “to trade, to deal” > PIE *wes-/*wos- “to trade, to deal”; PFU *wosa
“trade, commerce”.
485. PN *wal-/*w3l- “to pull (out)” > PIE *wel-/*wol-/*wl- “to draw, to pull, to tear out”; PD
*val- “to draw, to pull, to pull up”.
486. PN *walY-/*w3ly- “to turn, to roll, to revolve” > PIE *wel-/*wol-/*wl- “to turn, to roll, to
revolve”; PAA *wal-/*w9l- “to revolve”; PD *val- “to circle around, to surround; (n.) ring,
bracelet, circle”.
487. PN *wal- “to be or become strong” > PIE *wal- “to be strong”; PD *val- “to be strong,
hard; (adj.) strong, hard, forceful; (n.) strength, power, firmness”.
488. PN *wal-/*w9l- “to cry out, to call out, to shout” > PIE *wal- “to shout”; Affoasiatic:
Semitic: Arabic (reduplicated) walwala “to cry ‘woe’, to lament, to wail, to howl, to break
into loud wails”; PD *val- “to say, to tell, to call”.
489. PN *wury-/*worY- “to scratch, to incise, to dig up” (> “to plow”) > PIE *wor-/*wr- “to
plow; (n.) furrow, ditch”; PD (*wur- >) *ur- “to plow”; S uru4,
urn(-ru) “to plow”.
490. PN *wum-/*wom- “to eject, to spit (out), to emit” > PIE *wem-/*wom- “to vomit, to spit
up”; PD ( *wum- >) *um- “to spit, to spit out, to emit”.
491. PN *wur-l*wor- “to bum” > PIE *wer-/*wor- “to bum”; PAA *war-/*war- “to bum”; PD
( *wur
-
>) *ur- “to bum”; S ur4-ur4 “to bum up, to consume, to flicker, to flame, to glitter, to
glisten”.
194 8. Common Nostratic Roots
492. PN *war-/*w3r- “to say, to speak, to tell, to point out, to make known” > PIE *wer- “to
say, to speak, to tell”; PAA *war-/*wor- “to say, to speak, to tell, to point out, to make
known”; PD *verr- “to say, to speak, to tell”.
493. PN *wir-/*wer- “poplar” > PIE *wer-n- “alder, poplar”; PK *\verxw- “aspen”; PD *viricu
“large sebesten”.
494. PN *waly-/*w9ly- “to blaze, to shine, to be bright” > PIE *wel- “to see, to look, to view”;
PFU *walyk3 “shining, white, light (of color)”, *waly3- “to shine, to gleam”; PD *oJ- “to
shine, to glitter; (n.) light, splendor, brightness”, *vel- “to dawn, to become white, to shine, to
be clean or bright; (adj.) white, pure, shining, bright”, *val- “to shine; (n.) luster, splendor,
brightness”.
495. PN *wal-/*wol- “to set fire to, to bum, to heat up, to warm” > PIE *wel-/*wol-/*wl- “to
heat, to warm, to boil”; Affoasiatic: Semitic: Arabic wali ‘a “to catch fire, to bum; to kindle,
to light, to set fire (to)”; PD *ol- “to set fire to, to char, to scorch”.
496. PN * wat 'y-/*wot ’y-
“the belly, stomach, bowels; womb; the interior or inside of anything”
> PIE *wet’-er-o-!*ut’-er-o- “the belly, stomach, bowels; womb; the interior or inside of
anything”; PFU *watya “the belly, stomach, bowels; womb; the interior or inside of
anything”; PD *vac- “the belly, stomach, bowels; womb; the interior or inside of anything”.
497. PN *wah-/*woft- “to strike, to stab, to wound” > PIE *wefrh- [*wafth-]/*wohh- (> *wa-/
*wo~) “to strike, to wound”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian whs “to hew or cut stone, to reap (crops),
to pluck (flowers, plants)”, whs “to cut off (hair), to kill (rebels), to quell (tumult)”, wh
‘
“to
wound, to stab with a knife, to sting (of a scorpion)”; Altaic: Manchu wa- “to kill, to slay”.
498. PN *wag-/*wQrj- “to bend” > PIE *wen-d[h]-l*won-d[h]-l*wn-d[h]- “to bend, to twist, to
turn”, *wen-k[h]-l*won-k[h]-l*wn-k[h]- “to bend, to twist, to turn”, *wen-k’-/*won-k’-/
*wn-k’- “to curve, to bend”, *
wen-gP1
]-/* won-gp']-!*wn-g[h]- “to turn, to go crookedly”;
PAA *wan-/*won- “to bend, to twist; to be bent, twisted, crooked”; PFP *warjka “bent or
curved object: hook, handle, knob, lever, elbow, etc.”; PD *vanki “bent or curved object:
hook, handle, curved ornament”, *vanank- “to bend”, * varik- “to bend, to bow, to stoop, to
become crooked”.
499. PN *wak’-/*w9k’- “to rouse, to stir up, to excite; (n.) energy, strength, vigor, power,
might” > PIE *wek’-/*wok’- “to rouse, to stir up, to excite, to awaken”; PFU *wcike
“strength, power”.
500. PN *war-/*wor- “to raise, to elevate; to grow, to increase; (n.) uppermost, highest, or
topmost part” > PIE *wer-d[h]-l*wor-d[h]-l*wr-d[h]- “to raise, to elevate, to grow, to
8. Common Nostratic Roots 195
increase”, *wer-s-/*wor-s-/*wr-s- “uppermost, highest, or topmost part”; Afroasiatic:
Egyptian wr “great, important, much, many, eldest”, wrr “to be great, to make great, to
increase, to grow high”, wr “greatness, great one, chief’; PFU *wara “(wooded) hill or
mountain”; PD *varay “mountain, peak, steep slope”.
501. PN *wasy-/*w9sy- “to crush, to grind, to pound, to wear out; to be or become worn out,
tired, weary, fatigued, exhausted” > PIE *wes- “to crush, to grind, to pound, to wear out; to
wither, to fade, to rot, to waste away”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian wss “to crush, to pound”, wsm
“to slay, to crush, to chop up, to split, to pound together”; PFP *wasya- “to be or become
tired, weary, fatigued, exhausted”; PD *vec- “to grow tired, fatigued, weary”.
502. PN * witip]-/* wetip]- “to strike, to hit, to beat” > Afroasiatic: PS *watj[h]-ay- “to
quarrel or fight with someone, to speak against”; PFU *weS3- “to strike, to kill, to slay, to
slaughter”; PD *vlkk- “to strike”.
503. PN *wat[h]-/*w3t[h]- “to pass (of time); to grow old, to age, to wither; (n.) year, age;
(adj.) old” > PIE *wet[h]- “to pass (of time); to grow old, to age; (n.) year, age; (adj.) old”;
PAA *wat[h]-/*wat[h]- “to pass (of time), to continue (for a long time)”; PD vatahk- “to
wither, to fade”; PA *dte “old (of people)”.
504. PN *wal-/*wal- “to flow, to wet, to moisten” > PIE *wel-kp,
]-/*wol-kP1
]-, wel-k'-t
*wol-k’-, * wel-g[h
J-/* wol-gP1
J- “to wet, to moisten”; Afroasiatic: Semitic: Arabic waliha-t
“well-watered, rich in vegetation”; PD *ol- “to flow”, *val- “to drip, to drizzle”.
505. PN *wal-/*w9l- (?) “to well up, to flow forth, to flood” (probably identical to the
preceding) > PIE *wel-/*wol-/*wl~ “surge, wave”; PD *vellam “flood, inundation, wave”.
506. PN *wal-/*wal- “to crush, to grind, to wear out; to be worn out, weak; to fade, to wither,
to waste away” > PIE *wel-/*wol-/*wl- “to crush, to grind, to wear out; to be worn out, weak;
to fade, to wither, to waste away”; PD *val- “to be tired; to be thin; to be painful”, *olk- “to
grow weak or faint; to become reduced, slender, emaciated, thin”; PA *67- “to be weak from
hunger, to wither, to fade, to starve to death”.
507. PN *wal-/*wgl- “to strike, to wound, to destroy” (probably identical to the preceding) >
PIE *wel-/*wol-/*wl- “to strike, to wound”; PD *vel- “to conquer, to overcome, to destroy”.
508. PN *wuy-/*woy- “to make an effort, to act with energy; (n.) strength, power” > PIE
*wey(H)-/*woy(H)-/*wi(H)- “to make an effort, to act with energy; (n.) strength, power”,
*wey-k[h]-/*woy-k[h
J-/*wi-k[h
J- “to make an effort, to act with energy; (n.) strength, power”;
PFU *woye- “to be able, to have the power or capability”; Altaic: PT *u(y)~ “to be able, to
have power or capability”.
1 96 8. Common Nostratic Roots
509. PN *wuy-/*woy- “to swim, to float” > PAA * way-1* woy- “to swim, to float, to sail”; PU
*woya- “to swim”; PA *oyimu- “to swim (across)”.
510. PN *
wuy-ikP1
]-!* woy-ik[h]- “to arrange or put in order; (adj.) straight, right, correct, true”
> PIE *weyk[h
]-/*woyk[»J-^wIkP1
]- “to arrange or put in order, to make equal or similar; that
which is true, reasonable, equal, or similar”; PFU *woyke “straight, right, correct, true”; PD
*oyk- “order, straightness, fitness”.
511. PN *wun-d-/*won-d- “(young, fine, or soft) hair” > PIE *wend[h
J-/*wond[h
J- “(young,
fine, or soft) hair, beard”; PU *wunta “(young, fine, or soft) hair, beard”; PD *ontu “stubble”.
512. PN *wut[h
J-/*wot[h
J- “to take hold of, to seize, to grasp, to collect, to take away” >
Afroasiatic: Semitic: Geez wataga, wattaga “to flee, to escape, to recoil, to hide (by
fleeing), to rob”; PFU *wotta- “to take hold of, to gather, to collect”; PD *ot- “to bring, to
take, to fetch”.
513. PN *mah-l*mdh- “to increase, to swell, to exceed, to surpass, to be great” > PAA *maJi-/
*moti- “to increase, to swell”; PD *ma- “big, great”, *man- “to become excellent, glorious; to
be full, abundant, great; (n.) greatness, excellence, splendor, glory”, *mel-ti “chief, head;
greatness, excellence”; S mah “to be or make great, magnificent; to be much, many”.
514. PN *maG-l*m3G- “to be of great influence, importance, or power; to be eminent, exalted,
highly esteemed, glorious, illustrious” > PIE *meg[h
J-/*mog[h
J- “to be of great influence,
importance, or power; to be eminent, exalted, highly esteemed, glorious, illustrious”;
Kartvelian: Georgian mayali “high, great”; PAA *mag-/*mog- “to be of great influence,
importance, or power; to be eminent, exalted, highly esteemed, glorious, illustrious”.
515. PN *mig-/*meg- “to give” > PIE *meg[h]- “to give”; PAA *mag-/*mog- “to deliver, to
offer” (not a loan from Sanskrit); PU *miya- “to give, to sell”.
516. PN *mi?-/*me?- “to reap, to harvest” > PIE *me?- (> *me-) “to mow, to reap”;
Afroasiatic: Egyptian ml “to reap, to harvest”, mis “to cut”.
517. PN *mat[h]-/*m3t[h]- “middle; in the middle of, with, among” > PIE *met[h]- “middle;
in the middle of, with, among”; PAA *mat[h
J-/*m9t[h
J- “middle; in the middle of, with”.
518. PN *mul-/*mol- “to rub, to crush, to grind” > PIE *mel-/*mol-/*ml- “to rub, to crush, to
grind”; PAA *mal-!*mol- “to rub, to crush, to grind”; PU *mola- “to grind, to crush, to break,
to smash”; PD *mel- “to be or become thin, weak, lean; (adj.) soft, tender, thin”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 197
519. PN * man-/*man- “to divide, to apportion” (> “to count, to reckon” > “to consider, to
think” > “to recount” > “to speak, to say”) > PIE *men-/*mon-/*mn- “to reckon, to consider,
to think”; PAA *man-/*man- “to divide, to apportion; to count, to reckon, to enumerate”; PU
*mana- (*mona-) “to consider, to conjecture, to recount, to say, to speak”; PD ( *many
-
>)
*man- “to talk, to speak”.
520. PN *man-t*man- “to stay, to remain, to abide, to dwell; to be firm, steadfast, established,
enduring” > PIE *men-/*mon- “to stay, to remain, to abide, to dwell; to be firm, steadfast,
established, enduring”; PAA *man-/*man- “to stay, to remain, to abide, to dwell; to be firm,
steadfast, established, enduring”; PD *man- “to stay, remain, to abide; (n.) house, dwelling,
abode”; PA *mana- “to stand watch”.
521. PN *maw-/*maw- “water, liquid, fluid” > PIE * mew-/*mow-/*mu- “water, liquid, fluid;
to be wet, damp”; PAA *maw-/*maw- “water, liquid, fluid”.
522. PN *mar-/*mar- “young man, young animal” > PIE *mer-yo- “(young) man”; PAA
*mar-/*mar- “(young) man”; PD *mari “young of animals; husband, man, son”.
523. PN *ma(?)/*ma(?) negative/prohibitive particle > PIE *me? (> *me) prohibitive particle;
Kartvelian: Svan (particle of modal negation) mad “no, not”, mam(a) “not”, mama “no”;
PAA *ma(?) negative/prohibitive particle.
524. PN *mi-l*me- interrogative pronoun stem, *ma-l*ma- relative pronoun stem > PIE *me-/
*mo- interrogative and relative pronoun stem; PK *mi-n- interrogative pronoun, *ma-
“what”; PAA *ma-/*ma- relative and interrogative pronoun stem; PU *mi interrogative and
relative pronoun stem; Altaic: Turkish mi, mi, mu, mii interrogative particle; S me-na-dm
“when?”, me-a “where?”, me-se “where to?”. PE enclitic particle *mi “what about?”.
525. PN *mir-/*mer- “to stab, to pierce, to cause pain; to suffer pain, to be weakened, to be
afflicted” > PIE *mer-/*mor-/*mr- “to die”; PAA * mar-/*mar- “to suffer pain, to be
weakened, to be afflicted; to be or become sick, to fall ill; to die”; PD *mir- “to pierce, to
stab, to cause pain; to suffer pain, to be afflicted”.
526. PN *mur-/*mor- “to crush, to break, to destroy” > PIE *mer-/*mor-/*mr- “to crush, to
destroy; to be or become crushed, to disintegrate”; PU *mura- “to break, to shatter”; PD
*mur- “to crush, to break, to cut”, *mur- “to break, to crush, to destroy”; S mur “to crush, to
grind”.
527. PN *mat '-/*mat ’-
“to stretch, to expand, to lengthen, to draw out, to measure out” > PIE
* met'-/* mot’- “to measure, to measure out, to estimate”; Kartvelian: Georgian mat’- “to
augment, to increase”; PAA *mat’-l*mat’- “to stretch, to expand, to lengthen, to draw out, to
measure out”; PA *mede- “to know, to perceive, to understand”.
198 8. Common Nostratic Roots
528. PN *mal-/*m3l- “to fill, to be or become full, to increase” > PIE *mel-/*moI-/*ml-
“much, many, very much”; PAA *mal-/*mgl- “to fill, to be full”; PD *mal- “to increase, to
abound, to be plentiful, to be full; (n.) abundance, wealth, strength, greatness”.
529. PN *mal-/*mal- “good, pleasant” > PIE *mel-/*mol- “good, pleasant”; Afroasiatic:
Semitic: Arabic mallh “good”; Ugaritic mlh “good, pleasant”.
530. PN *mar-/*m3r- “any body of water: lake, sea” > PIE *mar-i- “a body of water: lake,
sea”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian mr “any body of water: lake, pool, cistern, flood, reservoir,
stream, basin, canal”; PA *mdr “river, water”.
531. PN *mur-/*mor- “to twist, to turn, to bend” > PIE *mer-/*mor- “to twist, to turn”; PAA
*mar-l*mar- “to twist, to turn”; PD *mur- “to bend, to be bent, to turn round, to twist; (n.)
rope, cord; bend, curve”, *mur- “to twist, to twine, to tighten”; PA *muru- “to turn, to twist,
to bend”.
532. PN *mur-/*mor- “mulberry, blackberry” > PIE *mor- “blackberry, mulberry”;
Afroasiatic: Egyptian mr “mulberry-tree”; PU *mura “Rubus chamaemorus”.
533. PN *mun-/*mon- “to protrude; to stand out; to jut out; to be first, foremost, in front of;
(n.) topmost or most protuberant part, highest or farthest point” > PIE *men-l*mon-l*mn- “to
protrude, to stand out, to jut out; (n.) highest or farthest point, topmost or most protuberant
part”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian mn, mny “mountain, stone, hill”, mnw “monument”; PD *mun-
“point, end, extremity; before, in front, further; first”.
534. PN *mun-at’y-l*mon-at’y- “to suckle; (n.) breast, udder” > PIE * merit ’-/*mont ’-/*mnt
“to suckle; (n.) suckling, young animal; breast, udder”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian mnd “breast”;
PD *monci “breasts”.
535. PN *mal-/*m9l- “honey” > PIE *mel-i-t[h
J- “honey”; PAA *mal-/*m3l- “honey”.
536. PN *mat[h
J-/*m3t[h
J- “to set in motion, to arouse, to excite, to impel; to be luxuriant or
fruitful, to be fertile; to be energetic, vigorous, strong; (n.) man, male” > Indo-European: Old
Icelandic madr “man, human being”; Ligurian (in Romansch) mat “boy”; PAA *mat[h]-l
*m3t[h]- “to be energetic, vigorous, strong, fertile”, *mat[h]- “man, male”; PD *mat- “to be
luxuriant or fruitful, to be fertile, to grow fat; to be in must (n.) strength, abundance, excess”.
537. PN *mat’-/*m3t’- “to be or become wet, moist” > PIE *mat’- “to be wet, moist”; PAA
*mat '-/*m3t ’-
“to be or become wet, moist”.
538. PN *mar-/*mar- “to smear, to anoint, to rub (with grease, fat, ointment)” > PIE *(s)mer-l
*(s)mor-/*(s)mr- “to smear, to anoint, to rub (with oil, fat, or ointment”); PAA * mar-1*mar-
8. Common Nostratic Roots 1 99
“to smear, to anoint, to rub (with grease, fat, ointment)”; PD *mer- “to rub (oil, etc. on
oneself or on another), to smear”; S mar “to daub, to anoint”.
539. PN * mar-1*mar- “to soil, to stain; (n.) spot, stain, dirt; (adj.) dark, dirty, soiled” (possibly
related to the preceding) > PIE *mer-l*mor-/*mr- “to soil, to stain; (n.) spot, stain, dirt; (adj.)
dark, dirty, soiled”; PD *mar- “stain, blot, spot”.
540. PN *mi-/*me- 1st person personal pronoun stem > PIE *me-/*mo- 1st person personal
pronoun stem; PK *me-, *men- 1st person personal pronoun stem; PAA *ma-/*ma- 1st
person personal pronoun stem; PU *me 1st person sg. personal pronoun stem: “I, me”, *me
1st pi. personal pronoun stem; PA (nom. sg.) ( *mi >) *bi “I”, (oblique stem) *min-\ S
(Emesal) ma(-e), me-a, me-e “I”, (1st pi. possessive suffix) -me “our”; Eskimo-Aleut: West
Greenlandic 1st sg. relative possessive suffix -ma.
541. PN * many-/*many- “to lust after, to desire passionately, to copulate, to have sexual
intercourse, to beget” > (?) Indo-European: Irish mian “desire”; Welsh mwyn “enjoyment,
value; gentle, kind, dear”, mwynhau “to enjoy”; PAA *man-/*man- “to lust after, to desire
passionately, to copulate, to have sexual intercourse, to beget”; PD *man- “to be united with,
to love, to copulate with, to wed; (n.) copulation, union, marriage”.
542. PN *many-/*many- “progenitor, begetter, man, male” (derivative of the preceding) > PIE
*man(u)- “man, begetter, progenitor”; Afroasiatic: PHEC *man(n)- “man, person”; PEC
(with fossilized feminine suffix) *man-t-/*min-t- “woman”; PFU *manytr3 “man, male”; PD
*manc- “man, husband”.
543. PN *madw-/*madw- “honey, mead” > PIE *med[h]w/u- “honey, mead”; PFU *mete
“honey”; PD *mattu “honey, toddy”.
544. PN *musy-ik’-/*mosy-ik’- “to immerse in water, to dip or plunge in water” > PIE *mesk’-l
*mosk’- “to immerse in water, to dip or plunge in water”; PU *musyka- ( *mosyka-) “to
wash”; PD ( *muy-/*muc
-
>) *mT(y)-/*muc- “to wash, to bathe”.
545. PN *mag- “young; young person, child” > PIE *mag[h
J- “young”, *mag[h]u- “young
person, child”; PD *maka “young person, child”.
546. PN *mik'-/*mek’- “to exceed, to surpass, to be in excess, to grow, to increase, to swell, to
expand; (adj.) big, great, much” > PIE *mek’- “big, great, much”; PD *mik- “to exceed, to
surpass, to be in excess, to grow, to increase, to swell, to expand; (adj.) great, much, superior;
(n.) abundance, fullness, excess, surplus”.
547. PN *mur-l*mor- “to make a noise, to murmur” > PIE *mur-, *mor-, (redup.) *murmur-,
*mormor- “to murmur, to rustle, to grumble”; PAA * mar-/* mar- “to murmur, to make a
noise”; PFU *mura xrying, shouting, singing; to cry, to shout, to sing”; PD *mur- “to make a
200 8. Common Nostratic Roots
sound, to cry, to sing, to rumble”, *mur- “to murmur, to grumble”, ( *mury-
>) *mur- “to
make a sound, to make aloud noise”; S mur “cry, scream, shouting, yelling, voice”.
548. PN *mak'-/*mok'- “to handle, to work with the hands” > PIE *mak’- “to work with the
hands, to form, to shape, to prepare, to make”; PAA *mak'-l*msk’- “to handle, to work with
the hands”; PU *mekd- “to do, to make, to fabricate; (n.) work, handicraft”.
549. PN *mun-/*mon- “egg, testicle” > Indo-European: Common Slavic (*mon-d[h]- >)
*mgdo “testicle”; PU *muna “egg, testicle”; PD *muntay “egg, testicle”.
550. PN *mal-/*m9l- “hill, mountain” > PIE *mel-/*mol- “hill, mountain”; PD *malay “hill,
mountain”.
551. PN *muk’-/*mok'- “to strain, to make great efforts” > Indo-European: Greek goyot;
(< *mok’-) “toil, trouble”, goyeco “to toil, to suffer”; PD *mukk- “to strain, to make great
efforts”.
552. PN *mal-/*mol- “to draw (out), to pull (out), to suck (out)”, derivative (in Indo-European,
Uralic, and Dravidian) *ma!-iq '-/*mol-iq ’- “to draw (out), to suck (out); to give suck, to
suckle, to nurse” > PIE *melk’-/*molk’-/*mlk’- “to draw (milk), to milk, to suck; to give
suck, to suckle”; PAA *mal-/*mol- “to draw (out), to suck out”; PFU *malke “breast”; PD
*melk- “to chew”; PE *moluy- “to suck (breast)”.
553. PN *mag-/*mog- “earth, land” > PIE *mag[h
J- “earth, land”; PU *maya “earth, land”.
554. PN *mar-/*mor- “tree, wood” > Afroasiatic: Egyptian mrw “a kind of wood”; PFU
*mora “tree, wood”; PD *maram “tree, wood”.
555. PN *ma-/*mo-, *mu-/*mo- demonstrative stem > Indo-European *mo- demonstrative
stem (preserved vestigially in Celtic); PK *ma- demonstrative stem: “this, he”; PFU *mu
“other, another”; Altaic: CT (nom. sg.) ( *mu/*mo >) *bu/*bd “this”, (oblique stem) *mu-n-\
Mongolian mon deictic word serving as a demonstrative pronoun, adjective, adverb, and
copula.
556. PN *nat'-/*not’- “to moisten, to wet” > PIE *net’-/*not’- “to moisten, to wet”; PAA
*nat -!*not '-
“to moisten, to wet”.
557. PN *nik[h
J-/*nek[h]- “to strike, to hit” > PIE *nek[h]-/*nok[h]- “to slay, to smite”; PAA
*nak[h
J-/*nok[h
J- “to strike, to hit”; PU *nikka- “to push”; PD *nek- “to suffer, to be
distressed”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 201
558. PN *nir-/*ner- “to be strong, manly, virile” > PIE *ner- “to be strong, manly, virile; (n.)
man, hero”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian nr “to be strong, mighty”, nrw “power, strength, victory,
valor, mighty one”; S ner “prince”.
559. PN *nat’y-/*n9t’y- “to turn, to twist together” > PIE *net’-/*not’- “to turn, to twist
together, to tie, to bid”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian nd “string, thread”.
560. PN *nap[h]-/*n9p[h]- “to breathe, to blow” > PIE (* npf1']- > [with metathesis])
*p[h]n-ew-/*p[h]n-ow-/*p[h]n-u-, *p[h]n-es-/*p[h]n-os-, *p[h]n-ek[h
J- “to breathe, to blow”;
PAA *naf-/*naf- “to breathe, to blow”.
561 . PN *naw-/*naw- “time” > PIE *nu “now”; Afroasiatic: Egyptian nw “time, hour”.
562. PN *na/*na, *ni/*ne, *nu/*no negative/prohibitive particle > PIE *ne, *n-, *ney negative
particle; PK *nu prohibitive particle; Afroasiatic: Egyptian n, nn, ni, ny, nw “not”; PU *ne
negative particle; S na “not”, na- prohibitive prefix, nu “not”, nu- negative prefix.
563. PN *nah-/*n3fr- “to tremble, to shake; to fear, to be afraid” > PIE *nehh- [*natih-] (>
*na-) “to fear”; PAA *nah-l*nafi- “to tremble, to shake; to fear, to be afraid”.
564. PN *na-/*na- 1st person personal pronoun stem > PIE *ne-/*no-/*n-s- used in the oblique
cases of the personal pronoun of the first person dual and plural; Kartvelian: Svan naj “we”;
PAA *na-/*na- 1st person personal pronoun stem; PD *nam-, *nam- “we” (inclusive).
565. PN *nab-/*nab- “to burst forth, to gush forth” > PIE *neb[h]-/*nob[h]- “to burst out, to
burst forth”; PAA *nab-/*nab- “to burst forth, to gush forth”; PE *navay- “to break”.
566. PN * nag-/* nag- “to strike, to split, to pierce” > PIE *neg[h]-/*nog[h
J- “to strike, to split,
to pierce”; PAA *nag-/*nag- “to strike, to split, to pierce”.
567. PN *nusy-/*nosy- “to wear down, to reduce in size, to diminish, to weaken” > Indo-
European: Greek vooeco “to be ill, to ail”, voooq “sickness, disease, malady”; PAA *nasy-/
*n3sy- “to wear down, to reduce in size, to diminish, to weaken”; PD ( *noy-/*noc- >) *no(y)-
/*noc- “to be weakened, debilitated, sick; to ache; to suffer, to be in pain”.
568. PN *na?-/*na?- “to come, to go, to arrive, to journey, to travel, to sail” > PIE (*neffi-
[*na?fi-]/*noTfi- “to sail, to set sail”:) *ne <
iR-u-s [*naffi-u-s] “ship”; PAA *na?-/*n3?- “to
come, to go, to arrive, to journey, to travel, to sail”.
202 8. Common Nostratic Roots
569. PN *?in-im-/*?in-em- “to say, to speak, to name; (n.) name” > PIE *(H)nemn,
* (H)nomnl* (H)nom(e)n- “name”; PU *nima “name”; S inim “word”, inim-dun “to speak”,
inim-bal “to say, to speak, to tell; (n.) speech, utterance”, inim-e “to say a word, to utter”.
570. PN *na-/*no-, *ni-/*ne~, *nu-/*no- demonstrative stem > PIE *ne-/*no- (derivative form
*?e-no-/*?o-no- < *?e-/*?o- + *no-) demonstrative stem; PAA *na-/*no- demonstrative
stem; PU *na/*na ( *ni/*ne ?), *no demonstrative stem; S ne-en, ne(-e) “this”.
571. PN *naw-l*naw- “to sound, to call, to praise” > PIE *new-/*now-/*nu- “to sound, to
shout, to exult, to praise, to commend”; Afroasiatic: Semitic: Arabic nawwaha “to praise, to
laud, to extol, to acclaim, to speak highly of, to commend”; PD *nav- “to say, to tell, to utter,
to sound loudly, to sing; (n.) voice, song”.
572. PN *nat’- “woman, female relative” > Afroasiatic: PSC *nat'a “woman”; PU *nata
“sister-in-law, younger brother of the husband or the wife”; PD *mt- “husband’s sister,
sister-in-law”.
573. PN *nyip[h]-/*nyep[h]~ “offspring” > PIE *nep[h]-(o)t[h]- “descendant, offspring”; PAA
*naf-l*n9f- “offspring”; PU *nyepla “reindeer calf’.
574. PN *nyam-/*nyom- “to press, to squeeze” > PFU *nyam3- “to press (together), to
squeeze”; PD *nam- “to press, to squeeze, to crush, to pinch”.
575. PN *
nyaT-ar-/* nyoS-ar- “to appear, to arise, to sprout, to come into being; to grow (up),
to mature” > PAA *na?-ar-/*no?-ar- “to appear, to arise, to sprout, to come into being; to
grow (up), to mature”; PU *nydrd “sprout, sprig, twig”; PD *mr- “to appear, to arise, to
sprout, to come into being; to grow (up), to mature”; PA *ny§ry- “new, fresh; new-born;
spring, summer”.
576. PN (?)*nyim-/*nyem- “to bend; (adj.) flexible, pliant, yielding, soft” > PIE *nem-/*nom-/
*nm- “to bend”; PU (?) *ny[u]ma “soft”; PA *ny'im- “flexible, pliant, yielding, thin, soft”.
577. PN *nyim-/*nyem- “to stretch, to extend, to increase” > PAA *nam-/*nom- “to stretch, to
extend, to increase”; PD *him- “to spread, to extend, to straighten; to be or become erect,
upright, straightened, outstretched”.
578. PN *luk’-/*lok'- “to gather, to collect” > PIE *lek’-/*lok’- “to pick, to gather, to collect”;
PAA *lak’-/*l3k’- “to gather, to collect”; PFU *luke- “to read, to count”.
579. PN *law-/*l9w- “to be or become dirty, tarnished, stained, soiled, filthy” > PIE *lew-/
*low-/*lu- “to make dirty; (n.) dirt, filth”; Afroasiatic: Semitic: Arabic lata (base Iwt) “to
stain, to tarnish, to soil, to sully”, lawta “stain, blot, spot”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 203
580. PN * law-/*low- “to shine” > PIE *lew-k[h]-l*low-k[h]-l*lu-k[h]- “to shine, to be bright”;
PAA *law-/*low- “to shine, to gleam, to glitter”.
581. PN *law-ah-/*low-ah- “to wash, to clean” (possibly related to the preceding if from
“shining, bright, clean”) > PIE *lewhh-/*lowbh- “to wash”; S luh “to wash, to clean”, luh
(-luh) “to be washed, cleaned”.
582. PN *lah-/*loli- “to make flow, to pour, to moisten, to wet” > PIE *lehh- [*lahh-]
(extended form *lehh-w/u- [*lahh-w/u-]) “to pour out (liquids)”; PAA *lah-/*loti- “to make
flow, to pour, to moisten, to wet”; S lah “to wash, to clean”, lah “laundry, wash”.
583. PN *lakP‘J-/*lokp>]- “leg, foot” > PIE *lak[h
]- “leg, foot”; PAA *lak[h]-/*lok[t']- “leg,
foot”.
584. PN *law-/*low- “to bend, to twist, to turn” > PIE *lew-/*low-/*lu- “to bend, to twist, to
turn, to wind”; PAA *law-/*low- “to bend, to twist, to turn”.
585. PN * law-/* low- “to yearn for, to feel burning desire” > PIE *lew-b[h]-l*low-b[h]-l
*lu-b[h
J- “to yearn for, to desire greatly”, ( *lew-s-/*low-s-/)*lu-s
-
“to yearn for, to desire
greatly, to lust after” (found only in Germanic); Afroasiatic: Semitic: Arabic la ‘a (base lw‘)
“to be burning, inflamed, languishing (with love, longing)”, laba (base Iwb) “to be thirsty”,
laha (base Iwh) “to be thirsty”.
586. PN *lamd-/*lomd- “low; low-lying ground, lowland, any piece of land” > PIE *lend[h]-l
*lond[h
]-/*lnd[h
J- “low-lying ground, lowland, any piece of land”; PU *lamta “low, low-
lying ground, lowland”.
587. PN * lag-/* log- “to put, to place, to lay, to set” > PIE *leg[h]-/*log[h]- “to put, to place, to
lay (down), to set; to lie (down)”; PK *lag-/*lg- “to put, to plant”.
588. PN * lab-/* lob- “to take hold of, to grasp” > PIE *lab[h]- “to take hold of, to grasp”; PAA
*lab-/*lob- “to take hold of, to grasp”.
589. PN *lak[h]-{/*lok[h
]-) “to lick, to lap up” > PIE *lak[»]- “to lick, to lap up”; PFU *lakka-
“to lick, to lap”.
590. PN *luk'-/*lok'- “to lick, to lap up, to gulp down, to swallow” > PK *lok’- “to lick”; PAA
*lak’-/*lok’- “to lick, to lap up, to gulp down, to swallow”.
591. PN *rak’-/*rok’- “to stretch, to extend, to draw out” > PIE *rek’-/*rok’-/*rk’- “to stretch,
to extend, to draw out”; PAA *rak'-/*rok’- “to stretch, to extend, to draw out”.
204 8. Common Nostratic Roots
592. PN *rak[h]-/*rok[h]- “to twist, to turn, to bind” > Indo-European: Sanskrit rasana “rope,
cord, strap, rein, bridle, girdle”; PAA *rak[h]-/*r9k[h]- “to twist, to turn, to bind”.
593. PN *?ur-/*?or- “to move rapidly, quickly, hastily; to set in motion” > PIE *?er-/*?or-/
*?t- “to move, to set in motion”; PAA *?ar-/*?or- “to move rapidly, quickly, hastily”; PD
*ur- “to hasten, to throw at high speed: (n.) rapidity, speed”.
594. PN *raw-ah-/*r3w-ah- “to be spacious, wide” > PIE *rewfih-/*rufih- (> *ru-) “wide,
spacious”; PAA * rawah -/*rowah-/* rawofr -Crowofr
-
“to be spacious, wide”.
595. PN *ra?-ay-/*ro?-ay- “to see, to perceive” > PIE *re?i-C-l*ro?i-C-l*r3?i-C- > (with
syncope of -/-) *re?-C-/*ro?-C-/*ro?-C- > (with loss of the laryngeal) *re-C-l*rd-C-l*ro-C-\
*re?y- V-/*ro?y- V-t*ro?y- V- > (with metathesis) *rey?- V-/*roy?- V-/*roy?- V- > (with loss of
the laryngeal) *rey-V-/*roy-V-/*riy-V- “to contemplate, to consider, to ponder, to reckon”;
PAA *ra?ay-/*ro?ay-/*ra?9y-/*r9?9y- “to see, to perceive”.
596. PN *riy-/*rey- “to prosper, to flourish, to thrive” > PIE *riy-C-/*rey-C- > ( *rlC-f) *reC-;
(*riy-V-/)* rey- V- “wealth, property, riches”; Affoasiatic: Semitic: Arabic ra'a (base ry ') “to
increase, to grow, to flourish, to thrive, to prosper”, ray' “yield, returns, proceeds, income,
interest, profit, share”.
597. PN *?ur-ub-/*?or-ub- “to separate, to set apart, to put asunder; to be separated, set apart,
abandoned” > PIE * <
ifiorb[h]-/* Tfirb[h]- “to separate, to set aside or apart; to be separated, set
apart, bereft”, *
TfiorbP1
]-o- “bereft, deprived of’; PAA * ?arab-/*Tarob-/* Torah-/* ?orab- “to
separate, to set apart, to set aside; to become separated, set apart”; PFU *orpa(s3)/*orwa(s3)
“orphan, orphaned” (Indo-European loan); PD *oruv- “to abandon; (n.) leaving, separation”.
598. PN *ram-l*r9m- “to stop, to rest, to relax” > PIE *rem-/*rom-/*rm- “to stop, to rest, to
relax”; PAA *ram-l*ram- “to stop, to rest, to relax”.
599. PN *raq ’-/*roq “to observe, to watch, to regard attentively; to supervise, to control” >
PIE *rek’-/*rok’- (lengthened-grade *rek’-/*rdk’-) “to observe, to watch, to watch for, to
care for”; PK *req’- “to drive (cattle)”; PAA *rak ’-/*rok “to observe, to watch, to regard
attentively; to supervise, to control”.
600. PN *rak[h]-/*r3k[h]- “to put together, to put in order, to arrange” > PIE *rek[h]-l
*rok[h]- “to put together, to put in order, to arrange”; PFU *rakk3- “to put together, to put in
order, to arrange”.
601. PN *ruw-/*row- “to cut, tear, or break apart” > PIE *rew-l*row-/*ru- “to cut, tear, or
break apart”; PFU *rowa- “to cut, to carve”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 205
8.2. New Etymologies
602. Proto-Nostratic *diy-l*dey- “to suck, to suckle”:
A. Proto-Indo-European *dp,
]e(i/y)-l*d[h]o(i/y)- “to suck, to suckle”: Sanskrit
dhayati “to suck, to drink”, (causative) dhapayate “to give suck, to nourish”,
dhiyas- “nourishing, refreshing”, dhenu-h “milk”, dhatrf “nurse”, dhayu-h
“voracious”, Ossetic dain,
dayun “to suck”; Greek OrjoOai “to suckle”, Or|>.d^ci) “to
suckle”, 0T|X.r| “teat, nipple”, 6f|X.uc, “female”, (Hesychius) 0f|vtov “milk”;
Armenian diem “to suck”; Albanian djathe “cheese”; Latin felo (also fello) “to
suckle, to suck'\femina “a female, a woman”, filia “daughter”, filius “son”; Old
Irish denaid “to suck”, dith “sucked”; Gothic daddjan “to suckle”; Old Swedish
dceggia “to suckle”; Old High German taen “to suckle”; Low German
(Westfalian) daiern “to raise on milk”; Old English deon “to suck”, delu “nipple
(of breast)”, diend “suckling”; Old Prussian dadan “milk”; Latvian deju, det “to
suck”, dels “son”; Old Church Slavic dojg, dojiti “to suckle; to milk”, detb
“child”, deva, device “maiden, young girl”; Serbo-Croatian dojiti “to suckle”,
dojka “breast”.
B. Proto-Kartvelian (reduplicated) *deda- “mother”: Old Georgian deday “mother”;
Mingrelian dida “mother”; Laz dida “old woman, grandmother”; Svan dede
“mother, grandmother”. Svan (unreduplicated) diya “mother, mom”.
C. Proto-Afroasiatic *day-l*doy- “teat, woman’s breast”: Proto-Semitic *dayd- (>
*dadd- in Hebrew and Aramaic) “teat, woman’s breast” > Arabic (Hadramut)
dayd “(married woman’s) breast; (cow’s) udder”; Hebrew dad “breast, teat,
nipple”; Aramaic dad “teat”; Ugaritic dd “breast”. Semantic development as in
Greek 0T|?t.f| “teat, nipple”, cited above.
Buck 1949:4.41 breast (of a woman); 5.16 suck (vb.).
603. Proto-Nostratic *k'ar-l*k'or- “dark, dark-colored; dirty, soiled”:
A. Proto-Indo-European *k’r-u-k’o-s, -eA [-aA] (> -a) “dirt, grime”: Greek
(Hesychius) “dirt in the nails”; Modem English (regional) crock “smut,
soot, dirt”; Latvian gruzis “dirt, smut; rubbish”. Mann (1984—1987:300)
*grugos, -a “dirt, grime”.
B. Afroasiatic: Egyptian qrm “smoke”, qrmt “ashes”, qrmts “darkness”, qrtt “dung”,
(Demotic) qrmts “darkness”; Coptic kromrm, krmrm “to become dark”, krmrom
“to be dark” (reduplication of korm “smoke”), kermi, krmes “ash, soot, dust”,
206 8. Common Nostratic Roots
krmts “smoke, mist; darkness, obscurity”, krom “fire”, korm “smoke”, keret,
ceret “dirt, dung”. The following Highland East Cushitic forms may belong here
as well, assuming semantic development as in Kannada kar “blackness, rainy
season” cited below: Buiji k'araar-i “rainy season”; Hadiyya k'araat'o “autumn,
fall, season of small rains”; Kambata karaa-tu “spring season”. Additional
Cushitic cognates are given in Dolgopolsky (1973:206—207).
Note: The Dravidian and Altaic forms given in Bomhard—Kerns (1994:429—430,
#274), are ambiguous and may belong here instead; they are as follows:
C. Proto-Dravidian * kar-, * kar-, * kar- “black, dark”: Tamil karu “to grow black, to
darken, to become dirty, to become impure, to mature”, karukaru “to become very
black”, karuppu “blackness, darkness, spot, taint, moral defect”, karu ( kari-) “to
be blackened”, karai “spot, stain, rust, blemish, fault, blackness, darkness”;
Malayalam kara “blackness, spot, stain, rust”, karu “black”, karukka “to grow
black”, karu “darkness, black cloud”; Kota karp “blackness, a demon”; Toda kar
“dirt, spot, rust”, karf- (kart-) “to become black, dark”; Kannada karanga “to turn
black”, kare, kari “blackness, to color black, stain, blot”, karrage, karrane
“blackly, blackness”; Kodagu kara- (karap-, karat-) “to become black”, karap'i
“blackness”, karate “black”, kare “stain”; Telugu kara “blackness, a stain, blot;
black”, kari “black”; Konda kari “blackness”, kar(i)ni “black”. Burrow
—
Emeneau (1984:130, no. 1395). Tamil Aar “blackness, blemish, defect”, karakam
“blackness”; Kannada kar, kadu “blackness, black”, kargu, kargu “black”; Tulu
kari, kali “blackish”; Manda karindi “black”; Kuwi kar- “to become black”, karia
“black”. Burrow—Emeneau (1984: 139, no. 1494). Tamil karu “black”, karukkal
“darkness, twilight, cloudiness, sunburnt paddy crop”, karukku (karukki-) “to
darken by heat, to bum, to scorch, to toast, to fry”, karuku (karuki-) “to be
scorched, blackened by fire or sun, to become dark in the evening”, karumai
“blackness”; Malayalam kari, karu “black; charcoal, coal”, karikkal, karukkal
“twilight, dusk, frying”, karima, karuma “blackness”, karimpu “dark color, gray”;
Kota kar “black”; Kannada karidu “black”, kargu “to turn black”, kare
“blackness”; Tulu kari “soot, charcoal”, kariya “black”; Koraga kardi “black”;
Telugu kaggu “to fade, to turn black (through heat, smoking)”; Naiki (of Chanda)
karan, karen, kareyan “black”. Burrow—Emeneau (1984:118, no. 1278[a]).
Tamil kar “blackness, darkness, cloud, rainy season”, kar “to darken, to grow
black”, kari “blackness, crow, black bull”; Kannada kar “blackness, rainy season”;
Tulu karu, kari “black, dark”; Gondi karial, karyal, kariyal, karial, karial, kareyal,
kari, karkal “black”. Burrow—Emeneau (1984:118—119, no. 1278[c]).
8. Common Nostratic Roots 207
D. Proto-Altaic *kara “black”: Mongolian qara “black, dark, obscure”; Moghol
qard “black”; Dagur xara, Xar “black”; Monguor xara “black”; Ordos xara
“black”; Buriat xara “black”; Khalkha xarn “black”; Kalmyk XarD “black”;
Turkish kara “black”; Turkmenian gara “black”; Tuvinian kara “black”; Yakut
Xara “black”; Chuvash xura “black”; Manchu qara “black (of animals)”.
Buck 1949:15.88 dirty, soiled.
On the other hand, the following should be added to #274, Proto-Nostratic *k[h]ar-/
*kP']or- “black, dark”:
B. Afroasiatic: Egyptian (Demotic) krky “filth”; Coptic corg(e), gergi “dirt, filth”,
r-corg “to become filthy”.
604. Proto-Nostratic *rak ’-/*rak “to wet, to moisten”:
A. Proto-Indo-European *rek'-/*rok’- “to wet, to moisten” ( *rek’-no
-
“rain”
apparently deglottalized to *rek-no- in Germanic *reg-na-z “rain”): Gothic rign
“rain”; Old Icelandic regn “rain”, regna, rigna “to rain”, raki “dampness,
wetness”, rakr “damp, wet”; Old English regn, ren “rain”, regnian “to rain”; Old
High German regan “rain”, reganon “to rain”. Perhaps also Latin rigo “to wet, to
moisten, to bedew” and Albanian rredh “to flow, to pour”.
B. Proto-Afroasiatic *rak’-/*rak’- “to sprinkle, to spray”: Proto-Semitic *rak’-
(*rak’-ah-, *rak’-ay-) “to sprinkle, to spray” > Geez / Ethiopic rakha “to sprinkle,
to spray”, rakaya “to sprinkle, to asperse, to sprinkle with holy water to drive out
demons, to cleanse with holy water”; Tigrinya rakaya “to sprinkle, to sprinkle
holy water (on a place or a person)”; Amharic raced “to sprinkle water”; Gurage
recca “to spray water, to sprinkle water”; Argobba racca “to sprinkle water”.
Buck 1949:1.75 rain; 15.83 wet, damp.
605. Proto-Nostratic *rat[h]-l*r3t\h]- “to turn, to roll; to run”:
A. Proto-Indo-European *ret[h]-/*rot[h]- “to turn, to roll; to run”: Sanskrit ratha-h
“chariot, especially a two-wheeled war-chariot; wagon, cart”; Avestan raOa-
“wagon, chariot”; Latin rota “wheel”, rotundas “round, circular”; Umbrian amb-
retuto “to walk around”; Old Irish roth “wheel”, rethid “to run, to flow”, riuth
“running”; Welsh rhod “wheel”, rhedaf“to run”; Old English rade, reed “swift”;
208 8. Common Nostratic Roots
Old High German rado, rato “quickly”; Lithuanian ratas “wheel”, ratai “cart,
vehicle”, ratelis “spinning-wheel”, ritii, risti “to roll”.
B. Proto-Afroasiatic *rat[h]-/*rot[h]- “to turn, to roll; to run”: Semitic: Arabic
rata 'a “to go away, to depart; to gallop with short steps”, rataka “to run with
short steps, to trot”. Proto-Southem Cushitic *rat- “to continue onward” > Ma’a
iritime/iratime “crossing, ford”; Dahalo rat- “to walk about”, rattid- “to continue
(something)”.
Buck 1949:10.46 run (vb.); 10.75 chariot, wagon, cart; 10.76 wheel.
606. Proto-Nostratic *was-/*wos- “to add (to), to augment, to increase, to heap up”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *wsr “to fill (up): Georgian vs-eba “to fill (up)”; Mingrelian
(p)s- “to fill (up)”; Zanps- “to fill (up)”; Svan li-gws-ile “to fill something”, gwesi
“full”.
B. Proto-Afroasiatic *was-/*wos- “to add (to), to augment, to increase, to heap up”:
Proto-Semitic *was- Cwas-akP1
]-, *was-ak’-) “to add (to), to augment, to
increase, to heap up” > Geez / Ethiopic wassaka “to add, to join to, to augment, to
supplement, to increase”; Tigrinya wassaka “to add”; Tigre wassaka “to add”;
Amharic wassaka “to add”; Arabic wasaka “to store, to heap up, to load freight”.
Buck 1949:13.21 full.
607. Proto-Nostratic *mar-/*mor- “to strive against, to oppose”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *marjlw- “to conquer, to vanquish, to defeat, to overcome”:
Georgian mar^v-eba “to conquer, to vanquish, to defeat, to overcome”;
Mingrelian mor^gv- “to conquer, to vanquish, to defeat, to overcome”, morjgvi,
mar3gvi “victory, success”; Svan li-mur^-i “to help somebody” (Georgian loan).
B. Proto-Afroasiatic *mar-/*mor- “to oppose, to contend with, to dispute”: Proto-
Semitic *mar-ad- “to revolt, to rebel, to assail, to attack” > Arabic marada “to be
refractory, recalcitrant, rebellious; to revolt, to rebel”; Epigraphic South Arabian
mrd “(warlike) incursion”; Hebrew marad “to rebel”, mered “rebellion, revolt”;
Syriac morad “to rebel, to escape, to resist, to prevail”; Geez / Ethiopic marrada
“to leap, to hasten, to walk fast, to run about, to rush in, to attack, to bother, to
annoy”, (with reduplication of third radical) mardada “to hasten”; Tigrinya
marrad “incursion, raid, pillage”; Amharic marrada “to hasten, to raid, to
pillage”. Proto-Semitic *mar-ay- “to argue, to rebel against, to contend with” >
8. Common Nostratic Roots 209
Arabic (base) mry “to wrangle, to argue, to dispute”; Hebrew marah “to be
contentious, refractory, rebellious”; Syriac mara “to contend with”.
C. Dravidian: Tamil maram “valor, braver)', anger, wrath, enmity, hatred, strength,
power, victory, war, killing, murder”, maral “hate, enmity, disagreement, fight,
war, death”, maralu (marali-) “to oppose, to give fight, to kill”, maravon
“warrior”; Malayalam maram “disagreement, war”, maral “death”.
Buck 1949:20.1 1 fight (vb.); 20.13 war; 20.41 victory.
608. Proto-Nostratic *dag-/*dag- “to put, to place, to set; to stand”:
A. Proto-Indo-European *d[h
Jeg[h
J-om-, *d[h
]g[
h]-om- “earth, ground; human
being”: Sanskrit ( *d[h
]gy[h]-om
-
> *dzham- > *dzham- > *tsam- >) ksam- “earth,
ground”; Greek xOcbv “earth, ground; a particular land or country”, yapai “on the
ground”; Albanian dhe “earth, land”; Latin humus “earth, ground, soil”, homo
“human being, man”; Gothic guma “man”; Old English guma “man, hero”; Old
Irish du “place”, duine “person”; Old Church Slavic zemlja “earth”; Old
Lithuanian zmud “human being, person”; Tocharian A tkam, B kem “earth,
ground”; Hittite te-(e-)kdn “earth, ground”, da-ga-(a-)an “to the ground”;
Hieroglyphic Luwian takami- “earth, land”; Luwian ti-ya-am-mi-is “earth”. The
unextended stem *d[h]og[h]- may possibly be preserved in Hittite (dat.-loc.) ta-ki-
ya as in ta-ki-ya ... ta-ki-ya “in this place ... in that place”, literally, “this one here
... that one there” (not, then, connected with da- “two” as suggested by Kronasser
1966:1, 210). Semantic development as in Svan gim “earth, land, soil” (see
below). According to Klimov (1991:332), the following Kartvelian forms
represent an early borrowing from Indo-European: Proto-Kartvelian *diywam ~
*diyom “black earth” > Georgian (dialectal) dil(l)yvam “black earth”, (toponym)
Diyom a region inside of Tbilisi, occupying the so-called “Dryomian Field”; Svan
diywam “black earth”.
B. Proto-Kartvelian *dg- “to stand”: Georgian dg-ldeg- “to stand”, dg-ma “to put, to
place, to set; to stand”, a-dg-il “place”; Mingrelian dg- “to stand”; Zan dg- “to
stand”; Svan li-gne “to stand”. Proto-Kartvelian *dgam-/*dgm- “to put, to place,
to set; to stand”: Georgian dgam-ldgm- “to put, to place, to set”; Mingrelian
dgum-, dgim- “to put, to place, to set”; Zan dgim- “to put, to place, to set”; Svan
li-gem “to stand”, gim “earth, land, soil”. Proto-Kartvelian *dg-in- “to put, to
place, to set”: Georgian dgin-ldgen- “to put, to place, to set”; Mingrelian dgin-
“to put, to place, to set”; Zan dgin- “to put, to place, to set”.
210 8. Common Nostratic Roots
C. Proto-Afroasiatic * dag-/*dog- “to put, to place, to set; to stand”: Semitic: Arabic
dagana “to remain, to stay, to abide; to get used to, to become accustomed to, to
become habituated; to become tame, domesticated”. Berber: Ahaggar edeh (pi.
ideggen) “place”; Zenaga ejgen “to put”. East Cushitic: Proto-Boni *deg- “to
settle down”.
D. Uralic: Proto-Ugrian *tay3 ( *tak3) “place, site” > (?) Ostyak / Xanty (Vah) tayi,
(Upper Demjanka) tayo, (Obdorsk) taxa “place, site”; (?) Hungarian taj “region,
tract, country, land”.
E. Sumerian dag “residence, dwelling-place”.
Buck 1949:1.21 earth, land; 12.1 1
place (sb.); 12.12 put (place, set, lay); 12.15 stand (vb.
intr.). This replaces etymology #81 . It should be noted here that Klimov (1991 :327 and
332) rejects the comparison of Proto-Kartvelian *tiqa “earth, clay” (Illic-Svityc writes
*diqa, as do Gamkrelidze—Ivanov 1984.11: 877) with Proto-Indo-European *dhghem-,
*dhghom- “earth, ground” as proposed by Illic-Svityc (1971— :I, 220, no. 69).
Meanwhile, etymology #81 should be rewritten as follows:
Proto-Nostratic *diq[h
J-/*deq[h
J- “to crush, to pound, to mold or knead (clay); (n.) earth,
clay, mud”:
A. Proto-Indo-European ( *dik[h
J- > [with progressive voicing assimilation] *dig[h
J-
>) *d[h]ig[h]- (secondary full-grades *d[h]eyg[h]-, *d[h]oyg[h
]-) “to pound, to
mold (clay), to knead (dough); (n.) clay”: Sanskrit dehmi “to smear, to anoint, to
plaster”, dehl “mound, bank, surrounding wall”; Avestan daeza- “wall (originally
made of clay or mud bricks)”; Greek xeixoq “a wall, especially a wall around a
city”, xotxoq “the wall of a house or court”; Latin (with n-infix) Jingo “to shape, to
fashion, to form, to mold”; figura “form, shape, figure, size”, figulus “a worker in
clay, a potter”; Oscan feihuss “walls”; Gothic digan “to knead, to form out of
clay”, daigs “dough”; Old Icelandic deig “dough”; Old English dag “dough”;
Lithuanian dyzti “to beat soundly”; Old Church Slavic zizdp, zbdati “to build”,
zbdb “wall”; Ukrainian diza “baker’s trough”; Armenian dizanem “to collect, to
put together”.
B. Proto-Kartvelian *diq[h
]a “earth, clay”: Old Georgian tiqa “earth, clay, mud”
(Modem Georgian tixa); Mingrelian dixa, dexa “soil, ground, earth”; Laz (n)dixa
“earth”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 2 1
1
C. Proto-Afroasiatic *dak[b]-/*d9k[h]- “to crush, to pulverize, to mix, to knead
(clay)”: Proto-Semitic *dak[h]-ak[h]- “to mix, to crush, to flatten” > Arabic
dakka “to make flat, level, or even; to smooth, to level, to ram, to stamp, to tamp
(earth, the ground, a road); to press down, to beat down, to weigh down; to
demolish, to devastate, to destroy, to ruin; to mix, to mingle; to be crushed, to be
leveled”, dakk “level ground; devastation, destruction, ruin”; Akkadian dakaku “to
crush”. Proto-Semitic *dak[h]-al- “to knead clay; to tread, to tread down” >
Arabic dakala “to knead clay; to tread, to tread down”, dakala-t “thin clay or
loam”. Proto-Semitic *dak[h]-aw/y- “to crush” > Hebrew da%ah “to crush, to be
crushed”. Proto-Semitic *dakp,
]-a?- “to crush” > Hebrew da%a
’
“to crush”,
dakka’ “dust (as pulverized)”. Proto-Semitic *da-wa-k[h
J- “to pound, to crush” >
Arabic daka “to grind, to pound”; Hebrew dux “to pound, to beat (in a mortar)”;
Akkadian daku “to kill”; Ugaritic dk “to pound, to mix”.
D. Dravidian: Konda tig- “to press down hard, to lay pressure on”; Pengo tig- (tikt-)
“to push”; Manda tig- “to push”.
E. (?) Sumerian dih “to press, to push”.
Buck 1949:1.214 mud; 5.54 knead; 5.56 grind; 7.27 wall; 9.73 clay. Fahnrich (1994:254)
compares Sumerian dih “(stone) slab for molding clay, stone” with the Kartvelian forms.
609. Proto-Nostratic *t[h
Jikp]-/*t[h]ek[h]- “to shine, to glow, to bum”:
A. Proto-Afroasiatic *t[h
JakP1
]-!*t[h]ak[h]- “to glow, to bum; to kindle, to ignite”:
Semitic: Geez / Ethiopic takkwasa “to ignite, to set on fire, to bum” (probably
from Amharic); Tigre taksa “to cauterize”; Tigrinya takkwasa “to bum, to brand
cattle”; Amharic takkwasa “to bum”; Gurage takdsa “to light a fire”. Egyptian tk
“to bum, to kindle”, tk
i
“torch, candle, flame; to illumine”, tktw “rite of torch
burning”; Coptic tok “to kindle (fire), to bake”, tik “spark”, intok “oven, furnace”,
toe “to bake”.
B. Dravidian: Tamil tikar “to shine (as diamonds), to glimmer (as stars), to be
brilliant”, tikarcci, tikarvu “brightness, luster, splendor”, tekar “to be manifest, to
shine”, tikaittu ( tikartti-) “to explain clearly, to make clear, to show clearly, to
beautify, to adorn”; Malayalam tikaruka “to shine”; Malto teqe “to shine, to
glow”.
Buck 1949:1.82 flame (sb.); 1.85 bum (vb.); 1.86 light (vb.), kindle; 5.24 bake; 5.25
oven; 15.56 shine.
212 8. Common Nostratic Roots
610. Proto-Nostratic *rag-/*rag- “to stir, to move, to shake”:
A. Proto-Indo-European *rog[h]- “to stir, to move”: Middle High German regen “to
stir, to move, to rouse”, rege “movement”; Swedish ragla “to toss, to sway”; Old
Irish raig “outburst”.
B. Proto-Afroasiatic * rag-1* rag- “to shake”: Proto-Semitic rag-apf1
J- “to stir, to
shake; to shake off, to make fall; to fall down” > Aramaic rayatp “to stir, to
shake”; Arabic ragafa “to agitate, to convulse, to shake; to tremble, to quake, to
be shaken”; Mehri hagruf “to shiver, to shiver with fever”; Jibbali crgjf “to
shiver”; Harsusi argof “to shake (with fever)”; Geez / Ethiopic ragafa “to fall to
the ground (fruit, leaves)”; Tigrinya ragafa “to fall down (fruit, leaves)”; Gurage
ragafa “to fall down (fruit, leaves)”; Harari ragafa “to fall to the ground (fruit,
leaves)”; Amharic raggafa “to fall to the ground (fruit, leaves)”; Argobba
(ar)raggafa “to shake”. Proto-Semitic rag-ag- “to shake, to quake, to tremble” >
Hebrew rayaz “to be agitated, to quake, to quiver; to be excited, perturbed”;
Phoenician rgz “to disturb”; Aramaic rayaz “to tremble, to rage”. Murtonen
(1989:393). Proto-Semitic rag-ag- “to quiver, to shake” > Arabic ragga “to
convulse, to shake, to rock, to tremble”; Mehri rattag “(ground) to quiver, to
shake”. Proto-Semitic (reduplicated) rag-rag- “to tremble, to quake, to sway” >
Arabic ragraga “to tremble, to quake, to sway”. Proto-Semitic rag-ad- “to
tremble” > Arabic ragada “to tremble”.
Buck 1949:10.23 fall (vb.); 10.26 shake (vb. tr.).
611. Proto-Nostratic *rum-/*rom- “to grow or become dark, to darken”:
A. Proto-Indo-European *remH-/*romH-l*rmH- “dark, dark-colored”: Sanskrit
rama-h “dark, dark-colored, black”, rand “darkness, night”, ritrl (< *rmH-)
“night, darkness or stillness of night”; Middle High German ram,
rom “dirt, soot”,
ramec, ramig “dirty, sooty”; Old English romei “sooty”.
B. Proto-Kartvelian *rum- “to grow or become dark, to darken”: Georgian rum- “to
grow or become dark, to darken”; Mingrelian rum- “to grow or become dark, to
darken”.
C. Proto-Finno-Ugrian *r[u]mke “dark”: Lapp raw'ke- “to wink (the eyes)”, (Lule)
ram'ka-, raw'M- “to wink”, ram'ko “closed (only of the eyes)”; Cheremis / Mari
(West) ram “twilight, dusk”, (East) rumbalge “twilight, dusk”; Votyak / Udmurt
8. Common Nostratic Roots 2 1
3
jomyt “twilight, dusk”; Zyrian / Komi romyd “twilight, dusk”; Ostyak / Xanty
rimok “dusk, twilight, dark, darkness”, rimokol “to get dusk, to get dark”.
Collinder (1977:124 [1960:413 *remke-])‘, Redei (1986—1988:747) *rvm3
“color”.
Buck 1949:1.62 darkness; 14.42 night; 15.63 dark (of color). Dolgolpolsky (1992:321,
no. 38).
612. Proto-Nostratic *waly-/*waly- “to be open, to be vacant; (n.) open space, open land, field,
meadow”:
A. Proto-Indo-European *wel- “field, meadow”: Hittite wellu- “meadow”; Greek
p?,6aiov “the Elysian fields”. Gamkrelidze—Ivanov (1984.11:824) * uel-
“meadow”.
B. Proto-Kartvelian *
wel- “field”: Georgian vel- “field”; Mingrelian ve(')- “field”.
C. Dravidian: Tamil veli “to be open or public; to be vacant, empty; (n.) outside,
open space, plain, space, intervening space, gap, room, openness, plainness,
publicity”, velippu “outside, open space, enclosed space”; Malayalam veli “open
field; notoriety; outside”; Telugu veli “the outside, exterior, excommunication;
outside, external”, velalu “to go or come out, to start”, velalucu “to send out”,
velupala “the outside, exterior; outside, external”, velladi “open place; publicity;
openness”, veliparacu, velipuccu “to make public or known”; Parji valip- (valit-)
“to expel, to drive away”; Konda veli “outside”.
D. Sumerian ul “field, cultivated land, meadow”, ul4 “field, meadow”, ulul “field,
meadow, open land, steppe”.
Buck 1949:1.23 plain, field.
613. Proto-Nostratic *k'wam-/*k’w3m- “to bum slowly, to smolder; to be hot, to be red-hot, to
be glowing; to smoke”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *k’wam-/*k’wm- “to smoke”: Georgian k’vem-a “to smoke”;
Mingrelian k’um- “to smoke”; Zan mk’om- “to smoke”; Svan k’wam- “to smoke”.
Proto-Kartvelian *k'waml- “smoke”: Georgian k’vamli “smoke”; Mingrelian
k’uma “smoke”; Lazk’oma “smoke”; Svan k'wdm “smoke, smut”.
B. Afroasiatic: Semitic: Akkadian kamu “to bum, to consume by fire”.
C. Uralic: Proto-Finno-Volgaic *kuma “hot, red-hot; fever” > Finnish kuuma “hot”,
kuume “fever”, kuumoitta- “to make hot, to heat”, kuumuus “heat”; Estonian kuum
214 8. Common Nostratic Roots
“hot, red-hot”, kuuma- “to be red-hot, to glow”, kuumata- “to make red-hot”;
Mordvin kumoka “fever”.
D. Dravidian: Tamil kumpu (kumpi-) “to become charred (as food when boiled with
insufficient fire)”, kumai “to be hot, sultry”; Malayalam kumpal “inward heat”,
kummu expression descriptive of heat, kumuruka, kumiruka “to be hot, close”,
kumural “oppressive heat”; Kannada kome “to begin to bum (as fire or anger)”;
Tulu gumulu “fire burning in embers”, gumuluni “to be hot, to feel hot (as in a fit
or fever)”; Telugu kummu “smoldering ashes”, kumulu “to smolder, to bum
slowly underneath without a flame, to be consumed inwardly, to grieve, to pine”;
Gondi kum “smoke”.
Buck 1949:1.83 smoke (sb.).
614. Proto-Nostratic *dur-/*dor- “sheep, ram”:
A. Kartvelian: Georgian dur-aq “yearly capricorn”.
B. Proto-Afroasiatic *dor- “sheep, ram”: Omotic: Wolaita (Beke) dursa, dorsa
“sheep”; Oyda duro, dorsa “sheep”; Basketo ddri “sheep”; Doko dori “sheep”;
Zayse dord “sheep”; Koyra doro “sheep”; She dor, doy “ram”. Chadic: Hina
duru(p) “a calf’; Mafa cfrok “ram”.
Buck 1949: 3.25 sheep; 3.26 ram.
615. Proto-Nostratic * dur-l*dor- “hole, opening”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *duro “hole, hollow”: Georgian duro “loop-hole”; Mingrelian
duru “hollow, depression, hole, pit”.
B. Proto-Dravidian *tor- “hollow, hole, cavity (in a tree)”: Kannada toralu, torale
“hole”, tore, dore “hollow, hole”; Telugu tora, torata, torra “hole, cavity (in a
tree)”; Gondi dora “hole (in a tree)”.
Buck 1949:12.85 hole. Blazek (1992a:115, no. 7 [note that, at 1992b: 130, Blazek also
compares Proto-Indo-European *dhur- “to pierce”, which is, indeed, quite possible; but
cf. Bomhard—Kerns 1994:323—324, no. 144, for an alternative proposal]).
616. Proto-Nostratic *?ab-/*?ob- “to be or become dry, to dry up, to dry out”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *abed- “tinder”: Georgian abed- “tinder”; Mingrelian obed-
“tinder”; Zan obed- “tinder”; Svan habod-, habed-, hobed- “tinder”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 215
B. Proto-Afroasiatic *?ab-/*?ob- “to be or become dry, to dry up, to dry out”:
Proto-Semitic *?ab-al- “to dry up, to dry out” > Akkadian abalu “to dry up, to dry
out”, ablu “dry, dried” (said, for example, of wood as in “dry [firejwood”);
Hebrew a/Jal “to dry up”. Egyptian ibl “to be thirsty”, lb “thirsty man”, lbt
“thirst”.
Buck 1949:5.15 thirst (sb.); 15.84 dry. Note: This etymology is an alternative to the one
proposed in Bomhard—Kerns (1994:525—526, no. 377).
617. Proto-Nostratic *?ib-l*?eb- “to lose (one’s way or one’s mind), to go astray”:
A. Proto-Afroasiatic *?ab-/*?ob- “to lose (one’s way or one’s mind), to go astray; to
be lost”: Proto-Semitic *?ab-ad- “to lose (one’s way or one’s mind), to go astray;
to be lost” > Arabic ’abada “to roam in a state of wildness, to run wild, to be
shy”; Hebrew ’a/tad “to perish, to vanish, to be lost”; Aramaic 'ofiad “to be lost”;
Ugaritic ’bd “perished”; Akkadian abatu “to destroy, to lay waste, to ruin”; Geez /
Ethiopic ’abda, ‘abda “to be insane, to become enraged, to rage, to be mad, to be
out of one’s mind, to become a fool, to be foolish”; Tigre ’abbada “to deceive”,
dbd “fool-hardy”; Tigrinya 'abbada “to entice with promises”, ‘abada “to go
mad, to become insane”; Amharic abbada “to go insane, to go mad”.
B. Dravidian: Tamil eppiraci, eppiyan “simpleton, fool”; Kannada ebrasi, ebada “a
foolish, silly man” (f. ebadi)\ Tulu ebulante “half-witted, silly”; Telugu ebberasi,
ebrasi “a slovenly person”. Semantic development as in Geez / Ethiopic 'abda,
‘abda “to be insane, to become enraged, to rage, to be mad, to be out of one’s
mind, to become a fool, to be foolish”.
Buck 1949:17.22 foolish, stupid; 17.23 insane, mad, crazy.
618. Proto-Nostratic *wan-/*wan- “to stay, to remain”:
A. Indo-European: Proto-Germanic *wunan “to dwell, to abide, to remain” > Old
Icelandic una “to dwell, to abide”; Old High German wonen “to dwell, to
remain”; Old Saxon wunon, wonon “to dwell, to remain”; Old English wunian “to
dwell, to remain”, wuna “habit, custom”; Old Frisian wonia, (w)unia “to dwell, to
remain”. Different from Proto-Indo-European *wen- “to desire” (see below, no
619).
B. Proto-Afroasiatic *wan-/*wan- “to stay, to remain”: Semitic: Arabic wanaka “to
dwell amongst”. Egyptian wnn “to be, to exist”; Coptic won “to be”.
216 8. Common Nostratic Roots
C. Sumerian unu, unu, unu7 “dwelling, residence; dwelling-place, place of
residence”.
Buck 1949:7.11 dwell; 9.91 be.
619. Proto-Nostratic *win-/*wen- “to strive for, to wish for, to desire”:
A. Proto-Indo-European * wen-1* won-!*wn- “to strive for, to wish for, to desire”:
Sanskrit vanati, vanoti “to like, to love, to wish, to desire; to gain, to acquire, to
procure; to conquer, to win, to become master of, to possess”, vanas- “longing,
desire”; Avestan vanaiti “to win, to strive for, to conquer”; Latin venus “charm,
loveliness, attractiveness; sexual love”, venor “a hunt”, venia “grace, indulgence,
favor”, veneror “to ask reverently, to beseech with awe; to revere, to respect, to
worship, to honor”; Old Irish fine “a family”; Gothic wens “hope”, winnan “to
suffer”, winna “passion”; Old Icelandic una “to be content”, vinr “friend”, yndi
“delight, happiness”, vcena “to give one hope”, van “hope, expectation”, vcenn
“fine, beautiful”, vinna “to work, to labor, to do work”, vinna “work, labor”,
vinningr “gain, profit”, ceskja “to wish”; Old English wynn “joy”, wine “friend”,
wenan “to hope, to expect”, wen, wenung “hope, expectation”, winnan “to toil, to
endure hardship, to suffer”, gewinnan “to gain, to acquire, to conquer, to take”,
winn “labor, effort, hardship”, wyscan “to wish”; Old Frisian wena “to hope, to
expect”, wen “opinion”, winna “to obtain”; Old Saxon wan “hope”, winnan “to
suffer, to win”; Old High German wan “opinion, hope”, gewinnan “to gain by
labor”, wunna “joy”, wunsken “to wish”.
B. Proto-Afroasiatic *wan-/*won- “to be pleasant, joyful”: Egyptian wnf “to be
joyful, to rejoice”; Coptic unof“\o rejoice”. Proto-Southern Cushitic *win- or
*wan- “nice, pleasant, comfortable” > Iraqw wanana “soft, gentle”, wan ’es- “to
soften”, wanana ’ut- “to be loose”; Dahalo wine “good, clean”. Semantic
development as in Old High German wunna “great joy, bliss” and Old English
wynn “joy, rapture, pleasure, delight, gladness”, wynsum “pleasant, delightful,
joyful, merry”.
C. Dravidian: Tamil ventu (vend-) “to want, to desire, to beg, to entreat, to request”,
ventiyavan “friend, well-wisher”, ven “desire”; Malayalam venam, ventum “it
must, ought, is desired”, ven “necessary”, venta “useful, required”; Kannada beta,
benta “longings, sexual passion, amorous pastime”; Telugu vedu “to pray, to beg,
to ask, to wish, to desire”, veduka “pleasure, joy, desire, wish, fun”.
Buck 1949:16.22 joy; 16.61 will, wish (vb.); 16.62 desire (vb.); 20.41 victory.
620. Proto-Nostratic *wan-/*wan- “share, portion, (period of) time”:
8. Common Nostratic Roots 2 1
7
A. Kartvelian: Svan (w)ona “time”.
B. Afroasiatic: Egyptian wnw-t “hour, time”; Coptic unu “hour”.
C. Dravidian: Kannada ontu, vantu, vanti “a turn, time”, ontu “share, portion”; Tulu
onti “a turn, time”, ontu “a turn, time; once”, ontige “a contribution”; Telugu
vantu “share, portion, a turn by rotation, a round”.
Buck 1949:14.11 time.
621 . Proto-Nostratic * wan-/* won- “first, first-bom, eldest”:
A. Afroasiatic: Proto-Highland East Cushitic *wanaa “first” > Buiji wanay “first-
born”, wanawwa “eldest sister”, wanay, wonay “eldest brother”; Kambata
wana(a) beetu “first-bom” (beetu = “child”), wanabii “first”.
B. Uralic: Proto-Finno-Permian *wansa “old” > Finnish vanha “old”, vanhemmat
“parents”; Estonian vana “old”; Votyak / Udmurt vuz “old”; Zyrian / Komi vaz
“old”. (?) Proto-Finno-Ugrian *wm3 “old” > Zyrian / Komi vener “old”;
Hungarian ven “old”.
C. Dravidian: Kolami vanna “brother’s wife”; Naikri vanna “older brother’s wife”;
(?) Konda oni “older brother’s wife, maternal uncle’s daughter (older than person
concerned)”; (?) Pengo oni “older brother’s wife”.
Buck 1949:13.34 first; 14.15 old.
622. Proto-Nostratic *p[h]ar-/*p[h]or- “to be fond of, to care for, to feel affection for; to be
pleased, happy, satisfied, or delighted with”:
A. Proto-Indo-European *p[h]reyH-/*p[h]royH-/*p[h]riH- (> *p[h]rT-) “to be fond
of, to care for, to feel affection for; to be pleased, happy, satisfied, or delighted
with”: Sanskrit prlniti “to please, to gladden, to delight, to gratify, to cheer, to
comfort, to soothe, to propitiate; to be pleased or satisfied with, to delight in, to
enjoy”, prfyate “to be pleased”, priyd-h “beloved, dear”, preman- “love, affection,
kindness, fondness”, preyas- “dearer, more agreeable; a lover, a dear friend” prJti-
h “pleasure, joy, gladness, satisfaction”; Avestan frinaiti “to love, to praise”, fryo
“dear”; Welsh rhydd “free”; Gothic freis “free”, frijei, frei-hals “freedom”, frijon
“love”, freidjan “to take care of\frijonds “friend”, friapwa “showing love”; Old
Icelandicfrjd “to love”, frjals “love”,frida “to adorn”, fridr “beautiful, handsome,
fine”, frcendi “kinsman”, frida “to pacify”, fridr “peace”, fridill “lover”; Old
English freo “free; noble; joyful”, freond “friend; relative; lover”, freod
“affection, friendship, good-will, peace”, freogan, frlgan “to free, to love”, freo
218 8. Common Nostratic Roots
“lady, woman”,friodu “peace”; Old High German vriten “to cherish”; Old Church
Slavic prejp, prijati “to be favorable”, prijatelh “friend”, prijaznh “love”; Latvian
prieks “joy”.
B. Proto-Afroasiatic *p[h]ar-l*p[h]or- “to be fond of, to care for, to feel affection
for; to be pleased, happy, satisfied, or delighted with”: Proto-Semitic *p[h]ar-ah-
“to be glad, happy, delighted; to rejoice” > Arabic fariha “to be glad, happy,
delighted; to rejoice; to be gay, merry, cheerful”, farah “joy, gladness, glee,
gaiety, hilarity, mirth, exhilaration, merriment, joy”, farha “joy”, farih, farih
“merry, gay, cheerful, joyful, glad, delighted, happy”; Mehri firoh “to be happy”,
forhat “happiness”, foroh “to make happy”; Jibbali firoh “to be happy, pleased”,
effrah “to make happy”, farh, forhat “happiness”; Harsusi fireh “to rejoice, to be
happy”, ferhet “happiness”, fireh “to make happy”. Berber: Tuareg ifrar “to be
good”. (?) Cushitic: perhaps Oromofira “relative” (> Burji fira “friend, relative”;
Gedeofira “relative”), assuming semantic development as in Old Icelandic frcendi
“kinsman” or Old Englishfreond “friend; relative; lover”, cited above.
C. Dravidian: pari “to be affectionate”, pari “love, affection”, parivu “affection,
love, devotion, piety, delight, pleasure”; Malayalam parivu “love”; Kannada
paraliga “paramour”; Telugu perima “love, affection”.
Buck 1949:16.27 love (sb.; vb.); 16.71 good (adj.).
623. Proto-Nostratic *fiat[h]-/*h stfi]- “to tear, split, or break apart”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *xt[h
Jkfi]- “to break, to burst, to split, to snap” (intr.): Georgian
xekt- “to break, to burst, to split, to snap” (intr.); Zan stik-, st’ik- “to break, to
burst, to split, to snap” (intr.).
B. Proto-Afroasiatic *hat[h]-/*hot[h
]- “to split or tear off or apart, to shatter, to
destroy”: Proto-Semitic *hatfij-atfij- “to split, break, or tear off or apart; to
shatter” > Arabic hatta “to wipe, to rub off; to peel, to shell; to strip leaves from a
branch; to fall off”, hitta “piece, bit, morsel”, (reduplicated in) hathata “to fall
off’, hutra “small piece, bit, morsel”; Jibbali hett “to gnaw (as, for example, a
mouse)”; Hebrew M9a6 “to be shattered, to be broken, to be dashed to pieces, to
be struck down; to be filled with terror”, mohittah “terror, destruction, ruin”.
(Leslau [1 989:248] also compares Geez / Ethiopic batata “to search, to search out,
to inquire, to question, to ask, to interrogate a witness, to investigate, to explore,
to examine, to beseech, to scrutinize, to discern, to adjudicate”, assuming
development from “to scrape, to break” to “to discern, to adjudicate” as in French
8. Common Nostratic Roots 219
trancher “to cut, to settle”.) Proto-Semitic *xat[h
J-ap[h
J- “to split, break, or tear
off or apart; to shatter” > Aramaic hodaip “to seize, to tear off’; Syriac ho8a<p “to
break, to shatter”; Hebrew hadacp “to seize, to snatch away”; Akkadian hatapu “to
slaughter”. Egyptian htm “to perish, to be destroyed (intr.); to destroy (tr.)”;
Coptic hotm “to perish”. Proto-Southem Cushitic *fiet- “to plunder” > Iraqw het-
, hit- “to destroy”, hitim- “to be stunted”.
Buck 1949:11.27 destroy.
624.
Proto-Nostratic *q 'ab-/*q 'ob- “jaw”:
A. Proto-Indo-European *k’eb[h]-/*k’ob[1,
J- “to munch, to chew; jaw”: Old Irish
gop (Modem Irish gob) “beak, mouth”; German Kebe “fish-gill”; Lithuanian
zebiu, zebeti “to munch”; Czech zabra “fish-gill”. The above Indo-European
forms should thus be removed from etymology no. 288 (Bomhard—Kems
1994:443—444), Proto-Nostratic *k’ab-/*k’ob- “to seize, to take hold of; to seize
with the teeth, to bite”.
B. Proto-Kartvelian *q 'ba- “jawbone”: Georgian q ’ba “jawbone”; Svan q ’ab, ha-
q ’ba “cheek”.
Buck 1949:4.207 jaw.
625.
Proto-Nostratic *q ’an-/*q ’on- “field, land, (open) country”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *q’ana- “(com-)field”: Georgian q’ana- “(com-)field, plowed
field” (in Old Georgian, q 'ana- means “earth”); Mingrelian ’vana- “(com-)field”;
Zan q 'ona-, ’ona-,jona- “(com-)field”.
B. Afroasiatic: (?) Egyptian qn used as a designation for plants in a field.
C. Uralic: Proto-Finno-Permian *kenta “field, meadow, pasture” > Finnish kentta
“field”; Lapp gied'de “meadow”; Votyak / Udmurt gid, gid “stall, barnyard”;
Zyrian / Komi gid “stall, stall for sheep, pigpen”.
D. Sumerian gan “field”, gan “planting, cultivation”, gana “field, land, country, area,
region”, gan-zi, gan-zi-da “cultivation, tillage”, gan-zisar “a plant”.
Buck 1949:1.23 plain, field; 8.12 field (for cultivation).
626.
Proto-Nostratic *k’an-/*k’on- “jaw, cheek”:
220 8. Common Nostratic Roots
A. Proto-Indo-European *k’en-u- “jaw, cheek”: Sanskrit (with secondary h- instead
of]-) hanu-h “jaw, cheek”; Avestan zanu- “jaw, chin”; Greek yevix; “jaw, cheek”,
yvdGoi; “the lower jaw”; Armenian cnaut “chin, jaw”; Latin gena “cheek, cheeks
and chin”, (pi.) genuae “jaws”; Old Irish gin, giun “mouth”; Welsh gen “cheek,
jaw”, genau “mouth”; Breton gen “cheek", genu, genaw “mouth"; Gothic kinnus
“cheek”; Old Icelandic kinn “cheek”; Old English cinn “chin”; Old Saxon kinni
“jaw, chin”; Old High German kinni “jaw, chin”, chinne “jaws”; Lithuanian
zandas “jaw”; Latvian zudds “chin, jaw”; Tocharian A (dual) sanw-e-m “jaws”.
B. Dravidian: Tamil kannam “cheek, ear”; Malayalam kannam “cheek, jaw”;
Kannada kanna “the upper cheek”.
Buck 1949:4.207 jaw; 4.208 cheek; 4.209 chin.
627. Proto-Nostratic *k’an-/*k’on- “to press together, to compress; to be pressed or crowded
together; to be thick, dense, fat, abundant, much”:
A. Proto-Indo-European ( *k’en-/*k’on-f)*k’n
-
“to press together, to compress”:
German kneifen “to pinch, to squeeze”, Knorr “knot”; Old Icelandic knappr
“knob”, kneppa “to press, to hug”, knia “to knock, to strike”, knoka “to knock, to
thump”, knosa “to bruise, to beat”, knoda “to knead”, knutr “knot”, knyja “to
knock, to press; to drive onward; to struggle on, to press on”, knykill “small knot,
protuberance”, knylla “to beat, to strike”, knyttr “knotted, crippled”, knottr “ball”;
Norwegian knast “knot”; Swedish knagg “knot”; Old English cnedan “to knead”,
cnotta “knot”, cnocian “to knock (at the door); to pound (in a mortar)”, cnossian
“to dash, to strike”, cniiwian “to pound (in a mortar)”, cnyssan “to beat against, to
dash against, to toss (storm.. .ship); to defeat, to crush (in battle), to overcome
(temptation); to oppress, to trouble, to afflict”; Middle English cnap “knob”, cnag
“knot, peg”, cnarre “knot”; Middle Dutch knolle “clod, ball”; Polish gnpbic “to
press, to squeeze”; Lithuanian gnybiu, gnybti “to pinch, to nip, to bite”. Two
different stems should be set up for Proto-Indo-European: (1) *k'(e)n- “to press
together, to compress” and (2) *k‘(e)n- “to bend; to bend or fold (together); to
crack, to split; to tie or bind together” (see below, replacement for etymology
#311). Several of the derivatives of these two stems overlap semantically.
B. Afroasiatic: Egyptian qn-w “much, many; very great”, qn, qny “to be or become
fat”, qn, qny “fat”; (reduplicated) qnqn “to beat, to pound up (medicaments), to
beat out, to flatten out”, qnqnyt “mallet” (?); Coptic knne, keni “to be fat, sweet”.
C. Dravidian: Tamil kana “to be heavy, stout, abundant”, kanam “thickness,
heaviness”, kanati “thickness, heaviness, gravity”, kanappu “being stout”, kanai
“to be crowded, intense”, kanai “density, abundance”, kanaivu “closeness,
thickness”, kanai (kanalv-, kananr-) “to be close, crowded, densely packed”;
8. Common Nostratic Roots 221
Malayalam kanam “compact, hard”, kanakka “to become solid, hard, heavy”;
Toda ken “densely (of shade)(in songs)”. The Dravidian forms are phonologically
ambiguous and may go here instead of with etymology #313 (Bomhard—Kerns
1994:468), Proto-Nostratic *gwan-l*gwan- “to swell, to abound”.
Buck 1949:9.192 knot (sb.); 12.63 thick (in dimension); 12.64 thick (in density); 13.15
much; many.
628. Proto-Nostratic *k ’an-l*k ’an- “to complete, to finish”:
A. Afroasiatic: Egyptian qn “to finish, to complete, to accomplish”; Coptic ken “to
cease, to finish”.
B. Sumerian gan “to complete, to finish”.
Buck 1949:14.27 finish (vb.).
629. Proto-Nostratic *q ’in-/*q 'en- “to freeze, to be or become cold”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *q ’in- “to freeze”: Georgian q 'in- “to freeze”; Mingrelian ’in-
“to freeze”; Laz q ’in- “to freeze”; Svan q ’gan-, q ’agn- “to freeze”.
B. Afroasiatic: East Cushitic: Somali qandood- “to shiver”. Proto-Southern
Cushitic *k ’ant '- “chill, chilliness” > Alagwa qantsa “rainy season”.
C. Dravidian: Kolami kinani, kinam “cold”, Gondi kinan, land “cold”, kinnan “wet,
cool”, kinnlta “cold”.
Buck 1949: 15.86 cold.
630. Proto-Nostratic *gin-/*gen- “to be young, small, weak”:
A. Afroasiatic: Egyptian gnn “to be weak, soft”, gnnwt “weakness” (?); Coptic cnon
“to become soft, smooth, weak”.
B. Dravidian: Toda kin “small”; Kannada kirjkini berafu “little finger”; Kodagu
kinne “boy”; Tulu kinni “small, young; the young of an animal, smallness”,
kinyavu “the young of an animal, a little thing”, kinyappe “mother’s younger
sister”, kinyamme “father’s younger brother”, kinkana, kinkana “a little”, kinuru,
kinaru, kinalu“a bit, trifle”; Koraga kinnige “younger one”, kinyo “small”.
C. Sumerian gen “small”, genna “child”, genna “young, small”, gina “heir, child,
son”, gina “small, weak”, ginna “child”. (Sumerian loan-word in Akkadian ginu
“infant, child”.)
222 8. Common Nostratic Roots
Buck 1949:4.82 weak; 12.56 small, little; 14.14 young.
63 1
.
Proto-Nostratic *ban-l*bon- “to pour, to sprinkle, to drip”:
A. Indo-European: Middle Cornish banne, banna “a drop”; Breton banne (Treguier
bannec '
h
) “a drop”. Not related to Sanskrit bindu-h (vindu-h) “a drop, globule,
spot” (cf. Mayrhofer 1956—1980.11:430—431).
B. Proto-Kartvelian *ban- “to wash, to wash oneself’: Georgian ban-a “to wash”;
Mingrelian bon- “to wash”; Zan (m)bon- “to wash”; Svan li-br-al “to wash
oneself’, li-br-ali “to wash somebody, something”, li-bar “to wash (hands or
face)”.
C. Afroasiatic: Egyptian bnn “to overflow”, bnbn “to flow, to run”.
D. Dravidian: Tamil pani “to be bedewed, to flow out, to be shed, to rain
incessantly, to become cool, to shiver with cold, to tremble, to fear, to spring forth
(as tears)”, pani “dew, chill, cold, tears, rain, mist, fog, haze, trembling, fear”,
panittal “incessant rain”, panukku (panukki-) “to sprinkle, to moisten by
sprinkling”; Malayalam pani “dew, fever”; panekka “to ooze”; Toda pony “dew”;
Kannada pani, hani “to drop; (n.) a drop (of water, dew, etc.)”, haniku “to fall in
drops”, hanisu, hanisu “to pour (as water)”; Kodagu pann- (panni-) “to drizzle”;
Tulu pani “drizzling rain”, pani “dew, fog, mist, snow”, panipuni, panipuni “to
drizzle, to shower”.
Buck 1949:9.36 wash.
632.
Proto-Nostratic *?dh-/*?oh- “cow”:
A. Proto-Afroasiatic *?ah-/*?3h- “cow”: Semitic: Ethiopic / Geez ’aha, ’aha
“cattle, cows”; Tigre ’aha “cattle”; Tigrinya ’aha “cattle”. Egyptian ih “bull”, iht
“cow”; Coptic ehe “ox, cow”.
B. Dravidian: Tamil a, an “female of ox”, ayan “herdsman”; Malayalam a, an “cow”,
ayan “cowherd”; Kota a v “cow”; Kannada a, avu “cow”; Telugu avu “cow”;
Kurux oy “cow”; Malta dyu “cow, ox”.
Buck 1949:3.20 cattle; 3.21 bull; 3.22 ox; 3.23 cow.
633.
Proto-Nostratic *c[hjdh-/*c[hj3h- “to crush, to pound, to grind, to beat”:
8. Common Nostratic Roots 223
A. Proto-Kartvelian *c[h],ex- “to pound, to crush; to stir, to mix”, *(s)a- c[hJ,exw-el-
“mortar”: Georgian cex-va “to thresh”; Mingrelian cax(v)- “to stir, to mix”; Zan
cax(v)- “to chum (butter)”, cxvar- “to thresh”.
B. Proto-Afroasiatic *c[h]dh-l*c[h]ah- “to cmsh, to pound, to grind, to beat”: Proto-
Semitic *c[h]ah- (extended forms: *c[h]dh-ak’-, *c[hJah-an-, *c[h]ah-al-,
*c[hJah-ag-, *c[h]ah-ak[h
]-, *c[h]ah-aw/y-, *c[hJdh-at[b
]-) “to cmsh, to pound,
to grind” > Arabic sahaka “to cmsh, to pound, to braise, to pulverize; to
annihilate, to wipe out, to wear out”, sahik “crashing”, sahana “to crash, to
pound, to braise, to grind; to smooth by rubbing”, sahala “to scrape off, to shave
off, to peel; to smooth, to make smooth, to plane, to file”, sahala “filings, file
dust”, sahaga “to scrape off, to shave off, to rub off; to graze, to abrade, to strip
off’, sahata “to extirpate, to annihilate, to root out”; Sabaean sht “to destroy”;
Harsusi sehak “to crash, to grind fine”, sehal “to grind (a knife), to scratch”;
Jibbali shak “to crash, to grind fine”, shal “to scratch, to grind (a knife)”; Mehri
sahak “to crash, to mill, to grind fine”, sahal “to scratch, to grind (a knife)”;
Ethiopic / Geez sahala “to sharpen”; Tigrinya sahala “to sharpen”; Tigre sahla
“to sharpen”; Amharic said “to sharpen”; Gurage sala “razor made locally”;
Akkadian salcu “to pound, to crash”; Hebrew sahah “to scrape”. (The Ethiopian
forms may be loans from Arabic [cf. Leslau 1979.111:542].) Egyptian shm “to
crash, to pound”. Faulkner 1962:238; Erman-Grapow 1921:167. Berber: Kabyle
ceqq (< *c[h]ah-ak'-) “to split; to be split, cracked”.
C. Dravidian: Tamil cattu (catti-) “to beat, to thrash; (n.) beating, thrashing”; Kota
ca t- (caty-) “to give a blow, to beat”.
D. Sumerian sahar “dust, sand, earth”.
Buck 1949:1.213 dust; 1.215 sand; 5.17 mix; 5.56 grind; 9.21 strike (hit, beat); 9.27 split
(vb. tr.); 9.31 rub.
634. Proto-Nostratic *?ah-/*?ah- “young, tender; youth, young man, younger brother”:
A. Kartvelian: Georgian axali “young, new, fresh”; Svan m-ax-e “new”, m-ax-and
“anew, again”, m-ax-eywaz “a brave man, a youth”.
B. Proto-Afroasiatic *?dh-/*?ah- “young, tender; youth, young man, younger
brother”: Proto-Semitic *?ax- “brother, companion, friend” > Hebrew ah
224 8. Common Nostratic Roots
“brother, relative”; Syriac 'aha “brother, friend, companion, associate”; Ugaritic
ah “brother”; Phoenician ’h “brother”; Eblaite a-hu-um “brother”; Akkadian ahu
“brother, colleague, associate”; Arabic 'ah, ’ahu “brother, companion, friend”;
Sabaean ’h, 'hw “brother”; Mehri ga “brother”; Soqotri ’3 ‘hi “brother”; Jibbali
’aga “brother”; Harsusi ga(h) “brother”; Ethiopic / Geez 'ahaw, ’ah w “brother,
blood relation, kinsman”; Tigre hu “brother”; Tigrinya haw “brother”; Argobba
ah “brother”; Harari ah “younger brother”. Perhaps Egyptian ihw “weakness”,
ihwn “youth, boy”, hwn (< */hwn ?) “child, young man”, hwn-t (< *fhwn-t ?)
“maiden, girl”, hwn (< *ihwn ?) “to be rejuvenated, refreshed”, hwn (< *ihwn ?)
“youthful vigor”. West Chadic *?ah(ya)- “uncle; brother” > Kulere ahy- “uncle”;
Waijiyato- “brother” (according to Orel—Stolbova [1995:7], Warji initial ya- is
due to the influence of the second syllable). Central Chadic *?ay- “son” > Musgu
ah! “son”. For the semantics, cf. Tamil ila, ilam, ilai “young, tender”, ilaimai
“youth”, Hainan “younger brother, lad, young man”; Malayalam ila “tender,
young, weak”, ijama “youth, tender age”, ifayavan “young, younger”; (?) Brahui
Hum “brother”.
Buck 1949:2.44 brother; 14.13 new; 14.14 young.
635. Proto-Nostratic *ban-/*ban- “to separate, to open”:
A. Proto-Afroasiatic * ban-/* ban- “to separate, to open”: Proto-East Cushitic *ban-
“to separate, to open” > Somali ban, ban-n-aan “plain, plateau”, (causative) ban-
n-ay- “to make room”; Bayso ban- “to open”; Oromo ban- “to open”; Konso pan-
“to open”; Gidole pan- “to spread the legs”; Hadiyya ban- “to separate, to
distinguish”; Gedeo ban- “to open”, ban-em- “to be open”, (adj.) ban-ema “open”;
perhaps Buiji ban- “to chase away”, ban-<f— ban-’- “to put to flight, to be
defeated”, ban- ’-a “defeat”, bancf-am- “to lose, to be defeated”. West Chadic
*ban- “to open, to uncover” > Hausa banye “to open, to uncover”. Central Chadic
*ban-H-/*byan-H- “to open” > Mofu bap, berj “to open”.
B. Uralic: Proto-Finno-Ugrian *pance- “to open” > Mordvin (Erza) panzo- “to
open”, (Moksha) pahze- “to open”; Cheremis / Mari (Birsk) poca- “to open”,
(Kozmodemjansk) paca-, (Urzum) poca-\ Ostyak / Xanty punc- “to open”; Vogul
/ Mansi (Tavda) poons- “to open”, (Lower Konda) puuns-, (Pelymka) puns-,
(Sosva) puuns-, (?) Lapp (Lule) (pred.) buog'got, (attr.) buoggos “naked”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 225
C. (?) Sumerian ban “to choose, to select, to pick out” (?), assuming semanitics as in
Kui aska (aski-) “to separate from, to choose, to weed out, to select” (cf.
Burrow—Emeneau 1984:33—34, no. 363).
Buck 1949:12.23 separate (vb.); 12.24 open (vb.).
636. Proto-Nostratic *b[u]gar-1* b[uJgor- “to make a sound, to make a noise”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *bger- “to make a sound”: Old Georgian bger- “to ring, to make
a sound”; Mingrelian ngar-, gar- “to weep, to cry”; Zan bgar-, mgar- “to weep, to
cry”.
B. Afroasiatic: Egyptian bgiw “moan, cry, weeping, lamentation, sighing, groaning”.
C. (?) Dravidian: Iruja bugari, bugiriya “large bamboo flute”; Alu Kurumba buguri
“bamboo flute”; Palu Kurumba bugiri “bamboo flute”; Kota bugi r “flute”; Toda
puxury “Toda flute”; Kannada buguri “Toda flute”.
Buck 1949:16.37 cry, weep.
637. Proto-Nostratic *bad-/*bod- “to totter, to waver, to be ready to fall; to become weak,
tired, exhausted”:
A. Proto-Affoasiatic *bad-/*bod- “to perish, to decay, to weaken; to become weak,
tired, exhausted”: Semitic: Ethiopic / Geez (reduplicated) badbada “to perish, to
disappear, to decay, to weaken, to get sick, to die, to get rusty”. Egyptian bds “to
become faint, weak, exhausted”, bdst “weakness”. Highland East Cushitic:
Sidamo badar- “to tire, to become tired”.
B. Dravidian: Tamil patu (patuv-, patt-) “to perish, to die, to set (as a heavenly
body), to rain”, patu (-pp-, -tt-) “to lay horizontally, to pave, to spread out (as
bedding), to kill, to cast down, to fell, to lie down to sleep”, patu “base, low”,
patai “bed, layer, stratum”, patu “lying prostrate, fall, sleep, death, ruin, loss,
disaster”; Kota par- (pat-) “to lie down, to sleep”; Kannada padu (patt-) “to lie
down, to set (as the sun), to be spent (as the day), to have sexual intercourse, to
die”, patt “downfall, ruin”; Kodagu pad- (paduv-, patt-) “to lie fallow”; Telugu
padu “to fall, to lie, to recline, to sleep”; Naiki par- (patt-) “to fall”, parp- “to
make to part- “to fell (a tree)”; Parji pad- (patt-) “to fall, to sink down, to set
(sun)”.
Buck 1949:4.82 weak; 10.23 fall (vb.).
226 8. Common Nostratic Roots
638. Proto-Nostratic *bad-/*bod- “hunger”:
A. Indo-European: Lithuanian badas “hunger, starvation”; Latvian bads “hunger”.
B. Dravidian: Tamil pattini “fasting, abstinence, starvation”; Malayalam pattini,
pattini “privation of food, starvation”; Kota patuny “hunger”; Kodagu pattani
“starvation”.
Buck 1949:5.14 hunger (sb.).
639. Proto-Nostratic *bit’y-/*bet'y- “to press between the fingers, to squeeze, to crush”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *bic’- “to break, to crumble”: Old Georgian bid’- “to crumble”;
Svan li-bec’k’w “to break (apart), to burst”, li-bc’k’we “to split something”.
B. Dravidian: Tamil picai “to work with the thumb and fingers in mixing, to knead,
to squeeze or mash between the palms, to crush and separate (as kernels of grain
from the ear), to rub or apply on the skin, to strike against one another (as
branches in the wind)”, picakku (picakki-) “to press between the fingers, to
squeeze, to crush”, picaru (picari-) “to mingle, to mix with the hand”; Kota pick-
0vicky-) “to squeeze, to pinch”; Kannada pisuku “to squeeze, to press (as a fruit),
to knead, to shampoo”, hisi “to squeeze (a ripe fruit) so as nearly to separate it
into two pieces”; Tuju piskuni, pTsuni “to squeeze, to press”; Koraga pijapki “to
crush”; Telugu pisuku “to squeeze, to press, to knead, to shampoo, to handle”;
Naiki pijg- “to knead”; Parji pTk- “to crush”; Gadba (Ollari) piskolp- (piskolt-) “to
squeeze”; Gondi piskana “to knead flour”; Pengo pic- (pTcc-) “to squeeze, to
milk”; Kui pic- “to press, to squeeze, to milk”; Kurux picka’ana “to press and
bruise, to flatten by crushing”.
C. Sumerian biz “to press or squeeze out (oil)”.
Buck 1949:9.342 press (vb.).
640. Proto-Nostratic *p[h
Jit ’y-/*p[h
Jet ’y-
“testicle(s)”:
A. Afroasiatic: Central Chadic *picur-in- “testicles” > Fali Jilvi Jcerin “testicles”;
Fali Mubi fucuru “testicles”. Orel—Stolbova 1995:70, no. 279, *bicur-/*picur-
“pudenda” (according to Orel—Stolbova, the original Central Chadic stem seems
to have been *picur-). The Semitic material cited by Orel—Stolbova is too
divergent phonetically and semantically to be related to the Chadic forms. On the
8. Common Nostratic Roots 227
other hand, though not without problems of their own, the following may belong
here: Arabic faza,fazan “womb”; Egyptian pzdd “testicles (of the god Seth)”.
B. Dravidian: Tulu picci “the testicles of an animal”; Telugu picca “testicle”.
Buck 1949:4.47 womb; 4.49 testicle.
641 . Proto-Nostratic *c ’am-/*c 'am- “reed, grass”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *c ',em- “reed, grass”: Georgian ler-c 'am- “rush, reed”, c 'amali
“medicine”; Mingrelian (r)c'em- “pubic hair”; Zan (njc’am- “medicine”; Svan
c 'em “hay”.
B. Afroasiatic: Egyptian dm' “papyrus (book), papyrus (sheet or roll)”; Coptic
goome “sheet, roll of papyrus, written document, book”.
C. Dravidian: Tamil campu “elephant grass”; Kannada jambu “a kind of reed or
sedge”; Telugujambu “a bulrush, sedge”.
Buck 1949:8.51 grass; 8.52 hay.
642. Proto-Nostratic *dud-l*dod- “tip, point”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *dud- “tip, point”: Georgian dud- “tip, point; comb, crest (of a
bird)”; Mingrelian dud- “head”; Zan dud- “crown, top of the head; top, summit,
peak; tip, point”; Svan dudul “breast, nipple”.
B. Dravidian: Tamil tup “lip”; Malayalam cop “lip”; Kota tuc “lip”; Kannada tup,
todi “lip”; Tulu dudi “lip, snout of an animal”; Koraga tondi “lip”; Gondi top
“lip”; toddl “mouth, face”; Kui toda “lip”; Malto toro “mouth”, toto “beak”.
(Semantic development from “beak, snout” to “mouth” to “lip” as in Czech ret
“lip” in view of Russian rot “mouth”, Serbo-Croatian rt “promontory”, and Old
Church Slavic n,fb “peak”.) Malayalam tottu “nipple”; Kannada topu “nipple,
point”; Tulu tottu “nipple of a breast”. (Semantic development as in Svan dudul
“breast, nipple”.)
Buck 1949:4.24 mouth; 4.25 lip.
643.
Proto-Nostratic *daq[h]-l*daq[h]- “sheep, ram, goat”:
228 8. Common Nostratic Roots
A. Proto-Kartvelian *daq[h]- “goat” (> *dq[h
J- in Georgian, Mingrelian, and Laz
through syncope; final -a in these languages is suffixal): Georgian txa “goat”;
Mingrelian txa “goat”; Laz (m)txa “goat”; Svan daqol “goat”.
B. Dravidian: Tamil takar “sheep, ram, goat, male of certain other animals (yali,
elephant, shark)”; Malayalam takaran “huge, powerful (as a man, bear, etc.)”;
Kannada tagar, tagaru, tagara, tegaru “ram”; Tulu tagaru, tagaru “ram”; Telugu
tagaramu, tagaru “ram”.
Buck 1949:3.25 sheep; 3.26 ram; 3.36 goat.
644. Proto-Nostratic * cat’r-l* Got’y- “to bite, to chew”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *Gec’- “to chew”: Georgian yec’- “to chew”; Mingrelian yac’-
“to chew”. Klimov 1964:202 *yec-.
B. Affoasiatic: Semitic: Akkadian gasasu “to gnash the teeth, to bare the teeth, to
rage”.
C. Dravidian: Tamil kaccu (kacci-) “to bite, to gnaw, to nibble (nursery)”; Toda koc-
( koc-) “to bite”; Kannada kaccu, karcu “to bite, to sting, to smart, to ache (as
stomach)”, kaccike “biting”; Tulu kaccuni “to bite”; Kolami kacc- “to bite”; Paiji
kacc- “to bite, to sting”; Gadba (Ollari) kas- “to bite”, (Salur) kacc- “to sting”;
Gondi kask- “to bite”, kaccana “to gnash the teeth”, kac-, kas- “to bite”; Kui kasa
(kasi-) “to bite, to sting”; Kuwi kacc- “to bite”; Malto qaswe “to eat greedily, to
nip off with the teeth”.
Buck 1949:4.58 bite (vb.).
645. Proto-Nostratic *Git '-/*Get
'-
“armpit; to tickle”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *Git 'in- “to tickle”: Georgian yit’in- “to tickle”; Mingrelian
xicin- “to tickle”; Zan xit’in- “to tickle”. Klimov 1964:204 *yitin-.
B. Dravidian: Tulu kidukilu, kid(u)kelu, kidkulu “armpit, tickling”, k. apini “to be
tickled”, k. maduni “to tickle”; Manda kiti ki- “to tickle”; Kui kitki lomberi, klti
kola “armpit”, klti “tickling”, klti ava “to be tickled”, klti giva “to tickle”,
kitkorodi “armpit”; Kuwi gidori Mali “to tickle”, gitori kSnai “to titillate”.
646.
Proto-Nostratic *k’ud-/*k’od- “to strike, to beat”:
8. Common Nostratic Roots 229
A. Proto-Kartvelian *k'od- “to hew, to chop, to hack”: Georgian k’od-va “to
castrate, to hew, to chop, to hack”; Mingrelian [k 'od-] “to hew, to chop, to hack”;
Zan [k’od-] “to hew, to chop, to hack”. Proto-Kartvelian *k’od-al- “woodpecker”:
Georgian k’od-ala “wood-pecker”; Mingrelian k’odo-, k’id-u “woodpecker”; Zan
k 'id-i, (m)k ’ud “woodpecker”.
B. Proto-Afroasiatic *k'ad-/*k'od- “to strike”: Central Chadic *kacf- { < *k’ad-) “to
strike” > Gisiga katf, kid “to strike”; Mofu -kdd
-
“to strike, to kill”; Mafa kad-
“to strike”; Muktele kodai “to kill”. East Chadic *kawad- (< *k’a/wa/d-) “to
strike” > Migama koodo “to strike”. Cushitic: Beja / Bedawye kadaw (< *k’ad-)
“to strike”. Orel—Stolbova 1995:334, no. 1535, *kad-/*kawad- “to strike”;
Jungraithmayr—Ibiszimow 1994.1:7 *kd “to beat” (= “to kill”), 11:15, 213.
C. Dravidian: Tamil kuttu {kutti-) “to cuff, to strike with the knuckles on the head or
temple”; Malayalam kuttuka “to pound, to cuff’; Kota kut- {kuc-) “to pound”;
Toda kut- {kuty-) “to knock, to pound”; Kannada kuttu “to beat, to strike, to
pound, to bruise”, kuttu “a blow, a pulverized substance”, kuttuvike, kuttuha
“beating”; Kodagu kutt- {kutti-) “to pound”; Tulu kuttuni “to thump, to give a
blow, to strike with the fist, to pound, to bruise”; Kolami kudk- {kudukt-) “to
pound grain”, kudkeng “to knock on the door”; Naiki kurk- “to pound, to knock”;
Paiji kutip- {kutit-) “to punch, to knock (door)”; Konda gut- “to knock with the
fist”; Kui gut- “fist”. (Note: these forms should be removed from etymology no.
342, Proto-Nostratic *k’wud-/*k’wod- “to strike, to wound, to hurt, to slay”, which
should, perhaps, be rewritten as *k’wad-/*k’wod-). Tamil kottu (kotti-) “to beat (as
a drum, tambourine), to hammer, to beat (as a brazier), to clap, to strike with the
palms, to pound (as paddy)”, kottu “beat, stroke, drumbeat, time-measure”, kottan,
kottan “mallet”, kotu “to thrash, to abuse roundly”, kotai “blows, round abuse”;
Malayalam kottuka “to beat so as to produce a sound (as drum, metals, bells), to
clap hands”, kottu “beating a drum, clapping hands, buffet, knocking of knees
against each other”, kotti “mallet”, kotukka “to flog”; Kota kotk- (kotky-) “to strike
(with small hammer), knock on (door), to strike tipcat in hole in ground”; Toda
kwitk- {kw'itky-) “to tap (on door, something with stick)”, kwit fif “woodpecker”;
Kannada kodati, kodanti “a wooden hammer”, kottana “beating the husk from
paddy”, kottuha “beating”, kudu “to beat”; Kodagu kott- {kotti-) “to tap, to beat
(drum)”; Tulu kodapuni “to forge, to hammer”; Telugu kottu “to beat, to strike, to
knock; to strike (as a clock)”, kottu “a blow, stroke”; Paiji kott- “to strike with an
ax”; Gadba (Ollari) kot- “to strike with an ax”; Gondi kot- “to cut with an ax”,
230 8. Common Nostratic Roots
kotela “mallet”; Pengo kot- “to thresh with flail”; Kuwi kotoli “mallet”; Kurux
xottrn (xottyas) “to break, to smash, to pierce, to break open”; Malto qote “to
break, to knock, to strike”, qoture “to knock, to dash against”.
Buck 1949:9.21 strike (hit, beat).
647. Proto-Nostratic *k'ud-/*k’od- “vessel, pot”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *k’od- “vessel, carved from a single of piece of wood”:
Georgian k’od- “vessel used for dry measures”; Mingrelian k'od- “vessel, carved
from a single of piece of wood”; Zan k'od- “vessel used for dry measures”.
Klimov 1964:1 14 *kod-.
B. Proto-Afroasiatic *k’ad-/*k’ad- “vessel, pot”: Proto-Semitic *k'ad-ah- “vessel” >
Arabic kadah “drinking bowl, (drinking) cup, goblet, glass, tumbler, tea glass;
keddah, a dry measure”; Sabaean m-kdh(m, n) “cup”; Ethiopic / Geez kadho “well
bucket”, ma-kdaht “jar, jug, bucket”. Lowland East Cushitic *k’adad- “vessel,
gourd” > Oromo k'adaada “vessel, gourd”. Orel—Stolbova 1995:334, no. 1534,
*kad- “vessel”. Egyptian qd “pot”. Lowland East Cushitic *k 'od- “receptacle” >
Oromo k’odaa “receptacle”. Southern Cushitic: Dahalo k’oodo “a kind of
calabash”. West Chadic *kwacf- (< *k’wad-) “calabash” > Kirfi kdcfd “calabash”
(Orel—Stolbova 1995:343 write kwado)\ Gera kwacfa “calabash”; Siri k’ati
“calabash”. Central Chadic (with prefix *nV-) *nV-k’wad- “bottle” > Logone /?-
kooda “bottle”. East Chadic *kwacf- (< *k’wad-) “pot” > Dangla kocfa “pot”.
Orel—Stolbova 1995:343, no. 1579, *kod- “vessel”; Jungraithmayr—Ibiszimow
1994.1:25 *k’wd/*kwcf “calabash”, II: 56.
C. Dravidian: (a) Tamil kutam “waterpot, hub of a wheel”, kutankar “waterpot”,
kutantam “pot”, kutukkai “coconut or other hard shell used as a vessel, pitcher”,
kutikai “ascetic’s pitcher”, kutuvai “vessel with a small narrow mouth, pitcher of
an ascetic”; Malayalam kutam “waterpot”, kutukka “shells (as of gourds) used as
vessels, small cooking vessel with a narrow mouth”, kutuka, kutuva “small
vessel”; Kota kopn “waterpot with a small mouth”; Toda kurky “small pot”;
Kannada koda “earthen pitcher or pot”, kudike “small earthen, metal, or wooden
vessel”, guduvana, gudana “large water-vessel (used also for storing grain);
earthen pot used for churning”; Kodagu kudike “pot in which food (especially
rice) is cooked”; Tulu kudki, kudk'e, gudke “small earthen vessel”; Telugu kudaka,
kuduka “cup, bowl, scoop, any cup-like thing”, gudaka “a coconut or other similar
8. Common Nostratic Roots 23
1
shell”, gudaka, kudaka “shell of a fruit prepared to serve as a snuff-box, etc., a
small metal box”, kudalu “small earthen vessels”, (b) Malayalam kuttakam,
kuttukam “cauldron, large vessel with a narrow mouth (especially for treasure)”;
Kodagu kuttuva “big copper pot for heating water”.
Buck 1949:5.26 pot.
648. Proto-Nostratic *k’u(n)G-/*k’o(n)G- “gnat, mosquito”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *k’oGon- “gnat, mosquito”: Georgian k’oyo-, k'oyona- “gnat,
mosquito”; Mingrelian k’oyo(na)-, k'oyunia- “gnat, mosquito”; Zan k’o(r)yon-
“gnat, mosquito”; Svan k’oyon-, k’uyun-, k’ayan- “gnat, mosquito”. Klimov
1964:114 *koyon-.
B. Dravidian: Kannada gungada, gungadi, gungani “mosquito”, gunguru “eyefly;
mosquito, gnat”; Tulu gugguru “small insect infesting grain”; Kui gungu “a large
wood-boring insect”; Kuwi gorjgara viha “a kind of mosquito”.
649. Proto-Nostratic *k ’ut ’-/*k’ot ’-
“to be small”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *k’ut’u- “small, little”: Georgian k’ut’a- “boy, lad, (male)
child”; Mingrelian k’ut’u- “(child’s) penis”; Zan k’ut’u- “(child’s) penis”; Svan
k'ot’ol (adj.) “little”, (adv.) “a little”, k’odol (adv.) “a little”. Klimov 1964:118
*kutu-.
B. Proto-Afroasiatic *k’at’-/*k’at’- “to be small”: Proto-Semitic *k’at’-an- “small,
thin” > Hebrew katon “small, insignificant”, katan “little, small”; Syriac katan
“to grow thin”; Mandaic kotana “small”; Sabaean kpi “small”; Mehri kciytan “to
become thin”; Jibbali katan “to become thin”; Harsusi kayten “to become thin”,
keffn “thin”; Ethiopic / Geez katana “to be thin, fine, lean, subtle, emaciated”,
kattin “fine, thin, subtle, delicate, transcendent”; Tigrinya katana “to be thin”;
Tigre kapia “to be thin”; Amharic kattana “to be thin”; Argobba kattana “to be
thin”; Gurage katana “to be thin, slender, slim, lean, meager, skinny”. Central
Chadic *kut ’un- “short, small” > Tera kutun “short, small”. Orel—Stolbova 1995,
no. 1615, *kutun- “to be small”.
C. Dravidian: Tamil kuttam “smallness, young of a monkey”, kuttan “laddie, lassie
(as a term of endearment”, kutp “young of a dog, pig, tiger, etc.; little girl;
232 8. Common Nostratic Roots
smallness", k uttai “shortness, dwarfishness”; Malayalam kuttan “boy, lamb, calf’,
kutti “young of any animal, child (chiefly girl); pupil of eye”, kutu “small,
narrow”; Kota kut “short, small”; Kannada giddu, guddu “shortness, smallness”,
gidda “dwarf’, gudda “dwarf, a boy; smallness, shortness”; Kodagu kutti “child of
any caste except Coorgs, young of animals (except dog, cat, pig)”; Tulu gidda
“small, short”; Telugu gidda, gitaka “short, dwarfish”, gudda “child”; Kui guta
“short, dwarfish”, guti “stumpy, short, shortened”; Kurux gudru, gurru “dwarfish
(of persons and animals only)”; Brahui ghuddu, guddu “small, urchin”.
D. Sumerian gud4-da, guds-da “short”.
Buck 1949:12.56 small, little; 12.59 short.
650. Proto-Nostratic *k’ud-/*k’od- “tail”:
A. Proto-Kartvelian *k’ud- “tail”: Georgian k’udi “tail”; Mingrelian k'ud-eli “tail”;
Zan k’ud-eli “tail”; Svan ha-k’wad, (Lower Bal) ha-k'wed “tail”. Klimov
1964:1 17 *kud-\ Schmidt 1962:120 *kod-\ Fahnrich 1994:222.
B. Proto-Altaic *kudurka “tail, crupper”: Mongolian qudurga “crupper”; Kalmyk
Xudryn “crupper”; Old Turkish qudruq (< *qudurq < *kudurka) “tail”; Yakut
kuturuk “tail”; Sagai x^urux “tail”; Oirat qujruq “tail”.
Buck 1949:4.18 tail.
651. Proto-Nostratic *p[h]al-l
if
p[h]ol- “spleen”:
A. Proto-Indo-European *(s)p[h]el-, *(s)p[h]l- (plus extensions) “spleen”: Sanskrit
plihan- “spleen”; Avestan sporozan- “spleen”; Bengali piliha, pila “spleen”; Hindi
pTlha, pilot “spleen”; Armenian phaycaln “spleen”; Greek 07tkf|v “spleen”, (pi.)
oitZdyxva “the inward parts”; Latin lien “spleen”; Old Irish selg “spleen”; Breton
felc ’h “spleen”; Old Church Slavic slezena “spleen”.
B. (?) Afroasiatic: Proto-Highland East Cushitic *hifella “spleen” (if from *hi-fella)
> Hadiyya hilleffa “spleen”; Kambata efeella “spleen”; Sidamo efelekk'o
“spleen”.
C. (?) Proto-Finno-Ugrian *lappa “spleen, milt” (assuming metathesis from *pala as
in Panjabi lipph “enlarged spleen” and Hadiyya hilleffa “spleen”, cited above) >
8. Common Nostratic Roots 233
Hungarian lep “spleen, milt”; Cheremis / Mari lepo, lep “spleen”; Votyak /
Udmurt lup “spleen”; Zyrian / Komi lop “spleen”.
D. Dravidian: Tulu palle “spleen”; Telugu balla “enlargement of the spleen”; Paiji
bella “spleen”; Kuwi balla, bella, beta “spleen”.
652. Proto-Nostratic *k[b]uwan-/*k[h]uw9n- “dog”:
A. Proto-Indo-European *k[h](u)wdn-/*k[h]un- “dog”: Sanskrit svan- (nom. sg. svd,
suv&\ gen. sg. simah) “dog”; Greek kucov (gen. sg. Kuvoq) “dog”; Latin cams
“dog”; Old Irish cu (gen. sg. con
)
“dog”; Welsh ci “dog”; Gothic hands “dog”;
Old Icelandic hundr “dog”; Old High German hunt “dog”; Old Saxon hund
“dog”; Old English hund “dog”; Lithuanian suo (gen. sg. suns) “dog”; Tocharian
A ku (oblique kon) “dog"; Hieroglyphic Luwian zu-wa/i-n(i)- “dog” (this may be
a loan from Indo-Aryan [cf. Kronasser 1956:229, §208]).
B. Proto-Afroasiatic *k[h]3wan-l*k[h]owon- “dog”: Proto-East Chadic (*k[h]owdn-
> *k[h]wdn- > *k[h]an- >) *kanya- “dog” > Dangla kanya “dog”; Jegu kany-
“dog”; Proto-Omotic *kan- “dog” > Ome kana, kanaa “dog; Mao kano “dog”.
Orel—Stobova 1995:311, no. 1425 Proto-Afroasiatic *kan- “dog”. Proto-Berber
CkP'Jowon- > *k[h]wan- > *k[h]wun- > *k[h]un- >) *kun- “dog” > Guanche cuna
“dog”; Proto-Omotic *kunan- “dog” > Kaffa kunano “dog”; Mocha kunano
“dog”. Orel—Stobova 1995:327, no. 1498 Proto-Afroasiatic *kun- “dog”. Proto-
West Chadic (*kp,
]9won- > *k[h]uwen- > *k[h]uHen- >) *kuHen- “dog” >
Mogogodo kwehen “dog”; Fyer kweer) “dog”; Proto-Omotic CkP’Jowon- >
*k[hJewen- > *k[h]eHen- >) *keHen- “dog” > Dime keenu “dog”. Orel
—
Stolbova 1995:328, no. 1511 Proto-Afroasiatic *kuHen- “dog”.
Buck 1949:3.61 dog. Illic-Svityc 1971 — .1:361 —362, no. 238, Proto-Nostratic *KujnA
“wolf, dog”. Illic-Svityc also cites the following Uralic forms: Lapp gaidne “wolf’;
Mordvin / Udmurt kyjon “wolf’; Cheremis / Komi kg'in “wolf’. I have been unable to
verify the existence of these forms on the basis of works available to me.
8.3. New Material to be Added to Existing Etymologies
313. Proto-Nostratic *gwan-/*gwon- “to swell, to abound”:
Kartvelian: Svan gun “very; plenty of’.
492. Proto-Nostratic *wir-/*wer- “to say, to speak, to tell, to point out, to make known”:
234 8. Common Nostratic Roots
Afroasiatic: Egyptian (Demotic) wSh “message, matter, news”; Coptic wo “news, report”.
494. Proto-Nostratic *waly-/*w3ly- “to blaze, to shine, to be bright”:
Afroasiatic: Southern Cushitic: Proto-Rift *welah- “to appear, to emerge into view” >
Iraqw welahat- “to appear, to emerge into view”; K’wadza wilit- “to come out of hiding”.
541. Proto-Nostratic * maw-/*mow- “to lust after, to desire passionately, to copulate, to have
sexual intercourse, to beget”;
Dravidian: Tamil mani “penis”; Malayalam mani “penis”; Kannada mani “penis”.
8.4. The Following Etymologies Should be Replaced
26. PN *bany-l*b9ny- “to join together, to fit together, to fasten, to twist together, to form or
produce in any way” > PIE *b[h]en-d[h]-/*b[h]on-d[h]-l*b[h]n-d[h]- “to join together, to
fit together, to fasten, to twist together, to form or produce in any way”; PAA *ban-/
*bon- “to join together, to fit together, to fasten, to twist together, to form or produce in
any way”; PD *pan- “service, work, business; act, action; to make, to produce, to build”.
The Dravidian material should be replaced with PD *pin- “to unite, to tie, to fasten; to
twist or twine together” (Burrow—Emeneau 1984:368—369, no. 4160) and PD *pinn-
“to plait, to braid, to twist together” (Burrow—Emeneau 1984:373, no. 4207), and the
Proto-Nostratic reconstruction should be rewritten *biny-/*beny- to reflect the new
material from Dravidian. Note that Ehret (1995:85, no. 19) reconstructs PAA *bin- “to
build, to create; (n.) house”.
311. Proto-Nostratic *k’yun-l*k’yon- “to bend or fold together, to crack, to split, to divide”
should be replaced by Proto-Nostratic *k’un-/*k’on- “to bend, to bow; to bend or fold
(together); to crack, to split; to tie or bind together” on the basis of the following:
A. Proto-Indo-European ( *k’en-/*k’on-f)*k’n- “to bend; to bend or fold (together); to
crack, to split; to tie or bind together”: Greek yvapTuco “to bend”; German
knicken “to crease, to bend, to fold, to crack, to break, to split, to snap, to burst”;
Old Icelandic kneikja “to bend backwards with force”, knytja “to knit or tie
together”, knyta “to knit, to fasten by a knot, to bind, to tie”; Old English cnyttan
“to tie”, cnyttels “string, sinew”.
B. Proto-Kartvelian *k’on- “to tie or bind together”: Georgian k’on-va “to wrap, to
tie together, to bind up”, k’on-a “bundle, bunch”; Mingrelian k’uno (< *k’ono)
“creel”; Svan li-c ’orti “to wrap up”.
8. Common Nostratic Roots 235
C. Proto-Afroasiatic *k’an-/*k’on- “to bend, to bow; to be bent, curved, crooked”:
Semitic: Arabic kaniya “to be hooked, aquiline (nose)”, ’akm “bent, curved,
crooked, hooked”. Egyptian qnb “to bend, to bow, to incline (oneself); to
subjugate”, qnbt “comer, angle”, qnl “sheaf, bundle”; Coptic knaaw “sheaf’ (<
qm’w).
D. Dravidian: Tamil kun “bend, curve, hump on the back, humpback, snail”, kunu
(kuni-) “to curve, to become crooked, to bend down, to become hunchbacked”,
kunal “bend, curve, hump”, kunan “humpback”, kuni (-v-, -nt-) “to bend (as a
bow), to bow, to stoop”, kuni (-pp-, -tt-) “to bend (tr.), to stoop”, kuni “curvature,
bow (weapon)”; Malayalam kunuka “to stoop, to be crookbacked”, kuni
“semicircle, curve”, kuniyuka “to bow, to stoop, to bend”, kunikka “to make a
curve, to cause to stand stooping”; Kannada kun (kuni-), kunu “to be bent or
bowed, to bend, to stoop; (n.) a hump”, kunuhgu “to bend, to stoop, to crouch, to
contract oneself, to shrivel up”; Gondi gun- “to bend”.
Buck 1949:9.14 bend (vb. tr.); 9.15 fold (vb. tr.); 9.16 bind (vb. tr.); 10.14 wind, wrap
(vb.); 12.74 crooked.
148. PN *ty[h]awr- “bull, steer” > PIE *t[»Jawro- “bull”; PAA */y[h
Jawr- “bull, steer”.
This etymology should be removed —we are probably dealing with loanwords here.
References
Adams, Douglas Q.
1988 Tocharian Historical Phonology and Morphology. New Haven, CT:
American Oriental Society.
Adrados, Francisco R[odrlguez]
1975 Linguistica indoeuropea [Indo-European Linguistics]. 2 vols. Madrid:
Gredos.
1988 Nuevos estudios de linguistica indoeuropea [New Studies in Indo-
European Linguistics]
.
Madrid: Consejo Superior de Investigaciones
Cientificas (C.S.I.C.).
1989a “Etruscan as an IE Anatolian (but not Hittite) Language”. Journal of
Indo-European Studies 17:3/4.363—383.
1989b “Agglutination, Suffocation or Adaptation? For the History of
Indoeuropean Nominal Inflection”. Indogermanische Forschungen 91
A
—
28.
1992 “The New Image of Indoeuropean: The History of a Revolution”.
Indogermanische Forschungen 97.1—28.
Al-Ani, Salman
1 970 Arabic Phonology. The Hague: Mouton.
Allen, W. Sidney
1976 “The PIE Aspirates: Phonetic and Typological Factors in
Reconstruction”. Linguistic Studies Offered to Joseph Greenberg, ed. By
Alphonse Juilland, vol. II, pp. 237—247. Saratoga, CA: Anma Libri.
Anthony, David W.
1991 “The Archeology of Indo-European Origins”. Journal of Indo-European
Studies 19:3/4.193—222.
Anttila, Raimo
1989. Historical and Comparative Linguistics. 2nd edition. Amsterdam and
Philadelphia, PA: John Benjamins.
Arlotto, David
1972 Introduction to Historical Linguistics. Reprinted 1981. Lanham, MD:
University Press of America, Inc.
Austerlitz, Robert
1968 “L’ouralien” [“Uralic”]. Le langage, ed. by Andre Martinet, pp. 1331
—
1387. Paris: Editions Gallimard.
Baldi, Philip (ed.)
1990 Linguistic Change and Reconstruction Methodology. Berlin and New
York, NY: Mouton de Gruyter.
238 References
Bammesberger, Alfred
1984 Studien zur Laryngaltheorie [Studies on the Laryngeal Theory],
Gottingen: Vandenhoeck and Ruprecht.
Barbujani, Guido, Andrea Pilastro, Silvia de Domenico, and Colin Renfrew
1994 “Genetic Variation in North Africa and Eurasia: Neolithic Demic
Diffusion vs. Paleolithic Colonisation”. American Journal of Physical
Anthropology 95.137—154.
Beekes, Robert S. P.
1995 Comparative Indo-European Linguistics: An Introduction. Amsterdam
and Philadelphia, PA: John Benjamins.
Benveniste, Emile
1935 Origines de la formation des noms en indo-europeen [Origins of the
Formation of Nouns in Indo-European], Paris: Librairie Adrien-
Maisonneuve.
1969 Le vocabulaire des institutions indo-europeennes [The Vocabulary of
Indo-European Institutions]
.
2 volumes. Paris: Les Editions de Minuit.
Bergstrasser, Gotthelf
1983 Introduction to the Semitic Languages. Text Specimens and Grammatical
Sketches. Translated with notes and bibliography by Peter T. Daniels.
Winona Lake, IN: Eisenbrauns.
Bernal, Martin
1980 “Speculations on the Disintegration of Afroasiatic”. Paper presented at
the 8th conference of the North American Conference on Afroasiatic
Linguistics, San Francisco, April 1980, and at the 1st International
Conference of Somali Studies, Mogadishu, July 1980.
Bhat, D. N. S.
1978 “A General Study of Palatalization”. Universals ofHuman Language, ed.
by Joseph H. Greenberg, vol. 2, pp. 47—92. Stanford, CA: Stanford
University Press.
Bidwell, Charles E.
1963 Slavic Historical Phonology in Tabular Form. The Hague: Mouton.
Bimbaum, Henrik
1977 Linguistic Reconstruction: Its Potentials and Limitations in New
Perspective. Washington, DC: Journal of Indo-European Studies.
1992 “Genetic and Typological Approaches to External Comparison of
Languages”. Nostratic, Dene-Caucasian, Austric and Amerind, ed. by
Vitaly Shevoroshkin, pp. 10—33. Bochum: Brockmeyer.
Blazek, Vaclav
1992a “Kartvelian Material in Nostratic Lexicon: New Etymologies”. Nostratic,
Dene-Caucasian, Austric and Amerind, ed. by Vitaly Shevoroshkin, pp.
112—128. Bochum: Brockmeyer.
References 239
1992b
1992c
Bloch, Jules
1965
Boisson, Claude
1987a
1987b
1988
1989
1992
Bomhard, Allan R.
1984
1986a
1986b
1988
1990
1991
1992a
“Kartvelian Material in Nostratic Lexicon: New Etymologies II”.
Nostratic, Dene-Caucasian, Austric and Amerind, ed. by Vitaly
Shevoroshkin, pp. 129—148. Bochum: Brockmeyer.
“Some Nostratic Etymologies”. Nostratic, Dene-Caucasian, Austric and
Amerind, ed. by Vitaly Shevoroshkin, pp. 245—265. Bochum:
Brockmeyer.
Indo-Aryan from the Vedas to Modern Times. English edition largely
revised by the author and translated by Alfred Master. Paris: Adrien-
Maisonneuve.
“Quelques ressemblances lexicales entre sumerien et dravidien” [“Several
Lexical Resemblances between Sumerian and Dravidian”]. Manuscript.
“A Conjecture on the Linguistic Affiliation of Sumerian”. Manuscript.
“Some Sumerian Grammatical Elements in a Nostratic Perspective”.
Manuscript.
“Contraintes typologiques sur le systeme phonologique du sumerien”
[“Typological Constraints on the Phonological System of Sumerian”].
Bulletin de la Societe de Linguistique de Paris LXXXIV/1.201—233.
“The Sumerian Pronominal System in a Nostratic Perspective”. Nostratic,
Dene-Caucasian, Austric and Amerind, ed. by Vitaly Shevoroshkin, pp.
433—461. Bochum: Brockmeyer.
Toward Proto-Nostratic: A New Approach to the Comparison of Proto-
Indo-European and Proto-Afroasiatic. (= Current Issues in Linguistic
Theory, vol. 27.) Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
“Common Indo-European/Affoasiatic Roots: Supplement 1”. General
Linguistics 26/4.225—257.
“The Aspirated Stops of Proto-Indo-European”. Diachronica 111/1:67
—
80.
“The Prehistoric Development of the Athematic Verbal Endings in Proto-
Indo-European”. A Linguistic Happening in Memory of Benjamin
Schwartz, ed. by Yoel L. Arbeitman, pp. 475—488. Louvain-la-Neuve:
Publications Linguistiques de Louvain.
“A Survey of the Comparative Phonology of the So-Called ‘Nostratic
Languages’.” Linguistic Change and Reconstruction Methodology, ed. by
Philip Baldi, pp. 331 —358. The Hague: Mouton de Gruyter.
“Lexical Parallels between Proto-Indo-European and Other Languages”.
Studia Etymologica Indoeuropaea: Memoriae A. J. Van Windekens
(1915—1 989) Dicata, ed. by L. Isebaert, pp. 47—106. Leuven: Peeters.
“Distant Linguistic Comparison and the Nostratic Hypothesis”. FAIES
Newsletter II/ 1
(March 1992).
240 References
1 992b “The Nostratic Macrofamily (with Special Reference to Indo-European)”.
Word 43/1.61 —83.
1992c ‘“Zakon stertevanta’ v xettskom: reinterpretacija” [Sturtevant’s Law in
Hittite: A Reassessment]. Voprosy Jazykoznanija 1992/4:5—11.
1993 “Linguistic Methodology and Distant Linguistic Comparison”. Mother
Tongue 20.1 —4.
Bombard, Allan R. and John C. Kems
1994 The Nostratic Macrofamily: A Study in Distant Linguistic Relationship.
Berlin, New York, NY, and Amsterdam: Mouton de Gruyter.
Bonfante, Larissa
1 990 Etruscan. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press.
Bonfante, Giuliano and Larissa Bonfante
1983 The Etruscan Language: An Introduction. New York, NY: New York
University Press.
Bright, William (ed.)
1992 International Encyclopedia of Linguistics. New York, NY, and Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Brugmann, Karl
1904 Kurze vergleichende Grammatik der indogermanischen Sprachen. Auf
Grund des funfbandigen "Grundrifi der vergleichenden Grammatik der
indogermanischen Sprachen von K. Brugmann und B. DelbrUck" [Concise
Comparative Grammar ofthe Indo-European Languages. Based upon the
Five Volume “Elements of the Comparative Grammar of the Indo-
European Languages by K. Brugmann and B. DelbrUck”]. Berlin: Walter
de Gruyter. Reprinted 1970.
Brugmann, Karl and Berthold Delbriick
1897—1916 Grundrifi der vergleichenden Grammatik der indogermanischen Sprachen
[Elements of the Comparative Grammar of the Indo-European
Languages], 2nd edition. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter. Reprinted 1967.
Brunner, Linus
1969 Die gemeinsamen Wurzeln des semitisches und indogermanisches
Wortschatzes [The Common Roots of the Semitic and Indo-European
Vocabularies], Bern: Francke Verlag.
Buck, Carl Darling
1933 Comparative Grammar of Greek and Latin. 10th impression 1966.
Chicago, IL, and London: University of Chicago Press.
1955 The Greek Dialects: Grammar, Selected Inscriptions, Glossary. 3rd
impression (corrected) 1965. Chicago, IL, and London: University of
Chicago Press.
1949 A Dictionary of Selected Synonyms in the Principal Indo-European
Languages. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.
References 241
Burenhult, Goran (ed.)
1993 People of the Stone Age: Hunter-Gatherers and Early Farmers.
Foreword by Colin Renfrew. New York, NY: Harper Collins.
Burrow, Thomas
1973 The Sanskrit Language. 3rd edition. London: Faber & Faber.
Burrow, Thomas, and Murray B. Emeneau
1984 Dravidian Etymological Dictionary. 2nd edition. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Bynon, Theodora
1977 Historical Linguistics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Caldwell, Robert
1913 A Comparative Grammar of the Dravidian or South Indian Family of
Languages. 3rd edition revised and edited by J. L. Wyatt and T.
Ramakrishna Pillai. Reprinted 1974. New Delhi: Oriental Reprint
Corporation.
Cardona, George, Henry M. Hoenigswald, and Alfred Senn (eds.)
1970 Indo-European and Indo-Europeans. Philadelphia, PA: University of
Pennsylvania Press.
Carlton, Terence R.
1991 Introduction to the Phonological History of the Slavic Languages.
Columbus, OH: Slavica Publishers, Inc.
Catford, John C.
1977 Fundamental Problems in Phonetics. Bloomington, IN: Indiana
University Press.
1988 Phonetics. Oxford, New York, NY, Toronto: Oxford University Press.
Cavalli-Sforza, L[uigi] Luca, Paolo Menozzi, and Alberto Piazza
1994 History and Geography of Human Genes. Princeton, NJ: Princeton
University Press.
Cavalli-Sforza, Luigi Luca and Francesco Cavalli-Sforza
1995 The Great Human Diasporas: The History of Diversity and Evolution.
Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.
Cemy, J.
1976 Coptic Etymological Dictionary. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Childe, V. Gordon
1926 The Aryans: A Study of Indo-European Origins. Reprinted 1987. New
York, NY: Dorset Press.
Chomsky, Noam and Morris Halle
1968 The Sound Pattern ofEnglish. New York, NY: Harper and Row.
Clark, Grahame
1980 The Mesolithic Prelude. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
242 References
Cohen, David
1968
Cohen, David (ed.)
1988
Cohen, Marcel
1947
Colarusso, John
1975
1981
1992
Collinder, Bjom
1934
1954
1957
1960
1965
1977
Collinge, N. E.
1970a
“Langues chamito-semitiques” [“Hamito-Semitic Languages”]. Le
langage, ed. by Andre Martinet, pp. 1288—1330. Paris: Editions
Gallimard.
Les langues dans le monde ancien et moderne: langues chamito-
semitiques [Languages in the Ancient and Modern World: Hamito-
Semitic Languages]. Paris: Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique.
Essai comparatifsur le vocabulaire et la phonetique du chamito-semitique
[An Attempt at the Comparison of the Vocabulary and Phonology of
Hamito-Semitic]. Reprinted 1969. Paris: Honore Champion.
The Northwest Caucasian Languages: A Phonological Survey. Ph.D.
dissertation, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA.
“Typological Parallels between Proto-Indo-European and the Northwest
Caucasian Languages”. Bono Homini Donum: . Essays in Historical
Linguistics in Memory ofJ. Alexander Kerns, ed. by Yoel L. Arbeitman
and Allan R. Bomhard, part I, pp. 475—557. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
“Phyletic Links between Proto-Indo-European and Proto-Northwest
Caucasian”. The Non-Slavic Languages of the USSR: Linguistic Studies
(Second Series), ed. by Howard I. Aronson, pp. 19—54. Chicago, IL:
Chicago Linguistic Society. Reprinted in Mother Tongue 21: 8—20
(1994).
Indo-uralisches Sprachgut: Die Urverwandtschaft zwischen der
indoeuropaischen und der uralischen (finnisch-ugrisch-samojedischen)
Sprachfamilie [Common Indo-Uralic Linguistic Possessions: The
Primitive Relationship between the Indo-European and Uralic (Finno-
Ugrian-Samoyed) Language Familes], Uppsala: A. B. Lundequistska.
“Zur indo-uralische Frage” [“Concerning the Indo-Uralic Question”].
Acta Universitatis Upsaliensis 10.79—91.
A Survey ofthe Uralic Languages. Uppsala: Almqvist and Wiksells.
A Comparative Grammar of the Uralic Languages. Uppsala: Almqvist
and Wiksells.
An Introduction to the Uralic Languages. Berkeley and Los Angeles, CA:
University of California Press.
Fenno-Ugric Vocabulary. An Etymological Dictionary of the Uralic
Languages. 2nd revised edition. Uppsala: Almqvist and Wiksells.
Collectanea Linguistica: Essays in General and Genetic Linguistics. The
Hague: Mouton.
References 243
1970b “The Indo-European Laryngeal”. Collectanea Linguistica: Essays in
General and Genetic Linguistics, by N. E. Collinge, pp. 67—101. The
Hague: Mouton.
1985 The Laws ofIndo-European. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Cornrie, Bernard
1993 Review of Starostin 1991. Language 69/4.828—832.
Cornrie, Bernard (ed.)
1981 The Languages of the Soviet Union. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
1987 The World’s Major Languages. New York, NY: Oxford University Press.
Couvreur, Walter
1937 De Hettitische H: Een Bijdrage tot de Studie van het Indo-Europeesche
Vocalisme [Hittite H: A Contribution to the Study of Indo-European
Vocalism], Louvain: Bibliotheque du Museon.
Cowgill, Warren and Manfred Mayrhofer
1986 Indogermanische Grammatik I: 1. Einleitung. 2. Lautlehre [Indo-
European Grammar I: 1. Introduction. 2. Phonology], Heidelberg: Carl
Winter.
Crawford, Harriet
1991 Sumer and the Sumerians. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Cunliffe, Barry (ed.)
1 994 The Oxford Illustrated Prehistory ofEurope. Oxford and New York, NY
:
Oxford University Press.
Cuny, Albert
1946 Invitation a l ’etude comparative des langues indo-europeennes et des
langues chamito-semitiques. Bordeaux: Editions Biere.
Dani, A. H. and V. M. Masson (eds.)
1992 History of Civilizations of Central Asia. Volume I: The Dawn of
Civilization: Earliest Times to 700 B.C. Paris: UNESCO.
Decsy, Gyula
1965
1990
1991
Delbruck, Berthold
1974
Einfuhrung in die finnisch-ugrische Sprachwissenschaft [Introduction to
Finno-Ugrian Linguistics], Wiesbaden: Otto Harrassowitz.
The Uralic Protolanguage: A Comprehensive Reconstruction.
Bloomington, IN: Eurolingua.
The Indo-European Protolanguage: A Computational Reconstruction.
Bloomington, IN: Eurolingua.
Introduction to the Study of Language. English translation (1881) by E.
Charming. New edition prepared with a Foreword and a Selected
Bibliography by E.F.K. Koemer. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
244 References
Semito-Hamitic Languages. Moscow: Nauka.
“On Root Structure in Proto-Semitic”. Hamito-Semitica, ed. by James
Bynon and Theodora Bynon, pp. 133—153. The Hague: Mouton.
Letter to the Conference regarding recent work in the USSR on the
comparative historical vocabulary of Afrasian. Current Progress in Afro-
asiatic Linguistics: Papers from the Third International Hamito-Semitic
Congress, ed. by James Bynon, pp. 1 —10. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Afrasian Languages. Moscow: Nauka.
“Language Contacts in the Caucasus and the Near East”. When Worlds
Collide: Indo-European and Pre-Indo-Europeans. The Bellagio Papers,
ed. by Thomas L. Markey and John A. C. Greppin, pp. 53—65. Ann
Arbor, MI: Karoma.
Proto-Afrasian and Old Akkadian: A Study in Historical Phonetics. (=
Journal of Afroasiatic Languages 4:1/2.) Princeton, NJ: Institute of
Semitic Studies.
Diakonoff, Igor M. (ed.)
1991 Early Antiquity. English translation by Alexander Kiijanov. Foreword by
Philip L. Kohl, Project Editor. Chicago, IL, and London: University of
Chicago Press.
Diakonoff, Igor M. and Sergej A. Starostin
1986 Hurro-Urartian as an Eastern Caucasian Language. Munich: R.
Kitzinger.
Dixon, R. M. W.
1980 The Languages ofAustralia. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Djahukyan, Gevork B.
1 967 Vzaimootnosenie indoevropejskix xurritsko-urartskix i kavkazskix jazykov
[Interrelations of the Indo-European, Hurrian-Urartean, and Caucasian
Languages], Yerevan: Academy of Sciences of the Armenian SSR.
1990 “A Variational Model of the Indoeuropean Consonant System”.
Historische Sprachforschung 103:1—16.
Dolgopolsky, Aaron
1973 Sravnitel'no-istoriceskaja fonetika kusitskix jazykov [An Historical-
Comparative Phonology ofthe Cushitic Languages], Moscow: Nauka.
1977 “Emphatic Consonants in Semitic”. Israel Oriental Studies VII:1 —13.
1984 “On Personal Pronouns in the Nostratic Languages”. Linguistica et
Philologica. Gedenkschriftfur Bjorn Collinder (1894—1983), ed. by Otto
Gschwantler, Karoly Redei, and Hermann Reichert, pp. 65—1 12. Vienna:
Wilhelm Braumuller.
1988 “The Indo-European Homeland and Lexical Contacts of Proto-Indo-
European with Other Languages”. Mediterranean Language Review
3:7—31.
Diakonoff, Igor M.
1965
1975
1984
1988
1990
1992
References 245
1989 “Problems of Nostratic Comparative Phonology (Preliminary Report)”.
Reconstructing Languages and Cultures,
ed. by Vitaly Shevoroshkin, pp.
90—98. Bochum: Brockmeyer.
1992 “The Nostratic Vowels in Indo-European”. Nostratic, Dene-Caucasian,
Austric and Amerind, ed. by Vitaly Shevoroshkin, pp. 298—331.
Bochum: Brockmeyer.
1994 “Nostratic”. The Encyclopedia ofLanguage and Linguistics, ed. by R. E.
Asher, volume 5, p. 2838. Oxford: Pergamon Press.
Edgerton, Franklin
1946 Sanskrit Historical Phonology: A Simplified Outline for the Use of
Beginners in Sanskrit. New Haven, CT: American Oriental Society.
Ehret, Christopher
1980 The Historical Reconstruction of Southern Cushitic Phonology and
Vocabulary. Berlin: Dietrich Reimer Verlag.
1989a A Reconstruction ofProto-Afroasiatic. Manuscript.
1989b “The Origin of Third Consonants in Semitic Roots: An Internal
Reconstruction (Applied to Arabic)”. Journal of Afroasiatic Languages
2/2.109—202.
1995 Reconstructing Proto-Afroasiatic (Proto-Afrasian): Vowels, Tone,
Consonants, and Vocabulary. Berkeley and Los Angeles, CA: University
of California Press.
Emonds, Joseph
1972 “A Reformulation of Grimm’s Law”. Contributions to Generative
Phonology, ed. by Michael K. Brame, pp. 108—122. Austin, TX:
University of Texas Press.
Endzelins, Janis
1971 Comparative Phonology and Morphology of the Baltic Languages.
Translated by William R. Schmalstieg and Benjamins Jegers. The Hague:
Mouton.
Entwistle, W. J. and W. A. Morison.
1964 Russian and the Slavonic Languages. 2nd edition. London: Faber and
Faber.
Erman, Adolf and Hermann Grapow
1921 Agyptisches Handworterbuch [Egyptian Pocket Dictionary]. Reprinted
1981. Hildesheim: Georg Olms.
1926—1963 Worterbuch der agyptischen Sprache [Dictionary of the Egyptian
Language]. 7 volumes in 13 parts. Reprinted 1992. Berlin: Akademie
Verlag.
Emout, Alfred and Antoine Meillet
1979 Dictionnaire etymologique de la langue latine: Histoire des mots
[Etymological Dictionary ofthe Latin Language: History of Words]. 4th
edition. Paris: Klincksieck.
246 References
Fagan, Brian M.
1990 The Journey from Eden: The Peopling of our World. New York, NY:
Thames and Hudson, Inc.
Fahnrich, Heinz
1994 Grammatik der altgeorgischen Sprache [Grammar of the Old Georgian
Language], Hamburg: Helmut Buske Verlag.
Fairservis, Walter A.
1992 The Harappan Civilization and Its Writing. A Model for the
Decipherment ofthe Indus Script. Leiden: E. J. Brill.
Faulkner, Raymond O.
1962 A Concise Dictionary of Middle Egyptian. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Feist, Sigmund
1939 Vergleichendes Worterbuch der gotischen Sprache [Comparative
Dictionary ofthe Gothic Language], 3rd edition. Leiden: E. J. Brill.
Fleming, Harold C.
1968 “Ethiopic Language History: Hypotheses in an Archeological and
Documentary Context”. Ethnohistory XV/4.353—387.
1973 “Sub-classification in Hamito-Semitic”. Lexicostatistics in Genetic
Linguistics: Proceedings of the Yale Conference, Yale University, April
3—4, 1971, ed. by Isidore Dyen, pp. 85—88. The Hague: Mouton.
Fortescue, Michael, Steven Jacobson, and Lawrence Kaplan
1994 Comparative Eskimo Dictionary. Fairbanks, AK: Alaska Native
Language Center.
Franzaroli, P.
1975 “On the Common Semitic Lexicon and its Ecological and Cultural
Background”. Hamito-Semitica, ed. by James Bynon and Theodora
Bynon, pp. 43—53. The Hague: Mouton.
Gamkrelidze, Thomas V.
1966 “A Typology of Common Kartvelian”. Language 42.69—83.
1967 “Kartvelian and Indo-European: A Typological Comparison of
Reconstructed Linguistic Systems”. To Honor Roman Jakobson, volume
I, pp. 707—717. The Hague: Mouton.
1968 “Hittite and the Laryngeal Theory”. Pratidanam: Indian, Iranian and
Indo-European Studies Presented to Franciscus Bernardus Kuipers on his
Sixtieth Birthday, ed. by J. C. Heesterman, G. H. Schokker, and V. I.
Subramonian, pp. 89—97. The Hague: Mouton.
1970 ‘“Anatolian Languages’ and the Problem of Indo-European Migrations”.
Studies in General and Oriental Linguistics Presented to Shiro Hattori on
the Occasion ofHis Sixtieth Birthday, ed. by Roman Jakobson and Shigeo
Kawamoto, pp. 138—143. Tokyo: TEC Company, Ltd.
References 247
1976 “Linguistic Typology and Indo-European Reconstruction”. Linguistic
Studies Offered to Joseph Greenberg, ed. by Alphonse Juilland, vol. 2, pp.
399—406. Saratoga, CA: Anma Libri.
1978 “On the Correlation of Stops and Fricatives in a Phonological System”.
Universals of Human Language, ed. by Joseph H. Greenberg, volume 2,
Phonology, pp. 9—46. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
1981 “Language Typology and Language Universals and Their Implications for
the Reconstruction of the Indo-European Stop System”. Bono Homini
Donum: Essays in Historical Linguistics in Memory of J. Alexander
Kerns, ed. by Yoel L. Arbeitman and Allan R. Bomhard, part II, pp. 571
—
609. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
1982 “Problems of Consonantism of the Cuneiform Hittite Language”.
Societies and Languages ofthe Ancient Near East: Studies in Honor ofI.
M. Diakonoff, ed. by J. N. Postgate, pp. 76—80. Warminster: Aris and
Phillips.
Gamkrelidze, Thomas V. and Vjaceslav V. Ivanov
1972 “Lingvisticeskaja tipologija i rekonstrukcija sistemy indoevropejskix
smycnyx” [“Linguistic Typology and the Reconstruction of the Indo-
European Occlusives”]. Konferencija po sravnitel'no-istoriceskoj
grammatike indoevropejskix jaykov, pradvaritel'nye materialy [Working
Papers of the Conference on the Comparative-Historical Grammar of the
Indo-European Languages (12-14 December 1972)], pp. 15—18.
Moscow: Nauka.
1973 “Sprachtypologie und die Rekonstruktion der gemeinindogermanischen
Verschliisse” [“Linguistic Typology and the Reconstruction of the Indo-
European Occlusives”]. Phonetica 27:150—156.
1 984 Indoevropejskij jazyk i indo-evropejcy: Rekonstrukcija i istoriko-
tipologiceskij analiz prajazyka i protokul'tury [Indo-European and the
Indo-Europeans: A Reconstruction and Historical Typological Analysis of
a Protolanguage and a Proto-Culture], 2 vols. Tbilisi: Publishing House
of the Tbilisi State University.
1 995 Indo-European and the Indo-Europeans: A Reconstruction and Historical
Typological Analysis of a Protolanguage and a Proto-Culture. 2 vols.
English translation by Johanna Nichols. Berlin, New York, NY, and
Amsterdam: Mouton de Gruyter.
Gamkrelidze, Thomas V. and Givi Macavariani
1982 Sonantsystem und Ablaut in den Kartwelsprachen. Eine Typologie der
Struktur des Gemeinkartwelischen [The System of Resonants and Ablaut
in the Kartvelian Languages. A Typology of the Structure of Common
Kartvelian]. German translation by Winffied Boeder. Tubingen: Gunter
Narr Verlag.
248 References
Georgiev, Vladimir
1979
1981
1984
Ghatage, A. M.
1962
Gimbutas, Marija
1973
1974
1977
1985
1989
1990
1994
Godel, Robert
1975
Gonda, Jan
1966
1971
Grammont, Maurice
1948
Greenberg, Joseph H.
1957
1970
La lingua e l 'origine degli etruschi [The Language and the Origin of the
Etruscans], Rome: Nagard.
Introduction to the History of the Indo-European Languages. 3rd edition.
Sofia: Publishing House of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences.
“Die drei Hauptperioden des Indoeuropaischen” [“The Three Main Periods
of Indo-European”]. Diachronica 1/1.65—78.
Historical Linguistics and Indo-Aryan Languages. Bombay: University
of Bombay Press.
“The Beginning of the Bronze Age in Europe and the Indo-Europeans:
3500-2500 B.C.” Journal ofIndo-European Studies 1/2.163—214.
“An Archaeologist’s View of PIE In 1975”. Journal of Indo-European
Studies 2/3.289—307.
“The First Wave of Eurasian Steppe Pastoralists into Copper Age Europe”.
Journal ofIndo-European Studies 5/4.277—338.
“Primary and Secondary Homeland of the Indo-Europeans: Comments on
the Gamkrelidze—Ivanov Articles”. Journal of Indo-European Studies
13:1/2.185—202.
“The Social Structure of Old Europe”. Journal ofIndo-European Studies
17:3/4.197—214.
“The Social Structure of Old Europe: Part 2—4”. Journal of Indo-
European Studies 18:3/4.225—284.
Das Ende Alteuropas: Der Einfall von Steppennomaden aus Sudrufiland
und die lndogermanisierung Mitteleuropas. Innsbruck: Innsbrucker
Beitrage zur Kulturwissenschaft.
An Introduction to the Study of Classical Armenian. Wiesbaden: Dr.
Ludwing Reichert Verlag.
A Concise Elementary Grammar of the Sanskrit Language. English
translation by Gordon B. Ford, Jr. University, AL: University of
Alabama Press.
Old Indian. Leiden: E. J. Brill.
Phonetique du grec ancien [Phonology ofAncient Greek]. Paris: IAC.
Essays in Linguistics. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.
“Some Generalizations Concerning Glottalic Consonants”. International
Journal ofAmerican Linguistics 36:123—145.
Language in the Americas. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
1987
References 249
1990 “The Prehistory of the Indo-European Vowel System in Comparative and
Typological Perspective”. Proto-Languages and Proto-Cultures, ed. by
Vitaly Shevoroshkin, pp. 77—136. Bochum: Brockmeyer.
Forthcoming Indo-European and Its Closest Relatives: The Eurasiatic Language
Family. 2 volumes. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Griffen, Toby D.
1988 Germano-European: Breaking the Sound Law. Carbondale, IL: Southern
Illinois University Press.
Grillot-Susini, Fran?oise
1987 Elements de grammaire elamite [Elements of Elamite Grammar], Paris:
Editions Recherche sur les Civilizations.
Guilaine, Jean (ed.)
1989 La prehistoire d’un continent a l ’autre [Prehistoryfrom One Continent to
the Other]. Paris: Larouse.
Gumey, 0[liver] R[obert]
1990 The Hittites. Second edition, reprinted with revisions. London: Penguin
Books.
Haarmann, Harald
1994 “Contact Linguistics, Archaeology and Ethnogenetics: An
Interdisciplinary Approach to the Indo-European Homeland Problem”.
Journal ofIndo-European Studies 22.3/4:265—288.
Hajdu, Peter
1972 “The Origins of Hungarian.” The Hungarian Language, ed. by Lorand
Benko and Samu Imre, pp. 15—48. The Hague: Mouton.
1975 Finno-Ugrian Languages and Peoples. Translated and adapted by G. F.
Cushing. London: Andre Deutsch.
Hammerich, Louis
1967 “Ketzereien eines alten Indogermanisten” [“Heretical Views of an Old
Indo-Europeanist”]. To Honor Roman Jakobson, vol. II, pp. 839—840.
The Hague: Mouton.
Hawkes, Jacquetta
1974 Atlas ofAncient Archaeology. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill.
Hegedus, Iren
1992 Bibliographia Nostratica I960—1990 (A List of Publications on, or
Relevant for Nostratic Studies). Szombathely: Seminar fur uralische
Philologie der Berzsenyi-Hochschule.
Henry, Donald O.
1992 From Foraging to Agriculture: The Levant at the End of the Ice Age.
Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press.
Hinz, Walther and Heidemarie Koch
1987 Elamisches Worterbuch [Elamite Dictionary], 2 vols. Berlin: Dietrich
Reimer Verlag.
250 References
Hirt, Hermann
1931 —1934 Handbuch des Urgermanischen [Handbook of Proto-Germanic].
Heidelberg: Carl Winter.
Hock, Hans Henrich
1991 Principles of Historical Linguistics. 2nd edition, revised and updated.
Berlin and New York, NY: Mouton de Gruyter.
Hodge, Carleton T.
1993 “Indo-Europeans in the Near East”. Anthropological Linguistics
35:1/4.90—108. Special issue: A Retrospective of the Journal
Anthropological Linguistics: Selected Papers, 1959—1985.
Bloomington, IN: Department of Anthropology / American Indian Studies
Research Institute, Indiana University.
Hodge, Carleton T. (ed.)
1981 Afroasiatic: A Survey. The Hague: Mouton.
Hopper, Paul J.
1973 “Glottalized and Murmured Occlusives in Indo-European”. Glossa
7.141—166.
1977a “The Typology of the Proto-Indo-European Segmental Inventory”.
Journal ofIndo-European Studies 5/1.41 —53.
1977b “Indo-European Consonantism and the ‘New Look’”. Orbis XXVI/1.57
—
72.
1981 “‘Decern’ and ‘Taihun’ Languages: An Indo-European Isogloss”. Bono
Homini Donum: Essays in Historical Linguistics in Memory of J.
Alexander Kerns, ed. by Yoel L. Arbeitman and Allan R. Bomhard (eds.),
parti, PP- 133—142. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
1982 “Areal Typology and the Early Indo-European Consonant System”. The
Indo-Europeans in the Fourth and Third Millennia, ed. by Edgar C.
Polome, pp. 121 —139. Ann Arbor, MI: Karoma Publishers.
Httbner, Barbara and Albert Reizammer
1985—1986 Inim Kiengi II. Sumerisch-deutsches Glossar [Inim Kiengi II. Sumerian-
German Glossary], 2 vols. Marktredwitz: Selbstverlag Dipl.-Ing. Univ.
Albert Reizammer.
Hiibschmann, Heinrich
1885 Die indogermanische Vocalsystem [The Indo-European Vowel System],
Reprinted 1975. Amsterdam: Oriental Press.
1 897 Armenische Grammatik. Erster Teil: Armenische Etymologie [Armenian
Grammar. First Part: Armenian Etymology]. Reprinted 1962.
Hildesheim: Georg Olms.
Hudson, Grover
1989 Highland East Cushitic Dictionary. Hamburg: Helmut Buske Verlag.
Huld, Martin E.
1984 Basic Albanian Etymologies. Columbus, OH: Slavica Publishers, Inc.
References 25
1
Hutterer, Claus Jurgen
1975 Die germanischen Sprachen [The Germanic Languages], Budapest:
Akademiai Kiado.
Hyman, Larry
1975 Phonology: Theory and Analysis. New York, NY: Holt, Rinehart, and
Winston.
Illic-Svityc, V[ladislav] M[arkovic]
1965 “Materialy k sravnitel’nomu slovaiju nostraticeskix jazykov
(indoevropejskij, altajskij, ural’skij, dravidskij, kartvel’skij, semito-
xamitskij)” [“Materials for a Comparative Dictionary of the Nostratic
Languages (Indo-European, Altaic, Uralic, Dravidian, Kartvelian, Hamito-
Semitic)”]. Etimologija 1965.321—373.
1971— Opyt sravnenija nostraticeskix jazykov (semitoxamitskij, kartvel’skij,
indoevropejskij, ural’skij, dravidskij, altajskij) [An Attempt at a
Comparison of the Nostratic Languages (Hamito-Semitic, Kartvelian,
Indo-European, Uralic, Dravidian, Altaic)]. 3 vols. Moscow: Nauka.
Isserlin, B. S. J.
1975 “Some Aspects of the Present State of Hamito-Semitic Studies”. Hamito-
Semitica, ed. by James Bynon and Theodora Bynon, pp. 479—486. The
Hague: Mouton.
Jakobson, Roman
1971(1957) “Typological Studies and their Contribution to Historical Comparative
Linguistics”. Selected Writings, vol. I, pp. 523—532. 2nd edition. The
Hague: Mouton. (Originally presented as a report at the first plenary
session of the Eighth International Congress of Linguists, Oslo, August
1957.)
Johnson, Edwin Lee
1917 Historical Grammar of the Ancient Persian Language. New York, NY:
American Book Company.
Joki, Aulis J.
1973 Uralier und Indogermanen: Die alteren Beruhrungen zwischen den
uralischen und indogermanischen Sprachen [Uralians and Indo-
Europeans: The Older Contacts between the Uralic and Indo-European
Languages], Helsinki: Suomalais-Ugrilainen Seura.
Jones, Alex I.
1992 “Language and Archaeology: Evaluating Competing Explanations of the
Origins of the Indo-European Languages”. Journal of Indo-European
Studies 20:1/2.31—44.
Jones, John Morris
1913 A Welsh Grammar: Historical and Comparative. London: Oxford
University Press.
252 References
Jonsson, Hans
1978 The Laryngeal Theory: A Critical Survey. Lund: Gleerup.
Jungraithmayr, Hermann and Dymitr Ibriszimow
1994 Chadic Lexical Roots. 2 vols. Berlin: Dietrich Reimer Verlag.
Keiler, Allan R.
1970 A Phonological Study of the Indo-European Laryngeals. The Hague:
Mouton.
Kellens, Jean (ed.)
1990 La reconstruction des laryngales [The Reconstruction of the Laryngeals]
.
Paris: Societe d’Edition “Les Belles Lettres”.
Kent, Roland G.
1953 Old Persian. 2nd edition. New Haven, CT: American Oriental Society.
Kems, J. Alexander and Benjamin Schwartz
1972 A Sketch ofthe Indo-European Finite Verb. Leiden: E. J. Brill.
Kems, John C.
1985 Indo-European Prehistory. Cambridge: Heffer and Sons.
Kimball, Sara
1992 “Comparative Method”. International Encyclopedia of Linguistics, ed. by
William Bright, volume 1, pp. 274—279. New York, NY, and Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Kingdon, Jonathan
1993 Self-Made Man: Human Evolution from Eden to Extinction? New York,
NY: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
Klimov, G. V.
1964 Etimologiceskij slovar' kartvel'skix jazykov [Etymological Dictionary of
the Kartvelian Languages]. Moscow: Nauka.
1969 Die kaukasischen Sprachen [The Caucasian Languages], German
translation by Winfried Boeder. Hamburg: Helmut Buske Verlag.
1991 “Some Thoughts on Indo-European-Kartvelian Relations”. Journal of
Indo-European Studies 19:3/4.323—341.
Knobloch, Johann
1965 “Concetto storico di protolingua e possibility e limiti de applicazione ad
esso dei principi strutturalisti” [“The Concept of Proto-Language and the
Possibility and Limits of the Application to it of Structuralist Principles”].
“Le Proto-lingue ”: Atti del TVo Covegno Internazionale de Linguisti, 2-6
Settembre 1963 [“The Proto-Language”: Proceedings of the 4th
International Congress ofLinguists, 2-6 September 1963], pp. 141—163.
Milano: Sodalizio Glottologico Milanese.
Kortlandt, Frederik
1978a “Notes on Armenian Historical Phonology II (the Second Consonant
Shift)”. Studia Caucasica 4:9—16.
References 253
1978b “Proto-Indo-European Obsturents”. Indogermanische Forschungen
83:107—118.
1990 “The Spread of the Indo-Europeans”. Journal of Indo-European Studies
18:1/2.131—140.
Koskinen, Kalevi E.
1980 Nilal: Uber die Urverwandtschaft des Hamito-Semitischen,
Indogermanischen, Uralischen und Altaischen [Nilal: Concerning the
Relationship of Hamito-Semitic, Indo-European, Uralic, and Altaic],
Helsinki: Akateeminen Kiija-kauppa.
Kosko, Alexander
1991 “The Vistula-Oder Basins and the North Pontic Region”. Journal ofIndo-
European Studies 19:3/4.235—257.
Krahe, Hans
1966—1969 Indogermanische Sprachwissenschaft [Indo-European Linguistics], 5th
edition. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Krahe, Hans and Wolfgang Meid
1966—1967 Germanische Sprachwissenschaft [Germanic Linguistics], 6th edition.
Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Krantz, Grover S.
1988 Geographical Development of European Languages. New York, NY:
Peter Lang.
Krause, Wolfgang
1968 Handbuch des Gotischen [Manual of Gothic], 3rd edition. Munich: C.
H. Beck.
Krause, Wolfgang and Wemer Thomas
1960 Tocharisches Elementarbuch [Tocharian Primer], Volume 1.
Heidelberg: Carl Winter.
Krippes, Karl A.
1994 Review of Starostin 1991. DiachronicaXl/2.272—278.
Kronasser, Heinz
1956 Vergleichende Laut- und Formenlehre des Hethitischen [Comparative
Phonology and Morphology ofHittite], Heidelberg: Carl Winter.
1966 Etymologie der hethitischen Sprache [Etymology ofthe Hittite Language],
Vol. 1 . Wiesbaden: Otto Harrassowitz.
Kuipers, A[ert] H.
1 975 A Dictionary ofProto-Circassian Roots. Lisse: Peter de Ridder Press.
Kurylowicz, Jerzy
1935 Etudes indoeuropeennes I [Indo-European Studies I], Krakow: Polish
Academy.
1964 “On the Methods of Internal Reconstruction”. Proceedings of the Ninth
Internation Congress ofLinguists, ed. by Horace C. Lunt, pp. 9—36. The
Hague: Mouton.
254 References
Labov, William
1994 Principles of Linguistic Change: Internal Factors. Cambridge, MA:
Blackwell Publishers.
Ladefoged, Peter
1971 Preliminaries to Linguistic Phonetics. Chicago, IL: University of
Chicago Press.
1982 A Course in Phonetics. 2nd edition. New York, NY: Harcourt, Brace,
Jovanovich.
Lamb, Sydney M. and E. Douglas Mitchell (eds.)
1991 Sprung from Some Common Source. Investigations into the Prehistory of
Languages. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Landsberg, Marge
1986 Materialsfor a Bibliography of Translinguistic Studies. Bloomington, IN:
Indiana University Linguistics Club.
Laver, John
1994 Principles ofPhonetics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lehmann, Winfred P.
1952 Proto-Indo-European Phonology. Austin, TX: University of Texas Press.
1986 A Gothic Etymological Dictionary. Leiden: E. J. Brill.
1992 Historical Linguistics: An Introduction. 3rd edition. London and New
York, NY: Routledge.
1993 Theoretical Bases of Indo-European Linguistics. London, Boston, MA,
Melbourne, and Henley: Routledge.
Lehmann, Ruth P. M. and Winfred P. Lehmann
1975 An Introduction to Old Irish. New York, NY: Modem Language
Association.
Lejeune, Michel
1972 Phonetique historique du mycenien et du grec ancien [Historical
Phonology ofMycenaean and Ancient Greek]
.
Paris: Klincksieck.
Leskien, A.
1969 Handbuch der altbulgarischen Sprache [Handbuch of the Old Bulgarian
Language]. 9th edition. Heidelberg: Carl Winter.
Leslau, Wolf
1987 Comparative Dictionary ofGe'ez. Wiesbaden: Otto Harrassowitz.
Leumann, Manu
1963 Lateinische Laut- und Formenlehre [Latin Phonology and Morphology]
.
Volume I. Munich: C. H. Beck.
Lewis, Henry and Holger Pedersen
1961 A Concise Comparative Celtic Grammar. Reprinted with corrections and
a supplement. Gottingen: Vandenhoeck and Ruprecht.
Lindeman, Frederik Otto
1987 Introduction to the "Laryngeal Theory”. Oslo: Norwegian University
Press.
References 255
Lindsay, W. M.
1894 The Latin Language. Reprinted 1963. New York, NY: Hafner.
Maddieson, Ian
1984 Patterns ofSound. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Maisels, Charles Keith
1993 The Near East: Archaeology in the ‘Cradle of Civilization ’.
London and
New York, NY: Routledge.
Makkay, J.
1992 “A Neolithic Model of Indo-European Prehistory”. Journal of Indo-
European Studies 20:3/4.193—238.
Mallory, James P.
1989 In Search of the Indo-Europeans: Language, Archaeology and Myth.
London: Thames and Hudson.
Mann, Stuart E.
1968 An Armenian Historical Grammar in Latin Characters. London: Luzac
and Co.
1977 An Albanian Historical Grammar. Hamburg: Helmut Buske Verlag.
1984—1987 An Indo-European Comparative Dictionary. Hamburg: Helmut Buske
Verlag.
Markey, Thomas L. and John A. C. Greppin (eds.)
1990 When Worlds Collide: Indo-European and Pre-Indo-Europeans. The
Bellagio Papers. Ann Arbor, MI: Karoma.
Marlow, Elli Johanna Pudas
1974 More on the Uralo-Dravidian Relationship: A Comparison of the Uralic
and Dravidian Etymological Vocabularies. Ph.D. dissertation. University
of Texas at Austin.
Martinet, Andre
1970 Economie des changement phonetiques [Economy of Phonetic Changes],
3rd edition. Bern: Francke Verlag.
1975 Evolution des langues et reconstruction [Evolution of Languages and
Reconstruction]. Paris: Presses Universitaires de France.
1975(1953) “Remarques sur le consonantisme semitique” [“Remarks on Semitic
Consonantism”]. Evolution des langues et reconstruction [Evolution of
Languages and Reconstruction], by Andre Martinet, pp. 248—261. Paris:
Presses Universitaires de France.
1 986 Des steppes aux oceans: l ’indo-europeen et les "indo-europeens ” [From
the Steppes to the Oceans: Indo-European and the "Indo-Europeans”]
.
Paris: Payot.
Mayrhofer, Manfred
1956—1980 Kurzegefafites etymologisches Worterbuch des Altindischen [Short
Etymological Dictionary of Old Indie]. 4 volumes. Heidelberg: Carl
Winter.
256 References
1972 A Sanskrit Grammar. English translation by Gordon B. Ford, Jr.
University, AL: University of Alabama Press.
McAlpin, David W.
1981 Proto-Elamo-Dravidian: The Evidence and Its Implications.
Philadelphia, PA: American Philosophical Society.
Meillet, Antoine
1936 Esquisse d’une grammaire comparee de Varmenien classique [Sketch ofa
Comparative Grammar of Classical Armenian], 2nd edition. Vienna:
Imprimerie des Pp. Mekhitharistes.
1964 Introduction a Tetude comparative des langues indo-europeennes
[Introduction to the Comparative Study ofthe Indo-European Languages],
University, AL: University of Alabama Press. Reprint of 8th edition
(1937).
1965 Le slave commun [Common Slavic], 2nd edition revised and enlarged by
Andre Vaillant. Paris: Librairie Honore Champion.
1967 The Indo-European Dialects. English translation by N. Rosenberg.
University, AL: University of Alabama Press.
1 970 General Characteristics of the Germanic Languages. English translation
by William P. Dismukes. Coral Gables, FL: University of Florida Press.
Meillet, Antoine and Joseph Vendryes
1968 Trade de grammaire comparee des langues classiques [Treatise on the
Comparative Grammar of the Classical Languages]. 4th revised edition.
Paris: Honore Champion.
Mellaart, James
1981 “Anatolia and the Indo-Europeans”. Journal of Indo-European Studies
9:1/2.135—149.
Melchert, H. Graig
1984 Studies in Hittite Historical Phonology. Gottingen: Vandenhoeck and
Ruprecht.
1992 “Historical Phonology of Anatolian”. Journal of Indo-European Studies
21.3/4:237—257.
1994 Anatolian Historical Phonology. Amsterdam and Atlanta, GA: Editions
Rodopi B.V.
Mendeloff, Henry
1969 A Manual of Comparative Romance Linguistics: Phonology and
Morphology. Washington, DC: The Catholic University of America
Press.
Menges, Karl H.
1968 The Turkic Languages and Peoples. Wiesbaden: Otto Harrassowitz.
Michalowski, Piotr
1992 “Sumerian”. International Encyclopedia of Linguistics, ed. by William
Bright, volume 4, pp. 94—97. New York, NY, and Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
References 257
Miller, Roy Andrew
1991 “Genetic Connections among Altaic Languages”. Sprung from Some
Common Source. Investigations into the Prehistory of Languages, ed. by
Sydney M. Lamb and E. Douglas Mitchell, pp. 293—327. Stanford, CA:
Stanford University Press.
Moller, Hermann
1911 Vergleichendes indogermanisch-semitisches Worterbuch [A Comparative
Indo-European-Semitic Dictionary]. Gottingen: Vandenhoeck and
Ruprecht. Reprinted 1970.
Moscati, Sabatino (ed.)
1964 An Introduction to the Comparative Grammar of the Semitic Languages.
Wiesbaden: Otto Harrassowitz.
Mosse, Fernand
1956
Moulton, William G.
1972
Murtonen, A[dam]
1967
1989
Nichols, Johanna
1992
1993
Nissen, Hans J.
Manuel de la langue gotique [Manual of the Gothic Language], 2nd
edition. Paris: Editions Montaigne.
“The Proto-Germanic Non-Syllabics (Consonants)”. Toward a Grammar
ofProto-Germanic, ed. by Franz van Coetsem and Herbert L. Kufner, pp.
141 —173. Tubingen: MaxNiemeyer.
Early Semitic: A Diachronical Inquiry into the Relationship ofEthiopic to
the Other So-Called South-East Semitic Languages. Leiden: E. J. Brill.
Hebrew in its West Semitic Setting. Leiden: E. J. Brill.
Linguistic Diversity in Space and Time. Chicago, IL: The University of
Chicago Press.
“The Origin and Dispersal of Indo-European”. Manuscript.
1 988 The Early History ofthe Ancient Near East, 9000 — 2000 B. C. Translated
from the German by Elizabeth Lutzeier, with Kenneth J. Northcott.
Chicago, IL, and London: University of Chicago Press.
Normier, Rudolf
1977 “Idg. Konsonantismus germ. ‘Lautverschiebung’ und Vemersches Gesetz”
[Indo-European Consonantism, Germanic ‘Sound Shift’ and Vemer’s
Law] . Zeitschriftfur vergleichende Sprachforschung (KZ) 91:171 —2 1 8
.
Orel, Vladimir and Sergej Starostin
1 990 “Etruscan as an East Caucasian Language”. Proto-Languages and Proto-
Cultures, ed. by Vitaly Shevoroshkin, pp. 60—66. Bochum: Brockmeyer.
Orel, Vladimir E. and Olga V. Stolbova
1995 Hamito-Semitic Etymological Dictionary: Materials for a Reconstruction.
Leiden: E. J. Brill.
258 References
Paliga, Sorin
1989 “Proto-Indo-European, Pre-Indo-European, Old European Archaeological
Evidence and Linguistic Investigation”. Journal ofIndo-European Studies
17:3/4.309—334.
Palmer, Leonard R.
1954 The Latin Language. London: Faber and Faber.
1980 The Greek Language. Atlantic Highlands, NJ: Humanities Press.
Parpola, Asko
1994 Deciphering the Indus Valley Script. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Pedersen, Holger
1931 The Discovery ofLanguage: Linguistic Science in the Nineteenth Century.
English translation by John Webster Spargo. Midland book edition 1962.
Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press.
1938 Hittitisch und die anderen indoeuropaischen Sprachen [Hittite and the
Other Indo-European Languages], Copenhagen: Levin and Munksgaard.
1951 Die gemeinindoeuropaischen und vorindoeuropaischen Verschlufilaute
[The Common Indo-European and the Pre-Indo-European Occlusives],
Copenhagen: Munksgaard.
Pejros, Ilja I. and Viktor A. Shnirelman
1988 “In Search of the Dravidian Homeland”. Paper presented at the
symposium “Language and Prehistory”, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, November 7—12, 1988. Abstract, “Toward an Understanding of
Proto-Dravidian Prehistory”, published in Reconstructing Languages and
Cultures (1989), ed. by Vitaly Shevoroshkin, pp. 70—71. Bochum:
Brockmeyer.
Penzl, Herbert
1975 Von Urgermanischen zum Neuhochdeutschen: Eine historische
Verschlusslaute [From Proto-Germanic to New High German: An
Historical Phonology]. Berlin: Erich Schmidt Verlag.
Peters, Martin
1980 Untersuchungen zur Vertretung der indogermanischen Laryngale im
Griechischen [Investigations into the Treatment of the Indo-European
Laryngeals in Greek], Vienna: Osterreichischen Akademie der
Wissenschaften.
Petracek, Karel
1982 “La racine en indoeuropeen et en chamito-semitique et leurs perspectives
comparatives” [“The Root in Indo-European and Hamito-Semitic and their
Comparative Perspectives”]. Istituto Orientate di Napoli, Annali
42.381 —402.
References 259
Pfiffig, Ambros Josef
1969 Die Etruskische Sprache [The Etruscan Language] Graz: Akademische
Druck- und Verlaganstalt.
Picard, Marc
1994 Principles and Methods in Historical Phonology: From Proto-Algonkian
to Arapaho. Montreal: McGill-Queen’s University Press.
1995 “Issues in the Glottalic Theory of Indo-European: The Comparative
Method, Typology and Naturalness”. To appear in Word.
Pokomy, Julius
1959 Indogermanisches etymologisches Worterbuch [Indo-European
Etymological Dictionary]. Bern: Francke Verlag.
Polome, Edgar C.
1994 “Isoglosses and the Reconstruction of the IE Dialectal Split”. Journal of
Indo-European Studies 22.3/4:289—305.
Polome, Edgar C. (ed.)
1982 Indo-Europeans in the Fourth and Third Millennia. Ann Arbor, MI:
Karoma Publishers.
Poppe, Nicholas
1951 Khalkha-mongolische Grammatik [Khalkha-Mongolian Grammar].
Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz.
1955 Introduction to Mongolian Comparative Studies. Reprinted 1987.
Helsinki: Suomalais-Ugrilainen Seura.
1960 Vergleichende Grammatik der altaischen Sprachen [Comparative
Grammar of the Altaic Languages], Teil I: Vergleichende Lautlehre.
Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz.
1965 Introduction to Altaic Linguistics. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz.
1974 Grammar of Written Mongolian. Third Printing. Wiesbaden:
Harrassowitz.
Porxomovsky, J. Ja. (ed.)
1987 Afrikanskoe istoriceskoe jazykoznanie: problemy rekonstrukcij [African
Historical Linguistics: Problems ofReconstruction], Moscow: Nauka.
Poultney, James Wilson
1959 The Bronze Tablets of Iguvium. Baltimore, MD: American Philological
Society.
Prokosch, Eduard
1938 A Comparative Germanic Grammar. Baltimore, MD: Linguistic Society
of America.
Puhvel, Jaan
1974 “On Labiovelars in Hittite”. Journal of the American Oriental Society
94:291—295.
Hittite Etymological Dictionary. Berlin, New York, Amsterdam: Mouton
de Gruyter.
1984—
260 References,
1994 “Anatolian: Autochthon or Interloper?” Journal of Indo-European
Studies 22.3/4:251—263.
Pulju, Timothy James
1995 Problems in the Reconstruction of Indo-European Stop Consonants.
Ph.D. dissertation, Rice University, Houston, TX.
Pulleyblank, Edwin G.
1965 “The IE Vowel System and Qualitative Ablaut.” Word 21:86—101
.
Ramstedt, G[ustav] J[ohn]
1952—1957 Einfuhrung in die altdische Sprachwissenschaft [Introduction to Altaic
Linguistics], 2 volumes. Helsinki: Suomalais-Ugrilainen Seura.
Rasmussen, Jens Elmegard
1987 “The Make-Up of Indo-European Morphology”. Diachronica IV: 1/2.
107—122.
1989 Studien zur Morphophonemik der indogermanischen Grundsprache
[Studies on the Morphophonology of the Indo-European Parent
Language]. Innsbruck: Innsbrucker Beitrage zur Sprach-wissenschaft.
Redei, Karoly (ed.)
1986—1988 Uralisches etymologisches Worterbuch [Uralic Etymological Dictionary],
Wiesbaden: Otto Harrassowitz.
Reiner, Erica
1969 “The Elamite Language.” Altkleinasiatische Sprachen, ed. by B. Spuler,
pp. 54—118. Leiden: E. J. Brill.
Renfrew, Colin
1987 Archaeology and Language: The Puzzle of Indo-European Origins.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1991 “Before Babel: Speculations on the Origins of Human Diversity”.
Cambridge Archaeological Journal 1/1 .3—23.
1992 “Archaeology, Genetics and Linguistic Diversity”. Man 27/3.445—478.
Renfrew, Colin and Paul Bahn
1991 Archaeology: Theories, Methods, and Practice. New York, NY: Thames
and Hudson, Inc.
Rix, Helmut
1992 Historische Grammatik des Griechischen: Laut- und Formenlehre
[Historical Grammar of Greek: Phonology and Morphology]. 2nd
edition. Darmstadt: Wissenschaftliche Buchgesellschaft.
Roaf, Michael
1990 Cultural Atlas of Mesopotamia and the Ancient Near East. Oxford and
New York, NY: Facts on File (Equinox Ltd.).
Ruhlen, Merritt
1975 A Guide to the Languages of the World. Stanford, CA: Language
Universals Project, Stanford University.
A Guide to the World's Languages. Stanford, CA: Stanford University
Press.
1987
References 261
1 994 The Origin of Language: Tracing the Evolution of the Mother Tongue.
New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons.
Salmons, Joseph C.
1993 The Glottalic Theory: Survey and Synthesis. McLean, VA: Institute for the
Study of Man.
Sammallahti, Pekka
1988 “Historical Phonology of the Uralic Languages”. The Uralic Languages.
Description, History and Foreign Influences, ed. by Denis Sinor, pp. 478
—
554. Leiden: E. J. Brill.
Sarianidi, V.
1992 “Food-Producing and Other Neolithic Communities in Khorasan and
Transoxania: Eastern Iran, Soviet Central Asia and Afghanistan”. History
of Civilizations of Central Asia. Volume I: The Dawn of Civilization:
Earliest Times to 700 B.C., ed. by A. H. Dani and V. M. Masson, pp.
109—126. Paris: UNESCO.
Sasse, Hans-Jiirgen
1979 The Consonant Phonemes of Proto-East Cushitic (PEC): A First
Approximation. (= Afroasiatic Linguistics 7/1.) Malibu, CA: Undena
Publications.
1982 An Etymological Dictionary ofBurji. Hamburg: Helmut Buske Verlag.
Sathasivam, Arumugam
1965 Sumerian: A Dravidian Language. Unpublished manuscript.
Schane, Sanford A.
1973 Generative Phonology. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.
Schleicher, August
1876 Compendium der vergleichenden Grammatik der indogermanischen
Sprachen [Compendium of the Comparative Grammar of the Indo-
European Languages]
.
4th edition. Reprinted 1974. Hildesheim: Georg
Olms.
Schmalstieg, William R.
1974 An Old Prussian Grammar: The Phonology and Morphology ofthe Three
Catechisms. University Park, PA, and London: The Pennsylvania State
University Press.
1976 An Introduction to Old Church Slavic. Cambridge, MA: Slavica
Publishers, Inc.
1980 Indo-European Linguistics: A New Synthesis. University Park, PA, and
London: The Pennsylvania State University Press.
Schmidt, Karl Horst
1962 Studien zur Rekonstruktion des Lautstandes der siidkaukasischen
Grundsprache [Studies on the Reconstruction of the Sound Structure of
the South Caucasian Parent Language]. Wiesbaden: Kommissionsverlag
Franz Steiner GMBH.
262 References
Schmitt, Rudiger
1981 Grammatik des Klassisch-Armenischen [Grammar of Classical
Armenian], Innsbruck: Innsbrucker Beitrage zur Sprachwissenschaft.
Schwink, Frederick W.
1994 Linguistic Typology, Universality and the Realism of Reconstruction.
Washington, DC: Institute for the Study of Man.
Schwyzer, Eduard
1953 Griechische Grammatik [Greek Grammar], Volume I. Munich: C. H.
Beck.
Senn, Alfred
1957—1966 Handbuch der litauischen Sprache [Handbook of the Lithuanian
Language], 2 volumes. Heidelberg: Carl Winter.
Sherratt, Andrew (ed.)
1980 The Cambridge Encyclopedia of Archaeology. New York, NY: Crown
Publishers, Inc. / Cambridge University Press.
Shevelov, George Y.
1964 A Prehistory of Slavic: The Historical Phonology of Common Slavic.
New York, NY: Columbia University Press.
Shevoroshkin, Vitaly (ed.)
1989a Explorations in Language Macrofamilies. Bochum: Brockmeyer.
1989b Reconstructing Languages and Cultures. Bochum: Brockmeyer.
1990 Proto-Languages and Proto-Cultures. Bochum: Brockmeyer.
1991 Dene-Sino-Caucasian Languages. Bochum: Brockmeyer.
Shevoroshkin, Vitaly and Thomas L. Markey, Thomas L. (eds.)
1986 Typology, Relationship, and Time. Ann Arbor, MI: Karoma Publishers.
Shields, Kenneth
1982 Indo-European Noun Inflection. University Park, PA: The Pennsylvania
State University Press.
1 992 A History of Indo-European Verb Morphology. Amsterdam and
Philadelphia, PA: John Benjamins.
Sihler, Andrew L.
1995 New Comparative Gramar of Greek and Latin. New York, NY, and
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Sinor, Denis
1988 “The Problem of the Ural-Altaic Relationship”. The Uralic Languages:
Description, History and Foreign Influences, ed. by Denis Sinor, pp.
706—741. Leiden: E. J. Brill.
Sinor, Denis (ed.)
1988 The Uralic Languages: Description, History and Foreign Influences.
Leiden: E. J. Brill.
References 263
Skomal, Susan Nacev and Edgar C. Polome (eds.)
1987 Proto-Indo-European: The Archaeology ofa Linguistic Problem. Studies
in Honor ofMarija Gimbutas. Washington, DC: Institute for the Study of
Man.
Stang, Christian S.
1966 Vergleichende Grammatik der baltischen Sprachen [Comparative
Grammar ofthe Baltic Languages]
.
Oslo: Universitetsforlaget.
Starostin, Sergej A.
1991 Altajskaja problema i proisxozdenie japonskogo jazyka [The Altaic
Problem and the Origin ofthe Japanese Language]. Moscow: Nauka.
Steiner, Gerd
1990 “The Immigration of the First Indo-Europeans Into Anatolia
Reconsidered”. Journal ofIndo-European Studies 18:1/2.185—214.
Street, John
1974 On the Lexicon of Proto-Altaic: A Partial Index of Reconstructions.
Madison, WI: The Author.
Streitberg, Wilhelm
1963 Urgermanische Grammatik: Einfuhrung in das vergleichende Studium
der altgermanischen Dialekte [Proto-Germanic Grammar: Introduction
to the Comparative Study of the Old Germanic Dialects]. 3rd edition.
Heidelberg: Carl Winter.
Sturtevant, Edgar H.
1941 “The Indo-European Voiceless Aspirates”. Language 1 7:1 —11.
1942 The Indo-Hittite Laryngeals. Baltimore, MD: Linguistic Society of
America.
1951 A Comparative Grammar of the Hittite Language. Vol. I. Revised
edition. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press.
Szemerenyi, Oswald
1967 “The New Look of Indo-European: Reconstruction and Typology”.
Phonetica 17:65—99.
1972 “Comparative Linguistics”. Current Trends in Linguistics, ed. by Thomas
Sebeok, vol. 9, part I, pp. 119—195. The Hague: Mouton.
1990 Einfuhrung in die vergleichende Sprachwissenschaft [Introduction to
Comparative Linguistics], 4th edition. Darmstadt: Wissenschaftliche
Buchgesellschaft.
Thomsen, Marie-Louise
1984 The Sumerian Language: An Introduction to its History and Grammatical
Structure. Copenhagen: Akademisk Forlag.
Thumb, Albert
1958—1959 Handbuch des Sanskrit [Handbook of Sanskrit], 3rd revised edition by
Richard Hauschild. Heidelberg: Carl Winter.
264 References
Thumeysen, Rudolf
A Grammar of Old Irish. Dublin: The Dublin Institute for Advanced
Studies.
Principles of Phonology. English translation by Christiane A. Baltaxe.
Berkeley and Los Angeles, CA: University of California Press.
“Dravidian and Uralian: The Lexical Outlook”. Language 44:4.798
—
812.
“The Evidence of the Proto-Lexicon for the Cultural Background of the
Semitic Peoples”. Hamito-Semitica, ed. by James Bynon and Theodora
Bynon, pp. 55—61. The Hague: Mouton.
“Nuove ipotesi sul consonantismo protoindoeuropeo” [New Hypotheses
on Proto-Indo-European Consonantism], Studi orientali e linguistici III
(1986): miscellanea in onore di Luigi Heilmann per il 75 ° compleano
[Oriental Studies and Linguistics III (1986): Miscellanea in Honor of
Luigi Heilmann on his 75th Birthday], pp. 291—313. Bologna:
Cooperativa Libraria Universitaria Editrice Bologna.
Ungnad, Arthur and Lubor Matous
1969 Grammatik des Akkadischen [Grammar of Akkadian], Fifth revised
edition. Munich: C. H. Beck.
Vaillant, Andre
1950—1966 Grammaire comparee des langues slaves [Comparative Grammar of the
Slavic Languages]. 3 volumes. Paris: IAC (volumes I and II) / Paris:
Klincksieck (volume III).
Van Windekens, A. J.
1976—1982 Le tokharien confronts avec les autres langues indo-europeennes
[Tocharian Compared with the Other Indo-European Languages]. 3 vols.
Louvain: Centre International de Dialectologie Generate.
Vennemann, Theo
1984 “Hochgermanisch und Niedergermanisch: Die Verzweigunstheorie der
germanisch-deutschen Lautverschiebung” [High German and Low
German: Theory about the Ramifications of the Germanic-German Sound
Shift], Beitrage zur Geschichte der deutschen Sprache und Literatur
106:1—45.
Vennemann, Theo (ed.)
1989 The New Sound of Indo-European. Berlin and New York, NY: Mouton
de Gruyter.
1946
Trubetzkoy, N. S.
1969
Tyler, Stephen A.
1968
Tyloch, Witold
1975
Uguzzoni, Arianna
1986
References 265
Los indoeuropeos y los origenes de Europa: Lenguaje e historia [The
Indo-Europeans and the Origins of Europe: Language and History],
Madrid: Gredos.
Dictionnare etymologique de la langue copte [Etymological Dictionary of
the Coptic Language]. Louvain: Peeters.
“Die Verbindungen zweier Dentale und tonendes z im Indogermanischen”
[“The Connections of two Dentals and Tone-final z in Indo-European”].
Zeitschriftfur vergleichende Sprachforschung (KZ) 34.461—536.
Vergleichendes Worterbuch der indogermanischen Sprachen
[Comparative Dictionary ofthe Indo-European Languages]
.
Revised and
edited by Julius Pokomy. 3 vols. Reprinted 1973. Berlin: Walter de
Gruyter.
Walde, Alois and Johann Baptist Hofmann
1938—1956 Lateinisches etymologisches Worterbuch [Latin Etymological Dictionary].
3 vols. 5th ed. Heidelberg: Carl Winter.
Watkins, Calvert
1962 Indo-European Origins of the Celtic Verb. I. The Sigmatic Aorist.
Dublin: The Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies.
Winter, Werner (ed.)
1 965 Evidencefor Laryngeals. The Hague: Mouton.
Woudhuizen, Fred C.
1991 “Etruscan & Luwian”. Journal of Indo-European Studies 19:1/2.133
—
150.
Wright, Joseph and Elizabeth Mary Wright
1925 Old English Grammar. 3rd edition. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Zide, Arlene R. K., and Kamil V. Zvelebil
1976 The Soviet Decipherment of the Indus Valley Script: Translation and
Critique. The Hague: Mouton.
Zvelebil, Kamil V.
1970 Comparative Dravidian Phonology. The Hague: Mouton.
1977 A Sketch of Comparative Dravidian Morphology. Part I. The Hague:
Mouton.
Villar, Francisco
1991
Vycichl, Werner
1983
Walde, Alois
1897
1927—1932
Walter de Gruyter
Berlin • New York
w
DE
G
Allan R. Bomhard and John C. Kerns
The Nostratic Macrofamily
A Study in Distant Linguistic Relationship
Trends in Linguistics. Studies and Monographs 74
1994. XII, 932 pages. Cloth. DM 298.00 (approx. US$ 195.00)
ISBN 3-1 1-013900-6
Mouton de Gruyter
This monograph deals with the comparison of Proto-Indo-European with
various languages and language families of northern Eurasia, Central Asia, the
Iranian plateau, the Indian subcontinent, the Near East, and northern Africa to
determine whether or not there is evidence for a genetic relationship. The
authors conclude that the evidence points strongly to a genetic relationship
within the framework of a “Nostratic macrofamily”. Emphasis is placed upon
traditional methodologies such as the Comparative Method and Internal
Reconstruction.
Walter de Gruyter, Inc., 200 Saw Mill River Road, Hawthorne, NY 10532, USA
Phone (914) 747-0110 FAX (914) 747-1326
“The computer-printed copy of the book which lies before me is probably
the most important contribution to Nostratic linguistics to date. It includes a
vocabulary of circa 650 Common Nostratic stems, i.e., stems present in all or
some of the six linguistic families of the Nostratic macrofamily plus Sumerian; a
new system of phonological reconstructions is suggested, and important new
conclusions are presented. This is certainly an excellent work and is going to be a
vademecum for all scholars interested in long-range comparisons.”
Igor M. Diakonoff
St. Petersburg, Russia
>I<
DESKTOP PUBLISHING
CHARLESTON. SOUTH CAROLINA
$30.00 ISBN 0-9652294-0-8
