1.5.2 Migration, contact and bilingualism
Peru has been a cradle of cultures and keeps attracting migrants from around
the globe as conﬁrmed by the latest migration wave from Spain. The global
extra-linguistic factors relevant to the present study of Limeño Spanish contact
varieties involve the consequences of at least two large-scale migrations. The
ﬁrst of these, from Seville to the Americas in the second half of the sixteenth
century, resulted in dialect levelling. A second series of migrations from educa-
tionally and socioeconomically neglected rural areas to the capital Lima began
in nineteen fourty and led to a loss of indigenous languages, to passive and
non-functional bilingualism, and to a new contact phenomenon on a very large
scale. In a mere seventy years Lima’s population grew from sixhundred and
sixty thousand to ten million. At the start of the second migration period, over
half of Peru’s population spoke an indigenous language (mainly Quechua), but
by nineteen eighty only one-fourth of migrants spoke an indigenous language.
Escobar (2000: 3) estimates that by the end of the nineteen eighties approxi-
mately sixty percent of those not only spoke their indigenous language but also
Spanish. Within roughly ﬁfty years, a signiﬁcant language shift had taken place.
Amerindian migrants from the Andean and Amazon regions primarily speak
Quechua, Aymara, or Amazonian languages with Ashaninka and Shipibo as the
two major language families, as well as one of the two major Spanish dialects:
Andean Spanish or Amazonian Spanish. The third major dialect is coastal Spanish,
with Lima Spanish representing the prestigious coastal norm. Their proﬁciency
in Lima Spanish before and after migration can be correlated with educational
opportunities and the perceived lower prestige of their indigenous languages.
This situation diﬀers signiﬁcantly from other important ethnic migrant com-
munities in Lima, such as French, German, Japanese and Chinese. Language/
dialect contact here applies to all speakers, monolingual13 or bilingual, who
have been in contact with Andean Spanish, Amazonian Spanish, Quechua, and
Aymara dialects, or one of the many Amazonian languages. The importance of
the urban/rural divide in terms of acces to formal education plays an important
role in standardization.
Speakers of Limeño Spanish contact varieties show a range of language/
dialect contact with highly variable degrees of linguistic competence in either
of their languages/dialects, caused by diﬀerences in migration and educational
13 I include monolinguals due to undereducation. I use this term to express too little or poor
education mainly caused by lack of access and/or very poorly trained teachers, which is the
case for practically all Limeño Spanish contact varieties speakers.
Sociohistory 15
background. They are either Andean Spanish L114 speakers with non-functional
L2 Quechua, or Quechua L1 speakers with L2 Andean Spanish, or monolingual
Quechua or Andean Spanish speakers. The same patterns apply to migrants
from Amazonian areas with their indigenous languages.
Bilingualism involving indigenous languages is nominal rather than func-
tional, in spite of the fact that Peru was the ﬁrst Latin American country to
incorporate language policies into its constitution in 1970 (Escobar 1990, 1994;
Mannheim 1984; Pozzi-Escot 1972, 1975; Rivarola 1992). This is the phenomenon
known as subtractive bilingualism, which involves shifting from an ethnic
language to a prestigious national language by subtracting the less prestigious
minority language from bilingual proﬁciency (Appel and Muysken 1987: 102).15 It
is very likely that bilingual speakers fuse the range of options from their two
systems to fulﬁl their communicative need, which in bilingual speakers results
in a simpliﬁed clitic system (Matras 2013). The Peruvian Andean region formerly
represented a bilingual continuum; an interesting question is if and to what
extent this is still true today (Cerrón Palomino 1992, 2003; Lipski 2007a; Pérez
1997).
Cerrón Palomino (1995) argues that the prestigious coastal Spanish norm –
generally in Peru but more speciﬁcally Lima Spanish – is under strong pressure
from Andean Spanish. The observed variability is much more generalised than
we can actually perceive, and the general view of Peruvian linguists is that we
are deﬁnitely witnessing a language change in ﬂagrante. Data from TV shows,
advertisements, and spoken language in public transport corroborate this view,
although less so from newspapers. The latest discussions about the linguistic
landscape in Lima have raised doubts about the validity of the term Lima
Spanish and have opted instead for a more realistic description, calling it “a
space where varieties of the Spanish language coexist.”
In my view, this “space” is ideally represented by the feature pool couched
in an evolutionary model (Mufwene 2001, 2002). As shown in Figure 1.1, input
from idiolectal systems or dialect contact, and xenolectal input or language
contact, contribute to the feature pool in terms of subsets of features wich are
constrained by language ecological factors such as input from social networks
and diﬀering levels of access to formal instruction. Idiolectal output systems
reﬂect the selection of the best candidate from these competing features in
the pool.
14 L1 = ﬁrst language, L2 = second language
15 A recent European example are Turkish migrants in Germany and Austria, which have
resulted in the creation of a new network language, Kanakisch, which is spoken by young
people (generally under 25 years old) in Germany from many diﬀerent ethnic backgrounds.
The interesting fact is that all four oblique cases have collapsed in favour of the dative.
16 Introduction
Figure 1.1: Feature pool (Mufwene 2001, 2002)16
Feature selection is largely unconscious and not deliberately targeted because of
the ecological constraints. In bilingual contexts, feature selection is particularly
susceptible to diﬀerent levels of access to formal instruction in the language,
understood as lack of standardizing input, and input from social networks. In
contact situations with typologically diﬀerent languages, new conﬁgurations of
mapping of functional features e.g. gender, number and case onto a particular
morpheme can lead to convergence towards a single set of features that is
shared by both languages (Sánchez 2003; Matras 2010). Importantly, not all
factors are weighted equally. Diﬀerent weightings of contact and ecological
factors leads to coexistence of diﬀerent variants in competition with each other.
The lack of standardizing input is largely due to the fact that the variability
is largely restricted to spoken language. As such it arises from the naturalistic
acquisition setting, with a strong focus on practical communication. Crucially,
Limeño Spanish contact varieties, Andean Spanish, Amazonian Spanish, Amer-
indian and Amazonian languages share an important aspect: they are mostly
oral languages without an established written standard (Escobar 2000; Givón
1988). It is a well-known fact that clitic systems as part of functional morphology
are subject to variability in bilingual acquisition (McCarthy 2008). However, as
the observed variability is not restricted to bilingual Spanish nor constrained
by geographic location – and there is evidence of extensive leísmo as sole object
marking system in Quiteño, Paraguayan Spanish, and Basque Spanish – it
can be assumed that the observed morphosyntactic variability is not to be linked
simply to ‘ungrammaticality’ but is indeed part of a wider picture pointing to
language change in progress.
1.6 Contact and change
“All syntactic change involves variation”, and for a while old and new coexist
for some time. These words by Aitchison (2001: 98) truly apply to the Limeño
16 Figure 1.1 is inspired by the representation of the feature pool idea in: http://mufwene.
uchicago.edu/feature_pool.html.
Contact and change 17
Spanish contact varieties data. In Ecuador, where Spanish is in direct contact
with Amerindian languages, the shift from accusative to dative has been all
but completed in dissociating the patient semantic role of the direct object.
In Peruvian contact, however, the invariant lo strategy coexists with a leísmo
strategy peculiar to contact Spanish. Recall for example the scalar clitic system
in Table 1.3. There seems to be an Andean continuum, which is synonymous
with rural conditions, precisely expressed by Cerrón Palomino (2003: 190) as
“español rural” (rural Spanish), which has served as the only inter-community
language in the region for almost ﬁve hundred years. Here we ﬁnd the same
inter- and intraspeaker variability at diﬀerent stages of evolution, based on
extra-linguistic factors favouring and accelerating an ongoing reanalysis process
in the third-person pronominal paradigm. In Andean Spanish, language-external
factors – such as intense and prolonged contact and second language acquisi-
tion – are not all present in every case, but when they are present they can
give rise to complexity through transfer and interaction as well as functional
interference and convergence (Sánchez 2003, 2010). The Andean region is a
“verdadero melting pot idiomático” (true language melting pot) as noted by Cerrón
Palomino (2003: 161) and now the same applies to Lima, the capital of Peru.
Questions then arise, such as, why lo and what is the function of this
invariant form? Is it a topicality or transitivity marker, or both, coexisting at a
particular stage in language change? The short answer is that, as the least
marked of all clitics, it has the widest distributional possibilities and hence is
the best candidate for new functions. Bosque and Moreno (1990) analyze lo
as an invariable but versatile form able to take on multiple functions. Lo can
refer to individual entities, qualitative properties, and quantities. How can we
account for the diﬀerences between Ecuadorian Spanish, Andean Spanish, and
Limeño Spanish contact varieties and why does only one of them exhibit almost
complete leísmo and the other the invariant lo phenomenon? Two plausible
explanations have been oﬀered to explain the diﬀerences in the Quechua
dialects between the two countries. One of them emphasizes the diﬀerence in
contact between Lima and Quito with the latter characterized by uninterrupted
intense contact between Spanish and Quechua. Further, Muysken (1984) argues
that the crucial diﬀerence between Ecuadorian Quechua and the Southern
Quechua spoken in Peru is a fundamental diﬀerence in subject-predicate agree-
ment. Whereas southern Quechua shows agreement, Ecuadorian Quechua lacks
it. Apart from treating invariant lo as a result of a contact-induced change, it
could also be argued that invariant lo represents an intermediate stage during
language shift in the sense of Matras (1998, 2013).
In fact, assuming that the process of language change is a gradual change
(Croft 2000), both Muysken’s and Matras’ theories apply. Since not all linguistic
18 Introduction
features shift at the same time, diﬀerent variants may coexist even in the same
text (Croft 2000; Joseph and Janda 2003; Kroch 1994). The commonly accepted
idea of gradualness of change is evident in my Limeño Spanish contact varieties
corpus, where coexistence of variant forms is present even within an individual’s
grammar. Also, the change in clitic doubling has been gradual with the ﬁrst
reanalysis process in terms of liberal direct object clitic doubling in River Plate
and Lima Spanish to mark highly topical direct objects. Also, as mentioned
before, clitics have undergone a reanalysis process from feature-specifying
agreement markers to featureless object markers. Both reanalysis processes
concerning the argument marking system in certain Spanish varieties ﬁnd an
endpoint in extensive leísmo in Ecuador and Paraguay where lo survives as an
anaphor in certain areas only, e.g. in the Ecuadorian Highlands (Haboud 1997;
Palacios 2002 ; Suñer and Yépez 1988). Another example for gradualness of lan-
guage change is presented by the gradual loss of dative experiencer subjects
from Old to Early Modern English (Allen 1995) and a gradual shift from object-
verb word order to verb-object in Early Middle English (Allen 2000).
Another intriguing question concerns the grammaticalization process of the
formative a, and its inﬂuence on the language, given the fact that neighbouring
countries in a similar contact situation do not show exactly the same process
and phenomena. It is a well-known fact that language contact speeds up inter-
nal change (van Coetsem 1995 ). Is this due to the permeability of a grammar,
allowing for convergence and transfer of similar structures in contact languages?
Manning (2003: 314) suggests the following gradual change scenario. He argues
that at ﬁrst prescriptive commentators on language start to condemn the innova-
tion. Next, if the innovation continues to spread, general usage is still con-
demned, but softens as it “may be allowed under certain circumstances”. And
in the end ambiguity of the analysis of both versions allows the new usages to
become generally diﬀused.
1.7 Variability in language
The extensive inter- as well as intra-speaker variability in the data from the
Limeño Spanish contact varieties corpus raises several questions. Can we ﬁnd
a principled pattern in the apparent random variation? Is there a principled
relationship to semantic and pragmatic motivation? These questions are the
basic starting point to my descriptive analysis in this book and they all will be
answered with ‘yes’.
There is no doubt that diversity and variability in natural language is by no
means rare but expected and ever present. Variation and change are closely
connected phenomena, but while change entails variation, the mere existence
Variability in language 19
of variation does not imply change. The parts of the grammar aﬀected by
variation and leading to change apply according to Wanner (1997: 221) to
“. . . peripheral, accessible portions of grammar (parameter settings, agreement,
lexicon), rather than to the basic structures and their systemic cohesion (phrase
structure and basic principles).” This is certainly the case for the variation in
the double object marking strategies we observe in Limeño Spanish contact
varieties and elsewhere in Peninsular, and in Latin American Spanish generally,
in contact areas.
Language variation has always played a central role in sociolinguistic studies.
Previous studies have argued that morphosyntactic variation is much more com-
plex and diﬃcult to describe and analyze than for example phonological variation
for a number of reasons, among them frequency of occurrence and diﬃculty of
ﬁnding enough data in naturally occurring language (Silva-Corvalán 2001). The
diﬃculty is compounded by the fact that the observed phonological, lexical,
morphosyntactic and pragmatic variation cannot be traced back to geographical
origin as mentioned by Caravedo (1990: 34).
Furthermore Caravedo (1990, 1993) and Landa (1995) argue that syntactic
variation can only indirectly be associated with extra-linguistic factors such as
social class, language style, and register, among others it is mainly conditioned
by language-internal factors of syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic nature. In
particular, they suggest that morphosyntactic covariation should be interpreted
in terms of communicative strategies, referentiality issues, or syntactic factors
including object marking among others. Internal factors cannot be directly com-
pared with extra-linguistic factors, which remain core sociolinguistic issues;
making the correlation diﬃcult unless internal factors can be controlled. These
ﬁndings are corroborated in a detailed study of Quechua Spanish bilinguals by
Escobar (1990) who concludes that the variation is probably due to semantic
and pragmatic strategies peculiar to non-native Spanish speakers.
Adger (2015: 15), in discussing multifarious factors in extensive dialectal
variation from a Minimalist perspective, takes an extreme view by assuming
that the syntax or grammar remains untouched by sociolinguistic information.
Instead he suggests that the individual speaker selects the most appropriate fea-
tures to express either pragmatic or semantic information. Applying this concept
to the Limeño Spanish contact varieties speakers (migrants or not) for example,
these would reorganise and adapt the features to ﬁnally relink them to new
functions. As discussed before in 1.5.2, this view is probably quite compatible
with the evolutionary model of competitive selection from a feature pool
(Mufwene 2001).
For many years, work in Lexical-Functional Grammar (Bresnan 2001c;
Dalrymple 2001; Falk 2001) has not only addressed language change and dialect
20 Introduction
variation (Vincent 2001) but included microvariation as in non-standardized
variation (Bresnan and Deo 2000; Bresnan, Deo and Sharma 2007). Also, as
a lexicalist-functionalist theory, structures and constraints can be linked to
incorporate linear order and information structure. As Bresnan (1998: 30)17
remarks: “Yet anyone who has worked with primary data from non-standardized
languages (or from non-standardized linguistic phenomena) knows that varia-
tion is far more extensive than is recognised in the generative literature.” This
can be extended to extensive intra- as well as interspeaker variation, culminat-
ing in some stages of evolution in free variation.
Free variation, that is co-occurrence of marked and unmarked forms com-
peting for the same function, may be due to diﬀerent social registers “leading
to the presence of closely related sociolinguistically competing grammars”
(Bresnan 2001b: 5) arising from dialectal variability and optionality as a natural
co-occurrence, with the former giving rise to the latter. Variability within one
single grammar does not entail the existence of multiple grammars in a single
speaker; it rather means that the multiple variants within one grammar relate
to several diﬀerent functions.
For example, in Limeño Spanish contact varieties, the optional double object
marking strategy allows speakers to use either clitic feature agreement or object
agreement with a featurally unmarked form to mark the information structural
role of the primary object which is the secondary topic18. The ﬁrst is a semantic
strategy which uses marked forms, and the second is a pragmatic strategy using
a featurally unmarked invariant form. Dynamic competition of these morpho-
syntactic forms leads to competing grammars, a process that contributes to
language change. Both mark essentially the same grammatical relation, but are
motivated by diﬀerent semantic and pragmatic strategies, or, as Bresnan (1998:
59) puts it, “word structure ‘competes’ with phrase structure in specifying the
same grammatical relations.”
Syncretism and featurally unmarked forms trigger syntactic ambiguity prob-
lems: they can have more than one meaning, as will be shown speciﬁcally in
leísmo examples throughout this book.
It is clear from the above discussion that explaining and structuring the
abundant variability which exists in bilingual contexts into a coherent and cohe-
sive argument is a continuing challenge. In this book, I combine formal and
functional theories most relevant to the topic, because this allows for a broad
17 The page number here refers to the PDF downloaded from downloadable papers on www.
stanford.edu/ bresnan/publications/index.html.
18 With this pragmatic strategy, the subject, which is the primary topic, aims at underlining the
close relationship it has with the primary object or the secondary topic.
Variability in language 21
but precise treatment of the topic, including all extragrammatical inﬂuences.
The resulting theoretical considerations will help understand more fully what
kinds of conditions lead to variability and what factors are likely to bring about
change.19 I believe this endeavour can be a fertile meeting point for typological,
sociolinguistic and generative theories which readily incorporate variable data
and optionality into their syntactic theory. An example of such an enterprise is
Muysken’s (2013) attempt to model and interpret language contact phenomena,
more speciﬁcally speakers’ bilingual strategies in speciﬁc environments, in an
Optimality Theoretical Framework.
1.8 Theoretical framework
The descriptive theoretical analysis of the variability and changes in argument
marking in Limeño Spanish contact varietes is based on Lexical-Functional
Grammar, which is a lexicalist, constraint-based theory based on a parallel archi-
tecture developed by Joan Bresnan and Ron Kaplan in the nineteenseventies.
Bresnan, a syntactician concerned with psycholinguistic evidence against trans-
formations in Chomsky’s Transformational Grammar, developed an alternative
approach with strong emphasis on the lexicon (Bresnan 1978). Collaboration
with Kaplan, a computational psycholinguist, led to the creation of a formal
system for the representation of grammatical relations (Kaplan and Bresnan
1982). The modular nature of this theory allows to adequately represent and
realistically model the psychological and computational processes of gram-
matical structure, synchronic and diachronic variability and language change.
The theory uses a clean and simple formal framework to formulate linguistic
theory which allows for additions (Bresnan 1982, 2001a, 2001b; Bresnan et al.
2016; Dalrymple 2001; Falk 2001; Kroeger 2004).
Unlike other generative linguistic theories, movement and transformations and
their underlying assumptions do not play a role in constraint-based approaches,
which include Lexical-Functional Grammar and related theories such as Head-
Driven Phrase Structure Grammar (Pollard and Sag 1994). Instead, these
approaches allow for the representation of the diﬀerent aspects of linguistic
structure and how those relate to each other in a parallel architecture whose
main parts include constituent structure, functional structure and argument
structure. Syntactic structure is represented in two ways: constituent structure
19 I refer the reader to Bresnan (2007), who oﬀers an excellent synoptic view of the changing
ﬁeld of generative linguistics and the necessity of opening up the ﬁeld to typological studies
and statistical methods in order to enable adequate analysis of all possible languages.
22 Introduction
and functional structure. The linear organisation of words in sentences is repre-
sented on constituent structure in the form of phrase-structure trees. Important
to note is that constituent structure is independent from functional structure
where grammatical functions and relations such as subject, object, adjunct,
and predicate-argument relations are represented in an attribute value matrix.
In chapter three, section four I show how clitic doubling is analyzed in this
framework and in chapter six, sections four and ﬁve I treat object alternations in
accordance with Lexical-Functional Grammar. The book can be read and under-
stood without these parts.
1.9 Organisation of the book
Chapter 2 provides an overiew of clitic morphology, clitic placement and surface
constraints, and brieﬂy exposes the reanalysis processes aﬀecting clitics. I use a
ﬁne-grained clitic typology (Toivonen 2003) to accommodate special functions
of the direct oject clitics.
Chapter 3 discusses casemarking in Spanish and the syntax-semantics-
information structure interfaces of accusative clitics in clitic doubling, clitic left
and clitic right dislocated constructions, and diﬀerential object marking. Next I
discuss in detail the interaction of the referential categories animacy, deﬁnite-
ness and speciﬁcity licensing direct object clitic doubling. This is followed by a
brief Lexical-Functional Grammar account in the last section.
Chapter 4 illustrates the division of labour between head-marking (by clitics)
and dependent-marking (by diﬀerential object marking), and its eﬀect on informa-
tion structure; it is divided into two parts. Part one treats the diachronic devel-
opment of diﬀerential object marking and two-dimensional diﬀerential object
marking from a cross-linguistic point of view with reference to typological
studies of this topic (Aissen 2003; Bossong 1991). I propose a model to deal
with the parallel evolution of diﬀerential object marking and the concurrent
grammaticalization processes aﬀecting clitics. In part two, I apply a new diﬀer-
ential object marking theory (Dalrymple and Nikolaeva 2011; Nikolaeva 2001)
which allows for the important distinction between feature-specifying clitics as
topicality markers in liberal clitic doubling dialects, and invariant clitic forms
as proper secondary topic markers in Limeño Spanish contact varieties. This
approach is critical because it shows that the variability is not a general break-
down of order, or one aﬀecting unstressed little words, but a phenomenon ap-
plying more generally to certain kinds of grammatical structures.
Chapter 5 presents morphosyntactic variability from Limeño Spanish contact
varieties and a range of Latin American Spanish dialects in comparison with
data from Peninsular Spanish dialects, Basque Spanish, and Brazilian Portuguese.
Organisation of the book 23
I argue that individual variability reﬂects dialect variability, and both represent
samples of possible grammars within the same typological space (Bresnan, Deo
and Sharma 2007: 302). Inherent variability may be constrained by categorical
(prescriptive) grammar, or lead through variable grammars to language change.
Chapter 6 focusses on language contact and how contact as an external
factor – together with internal changes – may be linked to language change
in progress. I base this hypothesis on the existence of similar structures and
pragmatic strategies in the genetically unrelated contact languages, claiming
that these have percolated through the mediating contact language Andean
Spanish into Limeño Spanish contact varieties and other contact varieties. I
also link contact to primary and secondary object marking (Dryer 1986) and
discuss semantic motivations for object alternations.
Chapter 7 is an overview and summary of the arguments presented.
24 Introduction
Chapter 2
The nature of clitics
This chapter oﬀers an in-depth analysis of clitic morphology, clitic placement,
surface constraints, and the reanalysis processes aﬀecting clitics. A case in point
is the spread of syncretism in the clitic paradigm of Latin American Spanish,
which shows an almost complete merger of the second and third person. Third
person clitics display a singular concentration of person, number and gender
features, split into dative and accusative cases, marking indirect and direct
objects, respectively. I propose a ﬁne-grained distinction between ﬁrst and
second person clitics and third person indirect and direct object clitics on the
one hand, and the invariant third person clitic lo, including with some restric-
tions the gender-specifying clitic la, on the other. In chapter four some of these
changes will be treated as grammaticalization and linked to topicality and
secondary topic marking.
2.1 Background
An intriguing aspect of the grammar of Romance clitics is their morphology,
especially their status as either independent (free) syntactic forms subcate-
gorized by the verb, or inﬂectional aﬃxes (agreement morphology), a debate
that dates back to Sapir (1921: chapter 5). I base the following discussion on the
generally accepted assumption that aﬃxes are bound elements (which cannot
occur in isolation), rather than independent words (which are free and syntacti-
cally active/visible). The morphology-syntax mismatch inherent in the concept
of a clitic means that neither the ‘free’ category nor the ‘independent’ category
can be deﬁned in a clear-cut manner, since the criteria used are gradual and
not absolute. A further diﬃculty is that the categories are deﬁned in negative
terms, as will be shown in Kayne’s test for clitichood below. Clitics, in short,
are notoriously diﬃcult to deﬁne and classify: they seem to live and move
between the interfaces of phonology, morphology, syntax and discourse. The
morphological categorization of Spanish pronominal third person clitics as aﬃx
or word is aﬀected by all these uncertainties.
Van Riemsdijk’s introduction to clitic syntax in European Languages (1999)
exposes the complex nature of clitic phenomena. Spencer and Luís (2012: 328)
oﬀer a broad perspective on what they call ‘linguistic beasts’ as well as analysis
of clitic-related phenomena across a wide range of languages in a variety of
theoretical frameworks. They raise the question whether ‘clitic’ as a discrete
category even exists, but ﬁnd it useful as an umbrella term for elements that
DOI 10.1515/9781614514213-002
show the phonological properties of aﬃxes and distribution as function words.
Everett (1996) goes even further and denies the existence of clitics as a morpho-
syntactic category altogether.1
In view of these debates about the nature of clitics it is worthwhile to review
the conclusions reached within diﬀerent theoretical frameworks. In generative
theories, the treatment of clitics is either via a movement approach or a base
generation approach. The ﬁrst well-elaborated movement analysis was Kayne
(1975) for French. In a Government and Binding (GB) framework he advanced
the view that clitics satisfy the subcategorization requirements of their verbal
host by moving from argument position into their respective clitic position –
either proclitic or enclitic – obeying surface structure constraints and ﬁlters
(Perlmutter 1971), and leaving behind a trace in the source position. The move-
ment analysis works well for French (and for Italian) because clitics and their
arguments are in complementary distribution. Co-occurrence of clitics and their
arguments in Spanish and Romanian, however, makes a movement analysis
problematic.
Base generation analyses (Borer 1983, 1986; Jaeggli 1982; Lyons 1990; Suñer
1988) treat clitics as agreement markers coindexed with a small pronoun in
argument position; the clitic is base-generated in its actual surface structure.
In clitic doubling the argument position can be ﬁlled by the referential noun
phrase. This analysis accommodates the double function of clitics as pronominal
clitics and agreement markers, functions which have in common attachment to
the verb, but which diﬀer in two important respects:
1. Obligatory with or without overt and non-overt arguments (agreement markers).
2. Show constraints on co-occurrence with overt arguments and can be subject
to clitic climbing (pronominal clitics).
As discussed in chapter one, the constraint-based theory of Lexical-Functional
Grammar rejects structural transformation including movement and scrambling.
Therefore, only non-movement analyses, such as base generation, are compatible
with this theory.
Zwicky (1977) coined the terms special clitics and simple clitics to draw a
distinction based on syntactic properties. Simple clitics have two forms, a phono-
logically reduced and a full form, that occur in the same position and perform
the same role. English, for example, has reduced forms ‘s’ or ‘d’ that can be
1 A very comprehensive bibliographic compilation of work up to 1991 is given in Nevis, Joseph,
Wanner and Zwicky (1994). Gerlach and Grijjzenhout (2000) provide an overview of diﬀerent
clitic phenomena at the phonology, morphology and syntax interfaces from various perspectives.
26 The nature of clitics
used instead of the full form is/has, would/have (Zwicky 1985: 295). Special
clitics have no alternative form and their special character is related to syntax
and semantics. They occur in special positions, for example in second position
in Slavic languages, or in Romance languages where they can attach to a verb,
and in Warlpiri where they can attach to the tense marker auxiliary either
as special clitics or as aﬃxes. According to these criteria, Spanish pronominal
clitics are normally categorized as special clitics. Zwicky (1985: 289) claims that
“clitics are more marked than either inﬂectional aﬃxes or independent syntactic
units (i.e. words)” based on the ‘Zwicky and Pullum criterion’ (Zwicky and
Pullum 1983), which is a series of tests that allows diﬀerentiation between
clitics, aﬃxes and words.2
Proposals for regarding clitics as inﬂectional aﬃxes come from linguists
working in a variety of formal frameworks. For example, in a Principles and
Parameters framework, Zagona (1988: 129, fn12) analyzes Spanish clitics as “inﬂec-
tional (person, number and gender) spellout of the Case feature of the head” as
shown in (16), where the the clitic agrees with the gender and number feature of
the lexical head ‘Juan’.
(16) Lo vimos a Juan.
CL3MSG see-PAST-1PL DOM Juan.MSG
‘We saw Juan.’
A similar analysis for French is Miller’s (1992) who qualiﬁes French clitics as
part of the morphological inﬂection of the verb.
The view that Romance direct object clitics are independent syntactic ele-
ments adjoined to functional heads is taken by Kayne (1989; 1990) and Uriagereka
(1995), with Torres Cacoullos (2002) principally discussing subject clitics.
Other authors focus on typology in a minimalist framework, for instance,
Franks and Holloway King (2000) provide a very detailed analysis of Slavic
clitics; or, on Romance interfaces such as Monachesi (2005), an extension from
work on Italian clitics in Monachesi (1999) in Head-driven Phrase Structure
Grammar, a uniﬁcation-based framework closely related to Lexical-Functional
Grammar. Using various theoretical frameworks, Miller and Monachesi (2003)
oﬀer a very comprehensive discussion of Romance clitics, including object,
subject and adverbial clitics. Work on morphology and clitic placement can
be found in Halpern (1995) and Halpern and Zwicky (1996). More recently com-
bined with Optimality Theory, Anderson (2005) provides a very comprehensive
2 For an opposing view of special clitics in favour of treating clitics as aﬃxes see Bermúdez-
Otero and Payne (2011).
Background 27
discussion of simple and special clitics at the prosody-syntax interface. The collec-
tion of papers in the edited volume Challenging clitics (Meklenborg Salvesen and
Helland 2013) presents research on a wide range of clitic-related phenomena in
a variety of theoretical approaches and extends it to lesser studied languages
and Romance varieties (Asturian and Cajun French). This is to name only some
inﬂuential works; the list is by no means exhaustive.
In comparison to other frameworks, relatively little work on clitics is avail-
able in Lexical-Functional Grammar and linguists often resort to ‘I know one
when I see one’ (Holloway King 2005). However, various accounts taking diﬀer-
ent points of view have been proposed for several languages. For example,
second position clitics (Wackernagel clitics) have been analyzed for Warlpiri
by Simpson (1991), for Tagalog by Kroeger (1993), and for English and Serbo-
Croatian by O’Connor (2002, 2004) with the last two focusing on the interaction
of prosody and discourse structure. Hindi discourse clitics have been described
by Sharma (2003), Wescoat (2002, 2005) provides an analysis of morphology-
syntax mismatches for English auxiliary contraction with lexical sharing. Bögel,
Butt and Sulger (2008) explore the morphology-syntax interface in the Urdu
ezafe construction. See Wescoat (2009) for person marking, and lexical integrity
in Udi, and Dione (2013) for clitic surface position and lexical integrity in Wolof.
More recent work concentrates on clitic syntax and prosody and modelling
resulting interfaces (Bögel 2010; Bögel, Butt, Kaplan, Holloway King and Maxwell
III 2009, 2010) and on the prosody-semantics interface (Dalrymple and Mycock
2011). See Lowe (2011, 2014, 2015) for diachronic work on prosody and accented
clitics in Rgvedic Sanskrit and prosodic constraints in Ancient Greek and Pashto
in Optimality Theory.
Syntactic analyses for Romance clitics have been proposed for French by
Grimshaw (1982a), and for Spanish spurious se3 (which is the use of se for le in
clitic cluster, e.g. le lo → se lo) by Grimshaw (2001); for Italian and French by
Schwarze (2001).
2.2 Romance clitichood: bound or free forms
Clitic systems across the Romance languages are quite comparable and uniform,
with the notable exception of a lack of locative clitics in the Iberian subgroup
Spanish and Portuguese (Spencer and Luís 2012: 34).
3 For the spurious se rule see this chapter sections 5.1 and 5.2.
28 The nature of clitics
European Portuguese (EP) displays a mixed clitic system, in many ways
similar to Spanish, but showing important diﬀerences. In Luís and Otoguro (2005)
proclitics are treated as ‘phrasal’ aﬃxes that are syntactically independent;
enclitics are seen as stem-level aﬃxes producing an inﬂectional string. The mixed
clitic system in Spanish patterns in a very similar way to European Portuguese,
with three signiﬁcant diﬀerences. Firstly, Spanish enclitics in (17b) do not trigger
stem allomorphy4 as EP enclitics in (17a) or clitic allomorphy (18a).5
(17) European Portuguese (Luís and Otoguro 2005: 256–257)
a. Levamo-la. *Levamosla.
take-1PL=CL3FSG
‘We will take her.’
Standard Spanish
b. Llevémosla.
take-1PL=CL3FSG
‘Let’s take her.’
However, they share person and case syncretism as demonstrated in (18). For
Spanish syncretism see Tables 2, 3 and 4 in section 2.1.1 below.
(18) European Portuguese (Luís and Otoguro 2005: 256–257)
a. Deu-lho(*lhe-o).
gave-DAT.CL3SG/PL-ACC.CL3MSG
‘S/he gave it to him/them.’
Standard Spanish
b. Se lo dio.
CL3SG CL3MSG give-PAST-3SG
‘S/he gave it to her/him/them.’
The second remarkable diﬀerence is that European Portuguese proclitics can
take scope over a coordinated phrase; Portuguese seems to be unique in this
among the Romance languages. Note the proclitic lho is a portmanteau cluster.
4 Phonological conditioning by assimilation or merging leaving the meaning unchanged.
5 Notable exceptions are the hortative vámonos instead of *vámosnos ‘let’s go’, and the con-
traction of the masculine deﬁnite determiner el to al following the preposition a. Both facts
without doubt count towards an aﬃx theory, but even with the latter crossing word boundaries
an incorporation analysis cannot be motivated.
Romance clitichood: bound or free forms 29
(19) European Portuguese (Spencer and Luís 2012: 207)
Nós sabemos que a Maria
PRO.1PL know.1PL that DET.FSG Maria
lho comprou e ofereceu à noite.
DAT.3SG/ACC.3MSG buy-PAST-3SG and oﬀer-PAST-3SG PREP night
‘We know that Maria bought it for him/her in the morning and gave it
(to him/her) in the evening.’
Thirdly, proclitics in European Portuguese can be separated from their host verb
by lexical items.6 Klavans (1985) argues that Romance clitics are an “odd sort of
aﬃx” rather than an “odd sort of clitic” because of their placement as a lexical
head with a verbal host (Luis and Spencer 2012: 47).
Enclitics are stem-level inﬂectional aﬃxes morphologically attached to a
verbal host (Andrews 1990; Spencer and Luís 2012).
The mismatch between the normally bound status and this looser rule creates
problems for a Lexical-Functional Grammar treatment where the representation of
phrasal aﬃxes or special clitics on c-structure puts the lexical integrity principle7
at risk (Bresnan 2001c).
Based on a series of criteria, Kayne (1975: 81) argues that French clitics
are “closely bound” to the verb and as such that they cannot be “attached as a
sister to the verb”, however they form a constituent with the verb.8 Examples
(20) to (24) use some of these criteria to illustrate the Spanish opposition of
strong versus clitic pronouns.
A clitic cannot be modiﬁed (20a) but a strong pronoun can be (20b).
(20) a. *Juan los a todos invita.
John CL3MPL DOM QUANT invite-3SG
‘John invites all of them.’
b. Juan los invita a todos ellos.
John CL3MPL invite-3SG DOM QUANT PRO3MPL
‘John invites all of them.’
6 As noted by Luís and Otoguro (2005) up to two adverbials can intervene between the verb
and the proclitic. This fact could point towards an analysis of these proclitics as weak pronouns.
7 This principle is based on the lexicalist idea that syntactic structure and word structure
(morphology) are distinct and separate, see also chapter 3.4.
8 For a very thorough discussion of the complexity of clitic placement and complex predicates
in Romance see Manning (1992) and a follow-up solution in Lexical-Functional Grammar specif-
ically dealing with clitic climbing and light verbs in Andrews and Manning (1999).
30 The nature of clitics
A clitic cannot be contrastively stressed (topicalized) (21a) but a strong pronoun
can as shown in (21b).
(21) a. *Juan LA preﬁere.
John CL3FSG prefer-3SG
‘John prefers her.’
b. Juan la preﬁere a ELLA.
John CL3FSG prefer-3SG DOM PRO3FSG
‘John prefers her.’
A clitic cannot be conjoined (22a) but strong pronouns (22b) can be conjoined.
(22) a. *Juan la y lo invita.
John CL3FSG and CL3MSG invite-3SG
‘John invites him and her.’
b. Juan los invita a ella y a él.
John CL3MPL invite-3SG DOM PRO3FSG and DOM PRO3MSG
‘John invites them.’
A clitic cannot appear in isolation, it needs its verbal host and cannot appear
postverbally (23a), but a strong pronoun can (23b).
(23) a. *(Es) lo.
is-3SG CL3MSG
‘It’s him.’
b. (Es) él.
is-3SG PRO3MSG
‘It’s him.’
A ﬁnal point to be made is that clitics can appear together in so-called clitic
clusters, as proclitics (24a) and enclitics (24b) attached to the nonﬁnite verb in
an instance of clitic climbing. In complex predicates clitic climbing is an
optional variant of proclitic placement as in (24c). Clitics when occurring in
clusters depend on speciﬁc alignment constraints which will be discussed in
section 2.5. Strong pronouns can never co-occur in this way (24d).
Romance clitichood: bound or free forms 31
(24) a. Te lo doy.
CL2SG CL3MSG give-1SG
‘I give it to you.’
b. Quiero dártelo.
want-1SG give-INF=CL2SG.CL3MSG
‘I want to give it to you.’
c. Te lo quiero dar.
CL2SG CL3MSG want-1SG give-INF
‘I want to give it to you.’
d. *¿Nosotros tú salimos esta noche?
1PL PRO2SG go.out-1PL DEM night
‘Shall we and you go out tonight?’
A further distinction between clitics and pronouns arises from locality restric-
tions, namely the inability of clitics to occur as the object of a preposition. This
is a well-attested crosslinguistic restriction for object clitics.9 Consider (25)
where a prepositional construction is possible with a strong pronoun and with
a determiner phrase but not with a clitic.
(25) El niño no quiere viajar sin él / su oso / *lo.
DET boy not want-3SG travel-INF PREP PRO3MSG / POSS bear / *CL3MSG
‘The boy does not want to travel without him/teddy bear/him.’
To summarize the diﬀerences between clitics and strong pronouns, as shown by
the examples above, there are four important distinctions. Clitic pronouns can
neither be modiﬁed ((20) and (21)) nor coordinated (22), and they are subject to
strict locality constraints in relation to their verbal host ((23) and (24)); ﬁnally,
they cannot be the object of a prepositiona (25). For the present we will distin-
guish between two classes of pronouns for Spanish, strong pronouns and clitics.
Most proposals for the typological classiﬁcation of Spanish pronouns and
clitics adopt Cardinaletti and Starke (1996, 1999), who divide pronouns into a
syntactically non-deﬁcient class and a syntactically deﬁcient class. The tripartite
division shown in the hierarchy of (26) is originally based on the binary division
of syntactic clitichood into strong pronouns and clitic (Kayne 1975).
(26) PRO > WEAK > CL
9 This restriction also applies to the subject clitic, impersonal se.
32 The nature of clitics
The division in (26) is based on the phrase structural properties of each prono-
minal category. In Cardinaletti and Starke (1996: 36) clitics are deﬁcient pro-
nouns (X0s). Strong pronouns (PRO) are non-deﬁcient, full noun phrases (XPs);
weak pronouns are deﬁcient noun phrases with exponents such as Italian loro
(Egerland 2005) and German es (Cardinaletti and Starke 1996, 1999). The inter-
mediate category formed by weak pronouns shares properties with clitics such
as non-modiﬁcation and non-coordination. Weak pronouns in Romance repre-
sent a true transition between lexical and syntactic status, exempliﬁed best
by the hybrid morphosyntactic status of European Portuguese clitics. Unlike
Spanish clitics, Portuguese clitics are phrasal and stem-level aﬃxes, clitic clusters
undergo stem allomorphy and, unique to Romance languages, clitic clusters can
take scope over a coordinated phrase (Spencer and Luís 2012). In Spanish, the
weak pronouns disappeared early; there is no written evidence to document
the change from weak to clitic, as this happened very early in the transition
from Classical Latin to Medieval Romance (Egerland 2005). Also, a distinction
into weak and clitic is not warranted, due to their uniform syntactic properties:
they cannot be modiﬁed, conjoined, topicalized, nor appear in isolation.
The PRO in (26) represents the strong, stressed personal pronouns; they are
theta-role bearing arguments. Weak pronouns in Spanish do not exist any longer
as already mentioned before. Clitics function as agreement markers when they
co-occur with an object argument (e.g. in clitic doubling); without an argument,
they can also be theta-role bearing arguments, with optionality of the alternate
functions speciﬁed in lexical entries.10 Both series are morphologically distinct.
Clitics, whether proclitics or enclitics, are phonologically dependent on the
verb as their syntactic host and cannot occupy the canonical postverbal object
position.
Above, I have shown the complexity of morphological classiﬁcation of the
dative and accusative clitics in Spanish. The next section introduces Spanish
third person clitics with special reference to their unique properties in Latin
American Spanish.
2.3 Dative clitic vs. accusative clitic
The view that case-marked elements such as third person clitics are deictic and
anaphoric agreement aﬃxes is strongly supported by the following facts. An
important similarity shared by pronouns and demonstratives – and which justi-
ﬁes grouping them together as opposed to ﬁrst and second person – is that they
10 See chapter 3 for a discussion of optional PRED PRO in Lexical-Functional Grammar.
Dative clitic vs. accusative clitic 33
are presumed insuﬃcient to identify a referent based on their descriptive con-
tent alone, requiring support from the linguistic or extra-linguistic context.
Whereas modern Spanish ﬁrst and second person clitics originated from per-
sonal pronouns, third person clitics originated from the Latin demonstratives
(27), preserving the Latin case features gender, case and reﬂexivity.
(27) third person masculine lo < illum
third person feminine la < illam
This general, widespread and cross-linguistically attested assumption is particu-
larly evident in third person Spanish clitics and accounts for their special behav-
iour as will be shown in section 2.4. Many languages use a double referential
system: pronouns for ﬁrst and second person, and deictics such as demonstra-
tives for third person. The third-person demonstrative pronouns usually have
two forms, one referring to human and another to non-human referents, the
latter being also open to human referents as, for example, in most indigenous
Australian languages (Andrews 2007). This is also the case of Spanish third
person clitic pronouns.
Table 2.1 illustrates the paradigms for the unstressed accusative and dative
clitics which can be doubled but never replaced by strong third person pro-
nouns (stressed, non-reﬂexive).
Table 2.1: Accusative and dative clitic pronouns in Spanish
Accusative Dative
Person Singular Plural Gender Singular Plural
1 me nos Masc+Fem me nos
2 ES te os Masc+Fem te os
2LAS te los Masc te les
las Fem
3 lo los Masc le les
la las Fem
Case-syncretism for accusative and dative forms is complete for the ﬁrst and
second person singular and plural which show perfect agreement. The third
person paradigm distinguishes between the dative with case and number
features, and the gender and number specifying accusative.11 The repetition of
11 Greek third person pronouns are similar to Spanish with respect to the gender feature
(Chatsiou 2006).
34 The nature of clitics
the second person paradigm, highlighted in grey, is representative for practically
all Latin American Spanish (LAS) varieties where the European Spanish (ES)
second person plural forms os have been replaced by the third person forms.12
Note the spread of syncretism due to a complete merger of second and third
person plural forms in Latin American Spanish.
Table 2.2: Accusative and dative reﬂexive pronouns in Latin American Spanish
Person Singular Plural Gender
1 me nos Masc+Fem
2 te se Masc+Fem
3 se se Masc+Fem
Accusative and dative reﬂexive forms as they appear in Table 2.2 representing
the Latin American Spanish paradigm, show an even more simpliﬁed highly
syncretic paradigm with se representing half of the forms, assuming the else-
where position.13
Tables 2.1 and 2.2 are combined in Table 2.3 to give a comprehensive picture
of clitic syncretism in Latin American Spanish.
Table 2.3: Syncretism in the Spanish clitic paradigm
Singular Plural
Person Dative Dat+Acc Acc Dative Dat+Acc Acc
1 me nos
2 ES te os
2 LAS te les los/las
3 le lo/la les los/las
3 Reﬂexive ←se→
As Table 2.3 shows, forms for the ﬁrst person singular object clitics are fully
syncretic. They are underspeciﬁed for gender, unmarked for case but marked
for person, and as such they can be used with both objects indiscriminately.
Syncretism in the second person paradigm remains in European Spanish (ES),
with os functioning as the sole form. Syncretism extends to the second person
plural paradigm in Latin American Spanish where os is replaced by the third
12 I exclude here the voseo forms in Argentinian Spanish and elsewhere in South American
Spanish as they have no direct bearing on the topic treated here.
13 Pescarini (2007) ascribes the historical source of syncretism of the kind that produces homo-
phonous forms to paradigm levelling.
Dative clitic vs. accusative clitic 35
person forms. In the third person paradigm, which displays speciﬁc forms for
the dative (marked for case and number), and for the accusative (marked for
gender and number) some syncretism is operative since there is no gender
distinction.
The reﬂexive se in the last row of Table 2.3 is a fully syncretic marker,
‘without explicit reference (gender and number)’ (Pescarini 2005: 253), covering
as a portmanteau morpheme third person singular and plural, second person
plural reﬂexive pronouns, impersonal se, passive se and spurious se. Zagona
(2002: 17) notes that impersonal se is the only true subject clitic in Spanish and
can be replaced by ‘one’.
The spread of syncretism in Latin American Spanish causes problems because
of the loss of consistency of expression (Spencer and Luís 2012:5), since syncretism
breaks the one-to-one correspondence between form and function/meaning. How-
ever, the form itself remains consistent in all environments. I will discuss this
further in section 2.5, in conjunction with the Person-Case constraint in clitic
clusters.
The clitic forms can be decomposed ino features as shown in Table 2.4,14
with morphological features corresponding to their phonological segment.
Table 2.4: Clitic morphology and phonology
Dative Accusative
Person 3 l l
Gender F Ø a
Gender M Ø o
Case Dative e Ø
Number Pl s s
The dative /e/ is considered the marked case value, the accusative is unmarked
for case but marked for gender. The feminine /a/, masculine /o/ and plural /s/
features are all present as exponents of declension classes, displaying the exact
same features as in the morphological inventory of nouns and adjectives. The
accusative clitics are the only ones still reﬂecting the gender distinction.
Greenberg (1966) noted that if nouns of a language display gender, then
pronouns will too. In Spanish, all third person strong pronouns show gender
distinction. In this respect the accusative clitic is more like a strong pronoun
than the dative clitic. This leads to the conclusion that all features of the para-
digms are morphologically marked a shown in Table 2.5.
14 The Table is adapted from Alsina’s (1996b: 161) treatment of Catalan.
36 The nature of clitics
Table 2.5: Feature representation of third person clitic pronouns
Dative Accusative
–Feminine +Feminine
–Plural le lo la
+Plural les los las
Feminine gender and dative case are the marked values in the paradigm,
considered so because of the narrow and speciﬁc range of application of the
feminine gender. Lo as exponent of neuter and masculine genders is the un-
marked value, the default, as will be shown below in section 2.4.
In a slightly diﬀerent analysis Pescarini (2005: 250) treats the thematic
vowel /e/ as the elsewhere exponent “inserted in the gender slot when [gender]
is neutralized”. This view does not clash with the present assumptions and
resulting analysis. On the contrary, as shown in Table 2.6, it is supported by the
same features of the Spanish three-way distance specifying demonstratives.
Table 2.6: Demonstratives and elsewhere position of /e/
Number Masculine Neuter Feminine
Singular éste esto ésta
ése eso ésa
aquél aquello aquélla
Plural éstos éstas
ésos ésas
aquéllos aquéllas
Note that, unlike the nominal category, the demonstrative forms are traditionally
described as having neuter gender, which is a last remnant of the Latin neuter.
However, these singular forms only refer to propositional content and cannot be
combined, two properties they share with neuter lo.
Another approach is given in Harris (1994) (as read in Pescarini (2005)) and
in Harris (1995), where the initial /l/ exponent is analyzed as a syncretic case
marker for accusative and dative and /o, a, e/ as class markers.15 Parallel to
double object constructions – where overt realization of the syncretic case
marker a is restricted to the referential argument – the same constraint would
15 This is an interesting idea, as it would accommodate the co-occurrence restriction of dative-
accusative le lo, the Person-Case constraint or the spurious se rule. The constraints as well as
the spurious se rule will be discussed in this chapter section 2.5.
Dative clitic vs. accusative clitic 37
apply to clitic clusters. However, that would rule out clusters of the type me le,
se le, which clearly exist in Spanish.
Evidence from other Romance languages, as well as the genesis of modern
person three clitics from the Latin demonstrative ille, provide further clues for /l/
to be rather a person exponent than case exponent. Also, /l/ appears in the
third person strong pronouns él and ella. Moreover, note the almost complete
structural overlap between the deﬁnite articles and direct object pronouns in
Table 2.7. Both are gender-bearing and the only divergence is in the masculine,
singular lo. Strong pronouns, deﬁnite determiners, and accusative clitics share
the gender features masculine and feminine; the accusative clitic lo is the only
one to combine masculine and neuter.
Table 2.7: Strong pronouns, deﬁnite determiners and accusative clitics
Singular Features Plural Features
SP él masc, singular SP ellos masc, plural
SP ella fem, singular SP ellas fem, plural
Det/CL el/lo masc/neuter, singular Det/CL los masc/neuter, plural
Det/CL la fem, singular Det/CL las fem, plural
The dative clitic in Table 2.8 on the other hand, only shares the number feature
/s/ and the exponent /l/ with the determiner paradigm. The occurrence of /e/ in
demonstratives (Table 2.6), in personal pronouns (él, ella), and in the masculine,
singular deﬁnite article (el) further supports the elsewhere position of /e/.
Table 2.8: Deﬁnite determiners and dative clitic
Singular Features Plural Features
Det el masc, singular Det los masc, plural
Det la fem, singular Det las fem, plural
CL le case, singular CL les case, plural
In sum, I have shown in this section that the second person clitic paradigm in
Latin American Spanish displays two new phenomena in the plural paradigm.
Firstly, the loss of the syncretic dative and accusative marker second person
plural marker os. Secondly, the latter has given rise to a split into dative and
accusative in the second person plural, producing an identical copy of the third
person plural paradigm and an increase in syncretism.
The comparison of the third person object clitic paradigm with the strong
pronoun and deﬁnite determiner paradigms shows that – very diﬀerent from
38 The nature of clitics
the dative clitic – the accusative clitic is strikingly similar to the deﬁnite
articles.16
Importantly, the case of accusative lo combining both masculine and neuter
gender is of high relevance to the discussion of invariant lo as the most impor-
tant unmarked form in the non-standardized data. It is a featureless form “that
can act as a surrogate for the entire category” (Bresnan 2001a: 61; Greenberg
1966) producing interesting morphosyntactic variability which is not restricted
to a particular geographic region or dependent on extra-linguistic factors alone.
Moreover, this invariant form covers more than one use. Lo is a syncretic form
for the neuter, expressing third person only, and for the singular masculine,
expressing third person, number and gender. In gender concord, the masculine
subsumes the feminine. As shown in chapter one, section three, it is part of a
complex aspect of Spanish syntax, namely the variability of the Spanish third
person pronominal paradigm as a referential system, leísmo, loísmo and laísmo
(Fernández Ordóñez 1999). Leísmo personal (personal leísmo) is the use of
the dative le for the accusative lo referring to mainly singular male humans in
Peninsular Spanish since the sixteenth century. Loísmo is the use of lo for le,
and represents an extension of the accusative into the dative.
In traditional grammar, the variability is based on a twofold distinction,
either animate (personal) vs. inanimate (things), or on eliminating gender in
favour of case distinctions. Leísmo is a highly complex multisystem, showing
distinctions based on geographical variability, contact with non-gender marking
languages such as Quechua, Basque and some Amazonian languages, diﬀerent
usage in written and oral language, and ﬁnally the actual use compared to the
educated “standard” use. In fact, co-variation of lo and le has been reported
for Basque contact Spanish (Fernández Ordóñez 1994; Suñer 1989), Quechua
bilingual Spanish (Mayer and Sánchez 2016) and for L2 English speakers with
Hispanic Background in the United States (Luján and Parodi 1996).
2.4 Speciﬁc lo (la) environments
Ormazabal and Romero (2004, 2007, 2010)17 have presented signiﬁcant evidence,
which justiﬁes the following, now widely accepted categorization:
– First and second person accusative clitics can be grouped together with all
dative clitics as agreement markers, to form one single agreement system.
– The third person clitic lo can be considered “a genuine case of determiner
cliticization” (Ormazabal and Romero 2007: 341).18
16 Fernández Ordóñez (2007: 17) calls it “el artículo lo” (the article lo).
17 Based on previous work by Uriagereka (1995), Roca (1996), Torrego (1998) and Bleam (1999).
18 For an opposing view see Bosque and Moreno (1990) who argue that lo is a pronoun and the
head of a noun phrase.
Speciﬁc lo (la) environments 39
This twofold categorization is warranted by the following diﬀerences:
1. Third person direct object clitics show a much richer morphology (gender
and number), with the accusative clitic lo the only clitic to preserve the
neuter case features from Latin.19 This is a property they share with strong
pronouns and determiners, as shown in Table 2.7.
2. Third person clitics originated from demonstratives, while ﬁrst and second
person clitics do not and only the direct object clitic paradigm still exhibits
the ‘pointing eﬀect’ of demonstratives (Bhatt 2004). Indirect object clitics
show a much more advanced grammaticalization stage and have become
agreement morphemes.
3. The single agreement system indiscriminately marks indirect and direct
objects. Determiner clitics are direct object markers and have special syntactic
functions exclusively available to the direct object clitic paradigm.
This categorical distinction not only allows for the default pronoun status of the
accusative clitic lo as described below, but also triggers serious consequences
for direct object clitic doubling with agreeing and non-agreeing clitics.
The default pronoun lo (and some instances of la) participates in at least
two syntactic environments where the dative clitic le can never be found. These
are (i) topic-anaphoric pronoun referring to topical propositional content; and
(ii) determiner function in cleft constructions and nominalizations. The examples
of these special functions, treated below, are by no means exhaustive20 but
address the main and most relevant points that allow linking the ‘neuter’ accu-
sative clitic to the information structural function of secondary topic;21 and to
shed some light on diﬀerences between dialects. In the glosses, I use N for
neuter in all instances of neuter lo.
2.4.1 Lo as propositional anaphoric topic marker
In the double object construction in (28), the neuter clitic lo is an argument clitic
in the grammatical role as direct object argument and refers to a propositional
19 An important fact to take into account here is the loss of the neuter case in nouns in
Romance languages (Blake 2001).
20 Cf Fernández Ordóñez (2007) for an extensive overview speciﬁcally in Peninsular Standard
Spanish and its varieties.
21 For a brief deﬁnition cf. chapter 1 section 7 and for a thorough discussion cf. chapter 4,
section 6 onwards.
40 The nature of clitics
antecedent, to a speciﬁc event, or a clause.22 The clitic must appear left adjoined
to the verbal host.
(28) ¿Ya se lo preguntaste?
already SECL3 CL3NSG ask-PAST-2SG
‘Have you asked her/him already about it?’
In (29) the argument clitic lo out of context may be open to ambiguous inter-
pretation, as lo here can refer to an animate entity, e.g. a speciﬁc person or an
inanimate entity, a speciﬁc thing.23 This is a perfect example of the double role
of lo, linking it to the default clitic.
(29) Ya lo veo.
already CL3MSG/CL3NSG see-1SG
‘Now I see him/it.’
In both cases the event and the ‘thing’ must be part of common world knowl-
edge of both participants in the communication or be anaphorically recoverable
from the immediate discourse context.
The two functions of the direct object clitic lo as topic-anaphoric referring
to propositional content and as referring to an animate/inanimate entity, are
not available to the dative clitic le in standard Spanish varieties in which le is
restricted to referential anaphoricity and indirect object agreement.
2.4.2 Determiner cliticization
In certain determiner cliticization constructions the clitic lo lacks agreement and
the pragmatic feature referentiality but retains the semantic feature deﬁniteness.
Here the clitic is phonologically dependent not on the verb but on another word,
it always must appear left adjoined to any syntactic category. An example of this
is lo in its function as as determiner in cleft constructions, where anaphoric
lo que, lo cual, lo de refers to a sentential complement.
22 This is also called S-Pronominalization in Perlmutter’s terminology and lo should be identical
in all aspects to its antecedent. However, replacement can also involve ‘sloppy identity’, as in
having two diﬀerent subjects (Perlmutter 1971: 30).
23 Butt and Benjamin (2004: 88) deﬁne neuter lo as referring not to a speciﬁc noun, but ‘to
an idea, clause or sentence, to some unspeciﬁc thing that has no gender, or to something not
mentioned before.’
Speciﬁc lo (la) environments 41
Example (30) shows neuter lo ﬁrstly in a lo que cleft construction followed
by lo as a determiner in a coordinated noun phrase.
(30) A. Bryce Echenique, Peru (Butt and Benjamin 2004: 87)
Lo que resulta increíble es lo
CL3NSG that result-3SG incredible is-3SG CL3NSG
modernos y antiguos que son al mismo tiempo.
modern and antique CONJ.REL are-3PL at.the same time
‘What’s incredible is how modern and ancient they are at the same time.’
The pointing eﬀect of the direct object clitic is well documented in crosslinguistic
studies of pronouns. In these types of constructions lo que shows similarities to
indeﬁnite pronouns. Bhat (2004) points out the general need to distinguish
between indeﬁnite pronouns and ordinary noun phrases on two grounds: (i) on
a semantic level, the location of speaker versus hearer has to be taken into
account, and (ii) because indeﬁnite pronouns belong to the pragmatic dimen-
sion. As he notes (2004: 3) “demonstratives denote objects that are not actually
named, but pointed out”. This applies speciﬁcally to direct object clitics as
determiners in nominalizations.
Neuter lo can also be used for generic expressions of the kind lo bueno, lo
malo, lo feo (the good, the bad, the ugly), and is not replaceable by any other
determiner. It can function as determiner with a variety of nominal categories
(adjectives, adverbs, participles). For example, the noun phrase determiner lo
with a nominalized adjective in (31) takes on the role of subject and demon-
strates the lack of agreement and the retained semantic feature deﬁniteness.
(31) Lo grave era de su frente.
CL3NSG serious is-PAST-3SG PREP POSS forehead
‘The most serious (injury) was the one on her forehead.’
Co-occurrence of a clitic with a preposition as in (32), where lo/la are nominalised,
is restricted to the direct object clitics lo(s) and also la(s) in determiner function.
Unlike cleft constructions and determiners as nominalized clitics they maintain
their gender speciﬁcation and ensure referential identiﬁcation of the represented
entity.
(32) Nos vemos en lo de / la de mi hermano.
REFL.1PL see-1PL at CL3MSG of / CL3FSG of POSS brother
‘We’ll see you at my brother’s/sister’s.’ (house, party, event, etc.)
42 The nature of clitics
These kinds of constructions demonstrate clearly the genetic background of
third person clitics as a demonstrative in pointing to the event as cataphoric
reference. Lo as a propositional (sentential) anaphor remains restricted to a
verbal host, which makes it quite diﬀerent from determiner clitics, which can
select from several nominal and syntactic categories as their phonological host.
Clitic placement left adjoined to their phonological host remains unchanged in
all cases.
This brief exposition of the additional functions of direct object clitics has
demonstrated that the third person object clitic paradigm is not a uniform class.
Unlike indirect object clitics, the direct object clitic forms lo, la can be used as
determiners that project certain kinds of phrases, as well as non-projecting
words, as I will argue in the next section.
2.4.3 An attempt at accommodating determiner clitics
The last two subsections have shown the unusual and multifunctional status of
the direct object clitics, among others as the default direct object pronoun.24 To
capture this important distinction I use the idea of a projection / dependence
matrix (Toivonen 2003) to show the full distribution of Spanish pronouns and
clitics in Table 2.9.
Table 2.9: Modiﬁed projection/dependence matrix
non-projecting projecting
phonologically dependent IO, DO clitics DO determiners
not phonologically dependent strong pronouns
My representation of Spanish pronouns and third person clitics on the matrix
shows that strong pronouns are full stress-bearing words, phonologically inde-
pendent of any host, and able to project full phrases. The clitic paradigm is split
into ‘true clitics’, indirect object, and direct object agreement markers, which
are phonologically dependent on a verbal host and lack projecting capacity.
The direct object clitics lo and la in determiner cliticization constructions, as
documented in section 4.2, have some projecting capacity and are phonologi-
cally dependent on a range of nominal and syntactic categories.25
24 For interesting similarities to Bulgarian see Jaeger and Gerassimova (2002).
25 In this respect, they show signiﬁcant similarities to Greek determiners.
Speciﬁc lo (la) environments 43
The typological classiﬁcation of pronouns into PRO > WEAK > CLITIC
(Cardinaletti and Starke 1996, 1999) does not allow this important distinction to
be captured,26 whereas Toivonen’s new typology does. Hence, it allows the ﬁne
distinction between ﬁrst and second person indirect and direct object clitics and
third person indirect object clitics on the one hand, and the third person direct
object clitics including the ‘unmarked’ exponent, neuter lo on the other to be
brought out. This proposal accommodates the linking of grammaticized clitics
and their interaction with semantic and pragmatic strategies of object marking
in variation Spanish. Further, it is very useful for the distinction of anaphoric
and grammatical agreement, which will be treated in chapter three.
In this section I have discussed the complex morphological classiﬁcation
of Spanish clitics and exposed their mixed properties. The genesis of the clitic
paradigm in demonstratives, and their classiﬁcation as deictic elements, has
important consequences for clitic cluster constraints. The analysis of third
person clitics as deictic elements seems natural and would oﬀer a plausible
explanation for the Person-Case Constraint as Spanish, like many other languages,
disallows co-occurrence of two deictic elements. This issue will be further discussed
in the next section, dealing with clitic cluster constraints.
2.5 Clitic placement and alignment constraints
The previous section has established that clitics can occur either alone or in a
clitic cluster and, when occurring in a cluster (33), they are subject to speciﬁc
alignment constraints.
(33) a. Te lo doy.
CL2SG CL3MSG give-1SG
‘I give it to you.’
b. Quiero dártelo.
want-1SG give-INF-CL2SG.CL3MSG
‘I want to give it to you.’
c. Te lo quiero dar.
CL2SG CL3MSG want-1SG give-INF
‘I want to give it to you.’
26 It could be hypothesised though, that lo could be analyzed as a weak pronoun like Italian
loro as described in Cardinaletti and Starke (1996). However, weak pronouns in Toivonen’s
projection/dependency matrix are not phonologically dependent and the direct object clitics
lo/la are, so the hypothesis does not hold.
44 The nature of clitics
In this section I ﬁrst present the basic surface structure constraints applied spe-
ciﬁcally to Spanish, before moving on to the Person-Case Constraint (Bonet 1991,
1995) for further restrictions on clitic clusters. The ﬁnal subsection discusses
various features of these constraints in an Optimality Theoretic approach in
terms of more general markedness principles.
2.5.1 Surface constraints
Clitic cluster constraints have been widely noticed and described by traditional
grammarians. For example Bello (1984: 278) notes “la segunda persona va
siempre antes de la primera, y cualquiera de las dos antes de la tercera; pero
la forma se (oblicua o reﬂeja) precede a todas” (The second person always
precedes the ﬁrst, and any one of the two has to appear before the third. But
the form se (oblique and reﬂexive) precedes all).27
The most interesting case of ﬁrst position se is third person clusters of dative
le(s) with accusative lo(s), le la(s), where the dative le(s) changes to se as in
se lo(s), se la(s).28 This co-occurrence constraint has been widely discussed,
originally by Perlmutter (1971) who presented an analysis based on surface
constraints in form of a template (35), mainly for Spanish but aiming at some
universality.
Building on Perlmutter’s work, extra constraints have been proposed in the
form of the me lui constraint focusing on high clitic order variation in a subset
of closely related Catalan dialects (Bonet 1991, 1995), followed by Person-Case
Constraint focusing mainly on morphology (Harris 1994, 1995; Pescarini 2005).
The (Generalised) Person-Case Constraint moved on to discuss the syntax-
morphology interface (Adger and Harbour 2007; Albizu 1997; Nevins 2007;
Ormazabal and Romero 1998, 2002, 2007) still leaving a number of issues un-
explained.
27 Bello writes further: ‘Las combinaciones me se y te se deben evitarse como groseros
vulgarismos.’ (The combinations me se and te se should be avoided as being extremely vulgar.)
This comment leads me to assume that these two combinations, which clearly violate the
abovementioned rules, though not absolutley ruled out by surface constraints, are forms not
generally accepted.
28 Traditional grammars call se a variant of the dative (=le) and constrain the change to
clusters of pronouns with an initial /l/. The Real Academia Española (1985: 203–204) further
argues that whereas accusative lo has dative le and feminine la as variants, dative le does not
have any variants. This would exclude wide spread laísmo, where the feminine accusative la
replaces the dative le.
Clitic placement and alignment constraints 45
The earliest Transformational Grammar accounts (Dinnsen 1972; Perlmutter
1971) state that clitic ordering in Spanish is governed by two rules:
(34) Reﬂexive > Benefactive > Dative > Accusative
Thematic case hierarchy29 (Dinnsen 1972: 181)
(35) se II I III The spurious se rule (Perlmutter 1971: 76)
Focusing on Spanish and French, Perlmutter introduced surface structure con-
straints and ﬁlters assuming that clitics require to be generated in the same
position in deep structure as the ordinary noun phrase. They then move into
their respective clitic position obeying the surface structure constraints and
ﬁlters in (35). The ‘spurious se rule’ in (35) shows the relative order of clitics
applicable at least to Spanish and French (the Roman numerals represent
second, ﬁrst, and third person, respectively).
In Spanish, there are two surface positions for clitics; in ﬁnite clauses, they
occupy the immediate preverbal position, and in non-ﬁnite clauses (with inﬁni-
tives, gerunds and aﬃrmative commands) they adjoin to the verb, verb ﬁnally;
they are always contiguous.30 The clitic position is not available to noun phrases
and nothing but another clitic in a clitic cluster can come between a clitic and
the verb. The version in (36) shows the surface order of proclitics and enclitics in
Spanish.
(36) V se II I III (AUX) V
–ﬁn +ﬁn
There is only one third person position, and the dative must precede the accusa-
tive. A common solution for this is to have the dative in the se slot. Grimshaw
(1982a) argues that this is an unsupported reﬂexive that fails to parse dative
and parses third person instead. Co-occurrence of two third person clitics places
29 See Haspelmath (2004) for an explanation of the ‘Ditransitive Person-Role Constraint’
(DPRC) in terms of Theme (T) and Recipient (R) as macro-roles. In his frequency-based account
the role scale R > T interacts with the person scale 1,2 > 3, that is, the Theme is more likely to be
third person whereas the Recipient tends to be ﬁrst and second person. These semantic roles in
turn are related by Haspelmath to diﬀerent grades of topic-worthiness which move the DPRC
toward greater crosslinguistic generalisation, namely the Ditransitive Topicality Role Constraint
(57). This approach places a strong emphasis on speaker preference while also acknowledging
the existence of language-speciﬁc constraints.
30 It is an interesting question whether the diﬀerence between the terms enclitic and proclitic,
referring to phonological binding, and preverbal vs. postverbal placement, referring to con-
stituent order, is signiﬁcant enough to warrant a distinction.
46 The nature of clitics
the accusative into the third person slot and transforms the dative into so called
spurious se (see the spurious se rule in the next section). However, in this posi-
tion we ﬁnd two other instances of se, either a third person reﬂexive pronoun or
a so-called ‘impersonal se’ which can only occur with a human subject.31 The
extended version is useful for illustration purposes but the extra position is
superﬂuous, as the application of the spurious se rule in (35) discards ungram-
matical combinations.
A surface structure constraint such as (35) is a surprising and unwelcome
addition to the Transformational Grammar framework, but ﬁts much better into
Lexical-Functional Grammar, where it can be integrated into the Phrase Struc-
ture rules as ﬁrst developed by Grimshaw (1982a) for French.
The extended verb phrase rule (VP) in (37) demonstrates preverbal clitic
placement rules for Spanish and describes the surface structure of clitic clusters.
The basic phrase-structure rules with their functional annotations generate
correct c-structures and well-formed functional structures in dialects with agree-
ing clitics co-occurring with a co-indexed argument. This approach, originally
due to Grimshaw (1982a: 90) for French clitics, is modiﬁed here for Spanish to
incorporate Latin American leísmo clusters. The notation ↑ (up arrow) refers to
the immediately dominating node, the ↓ (down arrow) to the node itself. The
notation ↑ = ↓ (up equals down) means that the node’s information maps onto
the same functional structure as the information added by the mother node.32
(37) VP → V NP XP
↑ = ↓ (↑GF) = ↓ (↑OBJ) = ↓
V → (se) (CL) (CL) (CL) V
(↑OBJ) = ↓ (↑OBJ) = ↓ (↑OBJ) = ↓ (↑OBJ) = ↓ ↑ = ↓
(↓PERS) = 3 (↓PERS) = 2 (↓PERS) = 1 (↓PERS) = 3
Second and ﬁrst person show options of binding either one of the two internal
arguments, the direct object (OBJ) or the indirect object (IOBJ), or, the external
subject (SUBJ). The immediate and last preverbal position is taken by the
third person and only binds either one of the two internal arguments. The ﬁrst
31 See Contreras and Rojas (1972) for an alternative analysis of impersonal se and the extra
non-global constraints suggested by Perlmutter to deal with cases of ungrammaticality arising
from some sequences agreeing with his proposed rule in (35). See also Harris (1995) for an
extension within the framework of Distributed Morphology to view clitic clusters as a morpho-
logical unit, as ‘clitic sequences’.
32 This template could be read in conjunction with the Lexcial-Functional Grammar analysis
in chapter 3 section 4. In fact, only a general understanding of the approach rather than a
thorough understanding of the details is necessary.
Clitic placement and alignment constraints 47
position is taken by spurious se, which as a reﬂexive clitic binds two arguments,
the external subject, and either one of the two internal objects on argument
structure, both expressing the same grammatical function.
In addition to these verb phrase rules we still need the ordering restrictions
that Perlmutter’s template requires, which however can be regarded as con-
straints on how the options from rule (37) must be chosen.
Italian, Romanian, Greek, and Spanish share the ordering rule that indirect
object clitics precede direct object clitics when forming clitic clusters. These
rules apply straightforwardly to ﬁrst and second person, however due to syn-
cretism, grammatical relations are unmarked in their surface structure. On the
other hand, third person clitics show overt marking of grammatical relations
(indirect and direct object), and consequently a cluster of two third person
clitics represents a mismatch between their morphological form and syntactic
function.33
Here, an important constraint intervenes, which is based on a cross-
linguistically attested dispreference for adjacency of the same morpheme. As
it is a markedness constraint, it can be violated and dealt with on a language-
speciﬁc basis (Grimshaw 1997a). Recall that in Spanish, except for tensed
auxiliaries (lo había dicho- (s)he had said it) and other clitics, no other word
can separate the clitic from the verb.34 Clitic clusters are inseparable and can
combine up to three, with one of them an ethical dative.35 Similar constraints
have been observed for Warlpiri by Hale (1973) and Simpson (1991). Conditions
in Slavic languages are similar but clusters can exist of more than two elements
at a time. This is also the case for Spanish and Romanian.
In the next subsection, I will discuss more recent approaches to alignment
and cluster constraints most relevant to Romance and more speciﬁcally to
Spanish.
2.5.2 The Person-Case Constraint
Relevant to Spanish and the present discussion are constraints that disallow the
co-occurrence of an accusative and a dative clitic if both are third person clitics.
This has already been demonstrated in the extended verb phrase rule in (37).
In the literature, the constraint is known as the Person-Case Constraint stating:
33 Ordóñez (2002) discusses unusual clitic cluster variations of ﬁrst and second person in
varieties of Aragonese, Occitan, Catalan and Spanish, as well as unusual orders in colloquial
French. I discuss cluster variation in Latin American Spanish in chapter 5.
34 However, Ordoñez (2012: 432) reports that the reiterative re-morpheme (Kornfeld and Kuguel
2006) and dizque can separate the clitic from the verb in colloquial dialectal variation.
35 See Andrews and Manning (1999) chapter ﬁve for a non-constructive splitting constraint rule.
48 The nature of clitics
“In a ditransitive, where both internal arguments are realized as phonologically
weak elements, the direct object must be third person” (Adger and Harbour
2007: 2). In Spanish, to comply with the surface structure constraints (35) and
(37) and to ensure that person agreement on the verb is unambiguous, the dative
clitic le is substituted by spurious se when co-occurring with an accusative third
person clitic as demonstrated in (38). This gives rise to the only opaque clitic se
from a process of delinking and inserting morphosyntactic features.36
(38) Spurious se rule:
*le(s)DAT loACC → se lo
Fernández Soriano (1999) argues that this constraint does not apply to noun
phrase objects occurring in canonical position (39) that is in unmarked accusative/
direct object – dative/indirect object word order.37
(39) Fernández Soriano (1999: 1267)
Presentaron a Juan a María.
introduce-PAST-3PL DOM John DAT/TO Mary
‘They introduced John to Mary.’
The rule does apply to clitic cluster and receives language and dialectal variety
speciﬁc treatment. As shown in (40a), Peninsular Spanish requires either a
strong pronoun in the indirect object position, or adding the full object (40b) to
establish the grammatical role of the argument clitics.38
(40) Peninsular Spanish (Fernández Soriano 1999: 1267)
a. Me acercaron a ella.
CL1SG take-closer-3PL DOM PRO3FSG
‘They took me closer to her.’
b. Me le acercaron a ella / él.
CL1SG CL3SG take-close-3PL DAT PRO3FSG / PRO3MSG
‘They took me closer to her/him.’
36 A case-driven view is taken by Laenzlinger (1998) who argues that co-occurrence of two
casemarked clitics on one and the same node is banned. See also Harris (1994) and Harris
(1995) for a similar approach.
37 In double object constructions, double marking is very rare and regulated by the Object
Agreement Constraint as deﬁned in (43); see also the ‘Restricted Argument Parameter’ (Alsina
2001). In Spanish, the accusative patient/theme is usually unmarked unless the verb requires a
preposition to be there. In Spanish linguistics, this is known as perifrástica verbal.
38 Note that there are no animacy restrictions on strong pronouns forcing them to appear in
the immediate postverbal position, however they seem to be constrained to occur as objects of
a preposition.
Clitic placement and alignment constraints 49
The Leísta Spanish variant in (41) referring to two animate objects does not
violate the rule, as le does not mark the dative and allows to establish gram-
matical functions.
(41) Latin American Leísta Spanish
Me le acercaron.
CL1SG CL3SG take-closer-PAST-3PL
‘They took me closer to her/him.’
Rather than syntactic casemarking, (40a) is a case of idiosyncratic prepositional
marking (Dalrymple 2001: 27), which should instead be glossed as semantic case
GoalLOC marking an oblique. Examples (42) on the other hand show core argu-
ment marking with gender-speciﬁc clitics.
(42) a. Me la / lo acercaron a ella / él.
CL1SG CL3FSG / CL3MSG brought-close-3PL DAT PRO3FSG / PRO3MSG
‘They brought her/him closer to me.’
b. Me la / lo acercaron.
CL1SG CL3FSG / CL3MSG brought-close-3PL
‘They brought her/him/it closer to me.’
In sum, Peninsular Spanish seems to express a narrower range of grammatical
relations by disallowing me le clusters. A possible reason could be the fact that
leísmo is mainly restricted to male humans. Note that the gender-expressing
anaphors in (42b) do not only refer to animate objects but also to inanimates,
as for example, ella could refer to la piedra (the rock) and lo to el coche
(the car). This question leads to Ormazabal and Romero’s Object Agreement
Constraint.
The Object Agreement Constraint (43) is based on the Person-Case Constraint
and an extensive analysis of leísmo, laísmo and loísmo.39 It is more comprehensive
than the Person-Case Constraint and subsumes it (Ormazabal and Romero 2007:
336):
(43) If the verbal complex encodes object agreement, no other argument can be
licensed through verbal agreement.
39 As introduced at the end of section 3, standard (restricted to peninsular Spanish) leísmo
extends the use of dative le to human and mainly male (accusative) direct object arguments;
laísmo refers to the use of feminine la to dative and accusative, and loísmo refers to an exten-
sion of accusative lo to dative arguments.
50 The nature of clitics
In this minimalist account, the Bonet (1995) proposal is extended to include
animacy as the important crosslinguistic factor in object marking, backed up
by a widely attested restriction of multiple object marking. The constraint is
only active when dative and accusative clitics as agreement markers overtly
cross-reference the syntactically active objects on the verbal morphology. This
aspect is important for the analysis of liberal clitic doubling with non-agreeing
clitics; it will be further discussed in chapter ﬁve in terms of ﬂoating agreement.
In a diﬀerent approach, Nevins (2007) focuses exclusively on person and the
binary features [±Participant] and [±Author] for referring expressions. Nevins
argues that the me lui eﬀect and spurious se represent a depersoniﬁcation of
the third person, where in the cluster sequence se lo, spurious se “must have
a featural representation of person beyond ‘nothing’” (283), hence the third
person bears the features [–Author, –Participant] (Nevins 2007: 311). For mor-
phological markedness, the ‘deletion’ of person ensures that person agreement
on the verb is unambiguous. This proposal solves the Person Constraint for stan-
dard varieties, but as it leaves out the case/gender discussion it is not applicable
to dialectal variation with non-agreeing clitics.
The proposal by Adger and Harbour (2007) is more applicable to the Latin
American Spanish variability. They argue for a strong relationship between the
Person-Case Constraint and case syncretism. This is indeed the case for Spanish,
as shown in the discussion above (section three) of the Spanish clitic paradigm,
the Person-Case Constraint applies only to the third person clitics. It has been
found that the syncretic ﬁrst and second person clitics are phonologically weak
and do not distinguish overtly between direct and indirect object, whereas third
person clitics do. Case syncretism involves the same marker for two core argu-
ments, the dative and the accusative, where the latter is marked in accordance
with a culture-sensitive animacy scale subject to diachronic change. For other
languages, such as Greek, where the Person-Case Constraint does not fully
correlate with case syncretism, the authors assume only partial case syncretism.
The accounts discussed so far do not provide an explicit answer, as they
do not consider markedness constraints which reﬂect crosslinguistic variability
based on pragmatic strategies.
2.5.3 Markedness constraints
The remaining discussion of alignment takes markedness constraints into account.
The theoretical basis is an Optimality Theory treatment, where morphology
interacts with phonology based on a mechanism of violable constraint rankings
Clitic placement and alignment constraints 51
(Grimshaw 1982a, 1997a, 1997b, 2001).40 The main tenet of Optimality Theory
is that constraints are universal but the ranking of constraint hierarchies –
hierarchy of expressions of features – is language speciﬁc and ﬁxed in any given
language. Diﬀerent rankings of the same constraints predict the possible
combinations.
Grimshaw (2001) analyzes spurious se in Spanish by ranking a series of
violable morphosyntactic restrictions and alignment constraints, as shown in
Table 2.10, reproduced from Grimshaw (2001: 221, Tableau T8.16).
Table 2.10: Spurious se in the cluster se lo(s)/la(s)
Input: [–R 3 sg dat +
–R 3 sg acc]
Case-
Rt
Pers-
Rt
Faith-
Reﬂ
Faith-Pers
Faith-
Num
Faith-
Case
a. (–R 3 sg dat) +
(–R 3 sg acc)
*! *!
☞ b. (+R PNC) +
(–R 3 sg acc)
* * * *
c. (R 1 sg C) +
(–R 3 sg acc)
*! * **! *
For the cluster third person dative le and third person accusative lo(s)/la(s), the
dative le, which is a clitic that parses person, number and case, surfaces as
spurious se, a clitic devoid of person or case features, followed by an accusative
clitic. This clitic parsing person, number and case locates itself at the rightmost
edge. Candidate (b) thus satisﬁes all faithfulness constraints and alignment
restrictions. Candidate (a), representing the combination le + lo/la, fulﬁls all
faithfulness constraints but violates both positional restrictions PersRt and
CaseRt. In candidate (c), the input for the ﬁrst clitic shows person one instead
of person three, and therefore violates fatally the person faithfulness constraint
as well as the alignment PersRt constraint while being faithful to reﬂexivity and
case. The letters in italics (PNC and C) state that the clitic has no speciﬁcation for
that property.
Table 2.10 clariﬁes that alignment constraints rank over all faithfulness con-
straints, which seem to follow an approximate order of FaithRt and FaithPers ≫
FaithNum. The ranking of FaithRt with respect to FaithPers, and of the positional
constraints PersRt and CaseRt, are not clear at present. However, alignment of
40 Based on Prince and Smolensky (1993).
52 The nature of clitics
these positional constraints is understood and shows the pattern given in (44)
(Grimshaw 2001: 222), where ﬁrstly a casemarked clitic needs to appear at the
right edge, and secondly, the next clitic then marked for person needs to get
pushed as far right as possible. The relative ranking between both constraints
is diﬃcult if not impossible to determine, since Spanish does not have a clitic
showing the case feature but not the person feature. Since clitics specifying for
case constitute a subset of a set specifying for person, and both align at the right
edge, this does not pose a problem in the present theory.
(44) CaseRt ≫ CaseLft
PersRt ≫ PersLft
However, combining two third person clitics equally specifying for person and
case leads to violation of both constraints in (44) with both clitics competing
for the same position. In a universal markedness hierarchy (Aissen 2003, among
others), the dative outranks the accusative and yields thus the combination se lo
by ruling out se le. This, however, changes under extensive leísmo as we shall
see in chapter ﬁve on cluster variation in Latin American Spanish.
In sum, impossible combinations in Spanish will arise from “marked values
for case, person, and/or reﬂexivity” (Grimshaw 2001: 226). However due to
syncretic forms of ﬁrst and second person, which do not show case overtly,
ambiguities arise, as in (45a), where a strong pronoun occupies the canonical
direct object position.41 The examples42 in (45) are from Grimshaw (2001), who
argues that the template in (35) cannot account for these combinations.
(45) Grimshaw (2001: 226)
a. Me recomendaron a él porque era el
CL1SG recommend-PAST-3PL DOM PRO3MSG because is-PAST-3SG DET.MSG
más inﬂuyente.
most inﬂuential
‘They recommended him to me/me to him because he was the most
inﬂuential.’
41 Note that Grimshaw (2001) and Bonet (1995) attribute a female reading to these They recom-
mended me to him/her because she/he was the most inﬂuential, a view not supported by the
American Spanish native speakers I consulted on this issue, based on the masculine gender of
the predicate phrase era el más inﬂuyente.
42 Originally from Bonet (1995).
Clitic placement and alignment constraints 53
b.*Me le recomendaron porque era
CL1SG CL3SG recommend-PAST-3PL because is-PAST-3SG
el más inﬂuyente.
the most inﬂuential
‘They recommended him to me/me to him because he was the most
inﬂuential.’
c. Me lo recomendaron porque era el más inﬂuyente.
CL1SG CL3MSG recommend-3PL because was-3SG the most inﬂuyente
‘They recommended him to me because he was the most inﬂuential.’
The combination in (45b) is prohibited per Grimshaw but (45c) is allowable.
However, the cluster in (45b) is perfectly possible in Latin American Leísta
Spanish and is as ambiguous as (45a), which leads me to suspect that pragmatic
factors might interact with alignment constraints.43 Under extensive leísmo the
indirect object clitic replaces the direct object clitic and gender loss makes it
diﬃcult to identify the referent, giving rise to ambiguous structures. Therefore,
and despite the diﬃculties mentioned, I argue that Perlmutter’s template in (35)
and the extension in (37) do account for the leísmo example in (45b).
The next problem we encounter concerns spurious se when specifying AccRt
instead of the general CaseRt, which implicitly refers to DativeRT as the domi-
nant constraint (Grimshaw 2001: 237, ftn 5). Co-occurrence of spurious se (which
is, following Perlmutter, PRO) and reﬂexive se is not possible, as in the example
from Otero (1972) in (46a). Introducing the dative clitic in the anticausative
reﬂexive construction in (46b) yields a non-argumental dative, not subject to
the Person-Case Constraint.
(46) Otero (1972: 236)
a. *Se se olvidó de algo.
SE 3REFL forget-PAST-3SG PREP something
‘He forgot something.’
b. Se le olvidó.
3REFL CL3SG forget-PAST-3SG
‘It escaped him. (He forgot it.)’
Italian on the other hand, as shown by Otero (1972), circumvents this by using a
suppletive form ci, which is homophonous with the ﬁrst person plural clitic and
43 In double object constructions with noun phrase objects, the word order direct object-
indirect object is unmarked and the reverse order indirect object-direct object is pragmatically
marked.
54 The nature of clitics
the locative clitic, allows clusters as in (47b), with reﬂexive si and spurious ci44
which is analyzed as a pronoun.
(47) a. *Si si umilia. → ci si umilia.
3PRO 3REFL humiliate-3SG
‘PRO humiliates PRO.’
b. Ci si sente piccoli pensando all‘universo.
3PRO 3REFL feel-3SG small thinking.about the universe
‘Thinking about the universe, one feels little.’45
The previous discussions have clariﬁed the diﬀerence between the indirect
object clitic le and the direct object clitics lo and la. Whereas the indirect object
clitic can lead to ambiguous constructions, particularly under leísmo in Latin
American Spanish, the direct object clitics facilitate identiﬁcation of the object
referent they agree with. I have shown in the modiﬁed verb phrase rules for
Spanish in (37) that object agreement cross-referenced on the verb is restricted
to a single object, and that spurious se binds one internal argument function
(object) and the external argument function (subject) on argument structure as
one argument.
The Spanish clitic system is much less complicated than the Barceloní as
discussed by Bonet (1991, 1995), for example, as it only produces one opaque
form in clitic clusters and does not exhibit the binary distinction of phonological
vs syntactic clitics that some dialects of Catalan show. Hence, in languages ex-
hibiting this distinction, it is possible to analyze clitic clusters taking language-
speciﬁc markedness constraints into account.
Clitics in Limeño Spanish contact varieties, and speciﬁcally the direct object
clitic paradigm, are aﬀected by grammaticalization processes resulting in mor-
phological simpliﬁcation.
2.6 Summary
In this chapter I have discussed the morphological classiﬁcation of Spanish
clitics, placement, surface constraints and co-occurrence in clitic clusters. The
typological classiﬁcation of Spanish clitics based on the tripartite division by
44 This conversion is originally due to Wanner (1974), speciﬁcally see section 5.2. for the develop-
ment of the dissimilation rule for Italian. Consequently, Wanner (1977: 120) argues for Spanish
that due to the lack of such a dissimilation rule, clitic sequences se se are ruled out as they are
phonologically blocked.
45 Thanks to Francesca Foppoli for the Italian data and explanations in (47).
Summary 55
Cardinaletti and Starke (1996) proved too inﬂexible to capture the mixed properties
of third person direct object clitics. I have therefore used a new typology based
on a projection and phonological dependence matrix (Toivonen 2003) to give a
more precise categorization. This was achieved by separating ﬁrst, second and
third percon indirect and direct object clitics as agreement markers, on the one
hand, from third person direct object clitics in determiner cliticization exhibiting
some projecting capacity, on the other. This ﬁne-grained distinction allows for
the linking of grammaticized clitics and their interaction with semantic and
pragmatic object marking strategies in variation Spanish to a distinction in
grammatical and anaphoric agreement, similar to the proposal for Chicheŵa
(Bresnan and Mchombo 1987), to be discussed in the next chapter. The distinc-
tion also helps to explain invariant lo and locative doubling, and link them to a
speciﬁc information structure role, as we shall see.
Among the many constraints for clitics and clusters exposed above, the
Object Agreement Constraint is the broadest, as it prevents two internal argu-
ments from agreeing concurrently with the verb that is being marked. Languages
with no overt verb-object agreement relations, like Turkish and Japanese, don’t
have Object Agreement Constraints at all. Others show a clear distinction between
ﬁrst / second versus third person, among them Spanish and other Romance lan-
guages. This is the second important result and feeds directly into the discussion
about objects and clitics in the next chapter.
56 The nature of clitics
Chapter 3
Objects, case and clitic doubling
This chapter focuses on objects, casemarking, and the relationship of agreement
and clitic functions in argument marking. The discussion focuses in the ﬁrst part
on the coding of direct object functions by diﬀerential object marking and clitic
doubling in Spanish. Clitics can crossreference agreement and case of noun
phrases; word order arrangements, such as preposing and left dislocating, can
change an object’s function. These diﬀerent strategies can be used in combina-
tion to mark grammatical relations, and to signal pragmatic functions in certain
Latin American Spanish dialects. The second part gives a brief account of clitic
doubling in Lexical-Functional Grammar.
3.1 Objects and casemarking
Case is a complex phenomenon in terms of meaning, morhphological form and
their relationship with grammatical relations. The latter can be expressed in
diﬀerent ways, some languages use word order to overtly mark the position of
speciﬁc clause or sentence elements, others use nominal and verbal morphology
to encode grammatical relations allowing for varying freedom of word order.
For example, whereas structural case is used to identify syntactic relations (e.g.
subject, object, indirect object, etc.), semantic case encodes semantic relations
in terms of agency, animacy, deﬁniteness, speciﬁcity, aﬀectedness among other
properties. Other functions of case are to mark telicity or boundedness in the
tense/aspect system in the verbal domain (Kiparsky 1998; Ritter and Rosen
2001), and to interact with discourse functions such as topic and focus (Aissen
2003; Dalrymple and Nikolaeva 2011). The latter applies to diﬀerential object
marking in Spanish, especially to the variability in clitic doubling constructions
across dialects. In sum, the multiple ways languages code their grammatical
relations gives rise to diﬀerent types of case marking systems dependent on their
grammatical alignment and word order type.
Casemarking in Romance languages is based on Latin which, as shown in
example (48), exhibits gender and case in nominal inﬂectional morphology in
terms of declension classes and relatively free order.
(48) Latin
a. Puella puerum amat.
girl-FSG-NOM boy-MSG-ACC love-3SG
‘The girl loves the boy.’
DOI 10.1515/9781614514213-003
b. Puerum puella amat.
boy-MSG-ACC girl-FSG-NOM love-3SG
‘The girl loves the boy.’
Spanish is a nominative-accusative language with minimal case marking; the
nominative/accusative case system is only marked on personal pronouns and
on some relative pronouns. As shown in example (49), the nominative subjects
show agreement morphology on the verb, nominative case is unmarked and
noun phrases show gender and number agreement. Objective and genitive case
are marked by the prepositions a (49a) and de (49b), respectively, with (49a) as a
case of diﬀerential object marking.
(49) Spanish
a. La niña ama al niño.
DET.FSG girl-FSG love-3SG DOM-DET.MSG boy-MSG
‘The girl loves the boy.’
b. Los caballos de Clara son blancos.
DET.MPL horse.MPL PREP.GEN Clara are-3PL white.MPL
‘Clara’s horses are white.’
Spanish uses a mix of conﬁgurational and morphological means to identify
grammatical relations, and employs two diﬀerent strategies to mark the object
function: (i) clitics as a deictic strategy to mark agreement, and (ii) morphological
case to mark a relational strategy (Croft 1988: 173). As pointed out by Nichols
(1986), case and agreement are two parallel strategies to mark essentially the
same head-dependent relationship. For Spanish, coocurrence of head- and
dependent marking is obligatory with dative arguments including the gustar
(‘like’) experiencer construction in (50) which shows dependent-marking by
morphological case a and head-marking by the dative clitic le.
(50) A Juan le gusta la pintura.
DAT Juan CL3SG like-3SG DET.FSG painting.FSG
‘Juan likes the painting.’
Experiencer subjects, that is non-nominative subjects, occur elsewhere, for
example in Icelandic1, where Andrews (1982) treated them as “quirky case”.
1 See also Zaenen, Maling and Trahinsson (1985)
58 Objects, case and clitic doubling
Mapping of grammatical roles is not straightforward in all cases. Company
(2003) shows that, based on quantitative historical data, morphological case-
marking of direct objects in transitive constructions is concentrated on patients,
and in ditransitive constructions of indirect objects on recipients. In Spanish,
datives show overt morphological marking but they cannot become the subject
in passives; although the dative allows a range of thematic relations it can still
be interpreted as an inherent case.
For Spanish, an important distinction for the syncretic casemarker a is
that the preposition a marking obliques and complex predicates has semantic
content, as opposed to casemarking direct objects and indirect objects, where it
has none. Blake (2001: 170-171) traces the Spanish syncretic casemarker a back
to the Latin locative preposition ad. He argues that semantic cases, such as local
cases, are well known for expanding to the direct object through dative and
genitive marking. Loss of semantic meaning marks the direct object as a syntactic
relation, creating a grammatical case. The preposition a still retains its locative
meaning as shown in (51).
(51) Standard Spanish (Blake 2001: 171)
Juan vuelve a su hotel.
Juan return-3SG LOC POSS hotel
‘Juan returns to his hotel.’
With the basics in Spanish casemarking established, I now turn to how these
casemarking strategies function in syntactic relations.
Objects in Romance languages are traditionally divided into direct and indirect
objects. In Spanish, both core object functions (indirect object and direct object)
display very similar behaviour when passing tests for objecthood, such as
passivization and adjacency conditions. Leísmo constructions (dative le for
accusative lo/la) create dative-like conditions for accusative objects, causing
syntactic and referential ambiguity. Both objects are marked with a syncretic
formative a that evolved from the Latin locative marker ad, as shown in (51),
and gained grammatical meaning through reanalysis as a casemarker. The sole
diﬀerence between these objects is that the accusative is marked diﬀerentially as
will be shown in section two of this chapter. In direct object marking, personal a
in Standard Spanish varieties is already ambiguous regarding objective case, yet
clitic doubling with agreeing clitics optimises identiﬁability of referents.
There are two competing theories with regard to the functional output of the
syncretic casemarker a in Spanish: it is regarded either as a new accusative
marker (Givón (1997) and Bossong (1991, 2003)) or as an extension of the dative
(Torrego 1999: 1802).
Objects and casemarking 59
Arguing for a new accusative marker – competing theory 1, argued for
by Givón, is that a is a new accusative marker. Givón observes that cross-
linguistically the gradation of direct objecthood is based on a “well documented
semantic and pragmatic overlap between the categories deﬁnite patient (as in
Hebrew), dative and human patient (as in Spanish), dative and pronominal (as
in Provençal), and dative and topical (as in Newari, Nepali)” (Givón 1997: 25). I
wil use this argument to show in section two of this chapter, and in chapters
four, ﬁve and six, that in Spanish contact varieties, pragmatic marking (marking
information structure role) takes precedence over semantic marking (animacy,
deﬁniteness, and speciﬁcity) in non-standardized Latin American dialects. A
diachronically well attested example for Spanish is personal a-marking of
human, animate and inanimate direct object arguments in speciﬁc/topical
contexts, typical patient/theme arguments, as shown in examples (4)–(6) in
chapter one. Therefore, the extension of diﬀerential object marking to topical
objects can be regarded as a natural consequence, giving rise to a new accusa-
tive marker. As will be shown in the next chapters, the strongest evidence for the
new accusative hypothesis is the transition stage of invariant lo in which we see
it as a topicality and transitivity marker in contact dialects.
Competing theory 2 on the other hand receives strong support by the well
documented covariation of lo/le – the end state in a case collapse favouring the
dative in Ecuadorian and Paraguayan Spanish – presenting strong evidence for
the dative hypothesis. The Real Academia Española argues for the accusative
to be “una extensíon del dativo” (an extension of the dative), a view widely sup-
ported by Spanish philologists (Torrego 1999: 1802).2 This view is also defended
by Company (2001, 2003) based on previous work on Mexican Spanish. She
claims that the semantic role of animate recipients of an action marks “the ﬁnal
target of transitivity” (Company 2003: 218). Addressing optional doubling in
River Plate, Laughren and Eisenchlas (2006) also argue for the marked direct
object as a dative object. Alsina (1996b) proposes a binary dative case distinc-
tion [DAT±] for Catalan and more generally for Romance languages, where both
objects are internal arguments (i.e. direct functions as distinct from subject and
oblique functions). These direct functions are morphologically marked by
presence and absence of a casemarker, which for Spanish is the formative a.
He argues for the indirect object to be the dative marked member [DAT+] in this
case opposition, and assumes dative constructions to be prepositional phrases.
The unmarked direct object then becomes the nondative member or [DAT−].
Third person pronominal clitics show morphological marking for case only
2 For an extensive bibliography on the accusative as extension of the dative see Pensado
(1995).
60 Objects, case and clitic doubling
in the dative clitic le(s) and for gender instead of case for the accusative clitics lo
(s) and la(s). For the accusative, the binary dative case distinction [DAT±] would
also allow for diﬀerential object marking.
The Spanish objective marking scheme in Table 3.1 shows that direct and
indirect objects have more properties in common than diﬀerences, both objects
exhibit case and clitic agreement. The properties attainment of a goal, point of
location (endpoint, receiving point) are more prominent in the indirect object.
Direct objects that are most similar to the indirect objects in animacy, individua-
tion, and topicality receive marking. Indirect objects map onto recipient and goal
type thematic roles, marked direct objects map onto patient and theme thematic
roles. In both cases, they share the same feature requirements unlike the
unmarked direct object, which is negatively speciﬁed for the features animacy,
deﬁniteness and speciﬁcity.
Table 3.1: Spanish objective marking, case, clitic agreement and thematic roles
Direct object (DO)
Indirect object marked DO unmarked DO Oblique
Syntax
Case dative a accusative a Ø aGOAL/prep
CL Agreement yes yes no no/csubject
Semantics
Object type recip/goal pat/theme pat/theme unrestricted
[±anim, +def] [±anim, +def] [–anim, –def, –spec]
[+spec/+top] [+spec/+top]
In the case of the direct object, the pointing factor, pointing towards a goal, is
an inherent aspect of the gender incorporating direct object clitics, as discussed
in chapter two for the determiner function of clitics. The gender distinctive direct
object clitics lo, la facilitate identiﬁcation of human and animate individuals,
whereas the indirect object clitic le only agrees in number with its referential
argument. Another inherent aspect of the formative a is the locative meaning,
marking obliques in standard Spanish and allowing for locative doubling in
Andean Spanish.
To summarize the topic on casemarking and grammatical relations. The
major (functional) role of casemarking in Spanish is to distinguish between the
diﬀerent objects the predicate subcategorizes for. Objects make use of the double
strategy, namely casemarking morphology through syncretic a for dependent-
marking, and third person clitics for head-marking. A basic condition for the
Objects and casemarking 61
noun phrase to be recognised as an argument is that it needs to be formally
linked to the predicate by either or both casemarking strategies. It can be argued
that objective casemarking in Spanish should be treated as the interaction of
morphological marking and agreement with semantic roles marking gram-
matical functions. The dative retains semantic case and applies morphological
marking and agreement to show the grammatical function of indirect object.
The direct object is marked diﬀerentially using the same syncretic casemarker a.
In an Optimality-Theoretic analysis of diﬀerential object marking, Aissen
(2003) traces the extension of diﬀerential object marking to a tension between
the two principles economy and iconicity. The principle of economy consists
of simply avoiding casemarking. Iconicity promotes singular/iconic relations
between form (morphological case) and content (object types). The likelihood
of casemarking increases with semantic markedness of the object. This is an
important point for the cross-dialectal variability in clitic doubling and its inno-
vations in Limeño Spanish contact varieities, particularly because it involves
head- and dependent marking as in clitic doubling.
3.2 Clitic doubling
Clitic doubling, as shown in examples (4)–(6) in chapter one, involves co-
occurrence of a clitic – deﬁned as a phonologically dependent, non-projecting
single word – and a coreferential object argument. In Spanish, this extends to
indirect and direct objects and can be linked to Kayne’s Generalization which
requires, as stated in the principle under (8) in chapter one, a case assigner,
such as a preposition, for the doubled noun phrase. While indirect object clitic
doubling is mostly restricted to argumental datives, under certain conditions,
direct object arguments of transitive clauses allow co-occurrence of a pronominal
clitic with a coindexed lexical noun phrase, yielding clitic doubled constructions.
Such constructions also occur in many other languages. Direct object clitic
doubling is much more restricted than indirect object clitic doubling, showing
considerable variability between dialects.3 See Torrego (1993) for an overview of
the nature of clitic doubling and Everett’s (1996) crosslinguistic analysis of case
and agreement.
In pro-drop languages the similarity to verbal agreement, where the verbal
morphology faithfully reﬂects the properties of the subject, is striking.4 For this
3 I refer the reader to the discussion in chapter one for the extra-linguistic background, and to
chapter ﬁve for the range and extent of variability in Limeño Spanish contact varieties in rela-
tion to similar variability elsewhere.
4 See Bresnan (2001c) for an extended discussion.
62 Objects, case and clitic doubling
kind of agreement Anderson (2005) revives the term registration5 or primary
agreement. The distinction between coindexed agreement and registration (non-
coindexed) is linked to ‘strong vs. weak’ agreement (Anderson 2005: 235). Clitics,
coindexed with feature copies that agree with the coreferential determiner phrase
argument, are deﬁned as secondary agreement (Anderson 2005: 231).
Next, I give a synopsis of the cross-dialectal variability of clitic doubling
based on the kinds of diﬀerences speciﬁc dialects exhibit in relation to their
marking strategies before moving on to discuss the main features involved in
clitic doubling.
3.2.1 Dialectal variability and evolving clitic doubling sections
Variability in all dialects is generally motivated by animacy and deﬁniteness
and can be subdivided into three diﬀerent strategies based on diachronic and
regional diﬀerences as well as contact with indigenous languages. Topicality is
an additional factor that plays a very important role in accounts of liberal clitic
doubling dialects such as Lima and River Plate Spanish as it raises the question
whether Spanish deﬁnes agreement and case in accordance with information
structure roles or grammatical function. In Limeño Spanish contact varieties,
the change from agreeing to non-agreeing clitics and extension of liberal clitic
doubling to inanimate noun phrases indicates a move from semantic to prag-
matic marking strategies only.
Present day Peninsular Spanish systems are based on inherent variability and
semantic strategies with agreeing clitics restricted to pronominal objects. More-
over, they never showed a single and consistent system (Alarcos Llorach 1994).
The rather non-homogeneous situation is based on a binary system of pronoun
use, which is a combination of an etymological paradigm a shown in (52a) and
partial leísmo concerning mainly male humans as in (52b), as well as regionally
restricted loísmo and laísmo as described in chapter one, section three.
(52) Etymological Peninsular Spanish
a. Lo veo a él.
CL3MSG see-1SG DOM PRO3MSG
‘I see him.’
Leísmo ‘masculine, de cortesía’
b. Le veo a él.
CL3SG see-1SG DOM PRO3MSG
‘I see him.’
5 Following from the distinction introduced by Perlmutter and Postal (Perlmutter, 1983) in
Relational Grammar.
Clitic doubling 63
All variability is motivated by the semantic factors animacy and deﬁniteness.6
In dialectal variability in Peninsular Spanish in contact with Basque a diﬀerent
leísmo variant can be found in bilingual Spanish (Ormazabal and Romero 2013)
which is comparable to the Latin American contact varieties as shown in (53b)
below.
The combination of the ideal highly standardized etymological system with
leísmo, loísmo and laísmo variants became the basis of Latin American variability.
Latin American variability is motivated by semantic and pragmatic strategies
with topicality playing an important role in liberal clitic doubling varieties
in (53a) still maintaining feature-agreeing clitics in these dialects though. The
Latin American as well as the Basque contact varieties shows the same leísmo
strategies as in (53b) in bilingual Spanish in contact with indigeneous languages
that do not mark gender.
(53) Riverplate Spanish, Lima Spanish
a. La veo a la maestra.
CL3FSG see-1SG DOM DET.FSG teacher-3FSG
‘I see the teacher.’
Contact leísmo, bilingual Spanish
b. Le veo a la maestra.
CL3SG see-1SG DOM DET.FSG teacher-3FSG
‘I see the teacher.’
Unlike the marking strategies in Peninsular Spanish, the variability in Latin
America is marked by a transition from purely semantic features to include
the pragmatic features speciﬁcity and topicality, as noted by Yépez (1986) for
Quiteño, and Suñer (1988) and Silva-Corvalán (1995) for River Plate. Topicality or
object saliency has been linked to liberal clitic doubling in River Plate Spanish
by Estigarribia (2005) in a Lexical-Functional Grammar – Optimality-theoretic
and Estigarribia (2006) in a functional account. Belloro (2007), within the frame-
work of Role and Reference Grammar, links liberal direct object clitic doubling
in Buenos Aires Spanish to pragmatic strategies, speciﬁcally focusing on an un-
expected accessibility level given to a particular referent. In a Lexical-Functional
Grammar approach, Andrews (1990) introduced the Morphological Blocking
Principle to formalise optionality of direct object clitic doubling in River Plate
Spanish. Mayer (2003) applied this principle to liberal clitic doubling in Standard
6 Cuervo (1895); Klein-Andreu (1981, 1992); Leonetti (2007, 2008), Lapesa (1968), Quilis (1985),
Fernández Ordóñez (1993, 1994, 1999, 2007), Fernández Soriano (1999), Bleam (1999).
64 Objects, case and clitic doubling
Limeño Spanish. The principles of economy and consistency and the role of object
clitics in liberal clitic doubling in River Plate and Peruvian Spanish have been
treated in Bresnan (2001c), Dalrymple (2001) and Grimshaw (1982b), by analysing
syntax and grammaticalization issues.
To my best of knowledge, the only studies speciﬁcally on Lima Spanish
optional clitic doubling with agreeing clitics are my own (Mayer 2003, 2006)
and those of Sánchez (2006, 2010). Sánchez, giving a minimalist account,
assumes with Suñer (1988) and Uriagereka (1995) that deﬁniteness and speciﬁcity
features allow clitics to enter agreement relations with arguments. Optionality
in Sánchez’ account is treated as agreement with determiner phrases in non-
argument positions. Mayer, based on Lexical-Functional Grammar, correlates
optionality of the semantic properties of the argument, lexical semantics and
information packaging with marking at least two diﬀerent kinds of objects in
argument position. Sánchez and Zdrojewski (2013) compare direct object clitic
doubling with agreeing clitics in Buenos Aires and Lima, and, in Zdrojewski
and Sánchez (2014), they extend the comparison to include Andean contact
Spanish. In these studies, the diachronic shift from optional to obligatory co-
occurrence is explained by a reanalysis hypothesis bearing on the morphological
status of the clitic.
Finally, the most variable stage is found in Andean Spanish (Caravedo
1996–1997; Luján 1987; Palacios 1998, 2013), and speciﬁcally in Limeño Spanish
contact varieties exhibiting non-agreeing clitics prominently with invariant lo
as in (54a) and free clitic doubling as in extending clitic doubling to deﬁnite
inanimates in (54b). These innovations contrast strongly with the Lima Spanish
norm and must be judged in terms of monolingual and bilingual varieties found
on a continuum of language acquisition.
(54) Limeño Spanish contact varieties
a. Lo conoce a las chicas.
CL3MSG know-3SG DOM DET.FPL girl.FPL
‘She knows the girls.’
b. Lo licuo al ajo.
CL3MSG blend-1SG DOM-DET.MSG garlic.MSG
‘I blend the garlic.’
Non-agreeing clitics including contact clitics are clitics that are reduced to
person agreement; in having lost gender and number marking they do not
‘agree’ any longer with their coreferential argument – hence the term non-agreeing
clitics. This indicates a move from semantic strategies to pragmatic strategies in
Clitic doubling 65
object marking, where the non-agreeing clitics merely register the object on the
verb. Chapters four, ﬁve and six are devoted to the description and analysis of
this variability.
Descriptive work on Andean Spanish and contact clitics treats the intensive
contact and related phenomena found in the capital Lima after several migration
waves from rural Andean and Amazonian areas.7 These developments triggered
research about the eﬀect of bilingualism on verbal clitic variability (Escobar 1988,
1990; García 1990; Paredes 1996; Sánchez 2003), an extensive sociolinguistic
study of the Spanish of Lima (Caravedo 1990), and a clitics-in-contact case study
(Caravedo 1999). The longitudinal quantitative studies of contact-induced lan-
guage change in Limeño clitics by Klee and Caravedo (2006) identiﬁed and
described all extralinguistic variables, identiﬁed social networks as well as
second language acquisition conditions; these authors also state a pressing
need for research on verbal subcategorization requirements and constraining
features of the object, such as animacy, deﬁniteness and speciﬁcity. These issues
have been partially addressed in Mayer (2008) and extended in Mayer (2010). A
pilot study by Camacho and Sánchez (2002) reports a case paradigm simpliﬁ-
cation for Shipibo Spanish contact speakers, and, depending on the contact
variety, yielding free variation. Building on this work and including the syntax-
information structure interface, some work in the last few years links apparent
free variation to a scalar clitic system in monolingual and bilingual contact
speakers.8
In sum, there is substantial agreement that optional direct object clitic
doubling with agreeing clitics is licensed by the interaction of the categories
animacy, deﬁniteness and speciﬁcity. These semantic and pragmatic object mark-
ing strategies with agreeing clitics are the focus of the following sections.
3.2.2 Agreement and crossreferencing
In clitic doubling constructions Standard Spanish marks both core grammatical
functions, the indirect object and the direct object, twofold. It uses dependent-
marking to identify grammatical functions through a syncretic case/object
marker, and head-marking agreement morphology in the form of a set of
7 Muysken (1984), Godenzzi (1986), Luján (1987), Klee (1990), Cerrón Palomino (1992, 2003),
Lipski (1994), Escobar (1994), Haboud (1996), Camacho, Paredes and Sánchez (1995), Pérez
(1997).
8 Dalrymple and Nikoleva (2011), Mayer (2008, 2010, 2013, 2015) and Mayer and Sánchez (2016,
2017a, 2017b, 2017c)
66 Objects, case and clitic doubling
feature-speciﬁc clitics to optionally cross-reference the object on the verb. The
latter is a deictic strategy; in that it requires additional context to resolve the
reference.
In the Peninsular Spanish norm, direct object clitic doubling is restricted to
doubling of strong pronouns as shown in (55).
(55) Pedro loi / laj vio a éli / ellaj.
Peter CL3MSG / CL3FSG see-PAST-3SG DOM PRO3MSG / PRO3FSG
‘Peter saw him/her.’
Doubling of full lexical noun phrases as in (56a) does not obtain in Peninsular
Spanish and the clitic and the overt nominal argument are in complementary
distribution.
(56) a. *Los invitaron a Claudia y a Carlos.
CL3MSPL invite-PAST-3PL DOM Claudia and DOM Carlos
‘Them, they invited Claudia and Carlos.’
b. Los invitaron.
CL3MPL invite-PAST-3PL
‘They invited them.’
Liberal clitic doubling dialects allow direct object doubling of lexical noun
phrases (57). Optionality of doubling expresses a pragmatic factor involved.
(57) (Los) invitaron a Claudia y a Carlos.
CL3MPL invite-PAST-3PL DOM Claudia and DOM Carlos
‘Them, they invited Claudia and Carlos.’
Feature-agreeing clitics allow identiﬁcation of their referential argument. Example
(57) illustrates the correlation of clitics as agreement markers and the argument
position they are linked to.
In all dialects, left-dislocated or preposed noun phrase arguments require
an immediate preverbally located pronominal copy. This applies to direct objects
(58a) and indirect objects as well as leísmo objects in (58b) that resemble very
closely indirect objects. Right-dislocated noun phrases in (58c) also show
co-variation of the accusative and dative clitic and extra material, an adverb in
this case, marking right dislocation as it is located between the verb and the
marked object. Clitic doubling would also be possible in (58a) and (58b) with
the adverb following the noun phrase argument (A Juan ayer lo vi.). The clitic
and the verb form a phonological phrase and can therefore not be separated.
Clitic doubling 67
(58) a. A Juan lo vi ayer.
DOM Juan CL3MSG see-PAST-1SG yesterday
‘[It was] Juan I saw yesterday.’
b. A Juan le vi ayer.
DOM Juan CL3SG see-PAST-1SG yesterday
‘[It was] Juan I saw yesterday.’
c. Lo / le vi ayer a Juan.
CL3MSG / CL3SG see-PAST-1SG yesterday DOM Juan
‘Juan, I saw him yesterday.’
Note that the change of lo to le in (58b), a case of leísmo,9 is ambiguous as to
grammatical function but shows the same morphosyntactic representation on a
phrase structure tree, representation (constituent-structure), as shown in this
chapter section 4.1.
Examples (55) to (58) show that clitic doubling and/or object marking with
agreeing clitics can be linked to Kayne’s Generalization which in Spanish
involves a-marking (dative case and diﬀerential object marking) the direct object
and a set of feature-speciﬁc clitics [animacy, speciﬁcity, gender, number, person]
that match the features of their coreferential argument.10
Diﬀerential object marking is a cross-linguistically well attested system to
optionally mark direct objects ranked for their prominence on two scales:
animacy and deﬁniteness, or on a two-dimensional scale based on the interac-
tion of both (Bossong 1991, 2003; Aissen 2003).11 The presence and interaction of
the referential categories animacy, deﬁniteness, and speciﬁcity have been well
described for Spanish.12 These features from diﬀerent parts of the grammar are
reﬂected in various morphosyntactic phenomena. The present discussion is
restricted to clitic doubling and diﬀerential object marking (a-marking).13 These
agreement morphology features are the topic of the next subsections.
9 Recall that in Standard Spanish leísmo is restricted to mainly male humans and exhibits
exensive cross-dialectal variability.
10 Kayne’s Generalization is stated as (6) in chapter one.
11 See chapter four for a full discussion of the diachronic evolution and grammaticization of
diﬀerential object marking.
12 For Standard Spanish see Fernández Ordóñez (1999), Leonetti (2004, 2008), von Heusinger
(2002, 2011), and von Heusinger and Kaiser (2007); for River Plate Spanish see Suñer (1988);
for Limeño contact see Camacho and Sánchez (2002); and for Ecuadorian Spanish see Yépez
(1986).
13 For a more detailed exposition see Mayer (2003, 2006) and chapter four in this book.
68 Objects, case and clitic doubling
3.3 Referential categories
I begin by establishing the diﬀerence between deﬁniteness and speciﬁcity,
followed by a discussion of animacy and diﬀerential object marking.
3.3.1 Deﬁniteness vs. speciﬁcity
Spanish encodes deﬁniteness overtly in lexical markers, namely a pair of
number- and gender-distinctive deﬁnite and indeﬁnite determiners. Speciﬁcity
lacks such a lexical marker and uses the formative a in its role as diﬀerential
object marker, aﬀecting deﬁnite as well as indeﬁnite noun phrases.
The deﬁnition of deﬁniteness is a contentious issue. Givón (1979) deﬁnes a
deﬁnite as an identiﬁable or referentially accessible existence within the Domain
of the relevant discourse. Conversely, von Heusinger (2002) claims that deﬁnite-
ness cannot solely be deﬁned in terms of identiﬁablity; in his view factors such
as uniqueness, saliency, familiarity, functionality and others, play an important
role, and the importance placed on them depends on the theoretical framework
being used. Deﬁniteness always shows the functional connection of the new
referent with a previously introduced item in the discourse. Thus, deﬁniteness
is a discourse feature; its function crosses sentence boundaries. The Familiarity
Condition is deﬁned after Heim (1988) in von Heusinger (2002: 268) as follows:
(59) A noun phrasei in a sentence ø with respect to a File F and the
Domain of ﬁlenames DOM (F) is
(i) [+deﬁnite] if i a DOM (F), and it is
(ii) [–deﬁnite] if i c DOM (F)
This means that any indexed noun phrase that is part of the discourse is deﬁnite.
The Domain (F) is deﬁned in accordance with the following instructions for
ﬁle-keeping: ‘For every indeﬁnite, start a new card; for every deﬁnite, update a
suitable old card.’ Hence the Domain F is ‘the set that contains every number
which is the number of some card in F’ (Heim 1988: 302–304).
In the late 1960s the term speciﬁcity14 was introduced to further describe a
general phenomenon that attributes value to variables in a variety of ways. The
literature on this point deals mainly with speciﬁc indeﬁnite noun phrases and
categorizes them in various ways. The diﬀerent kinds of speciﬁcity can be
analyzed from two main points of view: scope (Farkas 2002) and referentiality
14 Martinet (1960) and Lakoﬀ (1968) were among the ﬁrst to identify the concept of speciﬁcity.
Referential categories 69
(Fodor and Sag 1982). A third view is Enç (1991), who makes a very important
distinction between relational and partitive speciﬁcity based on Heim’s familiarity
condition of deﬁnite vs. indeﬁnite noun phrases.
Indeﬁnite and deﬁnite noun phrases can be distinguished semantically by
the uniqueness condition. Some languages mark these diﬀerences morphologi-
cally or lexically while others do not. Suñer (1988) and von Heusinger (2002)
among others claim that Spanish uses the animacy marker a as a morphosyntactic
marker for speciﬁcity. Leonetti (2004, 2008 ) exposes in detail the speciﬁcity eﬀects
that arise in an environment of diﬀerential object marking and clitic doubling,
focusing on diﬀerential object marking in terms of an animacy marker.
Based on Heusinger’s notation of Heim’s familiarity condition (59) and a
modiﬁed version of Enç’s (1991) Speciﬁcity/Partitivity Condition, von Heusinger
proposes a ‘referential anchoring approach’, which posits that speciﬁcity should
be analyzed in terms of the ‘referential structure’ of the text. The Speciﬁcity Con-
dition (von Heusinger 2007: 286) in (60) restricts the linking of reference indices
internally to the sentence, referentiality is thus sentence-bound. This contrasts
with deﬁniteness, which is discourse-bound.
(60) An noun phrasei in a sentence φ with respect to a File (F) and the Domain
of ﬁlenames Dom (φ) is [+speciﬁc] if there is a contextually salient function
f such that i = f ( j) and j a Dom (φ)
In other words, the speciﬁcity of a noun phrase is given if its ﬁlename (index)
can be described as a contextually salient function of the ﬁlename of another
noun phrase within the same sentence (Domain of ﬁle names) or in short as
in (61).
(61) i = f( j) and j a Dom (φ)
This deﬁnition of speciﬁcity corresponds roughly to ‘identiﬁable’ by Bossong
(1991). For my claim that speciﬁcity and not deﬁniteness is the licensing factor
in direct object clitic doubling, it is fundamental to state that indeﬁnites intro-
duce a novelty into the Domain of discourse, whereas deﬁnite noun phrases
must denote an entity familiar to the addressee. The chain of events is used to
determine if novelty has been brought into the Domain of discourse.
Finally, the slight but signiﬁcant diﬀerences between the terms speciﬁcity,
identiﬁability and presuppositionality need to be addressed.
In studies of clitic doubling and speciﬁcity, the term presupposed is generally
used in the sense of partitive speciﬁcity. As for example in the sense of Enç
(1991), where objects in the domain of discourse are linked by the interpretation
70 Objects, case and clitic doubling
of representing a subset – the imaginable subset of some superset. A very
similar approach is discourse-linking (D-linking) presented by Pesetsky (1987).
However, mere existential presupposition, as generally assumed in logic, is
not quite suﬃcient to identify a presupposed entity. If a presupposed entity
only exists in the mind of the speaker and is not present (anchored or having
been activated) in the mind of the hearer, then identiﬁability cannot take place.
As Lambrecht (1994: 78) remarks:
[. . .] the relevant property of an identiﬁable referent is not that it is pre-supposed to exist,
but that the speaker assumes that it has a certain representation in the mind of the
addressee which can be evoked in a given discourse.
From this it follows that there must be a link between the subject referent and
the object referent for the purpose of identiﬁability. This is a crucial point for
the linking of clitic doubling with non-agreeing clitics in contact varieties to
secondary topic marking as I put forward in this book from chapter four
onwards. Another important point is the inherently gradable property of identi-
ﬁability, as opposed to the clear-cut existence or non-existence of speciﬁcity and
presuppositionality. An entity is either speciﬁc or not, presupposed or not, but
identiﬁability is not so clear-cut. The gradability of identiﬁability can be related
to a distinction between anaphoric agreement and grammatical agreement. In
anaphoric agreement, the anaphoric pronouns assume existence of the referred
object and maintain its continued relevance in the text. Identiﬁcation of the
referent obtains as long as its anaphor agrees with the coindexed referential
argument (in terms of feature agreement).
3.3.2 Animacy
As we have already seen in examples (55) to (58), animacy in Spanish is
encoded in the overt morphosyntactic marker (formative) a, broadly known as
prepositional accusative, giving rise to diﬀerential object marking. However,
because of its multiple roles, the formative a resists a uniﬁed analysis as a
mere animacy marker, as the single form has three functions, as shown in (62).
A is homophonous with the locative preposition a, having semantic content
and being replaceable by another preposition in oblique arguments. Further, a
serves as object marker (OM), optionally marking direct objects as diﬀerential
object marker (DOM) and as dative casemarker (DAT) for indirect objects.15
15 See Mayer (2003) for a ﬁrst discussion of the tripartite division.
Referential categories 71
(62)
These functions are exempliﬁed in examples (63), with (63a) representing the
locative preposition, (63b) the diﬀerential object marker (DOM), and (63c) the
dative casemarker (DAT).
(63) a. Pasó el río con el agua a / hasta la cintura.
crossed-3SG the river with the water PREP / PREP the waist
‘(S)he crossed the river with the water reaching to her/his waist.’
b. Juan estima a Pedro.
Juan appreciate-3SG DOM Pedro
‘Juan appreciates Pedro.’
c. Les ofrecieron entradas gratis a los visitantes.
CL3PL oﬀer-PAST-3PL tickets free DAT the visitors
‘They oﬀered the visitors free tickets.’
Example (63b) illustrates the complex uses of the object marker, which include
personal a16 to mark human objects and diﬀerential object marking to mark
personifying animal objects (pets) and inanimate and speciﬁc objects as dis-
cussed in chapter one.
In some languages, for example in an Australian language (64), grammatical
animacy does not necessarily coincide with our biological understanding of the
world on a culture-sensitive animacy scale17
.
(64) Wagawaga dialect Duudidjawu (Wurm 1976: 107)
a. unam-bu buginy-na bum-be:
Children-ERG dog-ACC beat-PRES
‘Children are beating the dog.’
b. a-dyu bum-i man goro:man (*goro:man-na) dyuyume.
I-ERG kill-past this kangaroo (*kangaroo-ACC) yesterday
‘I killed this kangaroo yesterday.’
16 Personal a is relatively unknown in other Romance languages except for Sicilian and some
northern Italian dialects.
17 Obviously, the scale diﬀers from culture to culture, see chapter four for Hindi (Mohanan
1994).
72 Objects, case and clitic doubling
In this language, pronouns and nouns denoting humans, as well as proper
nouns, receive accusative marking, and some animates, like dogs (64a), as well.
Further, the words tree and ﬁre might be included following Wurm. Kangaroos
however are excluded, as we can see in (64b).
Prominence on a ‘culture sensitive animacy hierarchy’, where human out-
ranks animate over inanimate is explained by Mohanan (1994). This topic will
be discussed fully in chapter four. In this section, I brieﬂy lay the basis for
an understanding of the relationship between animacy and diﬀerential object
marking in relation to clitic doubling in standard Spanish and in liberal clitic
doubling dialects.
The facts exposed above conﬁrm that animacy is a multidimensional category
showing considerable diachronic and crosslinguistic variability. The grammatical-
ization of this diﬀerence is captured by Silverstein (1976) in a combined person
and animacy hierarchy, reproduced in (65).
(65) Person: 1 (speaker) > 2 (addressee) > 3 pronoun > personal name, kin
term > human > animate > inanimate
Building on this work, Aissen (2003) suggested a revised two-dimensional scale
(66) replacing person with deﬁniteness, to model the interaction of animacy and
diﬀerential object marking.
(66) Animacy: human > animate > inanimate
Deﬁniteness: pronoun > proper noun > deﬁnite noun phrase >
indeﬁnite speciﬁc noun phrase > indeﬁnite nonspeciﬁc noun phrase
The two semantic properties animacy and deﬁniteness, as shown in (67), are
measured on a scale, the pragmatic property speciﬁcity/topicality on the other
hand is activated to achieve a speciﬁc purpose within a given discourse situation.
(67) animacy deﬁniteness speciﬁcity/topicality
scale scale binary distinction [±]
In other words, diﬀerential object marking depends on the following factors:
1. a culture sensitive animacy scale,
2. a scale of referential categories with diﬀerent values, and
3. [±] speciﬁcity/topicality inferred by the interaction of factors 1 and 2
Before the discussion of the interaction between diﬀerential object marking and
speciﬁcity in the next subsection, an explanation of the formative a as a true
Referential categories 73
animacy marker vs. speciﬁcity marker is needed. The relevance of the formative
a as an animacy marker is particularly obvious in quantiﬁed phrases as in (68a)
and (68b) which can be clitic doubled; only the a-marking of (68a) is an
instance of true animacy marking. Clitic doubling of these arguments can be
analyzed in terms of partitive speciﬁcity (referentially identiﬁable).18 The quan-
tiﬁer todas in these examples is a quantiﬁcation over a set, with each todas
referring to an imaginable subset of a superset.
(68) Suñer (1988: 401) [+animate]
a. Ya las lavé a todas.
already CL3FPL wash-PAST-1SG DOM all
‘I have already washed them all.’ (for example: the girls)
Suñer (1988: 401) [–animate]
b. Ya las lavé todas.
already CL3FPL wash-PAST-1SG all
‘I have already washed everything.’ (for example: dolls)
Kayne’s Generalization applies only to the animate example (68a) as an example
for personal a marking; note that only liberal clitic doubling dialects, such as
River Plate and Standard Limeño Spanish, allow clitic doubling of quantiﬁed
arguments.
Another example for personal a is given in (69). Leonetti (1999) considers
the property animacy as the canonical trigger for diﬀerential object marking in
Spanish. Arguing from a semantic point of view, he analyzes personal a in (69)
as an instance of a true animacy marker and against an analysis of personal a as
conveying speciﬁcity to the indeﬁnite, animate determiner phrase.
(69) Leonetti (1999: 866) [personal a]
Vimos *(a) unas mujeres en la plaza.
see-PAST-1PL *(A) INDEF.PL women PREP DEF market place
‘We saw some women in the market place.’
However, Leonetti does distinguish between extensional arguments (70a) that
receive a speciﬁc reading through a-marking, also indicated by the indicative in
the subordinate clause, and intensional arguments (70b), which generally reject
a-marking. Speciﬁc in (70a) means ‘implied’ existence; the doctor is a pre-
supposed entity, so the statement entails existence of such a person.
18 See section 3.2.3 for Enç’s relational and partitive speciﬁcity.
74 Objects, case and clitic doubling
(70) Spanish (Bello 1984: 268)
a. Fueron a buscar a un médico extranjero
go-PAST-3PL PREP ﬁnd-INF DOM INDEF doctor foreign
que gozaba de una gran reputación.
that enjoy-PAST-3SG PREP INDEF great reputation
‘They went to look for a foreign doctor who enjoyed a great reputation.’
b. Fueron a buscar un médico que
go-PAST-3PL PREP ﬁnd-INF INDEF doctor that
conociera bien las enfermedades del país.
know-SBJV-3SG well DET.FPL disease.FPL of-the country
‘They went to look for a doctor who would know about the diseases
of the country.’
The use of the subjunctive in (70b) renders the human direct object unspeciﬁc,
therefore no a-marking is used. The correlation between subjunctive mood,
deﬁniteness and speciﬁcity has been acknowledged by Luján (1987), Rivero
(1975) and Torrego (1998) and does not seem to vary between dialects.
Turning now to liberal clitic doubling dialects where the distinction between
animacy marker and speciﬁcity marker in inanimate arguments is much less
clear cut. For the clitic doubled inanimate argument in (71) below, Suñer (1989)
argues that diﬀerential object marking applied to the inanimate speciﬁc (identi-
ﬁable) object is marking speciﬁcity and not animacy. Suñer claims that a-
marking makes the inanimate direct object argument available for clitic doubling
by conveying a speciﬁc/topical function. Note that examples of this kind are
typical grammaticalized extensions in liberal clitic doubling dialects requiring
an analysis based on speciﬁcity and more importantly on topicality.
(71) Liberal clitic doubling dialects [–anim][+spec] (Suñer 1989: 379)
Lo quiero mucho a este arbolito.
CL3MSG like-1SG much DOM DEM.MSG tree-little
‘I like this little tree very much.’
The preceding examples show that the presence or absence of personifying a
signals a degree of animacy and/or distinctness which can also be linked to
clitic doubling constructions. The use of deﬁnite articles or demonstratives, as
in example (71), presuppose that the common noun they modify is a singleton,
or in the case of quantiﬁers, a subset of a known superset. Indeﬁnite articles, on
the other hand, do not trigger presuppositionality, even with a speciﬁc reading
Referential categories 75
as in (69). Clitic doubling of animate and inanimate arguments can represent
diﬀerent object marking strategies, showing an interesting parallel between
typologically diﬀerent language families such as Romance and Bantu. In both,
animacy and diﬀerential object marking are subject to animacy restrictions but
allow optional doubling, speciﬁcally for inanimate arguments, licensed by a mix
of semantic and pragmatic restrictions as shown in the next section.
3.3.3 Diﬀerential object marking, speciﬁcity and clitic doubling
The previous discussion has established that animacy in the context of object
marking in Spanish is to be explored in terms of diﬀerential object marking,
which in turn is intrinsically associated with the semantic features deﬁniteness
and speciﬁcity and the pragmatic feature topicality. Speciﬁcity restrictions only
apply to object marking by diﬀerential object marking and clitic doubling of
direct objects.
As shown in chapter one, in Standard Spanish, diﬀerential object marking
obligatorily marks existent human direct objects, as shown in (72).19
(72) Standard Spanish [+human][+anim][+exist]
Vi *(a) Ana/Pablo.
see-PAST-1SG DOM Ana/Pablo
‘I saw Ana/Pablo.’
Optional marking is extended to personiﬁed animals (73a) and optionally to
places (73b); both examples are from the Real Academia Española (1985: 372).
(73) Standard Spanish [+anim][+exist]/[+spec]
a. Don Quijote cabalgaba a Rocinante.
Don Quijote ride-PAST-3SG DOM Rocinante
‘Don Quijote rode Rocinante.’
Standard Spanish [–anim][+exist]/[+spec]
b. Deseo ver (a) Roma.
wish-1SG see-INF DOM Rome
‘I wish to see Rome.’
19 This falls under ‘personal a’; see also examples (50) to (58).
76 Objects, case and clitic doubling
Optionality here in fact means that at least two diﬀerent kinds of objects are
marked, correlating with the semantic properties of the object noun phrase, in
this case animacy and deﬁniteness possibly yielding speciﬁcity, and with lexical
semantics and information packaging. The two non-human arguments must be
speciﬁc [+spec], i.e. referentially recoverable from the context or identiﬁable.20
Object marking of this kind does not happen only in Spanish; there is an
interesting and well documented connection between Romance object agree-
ment and Bantu object agreement. Asymmetrical Bantu languages, for example
Chicheŵa, a Bantu language of Malawi, mark either the object or the applied
object but not both at the same time (Bresnan and Mchombo 1987; Bresnan and
Moshi 1990). In this language, subject markers are obligatory and object markers
are optional and may obey the economy principle. The object marker is always an
incorporated pronoun; co-occurrence with the corresponding object argument is
restricted to topical status of the latter.
Swahili, a Bantu language from Tanzania, shows more liberal object mark-
ing than other Bantu languages (74), which also show similarities with Spanish
regarding animacy restriction, optionality and economy. Clitic doubling in
Swahili obtains with a human referent in (74a) and optionally with an inanimate
object in (74b) and (74c).
(74) Swahili (Hoekstra and Sybesma 2004: 114–115)
a. Ahmed a-li-m-piga (Badru).
Ahmed he-PAST-him-hit Badru
‘Ahmed hit him/Badru.’
b. Ahmed a-li-funguna mlango.
Ahmed he-PAST-open door
‘Ahmed opened the door.’
c. Ahmed a-li-u-funguna (mlango).
Ahmed he-PAST-it-open door
‘Ahmed opened the door.’
As in Spanish, co-occurrence of the overt object noun phrase and the clitic is only
considered grammatical if the marked inanimate example in (74c) is speciﬁc/
topical.
20 Speciﬁc referents must exist in the mind of the speaker and have a mental representation in
the mind of the addressee which can be evoked in the discourse in which they occur. Recall the
deﬁnition of identiﬁability given in chapter 3 section 3.1. Identiﬁable referents are referentially
anchored in the discourse in the sense of von Heusinger (2002, 2007).
Referential categories 77
Finally, the correlation of clitic doubling and diﬀerential object marking needs
to be addressed as well. The co-occurrence is known as Kayne’s Generalization,
formalised in Kayne (1975), based on dative case marking and co-occurring
clitics in French. It stipulates that clitic doubling is only possible when the
doubled noun phrase has its own case assigner, a preposition for example
(Jaeggli 1982: 20). Kayne’s Generalization holds for indirect object clitic doubling
in all Standard Spanish varieties (European and Latin American) and for a
certain range of direct objects that resemble very closely indirect objects in
terms of prominence on Aissen’s two-dimensional scale in (55). The treatment
can be extended to Romanian pe (von Heusinger and Onea 2008) and some
Semitic languages. These facts could count as arguments in favour of Kayne’s
Generalization. Note that the generalization only holds for monotransitives;
ditransitives show one case assigner only. I assume regulation of double mark-
ing according to the Restricted Argument Parameter (Alsina 2001).21
However, countless counter examples, among them some Slavic languages
like Bulgarian (Jaegger and Gerassimova 2002; Rudin 1997) and Macedonian
(Franks and Holloway King 2000), Greek (Alexiadou and Anagnostopoulou
2000; Anagnostopoulou 2006), liberal clitic doubling dialects (Suñer and Yepéz
1988, 1989) and even more so non-standardized (contact) dialects as described
in section 2.1 in this chapter, clearly show that languages diﬀer with regard to
(non)-conﬁgurationality (Alexiadou and Anagnostopoulou 2000: 11) and the
status of the doubling clitic. Languages like Greek seem to have referential
clitics as opposed to Standard European, American Spanish as well as Romanian,
where clitics can be interpreted as agreement markers.
Most importantly to my analysis here is the existence of strong diachronic
evidence of clitic doubling of topical and focal inanimate arguments in old
Spanish (1200-1450) whithout diﬀerential object marking as shown in (75).22
(75) Old Spanish (Cor. 190, Rivero 1986: 791)
Con su marido, su padre o sus parientes no
with POSS husband POSS father or POSS relatives not
loj sufriera tal pasarj
CL3MSG suﬀer-3SG-SUBJUNC such grief.MSG
‘She would not suﬀer such grief with her husband, father, or relatives.’
21 I will discuss this further in chapter six.
22 Clitics in old Spanish were weak phonological pronominals encliticized to the verb.
78 Objects, case and clitic doubling
Rivero (1986) analyzes clitic doubling phrases in Old Spanish as syntactic topics.
This is an important fact for the analysis of clitic doubling in non-standardized
varieties, as it suggests continuity of pragmatic strategies from diachronic
evidence from Peninsular Spanish to new evidence from my own corpus for
Latin American Spanish. It also raises the question of whether utterances of
this kind are actual clitic doubling examples or simple dislocations.
The distributional facts for direct and indirect clitic doubling in Spanish are
given in the dot points below. Object agreement is restricted to the presence of
any one of the following sets of features.
The limits for direct object clitic doubling, including for liberal doubling
dialects, are:
– animate and pronominal arguments
– animate and deﬁnite/speciﬁc/topical arguments
– animate and indeﬁnite/speciﬁc/focal arguments
The limits for indirect object clitic doubling are:
– animate and recipient/beneﬁciary arguments
– goal arguments
– inalienable possession
In sum, direct object clitic doubling and diﬀerential object marking is motivated
by semantic strategies based on animacy and deﬁniteness. Diﬀerential object
marking introduces the pragmatic notion of speciﬁcity/topicality. Whether these
pragmatic notions are encoded lexically or grammatically is a moot point which
will be further discussed in the following chapters. The properties/features of an
object noun phrase are important, but to a lesser extent than the relationship
between the verb and its object. This fact constitutes more evidence for objective
agreement. In liberal clitic doubling dialects, the preference for pragmatic
strategies over semantic strategies points to a direct interaction between the
clitic and the discourse conﬁguration and/or the grammatical function conﬁgura-
tion of the marked object. In these dialects, and especially in non-standardized
contact varieties, analyses of speciﬁcity, and more importantly topicality restricted
to semantic reasoning (Leonetti 2004, 2008) fail to capture the underlying syn-
tactic and information-structural motivations for clitic doubling constructions.
The last part of this chapter presents a brief and simpliﬁed sketch of the
syntax of direct object clitic doubling in the Lexical-Functional Grammar frame-
work.
Referential categories 79
3.4 A Lexical-Functional Grammar view of clitic doubling
As already introduced in chapter one, section eight, Lexical-Functional Grammar
is a lexicalist, constraint-based theory with a parallel architecture. The modular
nature of this framework allows for an adequate and precise representation of
the grammatical structures and their variability treated in this book. The theoreti-
cally oriented description of clitic doubling in Spanish in this section is based
mainly on Alsina (1996b); Andrews (1990); Bresnan (2001a, 2001b; Bresnan
et al. 2016), Falk (2001) and Dalrymple (2001).
Most languages in the world diﬀer considerably in the way they mark
grammatical relations, in how much and how little morphology they put into
casemarking and agreement for example, nonetheless they share widely some
grammatical functions, such as subject and object among others. The principle
of nonconﬁgurationality allows for language-speciﬁc conﬁguration of gram-
matical information at the level of lexical elements.
The relational architecture assumes three main parallel corresponding struc-
tures at the level of syntax (Bresnan et al. 2016: 15; Falk 2001). An example will
be given in (78) below.
– argument (a-) structure:
represents the verb and its subcategorization frame; it links the arguments
to their respective thematic (semantic) roles on semantic structure
– functional (f-) structure:
represents the verb and its subcategorization frame, the features of the
arguments and their mapping onto the respective grammatical functions in
an attribute value matrix; f-structure interacts with information structure
representing discourse functions
– constituent (c-) structure:
presents categorial information about the constituents of a sentence in the
form of a phrase structure tree and interacts with phonological structure
Any sentence expresses a variety of linguistic information encoded in grammatical
functions on diﬀerent levels. In section one I will discuss clitic morphology, surface
structure and mapping to functional structure, followed by the distinction between
core and non-core argument functions in relation to clitic doubling.
3.4.1 From constituent structure to functional structure
Since syntactic structures are built from words, the lexicon is very important
and constrains constituent structure in accordance with the Principle of Lexical
Integrity in (76) (Bresnan 2001c: 92).
80 Objects, case and clitic doubling
(76) Morphologically complete words are leaves of the c-structure tree and
each leaf corresponds to one and only one c-structure node.
Clitics in general are problematic for the Principle of Lexical Integrity due to a
morphology-syntax mismatch, as discussed for Romance clitics in chapter two,
section two. For example, because European Portuguese clitics are analyzed as
proclitic aﬃxes and not independent words, they cannot be assigned a position
on constituent structure in Luís and Sadler (2003).
The morphological classiﬁcation of Spanish clitics as aﬃxes or non-
projecting words is not clear-cut. They exhibit mixed properties, behaving on
the one hand in a word-like way by showing a high degree of morphological
independence from their verbal host, but they also show aﬃx-like behaviour
in being subject to the morphological blocking constraint (Andrews 1990).
In chapter two, subsection 4.3, I categorized Spanish clitics as non projecting
small words, based on a projection/dependence matrix (Toivonen (2003). Clitic
climbing presents some evidence in favour of a treatment as words. Example
(77) shows that the norm for agreement with aﬃxes is that it be manifested in
all locations where agreement is possible.
(77) Las chicas me parecen muy inteligentes
DET.FPL girls.FPL CL3SG seem-3PL QUANT intelligent.PL
y lindas.
and beautiful.FPL
‘The girls look very intelligent and beautiful to me.’
However, for Standard Spanish clitics in light verb constructions, only one loca-
tion is possible. They can appear either left, adjoined to the ﬁnite verb (78a), or
attached to the non-ﬁnite verb (78b). Double location as in (78c) is grammati-
cally impossible.23
(78) a. Lo quiero ver.
CL3MSG/CL3NSG want-1SG see-INF
‘I want to see him/it.’
b. Quiero verlo.
c. *Lo quiero verlo.
23 Andrews and Manning (1999) struggled with this phenomenon but it could be explained
based on Economy of Expression if we suppose that a single manifestation of the clitic in a
complex predicate is suﬃcient to satisfy Morphological Blocking with the existence of a syntactic
node over each clitic, incurring a *STRUC penalty to prevent multiple expressions. Morphological
Blocking must then apply to a domain somewhat larger than a conventional morphological word.
A Lexical-Functional Grammar view of clitic doubling 81
I assume then that Spanish clitics are single lexical words, because they appear
as such on terminal nodes on phrase structure trees and can be assigned a
constituent structure position, as shown in Figure 3.1 showing the mapping of
the monotransitive clitic doubled clause in (79) from constituent structure
to functional structure. For the position of the clitics on constituent structure
I follow Grimshaw (2001) and Dalrymple (2001). The dotted line from ‘I’
shows subject agreement in the verbal inﬂection; the lines from ‘CL’ and the
co-occurring noun phrase unify in the object function.
(79) Ayer le / lo vio a Juan.
Yesterday CL3SG / CL3MSG/CL3NSG see-PAST-3SG DOM Juan
‘Yesterday (s)he saw him, Juan.’
a-structure: see < agent, theme>
Figure 3.1: constituent structure → functional structure
The morphosyntactic representation on constituent structure shows the struc-
tural similarity of direct object clitic doubling and indirect object clitic doubling
constructions, which both types of object are treated as prepositional phrases
in constituent structure. The syncretic case/diﬀerential object marker is present
with the dative and the accusative animate object. Note that the analysis presented
here applies to Standard Spanish, leísmo for masculine human arguments (Madrid
norm) and liberal clitic doubling dialects such as River Plate and Lima Spanish
for example.
82 Objects, case and clitic doubling
All visible structural elements on constituent-structure of (79) including
non-projecting elements, such as clitics, are marked in the comprehensive Lexicon
in (80). This rich inventory supplies functional structures with the relevant
syntactic and semantic information. The lexical speciﬁcations for the clitic lo
shows the agreement features person, number and gender, and for the clitic le
person, number and the animacy feature human instead of case. In the varieties
mentioned above, leísmo is treated as an extension of the dative morphology
into direct object marking as mentiond in the introduction in section 1.3. As
object agreement markers, co-occurring with the referential object, they have
no PRED feature – semantic form. The PRED feature for the verb contains
its subcategorization frame and shows the lexical speciﬁcation for tense. The
notation ↑ (up arrow) refers to the immediately dominating node.
(80) Lexicon
ayer ADJ (↑PRED) = ‘yesterday’
le CL (↑PERS) = 3
(↑NUM) = SG
(↑ANIM) = HUM
lo CL (↑PERS) = 3
(↑NUM) = SG
(↑GEND) = MASC
vio I (↑PRED) = ‘see < (↑SUBJ) (↑OBJ) >’
(↑TENSE) = PAST
a PREP (↑CASE) = DAT/ACC
Juan N (↑PRED) = ‘Juan’
(↑PERS) = 3
(↑NUM) = SG
(↑GEND) = MASC
(↑ANIM) = +
Each PRED feature has a unique value, and values cannot unify. Clitics co-
occurring with their referential noun phrase do not bear a semantic role (theta-
role), and therefore they do not show a PRED value in their lexical entries.
Hence the Uniqueness Condition is obeyed: ‘Every attribute has a unique value’
(Bresnan 2001c: 47).
Ambiguity of the syntactic function is expressed in the dative/accusative
case value. Co-occurrence is possible given that the features of the clitics and
the co-occurring object do not clash.
A Lexical-Functional Grammar view of clitic doubling 83
The correlation between semantic form and grammatical relation must be
visible in functional structure thus ensuring the Principle of Completeness and
Coherence stated in (81) (Bresnan 2001c: 63).
(81) Completeness requires that every function designated by a PRED be
present in the f-structure of the PRED.
Coherence requires that every argument function in an f-structure be
designated by a PRED.
The functional information clitics express on functional structure may involve
‘redundant’ information and, consequently, may be optional. This means that
they are subject to the Economy Principle (82) as stated in Bresnan (2001c: 91).
(82) All syntactic phrase structure nodes are optional and are not used
unless required by independent principles (completeness, coherence,
semantic expressivity).
In Dalrymple (2001: 85) this principle is treated as Economy of Expression (83)
describing the relationship between Economy and Lexical Integrity:
(83) . . . a principle that requires the choice of the simplest and smallest phrase
structure tree that allows for the satisfaction of f-structural constraints as
well as expressing the intended meaning.
The structure representation in Figure 3.2. is a simpliﬁed phrase structure tree
with the arrows showing the mapping of the argument to the respective gram-
matical function. It shows the principle from (84) in the clitic doubling version
in (84a) with clitics in grammatical agreement, and in complementary distribu-
tion in (84b) with clitics in anaphoric agreement.
(84) a. Ayer le / lo vio (a Juan).
Yesterday CL3SG / CL3MSG see-PAST-3SG DOM Juan
‘Yesterday (s)he saw him / Juan.’
b. Ayer le / lo vio.
yesterday CL3SG / CL3MSG/CL3NSG see-PAST-3SG
‘Yesterday (s)he saw him / it.’
Note in (84b) the semantic ambiguity of the anaphoric accusative clitic lo, which
can be interpreted as animate or inanimate.
84 Objects, case and clitic doubling
Unlike clitics in grammatical agreement, anaphoric clitics are full objects
and show the semantic value (PRED) pronoun (PRO) in the Lexicon (85) and in
the functional structures in Figure 3.2.
(85) Lexicon
ayer ADJ (↑PRED) = ‘yesterday’
le CL (↑PRED) = PRO
(↑PERS) = 3
(↑NUM) = SG
(↑CASE) = DAT
lo CL (↑PRED) = PRO
(↑PERS) = 3
(↑NUM) = SG
(↑GEND) = MASC
vio I (↑PRED) = ‘see < (↑SUBJ) (↑OBJ) >’
(↑TENSE) = PAST
Figure 3.2: constituent structure → functional structure
The structures show that clitics in their double function are at diﬀerent stages of
evolution. While theta-role bearing anaphoric agreement clitics still retain their
semantic status as a pronominal, co-occurring grammatical agreement markers
show signs of a reanalysis process, as previously mentioned by Bresnan (2001c),
Dalrymple (2001) and others. They are on the way to becoming mere object or
transitivity markers. This grammaticalization process is very important for the
analysis of invariant lo.
A Lexical-Functional Grammar view of clitic doubling 85
In the next section of this chapter I concentrate on the representation of
clitics at c-structure and their mapping to f-structure and distinction between
core and non-core argument functions.
3.4.2 Grammatical functions
The organization and classiﬁcation of grammatical functions in Lexical-Functional
Grammar are visualised here in Table 3.2. The distinction between argument
functions and discourse functions is very important. Pragmatics, discourse, and
information structure in general, are all organised under discourse functions.
Argument functions are divided into core and non-core, or terms and nonterms
(Dalrymple 2001). Governable argument functions can further be subdivided
into semantically unrestricted functions (subject and object) and semantically
restricted functions (objectθ and obliqueθ). Theta (θ) or thematic/semantic roles
are expressed on argument structure.
Table 3.2: Grammatical functions (Dalrymple 2009: 5)24
Non-argument
TOPIC
FOCUS
Discourse function
Argument
(governable)
Core
SUBJ
OBJ
OBJθ
Non-discourse function
Non-core
OBLθ
COMP
Non-argument ADJ(unct)
I focus here particularly on direct vs. oblique arguments. The distinction between
core and non-core argument functions based on Spanish direct and oblique
functions is shown in (86). In Standard Spanish, only direct functions (Alsina
1996b: 150), namely argumental datives and speciﬁc/topical direct objects, can
be casemarked, and clitic doubling is largely restricted to those. True indirect
objects (semantically unrestricted objects) can also appear in double object con-
structions, as demonstrated in (86a). These indirect objects are introduced by
the casemarker a which is distinct from the preposition a, as we have seen
previously in examples (62) and (63c). In some indirect object constructions,
24 Originally from Börjars and Vincent (2004).
86 Objects, case and clitic doubling
the casemarker can be replaced by a preposition producing an oblique phrase
(86b), which is unavailable for clitic doubling.25
(86) a. Le pagó el colegio (al niño).
CL3SG pay-PAST-3SG DET school (DAT-DET.MSG boy.MSG)
‘(S)he paid the boy’s school fees.’
b. (*Le) Pagó el colegio por el niño.
CL3SG pay-PAST-3SG DET school PREP DET boy
‘(S)he paid the school fees for the boy.’
The dative casemarker a in (86a) does not have semantic content, whereas the
preposition in (86b) does. There is no obvious morphological diﬀerence on
constituent structure – both are prepositional phrases26 – but their respective
syntactic functions on functional structure is diﬀerent.
Consider the ditransitive construction in (87) which involves an oblique
reﬂexive in (87a) and a direct object in (87b). Clitic doubling only obtains for
the reﬂexive oblique (87a).
(87) a. Me compro un chocolate (para mí).
REFL1SG buy-1SG INDEF chocolate PREP PRO1SG
‘I buy myself a chocolate.’
b. Me lo compro.
REFL.1SG CL3MSG buy-1SG
‘I buy it for myself.’
In the sentence in (88) involving two diﬀerent third person arguments, an oblique
beneﬁciary and a direct object in (88a) the oblique cannot be doubled by a clitic
(88b), but both arguments can be expressed by anaphoric clitics in a clitic cluster
as shown in (88c).
(88) a. Pablo compra un chocolate para Clara.
Pablo buy-3SG INDEF chocolate PREP Clara
‘Pablo buys a chocolate for Clara.’
b. Pablo (*le) compra un chocolate para Clara.
Pablo CL3SG buy-3SG INDEF chocolate PREP Clara
‘Pablo buys a chocolate for Clara.’
c. Pablo se lo compra.
Pablo SE CL3MSG buy-3SG
‘Pablo buys it for her/himself.’
25 This condition also applies to Greek (Anagnostopoulou 1999).
26 See Suñer (1988) for an analysis of indirect objects as noun phrases.
A Lexical-Functional Grammar view of clitic doubling 87
Spurious se is a portmanteau morpheme and as such allows for the example
(88c) to be ambiguous. Se can have a reﬂexive meaning as in Pablo buys it for
himself, or refer to Clara as the indirect object when introduced by the dative
casemarker a.
Clitics in monotransitive constructions come in two forms, regular and
leísmo, the former using lo as direct object clitic, the latter using le instead,
predominantly for male humans, as shown in (89).27 Structures of this type are
ambiguous regarding grammatical function but share the same morphosyntactic
representation on constituent structure. The representations on constituent struc-
ture and functional structure for (89) are as given in Figure 3.2.
(89) Ayer le / lo vio (a Juan).
yesterday CL3SG / CL3MSG/CL3NSG see-PAST-3SG DOM Juan
‘Yesterday (s)he saw him/Juan.’
The facts applying at least to Standard Spanish dialects are as follows: clitic
doubling is restricted to direct functions that are casemarked noun phrases,
and to ditransitives, involving an oblique reﬂexive (87b); obliques involving
two distinct persons, as in (86b) and (88b), are excluded.28 These examples
warrant separation into grammatical agreement in clitic doubling constructions
(86a), (87a) and (89) as opposed to anaphoric agreement in (87b) and (88c).
Example (89) highlights an important fact about clitic doubling surface
(constituent) structures: they are identical for both direct functions, and show
the same syntactic-pragmatic strategy of marking a highly salient, topical object.
The visible feature diﬀerences in the clitics point towards a speciﬁc meaning
and function represented in functional structure only. Optionality of syntactic
nodes relates to a certain form of Economy dependent on Principles of Complete-
ness, Coherence, and Semantic Expressivity (Bresnan 2001c). This section has
highlighted the representation of clitics at constituent structure and mapping to
functional structure. In the last section of this chapter, I now move on to discuss
the optional constraint for the direct object clitic as an agreement marker or
pronoun, and argument functions.
27 The lexical object can only co-occur with the clitic in liberal clitic doubling dialects such as
River Plate and Limeño Spanish where leísmo extends to pets, and in non-standardized dialects
to inanimates, resulting in extensive leísmo in Ecuador. Recall the discussion of leísmo and
related phenomena in chapter one.
28 Dislocated and non a-marked clitic doubling constructions are treated in chapter four (word
order and information structure) and also chapter ﬁve.
88 Objects, case and clitic doubling
3.4.3 Optional PRED PRO
In the previous sections I have shown that Spanish clitics in clitic doubling
constructions show a division into grammatical (weak) and anaphoric (strong)
agreement. This phenomenon is based on a cross-linguistically widely attested
tripartite division of properties of personal pronouns into pronouns, topicality
markers and agreement makers (PRO TOP AGR) (Bresnan 2001a: 115)29 with their
corresponding semantic, information-structural and morphosyntactic functions
as follows.
PRO here is deﬁned as sharing the universal semantic properties of shifting
reference and anaphoricity with all personal pronouns.
TOP specializes in referring to topical elements as, for example, in direct
object clitic doubling, an information-structural property of fundamental impor-
tance to the analysis of the variability found in Limeño Spanish contact varieties
and to invariant lo.30
AGR is a morphosyntactic property which contains the features person,
number and gender described in Figure 3.3.
In Lexical-Functional Grammar, the uniqueness condition allows only one
value for each attribute on functional structure (Bresnan 2001c: 47). This does
not pose any problem for the dative clitic in indirect object doubling construc-
tions as its sole function is as an agreement marker. The double function of the
accusative clitic, however, as introduced in the previous section, optionally
allows for either functional control (grammatical agreement) or anaphoric control
(e.g. allowing for a pronominal subject on f-structure). So, the immediate question
arises which one of the two is the object argument (i.e. bears the theta-role), the
clitic or the overt object, or even both. Here an optional constraint is needed to
allow for this alternative function as an agreement marker or as a pronoun.
Andrews (1990) proposed the introduction of an optional PRED PRO feature
speciﬁcation for strong agreement in Spanish.31 This proposal is challenging for
the following reasons.
29 The analysis for the properties TOP and AGR is based on a considerable corpus of work by
Givón (1984: 354–355) for AGR, and Givón (1990: 916ﬀ) for PRO.
30 It also raises the question whether the direct object clitic marks a grammatical function (GF)
or a discourse function (DF), or even both. Grammaticalization of clitics will be treated in chapter
four and the correlation between f-structure (GF) and information structure (DF) in chapters ﬁve
and six.
31 Mayer (2006) based the treatment of optional direct object clitic doubling in Limeño Spanish
and River Plate on an optional PRED PRO feature speciﬁcation.
A Lexical-Functional Grammar view of clitic doubling 89
1. There seems to be little or no correlation between pronoun-drop and agree-
ment.32
2. PRED PRO is supplied by anaphoric control rather than by the lexical
entries. Morphological Blocking forces the ‘right’ clitic to appear.
3. PRED PRO appears subject mostly to conditions based on grammatical func-
tions of subject, object and indirect object rather than being an arbitrary fact
about certain clitic forms.
Because of these issues, I treat Spanish as a pro-drop language where pro-drop
extends to subject, object and indirect object. In Standard Spanish indirect
object clitics (IOCL) and direct object clitics (DOCL) need the feature speciﬁca-
tions shown in Figure 3.3.
Figure 3.3: Clitic morphosyntactic features
Direct object clitic doubling is constrained to pronominal direct object arguments
as shown in the constraining equation (PRED=cPRO). The constrained equality
relation =c deﬁnes a restriction to satisﬁy the f-structure requirements. In this
case, for the pronoun to appear on f-structure in anaphoric control in liberal clitic
doubling, the pronoun must show the features speciﬁed in Figure 3.3. This means
that liberal clitic doubling is restricted to feature-specifying clitics showing
concord with the doubled argument as shown in (89). The diﬀerence between a
deﬁning and a constraining equation is that the deﬁning equation adds a feature
to f-structure, while the constraining equation says that it must be there some-
where, supplied by some other element.
In the direct object example (89a), optional clitic doubling would obtain in
River Plate and Lima Spanish. The pronominal object in (89b) is supplied by
anaphoric control and Morphological Blocking forces the clitic to appear also
taking care of the strong speciﬁcity requirement for all liberal direct object clitic
doubling dialects as in (89a). The speciﬁcity requirement states that direct object
clitic doubling in liberal clitic doubling dialects only obtains with feature-
specifying/agreeing clitics and the presence of the diﬀerential marker a.
32 See Deal (2005) for an extensive discussion of the weak relation between pronoun-drop and
agreement.
90 Objects, case and clitic doubling
(89) a. Pedro (lo) vio a José.
Peter (CL3MSG) see-PAST-3SG DOM José
‘Pedro saw José.’
b. Pedro lo vio.
Peter CL3MSG see-PAST-3SG
‘Peter saw him.’
Optionality is to be understood as marking at least two diﬀerent kinds of objects
correlating with the semantic properties of the object noun phrase (animacy and
deﬁniteness), with lexical semantics and information packaging. In cases with
referentially agreeing clitics, as in (89), uniﬁcation is possible and the Principle
of Functional Uniqueness obeyed.
In contact dialects more features disappear, but clitics are still covered by
Morphological Blocking in selecting the most speciﬁc and compatible clitic for
the pragmatically motivated clitic doubling construction in (90), where the
neuter clitic lo has been selected as the best candidate to double the inanimate
object despite the lack of feature uniﬁcation. I will link these kinds of construc-
tions to information structure in chapter four, part two.
(90) Lo frío a la cebolla.
CL3NSG fry-1SG DOM DET.FSG onion.FSG
‘I fry the onion.’
In the contact example with non-agreeing clitics, the PRED =cPRO equation for
liberal clitic doubling dialects (River Plate and Lima Spanish), as well as the
blocking eﬀect or featural speciﬁcation that would require the feminine la in
Standard Spanish do not apply any longer. However, as shown in Andrews
(1990: 532) for Munster Irish third person plural, there is a problem with option-
ality of PRED PRO which will need to be extended to include optionality of the
lexical entry – a case of double optionality. Object clitics in other Romance
languages such as Italian and French introduce PRED PRO obligatorily, as do
Chicheŵa object markers as analyzed in Bresnan and Mchombo (1987). The
blocking principle works on condition that the clitics are part of the verbal mor-
phology and specify simple grammatical features like person, number, gender
and case.33 Synthetic (simpler, more reduced) forms are preferred to analytical
forms prvovided that they are available in the same paradigm. This can also
33 See Grimshaw (1982a) for French.
A Lexical-Functional Grammar view of clitic doubling 91
represent a form of Economy and applies to invariant lo as the least marked and
thus the default clitic.
3.5 Summary
Clitic doubling in Spanish has been found to mark the two core grammatical
functions indirect object and direct object – twofold. Firstly, dependent-marking
identiﬁes the grammatical function through a syncretic case/object marker a
that introduces the pragmatic notion of speciﬁcity/topicality. The co-occurrence
of a-marking and clitic doubling can be linked to Kayne’s Generalization which
holds speciﬁcally in standard dialects. Secondly, head-marking agreement mor-
phology optionally crossreferences the object on the verb with a feature-speciﬁc
set of clitics.
The evidence of examples (87b) and (88c) strongly suggests that the Person-
Case constraint could be interpreted as constraining co-occurring agreement
markers to direct functions (internal arguments34 or non-oblique functions) only,
probably based more strongly on person (animacy, referentiality/identiﬁability)
rather than on case. An analysis of this kind allows for speciﬁcity eﬀects, topi-
cality marking, and for syntactic marking of the primary object and secondary
topic in monotransitives which will be discussed in the next chapter.
In the contact varieties under study, synchronic variation of canonical and
non-canonical object marking, morphological case marking of both objects, and
covariation of invariant lo and le (as part of extended leísmo or in bilingual
Spanish) produce conﬂictive analyzes regarding the syntactic distinction of
objects.
34 Cf. chapter four, section six for an extensive discussion of the term within Lexical Mapping.
92 Objects, case and clitic doubling
Chapter 4
From syntax to information structure
This chapter illustrates the division of labour between head marking (by clitics)
and dependent marking (by diﬀerential object marking) and its eﬀect on infor-
mation structure. It is divided into two parts.
Part one deals with the diachronic development of diﬀerential object marking
and two-dimensional diﬀerential object marking from a cross-linguistic perspec-
tive with reference to typology.1 I propose a three-stage model to show how the
interaction of semantic and pragmatic strategies alongside the parallel evolution
of diﬀerential object marking and concurrent grammaticalization processes
aﬀecting clitics leads to linguistic change in Spanish object marking.
In part two, I link syntactic object marking to information structure based
on a new diﬀerential object marking theory developed by Nikolaeva (2001) and
Dalrymple and Nikolaeva (2011). I also propose an important distinction between
clitics as topicality marker in liberal clitic doubling dialects and as secondary
topic marker in mainly oral-based Limeño Spanish contact varieties.
Part 1: Diﬀerential object marking
4.1 The concept of diﬀerential object marking
Diﬀerential object marking (DOM) is used in many languages to code gram-
matical relations through overt morphological marking of certain noun phrases.
Generally, in diﬀerential object marking languages, objects are either marked or
unmarked, allowing for optional marking of inanimate objects. Although both
marked and unmarked objects may share the same grammatical function, some
languages distinguish syntactically between marked objects as primary objects
and unmarked objects as secondary objects depending on their topicality (Dryer
1986). Another important fact is that crosslinguistically the dative casemarker is
also the preferred diﬀerential object marker for these languages.2
Previous approaches to Spanish diﬀerential object marking investigated the
prepositional accusative3 in terms of object marking (Fernández Ordóñez 1993,
DOI 10.1515/9781614514213-004
1 The principal typological studies used are Bossong (1991) and Aissen (2003).
2 The list of languages preferring dative includes Hindi, Guaraní and Aymara, and excludes
Turkish and Romanian among others (Bossong 1985, 1991).
3 I refer the reader to the animacy discussion in chapter three for the multiple roles of the
formative a.
1999; Torrego 1999), speciﬁcity for standard dialects (Brugè and Brugger 1996;
Laca 2002, 2006; von Heusinger 2002, 2007), and extending to topicality in
liberal clitic doubling dialects (Leonetti 2004, 2008). In a pilot study based on
written data from Standard Argentinian, Mexican and Peruvian Spanish, von
Heusinger and Kaiser (2005) looked at the parameters animacy, deﬁniteness
and speciﬁcity, and also the notion of topicality, involved in the extension of
diﬀerential object marking to indeﬁnite speciﬁcs. All researchers concur that
diﬀerential object marking depends on all these factors but that topicality
played a separate role.
On the one hand, the observed connection between topicality and deﬁnite-
ness was crucial in the creation and spread of diﬀerential object marking from
Old Spanish to Modern Spanish, while on the other hand, its spread into the
realm of animate and inanimate indeﬁnite non-speciﬁc direct object noun
phrases/determiner phrases in Latin American Spanish is due to the interaction
of the pragmatic category speciﬁcity. My own corpus reﬂects this spread of
variation and extension of diﬀerential object marking and object marking as
well. However, in von Heusinger and Kaiser’s (2005) a further data spread to
deﬁnite, speciﬁc, inanimate objects did not materialise. The reason for the diﬀer-
ing results lies in the diﬀerence between the corpora: standard Spanish written
texts in von Heusinger and Kaiser, and non-standard(ized)4 oral contact varieties
in my monolingual/bilingual ﬁeldwork data.
Further searches in an historical corpus show the steady increase of diﬀeren-
tial object marking in Spanish (von Heusinger and Kaiser 2007; von Heusinger
and Onea 2008) extending the analysis to include verb class diﬀerences. Their
interpretation links diﬀerential object marking in Spanish to a complex picture
of at least two interacting factors: (i) the nominal properties of the direct object
argument, and (ii) the verbal semantics of the governing predicate.
Company (1998, 2000, 2001, 2003) documents the reanalysis of the locative
preposition a in Mexican Spanish, from a casemarker of “cannibalistic”5 datives,
to the spread of diﬀerential object marking to inanimate, deﬁnite objects, in-
dicative of a struggle between dative and accusative for primary object status.
Following this analysis, diﬀerential object marking of human, animate objects
is only a transition stage leading to extensive dative marking via its extension
to inanimate objects. This analysis supports the [DAT±] hypothesis by Alsina
(1996b) discussed in chapter three.
4 I use the term non-standarized here to point to the naturalistic language acquisition settings
and lack of access to and quality of formal education.
5 As treated in Company (1998, 2001, 2003) where cannibalistic refers to the incursion of the
dative into the accusative referring to leísmo strategies.
94 From syntax to information structure
For Spanish, we established in chapter three that both strategies – diﬀeren-
tial object marking and clitic doubling – while they interact in a complex way,
can also occur independently of each other. While Kayne’s Generalization holds
for standard Peninsular and Latin American Spanish dialects, lack of diﬀerential
object marking in clitic doubling constructions in non-standard varieties points
to the interaction of grammatical function and discourse function as a cause.
Speaker choice of strategy seems to depend on the information structure of
the object, where co-occurrence is constrained to topical objects and denied for
focal objects.6
The discussion of diﬀerential object marking and extended object marking
in this chapter builds on the exposition of the features animacy, deﬁniteness
and speciﬁcity in chapter three. The discussion in this chapter concentrates on
the two-dimensional form and crosslinguistic expression of diﬀerential object
marking, which give rise to an extended form. I also dicuss diachronic processes
promoting topicality based on examples from Spanish and other languages. This
is followed by a discussion of grammaticalization processes bearing on clitics.
My aim is to place the evolution in Limeño Spanish contact varieties in a
crosslinguistic context and to link the innovations to a wider crosslinguistic
trend.
4.2 Two-dimensional diﬀerential object marking
Diﬀerential object marking is a crosslinguistically well attested system to optionally
mark direct objects ranked for their prominence on two scales: animacy and
deﬁniteness, or, on a two-dimensional scale based on the interaction of both
(Bossong 1991, 2003; Aissen 2003).7 What triggers diﬀerential object marking is
language-speciﬁc, and most importantly, subject to diachronic evolution. For
example, Hebrew distinguishes between deﬁnite and indeﬁnite and Hungarian
between human and animate features. Papia Kristang, a Portuguese based Creole
(Bossong 2003), is sensitive to deﬁniteness and “humanness”8. Human, deﬁnite
objects (91a) are obligatorily marked, human, indeﬁnite objects (91b) are optional,
and nonhuman, indeﬁnite objects (91c) remain unmarked.
6 See the deﬁnition of speciﬁcity in chapter 3 section 2.4.
7 See chapter 3 section 2.4 for these scales and the basic machinery of Spanish diﬀerential
object marking.
8 Bossong replaces animacy with the term “humanitude” as introduced by Lazard (2003).
Two-dimensional diﬀerential object marking 95
(91) Papia Kristang (Bossong 2003: 26)
a. Yo sa kanyóng gostá kung aké femi.
I GEN elder.brother love ACC DEM woman
‘My elder brother loves that woman.’
b. Eli ja kazá kung-Ø femi malayu.
he PERF marry ACC-ACC woman Malay
‘He has married a Malay woman.’
c. Veronica sa pay matá Ø-buchi.
Veronica GEN father kill ACC-bug
‘Veronica’s father has killed a bug.’
Turkish distinguishes between speciﬁc objects (92a) which are always case-
marked, and unmarked nonspeciﬁc objects (92b).
(92) Turkish (Enc 1991: 4–5)
a. Ali bir piyano-yu kiralamak istiyor.
Ali one piano-ACC rent-INF want-3SG
‘Ali wants to rent a certain piano.’
b. Ali bir piyano kiralamak istiyor.
Ali one piano rent-INF want-3SG
‘Ali wants to rent a (nonspeciﬁc) piano.’
Enç (1991: 24) distinguishes between deﬁniteness and speciﬁcity in the way
these properties link arguments within the discourse. She classiﬁes deﬁniteness
as a strong link to a previously established or identiﬁed referent, as for example
in (91a). Speciﬁcity, on the other hand, is a weak link referring to “a subset of or
standing on some recoverable relation to a familiar object.”
Persian (Lazard 2003), Hindi/Urdu, Romanian, River Plate and Lima Spanish
among many other languages change this scale to animacy and speciﬁcity,
marking the topical direct object argument and allowing for optional marking
of inanimate, speciﬁc objects. This is ﬁrstly demonstrated in (93) where the
Persian postposition râ marks objects that are deﬁnite (93a) and speciﬁc (83b).
Note that demonstratives and possessives count as deﬁnites and must be marked.
Indeﬁnite non-speciﬁcs are unmarked (93c) and (93d).
(93) Persian (Lazard 2003: 2)
a. Ketâb-râ / ân ketâb-râ xând-am.
book-DOM / DEM book-DOM read-PAST-1SG
‘I read the book / that book.’
96 From syntax to information structure
b. Ketâb-i-râ xândam ke.
book-DET-DOM read-PAST-1SG that. . .
‘I read a (certain) book which [. . .].’
c. Ketâb-i xândam.
book-DET read-PAST-1SG
‘I read a book.’
d. Ketâb xândam.
book read-PAST-1SG
‘I read a book/books/I did book-reading.’
The diﬀerential object markers Hindi ko and Spanish a share a common locative
origin as well as similar diachronic and synchronic behaviour. They are both
syncretic forms marking dative and optionally speciﬁc direct objects with certain
combinations of animacy and speciﬁcity properties. Two-dimensional diﬀeren-
tial object marking along animacy and speciﬁcity axes, or object alternation, is
demonstrated in (94). In the nominative marked version (94a), Nadya simply
wants to see any giraﬀe. In (94b), the ko-marked giraﬀe must be a particular
animal Nadya has in mind.
(94) Urdu9 (Butt 2005: 143)
a. Nadya=ne jirafa dekh-na he.
Nadya-FSG=ERG giraﬀe-MSG.NOM see-INFMSG be-PRES-3SG
‘Nadya wants to see a giraﬀe/giraﬀes.’
b. Nadya=ne jiraf=ko dekh-na he.
Nadya-FSG=ERG giraﬀe-MSG=ACC see-INFMSG be-PRES-3SG
‘Nadya wants to see the giraﬀe.’
Romanian uses the direct object marker pe10 to show the same distinction (95).
Note that Romanian, like Spanish, prefers a combination of diﬀerential object
marking and clitic doubling to mark deﬁnite, speciﬁc and topical human direct
objects (95a). Note the non-doubled clause in (95b) allows for either a speciﬁc or
for a non-speciﬁc reading.
9 I retain here the original glosses.
10 Pe is like the Spanish formative a regarding isomorphism of the locative preposition pe ‘on’
showing semantic content and as object marker lacking prepositional/semantic content (von
Heusinger and Onea 2008: 68).
Two-dimensional diﬀerential object marking 97
(95) Romanian (von Heusinger and Onea 2008: 69)
a. O caut pe o secretară.
CL3SG search DOM a secretary-FSG
‘I am searching for a (speciﬁc) secretary.’
b. Caut o secretară.
search a secretary-FSG
‘I am searching for a (speciﬁc) secretary. I am searching for some
secretary.’
Romanian, River Plate and Lima Spanish mark speciﬁc objects, which can be
proper names, deﬁnite and indeﬁnite noun phrases, which thereby receive a
topical reading which triggers clitic doubling. In the Lima Spanish example in
(96) diﬀerential object marking and clitic doubling extends to proper names
(96a) and to deﬁnite, speciﬁc determiner phrases in (96b). The extension to
animate, indeﬁnite quantiﬁers in (96c) cannot be analyzed as speciﬁc but cer-
tainly must be some kind of topic.
(96) Standard Lima Spanish (Mayer, FW 2003)
a. La nombraron a Mara.
CL3FSG nominate-PAST-3PL DOM Mara
‘They nominated Mara.’
b. A esta silla la quiero poner en otro sitio.
DOM DEM chair CL3FSG want-1SG put-INF PREP other place
‘I want to put this chair somewhere else.’
c. No lo vieron a nadie en esta playa.
not CL3MSG see-PAST-3PL DOM QUANT PREP DEM beach
‘They did not see anybody on this beach.’
The previous examples have shown the transition from stage one (Papia Kristang)
to the extension of diﬀerential object marking to inanimate objects facilitated
by the pragmatic notion speciﬁcity (Turkish), to marking animate, deﬁnite and
speciﬁc objects as topical (Persian, Urdu, Romanian, River Plate, and Lima
Spanish).
Commonly, the prototypical single object of a transitive clause is an un-
marked patient/theme object. Marking such an object singles out an object
that is like the subject in its animacy, deﬁniteness and speciﬁcity/referentiality
features. Extending diﬀerential object casemarking and diﬀerential object agree-
ment (clitic doubling) to atypical direct objects creates a markedness reversal
98 From syntax to information structure
reﬂecting the tensions between two important functional principles: (i) economy
directed at avoiding excessive marking, and (ii) iconicity related to functional
and formal object marking (Aissen 2003; Comrie 1997, 2003; Dalrymple and
Nikolaeva 2011; Givón 1976; Silverstein 1976). However, in examples (91) to (96),
and also in Ibizan Catalan, the crucial diﬀerence is the involvement of both
central actants (Bossong 2003), namely the external argument subject actively
marking the internal core argument object in the sense of “Nadya has a particular
giraﬀe in mind” (94b), for example. Identiﬁability and double actant marking
are two very important factors for information structure because they mark
topic-worthiness of an argument. At the syntactic level, double actant marking
in monotransitive clauses marks the primary object, which is the secondary
topic at the level of information structure, as will be discussed in part II.
Building on previous work and based on the analysis from my data, I identify
the following three diﬀerent stages in the evolution of diﬀerential object marking
(DOM) in line one, and direct object clitic doubling (CLD), shown in Table 4.1.
The second line of the diﬀerential object marker (DOM) row shows the prag-
matic/information-structural eﬀect of the parallel evolution and interaction
of dependent-marking (diﬀerential object marking) and head-marking (direct
object clitic doubling).
Table 4.1: Evolution of diﬀerential object marking and clitic doubling
Stage I II a III b
DOM ANIM/DEF SPEC/TOP TOP/OM
TOP → TOP2/±DAT-PO/SO
CLD AgrPRO AgrPRO lo > le > la → le( > lo)
Stage I and II reﬂect the development of standard Spanish in its oral and written
form. Standard Spanish is representative of stage I. Liberal clitic doubling varieties,
such as Standard Lima Spanish and Riverplate (Argentinian and Uruguayan) are
located at stage II. Stage III is divided into two parts, showing the extension of
the grammaticalization aﬀecting diﬀerential object marking and clitic doubling.
This stage represents non-standardized (attrited contact) dialects in III (a), such
as Limeño Spanish contact varieties11, and in III (b) contact dialects, such as
Ecuador and Paraguay, showing extensive leísmo. In these non-standardized
contact varieties, we note in monolingual (attrited) speakers a scalar system of
lo > le > la in Limeño Spanish contact varieties and extensive leísmo as in
11 Non-standardized River Plate Spanish apparently also shows the same variability, in that
case however, it is not contact-induced, but conditioned by extra-linguistic factors.
Two-dimensional diﬀerential object marking 99
le (>lo) in bilingual speakers in contact with non-gender marking languages
such as Quechua for example (Mayer and Sánchez 2016). Note that stage III
(a) may be either a transient or a fossilized stage, depending on intensity of
language contact and language ecological factors as discussed in chapter one.
Throughout the three stages, diﬀerential object marking shows a steady
move from full semantic nominal parameters in stage I, to a mix of semantic
and pragmatic parameters in stage II, to ﬁnally becoming an objective marker
in stage III. This indicates a move from nominal marking to verbal marking, or
from dative-accusative marking mainly based on semantic parameters to primary
and secondary object marking linked to information structure.
This development is accompanied by a parallel evolution of feature-specifying
clitics which are strictly controlled by the semantic parameters animacy and
deﬁniteness, identifying and marking topical objects in stage I. Based on these
semantic restrictions, clitic doubling is constrained to pronominal objects. In
stage II, clitic doubling becomes more liberal through the growing importance
of the pragmatic parameter speciﬁcity, which plays a mediating role in the
transition from purely semantic-based marking to pragmatic-based marking.
Stage III is restricted ﬁrst to two geographically diﬀerent points in the diachronic
evolution of Latin American Spanish. III (a) is a transition stage showing a
scalar system of singular dative and accusative clitics, with a strong preference
for the accusative in Limeño Spanish contact varieties, marking the secondary
topic (TOP2) and primary object in a transitive clause. This implies concurrent
grammatical and information structural marking. Finally, in III (b), with third
person clitics grammaticalizing from agreement marker to object marker, dif-
ferential object marking gives way to a single case system which allows free
doubling under extensive leísmo conditions with lo surviving as propostional
anaphor.
The three categories involved in object marking – diﬀerential object marking,
topicality and speciﬁcity – show a binary distinction into plus or minus. Only
one of them, the diﬀerential object marker a, has a clear morphological presence.
Topicality represents animacy for purposes of personal a and disambiguation in
marking the patient object, as mentioned earlier. Animacy in Spanish is an
inherent nominal characteristic for animates only; diﬀerential object marking
can raise the animacy status of inanimates making them topical. Speciﬁcity
arises from certain combinations of the two categories deﬁniteness and clitic
doubling. The notion of topicality belongs to information structure, its involve-
ment in the marking process appears in the earliest stage and remains through-
out, as shown in Table 4.1.
In the next subsection, I brieﬂy review the formation of diﬀerential object
marking and topicality in Spanish and continue the description of the stages II
100 From syntax to information structure
and III of the model proposed in Table 4.1 in the light of the interacting factors
optionality, speciﬁcity and topicality.
4.3 Diﬀerential object marking, topicality and clitic doubling
As previously discussed and shown in Table 4.1 and supported by an extensive
body of literature on the emergence of diﬀerential object marking in Romance
languages, three diﬀerent but interacting factors have been identiﬁed (Laca 2006
and references therein).
Firstly, as argued by Bossong (1991), diﬀerential object marking emerged from
the need to diﬀerentiate between subjects and object arguments.
Secondly, the separation between dative and accusative marking and exten-
sion of the dative into the accusative has been the topic of much debate based
on evidence from the diachronically attested inherent variability of the third
person pronominal paradigm in terms of leísmo, loísmo and laísmo (Fernández
Ordóñez 1993, 1999), and variable argument structure of certain verbs (Laca
2006: 472–428, 470). These facts have led some researchers to argue for a single
plus/minus dative case system (Alsina 1996); to the dative “invading” the space
of the accusative (Company 2001, 2003); to neutralization of dative and accusa-
tive marking (Lapesa 2000: 98–99), or the emergence of a new accusative (Givón
1997; Bossong 2001, 2003).
The third and ﬁnal point is topic marking (Givón 1976) and its extension to
secondary topic marking (Dalrymple and Nikolaeva 2011), acknowledging that
pragmatics and information structure, in addition to semantics, have inﬂuenced
the emergence and formation of diﬀerential object marking. According to Pensado
(1995: 191), diﬀerential object marking in Romance languages originated from the
Latin preposition ad with the stressed personal pronoun mihi to express topicality,
due to a loss of dative case morphology in pronouns. Diﬀerential object marking
then spread by analogy to non-pronominal uses, increasing its general frequency.
Referring back to Table 4.1, stage I, diﬀerential object marking and its inter-
action with clitic doubling made its ﬁrst appearance with strong pronouns and,
substantially, only with strong pronouns in El Cantar de Mio Cid (Laca 2006:
428; Lapesa 1964: 80; Melis 1995). The complex diﬀerential object marking
system of the Spanish of El Cid allows for optional marking based on animacy
and speciﬁcity constraints as summarized in Table 4.2 (Bresnan and Aissen
2002: 91). Notable is the optional extension to inanimate proper nouns, where it
facilitates identiﬁcation of the referent by specifying the relationship between
the subject and the object.
Diﬀerential object marking, topicality and clitic doubling 101
Table 4.2: Diﬀerential object marking system in El Cid
DOM OBJECT TYPE
obligatory human pronouns, proper nouns
optional human deﬁnites, indeﬁnite speciﬁcs, inanimate proper nouns
unmarked the rest
Building on the “individuation – presuppositionality” traits of the marked direct
object, Torrego (1999: 1802) argues ﬁrst that “el complemento directo preposi-
cional aporta topicidad en el interior de la oración” (‘The direct object adds
topicality within the clause’). But then, based on diachronic and synchronic evi-
dence, Torrego proposes that a-marked direct objects seem to be topical, occupy-
ing the position of dislocated elements inside and outside the verb phrase, an
argument already proposed by Pensado (1995). This analysis seems a natural
consequence of the following two facts. The pertinent feature of pronouns is
deﬁniteness, with ﬁrst and second person and even human and pronouns as a
class appearing with high frequency dislocated in either focus or topic (theme)
position. Topicality seems to be motivated by animacy and verbal semantics,
taking the analysis further into the pragmatic ﬁeld.
According to Lapesa (1968) the ﬁrst verbs that attracted a-marking were
primary transitive verbs such as “kill, attack and hit”, aﬀecting the object directly.
Such prototypical transitive clauses consist of a (highly) agentive subject and
a (highly) aﬀected patient object. Consequently, in modern Spanish all verbs
aﬀecting the object directly must be a-marked. This extension of a-marking
has been generally dubbed an extension of the dative into the accusative. For
example Torrego (1999: 1803) cites: “A este respecto Spaulding (1962) observa
que pareciera que unos verbos extienden el uso del caso dativo al acusativo
más que otros” (‘In this respect, Spaulding (1962) observes that it appears that
some verbs extend the use of the dative case to the accusative more than others.’)
Dalrymple and Nikolaeva (2011: 160) and Mohanan (1994) describe apparent
optionality of ko-marking in Hindi/Urdu for deﬁnite inanimate/nonhuman objects
giving rise to marked and unmarked objects. All ko-marked objects must be
speciﬁc (Butt 1993).12 The combination of animacy and double actant marking,
specifying the relationship between the subject and the object, with the subject
as the primary topic marking the object as secondary topic seems to be the
essence of topicality. Givón (1979: 206) argues that the pragmatic value of an
object is to mark the secondary topic in a clause. In languages with syncretic case
12 Butt also notes that dialect variability must be considered.
102 From syntax to information structure
marking the distinction between core object arguments is sometimes obscured in
monotransitives but can be established more easily in ditransitive constructions
where the primary object is the marked one. In Spanish, this is usually the
indirect object. Based on this evidence, I conclude that topicality is a gradient,
ever evolving property that seems to follow the hierarchy subject > object >
oblique, as suggested by Croft (1991).
4.3.1 Optionality
Diﬀerential object marking in Standard Spanish marks genuine human (97a)
and animate patient arguments in (97b), considered topical due to their animacy
status.
(97) a. El ladrón mató a la tía de Mario.
the thief kill-PAST-3SG DOM DET.FSG aunt PREP Mario
‘The thief killed Mario’s aunt.’
b. El ladrón mató al perrito de Mario.
the thief kill-PAST-3SG DOM-DET.MSG dog-DIMIN PREP Mario
‘The thief killed Mario’s little dog.’
In modern Standard Spanish optionality of diﬀerential object marking applies to
animate, indeﬁnite, speciﬁc objects (98a), and, largely, to inanimate deﬁnite,
speciﬁc objects (98b). Animate and inanimate indeﬁnite, non-speciﬁc core object
arguments (98c) and obliques are excluded.
(98) a. Ayer escuchaba (a) una mujer
Yesterday hear-PAST-1SG DOM INDEF.FSG woman.FSG
caminando delante de la casa.
walk-GERUND in front of the house
‘Yesterday I was listening to a woman walking up and down in front
of the house.’
b. (A) esta silla la pongo en otro sitio.
DOM DEM.FSG chair.FSG CL3FSG put-1SG PREP other place
‘I’m putting this chair somewhere else.’
c. Mi hermano necesita *a un nuevo libro.
POSS.1SG brother need-3SG DOM INDEF.MSG new book
‘My brother needs a new book.’
Diﬀerential object marking, topicality and clitic doubling 103
These examples demonstrate that diﬀerential object marking is restricted to
marking object arguments in accordance with their semantic and pragmatic
properties. Obligatory marking could be analyzed as structural case and produces
only one reading, whereas optionality produces at least two diﬀerent kinds of
objects correlating with the semantic properties animacy and deﬁniteness of
the object noun phrase. Further, if we compare the modern state (stage II) to
the medieval state (stage I) represented by data from El Cid in Table 4.2, we
observe a growing tendency along the deﬁniteness hierarchy towards speciﬁcity
to optionally mark topical objects. This conﬁrms that saliency of an object and
its individuation are linked to optional marking.
In stage III, optionality diminishes even more and could simply vanish in
canonical monotransitives, with the conversion of diﬀerential object marking
into a full objective/casemarker. But before moving on to discuss stage III, I
brieﬂy address non-speciﬁcity triggering zero marking.
4.3.2 Non-speciﬁcity
As introduced in chapter three, diﬀerential object marking identiﬁes the gram-
matical function of the marked syntactic arguments, and double actant marking
introduces the pragmatic notions speciﬁcity and topicality whose relationship
was shown in example (71), repeated here in (99), where a relationship is
established between the inanimate speciﬁc object and the animate speciﬁc
subject. Both are core syntactic arguments and identiﬁable from the immediate
context.
(99) Liberal clitic doubling dialects [–anim][+spec] (Suñer 1989: 379)
Lo quiero mucho a este arbolito.
CL3MSG like-1SG much DOM DEM.SG tree-little
‘I like this little tree very much.’
The contrast between object speciﬁcity and non-speciﬁcity is shown in (100).
Diﬀerential object marking is felicitous with the indeﬁnite non-speciﬁc in (100a)
and in the negated version in (100b). Wh-questions for both are obligatorily
a-marked: ¿A quién necesita? ‘Whom does he need?’ ¿Necesita a alguien? ‘Does
(s)he need somebody?’ Alguien is a presupposed entity assumed to exist. In
terms of set theory, alguien is a subset, an identiﬁable part of the superset. The
same is true for nadie.
104 From syntax to information structure
(100) a. El profesor necesita a alguien.
the professor need-3SG DOM someone
‘The professor needs someone.’
b. El profesor no necesita a nadie.
the professor not need-3SG DOM nobody
‘The professor does not need anybody.’
For (101) von Heusinger and Kaiser (2007) argue that the indeﬁnite animate
direct object rejects diﬀerential object marking because of its non-argument status.
Leonetti (1999: 862) makes a distinction between extensional arguments that
receive speciﬁcity through optional diﬀerential object marking, and intensional
arguments13 that generally reject diﬀerential object marking.
(101) Standard Spanish (von Heusinger and Kaiser 2007: 88)
El dentista necesita *a un ayudante.
the dentist need.-3SG DOM INDEF.MSG assistant
‘The dentist needs an assistant.’
Bleam (1999) expresses the diﬀerence in terms of the semantic type <e>, which
can receive diﬀerential object marking, as opposed to the non-argumental type
<e,t> which remains unmarked. Deal (2007) analyzes property-type <e,t> non-
speciﬁc objects with respect to their referentiality and scope in Nez Percé, Inuit
and Hindi. She argues that “verbs are never inherently speciﬁed for property-
type objects; all property-type objects must be mediated by ANTIP” (antipassive
morpheme). She concludes that the diﬀerence between intensional and exten-
sional verbs depends on the type of object named and has nothing to do with
the semantic type. She claims further that intensional verbs “name accessibility
relations for locating objects within situations, whereas extensional verbs char-
acterise particular events” Deal (2007: 2). Replacing the indeﬁnite determiner in
(101) with any concrete number, say two, or with a deﬁnite determiner would
still yield an unmarked noun phrase, as it lacks referentiality. The indeﬁnite
non-speciﬁc object in (101) could therefore be analyzed in Deal’s terms as a
non-quantiﬁcational property type object, a type which cannot enter in an
agreement relation with the verb and its subject.
The transition between stage II and stage III is marked by an increasing
importance of grammatical object agreement of topical objects. In Latin American
Spanish, the pragmatic notion speciﬁcity gives way to topicality by liberal clitic
13 See chapter three, example (70) and discussion.
Diﬀerential object marking, topicality and clitic doubling 105
doubling with feature specifying clitics (AgrPRO). In other words, extending
marking to indeﬁnite speciﬁcs triggered the move from semantic to pragmatic
marking. Diﬀerential object marking is now mainly regulated by information
structure, showing a clear correlation with object marking (Butt and Holloway
King 1996). Optionality will not be an issue any longer if information structure
is considered, as suggested by Dalrymple and Nikolaeva (2011). This takes us to
extended diﬀerential object marking, which is still part of stage II in Standard
Spanish. Combining liberal clitic doubling and extended diﬀerential object mark-
ing to inanimate objects, as in example (103) in the next section, represents a
crucial step on the way to stage III in the evolution of diﬀerential object marking.
4.3.3 Extended diﬀerential object marking
In Butt (1993: 96) the ko marker in Urdu is analyzed as a speciﬁcity marker in
the sense of Enç (1991), as discussed in chapter three, and obligatory with any
“unambiguously deﬁnite (and therefore speciﬁc) entity”. This includes animate
(Ali/him (PRO)) and inanimate (table) objects as shown in (102a).
(102) Urdu (Butt 1993: 96)
a. Zainab=ne ali=ko/us=ko/us mez=ko 1dekh-aa.
Zainab.F=ERG Ali.m=ACC/him.=ACC/DEM table=ACC see-ERF.MSG
‘Zainab saw Ali/him/that table.’
b. Zainab=ne *ali/*vo/?*vo mez dekh-aa.
Zainab.F=ERG Ali.M/him/that table see-PERF.MSG
‘Zainab saw Ali/him/that table.’
The question mark before the ko marked inanimate object in (102b) refers to the
demonstrative that triggering an obligatory case clitic, as Butt notes. In later
work, Butt (2008) analyzes ko-marked direct objects as speciﬁc objects; the
event is placed on a path showing a speciﬁc endpoint but no attainment.
Extended diﬀerential object marking in Standard Spanish is facilitated by a
similar strategy as in Urdu, however it is not (yet) obligatory for inanimate
objects. Fodor and Sag (1982) distinguish between “speaker intent to refer” and
reliance on other parts of the context for interpretation, such as identiﬁcation
of the referent and identiﬁability. Spanish preposed transitive animate clauses
obligatorily show diﬀerential object marking and a resumptive clitic. In the
standard Lima Spanish example (103), the demonstrative esta triggers optional
diﬀerential object marking on the preposed inanimate, deﬁnite, speciﬁc object. It
should be noted that there is a strong preference for diﬀerential object marking.
106 From syntax to information structure
(103) Standard Lima Spanish
(A) esta silla la pongo en otro sitio.
DOM DEM.FSG chair CL3FSG put-1SG PREP other place
‘I’ll put this chair somewhere else.’
The move from stage II to stage III is shown in examples (104). Standard Lima
Spanish (104a) and Limeño Spanish contact varieties in (104b)14 show nominal
casemarking by diﬀerential object marking interacting with verbal object mark-
ing in double actant marking. The transition is marked by clitic doubling
strategies with agreeing clitics in stage II in liberal clitic doubling dialects
(104a) to non-agreeing clitics in stage III in non-standard contact varieties (104b).
(104) Standard Lima Spanish (Mayer, FW) [–anim][+spec][+agr]
a. ¿Lai frío a la cebolla?
CL3FSG fry-1SG DOM DET.FSG onion.FSG
‘Shall I fry the onion?’
Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW) [–anim][–agr]
b. Loi / *lai frío a la cebollai.
CL3MSG / *CL3FSG fry-1SG OM DET.FSG onion.FSG
‘I fry the onion.’
In stage III of Table 4.1, the diﬀerential object marker moves through a transition
stage from agreement marker to object marker in an end state.
The spread of diﬀerential object marking to inanimates also implies a
change in the case system. Bossong (1991: 144) argues that “casemarkers dis-
appear, new ones arise, but the fundamental opposition between the two main
participants in a prototypical transitive action remains valid over and above the
variability of the means which express this relationship.” For non-standardized
contact dialects this implies a move from semantic case to potential structural
case, with the concurrent loss of optional strategies.
Objective marking in Limeño Spanish contact varieties shows a twofold
distinction into grammatical agreement and anaphoric agreement. Diﬀerential
object marking in grammatical agreement, as shown in Table 4.3, still shows
the threefold distinction into obligatory, optional and disallowed/ null marking
dependent on animacy and topical status of the object.
14 Repeated here from chapter one, example (1b).
Diﬀerential object marking, topicality and clitic doubling 107
Table 4.3: Object marking in Limeño Spanish contact varieties
Agreement DOM Object type CLD
Grammatical + [±anim, +aﬀected]
+ [fem, +spec, +highly aﬀected]
± [–anim, +existent, +spec]
– [–anim, –spec, +existent, quant]
– [±anim, +existent]
Anaphoric TOP lo > le > la
Topicality refers to objects that speakers want to refer to because they exist in
their mind and to those objects that are considered topic-worthy – thus speciﬁc.
Aﬀected objects are usually patient objects in monotransitive clauses. Anaphoric
agreement marks topical objects with feature reduced clitics in a scalar system,
where invariant lo is preferred over le followed by the number neutral but
gender-speciﬁc la in rare circumstances.
The range of marking strategies is shown in the following examples. Exten-
sion of diﬀerential object marking to the feminine, animate object in (105a)
introduces a highly topical deﬁnite inanimate in grammatical agreement. The
feminine inanimate object is then referred to in (105b) by invariant lo, which
could be analyzed here as a transitiviser because of an increase in transitivity
through marking a highly prototypical patient argument.
(105) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. Lavo a la yuca, pelo la yuca,
wash-1SG DOM DET.FSG cassava.FSG peel-1SG DET.FSG cassava.FSG
‘I wash the cassava, I peel the cassava,’
b. lo lavo, lo hago en trozos y lo sancocho.
CL3MSG wash-1SG CL3MSG cut-1SG PREP pieces and CL3MSG stew-1SG
‘I wash it, cut it into pieces and stew it.’
Another strategy in (106) applies a gender speciﬁc clitic in grammatical agree-
ment with a highly aﬀected animate (human) object.
(106) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
Si hubiera querido desde un principio
if will-SBJV-3SG want-PARTIC from a beginning
apoyarla a su hija, pero no.
support-INF.CL3FSG DOM POSS daughter but no
‘If he would have wanted to support his daughter from the beginning,
but no.’
108 From syntax to information structure
Yet another strategy is the le/lo alternation and optional diﬀerential object mark-
ing in (107). The impersonal complex predicate construction in (107a) shows
a marked inanimate, deﬁnite object doubled with le. The human, feminine,
bare plural human object in (107b) is unmarked and clitic doubled with lo.
In Standard Spanish, bare plurals are never marked and not clitic doubled.
The apparent accusative construction in (107b) is an alternate of the “more
acceptable” dative triggering casemarking in (107c). Both examples occurred in
the same context, one immediately after the other. Example (107b) is excellent
evidence for lo marking the secondary topic in the monotransitive clause, and
(107a) shows the endpoint of the competition for primary object status, as found
in the single case system in Ecuadorian and Paraguayan Spanish.
(107) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. Sí, hay que pelarle a la yuca.
yes must that peel-INF.CL3SG DOM DET.FSG cassava.FSG
‘Yes, one must peel the cassava.’
b. Bueno, recién que lo conocí amigas de Norma.
well only that CL3MSG meet-PAST-1SG friend-FPL of Norma
‘Well, I met Norma’s friends only recently.’
c. Bueno, recién que le conocí amigas a Norma.
well only that CL3SG meet-PAST-1SG friend-FPL of Norma
‘Well, I only recently learned that Norma had friends.’
Finally, the last two strategies in (108) show again null diﬀerential object mark-
ing and clitic doubling with invariant lo. The preposed “chicken” determiner
phrase in (108) lacks diﬀerential object marking and is referred to by the dative
anaphore le. The indeﬁnite, inanimate, quantiﬁer doubled phrase in (108b)
follows the same pattern in canonical object position. I argue here that both
constructions are motivated by language contact, and that (108b) shows the
featureless clitic lo as topicality and transitivity marker.
(108) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. Yo creo que Ø la regional le
PRO1SG think-1SG that DOM DET.FSG regional CL3SG
dicen que es la gallina.
say-3PL that is-3SG DET.FSG chicken.FSG
‘I think that they call the regional one the chicken.’
b. Lo he licuado un poquito de agua.
CL3MSG have-1SG mix-PARTIC INDEF.MSG QUANT of water
‘I mixed a little bit of water in a blender.’
Diﬀerential object marking, topicality and clitic doubling 109
These examples show that the innovations in Limeño Spanish contact varieties
cannot be explained solely based on extended diﬀerential object marking.
However, before drawing immediate conclusions, two intervening factors
must be considered: (i) reanalysis processes (grammaticalization) aﬀecting the
third person clitic paradigm diﬀerentially; and (ii) contact with Amerindian lan-
guages. Nevertheless, I will make some preliminary observations concerning
grammatical agreement.
The range of clitic variability in the strategies exposed above shows covaria-
tion of accusative lo and dative le which can be linked to the competition of both
internal objects for primary object status. We also see a slight preference for the
unmarked invariant form lo with remnants of the gender speciﬁc accusative
clitic la. By means of double actant marking, the subject is marked as the primary
topic and the marked object as the secondary topic. Concurrently, the same
secondary topic marker acts as a transitiviser, e.g. in (104b). One could hypo-
thesize, that the covariation of the two invariant forms lo and le may be leading
to the end state reached by some dialects of Ecuadorian and Paraguayan Spanish
where we ﬁnd extensive leísmo, as in the impersonal triggering leísmo (107a), and
a single object marking system with lo reduced to propositional anaphoric topic
marker.
I now move on to the ﬁrst of those intervening factors, the grammaticaliza-
tion/reanalysis processes aﬀecting the third person clitic paradigm.
4.4 Clitic evolution by reanalysis
Grammaticalization theory forms part of utterance-based language change
theories. It is a diachronic process whereby meaningful constructions lose their
semantic content through reanalysis and become desemanticized forms. For
clitics, Hopper and Traugott (1993) propose the following grammaticalization
cycle: content item > grammatical word > clitic > inﬂectional aﬃx. According to
Hopper and Traugott (2003) demonstratives and personal pronouns became
agreement morphemes by such a grammaticalization process. The two categories
diﬀer in referentiality; demonstratives don’t allow a bound pronoun reading
but personal pronouns do. Further, demonstratives are the preferred choice for
non-topical antecedents, and personal pronouns are mostly found as discourse
topics. Recall from section 2.3 the genesis of the Spanish third person clitics
in Latin demonstratives, and as such they are the only clitics to preserve the
gender, case and reﬂexivity features.
110 From syntax to information structure
In Standard Spanish, the dative clitic displays both agreement (number
and person) and case in one morpheme, whereas the accusative shows gender
distinction instead of case. Both are clitics in the sense of Zwicky (1977) but
have come to diﬀer in pronominality through diachronic change. As Bresnan
(1997: 1) notes, “. . . the inventory of forms present in each language reﬂects
a contingent and individual path of historical change and areal contact.” This
is certainly the case for the clitic object marking systems in Limeño Spanish
contact varieties and elsewhere in Latin American Spanish which are experienc-
ing dramatic changes.
The grammaticalization path in Limeño Spanish contact varieties conforms
to the patterns established in previous research on Standard Spanish so that the
discussion in this section builds on it.15 The path commences with number
incongruence, followed by loss of gender, yielding a specialized topic-anaphoric
pronominal; this change is unidirectional and irreversible. The evolution and
range of variability of pronominal content is illustrated in the markedness hierarchy
reproduced in (109) from Bresnan (2001a: 116). The hierarchy deﬁnes pronoun
(PRO) as sharing the universal semantic properties of shifting reference and
anaphoricity with all personal pronouns. Agreement markers (AGR) contain the
features person, number and gender. Topic markers (TOP) specialize in referring
to topical elements.
(109)
The dative is a bound pronominal, grammatical agreement marker, whereas the
accusative, stripped of its referential properties, is reduced to topic marker, and
has become “a specialized topic-anaphoric pronominal which lacks any agree-
ment classiﬁcations” [. . .] “Pronominals are reduced if, and only if, they are
specialized for topic anaphoricity” (Bresnan (2001a: 119). This last information-
structural property is of fundamental importance to the analysis of the variability
found in Limeño Spanish contact varieties and particularly to invariant lo. It
also raises the general question whether the direct object clitic lo marks a
grammatical function or a discourse function, or possibly both. In any case, the
morphological change in the paradigm is likely to trigger syntactic change.
15 For research on Standard Spanish gramaticalization see especially Escobar (1978); Calvo
(1996, 1997, 2008); Caravedo (1990, 1999); Cerrón Palomino (1995, 2003); Pérez (1997, 2000).
Clitic evolution by reanalysis 111
Study of how language learners acquire competence in production of clitics
is suggestive for understanding change in the clitic paradigm. Egerland (2005:
1105) working on Italian loro, argues that diachronic change from weak to clitic
must be triggered externally by morpho-phonological reduction of the clitic over
time. Because of that reduction, the language learner could be led to reanalyze
the pronoun as a clitic, a view shared by Cardinaletti and Starke (1996). The
acquisition of the third person clitic paradigm follows closely universal grammar
acquisition principles, where clitics are acquired successively, depending on
their syntactic function. Notable is that the clitic acquisition hierarchy is the
same for ﬁrst and second language acquisition. Unmarked categories are learned
before marked categories. The unmarked forms lo and le are acquired before the
age of three, feminine gender and number plural follow later. The same order
has been conﬁrmed by Klee (1989) for bilingual Quechua-Spanish speakers and
by Calvo (1996–1997) for Andean Spanish speakers. These ﬁndings are also con-
ﬁrmed by the scalar production of the clitics in the Limeño Spanish contact data.
Table 4.4 shows the evolution of change (Palacios 2005: 77). In contact lan-
guages the last category is the ﬁrst to disappear. Researchers in Andean Spanish
contact agree that the changes are to be seen in terms of general linguistic
changes and not regional and individualised changes, taking place in two
stages.
Table 4.4: Evolution of change (Palacios 2005)
Stage 1 Stage 2
Indirect object le le
Direct object lo le
Ecuador and Paraguay have completed the evolution in showing a sole case
system for object marking; they have completed stage two. Peru, Mexico and
Guatemala may have completed only the ﬁrst stage – paradigm simpliﬁcation –
or may be somewhere on the path to completing it. I have shown a parallel
development for the diﬀerential object marking system in Table 4.1. Stage I of
the clitic evolution would then concur with the transitory stage of stage III (a),
and stage II with the end stage of III (b).
Table 4.5 summarizes the diﬀerences between Limeño Spanish contact
varieties (LSCV) and Standard Spanish, and how grammaticalized clitics interact
with semantic and pragmatic object marking strategies in those varieties. It
links the previous exposition of grammaticalized direct object clitics in Limeño
Spanish contact varieties and foreshadows their pragmatic marking as secondary
topic, to be discussed in part II of this chapter.
112 From syntax to information structure
Table 4.5: Anaphoric and grammatical clitic agreement in Limeño Spanish contact varieties and
Standard Spanish.
LSCV Anaphoric agreement Grammatical agreement
le Leísmo Topic
lo Loísmo Secondary topic
la Laísmo Secondary topic
Standard Anaphoric agreement Grammatical agreement
le(s) Indices cIndirect object
lo(s) Indices cPronominal object
la(s) Indices cPronominal object
Wechsler and Zlatić (2003) identify anaphoric agreement as pronoun antecedent
agreement with referentially anchored indices, deﬁned on discourse structure.
As shown in Table 4.5, indices in Standard Spanish show feature agreement
with their referential object. In Limeño Spanish contact varieties and elsewhere,16
these indices have given way to a range of leísmo, loísmo and laísmo strategies.
Grammatical agreement is part of structural syntax, clitics as agreement markers
show the following twofold distinction. Standard clitics show coreference based
on semantic constraints (animacy, deﬁniteness and speciﬁcity). Grammaticized
clitics have become head-markers with le identifying the topical object (primary
object) and lo, la marking the secondary topic (and primary object) of a mono-
transitive clause.
The next subsections discuss some historical drivers and motivations for the
simpliﬁcation of the clitic paradigm in Limeño Spanish contact data.
4.4.1 Drivers of change – gender and number
Inherent (grammatical) gender is not easily subject to forms of language change,
but semantic (natural) gender can be. Nominals displaying morphological mark-
ing, apparently mimicking their natural gender, like in hermano, hermana
‘brother, sister’, could lead to the assumption of natural gender. However, the
existence of invariable (la ballena macho/hembra, ‘the male/female whale’) or
bivalent nouns (el/la electricista, ‘the male/female electrician’) and the lack
of neuter marking in the nominal category leads to the conclusion that gender
in Spanish is a grammatical category consisting of a twofold distinction of
16 I refer here to other monolingual and bilingual Spanish dialects that show very similar
variability.
Clitic evolution by reanalysis 113
masculine and feminine, the latter being the marked gender. Spanish gender is
inherent/grammatical and for inanimates not semantically motivated (el arból,
la playa ‘the tree, the beach’).
In relation to weakening and loss of gender, high levels of intraspeaker
variability in a socially equal, stable and homogeneous village population has
been linked to language obsolescence and impending language death, as
advanced by Pensalﬁni (1999) for an Australian aboriginal language Jingulu,
Aikhenvald (2002) in Tariana, an Arawakan language in the Brazilian Amazon,
and Dal Negro (1998) for Pomattertitsch, a Walser17 dialect of northern Italy. In a
Hebridean dialect in East Sutherland Gaelic, Dorian (2001: 143) found weakening
of gender constrained to pronominal reference while other gender signalling
devices don’t seem to show the same tendency. Limeño Spanish contact varieties
show the exact same tendency.
In demonstratives and determiners gender plays an important role in
semantic functions regarding pragmatic marking. This includes clitics, where
gender marking extends to either identifying referents or social distinction
(Bhat 2004: 111). Languages marking gender in the third person pronoun are
mainly two-person languages, where the third person pronouns “are regarded
as part of the system of demonstratives rather than that of personal pronouns”
Bhat (2004: 109).18 In Latin American Spanish, the social distinction for the plural
has been lost by replacing the second person plural with the third person plural
paradigm. However, in the same move, extension of the gender feature has added
referentiality. This indicates a move from semantic to pragmatic marking. In
these contexts, extension may even include ﬁrst person. It can be stated that
gender marking on third person is generally used to identify referents whereas
gender marking on ﬁrst and second person primarily emphasises social distinc-
tion. Generally, feminine gender is marked; masculine gender is inclusive,
generic, and subsumes feminine gender in coordinated constructions.
4.4.2 Morphological simpliﬁcation in Limeño Spanish contact varieties
Regarding number and gender in clitics in Limeño Spanish contact varieties we
ﬁnd the following:
17 German based dialect.
18 Bhatt proposes that there are two languages where gender marking is extended to second
person and these are: non-singular in Spanish, and dual and trial in Nunggubuyu. See Green
(1988: 95) for Spanish and Heath (1984) for Nunggubuyu.
114 From syntax to information structure
1. A hybrid clitic system sharing either case or gender, restricted to oral lan-
guage.
2. Increasing leísmo, triggering morphological simpliﬁcation of case features
and indicating competition of object marking diﬀerential object marking vs.
dative marking; part of the system since the early days of colonization.
3. Generalised neutralization of the number feature, attested in written language
for the indirect object clitic.
These points are demonstrated in the Limeño Spanish contact varieties example
below. The context is introduced in an impersonal construction (110a) with an
anaphoric indirect object clitic showing leísmo extended to a feminine object.
Impersonal and low referentiality go well together to establish the topic. In
(110b) we ﬁnd gender agreeing la and unusual diﬀerential object marking.
(110c) shows a standard pronominal clitic doubling construction. The two
human, deﬁnite, speciﬁc arguments in (110b) are a typical case of the laísmo
strategy as secondary topic with double actant marking, showing the strong
relationship between the subject as the primary topic and the highly aﬀected
object as the secondary topic.19
(110) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. Y le tuvieron que hacer cesárea.
and CL3SG have-PAST-3PL that do-INF Caesarean
‘And she had to have a Caesarean [section].’
b. Cuando ella la cortaban a la
when PRO3FSG CL3FSG cut-PAST-3PL DOM DET.FSG
barriga para sacarla al bebe.
stomach PREP take-INF-CL3FSG DOM-DET.MSG baby
‘When they cut her belly open to take the baby out.’
c. El doctor la ha felicitado a ella.
The doctor CL3FSG has-3SG congratulate-PARTIC DOM PRO3FSG
‘The doctor congratulated her.’
Example (111) shows free variation of the indirect object clitic le and the direct
object clitic lo, with le on the ﬁnite verb and lo on the following inﬁnitive; both
refer to the same human, feminine object trying to negotiate the price for the
19 This means marking information structural role in accordance with Dalrymple and Nikolaeva
(2011). This is also a typical option as mentioned in Table 4.3.
Clitic evolution by reanalysis 115
taxi. Relevant here is that the feminine clitic la is never used for a masculine
object.
(111) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
para ver si le aceptan pues traerlo
to see-INF if CL3SG accept-3PL then bring-INF-CL3MSG
por menos precio.
for less money
‘. . . to see if they would accept (from her) to drive her for a lower fare.’
Escobar (1978: 111) is one of the earliest to document lack of number for third
person direct object clitics under the term neutralización de número (neutraliza-
tion of number) in Lima Spanish. For the Limeño Spanish contact varieties
example in (112a) with a feminine, human object and for (112b) with a feminine,
inanimate object, I will argue that lo in these cases functions as secondary topic
marker, marking the primary object and secondary topic in a monotransitive
clause. In this function the copy can only appear in its unmarked form lo.
(112) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. No mía, pero sí loi conoce a las chicasi.
no mine but yes CL3SG know-3SG DOM DET.FPL chica.FPL
‘Not mine, but yes, (s)he knows the girls.’
b. O verloi bien las letrasi que dicen.
or see-INF-CL3NSG well DET.FPL letter.FPL that say-3PL
‘Or see them well, the characters as they are usually called.’
Gutiérrez Ordoñez (1999: 187)) associates lack of number agreement in plural
indirect objects with problems in long distance relations. In his observations fre-
quency of disagreement increases with distance. Non-agreeing number feature
in ditransitive indirect object clitic doubling constructions, as in (113), is already
attested in written language and can be found in newspapers as well.
(113) Standard Spanish
a. Lesi entregamos el regalo a los niñosi.
CL3PL give-PAST-1PL the gift DOM DET.MPL child.MPL
‘We gave the gift to the children.’
Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
b. Lei entregamos el regalo a los niñosi.
CL3SG give-PAST-1PL the gift DAT DET.MPL child.MPL
‘We gave the gift to the children.’
116 From syntax to information structure
Lack of number agreement is a common occurrence in the Spanish of Limeño
newspaper nowadays, as in (114) from my corpus data.
(114) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
De repente creen que le estaban haciendo un
hence think-3PL that CL3SG are-PAST-3PL do-GERUND a
daño pues a las personas.
harm ehm DAT DET.FPL people.FPL
‘Possibly they think that they were causing harm, er, to the people.’
4.5 Summary of argument thus far
Historically, Spanish has been moving from a synthetic language toward an
analytical language, on the way losing inﬂection almost exclusively in peripheral
areas, such as the morphological passive and nominal declension, while preserv-
ing gender and number in the latter (Green 1988). Nonetheless, Spanish is a
morphologically complex language, and runs counter to ‘unidirectionality’ of
change, since it is adding even more inﬂection to the pronominal system by
dropping the case syncretic second person plural object clitic and adopting
instead the gender and number specifying second person plural. However, this
development is restricted to Latin American Spanish.20
The continuous historical extension of diﬀerential object marking and con-
current grammaticalization processes aﬀect the agreement status of direct object
clitics, which, in losing their agreement features, become mere head-markers
based on person. Throughout the preceding chapters I have linked syntactic
marking of grammaticalized direct object clitics to the information-structural
notions of topic and secondary topic marking. The proposal for a modiﬁed pro-
jection/dependence matrix in Table 2.9, allowed for a provisional analysis of
invariant lo and to a minor extent la, as the exponents of secondary topic in
monotransitive clauses based on a more ﬁne-grained classiﬁcation of projectivity.
Part 2: Information structure
In the second part of this chapter I will show how grammatical marking can be
linked to, or inﬂuenced by, the information structure role of marked objects. I
will argue that in Spanish the pragmatic notion of secondary topic is diﬀerent
20 See the exposition of the clitic paradigm in chapter two.
Summary of argument thus far 117
from the notion topic, and can be linked to the syntactic role of primary object.
In monotransitive clauses, the secondary topic is a direct object showing head-
marking with non-agreeing clitics and dependent-marking displaying some
variability.
For languages with extended diﬀerential object marking such as Limeño
Spanish contact varieties, Persian, Hindi and Romanian, Turkish, Russian,
Tagalog and Mongolian (Comrie 1997), which are all very similar in terms of the
distribution of marking, the presence of case marking yields a more marked
entity, which can be explained in terms of information structure (Dalrymple
and Nikolaeva 2011; Croft 1988: 165). My assumptions about pragmatic functions
are based on Butt and King (1996); Nikolaeva (1999, 2001); Dalrymple and Nikolaeva
(2011) and Lambrecht (1994).
In the following, I introduce ﬁrst the new diﬀerential object marking theory
due to Dalrymple and Nikolaeva (2011) and its theoretical underpinnings. I then
brieﬂy review previous work on secondary topic marking in Spanish, followed
by a detailed analysis and comparison of the notions topic and secondary topic
in relation to the Limeño Spanish contact data.
4.6 Diﬀerential object marking and information structure
Semantic and functional analyzes such as classical markedness theory and
theories dealing with accusative-dative alternations21 (Givón 1976; Hopper and
Thompson 1980; Naess 2004) correlate marking with the semantic features
animacy and deﬁniteness, however they only account partially for the range of
variability pertinent to Limeño Spanish contact varieties marked direct objects.
The same applies to functional analyzes of diﬀerential object marking (Aissen
2003; Silverstein 1976) focussing on disambiguation of the core arguments in
transitive clauses based on marking triggered by the semantic conditions deﬁnite-
ness and animacy. Subjects are generally assumed to outrank objects in promi-
nence due to animacy, the reverse applies to objects (Croft 1988). Aissen adopts
the relational scale subject > object in an Optimality-theoretic account strongly
based on the deﬁniteness scale.22 Harmonic alignment of both produces the two
markedness scales in Table 4.6, which show the correlation between gram-
matical function and the semantic conditions that lead to marking. The subject
hierarchy in (a) shows “markedness reversal” with the object hierarchy in (b),
the same semantic features appear on opposite edges.
21 Semantic roles of marked objects and related theories are treated in chapter six in conjunc-
tion with contact.
22 As discussed in chapter three.
118 From syntax to information structure
Table 4.6: Markedness hierarchies (Aissen 2003: 445)
a. su / pro ≻ su / pn ≻ su / def ≻ su / spec ≻ su / nspec
b. obj / nspec ≻ obj / spec ≻ obj / def ≻ obj / pn ≻ obj / pro
The above-mentioned semantic and functional approaches fail to fully account
for languages – such as Limeño Spanish contact varieties – that display a close
relation between syntactic roles and discourse roles. The diﬀerent and evolving
patterns of diﬀerential object marking in Spanish tend to mark the topical object
by syntactic means and the semantic features like animacy and deﬁniteness play
a role in the “grammaticalization of topichood” as argued by Dalrymple and
Nikolaeva (2011: 18) in their syntactic account of diﬀerential object marking.
In that account, they analyze variable patterns of diﬀerential object marking
governed by information structure based on a distinction between topic-worthiness
and topicality with a strong emphasis on the context. Focussing on the gram-
matical function of object, they explore similarities between core arguments,
properties shared by both subjects and objects, and map those to information
structural properties. This broad focus allows these authors to account for
optional marking of objects with identical semantic features and topic-worthiness
status. Topicality is shared between the subject as primary topic and speciﬁc
objects as secondary topics. This proposal is partly based on a comparison of
syntactic properties of subjects and objects in Northern Ostyak, showing a
close link between the primary object and the secondary topic (Dalrymple and
Nikolaeva 2011; Nikolaeva 1999).
The diﬀerence between marked and unmarked objects can be related to
diﬀerent information structures expressed in syntactic terms, representing two
diﬀerent grammatical functions. This is similar to a previous proposal within
Lexical-Functional Grammar in which Butt and King (1996) link the weak/
nonspeciﬁc object in Hindi/Urdu and Turkish to the grammatical function primary
object and associate it with the information structure role focus. The strong/
speciﬁc object then takes on the restricted secondary object role or thematic
object (OBJθ) which is non-focussed. This analysis follows Bresnan and Kaplan
(1982) and Bresnan and Kanerva (1989). Dalrymple and Nikolaeva (2011) suggest
the opposite distribution for Ostyak and Chatino. Based on an extensive cross-
linguistic survey they propose that the more marked object shows more core
grammatical functions as shown in the mapping of the grammatical functions
to their respective information structure roles in Table 4.7.
Diﬀerential object marking and information structure 119
Table 4.7: Default alignment (Dalrymple and Nikolaeva 2011: 166)
information structure: topic secondary topic focus
| | |
functional structure: subject object objθ/oblique
Based on the proposed default alignment between functional structure and
information structure they suggest the following generalization over morpholog-
ical marking of objects.
1. Marking of objects is not functional markedness.
2. Marked objects are simply primary objects which are topical and can conse-
quently adopt multiple thematic roles.
3. Unmarked objects on the other hand are classiﬁed as focused secondary
objects, they are semantically restricted.
This proposal works well for nominative-accusative languages because they
seem to display diﬀerential object marking with greater frequency than ergative-
absolutive languages.
4.7 The notion of secondary topic
The term secondary topic has been already introduced in chapter one and it has
come up throughout the chapters since then. Givón (1983) discusses the possibility
in many languages having an opposition of direct and indirect functions. Based
on the subject as the primary topic, he proposes the term secondary topic for the
direct object. Marked (promoted) direct objects occupy second position in the
grammatical case hierarchy shown in (115a) which in turn is based on the seman-
tically based case-role hierarchy in (115b) (Givón 1983: 22).
(115) a. Subject > Object > Others
b. Agent > Dative / Benefactive > Accusative > Others
Dalrymple and Nikolaeva analyze the diﬀerences between marked and unmarked
objects as diﬀerent information structures expressed in syntactic terms, represent-
ing two diﬀerent grammatical functions. In line with their theory, marking is
preferred “in contexts where the object is salient and the utterance updates
the addressee’s knowledge about the relation that holds between the subject
and the object referents” (Dalrymple and Nikolaeva 2011: 162). In these terms,
marked direct objects in some languages can be analyzed as the primary object
120 From syntax to information structure
and the secondary topic, where grammatical marking is linked to information-
structural role.
The theory assumes the following information-theoretical deﬁnitions mainly
based on Lambrecht (1994). It is important to note that the notion topic in
Lambrecht’s sense is restricted to sentence or clause topics and further restricted
to topical participants; it does not extend to discourse topics.
Lambrecht (1994: 118) deﬁnes topic as follows: “the topic of a sentence is the
thing which the proposition expressed by the sentence is ABOUT”. In taking the
communicative context into account, the ‘aboutness’ relation combines the topic
referent and the object referent and the resulting propositions in a given dis-
course context. This implies that the topic can be either the subject or another
grammatical relation in the proposition, a fact that is crucial for the distinction
between topic and secondary topic in my Limeño Spanish contact varieties data.
In Dalrymple and Nikolaeva (2011: 49) topichood is not tied uniquely to the
referential properties of a noun phrase but deﬁned by the “aboutness” relation.
They further make an important distinction between natural topicality (Croft
1991) and topic-worthiness (Comrie 2003). The former reﬂects the pragmatic
relation between the referent and the proposition, while the latter represents
the potential to become a topic by the degree of pragmatic saliency such marked
objects show for the interlocutors. The cut-oﬀ is non-referential indeﬁnites which
cannot become topics. Therefore, it is crucial for topics to identify the referents.
Lambrecht (1994: 5) deﬁnes information structure as follows:
[. . .] that component of sentence grammar in which propositions as conceptual representa-
tions of states of aﬀairs are paired with lexico-grammatical structures in accordance with
the mental states of interlocutors who use and interpret these structures as units of infor-
mation in given discourse contexts.
A proposition is further divided into pragmatic presupposition and pragmatic
assertion. Presupposition refers to the speaker’s assumptions of the addressee’s
knowledge of the discourse referents at the time of the utterance. Pragmatic
assertion is in Dalrymple and Nikolaeva (2011: 46) “new information, the propo-
sition which the addressee is expected to learn as a result of hearing the
sentence.”
Focus as put forward by Lambrecht (1994: 213) is “the semantic component
of a pragmatically structured proposition whereby the assertion diﬀers from the
presupposition”. Focus is mostly associated with new information and is further
divided into narrow focus, wide focus and sentence focus. I will not go into
more detail here, as the main aim of this chapter is to give an analysis of topic
and secondary topic in Limeño Spanish contact varieties.
The notion of secondary topic 121
For this study, I adopt Nikolaeva (2011: 26) where the secondary topic
is treated as “an entity such that the utterance is construed to be ABOUT the
relationship between it and the primary topic”. This new theory accounts for
agentive subjects, double actant marking (Bossong 2003); and it allows for a
topic marker to interact with transitivity (Hopper and Thompson 1980). It is
also compatible with the concept of aﬀectedness (Naess 2004) and telicity
(Kiparsky 1998; Ritter and Rosen 2001) as discussed in chapter six. The common
basis constitutes the association of the semantic features with the individuation
of the referent and the object.
Spanish and Ostyak show at least two parallel conditions regarding object
marking: (i) speciﬁcity restrictions and (ii) agentive and topical subjects. Object
agreement is optional and non-agreeing objects are interpreted as focus. Sec-
ondary topics are agreeing objects that must be speciﬁc.
4.7.1 Previous accounts for Spanish
The literature on semantic aspects of discourse roles is vast. In the following I
concentrate ﬁrst on the most important works relevant to the speciﬁc setting of
my non-standard data. Then I discuss the only work in Spanish I am aware of
related to secondary topic marking in the sense of Nikolaeva (1999, 2000) and
as mentioned before.
More generally, extensive studies on acquisition of clitics in monolinguals
and bilinguals have shown that clitic placement regarding ﬁnite and non-ﬁnite
verbs is learned rapidly, in accordance with the Full Access Hypothesis to Uni-
versal Grammar (Clahsen and Muysken 1989; Schwartz and Sprouse 1996; White
2003). The left periphery however is more likely to pose a problem, especially to
later bilinguals as word order restructuring might involve parameter resetting
depending on the word order of the learner’s L1 (Camacho 1999). Information
structure seems to require more than intermediate proﬁciency of the language,
as shown in Montrul (2006: 226) and references within. In a previous study of
interlanguage word order of Quechua ﬁrst language/Spanish second language
speakers, Camacho (1999) shows that even advanced Spanish speakers with
near native proﬁciency had diﬃculties in distinguishing between speciﬁc and
non-speciﬁc preposed topics; with regard to standard or complete grammar,
near natives may remain with incomplete acquisition or fossilization. These
studies concentrate on external topics (dislocated at the left or right periphery),
and there is practically no mentioning of internal topics (core object functions),
which is the emphasis of naturally occurring speech data. Clitic placement with
ﬁnite verbs is learned rapidly by both ﬁrst and second language learners. The
122 From syntax to information structure
placement of items on the left periphery seems relevant as background for
studies discussed next.
Leonetti’s study (2004) for Standard Spanish is the only one that discusses
topic marking in relation to secondary topic.23 He deﬁnes topic in the sense of
link, that is, in the “aboutness” sense, anchoring new assertions. Based on the
example in (116), Leonetti suggests that the diﬀerential object marker a may be
analyzed as a topic marker.
(116) Standard Spanish (Leonetti 2004: 85)
Necesitaban (a) un especialista.
need-PAST-3PL DOM INDEF.MSG specialist.MSG
‘They needed a specialist.’
Consider his argument based on his assumptions:
i. “Animacy overrides all other factors in the diﬀerential object marking system
in Spanish” (Leonetti 2004: 85).24
ii. Leonetti distinguishes between casemarked direct objects allowing strong
interpretations when casemarked as opposed to a weak interpretation when
unmarked as shown in optional diﬀerential object marking for a human
indeﬁnite noun phrase in (116).
iii. Leonetti believes with Pensado (1995), Zubizarreta (1998) and many others,
that the origin of Spanish a as a casemarker stems from topicalised left
dislocations originally with personal pronouns, which naturally impose a
strong interpretation triggering casemarking. Syntactic dislocation would
then link diﬀerential object marking to a topicalization mechanism. External
topics show weaker interpretive constraints than internal topics.25 However,
the topicality status of internal topics may also depend on presence or
absence of a clitic for referential resolution.
In sum, Leonetti rejects the idea of linking agreeing internal topics to the infor-
mation structure role of secondary topic for two reasons: ﬁrstly, for Spanish he
rejects motivation of diﬀerential object marking exclusively by information
structure, and secondly, the lack of animacy playing a role in Ostyak object
agreement.
23 Leonetti follows Nikolaeva (1999, 2001) and Dalrymple and Nikolaeva (2011), but rejects
secondary topic marking.
24 As discussed in chapter three section two, Leonetti argues for animacy as a trigger for
diﬀerential object marking and against speciﬁcity.
25 See for example Aissen (1992) for her analysis of external and internal topics in Mayan.
The notion of secondary topic 123
For my argument contra Leonetti’s view, the diﬀerence between standard
written and spoken Spanish and non-standardized contact varieties is relevant.
As I show in this book, variability data seemingly break all rules, at the same
time they present a unique opportunity to learn about the relationship between
grammatical functions and their potential information structure roles. So far, I
have established that there is a very strong link between clitics and topicality,
and a very strong correlation of diﬀerential object marking with animacy – a
claim I now proceed to substantiate based on example (116).
In (116) the unmarked object introduces an indeﬁnite referent as new infor-
mation. The marked object in turn anchors this new information; diﬀerential
object marking updates the unknown referent to an existing entity, but the
referent has not been identiﬁed. Only the presence of the diﬀerential marker
a implies the existence of a specialist known to the speaker. In terms of the
identiﬁability scale, the specialist exists. Existent is not speciﬁc and only speciﬁc
entities, which are referentially identiﬁable, are topical.
This also counters the claim in (ii); I consider the marked object to be
focused and not topical because it is new information. (See further example
(117) in the next section.)
Leonetti’s claim (iii) acknowledges the potential importance of referential
clitics in establishing topicality based on left dislocations. A left dislocation
creates preposed arguments which must be taken up by a referential clitic, how-
ever diﬀerential object marking in standard Spanish is mostly restricted to
animate objects. On the other hand, cases of diﬀerential object marking which
mark a referential direct object, or which occur with primary transitive verbs
involving a highly agentive subject and patient object, would be topical.
However, as Lapesa (1964: 80) pointed out, diﬀerential object marking made
its ﬁrst appearance with strong pronouns and marking was constrained to these
for some time (cf. this chapter, section three). Optionality with existent in-
deﬁnites as in (116) points to a candidate for becoming a topical object in the
subsequent discourse. This discussion serves as an introduction to the interac-
tion between casemarking and pragmatic marking.
4.8 Correlation of case marking and information structure
The similarities and diﬀerences between the two internal arguments and the
subject as the external argument in terms of agreement are important to estab-
lishing the basis for the following exposition of pragmatic marking, and the
distinction topic/secondary topic in Limeño Spanish contact varieties. As agree-
124 From syntax to information structure
ment in terms of dependent and head-marking is an intraclausal phenomenon,
I will not be concerned with the distinction into intraclausal and discourse
topicality. Topicality and agreement are closely linked, the stronger the agree-
ment, the more topical the argument. For example, subject-verb and clitics-OBJθ
show both strong agreement and are as such highly topical.
Alsina (1993: 453–454) argues that in any language the distinction between
objects is secondary only to the distinction between subject and object. Marked
and unmarked objects have diﬀerent grammatical functions, object agreement
correlates with the syntactic role of the object. For Limeño Spanish contact
varieties this is the primary object. Table 4.8 shows primary agreement and
secondary agreement of subject and the primary object in Standard Spanish.
Table 4.8: Similarities subject and object – Standard Spanish
Agreement Secondary agreement Primary agreement
Subject (overt subject) verbal incorporation
Direct object clitic doublingcTOP casemarkingcSPEC
Indirect object clitic doubling casemarking
Secondary subject agreement in Spanish is optional for pronominal noun phrases;
optionality depends on topical conditions. For direct objects secondary agreement
is triggered exclusively by topical arguments, and the cut-oﬀ for indirect objects
is inanimate goal objects.
The struggle of both internal object arguments for primary objecthood carries
over to secondary topic marking showing the same pattern. The direct object wins
in transitive clauses and the indirect object in ditransitive clauses. The strong
similarities between both arguments are important for the historical develop-
ment in Limeño Spanish contact varieties and in dialects with extensive leísmo.
Before I turn to show how information structure role inﬂuences grammatical
marking. I set out descriptions of topic, focus and secondary topic which I apply
in discussing Limeño Spanish contact varieties.26
Focus is assumed to be new information, with an overtly expressed referent.
Focused objects are nontopical objects and cross-linguistically unmarked.
Topic can be marked either head only, dependent only, or both. An impor-
tant point is that a topic is not new but updated information about an already
26 These descriptions of fundamental terms are based on Dalrymple and Nikolaeva (2011);
Lambrecht (1994); Croft (1991); Givón (1983) and Comrie (2003).
Correlation of case marking and information structure 125
established referent, i.e., referentially anchored in the discourse, implying topics
must be referential.
Primary topic is the natural topic, the agentive subject.
Secondary topics in Limeño Spanish contact varieties are
– referents that are more marked,
– the central point of attention of the primary topic,
– never new information,
– the targets of several actions performed by the primary topic: they are
activities, events or goals pointed to and/or accompanied by body language
(gestures for example); the attention shifts between primary and secondary
topic with an intent to assure concentration on the object (the secondary
topic) that is talked about, worked with, etc.
– part of oral based communication and usually do not occur in written
language,
– direct objects that show plus/minus diﬀerential object marking and invariant
lo, la,
– direct objects that show a very close relationship to the primary topic.
In sum, a secondary topic is “an entity such that the utterance is construed to be
ABOUT the relationship between it and the primary topic” (Nikolaeva 2001: 26).
Topic-worthiness is dependent on the primary topic’s selection tied into
double actant marking (Bossong 2003).
I now move on to discuss information structure roles in Standard Spanish
and in non-standard Limeño Spanish contact varieties.
4.8.1 Topic vs. focus
Spanish is a SVO pro-drop language. Its discourse conﬁguration reserves the
clause-initial position for topics, and the postverbal position is assigned as the
canonical focus position. As shown in (117), the postverbal position is open to
both focus and topic. A question to determine the information-structure role for
each example is given in (117a) and (117). The diﬀerence between focus and topic
is shown in (117b) (focus) and (117d) (topic).
In a previous analysis Sánchez (2005), based on Kiss (1998), identiﬁed mark-
ing of the sole object of the transitive clause in the Standard Spanish example in
(117b) as informational focus [+deﬁnite], and the clitic doubling example (117d),
in River Plate, as identiﬁcational focus.
126 From syntax to information structure
(117) a. Who did you see?
Standard Spanish, River Plate, Lima Spanish [+exist] → [+focus]
b. Vi a Ana.
see-PAST-1SG DOM Ana
‘I saw Ana.’
c. Did you see Ana?
Standard Spanish
d. La vi.
CL3FSG see-PAST-1SG
‘I saw her.’
River Plate, Lima Spanish [+spec] → [top]
e. Lai vi a Anai.
CL3FSG see-PAST-1SG DOM Ana
‘I saw her, Ana.’
Regarding question (117a) I agree with the analysis of the Standard Spanish
example in (117b) as focus because the named deﬁnite referent exists and it is
new information. (117b) is the generally expected answer to the question in
(117a) in both standard and liberal clitic doubling Spanish. Question (117c), how-
ever, draws out the diﬀerence. In the standard Spanish answer, the direct object
is referred to by a feature-specifying anaphoric clitic. The liberal clitic doubling
answer in (117e) shows secondary agreement with a feature-specifying clitic
which establishes a relationship between the subject and the object referent,
updating information about a speciﬁc existent referent, therefore I analyze it as
topic and not focus. Since Lima Spanish clitic doubling also involves agreeing
clitics, it is like the River Plate example in (117e).
Recall from chapter three that the interesting notion speciﬁcity is the intra-
sentential referential anchoring of a determiner phrase to another discourse
object; it overrides animacy in these cases and triggers clitic doubling struc-
tures. In the context of these data speciﬁcity acts as the pragmatic strategy for
the speaker to deliberately topicalize an object either in canonical postverbal
focus position or through word order restructuring. This assumption is mainly
based on Dalrymple and Nikolaeva (2011) and partially on a hypothesis that
only the class of verbs that takes an agent as semantic subject role can a-mark
the direct object (Torrego 1999: 1785).27 Topicality is a property subjects and
27 For a detailed discussion about accusative case in Spanish see Torrego (1998).
Correlation of case marking and information structure 127
objects have in common. The subject is the primary topic, and as Dalrymple and
Nikolaeva (2011: 167) note, “[. . .] objects are just as likely to be topics as to be in
focus”. As we can appreciate from the grammatical function hierarchy shown in
(118), the object located in the middle of the hierarchy can be either topic or
focus, depending on whether they are marked or unmarked. In general, focus
tends to associate with lower ranking arguments, and topics with arguments
high on the hierarchy scale. As clitic doubled examples such as (117e) are highly
topical arguments I associate them with topic rather than focus, in accordance
with the hierarchy. Highly topical here means deliberately marked by the subject
as the primary topic as being topic-worthy (double actant marking) and by
showing both head-marking and dependent-marking. In such a construction,
the referent is known and the information updates the knowledge about the
subject and the object referent.
(118) Subject > Object > Oblique
Topic > Focus
I present two more examples that corroborate the claim made in the previous
paragraph; the ﬁrst, from a typologically related language, and the other from
an unrelated language.
Ibizan Catalan28 codes information structure roles by word order restruc-
turing and diﬀerential object marking of speciﬁcally topical objects. Consider
the following examples in (119), where diﬀerential object marking consistently
appears on all dislocated topical objects but not on focused objects, which,
according to Escandell-Vidal (2007) are never marked.
(119) Ibizan Catalan (Escandell-Vidal 2007: 31)
a. Vaig ﬁcar (*an) es ganivets an es calaix.
Have-1SG put-INF (*OM) the knives in the drawer
‘I put the knives into the drawer.’
b. An es ganivets, els vaig ﬁcar an es calaix.
OM the knives them have-1SG put in the drawer
‘The knives, I put them in the drawer.’
c. Els vaig ﬁcar an es calaix, an es ganivets.
them have-1SG put in the drawer OM the knives
‘I put them into the drawer, the knives.’
28 Escandell-Vidal notes that the dialects of Balearic Catalan are very diﬀerent from main-
stream Catalan most probably due to a small monolingual population, high levels of illiteracy,
probably due to remoteness, and lack of contact with Spanish until the nineteenforties. She
mentions geographical isolation as an important factor in having maintained archaic features
and, at the same time showing ‘peculiar’ innovations.
128 From syntax to information structure
Further evidence comes from the Hindi/Urdu postposition ko which is strongly
dispreferred in focus (wide and narrow), and preferably used “in contexts where
the object is salient and the utterance updates the addressee’s knowledge about
the relation that holds between the subject and the object referents” (Dalrymple
and Nikolaeva 2011: 162). Mohanan (1994) mentions that primary objects in
Hindi are marked by ACC -ko, as shown in (120a), or unmarked in (120b).
(120) Hindi (Mohanan 1994: 87–88)
a. Ravii-ne kacce kele-ko kaataa.
Ravi-E unripe-NN banana-A cut-PERF
‘Ravi cut the/*an unripe banana.’
b. Ravii-ne kacce kelaa kaataa.
Ravi-E unripe-N banana cut-PERF
‘Ravi cut the/an unripe banana.’
Recall the strong similarities of ko and a in regard to locative genesis, diachronic
evolution, dative/accusative case syncretism and topic marking.
The evidence from Ibizan Catalan, a closely related dialect of the same lan-
guage family, as well as evidence from Hindi/Urdu, an unrelated and typologi-
cally diﬀerent language, strengthen the hypothesis that in the Spanish dialects
under discussion we see a similar eﬀect of topicalization.
4.8.2 Topic and secondary topic
Diﬀerential object marking and restricted clitic doubling of direct objects in
standard Spanish can only be analyzed in truth-conditional semantic terms,
while speciﬁcity constraints can be explained in terms of animacy and identiﬁa-
bility of referents. Cooccurrence of head- and dependent-marking in liberal clitic
doubling dialects and in Limeño Spanish contact varieties is triggered by topi-
cality and depends on information structure role.
As shown in (117e), I associate the information-structure role of topic with
liberal clitic doubling dialects (River Plate, Lima Spanish) and secondary topic
with Limeño Spanish contact varieties and propose to make a distinction
between them due to diﬀerent stages of grammaticalization. Secondary agree-
ment or head-marking in both stages is essentially the same clitic doubling
strategy. However, the semantic loss of the gender and number features of the
direct object clitic in Limeño Spanish contact varieties reduces the previously
feature-specifying agreement marker to a head-marker marking person only.
The notion secondary topic is comparable to the analysis of the Chicheŵa object
Correlation of case marking and information structure 129
described by Bresnan and Mchombo (1987: 746) as the topic with the status
as being “under discussion, whether previously mentioned or assumed in
discourse”. They speciﬁcally refer to grammaticized discourse functions and
emphasize that they must satisfy the Extended Coherence Condition, which
means that these clitics as object markers need to “be linked to the semantic
predicate argument structure of the sentence in which they occur, either by
functionally or anaphorically binding an argument”. In what follows I show
the grammaticalization process based on a prototypical transitive clause in
(121) with a non-overt human Agent subject and an inanimate Patient object.
(121) Standard Spanish
Frío la cebolla.
fry-1SG DET.FSG cebolla.FSG
‘I fry the onion.’
I refer the reader also to Table 4.1 at the beginning of this chapter to place the
grammaticalization processes in the corresponding stage of the diﬀerential object
marking evolution.
The constituent structure and corresponding functional structure for (121) is
shown in Figure 4.1. There is no primary topic, the subject is incorporated into
the verb and the inanimate direct object is unmarked. This is a thetic sentence
(Lambrecht 1994), the unmarked direct object is in focus, introducing new infor-
mation. The phrase structure is annotated for grammatical relations.
Figure 4.1: constituent structure → functional structure
130 From syntax to information structure
Topic
The liberal clitic doubling example in (122) shows the topical object which corre-
lates with stage II in Table 4.1. Recall that liberal clitic doubling in River Plate
and Standard Limeño Spanish is triggered by speciﬁc and topical object argu-
ments as such. Speciﬁcity arises from the semantic features of the noun/
determiner phrase reinforced by secondary agreement with feature-agreeing
clitics identifying the marked referent. The statement in (122) could not serve as
an answer to the question “What did you fry?” But it could serve as answer to
“What are you frying?”
(122) River Plate, Limeño Standard Spanish [–anim][+spec] → [top]
Lai frío a la cebollai.
CL3FSG fry-1SG DOM DET.FSG cebolla.FSG
‘I fry the onion.’
Identiﬁability of referents is the basic requirement for topical objects. Agreeing
direct object clitics are agreement markers, just as the indirect object clitic is,
and both constructions are morphologically identical on constituent structure
as well as on functional structure.29 The agreeing clitic uniﬁes with the direct
object noun phrase, and displays topicality inside the ﬁnite clause building on
the “individuation-presuppositionality” traits of the marked direct object Torrego
(1999).
The fact that clitics can refer to a highly topical oblique in (123b) reveals the
close relationship that holds between clitics and topicality and is more evidence
against diﬀerential object marking and for an analysis of cooccurring referential
clitics as topicality markers instead.
(123) Standard Colombian Spanish
a. ¿Qué has hecho con esa cosa?
what have-2SG do-PARTIC with DEM.FSG thing.FSG
‘What have you done with this thing?’
b. ¿Qué la hiciste?
what CL3FSG do-PAST-2SG
‘Where did you put it?’
Secondary topic
Secondary topic marking in nonstandard contact varieties in (124) and (125)
represents the transitional (or potentially fossilized) stage III (a) shown in Table
29 See the corresponding structures in Figure (4.2) below.
Correlation of case marking and information structure 131
4.1 in this chapter. These constructions are fully representative of secondary
topic marking, with the featureless grammaticalized lo in (124) as a secondary
topic marker for the human/inanimate, deﬁnite, feminine direct object, and
the diﬀerential object marker a grammaticalized to object marker marking the
primary object in a monotransitive clause.
(124) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. Loi vi a las chicasj.
CL3SG see-PAST-1SG OM DET.FPL girl.FPL
‘I saw the girls.’
b. Lo frío a la cebollaj.
CL3SG fry-1SG OM DET.FSG onio.FSG
‘I fry the onion.’
In (124a) all discourse participants know who the object referents are and only
receive updated information about the secondary topic by the primary topic.
Double object agreement in (124b) as in head and dependent marking extended
to an inanimate argument exempliﬁes the close relationship of the primary topic
in deliberately marking the secondary topic which is the primary object. This
conﬁrms the close link between more marked objects showing more core gram-
matical functions, as demonstrated in the default alignment between informa-
tion structure and functional structure in Table 4.7.
The same secondary topic strategy can also apply to human (125a) and in-
animate (125b) objects with invariant la. However, this strategy is restricted to
highly aﬀected objects, repeating or updating existing information about them.
This could still be a borderline case of laísmo, as in these cases, the gender bear-
ing clitic is selected due to its existence in the feature pool of the primary topic
and due to it being more salient than invariant lo for several reasons. Note the
lack of (diﬀerential) object marking in (125b).
(125) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. Cuando ellai, lai cortaban a la
when PRO3FSG CL3FSG cut-PAST-3PL (D)OM DET.FSG
barriga para sacarlai al bebe.
stomach to take-out-INF-CL3FSG DOM-DET.MSG baby
‘When they cut her belly open to take out the baby.’
b. Entonces la lavo bien Ø la varita.
then CL3FSG wash-1SG well Ø DET.FSG stalk.FSG
‘Then I wash the little stalk well.’
132 From syntax to information structure
Grammaticality judgments based on prescriptive standard grammars judge ex-
amples (124) and (125) from non-standardized dialects as sharply ungrammatical,
however they seem to be pragmatically acceptable.
Independent justiﬁcation for these pragmatic structures comes from research
in Andean Spanish (Cerrón Palomino 1992, 1994, 1995, 2003) and Quechua (Weber
1989, 1993) in which secondary topic marking can be linked to contact with
Quechua, where the topic marker -qa is used as a pointing device to shift
speakers and events as shown by Weber (1989). Personal communications with
the Linguists from the Catholic University in Lima and from my control groups
of educated Limeño speakers interpret the strange marking as an apparently
necessary way to ensure the information exchange works. They all understand,
as an important reason for this, the oral basis and the accompanying gestures.
They also mentioned that they felt that the speaker seemed to have a special
relationship with the person, thing, event or activity (s)he talked about. I am
not aware of written evidence of non-standardized clitic doubling, but road and
nature park signs in the Peruvian Andes oﬀer written evidence of liberal clitic
doubling with agreeing clitics.
The non-standard examples in (124) can be related to topicalization strategies
whereby a preverbal non-agreeing non-referential clitic introduces the subsequent
new information in the post-verbal object determiner phrase as the secondary
topic. Such pragmatic marking strategies are typical of head-marking Amerindian
languages in contact with Limeño Spanish contact varieties.30 The topic marker
in the Limeño Spanish contact varieties data points to a highly salient object
undergoing an immediate action performed by the highly topical and agentive
speaker-subject (primary topic) and to be witnessed by the addressee. The
a-marked inanimate object in (124b) exempliﬁes nicely the typological restruc-
turing through the combination of the topic marker “naming the topic referent
in the discourse” and the new accusative a, or extended dative [DAT+] in
Alsina’s terms, expressing “a semantic relationship between a topic referent
and a predicate” (Lambrecht 1994: 335). This is another example of the use
of diﬀerential object marking to mark not only a speciﬁc object but also the
agentive subject at the same time (Bossong 2003; Dalrymple and Nikolaeva
2011). Using the system of Dowty (1991) and Alsina (1996b: 41), the events in
(124) are construed as a planned event with a volitional causer (subject) Proto-
Agent and a prototypical Proto-Patient undergoing some change of state.31
30 Further Quechua uses evidentiality markers to witness an activity.
31 Dowty (1991) assumes an event-dependent deﬁnition for thematic roles and not discourse-
dependent. In his system, non-discrete role types are based on prototypes, such as Proto-Agent
and Proto-Patient, each carrying a list of verbal entailments. Alternation is predicted if the
number of entailments for both become similar.
Correlation of case marking and information structure 133
The constituent structure and corresponding functional structure for (124b)
is shown in Figure 4.2. There would be no structural diﬀerence for the animate
example in (124a). It is to be noted though that the lexical entry for lo is not
maked for gender here and does not contribute to the object structure. It is
however compatible with it.
Figure 4.2: constituent structure → functional structure
Throughout this chapter, I have shown that the grammaticalization processes
aﬀecting the direct object clitic paradigm have led to a change from co-reference
to grammatical agreement. Non-standard dialects, including Limeño Spanish
contact varieties, do not show a single coherent object marking strategy but,
rather, an eclectic mix of several possibilities. Recall Table 4.3 in which the last
two lines refer to fronted and right dislocated direct objects, which Dalrymple
and Nikolaeva (2011: 109) analyze as syntactic topicalization, seen as “an addi-
tional clue to its topical status” as in the case of Persian râ-marked ﬂoating
topics. In the following, I present an example from Limeño Spanish contact
varieties.
The non a-marked inanimate deﬁnite and speciﬁc noun phrase in (126a) is a
case of topicalized left dislocation. The same constellation appears right dis-
located in (126b). In both cases the speaker ensures that the addressee follows
closely what she is doing, involving her in the process. The invariant clitic lo
functions here as secondary topic marker. This links secondary object marking
more strongly to clitics and focus to dependent-marked objects without head-
marking clitics.
134 From syntax to information structure
(126) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. La clara lo separo, sí las
DET.FSG egg white.FSG CL3SG separate-1SG yes DET.FPL
claras lo pongo a usted.
egg white.FPL CL3SG pass-1SG DOM you-FORMAL
‘The eggwhites, I’ll separate them, yes, I’ll separate them and pass
them on to you.’
b. Lo saco el pollo y lo
CL3SG take.out-1SG DET.MSG chicken.MSG and CL3SG
pongo el arroz.
put-1SG DET.MSG rice.MSG
‘I take out the chicken and put the rice (on the stove).’
The relationship between grammatical marking and information structural inter-
pretation allows for a plausible explanation of the variability and grammaticali-
zation processes found in the Limeño Spanish contact dialect data, speciﬁcally
with invariant lo. The speciﬁc laísmo strategy in direct object clitic doubling
constructions, as in examples (125) and (127), still exhibits remnants of semantic
marking in accordance with the semantic features feminine, speciﬁc and highly
aﬀected (cf. Table 4.3). The diﬀerence from aﬀectedness in the sense of Naess
(2004) here is the inclusion of the speaker’s intent to refer to a salient object.
The sentence is about the relationship between the primary topic (mi hija) in
the ﬁrst part of the sentence, which also is the secondary topic [la mando a mi
hija sola] in the second part, and the pronominal primary topic yo in the second
part. It is important to note that the pronominal topic is also the implicit subject
in the ﬁrst part. Relativisation can be part of secondary topic marking, as
Dalrymple and Nikolaevea (2011: 194) note “The topicality of a referent depends
on how the speaker construes the situation within the given communicative
context; features of topic-worthiness determine only the likelihood for the object
to be construed as topical.”
(127) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
Pero lo importante es que se
but CL3NSG important is-3SG that REFL.3SG
quede (mi hija), yo no
stay-SBJV-3SG my daughter PRO1SG not
[la mando a mi hija sola].
CL3FSG send-1SG DOM my daughter-FSG alone.FSG
‘But the important issue is that my daughter stays with me, I do not
send my daughter oﬀ alone.’
Correlation of case marking and information structure 135
The correlation of grammatical marking and object function in Spanish in Table
4.9 is very similar to the distribution Dalrymple and Nikolaeva (2011) present
for Ostyak and Chatino. Whereas the grammatically marked object allows for a
variety of thematic roles, the unmarked thematic object (OBJθ) is mainly restricted
to Themes and Patients.
Table 4.9: Marked and unmarked objects in Spanish
OBJ OBJθ
Casemarking/secondary agreement yes no
Information structure role topic nontopic
Primary object properties yes no
Thematic roles all except GOAL [–anim] theme/patient
In Limeño Spanish contact varieties, and even more so in dialects with extensive
leísmo, the thematic restrictions overlap in inanimate Theme/Goal and animate
Patient/Recipient, as will be discussed in chapter six. This leads to an extension
of the dative, as advocated by Alsina (1996b). This suggests that mapping of
non-subject arguments may also be governed by thematic roles, which makes it
very diﬃcult to tease out the relationship between information-structure roles
and grammatical marking.
Before turning to a formal generalisation of topic and secondary topic, I
would like to present some more evidence for the slight distinction between the
two, based on pronoun/topic-drop.
4.9 Anaphora and topic/object drop
Apart from secondary agreement, pro-drop is the second property both topics,
subject and object, have in common. There seems to be consensus that anaphoric
direct objects can be dropped under two conditions: (1) the referent must be
recoverable from the immediate discourse context, and (2) it has to be topical
to be encoded pronominally. Recently evoked highly salient information can be
identiﬁed even with missing arguments; less important information generally
requires a short phrase to ensure identiﬁability. The diﬀerence between topic
marking in anaphoric agreement and secondary topic marking in grammatical
agreement is particularly evident in relation to object drop, however this is to
be taken only as partial evidence for secondary topic marking. Languages vary
in relation to the conditions licensing object drop, yet discourse topics seem to
be generally the prime candidates.
136 From syntax to information structure
Spanish is a pro-drop language and pro-drop applies not only to subjects
but also to objects in the form of null arguments. Consider examples (128b) and
(128c), where object drop obtains for the topical object.
(128) All dialects (Standard Spanish)
a. ¿Ya se lo preguntaste?
already SE CL3MSG ask-PAST-2SG
‘Have you asked her/him/them about it?’
Colloquial Quiteño, Ecuador
b. ¿Ya lo preguntaste?
already CL3SG ask-PAST-2SG
‘Have you already asked about it?’
c. Limeño Spanish contact varieties, Andean Spanish
¿Ya Ø preguntaste (por ello)?
already Ø ask-PAST-2SG PREP DEM.NSG
‘Have you already asked about it?’
In variation Spanish object drop only obtains with deﬁnite objects that are
anaphorically recoverable, such as spurious se in the clitic cluster in (128a).
The direct object clitic lo in (128a) and (128b) is anaphoric agreement. Lo as a
propositional anaphor is one of the few remnant occurrences of the direct object
clitic in colloquial Quiteño (Suñer and Yepéz 1988). Both are topical, but I
suggest that the ﬁrst to drop, spurious se which refers to the indirect object,
can be correlated to the information structural role of topic, and the second to
drop, the direct object clitic lo, to secondary topic. This is because the informa-
tion conveyed by the direct object is much more important to the subject than
the information about the indirect object referent.
Again, we have two linguistic trigger factors32, contact with Quechua dialects
(or in the case of Paraguay with Guaraní (Choi 2000)), added to an inherently
variant and unstable clitic paradigm since early Latin, where null objects were
topical. The same pattern can be observed in Brazilian contact Portuguese
(Schwenter 2006; Vasconcellos Lopes and Cyrino 2005) and in Basque (Landa
1995). Another important factor is the occurrence of the phenomenon across
all social classes and in bilingual as well as monolingual speakers. Contact
varieties vary only in showing higher numbers of object drop, especially in
the intermediate stages. In light of these facts and the development in Limeño
32 Extralinguistic factors such as bilingualism and educational opportunities play an important
role as well. However, here I concentrate on the linguistic factors only.
Anaphora and topic/object drop 137
Spanish contact varieties, Vincent’s (2001) claim that the loss of agreeing clitics
in Quiteño and the subsequent merging of the direct object clitic and the indirect
object clitic leading to extensive leísmo may have given rise to null direct objects
does seem quite plausible.
4.9.1 Morphological blocking
If we assume that grammatical marking of objects not only depends on thematic
role but also, and certainly more so in Limeño Spanish contact varieties and
other contact varieties, on their information structure role, optionality of clitic
doubling with agreeing clitics as in liberal clitic doubling dialects and with
non-agreeing clitics, as in Limeño Spanish contact varieties, is no longer an
issue. As already discussed at length in chapter three, section four, in Lexical-
Functional Grammar, the non-agreeing secondary topic marker resists a unifying
analysis with the integrated function in the clause due to the loss of semantic
coreference violating the principle of functional uniqueness. More principles,
such as completeness and coherence, would be violated unless we assume the
two existential requirements in (129) and (130). Firstly, we assume the functional
uncertainty equation in (129) which allows identiﬁcation of the secondary topic
marker and the object. Also, to ensure that the principles of completeness and
coherence are upheld, we introduce an extended coherence condition that
allows for “looser constraints of discourse coherence” (Bresnan 2001c: 72) for
external or dislocated topic and focus functions.
(129) lo/la CL (TOP2↑)
Secondly, in (130) we can link Kayne’s Generalization to secondary topic and
primary object marking in contact Spanish. It stipulates that clitic doubling is
only possible when the doubled noun/determiner phrase argument has its own
case assigner (a preposition for example).
(130) a: P, (TOP↑)
The verb phrase-structure rules (VP) in (131) account for Limeño Spanish contact
varieties and Standard Spanish clitic doubling direct object constructions. Selec-
tion between topic and secondary topic here is covered by Morphological Block-
ing (Andrews 1990) in choosing the most compatible and speciﬁc candidate.
138 From syntax to information structure
(131) VP → V̅ DP
↑ = ↓ (↑OBJ) = ↓
V̅ → CL V
(↑TOP | TOP2) = ↓ ↑ = ↓
(↑OBJ) = ↓
Non-agreeing clitics have been analyzed as marking the secondary topic in
Limeño Spanish contact varieties showing core grammatical functions correlating
with the unrestricted object. Unmarked objects are correlated with the semanti-
cally restricted object or oblique, which are conﬁned to the focus position. This
distribution ﬁts the cross-linguistically tested default alignment described by
Dalrymple and Nikolaeva (2011: 166), shown in Table 4.7.
4.10 Summary
In this chapter I have proposed a three-stage model to show how the complex
interactions of semantic and pragmatic strategies alongside the parallel evolu-
tion of diﬀerential object marking and concurrent grammaticalization processes
aﬀecting clitics lead to linguistic change in Spanish object marking. I also linked
extended diﬀerential object marking and liberal clitic doubling by non-agreeing
clitics in Limeño Spanish contact varieties to information-structural marking,
adopting a theory of diﬀerential object marking that includes additional factors,
like information structure and diachronic evolution. In doing so, it is possible to
prove that the variability and innovations in Limeño Spanish contact varieties
are after all not a general breakdown of order, or one aﬀecting unstressed little
words, but a phenomenon aﬀecting speciﬁc kinds of clitic-related grammatical
structures under certain identiﬁable circumstances.
In a typology of diﬀerential object marking languages, Spanish in general,
and Limeño Spanish contact varieties expressly, pattern with type three lan-
guages, and within that group under subtype (a) (Dalrymple and Nikolaeva
2011: 215). In these languages, diﬀerential object marking is regulated by a mix
of referential semantic requirements and information structure role, allowing for
“apparent” optionality.
In linking grammatical marking to secondary topic marking I have identiﬁed
a new motivation of variable clitic systems in object marking in contact Spanish,
which to my knowledge has not been identiﬁed before. The lack of attention
to this solution has probably arisen for two reasons. Firstly, strict pronominal
constraints disallow direct object clitic doubling in Standard Spanish and hence
the issue did not even arise. Secondly, in dialects that allow liberal direct object
Summary 139
clitic doubling, the agreeing clitic is still a true clitic when analyzed as topical
and some semantic restrictions apply. The stage of liberal direct object clitic
doubling shows concurrent semantic and pragmatic marking. Almost purely
pragmatic marking strategies are applied in Limeño Spanish contact varieties
(and other contact dialects) that show secondary topic as the exponent of gram-
maticized clitics, which for these dialects are invariant lo and a speciﬁc kind of
laísmo. These dialects show practically no semantic restrictions and direct object
clitic doubling obtains with non-agreeing clitics as head-markers which start
to appear in non-standardized dialects at the crossroads of incomplete second
language acquisition and bilingualism (Montrul 2006). Noteworthy is that clitics
as head-markers in clitic doubling display a much more radical historical change
than anaphoric clitics.
The grammaticalization path suggested by Dalrymple and Nikolaeva involves
a gradual change of diﬀerential object marking from originally marking of
information-structure role to incorporate partially (or even completely in some
languages) the referential features of the object. As speciﬁc elements are naturally
topical, grammatical marking extended to other non-topical elements will mark
them as speciﬁc and therefore topical.
This is a plausible scenario for the spread of diﬀerential object marking from
stage I to stage II, where liberal clitic doubling dialects include marking of spe-
ciﬁc indeﬁnites. The extension of head-marking by clitic doubling to inanimate,
speciﬁc, deﬁnite direct object arguments in liberal clitic doubling dialects can be
considered as a marking process that singles out non-topical objects worthy of
incorporating into the communicative context as topic. In Spanish, these motiva-
tions and morphosyntactic structures already exist in indirect object arguments.
The extension of the direct object can be related to Harris and Campbell (1995)
where “observed extensions generalize to a natural class based on categories
already relevant to the sphere in which the rule applied before it was extended.”
140 From syntax to information structure
Chapter 5
Variation and continuity in time and space
In this chapter I aim to place the variability and innovations found in Limeño
Spanish contact varieties into the wider context of Spanish dialects and to com-
pare these to other relevant cross-linguistic data. The focus is on invariant lo,
leísmo/laísmo doubling, ﬂoating agreement and object drop in Limeño Spanish
contact varieties compared to data from Peninsular Spanish and a range of Latin
American dialects and bilingual varieties such as Basque Spanish. I also include
a comparison between clitic production in bilingual Paraguayan Spanish and
Brazilian Portuguese. Based on these examples I show that the extensive intra-
and interspeaker variation is not restricted to a speciﬁc geographic region in
Latin America, but can also be found to some extent in Peninsular Spanish,
motivated by similar factors as in Limeño Spanish contact dialects. Speciﬁcally,
the Spanish leísmo strategy ﬁnds its counterpart in Peninsular Spanish, in
leísmo by adstratum, that is, in contact with languages that do not have gender
distinction such as Basque in this particular case. These facts provide strong
motivation for the reanalysis hypothesis and link the variability to more general
typological concerns. I argue that individual variation reﬂects dialect variation,
and that both represent samples of possible grammars within the same typolog-
ical space (Bresnan, Deo and Sharma 2007: 302). Dependent on environmental
factors, inherent variability may be constrained by categorical (prescriptive)
grammar or lead through variable grammars to language change. An example
for completed change would be the single dative case system due to extensive
leísmo in Ecuador and Paraguay (Palacios 2000; Vincent 2001).
5.1 Agreement in time and space
Agreement is multidimensional and, like any interface phenomenon, prone to
changes. For Spanish object-verb agreement, I adopt the terms anaphoric and
grammatical agreement from Bresnan and Mchombo’s (1987) analysis of verbal
agreement in Chicheŵa because this theory of grammatical functions captures
the integration of the changing properties of argument functions in terms of the
core argument functions subject and object and the discourse functions topic
and focus. Anaphoric agreement is part of discourse structure; it is pronoun
antecedent agreement with referentially anchored indices. Grammatical agree-
ment is object marking, verbal agreement in terms of clitic doubling which in-
volves either an indirect or a direct object clitic, clitics as head-markers and a
casemarker a as dependent marking. For standard varieties of Spanish this can
DOI 10.1515/9781614514213-005
be deﬁned in terms of feature agreement in grammatical relations, object or
sentence anaphora, and clitic doubling. Non-standard dialects, however, show
erosion and simpliﬁcation of the clitic paradigm and agreement mismatches
can be correlated with information structure. Marked objects in Limeño Spanish
contact varieties are pragmatically marked, i.e., based on topic worthiness
(Dalrymple and Nikolaeva 2011) and double actant marking (Bossong 2003).
Grammatical agreement is object marking by the diﬀerential object marker a
and can be linked to secondary topic marking with the invariant clitic lo, and,
also to some extent with the gender-speciﬁc la under Spanish laísmo. Anaphoric
agreement displays a scalar system of covariation of le/lo followed by occasional
la with complete loss of the latter in most varieties spoken by bilingual speakers.
5.1.1 Peninsular Spanish leísmo, loísmo, laísmo
As shown in chapter one, Peninsular Spanish exhibits far greater variability than
Latin American Spanish, which shows eﬀects of early dialect levelling. Never-
theless, the variability we ﬁnd in the clitic system in Limeño Spanish contact
varieties must be judged against the already existing variability in Peninsular
Spanish. Fernández Ordóñez (2007, 2009, 2012) undertook a large-scale sociolin-
guistic study of recorded rural speech, known as COSER (Corpus Oral y Sonoro
del Español Rural)1. The study identiﬁed zones of transition where both systems,
the etymological and leísmo, compete with the isoglosses meeting in Madrid.
The following summarizes the picture of the Peninsular Spanish variability which
emerged:
1. The phenomenon of leísmo, depending on speciﬁc regions, must be separated
from leísmo, laísmo and loísmo as a referential system.
2. Another independent phenomenon, leísmo by adstratum, that is, in contact
with languages that do not have gender distinction, must also be treated
separately.
3. The written and spoken pronominal use of each region should be analyzed
from a double perspective: the actual use compared with the educated
“standard” use.
Important ﬁndings were that the diﬃculty of the diﬀusion and maintenance of
the etymological system as the imposed grammatical norm, not only stems from
1 Oral corpus of rural Spanish – available online at www.uam/es.coser.
142 Variation and continuity in time and space
acquisition of a lexical or phonological form, but seems to lie in a profound
restructuring of the pronominal reference through grammaticalization processes.
The analysis of the Peninsular Spanish variability and most importantly rural
variation data from the COSER corpus present crucial supporting evidence for
the arguments for historical change we are seeing in the innovation data from
Limeño Spanish contact varieties.
5.1.2 Limeño Spanish contact varieties
Limeño Spanish contact varieties show a hybrid clitic system with anaphoric
clitics used in a scalar system, and the reduced pronominal form lo grammati-
cized to a secondary topic marker in grammatical agreement and topic marker
in anaphoric agreement.
To put the innovations in context, it is essential to emphasise that they are
not restricted to Limeño Spanish contact varieties but have been extensively
documented for many Spanish dialect areas.2 As noted above, very similar if
not the same variability occurs in Peninsular Spanish, speciﬁcally in rural speech
in areas where Spanish is in contact with Basque (Fernández Ordóñez 2007,
2009, 2012). For Latin American Spanish, it has been described for Paraguayan
Spanish, and extending to north-eastern Argentina (de Granda 1988; Palacios
2000), for Mexican contact varieties (Company 2003) and elsewhere in Latin
American Spanish, as presented in this book. Cerrón Palomino (1992) traced the
phenomenon back to seventeenth century texts written by bilingual Amerindians.
The variability in grammatical argument marking in Limeño Spanish contact
varieties – produced by a scalar system of head-marking grammaticalized clitics
and dependent-marking by extended diﬀerential object marking, as in the exam-
ples (132) and (133) – has been identiﬁed through ﬁeldwork.3 The apparent
random variation is based on diachronic processes and variability embedded in
the extra linguistic factors, as described in chapter one. The discourse example
in (132), labelled with the innovations for each utterance, shows the combina-
tion of variable structures occurring in a short discourse within one context; no
sentences have been added or omitted. The main topic is la yuca, a singular,
feminine, inanimate object in anaphoric and grammatical agreement.
2 See chapter one for references and sociolinguistc settings.
3 The topics of the data (a lot of cooking involved) reﬂect some of the conversational strategies
and actions used to elicit the relevant transitivity and double actant marking.
Agreement in time and space 143
(132) Gender-speciﬁc la in anaphora
a. ¿Usted la pela?
you.FORMAL CL3FSG peel-3SG
‘Do you peel it?’
Object drop and extension of DOM to inanimates
b. A la yuca sí Ø pelo.
DOM DET.FSG cassava.FSG yes Ø peel-1SG
‘The cassava, yes I peel (it).’
Extension of DOM to inanimates, no DOM in the second part
c. Lavo a la yuca, pelo la yuca
wash-1SG DOM DET.FSG cassava peel-1SG DET.FSG cassava
‘I wash the cassava, I peel the cassava,’
Invariant lo in anaphoric agreement
d. lo lavo, lo hago en trozos y lo sancocho.
CL3 wash-1SG CL3 cut-1SG PREP pieces and CL3 stew-1SG
‘I wash it, cut it into pieces and stew it.’
Latin American type leísmo and extensión of DOM
e. Sí, hay que pelarle a la yuca.
yes must that peel-INF.CL3SG DOM DET.FSG cassava.FSG
‘Yes, one must peel the cassava.’
Invariant lo clitic doubling of inanimate feminine object with DOM
f. ¿Lo sancocho a la yuca?
CL3 stew-1SG DOM DET.FSG cassava.FSG
‘Do I stew the cassava?’
The short discourse in (132) shows co-occurrence of feature-agreeing and non-
agreeing clitics creating a complex picture. I will now proceed to discuss the
special characteristics exempliﬁed in (132) starting with invariant lo in anaphoric
and grammatical agreement, followed by leísmo/laísmo doubling, ﬂoating agree-
ment and ﬁnally object drop within the wider Spanish dialectal and bilingual
cross-linguistic picture.
5.1.3 Invariant lo
In Limeño Spanish contact varieties, convergence of two direct object clitic
doubling strategies, both involving the singular, masculine direct object clitic
lo, adds more complexity to the already quite confusing picture. In the causative
144 Variation and continuity in time and space
example in (133a) we ﬁnd coexistence of liberal direct object clitic doubling with
referential clitics, as in standard Lima Spanish and River Plate, for example
where we would also ﬁnd la referring to a feminine object. Invariant lo doubling
on the other hand, is not constrained by animacy and can occur with diﬀerential
object marking or without it, as in (133b).
(133) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. Y loi obligó así a su hijoi . . .
and CL3MSG make-PAST-3SG so DOM POSS son.MSG
‘And thus (s)he forced her/his son to. . .’
b. Lo he licuado un poquito de agua.
CL3 have-1SG mixed-PARTIC INDEF.MSG little of agua
‘I blended a little water.’
Coexistence and convergence of these grammaticalized object marking strategies
in Limeño Spanish contact varieties lead to a complex picture, which standard
speakers perceive as ungrammatical, because the visibility of any pattern or
strategy is at ﬁrst obstructed. However, the co-occurring strategies can be teased
apart by linking grammaticalization processes to information structure roles.
In sentences, as in (133a), clitics are still agreement markers replicating the
semantic features person, gender and number of the referential, topical, human,
determiner phrase object. Therefore, the gloss still contains the M(asculine) gender
and number features. In (133b), and, also in (134) below, the masculine third person
clitic has lost its former agreement function and shows, like ﬁrst and second
person clitics, only person. Consequently, the gloss shows no gender, but morpho-
logical category and person. Invariant lo in doubling with or without diﬀerential
object marking carries the information structural role of secondary topic marker
and can be analyzed as an extension of the neuter. The diﬀerence between the
feature-specifying clitic as an agreement marker as in (133a) and invariant lo in
(133b) and (134) below is the extension of clitic doubling to deﬁnite inanimate
objects.
In Limeño Spanish contact varieties direct object clitic doubling obtains
with invariant lo both with and without extended diﬀerential object marking for
inanimate objects with and without diﬀerential object marking (134). Invariant lo
occurs without the diﬀerential object marker a (134a), accidentally appearing to
agree with the features of the referential inanimate object (134b), and as proper
secondary topic marker with a-marking in (134c). The prototypical transitive
clauses show the strong relationship between the agentive subject and inanimate
patient object, marking their information structure role as primary topic and
Agreement in time and space 145
secondary topic, respectively, applying double actant marking (Bossong 2003).
This also shows invariant lo as a transitiviser.
(134) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. Y lo mezclé toda la cebolla.
and CL3 mix-PAST-1SG all.FSG DET.FSG onion.FSG
‘And I mixed all the onion.’
b. Y lo puse el ají rojo.
and CL3 add-PAST-1SG DET.MSG chili.MSG red.MSG
‘And I added the red chili.’
c. Lo sancocho a la yuca.
CL3 boil-1SG DOM DET.FSG cassava.FSG
‘I boil the cassava.’
Invariant lo or la does not convey number. The loss of feature agreement triggered
a lack of individuation of the referential object which in turn paved the way for
such forms to become object markers. The indirect object marker le exhibits a
parallel situation due to increasing loss of number already manifest in written
language. Reanalysis processes aﬀect clitic forms diﬀerentially. Clitics in gram-
matical agreement are more aﬀected and show more advanced stages of change
than clitics in anaphoric agreement.
This distinction is illustrated in examples (135) to (137) below, in the short
discourse within a single context. In Limeño Spanish contact varieties the gender
agreeing direct object clitic la in (135a) has been replaced by a grammaticalized
clitic with the information structure role as secondary topic. The strong pronoun
in (135b) is not aﬀected by any change – it always displays overt gender and
number.
(135) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. Lo / *la vi a las chicasi.
CL3 / *CL3FPL see-PAST-1SG DOM DET.FPL girls.FPL
‘I saw the girls.’
b. Allí estaban ellasi.
there are-PAST-3PL PRO3FPL
‘There they were.’
The non-agreeing anaphoric direct object clitic los in (136) covaries with the
agreeing clitic las in a typical case of synchronic variation of the gender feature,
but number is still present.
146 Variation and continuity in time and space
(136) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
Los chicos losj / lasi ignoraban.
DET.MSG boy.MPL CL3MPL / CL3FPL ignore-PAST-3PL
‘The boys ignored them.’
The expectation from example (135a), that in utterances with lo as a secondary
topic marker number must also be lost, is borne out in (137). In accordance with
Bresnan (2001a: 134)4 invariant lo, when analyzed as secondary topic, has only a
single, “marked” value where topic is a privative feature. Greenberg (1966: 61)
also noted that featurally unmarked forms ‘can act as a surrogate for the entire
category’.
(137) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
Y en la mañana no lo vi a ellas.
and in the morning not CL3 see-PAST-1SG DOM PRO3FPL
‘And in the morning, I did not see them.’
These short discourse examples show that despite feature reduction, anaphoric
recoverability seems to obtain for communicative purposes, which is the crucial
point particularly in spoken language. In Lexical-Functional Grammar terms,
failure of co-indexing produces ungrammatical results by failing the test for
completeness and coherence.
One last point must be made before moving on to the wider dialectal and
cross-linguistic picture, concerning gender preservation. Dislocated structures
seem to preferentially attract feature agreement, as demonstrated in (138). In
this impersonal passive utterance, the left dislocated pronominal indirect object
is not a-marked but taken up by a resumptive direct object clitic in the main
clause. The sole inanimate goal object a la barriga of the transitive verb is
a-marked, promoting it to secondary topic. Note the gender agreement in the
anaphoric clitic.5 The external topic function (the primary topic here) is anaphori-
cally linked to an integrated function in the clause; the extended coherence
condition is met. In this speciﬁc case, the pronominal dislocated topic ella
shares not only the functional-structure with the internal function, the direct
object clitic la, but also the referential index of the discourse function; hence
functional uniqueness is observed (Bresnan 2001b: 63).
4 As described in section 4.2 for the grammaticalization path of clitics.
5 There is synchronic variation of agreeing and non-agreeing clitics in anaphora but notable
agreement in highly aﬀected themes in continuing topics.
Agreement in time and space 147
(138) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
Cuando Ø ellai, lai cortaban a la barriga
when DOM PRO3FPL CL3FSG cut-PAST-3PL DOM DET.FSG stomach
para sacarlai al bebe.
for take.out-3SG.CL3FSG DOM.DETMSG baby
‘When they cut her belly open to take out the baby.’
In (138) the feature agreeing anaphoric pronoun la continues the relevance of
the primary topic within the text. Zubizarreta (1998) gives a minimalist account
which analyzes constructions such as those in (138) as hanging topics which are
not linked to any element in the main clause and are base-generated at the left
periphery. Hanging topics are diﬀerent from preposed constructions as they shift
the attention to a new topic taken up by a resumptive pronoun (clitic) in the
matrix clause.
All Limeño Spanish contact varieties examples examined so far are repre-
sentative of invariant lo which can be deﬁned as an extension of the neuter.6
Moving now to examples from other dialects, the ﬁrst (139) is from rural speech
in speciﬁc areas within Peninsular Spanish. It shows the unmarked form lo as
anaphor to a preposed feminine inanimate direct object. Fernández Ordóñez’s
analysis calls unmarked lo “el neutro de materia” (the thing/the mass neuter)
with appearance of the unmarked form restricted to adjectives and pronominals;
demonstratives and determiners retain the agreement features.7
(139) Turiso, Alava (Fernández Ordóñez 2007: 22)
Esa semilla había que machacarlo y limpiarlo.
DEM.FSG seed have-3SG to pound-INF.CL3 and clean-INF.CL3
‘That seed had to be pounded and cleaned.’
There is no diﬀerence between the variability found in COSER and Limeño Spanish
contact varieties, (139) could be part of either of them.
6 Also called lo redundante, ambiguo (Godenzzi 1986), or falsa pronominalización or el otro lo
(the other lo) (Cerrón Palomino (1992, 2003); Granda (2001)), lo aspectual (Merma Molina 2004:
197), or archmorpheme lo (Klee and Caravedo 2005), and for Peninsular Spanish el neutro de
materia (the thing/the mass neuter) (Fernández Ordóñez 2007).
7 As mentioned by Fernández Ordóñez (2007: 1), this term goes back to a study of El habla de
Cabranes (The language of Cabranes) from 1944, in which the author, María Josefa Canellada
found feature discordance in adjectives accompanying non-count nouns like bread, wine, and
wool. These should show feature agreeing determiners and demonstratives but non-agreeing
adjectives and pronominals.
148 Variation and continuity in time and space
We return now to Peru and to Andean Spanish which has its roots in colonial
Spanish and contact with Amerindian languages. Based on a text from the
sixteenth century, written by a bilingual Indian sculptor known as Francisco
Tito Yupanqui, Cerrón Palomino (2003: 155) distinguishes between three mor-
phosyntactic characteristics in early Peruvian Andean Spanish. The threefold
distinction is (i) lack of gender agreement in (140a) (this also extends to number),
(ii) invariant lo for dative and accusative in (140b), and (iii) false pronominaliza-
tion (locative doubling) in (140c).
(140) Andean Spanish (Cerrón Palomino 2003: 168–170)
a. El Santa Vergen.
DET.MSG holy virgin.FSG
‘The Holy Virgin.’
b. No lo faltava sino ponerlo con oro.
not CL3 miss-PAST-3SG but put-INF.CL3 with gold.MSG
‘He only needed to cover it with gold.’
c. Lo llegaron a este pueblo.
CL3N arrive-PAST-3PL LOC DEM.MSG village.MSG
‘They arrived at this village.’
Cerrón Palomino (2003: 157) restricts the use of the term false pronominaliza-
tion (140c) to constructions with intransitive verbs, such as the copular verbs
ser/estar, comparatives like parecer, verbs of movement venir, salir, ir, entrar,
llegar, etc., and reír.
A more recent example from Andean Spanish (141) shows a feminine, in-
animate direct object clitic doubled by invariant lo.
(141) Andean Spanish, Peru (Luján 1987: 115)
Se lo llevó una caja.
SE CL3 take-PAST-3SG INDEF.FSG box.FSG
‘S/he took a box.’
Invariant lo constructions, disregarding feature agreement, are not restricted to
Peninsular Spanish and Peruvian varieties but can be found in other varieties
across Latin American Spanish, as shown in the next examples (142) to (144).8
8 Examples (132a), (133) and (134) are from Lipski (1994); the primary references are cited for
reasons of completeness.
Agreement in time and space 149
In (142) the featureless form lo doubles a feminine, human a-marked object
in (142a) and a feminine inanimate in (142b). Note the diﬀerence in object mark-
ing: the inanimate does not show extended diﬀerential object marking but an
overt pronominal subject, which shows the strong relationship between the
subject as the primary topic and the object as the secondary topic (double actant
marking as in Bossong 2003).
(142) Argentina (Rojas 1980: 83)
a. Lo quiere mucho a su hijita.
CL3 love-3SG much DOM POSS daughter.DIMIN.FSG
‘S/he loves her/his daughter very much.’
Bolivia (Stratford 1989: 119)
b. Tú lo tienes la dirección.
you CL3 have-2SG DET.FSG address.FSG
‘You have the address.’
Example (143) is representative of inanimate direct object clitic doubling with
invariant lo and without diﬀerential object marking.
(143) Mexico (Francis Soriano 1960: 94)
Lo arreglé la casita.
CL3 clean-PAST-1SG DET.FSG house.DIMIN.FSG
‘I cleaned the little house.’
The geographical extension of invariant lo doubling in the examples from
Argentina, Bolivia and Mexico corroborates my claim that this is part of a wider
phenomenon indicative of a language change in progress.
Finally, the examples in (144) are false pronominalizations (Cerrón Palomino
2003). Here, invariant lo could be analyzed as an expletive. In Alsina (1996b: 72)
expletives are deﬁned as “grammatical functions licensed by semantically
empty categories”. The expletive lo needs to “agree” with a co-occurring clausal
complement, as required by its lexical entries. As both conditions seem to be
fulﬁlled, lo in these examples could be considered an expletive.9
9 This can be compared to Spanish weak deﬁnite articles as noted in Ticio (2005: 275) citing
Torrego (1987) and referring to its atypical uses.
150 Variation and continuity in time and space
(144) Nicaragua (Ykaza Tigerino 1980: 6)
a. Lo hay una mata de lirios.
CL3 is-IMPERS INDEF.FSG plant.FSG of lilies
‘There is a lily (plant).’
Mexico (Suárez 1979: 180)
b. No te lo invito a sentarte
not CL2SG CL3 invite-1SG PREP sit-INF.CL2SG
porque es tarde.
because is-3SG late
‘I don’t invite you to sit down because it is already late.’
Clitic clusters with a redundant lo as in (145) have a perfective aspectual value
and can be calques from the regressive Quechua suﬃx -pu, or from the benefac-
tive Aymara suﬃx -rapi (Calvo Pérez 2008: 198).
(145) Honduras (Lipski 1994: 272)
Se lo fue de viaje.
SE CL3 leave-PAST-3SG PREP travel
‘(S)he went on a trip.’
Invariant lo referring to a sentential complement in (146a) has been reported
for northern and central Latin American regions such as Colombia, Honduras,
Nicaragua and Mexico (Zagona 2002: 69; Camacho 1999). It looks like an abbre-
viated form of the full standard version in (146b) with anaphoric lo que.
(146) Nicaragua (Lipski 1994: 292)
a. Lo temo que se muera.
CL3 fear-1SG that REFL.3SG die-SUBJUNC.3SG
‘I’m afraid that (s)he will die.’
Standard Spanish
b. Lo que temo es que se muera.
CL3NSG that fear-1SG is-3SG that REFL.3SG die-SBJV-3SG
‘What I fear is that (s)he may die.’
Lo in cataphoric reference as in this example, and in anaphoric reference to
sentential complements or full propositions, retains the deﬁniteness feature but
has lost all other referential features.10 Feature loss here is generally considered
10 See the discussion in section 2.4.2 on determiner cliticization and the diﬀerence in projectivity
of direct object clitics as determiners.
Agreement in time and space 151
a case of paradigm simpliﬁcation or desemanticization. Stripped of the con-
straints number and gender, the resulting unmarked form becomes versatile
and mobile. In Spanish, the neuter form lo is the best candidate as it subsumes
masculine, neuter and feminine gender, as in coordination for example, thus
becoming the unmarked form that can “act as a surrogate for the entire
category” Greenberg (1966: 61) and Bresnan (2001a). The unmarked form lo is
used as sole direct object clitic across gender boundaries and frequently also in
pseudo-reﬂexive (anticausative) constructions and as ethical dative, as has also
been found by Lorenzino (2003: 57).
The list of examples cited is not exhaustive but shows that invariant lo is not
restricted to a speciﬁc geographic region or dependent on extra-linguistic factors
alone. Also, as Cerrón Palomino (2003: 150) points out, that apart from random
variation which does exist as well, these variations are by no means random
but seem to be systematically motivated. Under closer scrutiny the apparently
random variation takes shape in the form of distinct grammatical relations and
functions, as will be shown in the following sections.
Whereas in Peninsular Spanish agreement of third person object clitics is
upheld with minor exceptions, in rural Spanish in Basque regions, due to a com-
parable contact situation,11 the emergence of non-agreeing third person clitics is
found as it is in the corresponding American Spanish contact situations despite
normative educational eﬀorts in the former.
5.2 Leísmo/laísmo doubling
The three distinct but interrelated phenomena leísmo, laísmo and loísmo, are
interpreted in Fernández Ordóñez (1999: 1321) as a simpliﬁcation of the pronominal
paradigm by eliminating case in preference of gender. The third person object
pronoun paradigm evolved from demonstratives, and as such they are the only
object pronouns to retain both features – case and gender. All other person
pronouns keep their case distinctions. However, this is not the only possible
explanation. Another possible reason could be that Spanish distinguishes
between personal and nonperson arguments. Recall the close relationship
between demonstratives and third person pronouns (section 2.3), where I identi-
ﬁed the direct object clitics lo and la in determiner cliticization (Ormazabal and
Romero 2007: 341) as having some projecting capacity, as opposed to all others
11 The contact languages Basque in Spain and the Amerindian languages Quechua and Aymara
in Peru are typologically similar. See Landa (1995) and Saltarelli (1988) for Basque and for rural
Spanish the COSER corpus.
152 Variation and continuity in time and space
together having none at all based on a modiﬁed projection/phonological depen-
dence matrix in Table 2.9. Most importantly, the masculine lo still carries the
neuter gender in such constructions.
With the projecting capacity, the question arises whether this close relation-
ship is seen on argument structure or on discourse/information structure. The
description of the grammaticalization path of demonstratives in the hierarchy
in (147) (Diessel 1999: 120) points to a syntactic event primarily in grammatical
agreement.
(147) demonstrative pronoun > third person pronoun > clitic pronoun >
verb agreement
Inclining more toward an explanation in discourse functions, Zulaica (2007: 261)
suggests that “demonstrative anaphora still retain a deictic component that
is presuppositional in nature”. The pointing eﬀect of such an anaphor in an
utterance would then trigger a series of responses from the addressee, leading
him to look for a familiar, abstract and identiﬁable discourse referent in the
immediate context.
In leísmo constructions the relationship between the usage of le for mascu-
line and feminine direct objects is striking. In a study of Madrid Spanish, Quilis
(1985) found that le as a direct object was used in roughly twenty-ﬁve percent of
cases for masculine, as opposed to less than two percent for feminine objects. In
Northern Spain’s leísta dialect areas le only replaces animate arguments; in
some areas, this is even restricted to male human objects. Consider the classic
leísta-doubling examples in monotransitive constructions in (148), which is
originally from Nevins (2007: 280).
(148) Peninsular Spanish leísmo
a. Le / *lo mataron a Pedro.
CL3SG / *CL3MSG kill-PAST-3PL DOM Peter
‘They killed Peter.’
b. Le / *lo vio al profesor.
CL3SG / *CL3MSG see-PAST-3SG DOM-DET.MSG professor.MSG
‘I saw the professor yesterday.’
Examples (148) are not ambiguous, however constructions with the verb decir
(to say, tell) are. Consider the meaning diﬀerences in (149) and the change in
the valency of the verb. The clitic doubling construction in (149a), with the doubled
argument present or recoverable from the immediately preceding discourse, is
Leísmo/laísmo doubling 153
not ambiguous. On the other hand, without the doubled argument, as in (149b),
it is ambiguous with a tendency to propositional (neuter) interpretation.
(149) Standard Spanish
a. Le digo (a mi amigo).
CL3SG tell-1SG DAT POSS friend.MSG
‘I tell him (my friend).’
b. Lo digo.
CL3MSG say-1SG
‘I say it.’
Moreover, it is well known that in Italian and Western Romance the dative has
long been used to mark the causee of a transitive clause as in (150).
(150) Standard Spanish
a. Le hizo comer el cuy.
CL3SG make-PAST-3SG eat-INF DET.MSG guinea pig.MSG
‘(S)He made him (rarely her) eat the guinea pig.’
b. Lo hizo comer el cuy.
CL3MSG make-PAST-3SG eat-INF DET.MSG guinea pig.MSG
‘(S)He made him eat the guinea pig.’
From this follows that leísmo strategies diﬀer in relation to animacy and case.
Leísmo can already be found in medieval texts, though it did not play a major
role in Andalusian Spanish. It supposedly did not make it into the Latin
American Spanish repertoire, yet it can be found in Standard Lima Spanish.
Leísmo in the Lima Spanish in (151a) is ambiguous as to the grammatical
function. River Plate in (151b) only shows unambiguously marked direct objects.
Note that the exchange of le for lo triggers a preference for case over gender
marking.
(151) Leísmo, Lima Spanish
a. Les invitaron a Beto y a Carlos nomás.
CL3PL invite-PAST-3PL DOM Beto and DOM Carlos only
‘They only invited Beto and Carlos.’
Liberal clitic doubling River Plate
b. Los invitaron a Beto y a Carlos nomás.
CL3MPL invite-PAST-3PL DOM Beto and DOM Carlos only
‘They only invited Beto and Carlos.’
154 Variation and continuity in time and space
For direct object clitic doubling the argument must be [+speciﬁc]; this holds in
Standard Spanish, in River Plate and Lima Spanish [topic] but not in Limeño
Spanish contact varieties, where pragmatic strategies override semantic strategies.
Apart from the diﬀerence between Peninsular Spanish contact and Latin
American contact leísmo strategies, the only other instance of variability of the
dative paradigm is number incongruence. This is probably the only part of the
overall variability that has been documented in written form in newspapers
and in literature. Example (152), taken from a Limeño newspaper article, shows
this number agreement mismatch.
(152) La República 18.02.2006
Le dijo a los comerciantes y ocasionales
CL3SG say-PAST-3SG DOM DET.MPL sellers and occasional
compradores que su gobierno respaldará . . .
buyers that POSS government back-up-FUT-3SG . . .
‘(S)He told the sellers and occasional buyers that the government will
back-up . . .’
Example (153a) from a bilingual contact speaker closer to Quechua than to
Spanish shows an indirect object clitic with non-agreeing number and gender.
It is a typical contact variant of leísta doubling, where leísmo doubling extends
to inanimates. In the Standard Spanish example (153b) we ﬁnd, as expected, a
direct object clitic agreeing in number and gender as well as a more sophisti-
cated lexical choice for the second part of the sentence.
(153) Andean Spanish (Mayer-FW)
a. Algunas cosas le entiendo y algunas no.
some.FPL thing.FPL CL3SG understand-1SG and others not
‘Some things I understand them and others not.’
Standard Spanish
b. Algunas cosas las entiendo y otras no.
some.FPL thing.FPL CL3FPL understand-1SG and others not
‘Some things I understand them and others not.’
In the ﬁeldwork data in (153a) there is no pause after the preposed argument,
therefore I do not consider it to be a left dislocated argument. This is diﬀerent
from example (154), where the pause indicates a dislocated argument.
Leísmo/laísmo doubling 155
In Santiago del Estero, a Spanish-Quechua contact region in Argentina,
doubling does not obtain, as exempliﬁed in (154).12 The comma after the pre-
posed argument indicates that it is a left dislocated argument.
(154) Santiago del Estero, Argentina (Lorenzino 2003: 55)
Algunas cositas entiendo, otras cositas no.
QUANT.FPL thing.FPL understand-1SG other.FPL things.FPL not
‘Some little things I understand, others not.’
Whereas in Peninsular leísmo, also treated in the literature as leísmo personal
(personal leísmo), the case distinction is restricted to animate arguments, in
American Spanish leísmo the case distinction has collapsed in favour of the
dative as in Paraguayan Spanish and Ecuadorian Spanish (Suñer and Yépez
1988). The most important diﬀerence lies in the syntax of direct object doubling,
which remains unchanged in Peninsular Standard and leísta Spanish, but obtains
even with extending diﬀerential object marking to inanimates in contact Spanish
as will be shown in the next subsection.
5.2.1 The dative-accusative alternation in contact Spanish
The focus here is on the double strategy which Limeño Spanish contact varieties
apply to mark the primary object in monotransitives: (i) extended diﬀerential
object marking and leísmo doubling, and (ii) extended diﬀerential object mark-
ing and loísmo and, to a lesser extent laísmo, doubling.
There are two competing theories regarding non-standardized extended
diﬀerential object marking (discussed in section 3.1). In brief, while Spanish
philologists and the Real Academia (Torrego 1999: 1802) view the accusative as
an extension of the dative, Givón (1997) and Bossong (1991, 2003) analyze the
phenomenon as the birth of a new accusative marker based on extensive cross-
linguistic evidence. Limeño Spanish contact varieties show evidence for both
theories with covariation of Latin American leísmo and loísmo doubling, and to
a lesser extent laísmo doubling as demonstrated below.
In Standard Spanish (155a) inanimate direct objects cannot be doubled or
a-marked. Liberal clitic doubling dialects extend direct object clitic doubling to
inanimates with agreeing clitics and are subject to Kayne’s Generalization, e.g.
with diﬀerential object marking. Lima Spanish data in (155b) conﬁrm this
(Mayer 2003, 2006; Sánchez 2005; Sánchez and Zdrojewski 2014).
12 It is a welcome coincidence that an identical sentence came up in Lorenzino’s ﬁeldwork
data.
156 Variation and continuity in time and space
(155) Standard Spanish
a. Frío la cebolla.
fry-1SG DET.FSG onion.FSG
‘I fry the onion.’
River Plate Spanish, Lima Spanish
b. Lai frio a la cebollai.
CL3FSG fry-1SG DOM DET.FSG onion.FSG
‘I fry the onion.’
Consider the example (156) from River Plate Spanish, the original liberal direct
object clitic doubling dialect.
(156) River Plate Spanish (Fernández Soriano 1999: 1251)
¿Tú la friegas a la cocina?
PRO2SG CL3FSG scrub-2SG DOM DET.FSG stove.FSG
‘Do you scrub the stove?’
In that particular dialect and also in Lima Spanish and Limeño Spanish contact
varieties the inanimate direct object could also be replaced by a strong pronoun
as in (157).13
(157) Lima Spanish, River Plate and Limeño Spanish contact varieties
¿Tú la friegas a ella?
PRO2SG CL3FSG scrub-2SG DOM PRO3FSG
‘Do you scrub it (the stove)?’
At least for (and perhaps restricted to) liberal direct object clitic doubling dialects,
strong pronouns do not show animacy restrictions, but they may be constrained
to prepositional objects as mentioned in Andrews (1990: 541). This would then
be a point in favour of the formative a as the exponent of the prepositional
accusative.
In Limeño Spanish contact varieties topical objects are marked by either
invariant lo coexisting with a leísmo strategy peculiar to contact Spanish. Direct
object clitic doubling in (158) only occurs with invariant lo in its function as a
secondary topic marker.14 Kayne’s Generalization is mostly observed.
13 This is actual ﬁeldwork data and one of several utterances of that kind.
14 Note that the referential feminine la did not occur in these contexts in my non-standardized
Limeño Spanish contact varieties data.
Leísmo/laísmo doubling 157
(158) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
Lo / *lai frío a la cebollai.
CL3 / *CL3FSG fry-1SG DOM DET.FSG onion.FSG
‘I fry the onion.’
The second strategy is the contact leísmo in (159) where the direct object clitic
is replaced with an invariant le and can thus be doubled and a-marked. This
construction occurs preferentially in bilingual varieties in contact with Quechua
or other non-gender-marking languages.
(159) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
Pero ya no lei frío a la yucai.
but again not CL3 fry-1SG DOM DET.FSG yuca.FSG
‘But I do not fry the cassava again.’
In clitic-doubled constructions showing co-variation of lo/le as above in (158)
and (159), the gender-bearing referential clitic la never appears.
In standard varieties of Peninsular Spanish and Latin American Spanish,
leísmo clitic doubled constructions with transitive verbs and inanimate patient
arguments as in (159) above are considered ungrammatical. Whereas in Standard
Spanish only the non-doubled clause in (160a) would be possible, liberal clitic
doubling dialects such as Lima Spanish and River Plate Spanish in (160b) extend
direct object clitic doubling with agreeing clitics to inanimate deﬁnite objects.
(160) Standard Spanish
a. Pero ya no frío la yuca.
but again not fry-1SG DET.FSG cassava.FSG
‘But I do not fry the cassava again.’
Lima Spanish, River Plate
b. ¿Lai frío a la yucai o solo lai caliento?
CL3FSG fry-1SG DOM DET.FSG cassava or only CL3FSG heat-up-1SG
‘Do I fry the cassava or shall I only heat it up?’
Bilingual Spanish dialects, e.g. Paraguayan as well as Ecuadorian Spanish,
exhibit extensive leísmo with human and inanimate objects, as shown in the
Ecuadorian example (161). Leísmo in grammatical agreement in (161a) is un-
ambiguous, but anaphoric reading of the indirect object clitic in (161b) is
158 Variation and continuity in time and space
potentially ambiguous and requires the discourse context for resolution.15 More-
over, ambiguity allows for multiple ways to infer the underlying structure of the
entire sentence. Note that loss of number in bilingual uninstructed varieties
gives rise to invariant le representing only category and person.
(161) Ecuador (Suñer and Yépez 1988: 512)
a. Ya le veo a la camioneta.
already CL3 see-1SG DOM DET.FSG minibus.FSG
‘I can already see the minibus.’
b. Ya le veo.
already CL3 see-1SG
‘I can already see it (him/her).’
The two diﬀerent leísmo strategies are shown in (162). Leísmo as in the Madrid
norm is mainly restricted to masculine human direct objects in Peninsular Stan-
dard Spanish in (162a), and extended to feminine human direct objects speciﬁ-
cally in American Spanish leísta dialects as in (162b). Note the lack of a-marking
in the latter.
(162) Peninsular Spanish (Camacho 1999: 1569)
a. Le / lo conozco a Juan.
CL3SG / CL3MSG know-1SG DOM Juan
‘I know Juan.’
Ecuador (Suñer and Yépez 1988: 512)
b. . . . le conocía mamá.
. . . CL3SG meet-PAST-3SG mamá
. . . ‘s/he knew my mother.’
In fact, the extension in Ecuadorian and Paraguayan Spanish includes animate
and inanimate masculine and feminine objects as in (163), producing the same
apparent indirect object clitic doubling construction as Limeño Spanish contact
varieties by extending a-marking to inanimate objects but maintaining number
to some extent.
15 Note, that contact in both countries has always been directly between Spanish and Quechua/
Aymara/Guaraní, and not mediated by Andean Spanish, as has been and still is the case in Peru.
Leísmo/laísmo doubling 159
(163) Ecuador (Suñer and Yépez 1988: 512)
a. Les calentará a los pollitos.
CL3PL heat-FUT-3SG DOM DET.MPL chicken.MPL
‘(S)he will warm up the chicken.’
b. Le contrataré al taxi.
CL3SG hire-FUT-1SG DOM-DET.MSG taxi.MSG
‘I’ll hire that taxi.’
Ecuadorian Spanish, more precisely Spanish in the Central Ecuadorian High-
lands (Haboud 1997), has almost entirely replaced the direct object clitic with
the indirect object clitic. Yépez (1986) mentions that the direct object clitic as in
(164) remains as a propositional anaphor in highly educated speakers.
(164) Central Ecuadorian Highlands (Yépez 1986)
No quiso hacerlo.
not want-PAST-3SG do-INF.3NSG
‘He did not want to do it.’
However, Niño Murcia (1995) reports that in the Northern Ecuadorian Highlands
as in (165) invariant lo is preferred. This is an interesting parallel to Andean
Spanish and the Limeño Spanish contact varieties variation between le/lo as
object marker.
(165) Northern Ecuador (Niño Murcia 1995: 90)
Darámelo leyendo.
give-FUT.CL1SG.CL3 read-GERUND
‘Read it to/for me.’
Leísmo strategies in Paraguayan Spanish are very similar; they show leísmo
applied to male humans in (166a), extending it to female human singular objects
in (166b). Note the lack of number agreement with the plural male human object.
The plural female human object, however, receives full gender agreement through
laísmo, as demonstrated in (166c). Palacios (2000: 128) restricts this particular
strategy to university students.
(166) Paraguay (Palacios 2000: 127–128)
a. Yo lei conozco un señori que lei
PRO3SG CL3 know-1SG INDEF.MSG man that CL3SG
llamamoh Don Coño.
call-1PL Don Coño
‘I know a man whom we call Don Coño.’
160 Variation and continuity in time and space
b. Lei veo a la niñai / al niñoi
CL3 see-1SG DOM DET.FSG girl.FSG / DOM-DET.MSG boy.MSG
/ a los niños.
/ DOM DET.MPL boy.MPL
‘I see the girl/the boy/the boys.’
c. Lasi / *Lei veo a las niñasi.
CL3FPL / *CL3 see-1SG DOM DET.FPL girls.FPL
‘I see the girls’.
Like Peruvian Andean Spanish, leísmo and loísmo marking strategies co-occur in
Paraguay as well. Palacios (2000: 127) reports that extensive leísmo is preferred
in urban areas and loísmo among rural inhabitants, as shown in the two left dis-
located structures with an animate object in (167a) and an inanimate in (167b).
(167) Paraguay, rural Spanish (Palacios 2000: 130–131)
a. Cualquier persona que llevan a emplear
QUANT person that take-3PL PREP employ-INF
lo emplean allí.
CL3 employ-3PL there
‘Any person they take for work, gets employed there.’
b. La hierba por ejemplo lo hace mi
DET.FSG herb.FSG for example CL3 do-3SG POSS
padre en mi casa.
father PREP POSS house
‘The herbs for example my father prepares them at home.’
Palacios argues that loísmo in Paraguay does not seem to be motivated by
speciﬁc semantic or syntactic criteria.16 This is conﬁrmed in (168b) displaying
coexistence of both strategies.
(168) Paraguay, rural Spanish (Palacios 2000: 132)
a. Su madre le esperaba [a la niña]
POSS.3SG mother CL3 wait-PAST-3SG [DOM DET.FSG girl]
a la salida de la escuela.
PREP DET.FSG exit PREP DET.FSG school
‘Her mother waited for her (the girl) at the exit of the school.’
16 This had already been mentioned in a much earlier study by Usher de Herreros (1976).
Leísmo/laísmo doubling 161
b. La niña no lo vio [a la madre]
DET.FSG girl not CL3 see-PAST-3SG [DOM DET.FSG mother]
y corrió desesperada hacia su casa.
and run-PAST-3SG deperately towards POSS house
‘The girl did not see her (her mother) and ran desperately towards
her home.’
The only region in Argentina exhibiting extensive leísmo is Misiones, where
Spanish is in contact mainly with Portuguese through Brazilian migrants, who
have moved in considerable numbers to that region. There is also contact with
Guaraní in a few indigenous communities, and Arabic in some cities from recent
migrants. We ﬁnd leísmo in grammatical and anaphoric agreement with human
objects in (158a) and in anaphoric agreement in (169b) with inanimate speciﬁc
objects. Note that the lack of number in (169b) reﬂects a lesser educated speaker
than (169a).
(169) Misiones, Argentina (Amable 1975: 512)
a. Le llamé a mi amigo y más tarde
CL3SG call-PAST-1SG DOM POSS friend.MSG and more later
le vi en el bar.
CL3SG see-PAST-1SG in DET.MSG bar.MSG
‘I called my friend and a little later saw him at the bar.’
b. Esas víboras ponzoñosa ¿cómo le cazan
DEM.FPL viper.FPL venomous.FSG how CL3SG hunt-3PL
y le traen ustedes?
and CL3SG carry-3PL PRO3PL
‘How do you hunt and carry home these venomous vipers?’
Another parallel situation can be observed in a dialect of Basque Spanish, where
the indirect object clitic le surfaced as the sole clitic (Fernández Ordóñez 1994).
Basque Spanish allows leísmo doubling for quantiﬁers yielding a referential
reading for examples like (170).
(170) Basque Spanish (Franco and Landa 2006: 38–39)
a. ¿A quién le viste?
DOM whom CL3SG see-PAST-2SG
‘Whom did you see?’
162 Variation and continuity in time and space
b. No le he visto a nadie en el partido.
not CL3SG have-1SG see-PARTIC DOM nobody in the game
‘I didn’t see anybody at the game.’
c. Juan les quiere a todos.
Juan CL3SG love-3SG DOM all
‘Juan loves them all.’
Unlike Basque Spanish, which is a contact variety, the non-contact variety Stan-
dard Lima Spanish in (171) allows direct object quantiﬁer doubling under loísmo
only. Quantiﬁer clitic doubling of this type obtains in liberal clitic doubling
dialects.
(171) Lima Spanish (Mayer 2006: 72)
No lo vieron a nadie en esta playa.
not CL3MSG see-PAST-3PL DOM QUANT in this beach
‘They saw nobody on this beach.’
In Limeño Spanish contact varieties there is a distinctive diﬀerence in verbal
meaning between the marked version in (172a), and the unmarked version in
(171b), with a potentially ambiguous reading in the anaphoric agreement in
(172c), at least in some colloquial dialects. In the a-marked version, le refers to
the direct object (the car), whereas in the unmarked version, le refers to some-
body the speaker is addressing and telling him that he, the speaker, will look
after the/his car. Note that under economy conditions and taken out of context,
example (172c) remains ambiguous without the discourse context as (161b) above.
(172) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. Le veo al carro.
CL3SG see-1SG DOM-DET.MSG car.MSG
‘I’ll look after your car (for you).’
b. Le veo el carro.
CL3SG see-1SG DET.MSG car.MSG
‘I see the car.’ / ‘I’ll look after your car.’
c. Le veo.
CL3SG see-1SG
‘I see it/her/him.’
Leísmo strategies in Peninsular and Latin American Spanish have to be divided
into non-contact leísmo and bilingual contact leísmo. Under extensive contact
Leísmo/laísmo doubling 163
leísmo, ambiguities arise speciﬁcally under economy, and anaphoric identiﬁability
relies heavily on the immediate discourse context. As a natural consequence, for
American Spanish leísta dialect speakers the distinction between direct and
indirect objects, or for that matter between dative and accusative clitics and the
syntactic role they play, has given way to a diﬀerent object marking strategy.
Strategies that make use of invariant lo or invariant le mark instead the primary
object they have singled out as the most topic-worthy object and as such the
aboutness topic in the utterance. Supported by several grammaticalization pro-
cesses aﬀecting the entire case marking system, this change in object marking
strategy may lead in some varieties to a typological change from accusative/
dative marking to primary/secondary object marking.
5.3 Floating agreement in clitic clusters
The existence of a split object marking system in some areas of Latin American
Spanish, mainly in Andean Spanish, is supported by evidence from the same
ambiguities we have seen in the previous sections, again based on the com-
peting paradigms leísmo, loísmo and laísmo. In such varieties, two third-person
clitic clusters, se lo, se la, show optional ﬂoating agreement, whereby the
semantic features number and gender related to spurious se ﬂoat onto the
accusative clitic in the second slot. Spurious se which is devoid of semantic
features represents person only in the ﬁrst slot
Gender and number ﬂoating from spurious se onto the accusative clitics
lo/la is characteristic of speciﬁc Leísta Spanish dialects and widespread in the
Andean Spanish regional dialects. The occurrence of ﬂoating agreement is not
restricted to some Latin American Spanish varieties as it exists elsewhere in
Romance Languages. Italian shares this phenomenon in terms of parasitic plural
or ﬂoating plural. Compare the personal passive in (173a) with the impersonal
passive in (173b). Note that in Italian, Spanish and Catalan, the third person
reﬂexive and the impersonal se are both syncretic forms with no agreement
features.
(173) Italian (Bonet 1995: 630)
a. Sono stato abandonato a me stesso.
am-1SG is-3SG abandon-PARTIC TO REFL-1SG myself
‘I am abandoned to myself.’
b. Si è stati abbandonati a se stessi.
IMPERS is-3SG PARTIC.PL abandoned TO REFL them
‘One has been abandoned to oneself.’
164 Variation and continuity in time and space
The example in (173) is originally from Cinque (1988: 537, ex. 25b), who argues
that in Italian, the impersonal clitic si might have “a third person plural default
value”. Bonet (1995) and Pescarini (2005) claim that the morphology of the
impersonal in Italian is inherently speciﬁed for plural.
In Spanish ﬂoating agreement, the Peninsular Spanish grammatically ‘correct’
answer in (174b) to the question in (174a) shows the singular masculine lo in
feature agreement with its referential noun phrase el libro. The Latin American
Spanish answer in (174c) in turn shows the plural from the indirect object (los
Marchant) “ﬂoated” from the ﬁrst clitic onto the second clitic. This results in
double-marking of the indirect object while the direct object remains unmarked.
(174) Peninsular Spanish (Camacho 1999: 1571)
a. ¿Lesi devolviste el libroj a los Marchanti?
CL3PL give.back-PAST-2SG DET.MSG book DAT DET.MPL Marchant
‘Did you give the book back to the Marchants?’
b. Sí, sei loj devolvií la semana pasada.
yes SE CL3MSG give.back-PAST-1SG the week last
‘Yes I gave it back to them last week.’
Latin American Spanish
c. Sí, sei losi devolví la semana pasada.
yes SE CL3MPL give.back-PAST-1SG the week last
‘Yes I gave it back to them last week.’
This kind of linking of indirect object clitic agreement features to the direct
object clitic is not restricted to number but applies to gender as well. For example,
in (175), if the gender of the indirect object is feminine, the direct object clitic
expresses the gender ﬂoating agreement feature in its morphological form.
(175) Company (2003: 223) (based on data from Lope Blanch (1971))
Si ellasi me quieren comprar el caballoj,
if PRO3FPL CL1SG want-3PL buy-INF DET.MSG horse.MSG
yo sei lasi vendo.
PRO1SG SE CL3FPL sell-1SG
‘If they want to buy the horse from me, I will sell it to them.’
These examples show that cluster variation in terms of ﬂoating features is moti-
vated by a combination of morphological, syntactic, pragmatic, synchronic and
diachronic factors.
Floating agreement in clitic clusters 165
Floating agreement was already mentioned by Kany (1967) and by Dryer
(1986) in relation to primary topic marking. Previous work treated the phenomenon
as non-standard dialectal variation (Heap 1998; Ordóñez 2002; Company 2001,
2003) or as dialectal variations in opposition to Iberian Spanish (Fernández
Soriano 1999; Camacho 1999).
Optimality theoretic accounts, based on the interaction of phonology and
morphology, treated ﬂoating features as violable language-speciﬁc markedness
constraints (Grimshaw 1982, 2001, 2004). In a frequency-based analysis, Haspel-
math (2004) ranked the thematic roles theme and recipient in accordance with
their topic-worthiness.
The morphological analysis based on Distributed Morphology for Catalan
and Italian (Bonet 1991, 1995; Harris 1994, 1995; Pescarini 2005; among others),
and for Spanish (Pérez 2000), proposed feature delinking from spurious se and
relinking onto the direct object clitic. The surface outcome then is a result of the
morpho-phonological ‘spell-out’ rules. However, it is not clear what the restric-
tions of the morphology component are. Distributed Morphology does not oﬀer
any explanation of why the features are delinked, relinked and/or inserted.
Hence, to predict possible clitic combinations into clusters is quite diﬃcult.
5.3.1 Person-Case Constraint and case syncretism
The strong relationship between case syncretism and the Person-Case Constraint
has been linked to a move from coreferential agreement, marking unambiguously
the indirect and the direct object in all Standard Spanish dialects, to marking
the primary object17 in Latin American Spanish (Adger and Harbour 2007).18 In
a detailed Lexical-Functional Grammar account of ﬂoating agreement com-
prising number and gender in Latin American Leísta dialects, I link ﬂoating
agreement to historical case erosion in Spanish, which in turn triggered a loss
of case-restrictions on the third person clitic paradigm (Mayer 2013). I argue that
these grammaticalization processes combined with an observable typological
tendency to mark the primary rather than the secondary object (Dryer 1986),
and linking grammatical object marking to information structure (Nikolaeva
1999; Dalrymple and Nikolaeva 2011), allow for a causal explanation of ﬂoating
number and gender agreement.
17 In transitive constructions, the marked direct object is the primary object and in distransitives,
the primary object is the indirect object.
18 I will say more about this topic in the second part of chapter six.
166 Variation and continuity in time and space
In (176a), the plural from the primary object (indirect object), represented
by spurious se, ﬂoats onto the direct object as it cannot appear on spurious se.
Consider the diﬀerence in establishing anaphoric reference between the Latin
American Spanish cluster with two third person clitics in (176a) and the equi-
valent Standard Spanish cluster with a second and a third person in (176b).
Replacement of the second person plural with the third person clitics in Latin
American Spanish is of crucial importance here, as the increase in syncretism
triggers referential and syntactic ambiguity. Spurious se can either refer to you
(formal) singular (usted) or you (plural). The grammatical relation primary
object in (176a) reﬂects the discourse status and topic-worthiness of the object,
and the grammatical relation direct object reﬂects the thematic role status of the
direct object (cf. Dryer 1986: 841).
(176) Latin American Spanish, P3 and P3 [primary object]
a. Se los agradezco.
SE CL3MPL thank-1SG
‘I thank you (sg/pl) for it.’
Peninsular Spanish, P2 and P3 [indirect obj + direct obj]
b. Os lo agradezco.
CL2PL CL3MSG thank-1SG
‘I thank you (pl) for it.’
Another analysis has been proposed by Pescarini (2005: 253), who argues that
based on previous gender impoverishment that produced the dative le, number
impoverishment is the trigger for the insertion of the “reﬂexive exponent se, that
is a third person pronoun without explicit reference (gender and number)”. As
the plural feature does not get deleted, it appears (“moves to”) the accusative
clitic position.19 This seems unlikely, as the reﬂexive and impersonal clitic se
does not show number or gender features in the morphology.
Recall from chapter two, section 5.2 that under the extended Object Agree-
ment Constraint20 the person feature does not intervene in the agreement con-
straint, which is triggered by dative case and not by clitic morphology as in the
Person-Case Constraint (cf. chapter two, section 5.2). I will present an example
from American Leísta Spanish dialects in (177) and historic evidence in (178) to
back up the claim for a syntactic analysis.
19 Conf. Table 2.3 for the syncretism in Latin American Spanish.
20 Repeated here from chapter two: “If the verbal complex encodes object agreement, no other
argument can be licensed through verbal agreement (Ormazabal and Romero 2007: 336).
Floating agreement in clitic clusters 167
Full-ﬂedged primary object marking is shown in example (177) with the
overt subject pronoun and the combination of a ﬁrst-person ethical dative and
a third-person leísmo in (177b) and an impersonal and a third-person leísmo in
(177c). The combination of a noncore argument and a core accusative object
argument obtains with leísmo (me les) and without (me las), but without case
identiﬁcation. Loss of number in the impersonal clitic cluster in (177c) restricts
referential identiﬁcation to an immediate discourse context.
(177) American Spanish Leísta dialects
a. ¿Conoces a Michelle y Alex?
‘Do you know Michelle and Alex?’
b. Sí, yo me les encuentro todos los días.
yes PRO1SG ETH.DAT1SG CL3PL meet-1SG QUANT DET.MPL days
‘Yes, I meet them every day.’
c. Se le encuentra todos los días.
IMPERS CL3SG meet-3SG QUANT DET.MPL days
‘One meets them every day.’
Historic evidence for increased syncretism due to case erosion, dating back as
far as the thirteenth century, is shown in the examples in (178) where the dative
clitic le refers to an inanimate object in (178a) and the plural les in (178b) in a
cluster consisting of dative and leísmo.
(178) Castillan Spanish (Bonet 1991)
a. El paraguas le perdí.
DET.MSG umbrella CL3SG lose-PAST-1SG
‘I lost the umbrella.’
b. Los libros me les dejé en casa.
DET.MPL book CL1SG CL3PL leave-PAST-1SG PREP home
‘The books I forgot them at home.’
Feature-specifying clitics in Standard Spanish allow precise identiﬁcation of
each object referent, thus distinguishing between indirect and direct objects.
Therefore, ﬂoating plurals do not obtain in dialects that preserve the second
person plural clitic os as shown above in (176b) where the prepositional dative
in (177b) is replaced by a dative clitic which is syncretic for dative and accusa-
tive. The requirement of morphological markedness that person agreement on
the verb must be unambiguous is satisﬁed despite case erosion dating back a
long way.
168 Variation and continuity in time and space
In language change situations, we expect to ﬁnd the full range of competing
grammars in dialectal variability, from referential agreeing feature-marking –
accidentally or deliberately – to covariation of loísmo/leísmo.
5.3.2 Clitic clusters variability
Cooccurrence restrictions of clitic clusters in American Spanish dialects are
highly variant and not extensively documented.21 In the literature and in my
data there is no evidence for the extraordinary dialectal variability as described
in Ordóñez (2002) for Aragonese, Catalan, Occitan, and Spanish. The variability
concerns the possibility of reverse order of clusters with a reﬂexive and a dative
in proclisis (se me/me se). Heap (1998: 231) mentions that this is a widespread
nonstandard feature occurring for Murcian Spanish, Judeo Spanish, certain
varieties of Catalan and a speciﬁc region in the Dominican Republic. However,
this does not imply total absence of such variability in Limeño Spanish contact
varieties, as the absence might be caused by the fact that clitic cluster data from
naturally occurring speech are rare, since spoken Spanish shows a preference
for monotransitives.
(179) Murcian, Judeo Spanish (Heap 1998: 321)
a. Si no riego, me se seca todo.
if not irrigate-1SG ETHDAT.1SG SE22 dry-3SG QUANT
‘If I don’t irrigate, everything dries up on me.’
b. La he atado para que no te
CL3FSG AUX-1SG tie-PARTIC PREP that not ETHDAT-2SG
se caiga.
SE fall-SBJV-3SG
‘I tied it so that it wouldn’t fall.’
For Andean Spanish Cerrón Palomino (2003) cites several examples with invariant
lo as sole object clitic occurring in second position. In (180a) invariant lo refers
to a place and in (180b) in the ﬁrst instance to a direct object, and in the second
part to an indirect object.
21 An exception is the overview of leísmo, laísmo and loísmo in Peninsular and American Spanish
by Fernández Ordóñez (1999).
22 Unlike Heap, I would analyze both instances of se in (169a) and (169b) as a reﬂexive.
Floating agreement in clitic clusters 169
(180) Early Andean Spanish Cerrón Palomino (2003: 1769–170)
a. Me lo fui a ondi istava con
REFL1SG CL3MSG go-PAST-1SG PREP PREP is-PAST-3SG with
el mi hermano.
DET.MSG POSS1SG brother.MSG
‘I went to stay with my brother.’
b. Me lo dexo que lo aude
REFL1SG CL3MSG allow-PAST-3SG that CL3MSG help-SBJV-3SG
et retablo.
the altarpiece
‘(S)He allowed me to help him with the altarpiece.’
A more recent invariant lo example (181) shows lo clitic doubling a plural feminine
direct object, which Escobar (2000: 58) analyzes as redundant lo.
(181) Andean Spanish (Pozzi-Escot 1972)
Mi mamá me lo compró dos truzas.
my mother CL1SG CL3MSG buy-PAST-3SG two underpants
‘My mother bought me two underpants.’
A recent example (182) from my ﬁeldwork shows lo instead of the expected le.
(182) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
¡Cómo se lo ocurre que podría jugar
how SE CL3MSG occur-3SG that can-COND-3SG play-INF
con algo así!
with something such
‘How can (s)he think of playing with such a thing!’
There is consensus on a potential broad range of variability due to varying
degrees of leísmo. In Ecuadorian dialects, exhibiting extensive leísmo such as
Quiteño for example, co-occurrence restrictions of a direct object and indirect
object clitic with the same verb rule out clusters of the type se lo (Suñer and Yépez
1988).
Even though Limeño Spanish contact varieties do not exhibit extensive
leísmo they show basically the same leísmo strategy as double direct object con-
structions, where clusters of the type se lo(s)/la(s) can be replaced by se le(s).
This applies to human objects as in (183b), whose previous context is given
in (183a), describing the special singing intonation of Amazonian Spanish
speakers.
170 Variation and continuity in time and space
(183) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. Nosotros pronunciamos claramente las letras solo que
PRO1MPL pronounce-1PL clearly the words only that
lo hacemos cantando.
CL3MSG do-1PL sing-GERUND
‘We clearly pronounce the letters but we do it singing.’
b. Ya pues, es un chiste cuando se les
yes ok is-3SG a joke when IMPERS CL3PL
escucha hablar.
hear-3SG talk-INF
‘Yeah, it is really funny hearing them talk.’
Spurious se as an impersonal as in (183b) suggests that a diﬀerence should be
made between the person feature of an impersonal pronoun, and third person
along the lines of Nevins (2007).23
Consider (184) which involves an inanimate argument in each of the two
clauses: a patient/theme yuca and a theme algodón. In (184a) the preposed
accusative patient/theme is taken up as impersonal se and the accusative
theme is cliticized as dative le which is underspeciﬁed for gender in a case of
leísmo.
(184) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. A la yucai sei lei / *lai
DOM DET.FSG cassava.FSG IMPERS CL3SG / *CL3FSG
exprime bastante para sacarlei el algodónj.
squeeze-3SG a lot to take out.CL3SG the cotton
‘The cassava must be squeezed thoroughly to obtain all the
(cotton-like) starch.’
The control examples (185) from Lima Standard speakers show a fundamental
diﬀerence between an impersonal construction in (185a) with an unmarked
inanimate patient (yuca), taken up in the second part with an indirect object
clitic, and an impersonal in (185b) with agreeing direct object clitic.
23 See section 2.5.2.
Floating agreement in clitic clusters 171
(185) Lima Spanish
a. La yucai se exprime bastante para
DET.FSG cassava.FSG IMPERS squeeze-3SG a lot to
sacarlei el algodón.
take out-INF.CL3SG the cotton
‘The cassava gets squeezed thoroughly to obtain all the (cotton-like)
starch.’
b. A la yucai hay que exprimirlai
DOM DET.FSG cassava must that squeeze-INF.CL3FSG
bastante para sacarlei el algodón.
a lot to take out.CL3SG the starch
‘The cassava has to get thoroughly squeezed to take out the
(cotton-like) starch.’
Recall example (172) from the last subsection, where diﬀerential object marking
made a diﬀerence in the meaning of the verb. The same applies to clitic clusters
conveying the same meaning. Consider the Limeño Spanish contact varieties
laísta example in (186).
(186) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. Estoy con ella, ahora me la veo.
am-1SG with PRO3FSG now CL1SG CL3FSG see-1SG
‘I am with her, now I look after her.’
b. Yo sola me la he visto con
PRO1SG alone CL1SG CL3FSG have-1SG seen-PARTIC with
mi hija también.
my daughter also
‘Also, I alone have looked after my daughter.’
This canonical clitic cluster in (186b) shows overt marking of both the highly
agentive and overtly expressed subject, and the aﬀected and overtly mentioned
object. Note that the direct object clitic doubles a prepositional phrase here.
The examples so far show a diﬀerence in object marking strategies, depend-
ing on agentivity of the subject. This conﬁrms the analysis of clitic clusters
in chapter two. The plural in the leísmo direct object has no morphological
correspondent in the feminine singular subject. A leísmo example from my data
is given in (187).
172 Variation and continuity in time and space
(187) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
O sea, la juventud está pues con más que uno
so the youth is-3SG then with more that one
se les aconseja, se les habla, se les dice
se CL3PL advice-3SG SE CL3PL talk-3SG SE CL3PL say-3SG
las cosas. La realidad de la vida es que
DET.FPL things.FPL the reality of the life is-3SG that
es dura.
is-3SG hard
‘So, young people are then . . . although one gives them all the advice
possible, one talks to them, talks to them about things, about reality
of life, which is hard.’
In Limeño Spanish contact varieties we note a tendency to diﬀerentiate between
referential strategies and leísmo, depending on agentivity of the subject. In the
latter case, clitic doubling can be extended to include prepositional phrases,
as in (185a). Cases of ﬂoating plural have been found for both clitic agreement
features, number and gender. As occurrence of this innovation is not restricted
to a speciﬁc dialect or dialectal region, I assume a strong connection with the
ongoing grammaticalization processes changing clitic noun phrase agreement
into featureless object markers triggering primary object marking.
5.4 Object drop and anaphoric recoverability
Another signiﬁcant phenomenon related to primary object marking in Latin
American Spanish is the occurrence of null direct objects, albeit not one re-
stricted to a speciﬁc geographic region. It can be linked to non-standard linguistic
systems, as found in contact languages and dialects, as topic drop. Null objects,
or dropping of direct objects, is more restricted in Peninsular Spanish and will
be discussed together with Ecuadorian conditions in the next section for reasons
of better comparability.
Henn-Memmesheimer (1997) reports that in some southwest non-standar-
dized dialects of German, weak pronouns referring to mass nouns, and plural
terms in a standard linguistic system can be replaced by a syntactic null position
as shown in the example (188).
Object drop and anaphoric recoverability 173
(188) Bodensee Alemannic (Henn-Memmesheimer 1997: 237)
Ich glaube nicht, dass er Ø gekauft hat.
PRO1SG think-1SG not that PRO3MSG Ø buy-PARTIC has-3SG
‘I don’t think he bought (it).’
This has been linked to Spanish indeﬁnite object drop by Glaser (1993). My own
Austrian Alemannic dialect in (189) would have covariation of the clitic form of
the neuter PRO es24 and a null pronoun.
(189) Bodensee Alemannic, Vorarlberg
[. . .] dass er ’s / Ø kouft heat.
[. . .] that PRO3MSG ‘CL3NSG / Ø buy-PARTIC has-3SG
‘[. . .] that he has bought it.’
Languages vary cross-linguistically in relation to the conditions licensing object
drop, yet discourse topics seem to be the prime candidates in general. Null
direct objects in most dialects seem to be constrained by deﬁniteness and ana-
phoric recoverability.
Vincent (2001) argues that null objects in Latin were topical. Quiteño Spanish
(Yépez 1986; Suñer and Yépez 1988) and Paraguayan Spanish (Granda 1982;
Palacios 2000) show patterns very similar to Brazilian Portuguese (Schwenter
and Alamillo 2007; Vasconcellos Lopes and Cyrino 2005) with regard to anaphoric
direct object coding. Choi (2000) reports for Paraguayan Spanish that human
direct objects get encoded by the indirect object clitic le and inanimate, non-
person direct objects are dropped. Schwenter (2006) gives a comprehensive
overview of the Latin American variability; country-speciﬁc studies are Lipski
(1994) for Argentina and Paraguay, Stratford (1989) for Bolivia, Suñer and Yépez
(1988) for Ecuador, and Escobar (1990) among others for Peru. For Colombia,
Rodríguez de Montes (1981) reports object drop and also direct object clitic
doubling with invariant lo among non-native Spanish speakers. Object drop is a
general phenomenon across all social classes and in the speech of bilingual as
well as monolingual speakers. Cross-linguistic data from closely related dialects
and languages conﬁrm this.
24 Es can function as a subject and in its weak form as an object pronoun. This dialect is
part of ‘Bodensee-Alemannic’ as described in Brandner (2006). For an overview of pronouns in
Germanic and Romance languages see Cardinaletti (1999).
174 Variation and continuity in time and space
5.4.1 Ecuador
Null objects in Ecuadorian Spanish occur with preposed object arguments in
(190) dropping the resumptive direct object clitic. The morpheme las in (190b)
is a representative of the direct object determiners being able to project a deter-
miner phrase.25
(190) Ecuador (Suñer and Yepéz 1988: 514)
a. Todos los cursos que hice, Ø hice
all the courses that take-PAST-1SG CL3MPL take-PAST-1SG
en una fábrica en Massachusetts.
in a factory in Massachusetts
‘All courses I took were at a factory in Massachusetts.’
b. Las de allá Ø cerraron.
DET.FPL PREP there CL3FPL close-PAST-3PL
‘They closed the ones over there.’
c. Las elecciones yo nunca Ø entendí.
DET.FPL elections PRO1SG never CL3FPL understand-PAST-1SG
‘I never understood the elections.’
d. La leche Ø vendían a $1.20.
DET.FSG milk CL3FSG sell-PAST-3PL PREP $1.20
‘The used to sell the milk for $1.20.’
Classical inanimate elliptical objects as shown in (191a), (191c) and (191e) pose
no directionality or ambiguity problems, as the dropped object is assumed to
be an inanimate discourse topic. Full forms are given in examples (191b), (191d)
and (191f).
(191) a. Dame Ø.
give-2SG.CL1SG Ø.
‘Give me (something/anything).’
b. Dámelo.
give-2SG.CL1SG.CL3MSG
‘Give it to me.’ [SPECIFIC]
25 As shown in Table 2.8.
Object drop and anaphoric recoverability 175
c. Bueno, yo te Ø saco.
ﬁne PRO1SG CL2SG Ø take.out-1SG
‘Fine, I’ll take (it) out for you.’
d. Bueno, yo te lo saco.
ﬁne PRO1SG CL2SG CL3MSG take.out-1SG
‘Fine, I’ll take it out for you.’
e. Ø vi en la televisión.
Ø see-PAST-1SG PREP DET.FSG television
‘I saw (it) on television.’
f. Lo vi en la televisión.
CL3MSG see-PAST-1SG PREP DET.FSG television
‘I saw it on television.’
Concerning example (191a), Suñer and Yépez (1988: 512) note that these con-
structions do occur in Standard Spanish, but rarely, and preferably with verbs
of understanding and knowledge as in (192), (cf. Schwenter and Alamillo 2007).
(192) Penisular Spanish (Madrid)
a. No Ø sé.
not CL3MSG know-1SG
‘I do not know.’
b. No lo sé.
not CL3MSG know-1SG
‘I do not know.’
Also for Peninsular Spanish, Fernández Soriano (1999) cites the three examples
in (193) hypothesising that in Peninsular Spanish only the neuter (which is the
typical object of these verbs) is being left out, and in contrast to Ecuadorian
Spanish this treatment is extended to all inanimates. These facts constitute
more evidence for topic drop (referring to the aboutness topic), when the topic
is recoverable from the immediate discourse context.
(193) Peninsular Spanish
a. No te olvides de [decirle]. [decírselo]
not CL2SG forget-SBJV-2SG to tell-INF.CL3SG [tell-INF.CL3SG.CLMSG]
‘Don’t forget to tell her/him.’
176 Variation and continuity in time and space
b. ¿A quién [le] preguntaste? [se lo]
DOM who CL3SG ask-PAST-2SG [CL3SG CLMSG]
‘Whom did you ask?’
c. [Le] voy a contar. [se lo]
CL3SG go-1SG PREP tell-INF [CL3SG CLMSG]
‘I am going to tell him.’
This strategy is apparently very similar in Basque as well (Landa 1995), as will
be shown in the discussion of Basque Spanish in section 4.3.
Object/topic drop in Ecuadorian Spanish extends to verbs that subcategorize
for two human arguments aﬀecting the indirect object as shown in (194). Argu-
ment ellipsis with two human arguments in the case of (194a) presents interesting
problems for ambiguity avoidance. Since both object arguments of this verb can
be animate, the clause is ambiguous. For these examples Suñer and Yépez (1988)
argue that the direct object clitic gets suppressed to avoid cooccurrence of an
indirect object and direct object. An explanation to the previous point may be
that Quiteño exhibits extensive leísmo and would replace the null direct object
with le(s) instead of the feature-speciﬁc clitics (la(s)/lo(s).
(194) Ecuador (Suñer and Yépez 1988: 513)
a. Preséntame-Ø.
introduce-2SG.CL1SG.-Ø
‘Introduce me (to her/him/them).’ or ‘Introduce her/him to me.’
b. Preséntame a las chicas.
introduce-2SG.CL1SG DOM DET.FPL girls.FPL
‘Introduce me to the girls.’ or ‘Introduce the girls to me.’
Campos (1991b: 120) refers to object drop in Quiteño as follows: ‘A parasitic gap
is licensed by a wh-element in situ or by the trace of a wh-element”. Parasitic
gap licensing in Spanish is diﬀerent from English. In Spanish, it must allow for
both, the wh-element and traces of a who-element. Suñer and Yépez (1988) in
their analysis of object drop in Quiteño do not share Campo’s assumption; in
their view, it is just a coincidence that the null objects have the same referent.
An example for silent objects of this kind is given in (195) from Campos (1991a).
The silent object is indicated by ‘e’, replacing lo.
(195) Quiteño (Campos 1991a: 123)
Lo archivaron e(l) sin leer e.
CL3MSG put away-PAST-3PL e(1) PREP read-INF e
‘They put it away without reading it.’
Object drop and anaphoric recoverability 177
It is clear, that contact varieties show higher frequency of object drop, especially
in the intermediate stages. In Peru, object drop is a rather frequent phenomenon
in the Andean regions and only now noticeable in Limeño contact.
5.4.2 Brazilian Portuguese and Paraguayan Spanish
For Brazilian Portuguese, Vasconcellos and Cyrino (2005) point to a direct rela-
tionship between two competing systems,26 where the use of third person clitics
is very rare, and strong pronouns seem to be preferred for animate and speciﬁc
objects. Unlike European Portuguese, object drop in Brazilian Portuguese occurs
very liberally in any syntactic environment. Cyrino furter argues that the utterance
in (196) would be ungrammatical in European Portguese where the object
pronoun o would be required.27
(196) Brazilian Portuguese (Vasconcellos Lopes and Cyrino 2005: 344)
O rapaz que trouxe Ø agora mesmo da
the boy that bring-PAST-3SG Ø now just PREP-DET.FSG
pastelaria era o teu aﬁlhado.
pastry.shop is-PAST-3SG DET.MSG POSS godson
‘The boy that brought (it) just now from the pastry shop was your
godson.’
Symeonidis (2005) corroborates the ﬁndings for Brazilian Portuguese and ascribes
the similar situation in Paraguay28 to a strong inﬂuence of Guaraní on Paraguayan
Spanish with regard to clitics. Guaraní uses third person object clitics almost
exclusively for humans, rarely for animals and never for inanimate objects.
Deﬁniteness does not play a role. Note the strong parallel with diﬀerential object
marking in standard Spanish varieties in this respect. Symeonidis argues further
that in Paraguayan Spanish and Brazilian Portuguese, bordering the Paraguayan
territory, third person direct object clitics are always used for humans, a parallel
situation to Standard Spanish and Portuguese. In referring to animals we ﬁnd
variation resembling Guaraní norms and diverging from Standard Spanish or
26 This development seems to be restricted to Brazilian Portuguese and is part of a grammatical
change that does not happen in European Portuguese.
27 Note that the third person clitics o (him) and a (her) show diverging morphological status,
they are proclitics in Brazilian Portuguese and enclitics in European Portguese (Schwenter 2006).
28 The ﬁrst and most comprehensive description of Paraguayan Spanish is without doubt de
Granda (1988), but he did not speciﬁcally conﬁrm object drop of inanimates.
178 Variation and continuity in time and space
Portuguese. Inanimates are rarely referred to, in this unlike from Standard
Spanish.
Choi (2000) argues against substratum inﬂuence based on data from mono-
lingual and bilingual speakers, and argues instead for taking into account
language internal and external factors in the sense of Thomason and Kaufman
(1998). Object drop of inanimate direct objects is found in oral and written lan-
guage as in the examples in (197) and only aﬀects direct objects. This demon-
strates again the relation of the direct object to the recoverable aboutness topic
or secondary topic.
(197) Paraguay (Palacios 2000: 135–136)
a. Todos le pueden decir que Ø vieron.
all CL3SG can-3PL say-INF that Ø see-PAST-3PL
‘Everybody can tell her/him that they saw him/her/it.’
b. Normalmente el gasto Ø paga.
normally DET.MSG expense Ø pay-3SG
‘Normally she/he pays for the expense.’
c. Tuvo la mala idea de contarØ a la directora
has-PAST-3SG the bad idea of tell-INF.Ø to the director
(contárselo).
(tell-INF.CL3SG.CLMSG)
‘She/he had the bad idea to tell the director about it.’
This conﬁrms the close similarity of speciﬁcally Ecuadorian and Paraguayan
Spanish with Brazilian Portuguese, where object drop obtains primarily for
inanimates if anaphoric recoverability is ensured from the immediate linguistic
and pragmatic context. Again, the anaphoric dropping strategies presented in
this section can be related to extensive leísmo (in Spanish only) and to speciﬁc
object marking strategies that show considerable diﬀerences between European
and Latin American Spanish and Portuguese.
5.4.3 Basque Spanish
Bilingual Basque Spanish in contact with Basque shows similar behaviour
to Ecuadorian (Landa 1995; Franco and Landa 2003),29 however it diﬀers in
29 This description of Basque Spanish relies heavily on the work by Landa (1995) and Franco
and Landa (2003).
Object drop and anaphoric recoverability 179
exhibiting only partial leísmo restricted to animate direct objects. Compared with
Peninsular Spanish, where only bare objects30 undergo object drop, in Basque
Spanish only inanimate objects can be dropped, as in example (198a); animates
cannot be dropped (198b). Noteworthy is that object drop in Basque Spanish is
restricted to topical objects.
(198) Basque Spanish (Franco and Landa 2003: 12–13)
a. Ha llegado el paquetei esta mañana pero
has-3SG arrive-PARTIC the parcel this morning but
no hemos abierto Øi.
not have-1PL open-PARTIC Øi
‘The parcel arrived this morning but we haven’t opened (it).’
b. Yoi no he ido al
PRO1SG not have-1SG go-PARTIC PREP-DET.MSG
departamento hoy porque no quiero que Juan
apartment today because not want-1SG that Juan
me / *Øi vea.
CL1SG / *Øi see-SBJV-3SG
‘I have not been to the apartment today because I don’t want Juan
to see me.’
Further, there are two more important conditions relating to Basque Spanish
object marking. There is leísmo extending to all animate objects, as demonstrated
in (199a), and absence of clitic doubling of inanimates (199b).
(199) Basque Spanish (Franco and Landa 2003: 13)
a. ¿Lei has visto a Juani?
CL3SG has-3SG see-PARTIC DOM Juan
‘Have you seen Juan?’
b. *No loi han abierto el paquetei.
not CLMSG have-3PL open-PARTIC the parcel
‘They haven’t opened the parcel’.
To complicate the matter further, object drop is not categorical but optional and
dependent on topical status (Franco and Landa 2003: 319). In sum, more topical
30 Bare objects are determinerless objects as in e.g. ¿Compraste pan? -Did you buy bread?
180 Variation and continuity in time and space
objects seem to be more likely to be fully dropped rather than expressed with an
anaphoric clitic. This is a very interesting result and highly relevant to the ﬁnd-
ings from Latin American contact Spanish, speciﬁcally Andean Spanish and
Limeño Spanish contact varieties discussed in the ﬁnal subsection which follows.
Limeño Spanish contact varieties object drop is all but restricted to deﬁnite-
ness as long as anaphoric recoverability is ensured by the immediate context.
This involves deﬁnite noun phrase antecedents in postverbal argument position
(200) and preposed in (201). Both objects are not overtly marked, they appear in
canonical and topical object position, respectively.
(200) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. ¿Recogiste los documentos?
pick-up-PAST-2SG the documents
‘Did you pick up the documents?’
b. Ayer mismo Ø recogí.
yesterday exactly Ø pick-up-PAST-1SG
‘I picked them up already yesterday.’
Note also the leísmo strategy in (201a) where the indirect object clitic takes up
the inanimate preposed determiner phrase topic. Based on an extensive corpus
study of Mexican and Madrid Spanish, Schwenter and Alamillo (2007: 119) ﬁnd
that the presence of the adverb ya attracts object drop, speciﬁcally of neuter lo.
Example (201b) is the only example in my Limeño Spanish contact varieties data
with ya; object drop here refers to an anaphoric topic, and perfect tense points
towards telicity. The omitted full reference here would be the clitic cluster se lo,
referring to the owner of the house and to ese gas. However, inserting only one
reference, either of lo/le yields two diﬀerent meanings as the clitics can refer to
either of the two objects.
(201) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. Ese gas de Camisea yo no le veo su economía.
that gas of Camisea PRO1SG not CL3SG see-1SG POSS economy
‘I don’t see how that gas from Camisea will be cheaper.’
b. ¿Ya Ø pusieron por su casa?
already Ø put-PAST-3PL PREP POSS house
‘Did they already install it where you live?’
Leísmo topic drop includes animate deﬁnite pronominal anaphora as in (150)
above. The ﬂoating topic in (202) reﬂects the strong relationship between topics
and pro-drop, enough evidence to warrant the term topic-drop.
Object drop and anaphoric recoverability 181
(202) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
Ella, yo le llevé a Iquitos, Ø llevé
PRO3FSG PRO1SG CL3SG take-PAST-1SG LOC Iquitos Ø take-PAST-1SG
en el 90.
PREP DET.MSG 90
‘Her, I took to Iquitos, I took (her) in the nineteen nineties.’
Object/topic drop also extends to propositional object drop with the reference
recoverable from the immediate discourse context. Example (191) is one of the
very few occurrences in my corpus.
(203) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
O sea, los pelo la parte de encima la
that means CLMPL peel-1SG the piece of above the
cascarita blanca y si no Ø quiere picante, las
skin white and if not Ø want-3SG spicy DET.FPL
saco las venas de adentro.
take-oﬀ-1SG DET.FPL veins PREP inside
‘I mean, I peel oﬀ the top white skin, and if you don’t like it spicy,
I remove the inner veins as well.’
Further object drop includes resumptive pronoun drop with preposed inanimate
objects as in example (204b).
(204) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. ¿Usted la pela?
PRO2SG-FORMAL CLFSG peel-3SG
‘Do you peel it?’
b. A la yuca sí Ø pelo.
DOM DET.FSG cassava yes Ø peel-1SG
‘Yes, I peel the cassava.’
Another instance of object drop involves verb ellipsis in a propositional phrase
leaving the head noun phrase behind as demonstrated in (204).
(204) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
Bueno, yo veo la forma Ø o lo hago.
ok PRO1SG see-1SG the way Ø or CLMSG do-1SG
‘All right then, I’ll see how (I can get out of this) or I’ll do it.’
182 Variation and continuity in time and space
All data mentioned so far involve direct object/topic drop, including leísmo
strategies typical for Latin American Spanish and for peninsular leísmo adstratum
as described in Fernández Ordóñez (2007, 2009).
The next two examples in (204) are typical for Andean Spanish speakers,
where the indirect object clitic le is dropped. This may be related to the fact
that indirect object clitic doubling does not occur in Andean Spanish.
(205) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW)
a. Yo Ø decía a la señora.
PRO1SG Ø say-PAST-3SG dat DET.FSG woman
‘I was telling the lady.’
b. Y la suegra Ø fue llevando un
and the mother-in-law Ø is-PAST-3SG take-GERUND INDEF
enterito a la hijita de mi sobrina.
jumpsuit DAT the daughter PREP POSS-1SG niece
‘And the mother-in-law took a jumpsuit as a gift for the baby
daughter of my niece.’
Examples for object drop in my data are scarce, consisting mostly of pronominal
and noun phrase anaphora, and the rest relating to propositional anaphora or
verb phrase ellipsis. For my data involving object drop I assume that only continu-
ing topics can get dropped, hence topic drop would be a more appropriate term.
5.5 Summary
All linguistic innovations mentioned for the Limeño Spanish contact varieties
data coincide to some extent with the Peninsular Spanish variability set out
at the beginning of this chapter. The speciﬁc Latin American Spanish leísmo
strategy ﬁnds its counterpart in Peninsular Spanish in leísmo by adstratum/
contact. The variability described by Fernández Ordóñez (1993, 2007, 2009) is
motivated by similar factors as in Limeño Spanish contact varieties, perhaps
more visible in the latter due to extra-linguistic factors, such as widespread
undereducation, contact mediated by Andean Spanish – which is already a
contact variety itself – and the sheer number of speakers who have disconnected
from their original ﬁrst and second languages through migration from their rural
homes to the periphery of the capital Lima, where they already were in dialect
contact with the prestigious educated dialect and attrition and loss of the
Amerindian languages. Furthermore, almost all factors except the mediated
contact are also present speciﬁcally in the regions discussed in this chapter.
Summary 183
We see clearly that Limeño Spanish contact varieties display a hybrid clitic
system but also a principled distinction between grammatical agreement with
non-agreeing clitics and anaphoric agreement with mostly agreeing clitics. The
variability is scalar and dependent on three main factors:
1. Dialect and/or language contact
2. Attrited31 monolingual speakers – responsible for the scalar clitic production
3. Access to formal (standardizing) education and community input
Standard Limeño Spanish as the educated norm shows the full clitic system dis-
tinguishing between case, gender and number. In this respect it is very similar
to Standard Spanish, except for a tendency to allow liberal direct object clitic
doubling as in River Plate Spanish (Zdrojewski and Sánchez 2014). Andean
Spanish represents a dialect continuum, and serves as the mediating contact
language between Limeño Spanish and Quechua. Contact with Aymara is re-
stricted to the most southern part of Peru reaching into northern Chile.32 Andean
Spanish (attrited) monolingual speakers show a partial clitic inventory based on
case, increasing leísmo, but still a preference for invariant lo with feminine
determiner phrases disregarding number and gender. Limeño contact speakers
show a variable hybrid clitic system depending on education and stage of the
continuum; variability is found across all regions, in mono- and bilinguals. There
is widespread consensus that based on a general reanalysis process of the third
person paradigm, the grade of feature variability is fundamentally dependent on
educational opportunities and not on multilingualism (Cerrón Palomino 1987,
1992, 2003; Caravedo 1999, among many others). Speciﬁcally, Caravedo (1999)
sees the third person feature variability in Andean Spanish and Amazonian
Spanish as a functional variation. The diﬀerence in use between agreeing and
non-agreeing clitics in grammatical and anaphoric agreement applies to mono-
lingual as well as bilingual speakers of Limeño Spanish contact varieties. These
facts strengthen the reanalysis hypothesis and validate the distinction based on
syntactic and pragmatic strategies. The most interesting part of the Limeño
Spanish contact varieties variability is that speakers use invariant lo as a topicality,
31 The deﬁnition of attrited refers to heritage speaker. It is usually the ﬁrst generation of migrants
not speaking the parents’ language any longer but living in contact with the language.
32 The Quechumaran Hypothesis (Campbell 1995) proposing the existence of a distant genetic
relationship between Quechua and Aymara is still unconﬁrmed. Given the strong semantic and
structural parallels between the two languages, as well as the geographical restriction of
Aymara speakers to the southernmost part of Peru, Aymara has not been treated here as a
separate factor in contact. Also, as Cerrón Palomino (1994) demonstrated by extensive research
notes and published material, the diﬀerences between the two Amerindian languages are
mainly lexical.
184 Variation and continuity in time and space
speciﬁcally secondary topic marker and/or transitivity marker. This is also
the most intrinsic part of the variability, speciﬁcally because of its perceived
ungrammaticality.
In dialects with extensive leísmo, le replaces the direct object clitics lo, la for
all human and inanimate feminine and masculine direct objects. This consti-
tutes a signiﬁcant extension from standard Peninsular Spanish leísmo, referring
mainly to male human direct object arguments, the more so as it also involves
extending diﬀerential object marking to inanimate objects, which opens clitic
doubling to core and non-core object arguments,33 and, as a by-product, admits
semantic ambiguity as discussed referring to example (161). However, not all
dialects go all the way.
Quiteño34 and Paraguayan Spanish exhibit the most advanced stage of
pronominal reanalysis. Andean Spanish and Limeño Spanish contact varieties
exhibit various degrees of covariation of leísmo and loísmo, with occasional
laísmo mainly restricted to anaphora. Paraguay is normally listed as one of the
extensive leísmo regions, but it also shows the cline between urban and rural
areas, where laísmo occurs to some extent in the former, as demonstrated in
(154c), and loísmo to varying degrees in the latter.
The twofold clitic doubling strategies (leísmo and loísmo) demonstrate the
syntactic motivation for the dative-accusative alternation in monotransitive clauses
in Limeño Spanish contact varieties. They show the syntactic and pragmatic
strategies non-standardized dialects apply to mark the accusative as the primary
object and secondary topic by extending diﬀerential object marking to inanimates
and using invariant lo, and to a much lesser extent la, as topic-marker and/or
transitivity marker.35 These strategies preferentially require an active agent and
a theme argument as will be discussed further in the ﬁnal chapter six.
My Limeño Spanish contact varieties data show no evidence of the cluster
variability mentioned in Ordóñez (2002) and Heap (1998), the reverse clitic order
described there (e.g. me se) is absent from the Latin American data I had access
to. Andean Spanish and Limeño Spanish contact varieties show the covariation
of third person clusters se lo, se le which is due to leísmo, and ‘redundant’
33 Note that in some contact dialects even prepositional phrases can be doubled.
34 Suñer and Yépez (1988) and Suñer (1989) deliberately restrict the variability they are describ-
ing to the capital of Ecuador. Vincent (2001) and others refer to extensive leísmo in Ecuador.
As a dialect speaker myself, I am aware of regional diﬀerences, as well as rural and urban
preferences, and use both interchangeably.
35 My data suggest that lo, when co-occurring with diﬀerential object marking, is in the process
of evolving from topic marker to secondary topic and transitivity marker, apparently giving rise
to a new accusative casemarker. This however may only be symptomatic of a stage on the way
to extensive leísmo.
Summary 185
lo with the latter phenomenon occurring to a lesser extent in Limeño Spanish
contact varieties. Under extensive leísmo the cluster se le replaces se lo and, as
mentioned above lo becomes a null element. In utterances with a highly agen-
tive or overt subject and a highly aﬀected patient object, Limeño Spanish contact
varieties data show laísmo. Cases of ﬂoating agreement include number and
gender, a fact strongly connected to ongoing grammaticalization processes
aﬀecting the third person clitic paradigm as discussed in chapters two and four.
Object drop in Limeño Spanish contact varieties is frequent, as in other
varieties in contact with Basque (Spain), Northern Quechua (Ecuador), Guaraní
(Paraguay), Amazonian languages and Brazilian Portuguese among others.
The common factor here is that speciﬁcally under extensive leísmo conditions,
deﬁnite patient or theme preverbal or postverbal objects are dropped as long as
they are recoverable from the immediate context. This is particularly noticeable
in clitic clusters where only direct object clitics are dropped. Here the correlation
to topic marking is obvious and can be related directly to secondary topic drop.36
In pro-drop languages, null arguments comprise pronominal subjects and objects.
The extension from the subject as primary topic to the object as secondary topic
seems to be a natural consequence. Brazilian Portuguese stands out as a peculiar
case especially in relation to the absence of object clitics in general use and in
promoting full pronouns instead of third person clitics. Unlike European
Portuguese which exhibits a full clitic system, Brazilian Portuguese shows a
double object marking strategy based on animacy. In this respect the diﬀerence
in morphological clitic status must be considered.
36 Cooccurrence of direct object clitic doubling and object drop has also been linked to marking
“topicality and referent tracking” by Silva-Corvalán (2001).
186 Variation and continuity in time and space
Chapter 6
Contact and change
In Limeño Spanish contact varieties, concurrent grammaticalization processes
aﬀecting head- and dependent-marking gave rise to a mix of semantic and prag-
matic strategies in object marking and to a new relationship between clitic form
and function. The focus of this chapter is on how contact as an external factor,
together with the internal changes, may be linked to a language change in
progress. Based on notable pragmatic similarities of the Quechua topic marker
-qa and Spanish invariant lo as secondary topic marker, I argue that contact
is a likely trigger factor for the pragmatic marking we ﬁnd in contact dialects.
I also claim that both morphologically inﬂected third-person clitic paradigms
compete against each other within their respective paradigms for a featurally
unmarked form to mark the primary object/secondary topic in clitic doubling.
6.1 Contact in Peruvian Spanish
Peru is home to just over one hundred languages with two major Spanish
dialects with bilingual and monolingual varieties.1 Andean Spanish is the result
of roughly ﬁve hundred years of Spanish in contact with Amerindian languages
such as Quechuan and Aymaran. Amazonian Spanish stems from contact with
Amazonian languages (Arawakan, Panoan, Cahuapanan, Zaparoan, Yaguan,
and others). Since the nineteen forties, massive migration has brought Andean
Spanish, and to a much lesser extent Amazonian Spanish, into contact with
coastal Spanish, resulting in a fairly rapid langage shift (Klee and Caravedo
2005; Mayer 2008; Mayer and Delicado Cantero 2015).
As transfer in Peru ﬂows from Quechua and Aymara through Andean Spanish
and from Amazonian languages through Amazonian Spanish, the mediating
languages to Limeño Spanish contact varieties, which in turn have come into
contact with Lima Spanish, the prestigious norm, we are looking at several
simultaneous and superimposed scenarios of uni- and bidirectional grammatical
borrowing. Quechua and Andean Spanish show gradual convergence due to
prolonged coexistence, most notably on the phonetic level and to some extent
in object marking strategies (Cerrón Palomino 1987; Muysken 1981, 2001; Sánchez
2003, 2004, 2005). The same applies to Amazonian Spanish in contact with the
Amazonian indigenous languages. However, mere proximity of two languages is
DOI 10.1515/9781614514213-006
1 A ﬁrst overview of Peruvian Spanish is Benvenutto Murrieta (1936).
not enough for syntactic convergence. As mentioned by Appel and Muysken
(1987), it is imaginable that a large number of people speaking two languages
will start using the same structures for the following two reasons. Either purely
internally motivated resulting in similar structures in another language, or through
the borrowing of structures from a contact language because the internal structure
of the borrowing language allows it. Another possibility would be that a third
language may inﬂuence the two converging languages independently.
The hypothesis brought forward in this chapter is that the existence of similar
structures in contact languages facilitates transfer and speeds up language
change. This language external process falls on the fertile ground of a long
standing and well documented language with an inherently unstable and highly
variable pronominal reference and object marking system. An immediate result
is simpliﬁed and scalar clitic systems and a complex mix of object marking
patterns.
I begin the discussion with Basque as an important point of comparison to
Peninsular Spanish contact and continue with Amazonian and Andean Spanish
object marking. Based on this, the hypothesis of potential transfer of Quechua
word order and functional marking is discussed followed by semantic marking
strategies and their relation to typological change.
6.1.1 Comparison with Basque
Basque is a split ergative language isolate with subject-object-verb word order
with a rich case system. Cases are morphologically attached as postpositional
aﬃxes to the last nominal constituents; verb-argument relations are head- and
dependent-marked. Basque like Quechua lacks grammatical gender. Dative verb
agreement is optional if anaphoric recoverability from the context obtains. This
is like Andean Spanish, where accusative agreement is obligatory and dative
optional.
Head- and dependent marking is shown in (206). The subject, the direct
object and the indirect object are obligatorily cross-referenced on the ﬁnite
verb, showing number and person agreement. The auxiliary, as the ﬁnal con-
stituent of the verb phrase, carries all markers, including tense aspect markers.
(206) Basque (Saltarelli 1988: 2)
Gu-k gizon-ei liburu-ak ema-n d-i-eza-zki-e-ke-gu.
we-E man-PD book-PA give-PRF 3A-3D-D-(PRS)-AUX-PD-POT-1PE
‘We can give the books to the men.’
188 Contact and change
Ergative, absolutive or dative nominal casemarkers can be omitted freely, as the
obligatory doubles or copies crossreference the object on the verb providing
information about person and number as shown in (207).
(207) Basque (Saltarelli 1988: 3)2
Ema-n d-i-eza-zki-e-ke-gu.
give-PRF 3A-3D-(PRS)-AUX-PA-PD-POT-1PE
‘(We) can give (them) (to them).’
Pro-drop in Basque extends to subject and object arguments, including free
pronouns which are marked for person (ﬁrst, second and third), number and
ten cases (absolutive, ergative, dative, genitive, comitative, benefactive, modal/
instrumental, locative, allative and ablative). Important to note is that pro-drop
does not extend to focus elements. Curiously, in Basque animacy is not a distin-
guishing factor in object marking. Therefore, and as has already been mentioned
in chapter ﬁve, modern Basque Spanish object marking cannot be traced back
solely to transfer from Basque, but needs to be linked to language-internal
changes as well, a contact situation very similar to Spanish.
Jendraschek (2007) argues that some contact-induced changes, such as
neutralization of the morphosyntactic distinction between indirect and direct
objects, are borrowings from contact with Romance. Although Basque distin-
guishes between syntactic functions by head- and dependent-marking, verbal
morphology often lacks a distinction between direct and indirect objects in
colloquial Basque and is replaced instead by case-speciﬁc auxiliaries. In (208a)
the indirect object recipient is encoded in the auxiliary dit, the direct object in
(208b) is encoded in the auxiliary nau.
(208) Basque (Jendraschek 2007: 159)
a. Ogi-a ekarr-i di-t.
bread-DET bring-PARTIC PRES-3SGABS-1SGIO (3SGERG)
‘He brought me the bread.’
b. Kotxe-an ekarri-i nau.
car-LOC bring-PARTIC PRES-1SGABS (3SGERG)
‘He brought me (here) by car.’
The extended use of the direct object auxiliary nau illustrated in (209) is an
example of neutralization of the two object functions. Jendraschek traces this
2 I keep the formatting of the glosses as used in Saltarelli (1988). Glosses: PRS = present tense,
PD = plural dative, PA = plural absolutive, PRF = perfective aspect, POT = potential (tense).
Contact in Peruvian Spanish 189
back to the Spanish and French case syncretic clitic me as in me ha traido/il
m’a apporté (he has brought me), and proposes an analysis of translational
equivalents (me ha: nau) over one arguing for genuine syntactic change.
(209) Basque (Jendraschek 2007: 155)3
Ogi-a ekarr-i nau.
bread-DET bring-PARTIC PRES-1SGABS (3SGERG)
‘He brought me the bread.’
Proof of a syntactic diﬀerence in both cases is given by “the fact that the
diﬀerent bound morphemes on the auxiliary correspond to diﬀerent cases of
the optional emphatic pronouns” (Jendraschek 2007: 155), here niri in (210a) vs.
ni in (210b).
(210) Basque (Jendraschek 2007: 155–166)
a. Ogi-a ni-ri ekarr-i di-t.
bread-DET 1SG-DAT bring-PARTIC.PRES-3SGABS-1SGIO (3SGERG)
‘He brought me the bread.’
b. Kotxe-an ni ekarr-i nau.
car-LOC SG (ABS) bring-PARTIC PRES-1SGABS (3SGERG)
‘He brought me (here) by car.’
Contact Basque seems to show a general tendency to develop analytical forms
and increased usage of preﬁxes and postposed relatives. This is treated as an
inﬂuence from a grammaticalization that has taken place in Spanish and is
being “imitated in Basque through calques that introduce a new grammatical
construction” by adding a semantic feature (Jendraschek 2007: 160). This is the
inverse strategy from Limeño Spanish contact varieties and other dialects that
show an increase of pragmatic strategies over semantic and showing convergence
with Quechua semantic marking.
6.2 Amazonian Spanish
Apart from lexical borrowings, notable contact-induced traits of Amazonian
Spanish are word order restructure, clitic reduplication and variability in
dependent-marking.
3 This example is based on Laﬁtte (1944/2001).
190 Contact and change
6.2.2 Contact with Brazilian Portguese
In Brazilian Portuguese, a Romance language very closely related to Spanish,
third-person object clitics are experiencing substantial changes possibly due to
isomorphism, in other words, increasing syncretism as shown in (211). The mascu-
line singular determiner o in (211a) is syncretic with the preverbal masculine
singular direct object clitic o in (211b). The feminine determiner and the object
clitic a show the same syncretism.
(211) Brazilian Portuguese
a. Eu conheci o João numa festa.
PRO1SG meet-PAST-1SG DET.MSG João PREP-INDEF.SG party
‘I met João at a party.’
b. Eu o conheci numa festa.
PRO1SG CL3MSG meet-PAST-1SG PREP-INDEF-FSG party
‘I met him at a party.’
These syncretic forms pave the way for the direct object clitics to be replaced by
free pronouns (212a), which in turn can undergo object drop as in (212b).
(212) Brazilian Portuguese (Farrell 1990: 327–328)
a. Eu conheci ele numa festa.
PRO1SG meet-PAST-1SG PRO3MSG PREP-INDEF.SG party
‘I met him at a party.’
b. Eu conheci Ø numa festa.
PRO1SG meet-PAST-1SG Ø PREP-INDEF.SG party
‘I met him at a party.’
Farrell (1990: 344) draws a parallel between Brazilian Portuguese and Ecuadorian
Spanish, speciﬁcally Quiteño, object drop, arguing for both empty positions to
be analyzed as strong pronouns and as opposed to empty topics. In the case of
the indirect object clitics (lhe(s)), strong pronouns are introduced by the case
marker a or by the preposition para, showing a development parallel to Limeño
Spanish contact varieties. The important diﬀerences are that, as argued by Farrell
(1990: 372), both third-person object clitic paradigms are competing with full
pronouns,4 producing two parallel systems especially in colloquial speech,
triggering object drop preferentially of direct objects. Spanish shares the object
4 This includes also the impersonal a gente replacing ﬁrst person plural pronouns postverbally
in some colloquial varieties.
Amazonian Spanish 191
drop strategy but not the competition between object pronouns and strong pro-
nouns. Brazilian Portuguese contact Spanish at the Colombian-Brazilian border
produces examples like (213a) showing direct object drop, lack of diﬀerential
object marking and clitic doubling. Standard Spanish in (213b), on the other
hand, exhibits full production of the pronominal object and diﬀerential object
marking since clitic doubling with a strong pronoun is obligatory except under
limited circumstances as discussed above.
(213) Amazonian Spanish, Leticia (Rodriguez de Montes 1981: 85)
a. Cuando él Øi mira Ø nosotrosi.
when PRO3MSG Ø look-3SG Ø PRO1MPL
‘When he looks at us.’
b. Standard Spanish
Cuando él nos mira (a nosotros).
when PRO3MSG CL1PL look-3SG (DOM PRO1MPL)
‘When he looks at us.’
Contact-induced variability in (213a) does not obtain in Spanish in contact with
European Portuguese, which has feature-speciﬁc object clitics like Peninsular
Spanish though diﬀering in morphological status (as described in section 2.1).
6.2.3 Contact with Ashéninka-Perené5
Ashéninka-Perené is an endangered dialect of the Ashaninka languages which
are Arawakan languages spoken in central Peru. It is a nominative/accusative
language with split intransitivity conditioned by grammatical and pragmatic
factors. Unlike Spanish, Ashéninka has rich subject and objet agreement. Subject
pronons are verbal preﬁxes and object pronouns are aﬃxes. The third-person
pronoun stem -ri is shared with the demonstratives, distinguishing between
anaphoric and cataphoric reference as shown in Table 6.1. Cataphoric references
are driven by attaching the preﬁx ‘h’ to the anaphoric pronoun, for example,
anaphoric near is irika (masculine) and iroka (feminine) vs. cataphoric hirika
(masculine) and hiroka (feminine), with the Perené dialect showing more
5 Brazilian Portuguese is also in contact with several Ashaninka groups who migrated across the
border. There is no research yet on the potential Romance continuum in their bilingual Spanish
and Portuguese.
192 Contact and change
distinctive forms related to relative distance from the speaker. This dialect also
has apart from gender-speciﬁc forms a gender-neutral form to refer to either
masculine or feminine objects.
Table 6.1: Ashéninka-Perené demonstrative pronouns (Reed and Payne 1986: 330)
ADVERBS ANAPHORIC CATAPHORIC
haka irika (yoka)
iroka
hirika
hiroka
(hiraka)
‘near m’
‘near f’
‘near m or f”
(ara) (yora)
(irora)
(hirira)
(hirora)
(hirara)
‘far-1 m’
‘far-1 f’
‘far-1 m or f”
hanta irinta (yonta)
ironta
hirinta
hironta
(hiranta)
‘far-2 m’
‘far-2 f’
‘far-2 m or f’
hantó irintó
irontó
hirintó
hirontó
(hirantó)
‘far-3 m’
‘far-3 f’
‘far-3 m or f’
The common genesis of the Ashéninka-Perené and Spanish third-person para-
digm from demonstratives, as well as the expression of third person gender-
speciﬁc and gender-nonspeciﬁc marker is an important parallel which is reﬂected
in my Ashéninka Spanish contact data. They show extensive leísmo even with
primary transitive verbs6 and lack of diﬀerential object marking with human
highly aﬀected patients in (214a), and gender and number neutralization and
clitic reduplication in (214b). Clitic reduplication as shown in examples (214b)
and (215a) is another very productive and speciﬁc trait and can be traced back
to the fact that all arguments in transitive constructions require obligatory
pronominal agreement resulting in convergence.
(214) Ashéninka Spanish in contact with Ashéninka-Perené (Mayer-FW)
a. Esos chunches hay que matarles.
DEM.MPL chunches must that kill-INF.CL3SG
‘Those wild tribesmen have to be killed.’7
b. Le vamos brindarle nuestroi danzasi.
CL3SG go-1PL give-INF.CL3SG POSS-1MPL dances.FPL
‘We are going to oﬀer our dances to you.’
6 See Andrews and Manning (1999) for an explanation for Standard Spanish.
7 Normally it is chunchos, the term refers to an ethnic group living in the Andean and Amazonian
regions in Peru at the time of the Spanish conquista.
Amazonian Spanish 193
Example (215b) is representative of the entire range of object marking variability
in one single sentence. It shows lack of diﬀerential object marking for the
deﬁnite, specifc human subject, non-agreeing gender in the immediately follow-
ing direct object anaphoric clitic, human third-person marking with indirect
object clitic reduplication and lo as transitivity marker.
(215) Ashéninka Spanish (Mayer-FW)
a. Le estamos hablándole.
CL3SG are-1PL talk-GERUND.CL3SG
‘We are talking to you.’8
b. Que Ø el Curacai lai agarraron, lei torturaron
that Ø the priest CL3FSG catch-PAST-3PL CL3SG torture-PAST-3PL
pero no loi han podido matarlei.
but not CL3MSG have-3PL can-PARTIC kill-inf.CL3SG
“That they captured the priest, they tortured him but they could
not kill him.’
Ashéninka-Perené bilingual Spanish and Northern Peruvian Andean Spanish
share a common diﬀerential object marking variant with diﬀerent locative prepo-
sitions. Northern Peru uses the locative onde which is equivalent to donde9 as
diﬀerential object marker instead of a as in the example (216a) for Ashéninka-
Perené Spanish and in (261b) for Northern Andean Spanish. Ashéninka-Perené
Spanish uses the peposition en instead in (216c).
(216) Northern Peru (Bossong 1991: 148)
a. Buscaré onde ‘l corderito más gordo.
seek-FUT-1SG DAT=ACC DET lamb most fat
‘I shall look for the fattest lamb.’
Northern Andean Spanish, Cabana, Pallasca (Andrade 2012: 219)
b. Que lo miraba, dice, onde ella, la Virgen.
that CL3 look-PAST-3SG say-3SG DOM PRO3FSG the virgen
‘That s(he) looked, s(he) said at the Virgin.’
Ashéninka-Perené Spanish (Mayer and Sánchez 2016, 2017b, 2017c)
c. Le iba Ø picar semejante culebra
CL3SG is-PAST-3SG PREP bite-INF such-big snake
en su bebita.
PREP POSS baby.DIMIN
‘Such a big snake was going to bite her little baby.’
8 Meaning really: ‘I am talking to you.’
9 The locative donde is also used to link clauses and topics.
194 Contact and change
Verbal agreement is reduced to second and third person singular and third-
person plural with some verbs. Clitic reduplication with either two dative clitics
or a mix of accusative lo followed by dative le can be a possible result of con-
vergence due to similar subject and object agreement in Spanish. Ashéninka-
Perené bilingual Spanish shows contact-induced simpliﬁcation in the clitic
paradigm with invariant lo as a topic and transitivity marker speciﬁcally in clitic
reduplication.
6.2.4 Contact with Yagua
Payne and Payne (1990) describe Yagua spoken in the north-eastern part of Peru
reaching into the Colombian Amazon region. This verb-subject-object language
of the Peba-Yaguan language family marks determiner phrase object arguments
with a coreferential clitic as shown in (217) and (218). Yagua has a set of proclitics
and enclitics, both sets are morphologically similar but only the third-person
singular paradigm shows completely diﬀerent forms (Payne and Payne 1990:
364). Locality condition and animacy constraints are interesting especially for
the object enclitic níí. It is not attached to the object itself but to any constituent
preceding the object to be marked. Also, animacy as a grammatical category is
not based on biological grounds as can be seen in (217b), where pineapple is
treated as animate10 like the co-occurring human patient object in (217a) marked
on the locative phrase by níí. The proclitic sa marks the agent.
(217) Yagua (Payne and Payne 1990: 376)
a. Sa-púúchiy Pauro rooriy-viimu-níí Anita.
3SGSUBJ-lead/carry Paul house-inside-3SGOBJ Anita
‘Paul leads/carries Anita inside/at the house.
Yagua (Payne and Payne 1990: 365)
b. Sa-vaąąta-níí niintyu.
3-want-3SG.ANIM pineapple
‘He wants the pineapple.’
In the next example the proclitic sa marks the agent. The postpositional enclitic
object marker -níí doubles an animate patient argument in (218a) and (218b) and
appears as in (217a) on the locative phrase instead of the patient argument.
10 Animate status in Yagua includes “rocks, fans, brooms, the moon, stars, mirrors and photo-
graphs” (Payne and Payne 1990: 376).
Amazonian Spanish 195
(218) Yagua (Payne and Payne 1990: 255)
a. Sa-jimyiy Alchíco-níí quiivą.
3SG-SUBJ-eat Alchico-3SGOBJ ﬁsh
‘Alchico is eating the ﬁsh.’
b. Sa-jimyiy-níí quiivą.
3SG-SUBJ-eat-3SGOBJ ﬁsh
‘He is eating the ﬁsh.’
c. Sa-jimyiy sinu-mu-níí quiivą.
3SG-SUBJ-eat land-LOC-3SGII ﬁsh
‘He is eating the ﬁsh on land.’
Yagua contact Spanish reﬂects very liberal clitic doubling like Lima Spanish
(and also River Plate). In fact, topical direct objects in Yagua seem to be more
marked than non-topical direct objects (Payne and Payne 1990) albeit on a
diﬀerent animacy hierarchy.11
To sum up this section about similarities and diﬀerences in contact lan-
guages discussed here. Both contact Spanish varieties, Amazonian Spanish and
colloquial Basque Spanish seem to show an inverse development. While in
Basque the increasing importance and occurrence of the accusative auxiliary
nau points towards object neutralization in favour of the accusative, object
marking in Amazonian Spanish shows varying outcomes according to contact.
In Colombian Spanish in contact with Brazilian Portuguese object marking
disappears, the direct object is dropped and clitic doubling does not obtain.
Peruvian Amazonian Spanish in contact with other Amazonian languages, like
Yagua and Ashéninka-Perené for example, shows very similar variability to Limeño
Spanish contact varieties in exhibiting lo as topic and transitivity marker, exten-
sive leísmo doubling and clitic reduplication, with the latter restricted to Spanish
in contact with Ashéninka-Perené.
6.2.5 Quechua
Quechua and Spanish are typologically distant languages. Information structure
in the subject-verb-object language Spanish is encoded in syntax and prosody
(O’Rourke 2004, 2005). In Quechua, information-structure is expressed in mor-
phology and syntax (O’Rourke 2009). Quechua diﬀerential object marking is
11 Based on a slightly modiﬁed version of the well known distinction into head- and dependent-
marking (Nichols 1986), Sinnemäki (2008: 74) categorizes patient-marking in Yagua as dependent-
marking.
196 Contact and change
mainly regulated by semantic strategies and correlation with information struc-
ture is incidental, classifying it as type two in the typology of diﬀerential object
marking languages (Dalrymple and Nikolaeva 2011: 215). Recall that Spanish is a
type three (a) language where semantic and pragmatic marking are governed by
the topicality of the object.
Since Landerman’s (1991) review of former classiﬁcations of the Quechua
languages, the strict twofold classiﬁcation into Central Quechua and all others,
based on ﬁrst person, has been modiﬁed to a language family of closely related
languages of many dialects showing considerable variability – a situation com-
parable to the Romance language family as suggested by Muysken (1989: 4)
while avoiding the term dialect. The comparison with Romance allows us to
classify Quechua languages as belonging to the same genetic group but for which
one speaks of diﬀerent languages where some variability can be characterised as
a dialect continuum. During the Inca Empire, the southern variety of Quechua,
or Quechua II, served as the lingua franca (Cerrón Palomino 1987; Chirinos
Rivera 2001).
Quechua is a left branching (subject)-object-verb language with free word
order in main clauses, where arguments are extensively marked by case and
agreement (Cerrón Palomino 1987; Lefebvre and Muysken 1988). A distinctive
feature is that pronouns, nouns and adjectives form a single category. Quechua
is also a two-person language12 distinguishing between human and non-human
referents for the third person. The nonhuman third-person is identical with the
demonstrative, this however varies from dialect to dialect and has to be taken
into account (Weber 1989). Cusihuamán (1976: 108) argues that Quechua lacks
third-person clitics and that names are replaced by personal pronouns. Verbal
inﬂection shows morphological marking of ﬁrst and second person for direct
and indirect objects, third-person is not cross-referenced on the verb, but is a
zero morpheme as shown in (219a). Compare this with the Spanish example
(219b) which has a feature-distinguishing full paradigm.
(219) Quechua (Escobar 1990: 86)
a. Ø riku-ni.
Ø see-INF-1SG
‘I see Ø (him/her/it/them).’
12 I follow here the distinction in Bhat (2004) where a two-person language has only two personal
pronouns, one for the speaker and the other for the addressee. A three-person language has an
additional third person pronoun, denoting a person diﬀerent from speaker and addressee. The
World Atlas of Language Structures Online available at http://wals.info/features/chapter43, oﬀers
extensive documentation on the relationship between third-person pronouns and demonstratives.
Amazonian Spanish 197
Standard Spanish
b. Lo(s) / la(s) / le(s) veo.
CL3MSG(PL) / CL3FSG(PL) / CL3SG(PL) see-1SG
‘I see him/her/it/them.’
The lack of a third-person object clitic paradigm is most important for the
apparent free variation of third-person clitics found in Andean Spanish. Camacho
and Sánchez (2002: 37) show that competing case in both grammars, Quechua
and Spanish contact, allows for permeability and transfer concluding that
“dialects in contact with Quechua can simplify either in favour of the dative or
the accusative”.
Quechua has a very complex postverbal agreement system where subject
and object marking is dependent on the relation between subject and object.
Subjects are casemarked with agreement markers, and only special subjects
receive casemarking (nominative and genitive by inﬂection). Objects are marked
on the verb either in terms of the non-subject function, or dependent on the
semantic roles Theme, Source and Goal, or in relation to the verbal subcategori-
zation frame. There is no distinction between transitive and intransitive verbs.
Quechua follows the classic nominal marking pattern of nominative-
accusative languages in marking the object with the object marker -ta which
has multiple functions. In its marking function (i), it marks the accusative based
on the thematic roles patient, theme; the dative, except recipients which are
marked by prepositions; and goal and locative arguments; and (ii) it acts as a
transitiviser. As Lefebvre and Muysken (1988: 261) remark “object marking is
sensitive to argument status: not only must the NP be a constituent of the matrix
VP, it has to be an argument of the matrix verb”.
Accusative marking is shown in (219), where the nominative subject is
unmarked on the noun, but cross-referenced on the verb. Every component of
the direct object argument in this Northern Peruvian Quechua variety receives
accusative marking (219b).13
(219) Cajamarca Quechua (Bossong 2003: 25)
a. Noqa-Ø Lurinsu-ta tinku-rqa-ni nañ-pi.
PRO1SG-NOM Lorenzo-ACC meet-PAST-1SG way-LOC
‘I met Lorenzo on the way.’
b. Taytay-Ø tanta-ta ﬁdiyus-ta arrus-ta ranti-rqa-n.
POSS-father-NOM bread-ACC noodles-ACC rice-ACC buy-PAST-3SG
‘My father bought bread, noodles and rice.’
13 Note that not all Quechua varieties mark all parts of the object.
198 Contact and change
The case suﬃx –ta in (220a) can also be used to mark Goal arguments and in
(220b) to express motion through space as perlative case in Ayacucho Quechua.
(220) Ancash Quechua (Cole 1985: 2-3)
a. [Lima-ta chaari-r] rikaari-shaq amigu-uta.
Lima-ACC arrive-SEQ-SS see-FUT-1SG friend-my-ACC
‘After arriving in Lima, I’ll see my friend.’
Ayacucho Quechua (Adelaar and Muysken 2004: 215)
b. Urku-n-ta ri-n.
mountain-3POSS-ACC go-3SUBJ
‘It goes through the mountain.’
The claim that Quechua object marking has double actant marking is based on
the interaction of an animacy hierarchy (ﬁrst person > second person > third
person) and an object-subject constraint (Lakämper and Wunderlich 1998: 127).
This is a strong parallel to Limeño Spanish contact varieties, possibly due to
convergence. Object marking as shown in (221), only occurs if the (object) person
outranks the subject on the animacy hierarchy.
(221) Quechua (Lakämper and Wunderlich 1998: 128)
a. Quam-ta rika-r-ni-(y)ki. 1/2
you-ACC see-SS-ni-2
‘When I see you.’
b. Rika-shu-r-ni-(y)ki. 3/2
see-OBJ-SS-ni-2
‘When he/she sees you.’
In Quechua double object constructions, we ﬁnd objective and dative case
alternation with animate objects. In some varieties, such as Imbabura Quechua
(Ecuador, part of Northern Quechua) and Tarma Quechua (Peru, central Andean
Southern variety) absence of morphological marking of direct objects is permitted
under adjacency conditions; this is not the case for Cuzco Quechua. Lefebvre and
Muysken (1988) analyze all elements marking case, number, tense, and person
on nominalised verbs as aﬃxes and not clitics.
An important diﬀerence between the head-ﬁnal language Quechua and
Spanish is that case in Quechua in (222a) is morphologically marked by case
suﬃxes (Cerrón Palomino 1987), and in Spanish in (222b) by prepositions (Sánchez
2012).
Amazonian Spanish 199
(222) Ulcumayo Quechua (Sánchez 2012: 511)
a. Huk runa-n pukl-ya-n algu-wan.
One man-FOC/EVID play-PROG-3SG dog-COM
‘A man plays with a dog.’
Spanish (Sánchez 2012: 511)
b. Un hombre juega con un perro.
A man play-3SG PREP a dog
‘A man plays with a dog.’
As (222a) shows, Quechua lacks overt determiners and therefore does not show
morphologically the deﬁnite-indeﬁnite distinction on nominals which is an impor-
tant aspect in diﬀerential object marking dependent on the semantic properties
deﬁniteness and animacy. Andean Spanish, the Spanish contact variety born out
of dialect contact with Standard Spanish and Amerindian Languages, clearly
reﬂects this diﬀerence in casemarking.
6.2.6 Andean Spanish
Andean Spanish is neither a discrete nor homogeneous variety, shaped through
ﬁve hundred years of continuous language contact with Spanish and Amerindian
languages. It represents a dialect continuum involving monolingual and bilingual
speakers from close to Standard Spanish to strongly inﬂuenced by Quechua and
is generally classiﬁed as a dialect based on the following facts: it shows particular
phonological (assibilation of /r/ → [ř], vowel alternation of mid and high vowels –
Quechua has no mid vowels); lexical borrowings; and speciﬁc grammatical
characteristics (Cerrón Palomino 2003; de Granda 2001; Pérez 1997). The geo-
graphic extension reaches from the southern part of Colombia, through Ecuador,
Bolivia, and Peru into the northern provinces of Argentina (Santiago de Estero).
I follow Escobar (1994), Cerrón Palomino (2003) and others in not making a
distinction between Bilingual Spanish and Andean Spanish as there is no
perceivable diﬀerence with regard to the behaviour of clitic doubling as object
marking.
The following points of variability in clitic usage in Andean Spanish have
been attributed to Quechua inﬂuences (Adelaar and Muysken 2004: 595–597):
a partial scalar clitic inventory on a continuum based on case; and leísmo and
invariant lo as topicality and transitivity marker.14 The latter refers to the seem-
ingly redundant appearance of an invariant clitic lo in monotransitive con-
structions (Cerrón Palomino 2003). According to Pérez (1997), Andean Spanish
14 See Coronel-Molina and Rodríguez-Mondoñedo (2012) for a very comprehensive overview re
Universal Grammar and Language contact in the Andean region.
200 Contact and change
speakers have practically collapsed the third-person clitic paradigm and re-
analyzed the gender, number and case, discerning Spanish object agreement
system as a unique category with free variation of all possibilities. Caravedo
(1990) argues for Andean Spanish and Amazon Spanish that all pronouns have
lost their original referential function and are mere remnants of an unstable
system in the process of dissolving.
Examples (223) and (224) highlight the diﬀerences in object marking for
Standard Spanish, Andean Spanish and Quechua, with (223) showing the previ-
ously mentioned sole category of the third-person object clitic paradigm.
(223) Andean Spanish (Pérez 1997: 36)
Juan lei / loi / lai conoce a mi mamái.
Juan CL3SG / CL3MSG / CL3FSG knows-3SG DOM POSS mother
‘Juan knows my mother’
Pérez ascribes the absence of the obligatory direct object clitic in the preposed
construction in Andean Spanish in (224b) to a direct transfer from the Quechua
object-verb agreement system as in example (224a). Dislocated (or preposed)
noun phrase arguments in Standard Spanish (224c) require an immediate pre-
verbally located pronominal copy. This applies to direct and indirect objects as
well as to leísmo constructions.
(224) Quechua (Pérez 1997: 42)
a. Huwan-ta riqis-ni llaq-ta-y-man-ta.
Huwan-ACC know-1SG town-POSS-1SG-from
‘I know Huwan from my town.’
Andean Spanish (Pérez 1997: 35)
b. A Juan Ø conozco de mi pueblo.
OM Juan Ø know-1SG PREP POSS village
‘I know Juan from my village.’
Standard Spanish (Pérez 1997: 36)
c. A Juan *(lo) conozco de mi pueblo.
OM Juan CL3MSG know-1SG PREP POSS village
‘I know Juan from my village.’
As already shown for Amazon Spanish third-person, clitic reduplication as in
(225) with complex predicates also obtains in Andean Spanish.
Amazonian Spanish 201
(225) Andean Spanish (Luján 1987: 117)
Me está castigándome.
CL1SG is-3SG punishing-me-1SG
‘(S) he is punishing me.’
At the southern end of the Andean Spanish geographic extension, the variability
exposed above has also been reported for Chile.15 Limeño Spanish contact
varieties are part of the Andean Spanish continuum, with migrant speakers of
ﬁrst, second and third generation from the Andean regions to the capital Lima,
exhibiting a scalar range of variability in morphosyntactic objective marking
due to dominant vs. balanced competencies.
6.3 The pointing eﬀect of lo and (-ta) -qa
Given the multifunctional use of the Quechua casemarker -ta, overgeneraliza-
tion of a functionally partially equivalent form in Spanish could be attributed
in part to it (Lipski 1994, 2007a, 2007b, 2014; Paredes 1996: 30). Another pro-
posal towards an explanation of a potential transfer of pragmatic strategies
included word order transfer (Pérez 1997). A distinction into referential and
non-referential lo is drawn by Calvo (2000), with the latter being analyzed
as transitivity and possible aspect marker. In Huallaga Quechua, the object
marker -ta is treated as a simple postposition heading object noun phrases
(Weber 1993: 96).
Lipski (1996, 2007b) and Pérez (1997) treat the grammaticalized featureless
form lo as an accusative marker for the direct object. The suﬃx -ta is located at
the right edge of its object, and, due to basic (subject)-object-verb Quechua word
order, happens to appear in preverbal position. Therefore, by virtue of locality
co-occurrence in preverbal position of the Quechua accusative casemarker -ta
in (226a) and (226c), and Spanish invariant lo, non-agreeing direct object mark-
ing as in (226b) and (226d) is explained as the transfer of the dependent-marker
-ta and the head-marker lo from Quechua to Spanish.
(226) Lipski (2007b: 3)16
a. T’ika-ta kuchu-ni.
Flower-ACC cut-1SG
‘I cut the ﬂower.’
b. Lo corto la ﬂor.
CL3MSG cut-1SG DET.FSG ﬂower
‘I cut the ﬂower.’
15 See Silva-Corvalán (1989) for an extended discussion.
16 Accessed online at http://www.personal.psu.edu/jm/34/papers.htm.
202 Contact and change
c. Ima-ta kuchi-ni?
what-ACC cut-1SG
‘What do I cut?’
d. ¿Qué lo corto?
what CL3MSG cut-1SG
‘What do I cut?’
As shown in (226b) and (226d), contact speakers may misinterpret the relation-
ship between form and meaning, and mistake it for a topicalised left dislocated
construction17 which requires a resumptive pronoun in standard Spanish as
in (227).
(227) Vargas Llosa (2003)
El compromisoi de escribir, loi asumo totalmente.
the commitment of write-INF CL3MSG assume-1SG fully
‘I fully embrace the commitment to write.’
Preposed direct objects and indirect objects also mimic Quechua (subject)-
object-verb word order, in that they obligatorily introduce a third-person clitic
in immediate preverbal position. In Standard Spanish, feature agreeing clitics
co-occurring with the coreferential object in (228a) depend on semantic strategies.
In contact varieties in (228b), invariant lo is pragmatically motivated.
(228) Standard Spanish
a. A Marlenei lai vimos ayer en la ﬁesta.
DOM Marlene CL3FSG see-PAST-1PL yesterday in the party
‘Marlene, we saw her yesterday at the party.’
Nicaraguan Spanish
b. A la velai loj rompió el viento.
DOM DET.FSG sail.FSG CL3SG break-PAST-3SG the storm
‘The sail was broken by the wind.’18
The most extensive comparative description of Quechua and Aymara structures
places emphasis on the close relatedness of the topicalizer Quechua -qa and
Aymara –xa (Cerrón Palomino 1994: 136). The simple declarative clause in (229)
17 In topicalized left dislocated constructions, a-marking is optional.
18 Spanish TV, September 6, 2007. Oral data from an interview with a young man in Nicaragua
asking him about the destruction wreaked by Hurricane Felix.
The pointing eﬀect of lo and (-ta) -qa 203
shows the similarities of the three languages in argument marking for Quechua
(229a), Aymara (229b) and Andean Spanish (229c).
(229) Quechua (Cerrón Palomino 1994: 144)
a. Allqu-qa kawallu-ta kani-n.
dog-TOP horse-ACC bite-3SG
‘The dog bites the horse.’
Aymara
b. Anu-xa kawallu ach-thap-i.
dog-TOP horse bite-into-3SG
‘The dog bites the horse.’
Spanish
c. El perro muerde al caballo.
DET.MSG dog bite-3SG DOM-DET.MSG horse.MSG
‘The dog bites the horse.”
Note that Aymara is a tonal language, it marks the object kawallu with a falling
tone on the last syllable, instead of the morphological accusative casemarker
-ta used in Quechua. The topicalizer -qa marks the subject, the directional/
locational -thap-i marks the object and third-person of the subject.
The topic marker -qa is an independent suﬃx; it can also function as con-
trast and can attach to verbal and nominal expressions (Adelaar and Muysken
2004: 209). It can co-occur with the object marker -ta (230a) but is restricted to
main clause constituents, resembling a direct object clitic doubling construction
with agreeing clitics. This restriction is based on the following conditions.
Firstly, speciﬁcity and topicality as found in liberal clitic doubling dialects (230b)
and secondly, the non-standardized innovation in Limeño Spanish contact
varieties which in turn is based on pragmatic strategies in (230c).
(230) Huallaga Quechua (Weber 1989: 395)
a. Hatun wasi-ta-qa muna-:.
big house-ACC-TOP want-1SG
‘I want a big house.’
Standard Limeño Spanish
b. ¿Lai frío a la cebollai?
CL3FSG fry-1SG DOM DET.FSG onion.FSG
‘Shall I fry the onion?’
204 Contact and change
Mayer (FW-LSCV)
c. Loi frío a la cebollai.
CL3SG fry-1SG DOM DET.FSG onion.FSG
‘I fry the onion.’
The extension of diﬀerential objet marking in Limeño Spanish contact varieties
is like the treatment of primary topics in Quechua as shown in (231) morpholog-
ically marking a primary topic in situ with an accusative. Monotransitive clauses
in Limeño Spanish contact varieties exhibit very much the same phenomenon
with extended diﬀerential object marking to topic inanimates, whereas Standard
Spanish restricts diﬀerential object marking to speciﬁc and animate objects.
However, personal a-marking can be extended to inanimate objects to topicalize
them.
(231) Quechua
Wasi hunt’u-ta riku-ni.
house full-ACC see-1SG
‘I see a full house.’
In Quechua, secondary topics can appear either on the right or left periphery
of the verb, co-occurrence of a coindexed lexical pronoun and -ta in the same
clause is constrained to the noun in topic position (232). This construction is
very similar to secondary topic marking in Limeño Spanish contact varieties
and can be linked to double actant marking.
(232) Quechua (Lefebvre and Muysken 1988: 138)
Hamu-q warma-(ta)-qa, Santiyagu riku-n.
come-INDEF girl-(ACC)-TOP Santiago see-3
‘Santiago sees the girl who is coming.’
The typological diﬀerences and even more so the similarities between Spanish
and Quechua languages are of special importance regarding argument marking
and potential transfer through Andean Spanish to Limeño Spanish contact
varieties as shown in Table 6.2.
Table 6.2 shows a comparison of the Quechua topic marker -qa and the
secondary topic marker lo in contact Spanish. The tentative summary shows the
high degree of aﬃnity of both.19
19 For the compilation of the Quechua parameters I relied on Weber (1989) and Bossong (1989).
The pointing eﬀect of lo and (-ta) -qa 205
Adjacency conditions are speciﬁc to each and diﬀer as to the host category;
however, both are restricted to main clause constituents only; -qa can attach to
a number of syntactic categories which lo cannot use as a host as in Quechua
case can be part of nominal or verbal projection. Both can co-occur with a
casemarker. Both markers are part of grammatical agreement and when in
cataphoric agreement they point towards the relevance of the subject and object
and their relationship within the context. By that Weber (1989: 404) means “the
set of propositions that the speaker assumes the hearer to know at the point at
which he says the sentence.” Weber emphasises on the high frequency of use of
-qa in folktales compared with low frequency in personal narratives, ascribing
this to the pointing eﬀect when shifting speakers and events. This is the reason
for the cataphoric reading in the chart.
Despite the morphological and syntactic diﬀerences of both contact lan-
guages, the semantic and pragmatic marking strategies are almost identical. In
both languages, the essence is that the speaker seeks to “guide the attention of
the hearer.”
The examples presented in this section also show that invariant lo is most
probably not only a secondary topic marker but also a transitivity or aspectual
marker referring among other values to aspectual marker in cases of redundant
or false pronominalizations in phrases such as lo durmió (acaba de dormir) ‘I
just slept’, lo iré (iré ahora mismo) ‘I’ll go (there) right now’. Cerrón Palomino
(Cerrón Palomino 2003: 157) traces these instances of invariant/redundant lo
back to a calque from the Quechua perfective suﬃxes -rqu, (pronounced -l?u in
some dialects), with the equivalent Aymara form -t’a expressing a sudden action.
Based on the extensive increase and diﬀusion of its use, Muysken (1984) argues
against a transfer hypothesis and for an internally motivated change.
However, given the diﬀerence in word order, and due to the inherent
characteristics of pragmatic object marking in both languages as shown in Table
Table 6.2: Topicality markers in Quechua and Limeño Spanish contact varieties
properties lo -qa
phonologically dependent yes yes
speciﬁc locality conditions yes yes
co-occurrence with casemarker yes yes
multiple occurrence no yes
grammatical agreement yes yes
head-marking yes yes
cataphoric reference yes yes
no object drop yes no
206 Contact and change
6.1, prolonged contact engendered innovative structures through lexical and
semantic borrowings, yielding a specialized pragmatic strategy appropriate
for communication in a multilingual environment. In my view this invites to
speculate that non-standard clitic doubling structures and extended diﬀerential
object marking form a virtual template which facilitates syntactic transfer in-
cluding of course language-internal processes.
6.3.1 Topicality vs. transitivity
I have previously argued that grammaticized clitics devoid of referential infor-
mation evolve into topicality and transitivity markers and denote secondary
topics based on double actant marking (Bossong 2003) and topic-worthiness
(Dalrymple and Nikolaeva 2011). I will now present more evidence that shows
that the featureless grammaticalized form lo is both, and that the transition
from topicality to secondary topic and transitivity marker is marked by gramma-
ticalized clitics evolving from agreement marker to objective marker.
Topicality is a status that is shared by the subject as the natural topic and
the direct object because it expresses the relationship that holds between both.
The stronger the relationship between them, the more topical the argument. For
example, the grammatical relations subject-verb and clitic-thematic object show
both strong agreement and as such are highly topical. In Spanish objective
marking in terms of the diﬀerential object marker as dependent-marker and
third-person clitics as head-markers show a very interesting diachronic develop-
ment of both marking devices concurrently as shown in the evolution model
in Table 4.1. Diﬀerential object marking employs semantic strategies to mark
objects of highly transitive verbs which in Standard Spanish yield a topical
object. In non-standardized mainly oral varieties such as Limeño Spanish
contact varieties, grammaticized clitics as head-markers show a mix of marking
strategies as shown below.
The invariant clitic lo in (233) fulﬁls a double function. Together with
extended diﬀerential object marking, lo pragmatically marks a secondary topic,
(lo = (TOP↑)), in the postverbal direct object slot which is the preferred place to
introduce new information. Secondly, it acts as a transitiviser for the state-
changing primary-transitive verb, marking both the non-overt agentive subject
and a highly prototypical patient object argument20 representing the ultimate
target of the transitivity (the thematic role goal). This leads in (233) to multiple,
20 In the sense of double actant marking (Bossong 2003).
The pointing eﬀect of lo and (-ta) -qa 207
simultaneously occurring, semantic and pragmatic strategies in object marking
apparently breaking all conventional rules.
(233) Mayer (FW-LSCV)
Loi frío a la cebollai.
CL3SG fry-1SG DOM DET.FSG onion.FSG
‘I fry the onion.’
The annotation in (234) formalises the requirements for the grammaticized
topicality marker lo. It requires the presence of an object so it can function as a
transitiviser and to ascribe topicality to that object.
(234) ↑ = ((OBJ ↑) TOP)
The evidence presented so far motivates the analysis of lo, including la in a
laísmo strategy speciﬁc to Limeño Spanish contact varieties, acting as topicality
and transitivity marker – based on thematic roles, particularly highly aﬀected
Patients. As topic marker, lo marks secondary topic. I assume at this stage for
Limeño Spanish contact varieties a mixed typological conﬁguration of accusative-
dative in monotransitive (single object) clauses and primary object/secondary
object in ditransitive (double object) clauses. In these cases diﬀerential object
marking cannot be explained in purely semantic terms (Aissen 2003) but has
to take into account that in Limeño Spanish contact varieties, diﬀerential object
marking is partly determined by information structure role. The correlation
of grammatical marking with information-structural encoding (Dalrymple and
Nikolaeva 2011) and semantic strategies can be linked to a split object marking
system where both internal arguments compete for primary object status.
In the rest of this chapter I focus on grammatical marking in the syntax –
semantic interface which due to exended diﬀerential object marking and syncre-
tism of the dative and accusative casemarker results in competition of the direct
and indirect object for primary object status. This will link contact-induced changes
to inherent reanalysis processes and complete the overarching argument.
6.3.2 Primary object and secondary object marking
In work on Chicheŵa, Bresnan and Kanerva (1989) distinguish between two
kinds of objects based on the relation of thematic roles (Dryer 1986) and gram-
matical function. The primary object is the thematically unrestricted object in
Lexical-Functional Grammar; it can fulﬁl more than one thematic role. The
208 Contact and change
secondary object is thematically restricted to arguments with speciﬁc thematic
roles (OBJθ). From a crosslinguistic perspective, the secondary object is mostly
patients and themes. Butt and King (1996) correlate weak (nonspeciﬁc) objects
in Hindi/Urdu with the primary object and strong (speciﬁc) objects with the
secondary object. The secondary object then is the marked object, a view shared
by Alsina (1996a, 1996b, 2001). Based on Dryer (1986), Alsina (2001: 369) deﬁnes
secondary objects as more marked and more restricted in their distribution
than primary objects. Primary objects are the default option as only the primary
object can undergo passivization expression by object markers.
The theory of object asymmetries establishes a correlation between the
typology of passives, pronominal object marking and other properties. In Alsina
(2001), primary objecthood shows the properties in (235) (adjacency to the verb
is an additional property but should not be tested in conjunction with those
properties).
(235) a) ability to be expressed by means of an object marker;
b) ability to be expressed as the passive subject;
c) ability to be accessed by reciprocalization.
Applying these criteria to the direct object and indirect object in monotransitive
clauses in Spanish should allow their respective object status to be deﬁned. In
example (236), the indirect object (a Clara) can be expressed by a clitic in
(236a), it cannot be expressed as the passive subject in (236b), and it can be
accessed by reciprocalization in (236c).
(236) Standard Spanish
a. Pablo le habla (a Clara).
Pablo CL3SG talk-3SG DAT Clara.
‘Pablo talks to Clara.’
b. *Clara es hablada por Pablo.
Clara is-AUX3SG speak-PARTIC PREP Pablo
‘Clara was talked to by Pablo.’
c. Pablo y Clara se hablan.
Pablo and Clara RECIPR talk-3PL
‘Pablo and Clara talk to each other.’
The indirect object in monotransitive clauses fulﬁls properties (a) and (c), and
does not fulﬁl property (b), it therefore does not qualify for primary object status
in monotransitive clauses in accordance with Alsina’s deﬁnition of primary
object above.
The pointing eﬀect of lo and (-ta) -qa 209
The direct object (a Clara) in (237) in turn fulﬁls all three conditions and is thus
identiﬁed as the primary object in Spanish monotransitive clauses.
(237) Standard Spanish
a. Pablo besa a Clara.
Pablo kiss-3SG DOM Clara
‘Pablo kisses Clara.’
b. Clara es besada por Pablo.
Clara is-AUX.3SG kiss-PARTIC PREP Pablo
‘Clara is kissed by Pablo.’
c. Pablo y Clara se besan.
Pablo and Clara RECIPR kiss-3PL
‘Pablo and Clara kiss each other.’
Further, Spanish monotransitive clauses comply with the deﬁnition of primary
versus secondary object in Dryer (1986: 808), where “A primary object is an
indirect object in a ditransitive clause or a direct object in a monotransitive
clause, while a secondary object is a direct object in a ditransitive clause.”
Primary object status of the direct object from Standard Spanish, Limeño
Standard to Limeño Spanish contact varieties is shown in the distribution in
Table 6.3. Note that line one in the Table speciﬁes the semantic conditions for
dependent-marking rather than simply stating them. I have chosen to be speciﬁc
as all language varieties show varying restrictions on diﬀerential object marking.
Properties (b) and (c), passivization and reciprocalization, are also fulﬁlled by
the direct object.
Table 6.3: Primary object (PO) properties for the direct object in Spanish varieties
PO properties Standard Spanish Standard Limeño LSCV
a. Dependent-marking cpro [+anim,+top] [–anim, +def]
b. Passivisation Z Z Z
c. Reciprocalisation Z Z Z
Table 6.3 shows the grammaticalization processes of diﬀerential object marking
and clitic doubling in Limeño Spanish contact varieties. Property (a), dependent-
marking, shows a steady increase from pronominal arguments in Standard
Spanish to include topical animates in Standard Limeño (and also River Plate),
and extending to inanimate deﬁnites in Limeño Spanish contact varieties. The
210 Contact and change
increase in marking weakens the status of the direct object as the default
primary object, preparing the way for becoming the secondary object.
Casemarking in Spanish is a system that allows identiﬁcation of diﬀerent
grammatical relations,21 which in turn are intrinsically related to the grammatical
functions of objects as indirect and direct objects. The thematic or semantic roles
of these arguments play an important role in the conceptualization of meaning
realised by the predicate.
6.3.3 Semantic roles
The thematic roles of all noun phrase arguments are determined by each verb’s
subcategorization frame/argument structure and depend on the grammatical
function of the argument and on pragmatic functions such as word order
restructuring. Semantic roles (Andrews 2007) are better known as thematic roles
(Dryer 1986; Fillmore 1968), as thematic relation (Jackendoﬀ 1990) and ﬁnally
Proto-roles (Dowty 1991).22 Ackerman (2001) proposes a double argument selec-
tion principle within a prototype theory of semantic roles to link predicate
semantics to argument encoding. Alsina (1996b: 41) links classiﬁcation of argu-
ments to absence and presence of an extended version of Dowty’s Proto-roles.
Arguments containing a Proto-Role P-Agent and P-Patient count as direct argu-
ments and those lacking a Proto-Role are indirect arguments. A further distinc-
tion divides internal arguments with a P-Patient role from external arguments
with a P-Agent role.
In the following I will only be concerned with the semantic roles involved in
core arguments and direct functions and follow closely the general characterisa-
tions in Andrews (2007: 9) who distinguishes between Participatory roles which
are closely linked to argument functions and Circumstantial roles associated
with adjuncts. Circumstantial roles include Benefactive, Outer Locative, Temporal,
Reason and Circumstantial Comitative. Agents and Patients are the main active
participatory roles, others like Experiencer, Recipient, Theme, Causer, Locative,
Instrumental and Comitative participate in the verbal action to various degrees.
Agents are volitional, conscious or accidental performers of an action when
occurring with primary transitive predicates like ‘kill’, ‘hit’. Objects in this tran-
sitive (accusative) scenario are usually patients undergoing or suﬀering the
action performed by the agent. In Spanish, such objects are clearly marked by
21 I follow here the distinction between grammatical functions and grammatical relations as
proposed in Andrews (2007).
22 To cite only the most inﬂuential representatives among a considerable body of research.
The pointing eﬀect of lo and (-ta) -qa 211
dependent- and head-marking. Volitional agents together with patient object
arguments play a decisive role in secondary topic marking through double
actant marking (Bossong 2003).
Perception verbs like ‘see’, ‘hear’, ‘know’ usually follow an active pattern
with the subject as Experiencer who is not necessarily in control and the Patient
unaﬀected by the action. Recipients are potentially aware and able to respond,
whereas Goals could be located above Patients, and Experiencers below Patients,
on a thematic role hierarchy. The dative is placed consistently on certain semantic
roles, and reﬂected in both dependent- and head-marking.
The Patient role alternates between subject and object, and diﬀerent degrees
of awareness might be involved. Agent and Locatives alternate between non-
object functions as mentioned in Bresnan and Kanerva (1989: 25–6). Themes
characterise a state or a position and, depending on the predicate, are some-
times diﬃcult to diﬀerentiate from Patients, particularly with Patient/Theme
human arguments.
6.3.4 Mapping of thematic roles to grammatical functions
Lexical Mapping Theory (Bresnan and Kanerva 1989) assumes the ranking of
thematic roles according to their prominence ranking on argument-structure in
the thematic hierarchy23 in (238) and the partial ordering of argument functions
in (239) which assumes that all languages have subjects and notes that languages
that lack ditransitive verbs also lack restricted objects (Bresnan 2001c: 309).
(238) ag > ben > goal/exp > ins > pat/th > loc
(239) Subject > Object, Obliqueθ > Objectθ
Alsina (2001: 361) deﬁnes argument structure to be “the information of lexical
items that constrains their complement-taking abilities in the syntax. It is also
proposed to be the information of lexical items that constrains their ability to
undergo lexical derivations.” He further argues that (i) the distinction between
primary and secondary object must be part of argument-structure and (ii) that
this distinction is not of semantic but of syntactic nature. The distinction
between the primary object (unrestricted) and the secondary object (restricted)
is represented on two diﬀerent levels. The concept of object is represented at
23 The abbreviations are as follows: ag = agent, ben = beneﬁciary, exp = experiencer, ins =
instrument, pat = patient, th = theme, and loc = locative.
212 Contact and change
the level that represents grammatical functions, that is on functional-structure.
The concept of restrictedness is represented at the level of argument-structure.
Therefore, an object represented as a restricted object on functional-structure
maps onto a restricted argument on argument-structure. An object represented
as an unrestricted object on functional-structure does not map onto a restricted
argument on argument-structure. The features restricted [+R] and unrestricted
[–R] and objective [+O] and non-objective [–O] regulate the mapping of thematic
roles to argument functions. Table 6.5 shows the correlation of these restricted-
ness features and the syntactic functions they can map onto.
Table 6.5: Feature correlation and mapping on to syntactic functions
–Restricted +Restricted
–Objective Subject ObliqueƟ
+Objective Object ObjectƟ
Bresan et al. (2016: 326ﬀ.) subdivide argument functions into external arguments
and internal arguments which map onto restricted and unrestricted syntactic
functions. The term external argument refers to the subject function; internal
arguments are direct functions, which can be either the direct object or the
indirect object; oblique arguments are never internal functions. In Spanish,
the direct object (±DOM) in monotransitive clauses fulﬁls all primary object
properties (following the deﬁnition of Alsina (1996b) and also Dryer (1986)),
and can map onto a range of thematic roles, it is the unrestricted [–R] object.
In ditransitive clauses, the indirect object is the unrestricted [–R] object as it is
dependent-marked and can map onto a range of thematic roles. The correlation
of restrictedness [±R] and grammatical function for both internal arguments
determines the syntactic functions they can map onto. This is demonstrated in
Table 6.6: the left columns show the direct object as the primary object (Object)
in monotransitive clauses. In ditransitive clauses (Table 6.6 right hand columns),
the indirect object is the primary object [+OBJ, –R] and the direct object as the
semantically restricted object [+OBJ, +R] which takes on the role of secondary
object. Direct objects with Patient/Theme semantic role can be passivized.
Table 6.6: Monotransitive and ditransitive primary and secondary object mapping
Monotransitive –R +R Ditransitive –R +R
– Object Subject Obliqueθ – Object Subject Obliqueθ
+ Object Object + Object Object Objectθ
The pointing eﬀect of lo and (-ta) -qa 213
The partial prominence scale in (239) is a standard part of the Lexical-Functional
Grammar theory of grammatical relations. To comply with the mapping rules in
Table 6.6, the prominence scale needs to be adapted for Spanish argument func-
tions as follows: SUBJ > OBJ, OBJθ > OBLθ. Importantly, Romance languages can
have maximally two unrestricted coarguments. Further, Spanish has construc-
tions with one primary object and no secondary object, and cooccurrence of
one primary and one secondary object as shown in the Table 6.6. All direct func-
tions are argument functions, that is unrestricted, and all except the subject are
also non-discourse functions. Consequently, the subject enjoys special status as
argument and discourse function.
The classiﬁcation of primary and secondary object arising from the Limeño
Spanish contact data is given in Table 6.7.
Table 6.7: Primary (PO) and secondary object (SO) in contact Spanish
Clause Subject Object PO Objectθ SO
Transitive Agent Patient/Theme
+Primary
+Direct
Ditransitive Agent Recipient
+Primary
–Direct
Theme
–Primary
+Direct
Locative Agent Goal
+Primary
–Direct
The classiﬁcation in Table 6.7 allows us to account for case erosion, ﬂoating
features in leísta clitic clusters, gradable objecthood (discussed below) and
pragmatic marking based on topicality. In assuming that the Agent role as the
most topical maps on to the external function subject, the internal functions
then comply with the primary/secondary object. The facts presented in Table 6.7
are consistent with the primary object and secondary object marking principle
assigning the following rules (Dryer 1986: 836):
1. In monotransitives, the primary object is the direct object.
2. In ditransitives, the primary object is the indirect object and the secondary
object is the direct object.
6.3.5 Two primary objects?
The notion of gradable direct objecthood is based on a cross-linguistically
observable “semantic and pragmatic overlap between the categories . . . dative
and accusative human patient in Spanish” (Givón 1997: 25). In work on the
214 Contact and change
dative in German, Kiparsky (1998) proposes that morphological case marks
either thematic role or topicality of the argument. In the following I explore the
semantic overlap which is intrinsically involved with a diﬃcult distinction
between the semantic roles Patient and Theme.24
In Limeño Spanish contact varieties the distinction between Patient and
Theme object is not straightforward. This is due to the fact that, in monotransitive
clauses, Theme objects can be marked as in (240a)25 just as Patients in (240b).
Moreover, unlike dative case which marks either semantic role or topicality,
diﬀerential object marking marks both semantic role and topicality, thus apply-
ing semantic and pragmatic marking concurrently.
(240) Limeño Spanish contact varieties, lo [+primary, +direct]
a. Lo frío a la cebolla.
CL3SG fry-1SG DOM DET.FSG onion.FSG
‘I fry the onion.’
Liberal clitic doubling varieties, lo [person, gender number] DO
b. Lo abrazo a Juan.
CL3MSG embrace-1SG DOM Juan
‘I embrace Juan.’
The mapping principles for examples (240a) and (240b) are given in (241).
The predicate implies a diﬀerence in change of state or grade of aﬀectedness
of both semantic roles, however this does not have any impact on argument-
structure nor functional-structure: both share the same syntactic functions.
(241) Monotransitive clause
argument-structure: freír/abrazar <ag th/pt>
[–o] [–r]
| |
functional-structure: SUBJ OBJ
Next consider two typical leísmo constructions from standard Peninsular Spanish
with an active Agent subject in (242a) and an Experiencer subject in (242b).
24 The diﬃculty if not the impossibility of drawing a clear line between Themes and Patients
as noted by Miriam Butt (p.c.).
25 Recall that (240a) is not possible in Standard Spanish and liberal clitic doubling dialects, it
is restricted to certain contact varieties. What is rejected is only the clitic doubling strategy
because of the non-agreeing clitic. Liberal clitic doubling dialects would allow the doubling
strategy with a feature agreeing clitic.
The pointing eﬀect of lo and (-ta) -qa 215
Extension to inanimate Theme objects in Limeño Spanish contact varieties and
also in liberal clitic doubling dialects are doubled by accusative clitics as shown
in (242c). Finally in fully grammaticalized dialects, not only inanimate Themes
but all unique objects in transitive sentences are doubled by dative clitics as
shown in (242d).
(242) Peninsular Spanish leísmo
a. Le abrazo a Juan.
CL3SG embrace-1SG DOM Juan
‘I embrace Juan.’
b. Le veo a Juan.
CL3SG see-1SG DOM Juan
‘I see Juan.’
Liberal clitic doubling dialects and Limeño Spanish contact varieties
c. Lo veo al carro.
CL3SG see-1SG DOM-DET.MSG car.MSG
‘I see the car.’
Ecuadorian/Paraguayan Spanish, extensive leísmo
d. Le veo al carro.
CL3SG see-1SG DOM-DET.SG car.MSG
‘I see the car.’
Mapping of a diﬀerent semantic role this time for the subject does not seem to
change syntactic function in (242) either. Neither does mapping of inanimate
Themes in (242c) and (242d). Perception verbs such as ‘see’ subtract also the
control factor of the Agent and the aﬀectedness of the Patient/Theme object.
(243) Monotransitive clause
argument-structure: abrazar/ver <ag/exp pt/th>
[–o] [–r]
| |
functional-structure: SUBJ OBJ
These examples expose an important diﬀerence between dependent-marking
and head-marking in monotransitive clauses. They show that clitics play a
crucial role in marking the primary object which can be extended to contact
dialects, where ‘apparent’ indirect object constructions as (242d) can be passivized.
216 Contact and change
The object can get promoted to subject as shown in (244) and the ﬁnite verb
obviously must agree with the derived subject.26
(244) Ecuadorian Spanish
El carro es visto (por mí).
DET.MSG car is-AUX3SG see-PARTIC PREP CL1SG
‘The car is seen (by me).’
In sum, I have shown that the grammatical object function in Spanish is under-
going changes due to two concurrent grammaticalization processes which
aﬀect dependent-marking and head-marking concurrently and diﬀerentially.
Extension of diﬀerential object marking to inanimate Themes is not new, but
existed already in early Spanish where personiﬁed things (Themes) received
the same treatment as human Patients (a-marking). However, extending clitic
doubling from animate Patients to include inanimate deﬁnite Themes, led to
obliteration of any important potential diﬀerence that could separate them. The
common denominator in both direct object constructions is the aﬀected partici-
pant on the semantic side and topicality on the pragmatic; and all a-marked and
clitic doubled direct objects share the same topicality status.
Under extensive leísmo, the ‘apparent’ indirect object is the primary object.
These changes are constrained to monotransitive constructions and the le/lo
variability is actual evidence for the competition for primary object. I believe
this is also evidence for convergence in mapping strategies by contact speakers
leading to gradable objecthood.
6.3.6 Object behaviour
Spanish codes syntactic functions by head- and dependent marking and word
order arrangements, such as preposing and left dislocation. These diﬀerent stra-
tegies can be used in almost any combination to mark grammatical relations and
conﬁgure or signal pragmatic functions. We have already seen that objecthood is
not clearcut but gradable. Speciﬁcally in regard to both objects, Alsina (1996b:
150) argues “all that distinguishes direct from indirect objects is morphological
case: indirect objects are objects marked with dative case, whereas direct objects
26 This may seem like inconclusive evidence but it is an attested strategy that speakers of
extensive leísmo in Ecuador and Paraguay apply.
The pointing eﬀect of lo and (-ta) -qa 217
are objects without dative case”. However as Bossong (1991) notes, diﬀerential
object marking is applied diﬀerentially and dative case not.
Table 6.7 summarizes the striking morphosyntactic similarities of the Spanish
direct object and indirect object arguments with respect to passing syntactic
tests for objecthood – contrasting Standard Spanish with Limeño Spanish contact
varieties (LSCV). It also shows that the diﬀerences centre on dependent- and
head-marking and that the language inherent and contact-induced changes in
those areas obliterate all diﬀerences between both internal objects in Limeño
Spanish contact varieties.
Table 6.7: Syntactic properties of direct object, indirect object and primary object in Spanish
Syntactic properties
Direct object
St. Spanish
Indirect object
St. Spanish
Primary object (DO+IO)
LSCV and Contact Spanish
Passivization Z Ø Z
Impersonal / Middle passive Z Z Z
Adjacency Z Z Z
Agreement Z Z Z
DOM Z Ø Z
Dative + Ø Z Z
Clitic doubling c
top Z Z
Pronominal clitic Z Z Z
The ﬁrst two columns show the syntactic properties of direct object and the
indirect object in Standard Spanish. Both objects can appear adjacent to the
verb, can be cross-referenced on the verb with agreeing clitics and can be
replaced by theta-role bearing clitics. The major diﬀerence between both objects,
as shown by zero (Ø), is the inability of indirect objects (and obliques) to
become the grammatical subject under passivization, and direct object clitic
doubling is constrained to topical arguments. In Standard Spanish both internal
objects are suﬃciently diﬀerent to make a distinction between direct object and
indirect object.
The situation is very diﬀerent for non-standard contact varieties such as
Limeño Spanish contact varieties shown in the last column. All boxes are ticked,
reﬂecting two major changes related to the extension of case marking, as shown
in the mapping in (241), and correlated grammaticalization processes of the third-
person clitic paradigm, mainly aﬀecting the direct object clitics. By removing
218 Contact and change
constraints on clitic doubling and casemarking in non-standard contact varieties,
both objects show primary object properties in the last column in Table 6.6.
Under a single case leísta clitic system, lo is used only as propositional anaphor
and passivization is no longer an issue.27
6.4 Object alternations
In the following three subsections, I examine three parameters which elucidate
the eﬀects of the correlation and interaction of morphological casemarking and
semantic roles. Understanding the semantic strategies involved will contribute
to a deeper understanding of marking in Limeño Spanish contact varieties,
particularly identiﬁcation of grammatical functions through semantic roles,
clariﬁcation of the multiple roles of invariant lo and the covariation of the
invariant clitics le/lo.
6.4.1 Disambiguation/Agency
The direct object and its individuation are intrinsically linked to optional mark-
ing. Optional a-marking of two arguments with identical animacy properties has
been analyzed as marking the unique or accusative direct object (Hanssen 1945),
or the verb’s aspectual characteristics may select for a-marking (Torrego 1998: 17).
Rivero (1975) and Leonetti (2004, 2008) deﬁne subjunctive mood in restricted
relative clauses based on speciﬁcity and animacy as a requirement for a-marking.
Others argue for a decisive role of the semantic and pragmatic nature of the
nominal object (Aissen 2003).
Kittilä (2005: 491) argues that due to the animacy diﬀerence, the formal
ambiguity of (245a), where both human arguments share equal semantic status
as potential Agents, does not arise in (245b). Therefore, there is no need for
diﬀerential object marking, as ambiguity is restricted to a double reading with
a semantically plausible explanation.
27 This applies especially to extensive leísmo which has led to a single case system in some
dialects of Ecuadorian and Paraguayan Spanish, and to a partial system in Limeño Spanish
contact varieties. While some Ecuadorian and Paraguayan varieties have gone all the way,
Limeño Spanish contact varieties still show covariation of secondary topic marking with Latin
American Spanish leísmo.
Object alternations 219
(245) Sierra Popoluca28 (Kittilä 2005: 491)
a. i-ko’ts-pa xiwan petoj.
3-P3-A-T-PERF Juan Pedro
‘Juan hit Pedro. or Pedro hit Juan.’
b. i-ku’t-pa xiwan wi’kkuy.
3-P3-A-EAT-PERF Juan food
‘Juan ate food.’
Zubizarreta (1999) claims that Spanish shows overt morphological case that dis-
tinguishes objects from subjects as shown in the monotransitive clause in (246a)
where one of the two human coarguments bearing identical featural speciﬁca-
tions is morphologically marked. Patient marking here is obligatory even under
word order restructuring (246b) yielding a case of classic personal a. Butt (2005)
argues that it allows the semantic role of the nouns and their syntactic relation-
ship to the verb to be established.
(246) Standard Spanish
a. Juan mata a Pedro.
John kill-3SG DOM Peter
‘John kills Peter.’
b. Mata Juan a Pedro.
kill-3SG John DOM Peter
‘John kills Peter.’
Optional diﬀerential object marking with two almost identical inanimate co-
arguments only diﬀering in gender in (247) cannot be explained in terms of
personal a-marking though. The deﬁnite subject and object in (247a) can be
replaced by pronominals in (247b). In Spanish, subject arguments can be easily
omitted or, for emphasis or disambiguation replaced by strong pronouns; Theme
and Patient objects can be null or replaced by a clitic. Note when switching
arguments, morphological marking remains in situ, marking the switched argu-
ment as shown in (247c) and (247d).
(247) Standard Spanish
a. El interruptor controla (a) la máquina.
DET.MSG switch control-3SG DOM DET.FSG machine.FSG
‘The switch controls the machine.’
28 These examples are originally from Payne (1997: 151).
220 Contact and change
b. (Él) la controla.
PRO3MSG CL3FSG control-3SG
‘He controls it.’
c. La máquina controla (a)l interruptor.
DET.FSG machine.FSG control-3SG DOM-DET.MSG switch.MSG
‘The machine controls the switch.’
d. Ella lo controla.
PRO3FSG CL3MSG control-3SG
‘She controls him.’
Action verbs like controlar take an Agent as subject and, as Torrego (1999: 1785)
argues, only that class of verbs which takes an Agent as semantic subject role
can a-mark the direct object. Examples (248) show the Patient role alternating
between animate and inanimate objects. Examples of this kind are probably
the only ones to warrant a distinction between the semantic roles of Patient in
(248a) and (248b) with a-marking and an unmarked Theme in (248c).
(248) Standard Spanish
a. El profesor reemplaza al libro.
DET.MSG teacher.MSG replace-3SG DOM-DET.MSG book.MSG
‘The teacher replaces the book.’
b. El libro reemplaza al professor.
DET.MSG book.MSG replace-3SG DOM-DET.MSG teacher.MSG
‘The book replaces the teacher.’
c. El profesor reemplaza el libro con otro.
the teacher replaces-3SG DET.MSG book PREP another
‘The teacher replaces the book with another.’
These examples clearly show that diﬀerential object marking as disambiguation
is dependent on a volitional Agent, and that Patient marking allows the semantic
role of the nouns and their relationship to the verb to be established. The
semantic role of Patient is crucially an object directly aﬀected or changed by
the verbal action with degree of aﬀectedness marked by case alterations.
6.4.2 Aﬀectedness
Aﬀectedness indirectly correlates with the semantic features animacy and deﬁnite-
ness of the object as these features in turn are strongly associated with indi-
Object alternations 221
viduation of the referent (Dalrymple and Nikolaeva 2011; Hopper and Thompson
1980; Naess 2004). Semantic based dative-accusative or other kinds of alterna-
tions can be found in many languages. The Icelandic example in (249) exempli-
ﬁes aﬀectedness diﬀerences with the same verb, where the accusative in (249a)
marks an almost painful act with the intention to hurt; the dative marking
in (249b) means that somebody helped out and scratched a place the person
cannot reach on their own.
(249) Icelandic (Naess 2004: 1205)
a. Hann klórað-i mig.
he-NOM scratch-PAST-3SG me-ACC
‘He scratched me (ACC).’
b. Hann klórað-i mér.
He-NOM scratch-PAST-3SG me-DAT
‘He scratched me.’
Finnish shows similar case alternation between accusative and partitive: the
accusative marks highly aﬀected objects (250a) and the partitive case stands
for partly aﬀected objects (250b) as in the examples from Kittilä (2002) cited in
Naess (2004):
(250) Finnish (Naess 2004: 1203)
a. Hän jo-i maido-n.
s/he drink-PAST-3SG milk-ACC
‘She drank (all) the milk.’
b. Hän jo-i maito-a.
s/he drink-PAST.3SG milk-PART
‘She drank (some of the) milk.’
Naess (2004: 1203) argues that the accusative-partitive alternation in (250) is a
form of diﬀerential object marking, although the distinction is based on degrees
of aﬀectedness and not on the more usual semantic factors animacy and deﬁnite-
ness resulting in optional case marking.
Limeño Spanish contact varieties data in (251) also show the diﬀerence in
transitivity with the accusative la in (251a), and lo in (251b) indicating a highly
aﬀected object. The dative le in examples (251a) and (251b) is a lesser aﬀected
object.
222 Contact and change
(251) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer, FW-LSV)
a. El doctor le sobaba, la sobaba
the doctor CL3SG massage-PAST-3SG CL3FSG massage-3SG
and le calmaba los dolores.
y CL3SG sooth-PAST-3SG DET.MSG pain
‘The doctor massaged her, he massaged her some more and soothed
her pain.’
b. Que le rasque la cabeza, que le rasque
that CL3SG scratch-SBJV-1SG the head that CL3SG scratch-SBJV-1SG
la espalda, basta con que lo rasque.
the back enough with that CL3MSG scratch-SBJV-1SG
‘That I scratch his head that I scratch his back it is good as long as
I scratch him.’
Verbal lexical semantics also seems to play an important role in the data from
Limeño Spanish contact varieties. Some verbs change lexical meaning depend-
ing on selection of direct object and indirect object. This has indeed been put
forward by Ormázabal and Romero (2007: 331) suggesting that meaning alterna-
tions may be a possible source for dative and accusative marking in Spanish.
And considering aspectual diﬀerences as, for example, ‘look at’ vs. ‘see’, dual
marking could then be explained in the following way: dative would mark
real Recipients and accusative would mark Goal/Targets. Similar instances of
ko-marked direct objects in Hindi/Urdu have been analyzed as telic (Butt 2008).
The relationship to leísmo here is clear, and I assume that the examples
above do not represent a case of leísmo but rather degrees of aﬀectedness
depending on choice of clitic.
6.4.3 Telicity
In direct objects with an event verb, another underlying cause for alternating
case could be telicity. For Hindi/Urdu ko vs. non-ko, Butt (2008) assumes resulta-
tive and non-resultative meaning but cautions that “nothing is neat, there are
outliers”. Ritter and Rosen (2001) argue for object split based on either deﬁnite-
ness or speciﬁcity of the direct object, or motivated by boundedness or delimita-
tion of the event. Crosslinguistic variability of the strategies is based on the locus
of a quantifying feature which can be either the verb or object agreement.
Object alternations 223
Kiparsky (1998) makes a distinction between unbounded and bounded
events and applies an objective test to distinguish between them. He claims
that whereas bounded events require absolute participation and therefore
do not admit quantization in the form of degree modiﬁers (un poco, mucho)
‘a bit, a lot’, unbounded events do. This is shown in (252) for Spanish, modelled
on Kiparsky’s original example (1998: 266) where diﬀerential object marking
is mandatory in (252a) representing a bounded event, and optional in the
unbounded form (252c).
(252) a. Carmen mata al gato de su hermana.
Carmen kill-3SG DOM-DET.SG cat.MSG PREP POSS sister.FSG
‘Carmen kills her sister’s cat.’
b. Carmen mata al gato de su hermana
Carmen kill-3SG DOM-DET.MSG cat.MSG of POSS sister
*(un poco/mucho).
(a little/much)
‘Carmen kills her sister’s cat (a bit/much).’
c. Carmen quería mucho al gato de su hermana.
Carmen love-PAST-3SG much DOM-DAT cat PREP POSS sister
‘Carmen loved her sister’s cat a lot.’
Primary transitive verbs such as ‘kill’ in Spanish always trigger personal a-
marking and the psych verb ‘want/love’ optionally triggers diﬀerential object
marking with speciﬁc and topical objects. This shows that event predicates may
follow a double strategy and may not be subsumed under a single semantic
property – a diﬃculty Kiparsky acknowledges.
Finally, telicity in the sense of delimitation or endpoint (Torrego 1998: 21)
characterizes the event as having an endpoint as illustrated in the Andean Spanish
oblique locative example in (253) with invariant lo analyzed as false pronomi-
nalization in Cerrón Palomino (2003). Here the invariant lo marks an intransitive
Goal that has been reached. I analyze these two concurrent goal-marking
strategies as convergence: lo from Quechua transfer and prepositional case mark-
ing from Spanish as discussed in section three this chapter.
(253) Andean Spanish (Cerrón Palomino 2003: 170)
Lo llegaron a este pueblo.
CL3SG arrive-PAST-3PL LOC DEM.MSG village.MSG
‘They arrived at this village.’
224 Contact and change
Summarising the results so far, object alternations in monotransitives are impli-
cated in an interaction involving morphological casemarking, the semantic role
of the internal object and the external subject. The change from an accusative-
dative case system to a single primary object, as described earlier, are con-
strained to monotransitive clauses. Ditransitive clauses already show a binary
distinction of primary and secondary object marking, as we will see in the last
section of this chapter.
6.5 Double object constructions
Following the principles articulated by Alsina (1996a, 2001) and Dryer (1986), in
double object constructions the indirect object is the primary object and the
direct object is the restricted secondary object. Cooccurrence is regulated by the
Restricted Argument Parameter which says “in an argument structure with two
morpho-syntactically distinct internal arguments, one must be [R]” (Alsina 2001:
370). In Spanish double object constructions, the default word order is (subject)-
verb-direct object – indirect object and a-marking is restricted to the unresticted
object. This constraint is regulated by the Linear Precedence Principle (Alsina
1993), which says that the Spanish accusative Patient is usually a bare noun
phrase while the dative Recipient or Goal is a prepositional phrase. With ditran-
sitive verbs case marking distinguishes between internal arguments, which are
both expressed by objects. This is shown in (254a) where the Patient/Theme
direct object is unmarked (l’indult) and the indirect object the Recipient (als
generals) is marked. Passivization in (254b) is restricted to the Patient/Theme
object. This is like German and Dutch.
(254) Catalan (Alsina 1996b: 149–150)
a. El parlament ha concedit l’indult
the parlament has-3SG grant-PARTIC DET’pardon
als generals.
OM-DET-MPL generals
‘The parliament has granted (the) pardon to the generals.’
b. L’ indult ha estat concedit als
the pardon has-3SG be-3SG grant-PARTIC OM-DET-MPL
generals pel parlament.
generals PREP parliament
‘Pardon has been granted to the generals by the parliament.’
Double object constructions 225
As shown in (255) restrictedness is represented at the level of argument-structure
and the concept of object is represented at the level of functional-structure. The
phrase-structure rules determine the order of grammatical functions. The non-
object argument maps onto the subject function indexed with 1, and both other
arguments are assigned object function, with the unrestricted object (direct
object) adjacent to the verb and the restricted object argument (indirect object)
mapping onto the secondary object.
(255) Ditransitive clause
argument-structure: dar <[-O]1 [-R] [R]>
| | |
functional-structure: [SUBJ OBJ OBJθ]
In double object constructions, only the Patient/Theme object is open to passiv-
ization, the passive rules are given in (256). The ﬁrst line spells out that the
subject becomes either null or an oblique introduced by the preposition por
(‘by’). Line two shows the promotion of the object to subject.
(256) (SUBJ) → Ø / (OBL)
(OBJ) → (SUBJ)
6.5.1 Dative alternation
As shown for Spanish below, optionality of presence and absence of the clitic or
full noun phrase (as indicated by the brackets) is due to a contrast between the
double object construction in (257) and the dative alternation in (258). In both
constructions, the recipient argument, which is the indirect object, is casemarked
as indicated by a.
In asymmetrical languages, adjacency to the verb is required for non-
restricted arguments to receive structural casemarking (Bresnan and Moshi
1990). In some dialects of Chicheŵa, the order can be reversed and the restricted
object would precede the unrestricted object (Alsina 2001: 376).29 The Spanish
direct object – indirect object word order in the double object construction in
(257) shows this as well. This order allows for an optional clitic crossreferencing
the indirect object and word order is unmarked.
29 According to Jonni Kanerva, p.c. to the author, Alsina.
226 Contact and change
(257) Double object construction: direct object – indirect object word order
constituent structure: (NP) (CL) V NP aNP
| |
argument-structure: Theme Recipient
| |
functional-structure: (SUBJ) OBJθ OBJ
Restructuring of word order into indirect object – direct object reﬂects the dative
alternation in (258). This word order is considered pragmatically marked and
requires casemarking and clitic doubling of the unrestricted object.
(258) Dative alternation: indirect object – direct object word order
constituent structure: (NP) CL V aNP NP
| |
argument-structure: Recipient Theme
| |
functional-structure: (SUBJ) OBJ OBJθ
The information structure role in ditransitives is marked through word order
in accordance with the thematic hierarchy where the Recipient precedes the
Theme/Patient and not through casemarking. The Restricted Argument Parameter
remains active even with pragmatically motivated word order restructuring. This
word order variation is often called the prepositional dative construction (Bleam
2003; Demonte Barreto 1994a) and Kayne (1975) for the French counterpart). In
these indirect object – direct object constructions the indirect object clitic is
obligatory with the a-marked referential object. Note also that in double object
constructions both objects can be replaced by a clitic cluster where the ﬁxed
order of indirect object and direct object in unmarked constructions can vary to
include obliques.30
The distinction is shown for English in (259) and for Standard Spanish in
(260). The example in (259a) exempliﬁes the prepositional dative construction
and (259b) the double object construction.
(259) a. John gave the book to Mary → V NP PP
b. John gave Mary the book → V NP NP
30 See chapter two for clitic clusters in Standard Spanish and chapter ﬁve for ﬂoating agree-
ment in non-standard clitic clusters.
Double object constructions 227
The prepositional datives in (260a) and (260b) only diﬀer in placement of both
internal objects. In both constructions, the indirect object is clitic doubled and
only the clitic doubled (referential) argument can be a-marked. Simultaneous
marking of both arguments as in (260c) is ungrammatical and falls under the
Restricted Argument Parameter. Finally, as remarked before, both internal argu-
ments can be replaced by a clitic cluster (250d).
(260) Standard Spanish
a. Double object construction
Juan (le) dio el libro a María.
Juan CL3SG give-PAST-3SG the book DAT Maria
‘John gave the book to Mary.’
Dative alternation
b. Juan le dio a María el libro.
Juan CL3SG give-PAST-3SG DAT Maria the book
‘John gave Mary the book.’
c. *Juan le dio a María al libro.
Juan CL3SG give-PAST-3SG DAT Maria DOM-DET.MSG book
‘John gave Mary the book.’
d. Juan se lo dio.
Juan SE CL3MSG give-PAST-3SG
‘John gave it to her.’
One last point, only the direct object (el libro) is open to passivization in accor-
dance with rule (256) – this is shown in (261). The Theme object is promoted
to subject and the Recipient/Beneﬁciary retains the clitic. Given these facts, it
is clear that ditransitive clauses are sensitive to the primary/secondary object
distinction.
(261) El libro le fue dado a María (por Juan).
the book CL3SG is-PAST-3SG give-PARTIC DAT María (by Juan)
‘Mary was given a book (by John).’
Passivisability of a secondary object may seem unusual in theory, but Latin
American Leísta speakers do not hesitate to promote the direct object to subject.
A parallel to English would be e.g. “a book was given Mary”.
Constraints on indirect object clitic doubling in locative alternation have
been widely mentioned by linguists. This construction as shown in (258) is
considered grammatical without clitic doubling. Bleam (2003) argues that
228 Contact and change
prepositional Goal objects that can be analyzed as ending up as possessor of the
referent of the Theme direct object may be clitic doubled as shown in (262).
(262) Bleam (2003: 233)
Carmen (le) envió el libro a su profesor.
Carmen (CL3SG) send-PAST-3SG the book DAT POSS professor
‘Carmen sent the book to her professor.’
Demonte (1994a) claims that indirect object – direct object word order in Spanish
requires indirect object clitic doubling, and that it is impossible without the
doubling. Demonte (1994b: 78) further argues that the presence of an indirect
object clitic in a ditransitive construction indicates aﬀectedness “in the sense
that it is taken either as the possessor or an intrinsic part of the Theme argument.”
This could also be interpreted as another sign of primary objecthood of the indirect
object. In example (263) changing tires entails possession of tires by the Goal
object the car.
(263) Le cambié las llantas al carro.
CL3SG change-PAST-1SG the tires DOM-DET.MSG car.MSG
‘I changed the tires of the car.’
Recall the discussion of aﬀected objects, ending with a discussion of telicity
in terms of delimitation or endpoint. Indirect object clitic doubling of the last
examples all show exactly that, namely the endpoint and completeness of an
event described by the predicate.
The discussion of ditransitives in this section has served the purpose of
illustrating the multiple functions of a in Standard Spanish varieties as a basis
of comparison for the contact-induced variability and changes shown in the
examples from Limeño Spanish contact varieties and Brazilian Portuguese in
relation to a being replaced by the preposition para as discussed next.
6.5.2 Dative vs. oblique
Given the syncretic form a as dative casemarker, diﬀerential object marker and
locative preposition as well as the linking of semantic roles, as Goal for example,
to grammatical object functions, the distinction between indirect objects and
obliques is debatable. Bresnan (1982) and Zubizarreta (1985) for example analyze
indirect objects in Spanish as oblique functions. Alsina (1996b) argues that
indirect objects are direct functions, datives are prepositional phrases and not
Double object constructions 229
noun phrases, and therefore they may morphologically look like obliques.
Another factor contributing to the oblique hypothesis is lack of passivization
which also applies to datives. However, unlike direct objects and obliques, they
can be targets of secondary predication. This is shown in (264a) for the direct
object and in (264b) for the indirect object modelled after the Catalan example
in Alsina.
(264) Catalan (Alsina: 158–159)
a. Quieren retratar a María disfrazada de princesa.
want-3PL portray-INF DOM María disguised PREP princesse
‘They want to portray Maria disguised as a princess.’
b. Quieren hacer un retrato a María disfrazada
want-3PL make-INF a portrait OM María disguised-PARTIC
de princesa.
of princesse
‘They want to take a picture of Maria disguised as a princess.’
Kayne (1975) argues that French, a non-clitic doubling language, makes a dis-
tinction between datives and ‘for’-prepositional phrases as demonstrated in
(264). The anaphoric clitic in (264c) is per Kayne not too popular and seems to
be more closely related to (265a) than (265b).
(265) French (Kayne 1975: 135)
a. On a construit une maison pour Jean.
IMPERS have-3SG build-PARTIC a house for Jean
‘They built a house for Jean.’
b. On a construit une maison à Jean.
IMPERS have-3SG build-PARTIC a house DAT Jean
‘They built Jean a house.’ (my translation)
c. On lui a construit une maison.
IMPERS CL3SG have-3SG build-PARTIC a house
‘They built him a house.’
In Limeño Spanish contact varieties, head-marking extends to prepositions spe-
ciﬁcally with para ‘for’ as shown in (266). Here we have two diﬀerent uses of
para: the ﬁrst is a real preposition and could not be replaced by a; the second
para should be the indirect object casemarker a as the doubling clitic shows.
230 Contact and change
(266) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer FW-LSCV)
Trabajan para ellos nomás, para su mamá
work-3PL for-PREP PRO3MPL only for-PREP POSS mamá
no le da ninguno.
not CL3SG give-3SG QUANT.MSG
‘They only work for themselves, nobody gives anything to their mother.’
The ‘for’- prepositional phrase agrees in person with the dative in Limeño
Spanish contact varieties as shown in (267).
(267) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer FW-LSCV)
La señora me ayudaba hacer mis tareas o
the lady CL1SG help-PAST-3SG do-INF POSS homework or
dibujaba, ella me hacía los dibujos porque
draw-PAST-3SG PRO3FSG CL1SG do-PAST-3SG the drawings because
yo no sé dibujar muy bien y ella
PRO1SG not know-1SG draw-INF very well and PRO3FSG
me los dibujaba a mí.
CL1SG CL3MPL draw-PAST-3SG DAT CL1SG
‘The lady (of the house) helped me with my homework or drew, she did
the drawings for me because I can’t draw very well and she did the
drawings for me.’
Alternation between case marking and the preposition31 in French and Spanish
can be analyzed as an alternation between a preposition serving as a dative case
marker versus a preposition as an ‘oblique marker’ introducing a thematically
restricted oblique (OBLθ).
More evidence comes from Brazilian Portuguese in (268a) which shows a
strong preference for prepositional marking of the Recipient with pra ‘for’
instead of the preposition a which is normally used as dative casemarker. Again,
as in Limeño Spanish contact varieties this is pragmatic marking and is diﬀerent
from the semantic marking strategy European Portuguese in (268b) shows. Euro-
pean Portuguese in turn makes a clear distinction between datives and obliques
just like Peninsular Spanish.
31 As noted by a reviewer, the diﬀerence could lie in a distincton between ‘empty vs. semantic’
prepositions.
Double object constructions 231
(268) Brazilian Portuguese (Costa and Kula 2003: 297)
a. O João deu para Maria um CD.
DET.MSG João give-PAST-3SG for Maria a CD
‘João gave Maria a CD.’
European Portuguese
b. O João deu à Maria um CD.
DET.MSG João give-PAST-3SG DOM Maria a CD
‘João gave Maria a CD.’
Alternation between the only two overt dependent-case markers in Standard
Spanish is shown for the genitive preposition de in (259a), and for dative case
in the clitic doubling example in (269b). Tener miedo de ‘be afraid of’ in (269a)
is a general statement about the relationship of an Experiencer subject portrayed
as a group and an intransitive Theme. The dative construction in (269b) might
be interpreted as expressing a tighter relationship between subject and indirect
object, but native speakers from several Spanish speaking countries do not
perceive any notable diﬀerence between both versions.
(269) a. Los gatos no tienen miedo del agua.
the cats not have-3PL fear PREP water
‘Cats don’t fear water.’
b. Los gatos no le tienen miedo
the cats not CL3SG hace-3PL fear
al agua.
DAT-DET.MSG water.MSG
‘The cats are not afraid of the water.’
The alternation of the preposition de (270) for the dative a of Limeño Spanish
contact varieties does entail a diﬀerence. The casemarked version would imply
the expectation that the aunt would be there and answer the door. The version
with de lacks any implication. Examples (269) and (270) could also be linked
to genitive clitic doubling as proposed by Camacho and Sánchez (1995) for a
speciﬁc trait of Andean Spanish.
(270) Limeño Spanish contact varieties (Mayer FW- LSCV)
Ya va llegar ahorita, tocale
already is-3SG arrive-INF now knock-IMP.CL3SG
la puerta de la tía.
DET.FSG door.FSG of DET.FSG aunt.FSG
‘(S)he’ll be here any minute, knock on the aunt’s door.’
232 Contact and change
These examples from three Romance languages (Spanish, Portuguese and French)
show contact-induced structural convergence which such contact varieties expe-
rience with the distinction between syntactic and semantic argument marking.
In contact varieties extended dependent-marking with diﬀerential object mark-
ing and clitics as head-markers obliterate the diﬀerences between both internal
arguments. It is possible that this confusion carries over to obliques.
As a ﬁnal point, the increased appearance of ethical datives in clitic clusters
seems to indicate a process of change in that direction and corroborates the
change from accusative-dative to primary and secondary object marking.
6.5.3 Ethical datives
Ethical datives not only violate clitic cluster constraints (Bonet 1995; Ormazabal
and Romero 2007; Perlmutter 1971), they are also problematic with regard to
their syntactic categorization for two main reasons: (i) they cannot be classiﬁed
as one single group, and (ii) they diﬀer from other object clitics in having
no direct referential relation with an argument. However, according to Franco
and Huidobro (2008) they have one property in common, which is the fact that
deletion of an ethical dative clitic does not trigger change in grammaticality,
semantic meaning or aspectual interpretation. In their theory, based on Basque
Spanish, ethical datives are analyzed as adjuncts but cannot be replaced by a
full noun phrase adjunct. The authors also remark that frequency of occurrence
of ethical datives seems to increase in contact varieties.
Mexican Spanish exhibits a peculiar case of leísmo shown in (261) which
Torres Cacoullos (2002) analyzes as verbal intensiﬁer.
(271) Mexican Spanish (Torres Cacoullos 2002: 285)
¡Córrele!
run-3SG.CL3SG
‘Come on, run!’
These clitics (Cardinaletti and Starke 1996: 281) are part of non-referential dative
clitics commonly used as “emotional particles” in Romance and Slavic languages.
They are also considered non-argumental datives and the interesting part is that
they also occur in monotransitive constructions.
German ethical datives in (262a) are dubbed “free datives” (Butt 2005: 190)
as they are not subcategorized for by the verb. Wierzbicka argues here against
agency of the subject and for the non-argumental dative below as a typical
experiencer. In contrast the argumental dative in the ditransitive (262b) is not
optional but obligatory.
Double object constructions 233
(262) German (Wierzbicka 1981: 48)
a. Sei (mir) nur brav!
be-IMP CL1SG only good
‘Be good!’
b. Tu mir das nicht an.
do-IMP CL1SG DEM-ACC not to
‘Don’t do this to me.’
The increase of ethical datives in contact varieties can be linked to double actant
marking in the sense of Bossong which is a strategy used in oral language to
ensure felicitous communication between two speech participants and active
involvement in the event.
6.5.4 Ethical datives in passivization
Non-argument functions such as ethical datives can also be expressed as object
markers in passivization. Andrews and Manning (1993: 41) show the behaviour
of ethical datives in complex predicate sentences in active form in (263a).32 In
the (long) passive construction in (263b) only the direct object can be promoted
to subject triggering agreement of the participial verb. The clitic doubling indirect
object remains unchanged.
(263) Andrews and Manning (1993: 41)
a. Los obreros les están terminando de pintar
the workers CL3PL are-3PL ﬁnish-GERUND of paint-INF
estas paredes a los dueños.
DEM.FPL walls.FPL DAT the landlords
‘The workers are ﬁnishing painting these walls for the landlords.’
b. Estas paredes les están siendo
DEM.FPL walls.FPL CL3PL are-AUX.3PL ﬁnish-GERUND
terminadas de pintar a los dueños.
paint-PARTIC PREP paint-INF DAT the landlords
‘These walls are ﬁnished to paint for the landlords.’
32 I have modiﬁed the active form slightly to incorporate the indirect object.
234 Contact and change
The long passive example establishes an important linking mechanism related
to the direct object and the verb, which is a shared thematic role. This also
manifests itself in the ability of both objects to form a clitic cluster as shown
in (264). This example is considered ungrammatical by speakers of Standard
Spanish.
(264) Se les están siendo terminadas de pintar.
SE CL3PL are-3PL are-GERUND ﬁnish-PARTIC-FPL of paint-INF
‘They are being ﬁnished to paint for them.’
Spurious se represents the direct object promoted to subject and therefore obli-
gatorily must take ﬁrst place in the clitic cluster. The ethical dative takes second
place which is, under unmarked word order, taken by the direct object. The
ethical dative here behaves like a typical dative object, again another parallel
to Warlpiri as mentioned in Simpson (1991: 420).
6.6 Summary
The description of the relationship between contact-induced changes and language-
inherent processes, by separating both and revealing their complex interactions,
has been at the center of this chapter.
In referring to language inherent processes, the diachronically attested
inherent variability of the third person paradigm reﬂects a well documented
reanalysis process from syntactically relatively independent words to less inde-
pendent ones, evolving in some dialect varieties into transitivity and topicality
markers in monotransitive clauses in the form of invariant lo and also, to some
extent le. The variability also shows that clitics as head-markers in clitic doubling
display a much more radical historical change than anaphoric clitics. This is
important because it shows that the range of variability we encounter in Limeño
Spanish contact data cannot be adjudged a general breakdown of order, or a
process aﬀecting unstressed little words only, but a phenomenon aﬀecting spe-
ciﬁc kinds of clitic related grammatical structures under certain circumstances.
In relation to the contact languages, given the typological diﬀerences, and
due to the inherent characteristics of pragmatic object marking in both languages,
prolonged and intense contact has prompted innovative structures through lexical
and semantic borrowings, yielding a specialized pragmatic strategy appropriate
for communication in a multilingual environment. This allows a speculative link-
ing of non-standardized clitic doubling structures and extended diﬀerential
object marking to a virtual template for morpho-syntactic transfer and structural
convergence.
Summary 235
Coincidence of these internally and externally motivated changes lead to
a split between objective case marking in monotransitives and ditransitives.
Consequently, the direct object is acquiring more and more indirect object
properties, speciﬁcally in the logical overlap of inanimate Theme/Goal and
animate Patient/Recipient due to the inherent locative meaning of the syncretic
casemarker a.
These facts also constitute the basis for the competition for primary object
status. Both internal arguments, the direct and the indirect object, possess all
three primary object properties with limitations in Standard Spanish and fully
in Limeño Spanish contact varieties and under extensive leísmo. Passivization –
which is not unproblematic for the indirect object – falls under a single case
clitic system as for example extended leísmo in some Ecuadorian and Para-
guayan varieties. The ‘struggle’ for primary object status is obvious in monotran-
sitive clauses, though the direct object maintains primary objecthood possibly
only due to the ability to passivize and the syntactic consequences.
Ditransitives are the best evidence for the plus-minus dative theory with the
indirect object as primary object and the direct object taking secondary object
status. Here the secondary object retains its ability to promote to subject, and
the primary object retains the object marker in direct object clitics. However,
object marking is obligatory with animate and inanimate Recipients/Beneﬁciaries,
with Theme/Goal and Locative marking optional – possibly due to close aﬃnity
to a typical direct object.
Word order restructuring, as in the dative alternation, is pragmatically moti-
vated and triggers obligatory object marking of the primary object. Both objects
can be replaced by a clitic cluster which is normally constrained to the same
word order: indirect object, direct object. However, in the case of the combina-
tion of a direct object promoted to subject and an ethical dative as secondary
object, clitic cluster order results in marking the discourse functions subject
and non-argumental datives, in this case an ethical dative. Recall from chapter
two that non-argumental and non-referential datives can participate in clitic clus-
ters. They show ﬂoating agreement and are not regulated by the Person-Case
constraint, but reﬂect primary and secondary object marking.
The evidence from the observed nonstandard variation data presented and
discussed here suggests that it is highly likely that we are looking through a
time window at a stage of language change ‘in ﬂagrante’.
236 Contact and change
Chapter 7
Conclusion
My goal in this book has been to show that variability in grammatical argument
marking in Limeño Spanish contact varieties is the outcome of evolutionary pro-
cesses and human communicative needs rather than random variation or the
result of imperfect language acquisition. I have shown that co-evolution of clitics
and casemarking, reinforced by contact, are indicative of strong competition of
the two internal object arguments for primary object status. Supported by ﬁeld
data, I have argued that syntactically marked objects in local systems depart
from canonical patterns of semantic marking, instead marking the information-
structural role of secondary topic, while foreshadowing a typological change
from dative/accusative to primary and secondary object marking.
The non-standardized varieties examined in this book are the logical product
of a scalar lack of standardization and to be understood as competing dialect
grammars. Moreover, the observed variability and changes in the argument mark-
ing system are not subject to geographical restrictions but occur under similar
conditions in a broader typological context and across the Spanish-speaking
world. This has been widely reported across Latin American countries where
Spanish is in contact with Amerindian languages, for example Mexican Spanish
(Company 2003), Andean Spanish (Cerrón Palomino 1992, 2003; Escobar 1990;
Luján 1987; Pérez 1997), and in Honduras, Nicaragua, Argentina and Bolivia
as described by Lipski (1994). The variability has also been reported for non-
standardized River Plate Spanish, where not contact but educational issues are
involved. The extensive intra- and interspeaker variability can also be found to
some extent in Peninsular Spanish, for example in the Basque region (Landa
1995), caused by contact situations similar to those aﬀecting Lima Spanish.
Moving to a wider typological context, such variability is also found in Ibizan
Catalan (2007) and in Hindi-Urdu (Butt 2008) among others.
The wider distribution of very similar forms of variability – such as the Latin
American Spanish leísmo strategy which ﬁnds its counterpart in Peninsular
Spanish in leísmo by adstratum (Fernández Ordóñez 1993, 1999) – links the varia-
bility to more general typological concerns and strongly supports the reanalysis
hypothesis for the third-person paradigm indicating a change from syntactically
relatively independent words to less independent ones. Individual variability, as
found in the extensive inter and intra-speaker variability in the corpus data,
reﬂects dialect variability, representing samples of possible grammars within the
same typological space (Bresnan, Deo and Sharma 2007: 302). The variability in
the contact data also conﬁrms that grammaticalization is an irreversible process
DOI 10.1515/9781614514213-007
that does not extend to the whole paradigm at once, but is a gradient process
which aﬀects whole structures over a long period of time (Croft 2000; Harris
and Campbell 1995). Additionally, contact languages favour partially parallel
structures present in all of them and, therefore, co-existence of old and new
structures produces mismatches and incompatibility, generally misjudged as
ungrammaticality. Depending on environmental factors, inherent variability may
be constrained by categorical (prescriptive) grammar, or lead through variable
grammars to language change.1
Co-evolution of diﬀerential object marking and ongoing grammaticalization
processes aﬀecting clitics depend on a very complex interaction of semantic
and pragmatic factors. In having undergone reanalysis from a syntactically rela-
tively independent to a less independent element, clitics as head-markers in
grammatical agreement display a more radical historical change than anaphoric
clitics. The complexity of the overall ‘clitic situation’ is increased by the inherent
variability of the third person clitic paradigm.
Another element contributing to the clitic situation is the fundamental
diﬀerences exhibited by the indirect object clitic le and the direct object clitic lo
in relation to grammaticalization stages and markedness. The indirect object
clitic le is at a far more advanced stage than the direct object clitics lo/la which
exhibit mixed properties, speciﬁcally determiner-like properties in relation to (a)
gender marking, (b) genesis from demonstratives, and (c) projectivity, as argued
in chapter two. Particularly relevant is the fact that lo combines both masculine
and neuter gender, it is the default and as such assumes the elsewhere position.
This is the genesis of invariant lo, which can be characterized as an impoverished,
reduced, underspeciﬁed and featureless form in the sense of Greenberg (1966).
As such it is the unmarked member of the direct object clitic paradigm, while
feminine gender and dative case are the marked members. As object markers,
they lose all referential features and individuation, and can assume the double
function of sentence-level verbal markers and discourse markers.
The capacity of invariant lo to project full phrases singles it out as the prime
candidate to act as a propositional anaphor, and allows for syntactic transfer of
locative doubling. In the middle stages of grammaticalization processes, the
entire paradigm attempts to manifest one single grammatical relation which
eventually leads to a single person/object marking system, as has happened
for example in Quiteño Spanish, where lo is in fact restricted to a propositional
anaphor (Suñer 1989; Suñer and Yepéz 1988; Vincent 2001).
1 An example of completed change would be the single dative case system due to extensive
leísmo in Ecuador and Paraguay.
238 Conclusion
The clitic le under extensive leísmo could become constrained to grammatical
agreement, triggering purely clitic doubling constructions in that particular
dialect, as argued by Fernández Soriano (1999). For Limeño Spanish contact
varieties this could mean that optionality in the case of stage III co-evolution of
clitics and diﬀerential object marking as discussed in the ﬁrst part of chapter
four, the latter will lose its viability and give way to objective marking, by either
extending the dative or by creating a new accusative. Over time, Kayne’s General-
ization would no longer apply as diﬀerential object marking could be replaced by
the featureless clitic taking over as objective marker. This constitutes a signiﬁcant
move from dependent-marking to head-marking. It also shows that clitic doubling
and diﬀerential object marking are two separate object marking strategies.
The question whether syncretism of the form for the diﬀerential object
marker and the dative is accidental is an important one and could help settle
the argument about whether the dative “is invading” the space of the accusative
(Company 2001; Fernández Ordóñez 1993, 1999) or is rather the result of the
creation of a new accusative marker (Bossong 1991, 2003). The development of
a new diﬀerential object marker due to dative-accusative syncretism seems to
be part of a crosslinguistic trend, notably in Hindi-Urdu ko, Ibizan Catalan,
Persian râ, and many other languages (Bossong 2003). Reanalysis of the locative
preposition as a grammatical marker for human and personiﬁed objects is
extended to topical speciﬁc inanimates, triggered by free variation of clitics,
apparent leísmo, loísmo, and loss of gender as the last trace of a distinction
between the dative and accusative disappears.
It may well be that the marked form with inherent meaning competes with
the unmarked form, showing a secondary meaning. The shrinking (or simpliﬁed)
paradigm seems to be a dynamic process with covariation or free variation
making optionality, the marked case, as noted in Andrews (1990: 530 n24). This
development can be compared to a study on variation of Irish verb forms, where
Andrews linked optionality to speciﬁc registers having diﬀerent but closely
related grammars. Grammatically marked forms as in feature specifying clitics
would be available only in grammars of higher/prescriptive registers, and un-
marked forms would be restricted to non-standardized dialects. This link
between typological, sociolinguistic and generative theories has been illustrated
in this book through the variability of the Spanish third person pronominal
paradigm across time and space, and the emergence of variable clitic systems.
Free variation of the agreement markers lo/le that evolved into objective
markers is not an accident, but a natural consequence of a very complex con-
stellation of co-occurring historical, language-internal processes, partially inﬂu-
enced by contact and by extralinguistic factors. The long-term evolution, seen
Conclusion 239
within the scope of the evolution of diﬀerential object marking and the con-
current grammaticalization processes aﬀecting object clitics, shows a clear picture
of a move away from co-reference to grammatical objective marking, producing
‘accidental’ mismatches and noisy data on the way.
Local systems of object marking, as we ﬁnd in Limeño Spanish contact
varieties, for example, do not follow canonical patterns of semantic motivation
but are determined by information-structure. Topicality is expressed by gram-
matical marking of a sentence element. In Spanish, grammatical marking by
casemarking and agreement are expressions of topicality on objects. The evidence
presented in this book motivates the analysis of invariant lo including la, in a
laísmo strategy speciﬁc to Limeño Spanish contact varieties, acting as topicality
and transitivity marker. As topic marker, lo marks secondary topic. Furthermore,
based on crosslinguistic similarities such as Hindi/Urdu ko and Persian râ, and
the development in neighbouring Latin American countries with similar contact
situations, I argue that there are suﬃcient grounds to assume that both doubling
strategies, the loísta and the leísta, are in principle the same and present a unique
opportunity to catch a glimpse of language change in action.
This is a possible explanation of invariant lo as topic and transitivity marker
and can be linked to contact mediated through Andean Spanish.2 Contact in the
case of the Limeño Spanish contact varieties data is not stable contact in situ,
but a multilayered contact involving a considerable variety of socio-ethnic,
multilingual and educational backgrounds. Despite these complications, the
data show a surprisingly coherent picture in terms of a linguistic analysis of
grammatical phenomena and inherent variability embedded in a range of external
and internal triggers.
Andean Spanish may have acted as a mediating contact language. The
variability in object marking found in the Limeño Spanish contact dialects
is very similar to Andean Spanish; in some cases, it may even be seen as an
extension of Andean Spanish into an urban setting, or as a speciﬁc point on
the Andean Spanish continuum. It is very likely that the existence of similar
structures and pragmatic strategies in the genetically unrelated contact languages
may have percolated through Andean Spanish into Limeño Spanish contact
varieties and other contact varieties. In Ecuador and Paraguay, where Spanish
has been in direct contact respectively with Quechua and Guaraní, language
contact resulted in extensive leísmo and the use of neuter lo as a propositional
anaphor. Limeño Spanish contact varieties make use of the leísta doubling strategy
for grammatical agreement, and almost exclusive use of the indirect object clitic
2 Nonstandard or ungrammatical clitic usage has often been linked to inﬂuence from Quechua
or other indigenous languages, though detailed studies to clarify the facts are scarce (Adelaar
and Muysken 2004).
240 Conclusion
le for anaphoric agreement. The correlation of grammatical marking with
information-structural encoding is linked to a split object marking system where
both core arguments compete for primary object status.
One may ask, what advantages does an in-depth study of one speciﬁc lan-
guage variety with respect to a speciﬁc phenomenon have, and how representa-
tive and ‘generalizable’ can its results be? One of the aims of this book has been
to demonstrate that the combination of formal approaches to grammar with
typological facts can provide us with new answers to old questions, new in-
sights and results for both ﬁelds, and can also help identify new issues for
future research.
The study presented in this book also oﬀers insights for Second Language
Acquisition research and Language planning, speciﬁcally in relation to contact
situations or bilingual societies, as it shows that in such situations language
inherent instability and processes should be considered and cannot be ignored.
Inherent variability is often almost hidden or misinterpreted as non-perfect learn-
ing outcomes and may lead, reinforced by transfer and structural convergence
through contact, to language change, as shown for example by studies on how
bilingual children deal with the two diﬀerent casemarking strategies (Sánchez
2003, 2004, 2006, 2012). A process that is inevitable, however, is that a deeper
understanding of synchronic variability through diachronic knowledge is useful
for better language learning programs and social acceptance of variation speakers.
This is especially important in the context of strong migratory pressure on
standard varieties in capital cities like Lima.
It is diﬃcult to predict the outcome of the clitic (r)evolution and whether
the featureless form lo will survive in the same, or a diﬀerent form (become
restricted, for example, to a propositional anaphor). As Charles Darwin (Cambridge
1828–1831) said “It is not the strongest of the species that survives. It is the one
most adaptable to change”. If we apply this concept, then the most probable
candidate will be the dative le. The single-case dative clitic paradigm, known as
extensive leísmo in Ecuador and Paraguay, corroborates this to a considerable
extent. This outcome does not contradict the information structural approach
by Dalrymple and Nikolaeva (2011), but only stresses the importance of in-
cluding information structure. What I hope this study has shown is that rules of
syntax can be governed by information structure, thus expressing communica-
tive needs and strategies (Falk 2001: 197). Focusing on pragmatic strategies and
allowing to link grammatically marked direct objects to secondary topic marking
opens a window in time.
Evidence from non-standardized variation data has led me to conclude that
the above-mentioned combination of approaches is not mutually exclusive but
in fact closely linked and that we are probably witnessing language change in
action.
Conclusion 241
References
Abbott, Barbara. 2002. Deﬁniteness and proper names: some bad news for the description
theory. Journal of Semantics 19. 191–201.
Ackermann, Farrell & John Moore. 2001. Proto-Properties and Grammatical Encoding. Stanford
monographs in Linguistics. Stanford: CSLI.
Adelaar, Willem & Pieter Muysken. 2004. The Languages of the Andes. Cambridge Language
Surveys. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Adger, David & Daniel Harbour. 2007. Syntax and syncretisms of the person case constraint.
Syntax 10. 2–37.
Adger, David. 2015. Mythical myths: comments on Vyvyan Evans ’The Language Myth’ Lingua.
76–80.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra. 2002. Language contact in Amazonia. Oxford linguistics. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Aissen, Judith. 1992. Topic and focus in Mayan. Language 68. 43–80.
Aissen, Judith. 2003. Diﬀerential object marking: iconocity vs. economy. Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory 21. 435–483.
Aitchison, Jean. 2001. Language change: Progress or decay?: Cambridge approaches to linguistics.
Cambridge & New York: Cambridge University Press.
Alarcos Llorach, Emilio. 1994. Gramática de la Lengua Española. Madrid: Espasa Calpe, Real
Academia Española.
Albizu, Pablo. 1997. Generalized person-case constraint. In A. Mendikoetxea & M. Uribe-
Etxebarria (eds.), Theoretical issues on the morphology-syntax interface. Supplements of
the international journal of Basque linguistics and philology (ASJU XL), 1–33. Donostia:
Gipuzkoako Foru Aldundia/EHU.
Alexiadou, Artemis & Elena Anagnostopoulou. 2000. Clitic-doubling and (non)conﬁgurationality.
In M. Hirotani, A. Coetzee, N. Hall & J. H. Kim (eds.), Proceedings of the Northeast Linguistic
Society (NELS) 30.
Allen, Cynthia. 1995. Case-marking and reanalysis: Grammatical relations from Old to Early
Modern English. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Allen, Cynthia. 2000. On the development of a friend of mine. In T. Fanego, M. J. López-Couso &
J. Pérez Guerra (eds.), English historical syntax and morphology. Seleted Papers from 11
ICEHL, Santiago de Compostela, 23–41. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Alsina, Alex. 1993. Predicate composition: a theory of syntactic function alternations. Stanford
University PhD dissertation.
Alsina, Alex. 1996a. Passive types and the theory of object assymmetries. Natural Language
and Linguistic Theory 14. 673–723.
Alsina, Alex. 1996b. The role of argument structure in grammar. Evidence from Romance. Center
for the Study of Language and Information. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Alsina, Alex. 2001. On the nonsemantic nature of argument structure. Language Sciences 23.
355–389.
Amable, Hugo. 1975. Las ﬁguras del habla misionera. Santa Fe: Librería y Editorial Colmenga.
Anagnostopoulou, Elena. 1999. Conditions on clitic doubling in Greek. In Martin Everaert &
Hendrik C. van Riemsdijk (eds.), Clitics in the languages of Eurpoe, 761–798. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
DOI 10.1515/9781614514213-008
Anagnostopoulou, Elena. 2006. Clitic doubling. In Martin Everaert & Hendrik C. van Riemsdijk
(eds.), The Blackwell companion to syntax, 519–581. Oxford: Blackwell.
Anderson, Stephen. 2005. Aspects of the theory of clitics. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Andrews, Avery. 1982. The represetation of case in Modern Icelandic. In Joan Bresnan (ed.), The
mental representation of grammatical relations, 427–503. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Andrews, Avery. 1990. Uniﬁcation and morphological blocking. Natural Language and Linguistic
Theory 8(4). 507–557.
Andrews, Avery. 1994. Syntax textbook. The Australian National University manuscript.
Andrews, Avery. 2007. The major functions of the noun phrase. In Timothy Shopen (ed.), Lan-
guage typology and syntactic description, 132–223. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Andrews, Avery & Chris Manning. 1993. Information spreading and levels of representation in
LFG. Stanford Monographs in Linguistics. Stanford, CA CSLI.
Andrews, Avery & Chris Manning. 1999. Complex predicates and information spreading in LFG.
Stanford Monographs in Linguistics. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Appel, René & Pieter Muysken. 1987. Language contact and bilingualism. Arnold Publishers.
Arellano, Ronaldo. 2002a. Las Limas. www.arellanoim.com/laslimas.htm: Arellano Marketing.
Arellano, Ronaldo. 2002b. Psicografía del nuevo consumidor limeño: Lima tradicional y los
conos. http://cdiserver.mba-sil.edu.pe/.. ./consumidor_cononorte.pdf: Arellano Marketing.
Bello, Andrés. 1984. Gramática de la Lengua Castellana. Madrid: EDAF, Ediciones-Distribuciones,
S.A.
Belloro, Valeria. 2007. Spanish clitic doubling: a study of the syntax-pragmatics interface. State
University of New York PhD dissertation.
Benvenutto Murrieta, Pedro Manuel. 1936. El Lenguaje Peruano vol. I. Lima: Talleres de Sanmartí
y Cía.
Bermúdez-Otero, Ricardo & John Payne. 2011. There are no special clitics. In Alexandra Galani,
Glyn Hicks & George Tsoulas (eds.), Morphology and its interfaces, 57–96. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Bhat, Shankara D N. 2004. Pronouns. Oxford Studies in Typology and Linguistic Theory. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Blake, Barry. 2001. Case. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bleam, Tonia. 1999. Leísta Spanish and the syntax of clitic doubling. University of Delaware PhD
dissertation.
Bleam, Tonia. 2003. Properties of the double object construction in Spanish. In Rafael Núñez-
Cedeño, Richard Cameron & Luís López (eds.), A romance perspective on language knowl-
edge and use. (Amsterdam Studies in the Theory and History of Linguistic Science.), 233–
252. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Bögel, Tina. 2010. Pashto (endo-)clitics in a parallel architecture. In Miriam Butt & Tracy
Holloway King (eds.), Proceedings of the LFG10 Conference, 85–105. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Bögel, Tina, Miriam Butt & Sebastian Sulger. 2008. Urdu ezafe and the morphology-syntax
interface. In Miriam Butt & Tracy Holloway King (eds.), Proceedings of the LFG08 Conference,
129–149. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Bögel, Tina, Miriam Butt, Ronald M. Kaplan, Tracy Holloway King & John T. Maxwell III. 2009.
Prosodic phonology in LFG: A new proposal. In Miriam Butt & Tracy Holloway King (eds.),
Proceedings of the LFG09 Conference, 146–166. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Bögel, Tina, Miriam Butt, Ronald M. Kaplan, Tracy Holloway King & John T. Maxwell III. 2010.
Second position and the prosody-syntax interface. In Miriam Butt & Tracy Holloway King
(eds.), Proceedings of the LFG10 Conference, 106–126. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
References 243
Bonet, Eulália. 1991. Morphology after syntax: Pronominal clitics in Romance. Department of
Linguistics and Philosophy, MIT PhD dissertation.
Bonet, Eulália. 1995. Feature structure of romance clitics. Natural Language and Linguistic
Theory 13. 607–647.
Borer, Hagit. 1983. Parametric syntax. Dordrecht: FORIS.
Borer, Hagit (ed.). 1986. Syntax and semantics 19. The syntax of pronominal clitics. New York:
Academic Press.
Börjas, Kersti & Nigel Vincent. 2004. Introduction to LFG. Slides from the winter school in LFG
and computational linguistics. University of Canterbury.
Bosque, Ignacio & Juan Carlos Moreno. 1990. Las construcciones con lo y la denotación del
neutro. Lingüística 2. 5–50.
Bossong, Georg. 1985. Diﬀerentielle Objektmarkierung in den Neuiranischen Sprachen. Tübingen:
Narr.
Bossong, Georg. 1989. Morphemic marking of topic and focus. In Michel Kefer & Johan van
der Auwera (eds.), Belgian Journal of Linguistics 4: Universals of Language, 27–51.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Bossong, Georg. 1991. Diﬀerential object marking in Romance and beyond. In Dieter Wanner &
Douglas A. Kibbee (eds.), New analyses in Romance linguistics, 143–185. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Bossong, Georg. 2003. Nominal and/or verbal marking of central actants. In Giuliana Fiorentino
(ed.) Romance objects. Transitivity in Romance languages, 17–49. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Brandner, Ellen. 2006. Patterns of doubling in Alemannic. Edysin Workshop Amsterdam: Meertens
Institute.
Bresnan, Joan. 1978. A realistic transformational grammar. In Morris Halle, Joan Bresnan &
George A. Miller (eds.), Linguistic theory and psychological reality, 1–59. Cambridge, MA:
The MIT Press.
Bresnan, Joan (ed.). 1982. The mental representation of grammatical relations. (Series on
Cognitive Theory and Mental Representation). Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
Bresnan, Joan. 1997. The emergence of the unmarked pronoun: Chicheŵa pronominals in
Optimality Theory. Berkeley Linguistics Society 23. 26–46.
Bresnan, Joan. 1998. Morphology competes with syntax: Explaining typological variation in
weak crossover eﬀects. In Pilar Barbosa, Danny Fox, Paul Hagstrom, Martha McGinnis &
David Pesetsky (eds.), Is the best good enough? Optimality and competition in syntax,
59–92. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press & MIT Working Papers.
Bresnan, Joan. 2001a. The emergence of the unmarked pronoun. In Géraldine Legendre, Sten
Vikner & Jane Grimshaw (eds.), Optimality-theoretic syntax, 113–142. Cambridge, MA: The
MIT Press.
Bresnan, Joan. 2001b. Explaining morphosyntactic competition. In Mark Baltin & Chris Collins
(eds.), The handbook of contemporary syntactic theory, 11–44. Oxford: Blackwell.
Bresnan, Joan. 2001c. Lexical-functional syntax. Oxford: Blackwell.
Bresnan, Joan. 2007. A few lessons from typology. Linguistic Typology 11(1). 297–306.
Bresnan, Joan & Sam Mchombo. 1987. Topic, pronoun and agreement in Chicheŵa. Language
63. 741–782.
Bresnan, Joan & Jonni M. Kanerva. 1989. Locative inversion in Chichewa: A case study of
factorization in grammar. Linguistic Inquiry 20(1). 1–50.
Bresnan, Joan & Lioba Moshi. 1990. Object asymmetries in comparative Bantu syntax. Linguistic
Inquiry 21. 147–186.
244 References
Bresnan, Joan & Ashwini Deo. 2000. “Be” in the Survey of English Dialects: A stochastic OT
account. Paper presented at The Symposium on Optimality Theory, Kobe, English Linguistic
Society of Japan.
Bresnan, Joan & Judith Aissen. 2002. Optimality and functionality: objections and refutations.
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 20(1). 81–95.
Bresnan, Joan, Ashwini Deo & Devyani Sharma. 2007. Typology in variation: A probabilistic
approach to ‘be’ and ‘n’t’ in the Survey of English Dialects. English Language and Linguis-
tics 11(2). 301–346.
Bresnan, Joan, Ash Asudeh, Ida Toivonen & Stephen Wechsler. 2016. Lexical-functional syntax.
vol. 16. John Wiley & Sons.
Brugè, Laura & Gerhard Brugger. 1996. On the accusative a in Spanish. Probus 8. 1–51.
Butt, John & Carmen Benjamin. 2004. A new reference grammar of Modern Spanish. London:
Arnold.
Butt, Miriam. 1993. Object speciﬁcity and agreement in Hindi-Urdu. In K. Beals & G. Cooke
(eds.), Papers from the 29th regional meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society, 89–104.
Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society.
Butt, Miriam. 2005. Theories in case. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Butt, Miriam. 2008. From spatial expression to core case marker: Ergative and dative/accusative.
ANU, Canberra: Seminar handout.
Butt, Miriam & Tracy Holloway King. 1996. Structural topic and focus without movement. In Pro-
ceedings of the ﬁrst LFG Conference, (eds.) Miriam Butt & Tracy Holloway King: Grenoble:
Rank Xerox.
Calvo, Pérez Julio. 1996–1997. Pronominalización en Español e inﬂuencia del Quechua y del
Aimara: Homenaje al Dr Germán de Granda. Anuario de Lingüística Hispánica 12–13(2).
521–544.
Calvo, Pérez Julio. 2000. Partículas en castellano andino. In Pérez Julio Calvo (ed.) Teoría
y práctica del contacto: El español de América en el candelero, 73–112. Madrid:
Iberoamericana.
Calvo Pérez, Julio. 2008. Perú. In Alcaine Azucena Palacios (ed.) El español en América, 189–
212. Barcelona: Ariel S.A.
Camacho, José. 1999. From SOV to SVO: the grammar of interlanguage word order. Second Lan-
guage Research 15. 115–132.
Camacho, José & Liliana Sánchez. 2002. Explaining clitic variation in Spanish. In Mengistu
Amberber & Peter Collins (eds.), Formal approaches to language universals and language
variation, 21–41. Norwood: Ablex.
Camacho, José, Liliana Paredes & Liliana Sánchez. 1995. The genitive clitic and the genitive
construction in Andean Spanish. Probus 7. 133–147.
Campbell, Lyle. 1995. The Quechumaran hypothesis and lessons for distant genetic comparison.
Diachronica 12(2). 157–200.
Campos, Héctor. 1991a. Silent objects and subjects in Spanish. In Héctor Campos & Fernando
Martínez-Gil (eds.), Current studies in Spanish linguistics, 117–141. Washington, D.C.:
Georgetown University Press.
Campos, M. A. 1991b. El uso de los pronombres de objeto en el español de Moyobamba.
Pontiﬁcia Universidad Católica del Perú PhD thesis.
Caravedo, Rocio. 1990. Sociolingüística del Español de Lima. Pontiﬁcia Universidad Católica del
Perú: Fondo Editorial.
References 245
Caravedo, Rocio. 1996–1997. Pronombres objeto en el español andino. Anuario de Lingüística
Hispánica 12–13(2). 545–568.
Caravedo, Rocio. 1999. Lingüística del Corpus: Cuestiones Teórico-Metodológicas Aplicadas al
Español. vol. 6: Gramática Española: Enseñanza e Investigación. Salamanca: Ediciones
Universidad de Salamanca.
Cardinaletti, Anna & Michael Starke. 1996. Deﬁcient pronouns: A view from Germanic. In
Höskuldur Thráinsson, Samuel D. Epstein & Steve Peter (eds.), Studies in comparative
germanic syntax, 21–65. The Netherlands: Kluwer.
Cardinaletti, Anna & Michael Starke. 1999. The typology of structural deﬁciency: A case study
of the three classes of pronouns. In Henk van Riemsdijk (ed.) Clitics and the languages of
Europe, 145–233. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Cerrón Palomino, Rodolfo. 1987. Lingüística quechua. Cuzco: Centro de Estudios Rurales Andinos
‘Bartolomé de las Casas’.
Cerrón Palomino, Rodolfo. 1992. La forja del castellano andino o el penoso camino de la
ladinización. In Rodolfo Cerrón-Palomino (ed.) Historia y presente del Español de América.
Valladolid: Universidad de Valladolid.
Cerrón Palomino, Rodolfo. 1994. Quechumara. Estructuras paralelas de las lenguas Quechua y
Aimara. La Paz, Bolivia: Centro de Investigación y Promoción del Campesinado.
Cerrón Palomino, Rodolfo. 1995. Guamán Poma redivivo o el castellano rural andino. In Klaus
Zimmermann (ed.) Lenguas en contacto en Hispanoamérica, 161–172. Frankfurt: Vervuert.
Cerrón Palomino, Rodolfo. 2003. Castellano Andino. Aspectos Sociolingüísticos, Pedagógicos y
Gramaticales. Pontiﬁcia Universidad Católica del Perú: Fondo Editorial.
Chatsiou, Aikaterini. 2006. On the status of resumptive pronouns in Modern Greek restrictive
clauses. In Miriam Butt & Tracy Hollaway King (eds.), Proceedings of the LFG06 Con-
ference, 71–90. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Chaudron, Craig. 2003. Data collection in second language acquisition research. In Handbook
of second language acquisition. Malden, MA: Blackwell.
Chirinos Rivera, Andrés. 2001. Atllas Lingüístico del Perú. Cuzco & Lima: Centro Bartolomé de
las Casas.
Choi, Jinny K. 2000. [Person]-direct object drop: the genetic cause of a syntactic feature in
Paraguayan Spanish. Hispania 83. 531–543.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 1988. On si constructions and the theory of arb. Linguistic Inquiry 19. 521–
582.
Cole, Peter. 1985. Imbabura Quechua. Croom Helm descriptive grammars. London: Croom Helm.
Company, Concepción. 1998. The interplay between language and meaning. Studies in Lan-
guage 22(3). 529–565.
Company, Concepción. 2000. El avance diacrónico de la marcación prepositiva en objetos
directos inanimados. In Alberto Bernabé & José Antonio Berenguer (eds.), Presente y
Futuro de la Lingüística en España. La Sociedad de Lingüística, 30 Años después, 146–
154. Madrid: Infoprint, S.L.
Company, Concepción. 2001. Multiple dative-marking grammaticalization. Spanish as a special
kind of primary object language. Studies in Language 25(1). 1–47.
Company, Concepción. 2003. Transitivity and grammaticalization of object, the struggle of direct
and indirect object in Spanish. In Giuliana Fiorentino (ed.), Romance objects. Transitivity
in Romance languages. (Empirical Approaches to Language Typology), 217–260. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
246 References
Comrie, Bernard. 1997. The typology of predicate case marking. In Joan Bybee, John Haiman &
Sandra A. Thompson (eds.), Essays on language function and language type. Dedicated to
T. Givón, 39–50. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Comrie, Bernard. 2003. When agreement gets trigger-happy. Transactions of the Philological
Society 23. 50–61.
Contreras, Heles & Jorge Rojas. 1972. Some remarks on Spanish clitics. Linguistic Inquiry 3.
385–392.
Coronel-Molina, Serafín & Miguel Rodríguez-Mondoñedo. 2012. Introduction: Language contact
in the Andes and universal grammar. Lingua 122(5). 447–460.
Costa, João & Nancy C. Kula. 2003. Focus at the interface. Evidence from Romance and Bantu.
In Cécile de Cat & Katherine Demuth (eds.), The Bantu-Romance connection. Amsterdam &
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Croft, William. 1988. Agreement vs. case marking and direct objects. In Michael Barlow &
Charles A. Ferguson (eds.), Agreement in natural languages, 159–179. Stanford: CSLI.
Croft, William. 1991. Syntactic categories and grammatical relations. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Croft, William. 2000. Explaining language change: An evolutionary approach. London: Longman.
Cuervo, Ruﬁno José. 1895. Los casos enclíticos y proclíticos del pronombre de tercera persona
en castellano. Romania 24. 95–113; 219–263.
Cusihuamán, Antonio. 1976. Gramática Quechua. Lima: Instituto de Estudios Peruanos.
Dal Negro, Silvia. 1998. Spracherhaltung in der Beiz – das Überleben von der Walsersprache zu
Pomatt/Formazza. Wir Walser 36. 13–16.
Dalrymple, Mary. 2001. Lexical functional grammar. vol. 34: Syntax and semantics. San Diego &
London: Academic Press Elsevier Science.
Dalrymple, Mary. 2009. Lexical functional grammar. Comparing frameworks. Centre for Linguistics
and Philology, Oxford University manuscript.
Dalrymple, Mary & Louise Mycock. 2011. The prosody-semantics interface. In Miriam Butt &
Tracy Holloway King (eds.), Proceedings of LFG11 Conference, 173–193. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Dalrymple, Mary & Irina Nikolaeva. 2011. Objects and information structure. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
de Granda, Germán. 1988. Sociedad, Historia y Lengua en el Paraguay. Bogotá: Instituto Caro y
Cuervo.
de Granda, Germán. 2001. Estudios de Lingüística Andina. Lima: Pontiﬁcia Universidad Católica
del Perú.
Deal, Amy. 2007. Property-type objects and modal embedding. Brandeis University mansucript.
Demonte Barreto, Violeta. 1994a. Datives in Spanish. In L. Bruge & R. Dolci (eds.), University of
Venice Working Papers in Linguistics. Venezia: University of Venice.
Demonte, Violeta. 1994b. On certain asymmetries between DOs and IOs. In Guglielmo Cinque,
Jan Koster, Jean-Yves Pollock, Luigi Rizzi & Raﬀaella Zanuttini (eds.), Paths towards uni-
versal grammar: Studies in honour of Richard S. Kayne, 111–120. Washington, D.C.:
Georgetown University Press.
Diessel, Holger. 1999. Demonstratives: form, function, and grammaticalization. Amsterdam &
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Dinnsen, Daniel. 1972. Additional constraints on clitic order in Spanish. In Bohdan Saciuk &
Jean Casagrande (eds.), Generative studies in Romance languages. Rowley, MA: Newbury
House.
References 247
Dione, Cheikh M. Bamba. 2013. Handling Wolof clitics in LFG. In Christine Mecklenborg Salvesen
& Hans Petter Helland (eds.), Challenging clitics, 87–118. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Dorian, Nancy C. 2001. Surprises in Sutherland: Linguistic variability amidst social uniformity.
In Paul Newman & Martha Ratcliﬀ (eds.), Linguistic ﬁeldwork, 133–151. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Dowty, David. 1991. Thematic proto-roles and argument selection. Language 67(3). 547–619.
Dryer, Matthew. 1986. Primary objects, secondary objects, and antidative. Language 62(4).
808–845.
Duranti, Alessandro & Charles Goodwin. 1992. Rethinking context: Language as an interactive
phenomenon. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Egerland, Werner. 2005. Diachronic change and pronoun status: Italian dative loro. Linguistics
43(6). 1105–1130.
Ellis, Rod. 2008. The study of second language acquisition. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Enc, Mürvet. 1991. The semantics of speciﬁcity. Linguistic Inquiry 22(1). 1–26.
Escandell-Vidal, Victoria. 2007. Topics from Ibiza: Diﬀerential object marking and clitic disloca-
tion. In Georg A. Kaiser & Manuel Leonetti (eds.), Deﬁniteness, speciﬁcity and animacy in
Ibero-Romance languages. Universität Konstanz.
Escobar, Alberto. 1978. Variaciones sociolingüísticas del castellano en el Perú. vol. 18: Peru
Problema. Lima: Instituto de Estudios Peruanos.
Escobar, Anna María. 1988. Hacia una Tipología del Bilingüismo en el Perú. Lima: Instituto de
Estudios Peruanos.
Escobar, Anna María. 1990. Los Bilingües y el Castellano en el Perú. Lima: Instituto de Estudios
Peruanos.
Escobar, Anna María. 1994. Andean Spanish and bilingual Spanish: linguistic characteristics.
In Peter Cole, Gabriella Hermon & Martín Mario (eds.), Language in the Andes (Latin
American Studies), 51–73: University of Delaware.
Escobar, Anna María. 2000. Contacto Social y Lingüístico. El Español en Contacto con el
Quechua en el Perú. Lima: Instituto de Estudios Peruanos.
Estigarribia, Bruno. 2005. Why clitic doubling? A functional analysis for Rioplatense Spanish. In
Miriam Butt & Tracy Holloway King (eds.), Proceedings of the LFG05 Conference, 116–135:
Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Estigarribia, Bruno. 2006. Rioplatense Spanish clitic doubling and ’tripling’ in lexical-functional
grammar. In Chad Howe, Sarah E. Blackwell & Margaret Lubbers Quesada (eds.), Selected
Proceedings of the 15th Hispanic Linguistics Symposium, 297–309. Somerville: Cascadilla
Proceedings Project.
Everett, Daniel. 1996. Why there are no clitics: An alternative perspective on pronominal allo-
morphy. Dallas: The Summer Institute of Linguistics & The University of Texas at Arlington.
Falk, Yehuda N. 2001. Lexical-functional grammar. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Farkas, Donka. 2002. Speciﬁcity distinctions. Journal of Semantics 19(3). 213–245.
Farrell, Patrick. 1990. Null objects in Brazilian Portuguese. Natural Language & Linguistic
Theory 8(3). 325–346.
Fernández Ordóñez, Inés. 1993. Leísmo, laísmo y loísmo: estado de la cuestión. In Olga
Fernández Soriano (ed.), Los pronombre átonos, 63–96. Madrid: Taurus.
Fernández Ordóñez, Inés. 1994. Isoglosas internas del castellano. El sistema referencial del
pronombre átono de tercera personal. Revista de Filología Española 74. 71–125.
248 References
Fernández Ordóñez, Inés. 1999. Leísmo, Laísmo y Loísmo. In Ignacio Bosque Muñoz & Violeta
Demonte Barreto (eds.), Gramática descriptiva de la lengua española, 1317–1397. Madrid:
Espasa Calpe.
Fernández Ordóñez, Inés. 2007. El ‘neutro de materia’ en Asturias y Cantabria. Análisis gramat-
ical y nuevos datos. In Inmaculada Delgado Cobos & Alicia Ocal Puigvert (eds.), Ex
admiratione et amiciticia, 395–434. Madrid: Ediciones del Orto.
Fernández Ordóñez, Inés. 2009. Dialect grammar of Spanish from the perspective of the
Audible Corpus of Spoken Rural Spanish (or Corpus Oral y Sonoro del español Rural
(COSER). Dialectología 3. 23–51.
Fernández Ordóñez, Inés. 2012. Dialectal areas and linguistic change. In Gunther de Vogelaer &
Guido Seiler (eds.), The dialect laboratory. Dialects as a testing ground for theories of
language change, 73–106. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Fernández Soriano, Olga. 1999. El pronombre personal. Formas y distribuciones. Pronombres
átonos y tónicos. In Violeta Demonte Barreto & Ignacio Bosque (eds.), Gramática descrip-
tiva de la lengua española. Madrid: Espasa Calpe.
Fillmore, Charles J. 1968. The case for case. In Emond Bach & Robert Harms (eds.), Universals
in linguistic theory, 1–88. New York: Rinehart & Winston.
Fodor, Janet & Ivan Sag. 1982. Referential and quantiﬁcational indeﬁnites. Linguistics and
Philosophy 5. 355–398.
Francis Soriano, Susana. 1960. Habla y Literatura Popular en la Antigua Capital Chiapaneca.
México: Instituto Nacional Indigenista.
Franco, Jon & Alazne Landa. 2003. Null objects revisited. In Rafael Núñez-Cedeño, Luís López &
Richard Cameron (eds.), A romance perspective on language knowledge and use. Selected
papers from the 31st Linguistic Symposium on Romance Languages (LSRL) (Amsterdam
Studies in the Theory and History of Linguistic Science), 311–326. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Franco, Jon & Alazne Landa. 2006. Preverbal n-words and anti-agreement eﬀects. In Nuria
Sagarra & Almeida Jacqueline Toribio (eds.), Selected Proceedings of the 9th Hispanic
Linguistics Symposium, 34–42. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Proceedings Project.
Franco, Jon & Susana Huidobro. 2008. Ethical datives, clitic doubling and the theory of pro.
In Joyce Bruhn de Garavito & Elena Valenzuela (eds.), Selected Proceedings of the 10th
Hispanic Linguistics Symposium, 215–224. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Proceedings Project.
Franks, Steven & Tracy Holloway King. 2000. A handbook of Slavic clitics. Oxford: Oxford Uni-
versity Press.
Gabaldón, Manuel Amorós, Javier Bercial Sanz, María de los Ángeles Rubio Haro, Francisco
Moreno Fernández & Francisco Corrales Fernández. 1988. Anotaciones sobre el leísmo, el
laísmo y el loísmo en la provincia de Madrid. Epos: Revista de ﬁlología(4). 101–122.
Garatea Grau, Carlos. 2009. Español de América, español del Perú. Sobre normas y tradiciones
discursivas. Lexis 28(1–2). 397–428.
García, Erica. 1990. Bilingüismo e interferencia sintáctica. Lexis XIV. 151–195.
Gerlach, Birgit & Janet Grijzenhout (eds.). 2000. Clitics in phonology, morphology and syntax.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Givón, Talmy. 1976. Topic, pronoun, and grammatical agreement. In Charles Li (ed.), Subject
and topic, 149–188. New York: Academic Press.
Givón, Talmy. 1979. On understanding grammar. Perspectives in neurolinguistics and psycho-
linguistics. New York: Academic Press.
References 249
Givón, Talmy (ed.). 1983. Topic continuity in discourse: A quantitative cross-language study.
vol. 3. (Typological Studies in Language (TSL)). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Givón, Talmy. 1984. Syntax: A functional-typological introduction. vol. 1. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Givón, Talmy. 1988. The pragmatics of word-order: predictability, importance and attention In
Michael Hammond, Edith Moravcsik & J. Wirth (eds.), Studies in syntactic typology, 244–
284. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Givón, Talmy. 1990. Syntax: A functional-typological introduction. vol. 2. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Givón, Talmy (ed.). 1997. Grammatical relations: A functionalist perspective. vol. 35. (Typological
Studies in Language (TSL)). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Glaser, Elvira. 1993. Syntaktische Strategien zum Ausdruck von Indeﬁnitheit und Partitivität
im Deutschen (Standardsprache und Dialekt). In Werner Abraham & Josef Bayer (eds.),
Dialektsyntax, 99–116. Opladen: Westdeutscher Verlag.
Godenzzi, Juan Carlos. 1986. Pronombre del objeto directo e indirecto del castellano en Puno.
Lexis 10. 187–201.
Green, John. 1988. Spanish. In Martin Harris & Nigel Vincent (eds.), The Romance languages
(Croom Helm Romance Linguistics Series), 79–130. London: Croom Helm.
Greenberg, Joseph. 1966. Language universals. With special reference to feature hierarchies.
The Hague: Mouton.
Grimshaw, Jane. 1982a. On the lexical representation of romance reﬂexive clitics. In Joan
Bresnan (ed.), The mental representation of grammatical relations (Cognitive Theory and
Mental Representation), 87–148. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
Grimshaw, Jane. 1982b. Subcategorization and grammatical relations. In Annie Zaenen (ed.)
Subjects and other subjects, 35–57. Bloomington: Indiana University Linguistics Club.
Grimshaw, Jane. 1997a. The best clitic: Constraint interaction in morphosyntax. In Liliane Hae-
gemann (ed.), Elements of grammar: A handbook of contemporary syntactic theory, 169–
196. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Grimshaw, Jane. 1997b. Projection, heads and optimality. Linguistic Inquiry 28. 373–422.
Grimshaw, Jane. 2001. Optimal clitic position and the lexicon in Romance clitics systems. In
Géraldine Legendre, Jane Grimshaw & Sten Vikner (eds.), Optimality-theoretic syntax,
205–240. London: Routledge.
Gutierrez Ordoñez, Salvador. 1999. Los dativos. In Ignacio Bosque Muñoz & Violeta Demonte
Barreto (eds.), Gramática descriptiva de la lengua esapñola, 1855–1930. Madrid: Espasa
Calpe.
Haboud, Marleen. 1996. Quechua and Spanish in the Ecuadorian Andes: The eﬀects of pro-
longed contact. University of Oregon PhD dissertation.
Haboud, Marleen. 1997. Grammaticalization, clause union and grammatical relations in Ecua-
dorian Highland Spanish. In Talmy Givon (ed.), Grammatical relations: A functionalist
perspective (Typological Studies In Language (TSL)). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hale, Kenneth. 1973. Person marking in Warlpiri. In Stephen Anderson & Paul Kiparsky (eds.),
A festschrift for Morris Halle, 308–344. New York: Holt, Reinhart & Winston.
Halpern, Aaron L. 1995. On the placement and morphology of clitics. Stanford: CSLI PhD
dissertation.
Halpern, Aaron L. & Arnold Zwicky (eds.). 1996. Approaching second. Second position clitics
and related phenomena. (CSLI Lecture notes number 61). Stanford: CSLI.
250 References
Hanssen, Federico. 1945. Gramática histórica de la lengua castellana. Buenos Aires: Librería y
Editorial “El Ateneo”.
Harris, Alice C. & Lyle Campbell (eds.). 1995. Historical syntax in cross-linguistic perspective.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Harris, James. 1994. The syntax-phonology mapping in Catalan and Spanish clitics. In Andrew
Carnie & Heidi Harley (eds.), Papers on morphology and phonology, 321–353. Cambridge:
MIT Working Papers in Linguistics.
Harris, James. 1995. The morphology of Spanish clitics. In Hector Campos & Paula Kempchinsky
(eds.), Evolution and revolution in linguistic theory 168–197. Washington: Georgetown Uni-
versity Press.
Haspelmath, Martin. 2004. Explaining the Ditransitive Person-Role Constraint: A usage-based
account. Constructions (free online journal, University of Düsseldorf ) 2. 1–71.
Heap, David. 1998. Optimalizing iberian clitic sequences. In José Lema & Estelha Treviño (eds.),
Theoretical analyses on Romance languages: Selected papers from the 26th Linguistic
Symposium on Romance languages (LSRL XXVI) (Series IV- Current Issues in Linguistic
Theory), 227–248. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Heath, Jeﬀrey. 1984. Functional grammar of Nunggubuyu. Canberra: Australian Institute of
Aboriginal Studies.
Heim, Irene. 1988. The semantics of deﬁnite and indeﬁnite noun phrases. New York & London:
Garland Publishing, Inc.
Henn-Memmesheimer, Beate. 1997. Non-standard syntax in German. In Jenny Cheshire & Dieter
Stein (eds.), Taming the vernacular: From dialect to written standard language, 232–249.
London & New York: Longmann.
Hoekstra, Teun & Rint Sybesma. 2004. Arguments and stucture. Studies on the architecture of
the sentence. Berlin: De Gruyter.
Holloway King, Tracy. 2005. Clitics in LFG. In Miriam Butt & Tracy Holloway King (eds.), Proceed-
ings of the LFG05 Conference, 226–237. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Hopper, Paul J & Elizabeth Closs Traugott. 2003. Grammaticalization. Second Edition. Cam-
bridge Textbooks in Linguistics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hopper, Paul J. & Sandra A. Thompson. 1980. Transitivity in grammar and discourse. Language
56(2). 251–299.
Hopper, Paul J. & Elizabeth C. Traugott. 1993. Grammaticalization. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
Jackendoﬀ, Ray. 1990. Semantic structures. Cambridge, MA: Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Jaegger, Florian & Veronica Gerassimova. 2002. Bulgarian word order and the role of the direct
object clitic in LFG. In Miriam Butt & Tracy Hollaway King (eds.), Proceedings of the LFG02
Conference, 197–219. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Jaeggli, Osvaldo. 1982. Topics in Romance syntax. vol. 12: Studies in Generative Grammar.
Dordrecht: Foris.
Jendraschek, Gerd. 2007. Basque in contact with Romance languages. In Alexandra Aikhenvald
& Robert M. W. Dixon (eds.), Grammars in contact, 143–162. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Joseph, Brian D. & Richard D. Janda (eds.). 2003. The handbook of historical linguistics. Malden
& Oxford: Blackwell.
Kany, Charles E. 1967. American Spanish syntax. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Kaplan, Ron & Joan Bresnan. 1982. Lexical-functional grammar: A formal system for grammatical
representation. In Joan Bresnan (ed.), The mental representation of grammatical relations,
173–281. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
References 251
Kayne, Richard. 1975. French syntax. The transformational cycle. Current Studies in Linguistics.
Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
Kayne, Richard. 1989. Null subject and clitic climbing. In Osvaldo Jaeggli & Ken Saﬁr (eds.),
The null subject parameter (Studies in Natural Language and Linguistic Theory), 239–261.
Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Kayne, Richard. 1990. Romance clitics and PRO. In Proceedings of the North East Linguistics
Society Conference: University of Massachusetts, Amherst; The Graduate Linguistic Student
Association.
Kiparsky, Paul. 1998. Partitive case and aspect. In Wilhelm Geuder & Miriam Butt (eds.), The
projection of arguments, 265–307. Stanford: CSLI.
Kiss, Katalina E. 1998. Identiﬁcational focus versus informational focus. Language 74(2). 245–
273.
Kittilä, Seppo. 2002. Remarks on the basic transitive sentence. Language Sciences 242. 1907–
1130.
Kittilä, Seppo. 2005. Optional marking of arguments. Language Sciences 27. 483–514.
Klavans, Judith L. 1985. The independence of syntax and phonology in cliticization. Language
61. 95–120.
Klee, Carol. 1989. The acquisition of clitic pronouns in the Spanish interlanguage of Peruvian
Spanish Quechua speakers. Hispania 72. 402–408.
Klee, Carol. 1990. Spanish-Quechua language contact: The clitic pronoun system in Andean
Spanish. Word 41(1). 35–46.
Klee, Carol & Rocio Caravedo. 2005. Contact-induced language change in Lima. In David
Eddington (ed.), Selected Proceedings of the 7th Hispanic Linguistics Symposium, 12–21.
Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Project.
Klee, Carol & Rocio Caravedo. 2006. Andean Spanish and the Spanish of Lima: Linguistic varia-
tion and change in a contact situation. In Claire Mar-Molinero & Miranda Stewart (eds.),
Globalization and language in the Spanish-speaking world: Macro and micro perspectives,
94–113. New York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Klein-Andreu, Flora. 1981. Distintos sistemas de empleo le, la, lo. Perspectiva sincrónica,
diacrónica y sociolingüísta. Thesaurus 36. 1–21.
Klein-Andreu, Flora. 1992. “Understanding Standards”. In Garry W. Davis & Gregory K. Iverson
(eds.), Explanation in historical linguistics, 169–178. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Kornfeld, Laura & Ines Kuguel. 2006. Morphosyntactic and lexical-semantic properties of re in
Argentinian Spanish. In Romania Nova II: Universidade Federal de Alagoas, Brazil.
Kroch, Anthony. 1994. Morphosyntactic variation. In K. Beals et al. (eds.), Proceedings of the
Thirtieth Annual Meeting of the Chicago Linguistics Society 180–201. Chicago: Chicago
Linguistics Society.
Kroeger, Paul. 1993. Phrase structure and grammatical relations in Tagalog. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Kroeger, Paul. 2004. Analyzing syntax: A lexical-functional approach. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Laca, Brenda. 2002. Gramaticalización y variabilidad: propiedades inherentes y factores con-
textuales en la evolución del acusativo preposicional en español. In Andreas Wensch,
Waltraud Weidenbusch, Rolf Kailuweit & Brenda Laca (eds.), Sprachgeschichte als Varie-
tätengeschichte. Historia de las variedades lingüísticas, 195–206. Tübingen: Stauﬀenburg
Verlag.
Laca, Brenda. 2006. El objeto directo. La marcación preposicional. In Concepción Company
(ed.) Sintaxis histórica de la lengua española, 421–475. México DF: Universidad Autónoma
de México.
252 References
Laenzlinger, Christopher. 1998. Comparative studies in word order variation. Adverbs, pro-
nouns, and clause structure in Romance and Germanic. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Laﬁtte, Pierre. 1944/2001. Grammaire Basque. Navarro-Labourdin littéraire. Donostia/Baiona:
Elkarlanean.
Lakämper, Renate & Dieter Wunderlich. 1998. Person marking in Quechua – a constraint-based
minimalist analysis. Lingua 105. 113–148.
Lakoﬀ, George. 1968. Pronouns and reference. Bloomington: Indiana University Linguistics
Club.
Lambrecht, Knud. 1994. Information structure and sentence form. Topic, focus and the mental
tepresentations of ﬁscourse referents. vol. 71: Cambridge Studies in Linguistics. Cambridge:
Oxford University Press.
Landa, Miren Alazne. 1995. Conditions on null objects in Basque Spanish and their relation to
leísmo and clitic doubling. University of Southern California PhD dissertation.
Landerman, Peter Nelson. 1991. Quechua dialects and their classiﬁcation. University of
California PhD dissertation.
Lapesa, Rafael. 1964. El Andaluz y el Español de América. Madrid.
Lapesa, Rafael. 1968. Sobre los orígenes y evolución del leísmo, laísmo y loísmo. In Kurt
Baldinger (ed.) Festschrift Walther von Wartburg zum 80. Geburtstag, 523–551. Tübingen:
Max Niemeyer.
Lapesa, Rafael. 2000. Estudios de Morfosintaxis Histórica del Español. Madrid: Gredos.
Laughren, Mary & Susana Eisenchlas. 2006. The role of animacy and deﬁniteness in the clitic-
DP nexus. In Keith Allen (ed.), Selected Papers from the 2005 Conference of the Australian
Linguistic Society. Australian Linguistic Society.
Lazard, Gilbert. 2003. What is an object in a crosslinguistic perspective. In Giuliana Fiorentino
(ed.) Romance objects. Transitivity in Romance languages, 1–16. Berlin & New York: Mouton
de Gruyter.
Lefebvre, Claire & Pieter Muysken. 1988. Mixed categories. Nominalizations in Quechua. Studies
in Natural Language and Linguistic Theory. Dordrecht, Boston & London: Kluwer Academic
Publishers.
Leonetti, Manuel. 1999. El artículo. In Ignacio Bosque Muñoz & Violeta Demonte Barreto (eds.),
Gramática descriptiva de la lengua española (Real Academia Española. Colección Nebrija
y Bello), 787–890. Madrid: Espasa Calpe.
Leonetti, Manuel. 2004. Speciﬁcity and diﬀerential object marking in Spanish. Catalan Journal
of Linguistics 3. 75–114.
Leonetti, Manuel. 2007. Clitics do not encode speciﬁcity. In Georg Kaiser & Manuel Leonetti
(eds.), Proceedings of the Workshop “Deﬁniteness, Speciﬁcity and Animacy in Ibero-
Romance Languages”, 111–139. Universität Konstanz: Fachbereich Sprachwissenschaft
(Arbeitspapier 122).
Leonetti, Manuel. 2008. Speciﬁcity in clitic doubling and in diﬀerential object marking. Probus
20. 33–66.
Lipski, John M. 1994. Latin American Spanish. London & New York: Longman.
Lipski, John M. 2007a. Castile and the hydra: The diversiﬁcation of Spanish in Latin America.
Paper presented at Iberian Imperialism and Language Evolution in Latin America.
Lipski, John M. 2007b. El español en el América en contacto con otras lenguas. In Manuel
Lacorte (ed.) Lingüística aplicada del español, 309–345. Madrid: Arcos Libros.
References 253
Lipski, John M. 2014. The many faces of Spanish dialect diversiﬁcation in Latin America. In
Salikoko S. Mufwene (ed.), Iberian imperialism and language evolution in Latin America,
38–75. Georgetown: The Georgetown University Press.
Lope Blanch, Juan Miguel. 1971. La inﬂuencia del sustrato en la grámatica del español mexicano
Homenaje a Daniel Cosío Villegas, 181–190. México: El Colegio de México.
Lorenzino, Gerardo Augusto. 2003. Bilingüismo y migración urbana: El Quechua Santiagueño.
In Lofti Sayahi (ed.), Selected Proceedings of the First Workshop on Spanish Sociolinguistics,
53–60. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Proceedings Project.
Lowe, John J. 2011. Rgvedic clitics and ’prosodic’ movement. In Miriam Butt & Tracy Holloway
King (eds.), Proceedings of the LFG11 Conference, 360–380. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Lowe, John J. 2014. Accented clitics in the Rgveda. Transactions of the Philological Society
112(1). 5–43.
Lowe, John J. 2015. Separating syntax and prosody. Journal of Linguistics. 1–45.
Luís, Ana R. & Louisa Sadler. 2003. Object clitic and marked morphology. In Claire Beyssade,
Oliver Bonami, Patricia Cabredo Hofherr & Francis Corblin (eds.), Empirical issues in formal
syntax and semantics 4, 133–154. Paris: Presses, de l’ Université de Paris-Sorbonne.
Luís, Ana R. & Ryo Otoguro. 2005. Morphologial and syntactic well-formedness: The case of
European Portuguese proclitics. In Miriam Butt & Tracy Hollaway King (eds.), Proceedings
of the LFG05 Conference, 253–270. Standford, CA: CSLI.
Luján, Marta. 1987. Clitic-doubling in Andean Spanish and the theory of case absorption. In
Terrell A. Morgan, James F. Lee & Bill Vanpatten (eds.), Language and language use:
Studies in Spanish, 109–121. Washington: University Press of America.
Luján, Marta & Teresa Parodi. 1996. Clitic doubling and the acquisition of agreement in Spanish.
In Javier Gutiérrez-Rexach & Luis Silva-Villar (eds.), Perspectives on Spanish linguistics,
119–138. Los Angeles: UCLA.
Lyons, Christopher. 1990. An agreement approach to clitic doubling. Transactions of the Philo-
logical Society 88(1). 1–57.
Macaulay, Ronald. 2002. Discourse variation. In Jack K. Chambers, Peter Trudgill & Natalie
Schilling-Estes (eds.), The handbook of language variation and change, 283–306. Malden
& Oxford: Blackwell.
Mannheim, Bruce. 1984. Una nación acorralada. Southern Peruvian Quechua Language planning
and politics in historical perspective. Language in Society 12. 221–309.
Manning, Christopher D. 1992. Romance is so complex. Stanford, CA: Stanford University.
Manning, Christopher D. 2003. Probabilistic syntax. In Bod Rens, Jennifer Hay & Stefanie
Jannedy (eds.), Probabilistic linguistics, 289–341. Cambridge, MA.: The MIT Press.
Martinet, André. 1960. Éléments de Linguistique Générale. Paris: Armand Colin.
Matras, Yaron. 1998. Utterance modiﬁers and universals of grammatical borrowing. Linguistics
36(1). 281–331.
Matras, Yaron. 2013. Languages in contact in a world marked by change and mobility. Revue
française de linguistique appliquée XVIII( 2). 7–13.
Mayer, Elisabeth. 2003. Clitic doubling in Limeño. A case study in LFG, Australian National Uni-
versity MLing thesis.
Mayer, Elisabeth. 2006. Optional direct object clitic doubling in Limeño Spanish. In Miriam Butt
& Tracy Holloway King (eds.), Proceedings of the LFG06 Conference, 310–327. Stanford,
CA: CSLI.
Mayer, Elisabeth. 2008. Clitics on the move: From Dependent Marking to Split Marking. In
Miriam Butt & Tracy Holloway King (eds.), Proceedings of the LFG08 Conference, 352–
372: Stanford, CA: CSLI.
254 References
Mayer, Elisabeth. 2010. Syntactic variation of object arguments in Limeño Spanish contact
varieties, Australian National University PhD dissertation.
Mayer, Elisabeth. 2013. Floating agreement in American Spanish leísta dialects. Australian
Journal of Linguistics 33(2). 152–169.
Mayer, Elisabeth & Manuel Delicado Cantero. 2015. Continuity and contact-induced change in
Peruvian Spanish contact varieties: The case of prepositional diﬀerential object marking.
In Melvin González-Rivera & Sandro Sessarego (eds.), New perspectives on hispanic
contact linguistics in the Americas (Language and Society in the Hispanic World), 99–
120. Madrid & Frankfurt am Main: Vervuert Iberoamericana.
Mayer, Elisabeth & Liliana Sánchez. 2017a. Variability at the interfaces: Clitics in bilingual and
monolingual Andean Spanish. International Journal of Bilingual Education and Bilingualism
(Special Issue). accepted.
Mayer, Elisabeth & Liliana Sánchez. 2016. Object agreement marking and information structure
in monolingual and bilingual Andean Spanish. Revista Española de Lingüística Aplicada
29:2, 544–581. doi 10.1075/resla.29.2.07may
Mayer, Elisabeth & Liliana Sánchez. 2017b. Clitics and argument marking in Shipibo Spanish
and Ashaninka-Spanish Bilingual speech. In Stephen Fafulas (ed.), Amazonian Spanish:
language contact and evolution. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. ms.
Mayer, Elisabeth & Liliana Sánchez. 2017c. Feature selection in clitic expression in Amazonian
Spanish. In Ana María Escobar & Roberto Zariquiey (ed.), Special volume of Amazonian
Spanish. ms.
McCarthy, Corrine. 2008. Morphological availabiity in the comprehension of agreement: An
argument for representation over computation. Second Language Research 24(4). 459–
486.
Meklenborg Salvesen, Christine & Hans Peter Helland (eds.). 2013. Challenging clitics.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Melis, Chantal. 1995. El objeto directo personal en el Cantar del Mío Cid: estudio sintáctico-
pragmático. In Carmen Pensado (ed.), El complemento directo preposicional, 133–163.
Madrid: Visor.
Merma Molina, Gladys. 2004. Lenguas en contacto: peculiaridades del español andino peruano.
Tres casos de interferencia morfosintáctica. Estudios de Lingüística Univerisdad de Alicante
(ELUA) 18. 191–211.
Miller, Philip & Paola Monachesi. 2003. Les pronoms clitiques dans les langues romanes. In
Danièle Godard (ed.), Les langues romanes, problèmes de la phrase simple. Paris: CNRS
éditions.
Miller, Philip H. 1992. Clitics and constituents in phrase structure grammar. Université de
Bruxelles Outstanding dissertations in linguistics.
Mohanan, Tara. 1994. Argument structure in Hindi. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Monachesi, Paola. 1999. A lexical approach to UItlian cliticization. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Monachesi, Paola. 2005. The verbal complex in Romance: A case study in grammatical inter-
faces. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Montrul, Silvina, Rebecca Foote, Silvia Perpiñán, Dan Thornhill & Susana Vidal. 2006. Full
access and age eﬀects in adult bilingualism: An investigation of Spanish accusative clitics
and word order. In Nuria Sagarra & Almeida Jacqueline Toribio (eds.), Selected Pro-
ceedings of the 9th Hispanic Linguistic Symposium, 217–228. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla
Proceedings Project.
References 255
Montrul, Silvina A. 2006. Incomplete acquisition as a feature of bilingual and L2 grammars. In
Roumyana Slabakova, Silvina A. Montrul & Philippe Prévost (eds.), Inquiries in linguistic
development. In honour of Lydia White, 335–361. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Mufwene, Salikoko S. 2002. Competition and selection in language evolution. Selection 3(1).
45–56.
Mufwene, Salikoko S. 2001. The ecology of language evolution. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Muysken, Pieter. 1984. The Spanish that Quechua speakers learn: L2 learning as norm-
governed behaviour. In Roger W Andersen (ed.), Second languages: A crosslinguistic
perspective, 101–119. Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Muysken, Pieter. 1989. Media Lengua and linguistic theory. Canadian Journal of Linguistics 33(4).
409–422.
Muysken, Pieter. 2013. Language contact outcomes as the result of bilingual optimization
strategies. Bilingualism 16(4). 709.
Myers, Sarah K. 1973. Language shift among migrants to Lima, Peru. Chicago: University of
Chicago, Department of Geography.
Naess, Åshild. 2004. What markedness marks: the markedness problem with direct objects.
Lingua 114. 1186–1212.
Nevins, Andrew. 2007. The representation of third person and its consequences for person-case
eﬀects. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 25. 273–313.
Nevis, Joel A., Brian D. Joseph, Dieter Wanner & Arnold Zwicky. 1994. Clitics: A comprehensive
bibliography 1892–1991. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Nichols, Johanna. 1986. Head-marking and dependent-marking grammar. Language 62(1). 56–
119.
Nikolaeva, Irina. 1999. Object agreement, grammatical relations, and information structure.
Studies in Language 23. 331–376.
Nikolaeva, Irina. 2001. Secondary topic as a relation in information structure. Linguistics 39. 1–
49.
Niño Murcia, Mercedes. 1995. The gerund in the Spanish of the North-Andean region. In
Carmen Silva-Corvalan (ed.), Spanish in four continents: Studies in language contact and
bilingualism, 83–100. Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press.
O’Connor, Rob. 2002. Clitics and phrasal aﬃxation in constructive morphology. In Miriam Butt
& Tracy Holloway King (eds.), Proceedings of the LFG02 Conference, 315–332. Stanford,
CA: CSLI.
O’Connor, Rob. 2004. Information structure in lexical-functional grammar. The discourse-
prosody correspondence in English and Serbo-Croation. University of Manchester PhD
dissertation.
O’Rourke, Erin. 2004. Peak placement in two regional varieties of Peruvian Spanish intonation.
In Julie Auger, J. Clancy Clements & Barbara Vance (eds.), Contemporary approaches to
Romance linguistics. Selected Papers from the 33rd Linguistic Symposium on Romance
Languages (LSRL). Bloomington, Indiana, April 2003 (Amsterdam Studies in the Theory
and History of Linguistic Science), 321–341. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
O’Rourke, Erin. 2005. Intonation and language contact: A case study of two varieties of Peruvian
Spanish. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign PhD dissertation.
O’Rourke, Erin. 2009. Phonetics and phonology of Cuzco Quechua declarative intonation: an
instrumental analysis. Journal of the International Phonetic Association 39(3). 291–312.
256 References
Ordóñez, Francisco. 2002. Some clitic combinations in the syntax. Catalan Journal of Linguistics
1. 201–224.
Ordóñez, Francisco. 2012. Clitics in Spanish. In J. Hualde, A. Olarrea & Erin O’Rouke (eds.),
Handbook of hispanic linguistics, 423–453. Cambridge: Blackwell.
Ordóñez, Francisco & Lori Repetti. 2006. Stressed enclitics. In Jean Pierre Montreuil (ed.),
New analyses in romance linguistics: Phonetics, phonology and dialectology, 167–181.
Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Ormazabal, Javier & Juan Romero. 1998. On the syntactic nature of the me-lui and the person-
case constraint. Anuario del Seminario Julio de Urquijo XXXII(2). 415–434.
Ormazabal, Javier & Juan Romero. 2002. Agreement restrictions. Ms. University of the Basque
Country and University of Alcalá de Henares.
Ormazabal, Javier & Juan Romero. 2004. Clitics and agreement. Paper presented at Journées
d’Études Linguistiques 2004 (JEL’ 2004), 5–7 Mai, Nantes, France.
Ormazabal, Javier & Juan Romero. 2007. The Object Agreement Constraint. Natural Language
and Linguistic Theory 25. 315–347.
Ormazabal, Javier & Juan Romero. 2010. Object clitics and agreement. Ms. University of the
Basque Country/HiTT & University de Extremadura/HiTT.
Ormazabal, Javier & Juan Romero. 2013. Object clitics, agreement and dialectal variation. Probus
25. 301–344.
Otero, Carlos. 1972. Accetable ungrammatical sentences in Spanish. Linguistic Inquiry 2. 233–
242.
Palacios, Alcaine Azucena. 1998. Santacruz Pachacuti y la falsa pronominalización del español
andino. Lexis 22(2). 119–146.
Palacios, Alcaine Azucena. 2000. El sistema pronominal del español Paraguayo: un caso de
contacto de lenguas. In Julio Calvo Pérez (ed.), Teoría y práctica de contacto: El español
de América en el candelero, 123–143. Madrid: Iberoramericana.
Palacios, Alcaine Azucena. 2002. Leísmo y loísmo en el español ecuatoriano: el sistema prono-
minal del español andino. Homenaje al Dr. Cisneros. 389–408.
Palacios, Alcaine Azucena. 2005. Aspectos teóricos y metodológicos del contacto de lenguas:
El sistema pronominal del español en áreas de contacto con lenguas amerindias. In
Volker Noll, Klaus Zimmermann & Ingrid Neumann-Holzschuh (eds.), El Español en
América: aspectos teóricos, particularidades, contactos (Lengua y Sociedad en el Mundo
Hispánico/Language and Society in the Hispanic World), 63–94. Frankfurt & Madrid:
Vervuert Iberoamericana.
Palacios, Alcaine Azucena. 2013. Contact-induced change and internal evolution. In Isabelle
Léglise & Claudine Chamoreau (eds.), The interplay of variation and change in contact
settings, 165–198. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Paredes, Liliana. 1996. The Spanish continuum in Peruvian bilingual speakers. A case study of
verbal clitics. University of Southern California PhD dissertation.
Payne, Doris & Thomas E. Payne. 1990. Yagua. In Derbyshire D. C. & Geoﬀrey K. Pullum (eds.),
Handbook of Amazonian languages, 249–474. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Payne, Thomas E. 1997. Describing morphosyntax: A guide for ﬁeld linguists. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Pensado, Carmen. 1995. El complemento directo preposicional. Madrid: Visor Libros.
Pensalﬁni, Rob. 1999. The rise of case suﬃxes as discourse markers in Jingulu – a case study
of innovation in an obsolescent language Australian Journal of Linguistics 19(2). 225–240.
Pérez, Jorge. 1997. The psycholinguistic basis of Andean Spanish morpho-syntax. Lima: Pontifícia
Universidad Católica de Perú.
References 257
Pérez, Jorge. 2000. Distribución y estructura interna de los clíticos del español: análisis de
cuatro fenómenos desde la Morfología Distribuida. Lexis 24(2). 259–281.
Perlmutter, David M. 1971. Deep and surface structure constraints in syntax.: Transatlantic
Series in Linguistics. New York: Holt, Rinehart & Winston.
Pescarini, Diego. 2005. Clitic clusters and morphological repairs. Evidence from Italian, Spanish
and Barceloní. Ms.
Pescarini, Diego. 2007. Elsewhere in Romance: Counter-levelling, syncretism, and clitic clusters.
Ms.
Pesetsky, David. 1987. Wh-in situ: Movement and unselective binding. In E. J. Reulard & Alice
ter Meulen (eds.), The representation of (in)deﬁniteness. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
Pollard, Carl & Ivan Sag. 1994. Head-driven phrase structure grammar. Chicago & Stanford:
University of Chicago Press & CSLI.
Pozzi-Escot, Inés. 1972. El castellano en el Perú: norma culta nacional versus norma culta
regional. In Alberto Escobar (ed.), El reto del multilingüismo en el Perú, 125–142. Lima:
Instituto de Estudios Peruanos.
Pozzi-Escot, Inés. 1975. Norma culta y normas regionales del castellano en relación con la
enseñanza. In R. Ávalos de Matos & R. Ravines (eds.), Lingüística e indigenismo moderno
en América. Trabajos presentados al XXXIX Congreso Internacional de Americanistas, 321–
330. Lima: Instituto de Estudios Peruanos.
Prince, Alan & Paul Smolensky. 1993. Optimality theory: Constraint interaction in generative
grammar. New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University, Center for Cognitive Science.
Quilis, Antonio, Margarita Cantarero, María José Albalá & Guerra. Rafael (eds.). 1985. Los pro-
nombres le, le, lo y sus plurales en la lengua española hablada en Madrid. Madrid: CSIC.
Real Academia Española. 1985. Esbozo de una Nueva Gramática de la Lengua Española.
Madrid: Espasa-Calpe.
Reed, Judy & David L. Payne. 1986. Asheninka (Campa) pronominals. In Ursula Wiesemann
(ed.), Pronominal systems, 323–331. Tübingen: Günther Narr Verlag.
Ritter, Elizabeth & Sara Thomas Rosen. 2001. The interpretive value of object splits. Language
Sciences 23. 425–451.
Rivarola, José Luís. 1992. Aproximación histórica al Español del Perú. In Alonso C. Hernández
(ed.), Historia y presente del español de América, 697–717: Junta de Castilla y León.
Rivero, María-Luisa. 1975. Referential properties of Spanish noun phrases. Language 51. 32–
48.
Rivero, María-Luisa. 1986. Parameters in the typology of clitics in Romance and Old Spanish.
Language 62. 774–807.
Roca, Ana & John B. Jensen (eds.). 1996. Spanish in contact. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
Rodriguez de Montes, María Luisa. 1981. Muestra de Literatura Oral en Leticia, Amazonas.
Bogotá: Instituto Caro y Cuervo.
Rojas, Elena. 1980. Aspectos del habla en San Miguel de Tucumán. Tucumán: Universidad
Nacional de Tucumán.
Rudin, Catherine. 1997. Agr-O and Bulgarian pronominal clitics. In M. Lindseth & Steven Franks
(eds.), Formal approaches to Slavic Linguistics: The Indiana meeting 1996, 224–252. Ann
Arbor: Michigan Slavic Publications.
Saltarelli, Mario. 1988. Basque. London: Croom Helm.
Sánchez, Liliana. 2003. Quechua-Spanish Bilingualism: Interference and Convergence in Func-
tional Categories. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
258 References
Sánchez, Liliana. 2004. Functional convergence in the tense, evidentiality and aspectual
systems of Quechua Spanish bilinguals. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition 7(2). 147–
162.
Sánchez, Liliana. 2005. Clitic-doubling and the checking of focus. Ms. Rutgers University.
Sánchez, Liliana. 2006. Kechwa and Spanish bilignual grammars: Testing hypotheses on func-
tional interference and convergence. The International Journal of Bilingual Education and
Bilingualism 9(5). 535–556.
Sánchez, Liliana. 2010. The morphology and syntax of topic and focus: Minimalist inquiries in
the Quechua periphery. Oxford: John Benjamins.
Sánchez, Liliana. 2012. Convergence in syntax/morphology mapping strategies: evidence from
Quechua-Spanish code mixing. Lingua 122(5). 511–528.
Sánchez, Liliana & Pablo Zdrojewski. 2013. Restricciones semánticas y pragmáticas al doblado
de clíticos en el español de Buenos Aires y de Lima. Lingüística 29(2). 271–320.
Sapir, Edward. 1921. Language: An introduction to the study of speech. New York: Harcourt
Brace.
Schwarze, Christoph. 2001. Representation and variation: On the development of romance
auxiliary syntax. In Miriam Butt & Tracy Hollaway King (eds.), Time over matter: Diachronic
perspectives on morphosyntax (Studies in Constraint -Based Lexicalism), 143–172. Stanford:
CSLI
Schwenter, Scott A. 2006. Null objects acros South America. In Carol Klee & Timothy L. Face
(eds.), Proceedings of the 8th Hispanic Linguistics Symposium, 23–26. Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Proceedings Project.
Schwenter, Scott A. & Asela Reig Alamillo. 2007. Null object and neuter lo: A cross-dialectal
variationist analysis. In Jonathan Holmquist & et al. (eds.), Selected Proceedings of the
Third Workshop on Spanish Sociolinguistics, 113–121. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Proceed-
ings Project.
Sharma, Devyani. 2003. Discourse clitics and constructive morphology in Hindi. In Miriam Butt
& Tracy Holloway King (eds.), Nominals: inside and out. Stanford, CA: CSLI
Silva-Corvalan, Carmen (ed.) 1995. Spanish in four continents: Studies in language contact and
bilingualism. (Georgetown Studies in Romance Linguistics). Washington, D.C.: Georgetown
University Press.
Silva-Corvalán, Carmen. 1989. Sociolingüística: teoría y análisis. Madrid: Alhambra.
Silva-Corvalán, Carmen. 2001. Sociolingüistica y pragmática del español. Georgetown Studies
in Spanish Linguistics. Washington, D.C.: Georgetown University Press.
Silverstein, Michael. 1976. Hierarchy of features and ergativity. In Robert M.W. Dixon (ed.),
Grammatical categories in Australian Languages, 112–171. Canberra: Australian Institute
of Aboriginal Studies.
Simpson, Jane. 1991. Warlpiri Morpho-Syntax: A lexicalist approach. Dordrecht, Boston: Kluwer
Academic.
Sinnemäki, Kaius. 2008. Complexity trade-oﬀs in core argument marking. In Matti Miestamo,
Kaius Sinnmäki & Fred Karlsson (eds.), Language complexity, 67–68. Amsterdam &
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Spaulding, Robert K. 1962. How Spanish grew. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Spencer, Andrew & Ana R. Luís. 2012. Clitics. An introduction. Cambridge Textbooks in Linguistics.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Stratford, Billie Dale. 1989. Structure and use of Altiplano Spanish. University of Florida PhD
dissertation.
References 259
Suárez, Victor. 1979. El español que se habla en Yucatán. Mérida: Universidad de Yucatán.
Suñer, Margarita. 1988. The role of agreement in clitic-doubled constructions. Natural Language
& Linguistic Theory 6(3). 391–434.
Suñer, Margarita. 1989. Dialectal variation and clitic-doubled direct objects. In Carl Kirschner &
Janet Ann Decesaris (eds.), Studies in Romance Linguistics. Selected Papers from the 27th
Linguistic Symposium on Romance Languages (LSRL XVII) (Amsterdam Studies in the
Theory and History of Linguistic Science), 377–395. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Suñer, Margarita & María Yepéz. 1988. Null deﬁnite objects in Quiteño. Linguistic Inquiry 19.
511–519.
Symeonidis, Haralambos. 2005. Aspectos sintácticos en el habla popular románica de la zona
guaranitica. In Volker Noll, Klaus Zimmermann & Ingrid Neumann-Holzschuh (eds.), El
español en América: aspectos teóricos, particularidades, contactos (Lengua y Sociedad
en el Mundo Hispanico/Language and Society in the Hispanic World), 235–248. Frankfurt
& Madrid: Vervuert Iberoamericana.
Thomason, Sarah Grey & Terrence Kaufman. 1998. Language contact, creolization, and genetic
linguistics. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Ticio, Emma. 2005. Locality and anti-locality in Spanish DPs. Syntax 8(3). 229–286.
Toivonen, Ida. 2003. Non-projecting words. A case study of Swedish verbal particle. Drodrecht:
Kluwer.
Torrego, Esther. 1987. On empty categories in nominals. Ms. Boston: University of Massachusetts.
Torrego, Esther. 1993. On the nature of clitic doubling. In Héctor Campos & Paula Kempchinsky
(eds.), Evolution and revolution in linguistic theory. Essays in honor of Carlos Otero, 299–
418. Washington D.C.: Georgetown University Press.
Torrego, Esther. 1998. The dependencies of objects. Linguistic Inquiry Monographs. Cambridge,
MA: The MIT Press.
Torrego, Esther. 1999. El complemento directo preposicional. In Ignacio Bosque & Violeta
Demonte (eds.), Grámatica descriptiva de la lengua española, 1779–1806. Madrid: Espasa
Calpe.
Torres Cacoullos, Rena. 2002. Le: from pronoun to verbal intensiﬁer. Linguistics 40(2). 285–
318.
Uriagereka, Juan. 1995. Aspects of the syntax of clitic placement in Western Romance. Linguistic
Inquiry 26. 79–123.
Usher de Herreros, Beatriz. 1976. Castellano Paraguayo. Notas para una gramática contrastiva
castellano-guaraní. Suplemento Antropológico 11. 29–123.
vam Riemsdijk, Henk (ed.). 1999. Clitics in the languages of Europe. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Van Coetsem, Frans. 1995. Outlining a model of the transmission phenomenon in language
contact. Leuvense bijdragen 84(1). 63–85.
Vargas Llosa, Mario. 2003. Wittgenstein en Máncora. In Caretas – El País.
Vasconcellos Lopes, Ruth & Sonia Cyrino. 2005. Evidence for a cue-based theory of language
change and language acquisition. The null object in Brazilian Portuguese. In Twan Geerts,
Ivo van Ginneken & Haike Jacobs (eds.), Romance languages and linguistic theory 2003.
Selected Papers from ‘Going Romance’ 2003, Nijmegen, 20–22 November (Amsterdam
Studies in the Theory and History of Linguistic Science), 343–359. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Vincent, Nigel. 2001. LFG as a model of syntactic change. In Miriam Butt & Tracy Hollaway King
(eds.), Time over matter: diachronic perspectives on morphosyntax. (Studies in Constraint-
Based Lexicalism), 1–42. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
260 References
von Heusinger, Klaus. 2002. Speciﬁcity and deﬁniteness in sentence and discourse structure.
Journal of Semantics 19(3). 245–275.
von Heusinger, Klaus. 2007. Referentially anchored indeﬁnites. In Ileana Comorovski & Klaus
von Heusinger (eds.), Existence: Semantics and syntax, 273–292. Dordrecht: Springer.
von Heusinger, Klaus & Georg A. Kaiser. 2005. The evolution of diﬀerential object marking in
Spanish. In Klaus von Heusinger, Georg Kaiser & Elisabeth Stark (eds.), Proceedings of
the workshop “Speciﬁcity and the Evolution /Emergence of Nominal Determination Systems
in Romance.” 33–70. Universität Konstanz: Arbeitspapier 119: Fachbereich Sprachwissen-
schaft.
von Heusinger, Klaus & Georg Kaiser. 2007. Diﬀerential object marking and the lexical semantics
of verbs in Spansish. In Georg Kaiser & Manuel Leonetti (eds.), Proceedings of the workshop
“Deﬁniteness, speciﬁcty and animacy in Ibero-Romance languages” Universität Konstanz,
Arbeitspapier 122: Fachbereich Sprachwissenschaft.
von Heusinger, Klaus & Edgar Onea. 2008. Triggering and blocking eﬀects in the diachronic
development of DOM in Romanian. Probus 20. 67–110.
Wanner, Dieter. 1974. The evolution of Romance clitic order. In Joseph R. Cambell, Mary Clayton
& Mark S. Goldin (eds.), Linguistic studies in Romance languages, 158–177. Washington,
D.C.: Georgetown University Press.
Wanner, Dieter. 1997. Dialect variation as a consequence of standardization. In Jenny Cheshire
& Dieter Stein (eds.), Taming the vernacular: From dialect to written standard language,
218–232. London & New York: Longman.
Weber, David. 1989. A grammar of Huallaga (Huánuco) Quechua. vol. 112: University of
California Publications in Linguistics. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Weber, David. 1993. The binding properties of Quechua suﬃxes: University of North Dakota:
Work papers of the Summer Institute of Linguistics.
Wechsler, Stephen & Larisa Zlatic. 2003. The many faces of agreement. Stanford Monographs
in Linguistics. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Wescoat, Michael. 2009. Udi person markers and lexical integrity. In Miriam Butt & Tracy
Holloway King (eds.), Proceedings of LFG09 Conference, 604–622. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Wierzbicka, Anna. 1981. Case marking and human nature. Australian Journal of Linguistics 1.
43–80.
Wölck, Wolfgang. 1973. Attitudes towards Spanish and Quechua in bilingual Peru. In Roger W.
Shuy & Ralph W. Fasold (eds.), Language attitudes: Current trends and prospects, 129–
147. Washington.
Wurm, Stephen A. 1976. Accusative marking in Duudidjawu (Waga-Waga). In Robert M. W. Dixon
(ed.) Grammatical categories in Australian languages, 106–111. Canberra: Australian
Institute of Aboriginal Studies.
Yépez, María. 1986. Direct object clitics in Quiteño, Cornell University M.A. thesis.
Ykaza Tigerino, Julio. 1980. Situación y tendencias actuales del español en Nicaragua. Managua:
Ediciones Lengua.
Zaenen, Annie, Joan Maling & Höskuldur Thráinsson. 1985. Case and grammatical functions:
The Icelandic passive. Natural Language & Linguistic Theory 3(4). 441–483.
Zagona, Karen. 1988. Verb phrase syntax: A parametric study of English and Spanish. Studies
in Natural Language and Linguistic Theory. Dordrecht, Boston & London: Kluwer Academic
Publishers.
Zagona, Karen. 2002. The syntax of Spanish. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
References 261
Zdrojewski, Pablo & Liliana Sánchez. 2014. Variation in accusative clitic doubling across three
Spanish dialects. Lingua 15. 162–176.
Zubizarreta, María Luisa. 1985. Morphophonology and morphosyntax: The case of Romance
causatives. Linguistic Inquiry 16. 247–289.
Zubizarreta, María Luisa. 1998. Prosody, focus and word order. Linguistic Inquiry Monograph
33. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
Zubizarreta, María Luisa. 1999. Word order in Spanish and the nature of nominative case. In
Kyle Johnson & Ian Roberts (eds.), Beyond principles and parameters. Essays in memory of
Osvaldo Jaeggli (Studies in Natural Language and Linguistic Theory), 223–251. Dordrecht:
Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Zulaika, Iker. 2007. Demonstrative pronouns in Spanish. The Ohio State University PhD
dissertation.
Zwicky, Arnold. 1977. On clitics. Bloomington. IN: Indiana University Linguistics Club.
Zwicky, Arnold. 1985. Clitics and particles. Language 61. 283–305.
Zwicky, Arnold & Geoﬀrey K. Pullum. 1983. Cliticization vs. inﬂection: English n’t. Language
Sciences 59. 502–513.
262 References
Index
accusative 2, also see case, clitic doubling,
diﬀerential object marking
– clitics 2, 6, 8, 23, 33–39, 52, 61, 110, 164
– neuter 8, 37–44, 91, 113, 145, 148, 152–
154, 174, 176, 181, 238, 240
aﬀectedness 57, 122, 135, 215–216, 221, 223,
see also animacy
– individuation 221, 222
– possessor 229
aﬃx 25–27, 30, 81, 188, 192, 199
– allomorphy 29, 33
– anaphoric agreement 33
– inﬂectional 25, 27, 30, 110
– phrasal 29, 30
– stem-level 29–30, 33
agreement 2, see also agreement marker
– anaphoric 56, 71, 85, 107– 108, 113, 136,
138, 141–146, 162–163, 184, 241
– crossreferencing 2–3, 66, 226
– ﬂoating 51, 141, 144, 164, 165, 166, 186,
227 ftn 30, 236
– grammatical 71, 84–89, 107–113, 134,
136, 141–146, 153, 158, 184, 206, 238–
240
– head-marking 1, 2, 6, 7, 9, 23, 58, 59, 61,
66, 92, 99, 125, 128, 129, 133, 140, 143,
206, 212, 216, 217, 218, 230, 239
– primary agreement 63, 125
– secondary agreement 63, 125, 127, 129,
131, 136
– subject-verb 125, 196, 207
alignment constraints 31, 44, 48, 51, 52–54
– default alignment 120, 132, 139
– grammatical alignment 57, 120
– harmonic alignment 119
animacy 73, see also aﬀectedness, clitic
doubling, diﬀerential object marking,
semantic features, topicality
– agency/disambiguation 219
– animacy hierarchy 73, 196, 199
– animacy marking 10, 51, 61, 70–71, 74–75,
95, 101–102, 123, 154, 186, 189, 195
– animacy scale 5, 51, 68, 72–73, 95
– person 92, 100
argument, see also direct and indirect
object, primary object, diﬀerential
object marking, double object
constructions
– internal 47, 49, 55–56, 60, 92, 124, 208,
211, 213, 225, 228, 233
– external 55, 99, 124, 211, 213
– theta-role bearing 33, 85, 218
a-(rgument) structure 22, 48, 55, 86, 101,
120, 153, 211– 213, 215–216, 225–226
attribute value matrix 23, 80
case 9, 34, 39, see also diﬀerential object
marking, Person-Case Constraint
– accusative 2, 3, 9, 25, 36, 58–59, 61–62,
101–102, 185 ftn 35, 202, 204
– alternation 221–224, 226–227, 232
– dative 2, 7, 9, 36, 59–62, 82, 87, 93, 101–
102, 215, 217, 231–232, 238
– case hierarchy 46, 120
– case system 100–102, 109, 112–115, 142–
143, 199, 219, 225, 236, 238 ftn 1, 241
– dependent-marking 1,2, 6, 58, 210
– erosion 166, 168, 214
– ethical dative 233–236
– gender 37, 51
– grammatical relations 57–59, 61, 80, 93,
211, 217
– locative (adpositional marking) 9, 59, 61,
71–72, 94, 224
– optional casemarking 3, 222
– structural case 28, 50, 53, 57–58, 104,
107, 219–220
– semantic case 50, 57, 59, 62, 107, 221
– syncretism 29, 34, 36, 37, 51, 59, 61–62,
66, 71–72, 82–83, 92, 102–103, 129,
166, 229, 236
– telicity/boundedness 57, 224
clitic, see also pronoun
– agreement marker 26, 33, 39, 51, 78, 83,
85, 89, 92, 100, 111, 113, 131, 145
– anaphoric 33–34, 40, 84–85, 87, 127, 140,
143, 235, 238
– argument clitic 40–41, 49 and ftn 30
– clitichood 26, 30–31, 33, 46
– deictic element 44
– enclitics 1, 26, 29, 31, 33, 46, 178, 195
– features 1, 2, 25, 34, 36–40, 51–52
– feature uniﬁcation 91
– objective marker (non-agreeing/
featureless) 100, 207, 239
– position 26, 46, 167
– proclitics 1, 26, 29–31, 33, 46 and ftn 30,
81, 178 ftn 27, 195
– special clitics 26–27 and ftn2, 28, 30
– spurious se 28, 36, 37 ftn 15, 46–49, 51–
52, 54–55, 88, 137, 164, 166–167, 171,
235
– topicality/transitivity marker 89, 131, 206,
235
– true clitics 43, 140
– Wackernagel clitics 28
clitic doubling 2, see also diﬀerential object
marking, information structure, leísmo,
loísmo, laísmo
– accusative 3, 6, 216
– dative/accusative alternation 185
– direct object 2, 6, 23–24, 62, 64, 67, 79,
82, 89–90, 99, 139, 155–156, 204,
218
– indirect object 62, 70, 78–79, 82, 139–
140, 159, 183, 228, 229
– liberal direct object clitic doubling 19, 64,
90, 140, 145, 157, 184
– optionality of direct object doubling 64–
65, 66–67, 89 ftn 31, 91, 138, 239
– referential categories 23, 68, 73, 77
– topicalization 2, 5
clitic structures, see also clitic doubling,
diﬀerential object marking, information
structure
– clitic climbing 26, 30 ftn 8, 31, 81
– clitic cluster 28, 31, 33, 38, 44–47, 47 ftn
31, 48 ftn 33, 87, 151, 164, 169, 172,
185–186, 214, 227 and ftn 30, 228, 233,
236, see also spurious se
– clitic placement 23, 27, 30 ftn 8, 43, 47,
122–123
clitic systems 17, 28
– etymological system 8
– hybrid/split/new/variable 3, 139, 184,
239
– scalar system 143, 184, 188
– loísmo, leísmo, laísmo 8–9, 39, 63–64,
101, 113, 142, 152, 156, 161, 169 ftn 21,
185
c-(onstituent)-structure 22–23, 68, 80–83,
87–88, 130–131, 134, 227
convergence 17–19, 144–145, 187–188,
190, 193, 195, 199, 217, 224, 233, 235,
241
determiner cliticization 39, 41, 43, 56, 151
ftn 10, 152
diﬀerential object marking 5–9, 11, 58, 61,
73, 76, 93–95, 101 see also accusative,
argument, case, clitic doubling,
information structure
– animacy, deﬁniteness and speciﬁcity 4,
70, 73
– extended DOM 106–107, 117
– evolution of DOM and clitic doubling 99,
108
– information structure 119–120
– personal a 60, 72
– prepositional accusative 71
– speciﬁcity 4, 70
– topicality 73, 104
– two-dimensional scale 5, 68
– constraining equation 90
discourse structure 2, 28, 113, 141, see also
information-structure
dislocation 79, see also information
structure, topicality
– left dislocation 2, 123–124, 134, 217
– preposing 2 and ftn 1, 57, 217
– right dislocation 2, 67
double actant marking 99, 102, 104, 110,
122, 126, 142, 199, 205, 207, 212, 234
double object constructions 37, 41 49 ftn 37,
54 ftn 43, 86, 199, 225–228
Economy Principle/Economy of
Expression 62, 84
Extended Coherence Condition 130
264 Index
Feature Pool 16–19
f-(unctional) structure 22–23, 47, 80–85,
87–89, 120, 130–134, 147, 213, 215–
216, 226–227
Functional Uniqueness 91, 138, 147
grammatical functions 66, 80, 86, 119–120,
124–125, 219, 226
– core grammatical function 66, 86, 92,
119–120, 139
– non-core grammatical function 86
grammaticalization 9 ftn 55, 85, 117, 139–
140, 164, 237–238, 240, see also
language change
– clitics 40, 99, 110–111, 134, 153, 210
– diﬀerential object marking 73, 99, 119,
140, 210
– grammaticized discourse function 130
– grammaticized topicality marker 208
– information structure role 145, 166, 173
information structure roles, see also case,
diﬀerential object marking, discourse
structure, topicality
– aboutness topic 123, 179
– focus 57, 86, 102, 119, 120–122, 124–128,
130, 138–139, 141, 189
– external topic 122–123, 138, 147, 44
– ﬂoating topic 181
– hanging topic 148
– internal topic 122–123 and ftn 25
– topic 57, 86, 113, 117–118, 120–121,
123,125–131, 133, 136–138, 141, 147,
176, 194 ftn 9
– primary topic 102, 110, 115, 119–120, 122,
126, 128, 130, 132, 135, 145, 147, 148,
166, 205
– secondary topic 21, 40, 71, 92–93, 99–
113, 115–126, 130–143, 145–147,
see also invariant lo
– topic-worthiness 46 ftn 29, 99, 199, 121,
126, 135, 166–167, 207
– topichood 119, 121
invariant le 10 ftn8, 11, 158, 159, 164
invariant lo 10 ftn 8, 11, 18, 39, 60, 89, 108–
111, 140–152, 160, 184–185, 219, 238
– ethical dative 152
– false pronominalization 149–150, 206,
224
– invariant lo doubling 145, 149, 170, 174
– anaphoric topic marker 40–41, 110–111
– referential/non-referential lo 202
– secondary topic 126, 147, 150, 157, 164,
184, 185, 187, 195, 200, 235, 240
– topicality/transitivity/aspectual
marker 195, 200, 206, 224, 235, 240
Kayne’s Generalization 6, 62, 68 ftn 10, 74,
78, 92, 95, 138, 157, 239
language acquisition 11
– adult second language 18
– acquisition hierarchy 112
– bilingual 17, 140
– contact 11, 18
– naturalistic 94 ftn 4
language change 16–18, 20–24, 66, 110,
113, 141, 150, 169, 187–188, 236, 238,
240–241
– gradualness 19
Lexical-Functional Grammar 20–21, 22–23,
26, 30, 80
Lexical Integrity Principle 28, 30, 80–81, 84
Lexicon 22, 80–81, 83–85
– lexical speciﬁcation 83
markedness constraints 48, 51, 55, 166
Morphological Blocking Principle 64, 81,
and ftn 23, 90–91, 138–139
object, see also arguments, information-
structure
object alternation 23–24, 97, 225
object/topic drop 136–138, 142, 174–186,
191–192, 206
– primary object 93–94, 99–100, 109–110,
116–120, 125, 132, 136, 156, 166–168,
185, 208–219, 225–229, 236, 240–241
– secondary object 10–11, 93, 100, 119–120,
134, 164, 166, 208–214, 225–226, 228–
229, 233, 236–237
Object Agreement Constraint 49 ftn 37, 50,
56, 167
Index 265
Person-Case Constraint 36, 44–45, 50–51,
92, 166–167, 236
pragmatic marking 10, 60, 63, 106, 112, 114,
124, 140, 187, 197, 206, 214–215, 231
PRED PRO 85, 89 and ftn 31, 90–91
– optional PRED PRO feature 89, 91
Principle of Completeness and Coher-
ence 84
Principle of nonconﬁgurationality 80
Principle of Semantic Expressivity 84, 88
projection/dependence matrix 43, 81, 1
PRED feature 83
Pronoun (PRO), see also clitic
– reﬂexive pronoun 35–36, 47
– spurious se 28, 36, 37 ftn 15, 46–49, 51–
52, 54–55, 88, 137, 164, 166–167, 171,
235
– theta-role 33, 85,89, 218
referential categories 23, 68, 73
Restricted Argument Parameter 49 ftn 37,
78, 225, 227–228
second language acquisition 1, 13, 18, 66,
112, 140
– bilingual acquisition 17
semantic features 64, 76, see also animacy,
deﬁniteness, person, speciﬁcity, topic-
worthiness
semantic marking 10–11, 60, 237
semantic roles 211–212, see also argument
structure
– grammatical function 219–230
– Lexical Mapping Theory 212–216
– thematic hierarchy 212
subcategorization frame 80, 83, 198, 211
subject, see also double actant marking
– agentivity 122, 124, 127, 130
– case role hierarchy 120
– experiencer subject 58
– external argument 47–48
– grammatical function hierarchy 128
– primary topic 102, 110, 115, 120, 126, 128
– topicality 127
– verbal incorporation 62, 82, 125
syncretism, see also case
– dative/accusative case 37, 129, 208
– dative/accusative/locative 9, 71, 72, 229
topicality 100–103, 129, 184, see also
diﬀerential object marking, information
structure and invariant lo
– clitics as topicality and transitivity
markers 91, 109, 124, 131, 206–208,
235, 240
– grammatical agreement 125, 135, 240
– identiﬁability 59, 71, 77 ftn 20, 92, 129,
131
– object saliency
64, 121, 131
– speciﬁcity 64, 73, 79, 92, 100, 129
– topicality marking hierarchy 103
Uniqueness condition 70, 83, 89
variability 5–11, 237– 240, see also clitics,
clitic systems, diﬀerential object
marking and language acquisition
– bilingual and monolingual 65
– contact induced 200, 202, 229, 237
– cross-dialectal 63–66, 142, 148, 202, 237
– diachronic and synchronic 7, 11, 143
– free variation 21, 238
– inherent 24, 101, 141, 238
– optionality 21
– non-standardized 4, 21, 78–79, 88 ftn 27,
99, 107, 124, 133, 140, 156–157, 185,
235
– individual grammar 19, 21
– innovation 139, 141, 204,
– reanalysis 19, 235, 237
266 Index
