19
Challenging claims: Immigrants in small claims court
TABLE 2.1.
Scheduled regular availability of court interpreters in New York City small claim courts
during the fieldwork period
Brooklyna
Manhattan Queensb
Spanish Tuesdays every other Monday Thursdays
Russian Tuesdays one Thursday per month
Polish Tuesdays one Wednesday per month
Haitian Creole Tuesdays one Wednesday per month
Cantonese/Mandarinc
Tuesdays every other Thursday Mondays
Korean (Tuesdays) Wednesdays
Greek Wednesdays
French two Wednesdays per month
Bengali, Punjabi three Tuesdays per month
Hindi/Urdu (Tuesdays) three Tuesdays per month
Arabic (Tuesdays)
Based on personal observation and information provided by court administrators.
a
For Brooklyn, I included those languages for which an interpreter was present on at least a third of the
dates when I observed (those in parentheses are below 50%). The court also had interpreters for Yiddish and
Hebrew on staff, but the languages are not listed here because I didn’t observe interpreting for them at this
courthouse.
b
I did not observe interpreters in Queens on Mondays or Tuesdays, so the information given for Cantonese/
Mandarin, Bengali, Hindi/Urdu, or Punjabi relies solely on information provided by court officials.
c
Cantonese and Mandarin are grouped together because there was often only one interpreter present who
could translate both varieties (as was the case with Hindi and Urdu).
these cases may be scheduled on any day—that is, there is no expectation that
the interpreter will work on more than one case per session.
The scheduling of interpreter cases makes it possible to estimate the
overall frequency of interpreter use at the three courthouses during the field-
work period. Small claims court is in session four nights a week, Monday
through Thursday. As is evident from Table 2.1, the courts in Brooklyn and
Manhattan designated an average of one in four sessions for interpreting, and
interpreter cases typically amounted to at least half of the cases heard that
evening, often a bit more. Consequently, at both courthouses interpreting
cases constituted between one eighth and one fourth of all cases, or roughly
between 10% and 20%.3
By contrast, the court in Queens had interpreters
available almost every night, so the share of interpreter-mediated cases has
to be estimated higher, between 25% and 50%. This greater demand for inter-
preting in Queens can be seen as a reflection of the greater linguistic diversity
of the borough’s population, fewer than half of whom speak English at home
(see Table 2.2).
The interpreting schedule shown in Table 2.1 reflects the demand at the
three courthouses at the time of the fieldwork, yet it is best understood as
a flexible and evolving guideline rather that a strict schedule.4
There were
days when interpreters were unexpectedly absent, and I also observed that
Speak English or What?
20
interpreter cases were scheduled and heard on irregular dates. In Queens,
some languages were not requested as regularly as the schedule suggests,
while others were requested more frequently, so that interpreting was pro-
vided on additional evenings. For example, Spanish interpreters were pres-
ent not only on Thursdays, as scheduled, but often also on Wednesdays as
well, when they were needed in cases that required two interpreters (e.g., one
party speaking Korean, the other Spanish). Arranging such cases was easier
in Brooklyn, where interpreting for all languages was scheduled on the same
night. The scheduling guidelines seemed to work well in Manhattan, where
there is frequent demand for Spanish and Chinese interpreting, but rarely
for other languages, making regular scheduling for them unnecessary. In ad-
dition to the scheduled languages listed in Table 2.1, I also observed inter-
preting or requests for interpreting for a variety of other languages, namely
Albanian, American Sign Language, Burmese, Cambodian, Farsi, French,
Fukienese, Hebrew, Hungarian, Italian, Japanese, Pashto, Portuguese, Ro-
manian, Serbian, Shanghainese, Slovak, Turkish, Twi, and Yiddish. As dis-
cussed in Chapter 4, interpreters for these languages were mostly freelance
interpreters hired on a per diem basis.
These patterns of interpreter use in small claims court reflect the lin-
guistic diversity of the city and its boroughs. Overall, Spanish is by far the
most frequently requested language for interpreting in small claims court.
All three courts had at least two different Spanish interpreters on duty when-
ever interpreting for Spanish was scheduled. For other languages, there was
rarely more than one interpreter being used on a given court date, only in
exceptional situations if the number of cases was unusually high. Of the
interpreter-mediated proceedings I observed, 40% involved Spanish (74/182),
but this number likely underestimates the actual share of Spanish interpret-
ing overall, because I targeted cases with Russian, Polish, or Haitian Creole
during the second half of my fieldwork.5
Nevertheless, the share of Spanish is
without a doubt smaller than that reported by Berk-Seligson (1990:4) for the
courts where she conducted fieldwork, where it accounted for between 81%
and 96% of all interpreter cases.6
For the other languages, the observed pat-
tern of interpreter demand and availability in the three boroughs clearly cor-
responds to residence patterns. Most litigants bring their cases to court in the
borough where they live, and so languages are requested most commonly in
those boroughs where their speakers tend to be concentrated. Table 2.2 shows
the distribution of linguistic communities across the three boroughs that
were the focus of my research, based on responses about language spoken at
home in the 2000 U.S. Census.
In line with the observed interpreting demand, the Census data show
that, in all three boroughs, Spanish is by far the most frequently spoken lan-
guage other than English (LOTE), and Chinese varieties are spoken by sizable
numbers of speakers as well. In Brooklyn, Russian is particularly prominent,
21
Challenging claims: Immigrants in small claims court
as are Korean and South Asian languages in Queens. However, Table 2.2
also includes languages like Yiddish, Italian, or Tagalog, for which interpret-
ing is not requested frequently, despite the fact that they have large numbers
of speakers. Where such a discrepancy exists, two explanations seem likely:
Either the speakers of a particular language tend to be fluent in English and
choose not to use an interpreter, or they don’t use the court at all. The first
explanation seems likely in the case of well-established immigrant communi-
ties with few newcomers. For example, the few Italian speakers I observed
in court were elderly people who had been living in New York for several
decades. Bilingualism is also likely if English plays a prominent role in the
country of origin, as may be the case with speakers of Hebrew or Tagalog.
The second explanation seems particularly relevant in the case of Yiddish,
which is spoken in Hasidic communities throughout Brooklyn. While Yid-
dish speakers can also be expected to be bilingual (Fader 2007), Hasidic Jews
appeared to use the court very rarely, and only for disputes where the other
party was from a different community.
TABLE 2.2.
Most common languages spoken at home, by borough (2000 U.S. Census), in percent
of total population for language categories representing 1% or more of the population
Brooklyn Manhattan Queens
English 53.3% English 58.1% English 46.4%
Spanish 18.0% Spanish 24.9% Spanish 23.3%
Russian 6.0% Chinese 5.2% Chinese 6.1%
Chinesea
4.8% French 2.2% Indic languagesb
4.5%
Yiddish 3.1% Korean 2.8%
French Creolec
2.7% Italian 2.1%
Italian 2.1% Greek 1.9%
French 1.6% Russian 1.8%
Indic languages 1.5% Tagalog 1.3%
Polish 1.4% French 1.2%
Arabic 1.1% Polish 1.0%
Hebrew 1.1% French Creole 1.0%
Other
Indo-Europeand
1.0%
a
The category “Chinese” subsumes Mandarin, Cantonese, and other varieties.
b
The Census keeps separate categories for Gujarati, Hindi, and Urdu and combines other Indo-European
languages of the Indian subcontinent, such as Bengali, Marathi, and Punjabi, into one category called “Other
Indic Languages.” Non–Indo-European languages of the Indian subcontinent, such as Tamil or Malayalam,
are counted in the category “Other Asian Languages.” “Indic languages” in the table includes Gujarati, Hindi,
Urdu, and the “other Indic languages,” the latter being the Census category among the four that has the
greatest number of speakers.
c
The census category of “French Creole” includes Haitian Creole.
d
The census category “Other Indo-European” includes Albanian and Romanian, as well as Baltic and Celtic
languages.
Speak English or What?
22
In the scheduling and hiring of interpreters, courts presuppose that
litigants speak standard languages that are clearly distinct and identifiable.
With the exception of Chinese, where clerks distinguish between requests
for Cantonese, Mandarin, and other regional varieties, interpreter sched-
uling is not sensitive to regional or nonstandard varieties (e.g., I found no
indication that dialect differences were considered in assigning Arabic in-
terpreters). Consequently, litigants may need to communicate in varieties
that are rather distinct from their own vernacular. Of course this is also true
for speakers of varieties that are perceived as varieties of English, such as
English-lexifier Creoles of the Caribbean, such as Jamaican or Guyanese,
for which interpreting is neither requested nor available, despite likely oc-
currences of miscommunication (Brown-Blake & Chambers 2007). By con-
trast, interpreting for Haitian Creole is now a routine occurrence, although
in the 1970s and 1980s, New York institutions reportedly expected Haitians
to speak French instead (see Laguerre 1984:29), and some Haitian litigants
presented themselves as speakers of French instead of Haitian Creole (see
below).
The categorization of language use according to standard languages
may thus hide considerable differences between the varieties spoken by inter-
preters and litigants, On the other hand, when interpreters and litigants are
members of the same immigrant community, they may speak the same non-
standard variety, even if the court categorizes their language use as belonging
to a particular standardized national language. In one case that I recorded,
two co-claimants spoke a language variety that suggested they had grown
up in the area around Lviv, a territory that belonged to Poland before World
War II but that is now part of the Ukraine.7
They had apparently asked for
“Russian or Polish” interpreting and they received an interpreter who spoke
both languages and who was from the same region.8
While the case was pre-
sented to me by court staff as a “Polish case,” the interpreter took me aside
and warned me in an apologetic tone that the litigants were not speaking
“normal Polish.” However, in line with the court’s categorization, I also clas-
sify the case as involving Polish interpreting for the purposes of surveying
interpreter use. Like some cases with nonnative Spanish speakers, this case
shows how the court (as well as researchers) may knowingly or unknowingly
impose ethnic and linguistic categories that do not reflect the linguistic rep-
ertoire of the individual speakers, but rather result from language ideolo-
gies that impose categories of standard and national languages (cf. Haviland
2003; Conley & O’Barr 2005:153; Blommaert 2009). The impact of such prac-
tices may be lessened when interpreters are recruited from the same commu-
nities as the litigants. However, even then, there may be language ideological
differences between interpreters and litigants, as shown in Chapter 6, in the
discussion of the reactions of Spanish interpreters to English insertions used
by litigants.
23
Challenging claims: Immigrants in small claims court
The LOTE-speaking litigants in the study
This study is based on ethnographic fieldwork and on the analysis of audio-
recorded interpreter-mediated court proceedings. As noted in Chapter 1, my
fieldwork included also interviews with court clerks, arbitrators, and inter-
preters. But with very few exceptions, I was not able to speak with litigants,
because I generally had no opportunities to speak with them before or after
their hearing.9
Consequently, the discussion in this chapter relies on the ob-
servation of court hearings, and my knowledge about the litigants’ back-
ground and life circumstances is limited to information that was presented
in the hearings or could be inferred from them. In the following, I will first
characterize the litigants with regard to their languages before turning to the
disputes in which they were involved.
As shown in Table 2.1, Spanish is the most frequently requested language
in New York small claims court. The Spanish speakers in court were from
a variety of different backgrounds, from the Caribbean, Mexico, or Central
or South America, representing the cultural and dialectal diversity found in
New York City (Zentella 1997b; Otheguy & Zentella 2012). I observed and
recorded Spanish speakers at all three courthouses, but especially in Man-
hattan, where the large majority were immigrants from the Dominican Re-
public, mostly residents of Washington Heights or adjacent neighborhoods.
By contrast, the sample of Spanish-speaking litigants included very few
New Yorkers of Puerto Rican descent, despite the fact that they continue
to constitute the largest Latino community in New York City (Otheguy &
Zentella 2012:6). This finding suggests that most Puerto Rican New York-
ers do not use an interpreter when bringing a case to small claims court
but speak English instead, contrary to the findings of Urciuoli’s research
conducted two decades earlier (see Urciuoli 1996). There is a rich sociolin-
guistic literature on bilingualism and codeswitching among Puerto Ricans
in the greater New York area, dating back to the 1960s (Fishman, Cooper, &
Ma 1971; Poplack 1980; Zentella 1997a). However, Zentella (1997a) detects
signs of language shift toward English among her informants. The finding
that few Puerto Ricans use Spanish in small claims court can be seen as a
further indication of this language shift, or at the least of more widespread
fluency in English.
Of the four languages I targeted for my study, Russian was the second
most frequently requested, in line with the fact that Russian speakers are the
fourth largest linguistic community in New York City, after speakers of Eng-
lish, Spanish, and Chinese (according to both the 2000 and 2010 Censuses).
Most of the Russian speakers were observed at the Brooklyn court, as south-
ern Brooklyn has been a center for Russian-speaking immigrants since the
1970s. Compared to most other LOTE-speaking litigants, a number of the
Russian speakers spoke an educated standard variety of their language, and
Speak English or What?
24
one litigant went so far as to correct an interpreter who did not speak that
way. At the same time, Russian-speaking litigants appeared on average to
engage in codeswitching, code-mixing, and insertion more frequently than
did speakers of other languages (see Chapter 6), pointing perhaps toward
habitualized language mixing and the development of a New York Russian
contact variety (cf. Gregor 2003). I observed fewer litigants speaking Polish
or Haitian Creole than Spanish or Russian, and both languages were spoken
mostly in the Brooklyn court, and to some extent also in Queens. Most Polish
speakers were adults in their 30s or 40s who appeared to be recent immi-
grants and spoke Standard Polish. By contrast, Haitian litigants fell into two
groups, based on the variety of Haitian Creole they used. Some litigants (and
all the interpreters I recorded) spoke a variety that is characterized by French
vocabulary items and a more French-like pronunciation (i.e., kreyòl fransize;
cf. Schieffelin & Doucet 1994:179) and that can be identified as the dialect of
an urban elite. Other litigants spoke a more basilectal variety, with few or no
French elements (i.e., a variety referred to as bon kreyòl or kreyòl rèk, among
other terms; cf. Schieffelin & Doucet 1994:179).10
Throughout this book, litigants are characterized as speakers of a par-
ticular language, but it is important to note that they were often multilin-
guals whose repertoires included other languages (including L2 English) and
that the language spoken in court was not always their L1, particularly not
in its standard variety. For example, among the Spanish-speaking litigants
I recorded, one was a native speaker of Brazilian Portuguese who chose to
speak Spanish because of her L2 proficiency in that language and the lim-
ited availability of interpreting for Portuguese. Two claimants from Andean
South America appeared to be speakers of an indigenous language (judging
by slight L2 features in their Spanish), although in contrast to a case dis-
cussed by Haviland (2003), there was no indication that they would have pre-
ferred interpreting in a language other than Spanish, or that they would have
been better served by it if it had been available. Similarly, some people who
spoke Russian in court were not from Russia, but from successor states of the
Soviet Union where other languages besides Russian have official status (e.g.,
Georgia and the Ukraine).
Types of disputes in court
Small claims court is often described as a venue for consumers involved in
disputes with businesses. For example, Conley and O’Barr (1990:20–24) de-
scribe a hypothetical case, “a composite drawn from the experiences of the
hundreds of litigants whose cases we studied,” in which a consumer sues
a car dealer who refuses to fix a car under warranty. This hypothetical plaintiff
is described as “you,” and thus Conley and O’Barr envision small claims court
25
Challenging claims: Immigrants in small claims court
as a venue where educated people like their own readers might go to seek re-
dress for a perceived wrong. In fact, this interpretation of the court’s role as a
venue for consumers may have contributed to the surge in academic studies of
small claims court that occurred in the 1970s, in the context of the consumer
protection movement associated with Ralph Nader (see Yngvesson & Hen-
nessey 1975:220). This view was also adopted by lawmakers seeking to reform
the court. According to Weller et al. (1990:7), “attention had shifted away from
efficient dispute resolution and toward a particular class of disputants, con-
sumer plaintiffs.” This focus on consumers contrasts with the earlier view of
small claims as an inexpensive court for poor people (Yngvesson & Hennessey
1975:221–223).
In New York City, small claims court is a venue for a large variety of
disputes, as any case can be brought to this court that involves a mone-
tary claim for less than $5,000. During my fieldwork, I observed over 200
disputes brought to small claims court. These disputes can be grouped into
a number of categories, depending on the nature of the dispute and the re-
lationship between the litigants. The most common types of disputes were
between landlords and tenants, between workers and employers, or between
business owners and their customers. Other disputes resulted from car ac-
cidents, from damage to property, or from failure to repay a loan, or some
other breach of a contract.11
This categorization of cases is based on my
own observations; however, it reflects at least in part categorizations em-
ployed by the court system. When claimants file a claim, they need to fill
out a form, which includes boxes to check for different categories, including
for example “damage caused to automobile,” “failure to return deposit,” or
“failure to pay salary.” In addition, they are asked to write a short state-
ment giving a reason for the lawsuit (see below). On the date of the hear-
ing, this categorization provides the judge or arbitrator with a first sense
of what the case is about (see Chapter 3). One important reason for such
a categorization lies in the fact that different types of cases require differ-
ent forms of evidence. For example, a claim for damages requires bringing
estimates of the cost of repair, and a claim for return of security deposit
requires bringing a lease. In addition to this entextualized categorization
on the case file, court personnel also used an unofficial categorization in
talking about cases, which focused on the relationship between the litigants.
Merry (1990:37) made a similar observation during her research in small
claims court, where cases were described as “merchant/customer, employer/
employee, landlord/tenant, and so forth.” In these and other case descrip-
tions, the more powerful parties are named first, despite the fact that they
are usually the ones being sued, and court documents always identify the
claimant first. In view of this convention, I will not use these labels but will
generally list the weaker party first. In the following sections, I will discuss
each major category separately.
Speak English or What?
26
DISPUTES BETWEEN TENANTS AND LANDLORDS
Many cases in small claims court involve disputes arising from landlord–
tenant relationships. Most commonly, these are cases brought against
landlords for failure to return a security deposit. Other claims brought by
tenants involve damages to property in the apartment or reimbursement
for repairs. Less commonly, cases are brought by landlords who sue for
outstanding rent, or over damage to the apartment. Some other cases in-
volve sublease arrangements. Several of the disputes I observed had led to
counterclaims, for example with a former tenant suing for the return of the
security deposit and the landlord seeking additional damages for repairs to
the apartment. Typical evidence in such cases consisted of a written lease,
proof of rent payment, photographs of damage, and estimates of the cost
of repairs. At times, the relationship between the litigants was very acri-
monious, particularly where there had been a more personal relationship
between landlord and tenant, such as in sublets and in other cases where
landlord and tenant had lived in the same building. In such cases, the dis-
pute often involved more than just money, but also arguments about noise,
visitors, or privacy (“she was checking my stuff”). Some of these disputes
between tenants and landlords could have been addressed in the housing
part of the civil court rather than in small claims court, and sometimes
arbitrators suggested that lawsuits should be filed there instead. In some
cases the litigants were in fact involved in a separate lawsuit in housing
court, or had been at an earlier time. For example, one landlord had suc-
cessfully sued in housing court to have a tenant evicted, but when he did
not return the security deposit, the tenant sued him back in small claims
court.
The prototypical case involved an interpreted tenant suing an English-
speaking landlord over the return of a security deposit (see excerpts (1) and
(2)). On a few occasions, landlords used interpreters as well, but only in the
cases where landlord and tenant lived in the same house, or where there
was a sublease agreement. In a few such cases the landlord and the tenant
required interpreters for different languages (e.g., Romanian and Haitian
Creole, Spanish and Pashto). In a number of cases the tenants involved in
the lawsuit were welfare recipients whose rent was subsidized through the
federal program Section 8 (see, e.g., excerpt (2)).12
Disputes in these cases
often resulted indirectly from practices of the welfare agency—for example,
if the payment of rent subsidies had been stopped or delayed, and the land-
lord was seeking to recover the money from the tenant, either in court or by
withholding the security deposit after the tenant had moved out. The Sec-
tion 8 tenants I recorded were elderly speakers of Spanish or Russian who
had lived in New York City for a long time but had limited proficiency in
English.
27
Challenging claims: Immigrants in small claims court
DISPUTES BETWEEN WORKERS AND EMPLOYERS
Another frequent category of cases involved disputes about work. Some
claimants brought lawsuits against former employers who allegedly still
owed them wages. Several such cases involved people working in the res-
taurant industry, but there were also cases brought by construction work-
ers, auto mechanics, and employees of beauty salons. Other work-related
cases were brought by private contractors who had not been paid for work
they had done, although such cases commonly involved disagreements
about whether the work had in fact been done properly. Typical evidence
in such cases involved contracts and timesheets, as well as photographs. I
also observed a related case in which the owner of a check-cashing business
sued both a customer and the customer’s former employer. The customer
had cashed a paycheck at his business, but the check had bounced. The
employer (a cleaning service) did not appear in court, and the customer,
a Spanish-speaking woman, said that she was no longer working for the
company and that it had changed ownership. Understandably, she felt that
she was entitled to the money because she had worked for it, but the arbi-
trator decided in favor of the claimant, instructing the woman to return
the money to the check-cashing office and to sue her former employer for
outstanding pay.
In one typical case, two Polish-speaking construction workers sued their
former employer for failure to pay wages. Their employer was also a Polish
speaker but used English in court. The employer did not deny that they had
worked for him, but they did not agree on the amount of money owed. The
claimants brought their own handwritten records of what days they had
worked, but the information on these did not match that on timesheets pro-
vided by the defendant, nor was it clear which work had been paid for and
which had not. The claimants also provided evidence of bounced paychecks,
but only for part of the amount they were suing for. In light of such inconclu-
sive and contradictory evidence, the arbitrator suggested a compromise, but
the claimants rejected this offer of mediation, insisting on being paid the full
amount. The arbitrator proceeded to enter a judgment in their favor, but only
at about 60% of the claim amount.
In cases brought by workers against employers, it was always the worker
who used a court interpreter. Many of them had worked for employers
who spoke the same language, but most of these defendants used English
in court. Other claimants had worked for an English-speaking employer,
particularly those who worked in restaurants. On average, the claimants
in work-related cases seemed to know less English than interpreted claim-
ants in other cases. It appears that many of these claimants spoke mostly
the respective LOTE at work rather than English. This is true even of some
Spanish-speaking claimants who worked for English-speaking employers,
Speak English or What?
28
as Spanish has become somewhat of a lingua franca in many workplaces in
New York’s service industry, particularly restaurant kitchens (compare Cal-
lahan 2005; and Barrett 2006 for a comparable situation in the southwestern
United States). As many of the workers were recent immigrants, especially
among speakers of Spanish and Polish, the question of their immigration
and employment authorization status also loomed large in the minds of
many litigants. While arbitrators did not seek to find out whether a litigant
was legally allowed to work in the United States, some litigants believed
that this was relevant information for their case. In several cases, claimants
stated that they were not undocumented immigrants but that their employ-
ers had thought that they were and therefore had believed themselves able to
get away with not paying for the work. In one case I recorded, the defendant
sought to discredit the claimant by accusing him of not having valid immi-
gration documents.
DISPUTES ABOUT CAR ACCIDENTS
Another very common category of cases consisted of lawsuits arising from
car accidents.13
Typically, these cases resulted from disagreements between
the drivers’ insurance companies regarding liability in the accident or the
cost of repairs. Claimants thus had to demonstrate in court that the defend-
ant was responsible for the accident and that their car had sustained damages
in the amount of the claim. The court requires claimants to bring either two
estimates of damages or a paid bill. Other evidence included police reports,
photographs of the scene, and witness testimony. These cases were different
from others in two respects: The litigants did not have a prior relationship
with each other, and the hearings usually involved the participation of an
attorney representing the defendant’s insurance company. In fact, cases were
often postponed if no attorney was present, as litigants were told that the in-
surance company would not pay if a defendant had appeared pro se. As a con-
sequence of this policy, some attorneys specialize in representing insurance
companies in small claims court, and they are in court very frequently, some
of them every night. These attorneys often have little or no prior information
about the dispute.14
Generally, they meet the litigants for the first time on the
night of the trial, often calling out their names in the hallway or in the court-
room, before the calendar call begins.
As the parties are unlikely to have known each other prior to the car
accident, these cases were particularly likely to involve a dispute between
members of different ethnic and linguistic communities. Of the 33 car acci-
dent cases I observed, 16 were brought by LOTE-speaking claimants against
English-speaking defendants, and seven had an English-speaking claimant
facing an interpreted defendant, while three cases had each party using a
different interpreter. By contrast, only four cases had both sides speaking
29
Challenging claims: Immigrants in small claims court
the same LOTE. In addition I observed three cases between two English-
speaking parties, two of which involved an LOTE-speaking witness. Given
that these cases almost always included an attorney representing the defend-
ant, claimants who were not fluent in English (20/33) found themselves in
a position that was structurally similar to that of the tenants or employees
discussed above, in that they were opposed by a fluent English speaker in
a socially more powerful position.
CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS
Another common category involved customer complaints. These were cases
where customers of small or large businesses demanded a refund for de-
fective merchandise or wanted to be reimbursed for damaged property. As
mentioned above, these are the types of cases that are regarded as typical
of small claims cases in the literature (cf. Conley & O’Barr 1990) and that
small claims court is intended to deal with in the eyes of the court system
(Weller et al. 1990:6). Most commonly, lawsuits were brought against auto
repair shops, contractors, or stores that had sold defective merchandise. A
special type of customer complaint involved lawsuits against small shipping
companies that had failed to deliver shipments overseas. Typically these
were shipments made by immigrant claimants to relatives in their country
of origin (the Dominican Republic, Poland, or South Korea). Necessary evi-
dence included receipts and sales contracts, as well as photographs, or esti-
mates of damages. In one case that involved a claim of medical malpractice,
a Russian-speaking claimant was told that she needed an expert witness to
prove her case.
The disputes in these customer-complaint cases often have similar ori-
gins as do some of the work-related cases discussed above. For example,
a dispute resulting from a disagreement over the work of a private contrac-
tor could result in the contractor suing the client if he did not get paid for his
work. Alternatively, if the contractor had been paid up front, the client would
sue for a refund of some or all of the money paid. With regard to interpreter
use, these cases can be divided into two categories. Most commonly, cases
were brought by claimants who used an interpreter against a business rep-
resented by a fluent English speaker. However, occasionally I also observed
cases where an English-speaking customer sued the owner of a small busi-
ness who required an interpreter, including several brought against Korean-
speaking owners of dry-cleaning businesses. One of these set the “record”
for the lowest claim amount: $4.50. The customer claimed that his pants had
been returned to him uncleaned but that the dry cleaner would not accept
them again without charging him a second time. When the arbitrator pointed
out to him that the filing fee of $15 had exceeded the amount claimed, the
claimant said that it was a matter of principle only. It seems likely that the
Speak English or What?
30
litigants’ limited ability to communicate with one another in the same lan-
guage contributed to this escalation of the dispute.
OTHER DISPUTES
Apart from the categories discussed so far, there were a variety of other
types of disputes, often between neighbors or acquaintances, regarding
loans, sales, or personal injury. Many of these cases involved two parties
who spoke the same language, and in most loan- or property-related cases
I observed, both parties were speaking Spanish. Because of the personal
relationship between the litigants, the atmosphere was sometimes partic-
ularly acrimonious, but arbitrators were also more successful with nego-
tiating settlements between the parties. Out of 12 observed cases resulting
from a loan, four ended in a settlement, which typically included a payment
plan specifying the amount and frequency of installments that the defend-
ant would pay to the claimant. Litigants in these disputes often did not have
any written evidence. However, defendants typically admitted to owing the
money even if the claimant could not prove it. The absence of written evi-
dence may have given an additional incentive to arbitrators to try to find a
mutually acceptable solution. Many of these disputes between neighbors,
acquaintances, or even friends resembled the personal disputes described
by Merry (1990) in her ethnographic study of lower courts in Massachusetts,
in that the litigants had a long history of arguing with each other and thus
brought up aspects of their relationship that arbitrators or judges deemed ir-
relevant to the case. For example, I observed a dispute between two women
who were friends from the same town in the Dominican Republic. One had
loaned money to the other’s husband, but when he left his wife and moved
away, she proceeded to sue her friend for the return of the money. At the
hearing, the two exchanged bitter and tearful accusations that suggested
that the deterioration of the friendship (exacerbated by the claimant’s de-
cision to go to court) overshadowed the importance of the financial matter
itself. However, the defendant agreed to pay, and the arbitrator negotiated a
payment plan between the parties.
Most disputes in small claims court fall into these case types, and such
a classification of cases is expected by the court, as evidenced by the design
of the claim form, which includes checkboxes for the most common types
of claims. In Chapter 3, I show that these categories represent an essential
starting point for arbitrators in their approach to the hearings. However, not
all disputes can be categorized this way, as some involve multiple grievances
at the same time, conflating issues such as damage to property, housing, and
work. In such cases, it is particularly challenging for litigants to present a co-
herent narrative that conforms to the arbitrator’s expectations, as is shown in
detail in Chapter 3.
31
Challenging claims: Immigrants in small claims court
Economics of court cases
The previous sections have provided an overview of the reasons why indi-
viduals bring cases to small claims court, and they show a clear pattern re-
garding the socioeconomic and sociolinguistic characteristics of the litigants.
Most claimants sued a defendant who was wealthier than they were and who
in many cases had control over some aspect of their lives. As landlords, em-
ployers, or business owners, the defendants were often socially and econom-
ically in more powerful positions than their opponents, and the same can be
said of insurance lawyers who represented defendants in disputes about car
accidents. Similarly, the prototypical cases of most categories involved an in-
terpreted claimant opposing an English-speaking pro se defendant or defense
attorney. Even if both sides were speakers of the same LOTE, the defendant
would commonly not use the interpreter. Of 92 observed disputes in which
one party spoke English and the other used an interpreter, 67 (73%) involved
a LOTE-speaking claimant. Thus, while much of the linguistic research on
court interpreting describes immigrants in court as defendants or witnesses
in criminal trials (e.g., Berk-Seligson 1990:44; D’hondt 2004), the large ma-
jority of the LOTE-speaking immigrants observed for this study were actu-
ally claimants (157/220 [71%] when including inquests and hearings in which
both parties spoke a LOTE, 63% if inquests are excluded). Thus, instead of
being brought to court by others, they are the ones who turn to the court,
seeking to gain redress for a perceived wrong. If we assume that individuals
with limited proficiency in English are more likely to be poor, this finding
corresponds to a general notion of small claims court as a legal venue for
people with limited financial means, unable to hire a lawyer. In fact, while I
did observe LOTE-speaking landlords or business owners, they were clearly
outnumbered by Section 8 tenants (i.e., welfare recipients) and low-income
workers (e.g., restaurant or construction workers making minimum wage),
respectively. Taken together, these two observed patterns of court use dem-
onstrate the connection between language use and social power in the context
of continuous immigration to the United States. In the “linguistic market”
(in terms of Bourdieu 1991) that is New York City, knowledge of English pro-
vides access to positions of power, including access to ownership of property
or of businesses. Individuals with limited knowledge of English rarely attain
such positions but are likely to be economically marginalized instead, limited
to subordinate positions. However, as noted by Merry (1990:86), small claims
court represents a venue where socioeconomically marginalized people can
challenge aspects of the control exercised over them.
The power asymmetries that often exist between disputants outside of
court are reproduced in court when the defendant is represented by an attor-
ney. During my fieldwork, I observed 147 disputes in which both parties were
present, and 45 of them (31%) involved the participation of an attorney. In
Speak English or What?
32
40 of these cases, the attorney represented the defendant, compared to only
two cases with represented claimants and three cases in which both parties
were represented. The litigants who did hire an attorney were generally the
wealthier party in the dispute. Common clients of attorneys included employ-
ers sued by their former employees (four cases), business owners sued by cus-
tomers (seven cases), or landlords involved in disputes with current or former
tenants (seven cases). This contrasts with only three cases where attorneys
had been hired by tenants suing a (former) landlord. Most commonly, how-
ever, attorneys are involved in cases concerning liability for damages (e.g.,
resulting from car accidents, 27 litigants).
The presence of attorneys in small claims court is controversial, as New
York State differs from many other jurisdictions where small claims court
is exclusively a pro se court (Weller et al. 1990:11). Where the presence of at-
torneys is prohibited, it is done so out of concern that a pro se (i.e., unrep-
resented) litigant will be in a disadvantaged position when facing a litigant
represented by an attorney. Studying legal outcomes in Manhattan small
claims court, Sarat (1976:367) found that any pro se litigant (claimant or de-
fendant) was disadvantaged when facing an opponent represented by an at-
torney. By contrast, Weller et al. (1990:11–12) found that this disadvantage
held only for pro se defendants, but not for pro se claimants. While the sample
of observed cases and decisions in my study is not large enough to make sta-
tistically significant claims about the factors that influence legal outcomes,
pro se claimants were found on average to be more successful when facing
a pro se defendant than when facing a defendant represented by an attorney
(see Chapter 7).
Legal consciousness
The finding that LOTE speakers in small claims court are more likely to be
claimants rather than defendants contrasts with Merry’s ethnographic study
of lower courts in Massachusetts, where she found that recent immigrants
rarely brought disputes to court, and speculated that they did not feel en-
titled to do so (Merry 1990:27). When small claims courts were created at
the beginning of the twentieth century, legal reformers conceived of them as
places where immigrants could be “Americanized”—that is, socialized into
American society (Harrington 1982:43). Arguably, the mere act of going to
court suggests that such a socialization has already taken place to a certain
degree, as the filing of a lawsuit requires some understanding of the role of
the court, and an expectation that the court can provide redress in an ongo-
ing dispute. At the same time, people differ in their understanding of what
the court can and should do, and what types of disputes are appropriately
addressed by it. Merry (1990) uses the term “legal consciousness” to describe
33
Challenging claims: Immigrants in small claims court
these attitudes and beliefs, and the court users’ perception of the law more
generally. Merry’s study included small claims courts among other lower
courts, but she focused on disputes arising from family or neighborhood
problems, and noted that court staff often disapproved of the fact that such
cases had been brought to court at all, referring to them as “garbage” cases.
As shown above, the LOTE-speaking litigants I observed were mostly in-
volved in very different types of cases, such as disputes about work, housing,
or car accidents. Also, unlike Merry (or Conley and O’Barr), I was gener-
ally unable to speak with litigants about their experiences. Nevertheless, evi-
dence for the legal consciousness of small claims litigants was often revealed
during proceedings when they talked about their rights and entitlements,
about their beliefs about what is fair and just and what is considered to be
relevant evidence in court. While it seems inappropriate to generalize across
all litigants, or even across groups of litigants with similar cultural back-
grounds or with similar claims, it is nevertheless possible to point out certain
tendencies that can be observed. To some extent, attitudes about what dis-
putes are appropriately brought to court appeared to be culture-specific, es-
pecially with regard to the relationship between the disputants. For example,
I did not observe a single dispute in which both parties were Haitian, and
one Haitian claimant commented in testimony that he had hesitated to sue a
West Indian man because the defendant’s wife was also Haitian. By contrast,
I observed numerous cases in which both parties spoke Polish, Russian, or
Spanish, and some of these disputes were between people who had previously
been friends or acquaintances (see above). Moreover, the legal consciousness
of claimants has to be viewed in contrast to that of the defendants. Cases
resulting from work-related disputes were particularly telling in this respect.
On several occasions, employers sought to justify disputed actions by refer-
ring to “company policy,” only to reveal practices that were unethical or even
illegal.15
While community-specific patterns of court use may result from cultural
practices, they may also relate to demographic and socioeconomic differ-
ences between the communities. As noted above, many of the speakers of
Spanish and Polish I observed were relative newcomers with limited English
proficiency who worked in low-paying jobs as laborers, cleaners, or restau-
rant workers, and who came to court because of disputes with their employ-
ers. Recent immigrants were also involved in disputes that revolved around
issues of continuous migration and return migration and revealed close ties
to the country of origin. For example, in several cases, claimants sued ship-
ping companies because they had lost shipments made to relatives in the Do-
minican Republic or in Poland. Several other cases revolved around extended
visits to the Dominican Republic, resulting for example in disputes with air-
lines or travel agents. By contrast, the majority of Russian-speaking litigants
and some of the Haitian Creole- and Spanish-speaking litigants appeared to
Speak English or What?
34
have lived in New York for a considerable amount of time. Some were estab-
lished as homeowners or business owners, while others had succeeded in ob-
taining Section 8 housing subsidies, which generally require a waiting period
of many years. Among these, elderly litigants relied more strongly on the in-
terpreter than did younger litigants. None of the Russian-speaking litigants
I observed was involved in a dispute related to contact with people in their
country of origin. Instead, their disputes related to events within the city’s
Russian-speaking community, centered in southern Brooklyn. One litigant,
who sued her dentist, commented that “half of New York” had already heard
her story and that everyone had known her late husband, comments that sug-
gest the degree to which she felt rooted in the city (but which the interpreter
did not translate for the arbitrator).
The legal consciousness of claimants became particularly evident when-
ever their expectations contrasted with the expectations of arbitrators. This
was often the case when a claimant was deemed as having sued the wrong
person. Such lawsuits often revealed a tendency for litigants to personalize
disputes, for example by suing the individual employee with whom one had
had an argument instead of the company with which one had a contract. This
often went along with accusations of rude behavior, as shown in the following
two excerpts, (1) from a case with a Spanish-speaking claimant and (2) from a
case with a Russian-speaking claimant who codeswitches extensively during
her hearing and uses primarily English in this excerpt.
(1)
1 Claimant: Y cuando le reclamé que ya le había dejado el apartamento
{‘and when I protested that I had already left the apartment’}
2 [y que quería mi dinero yo +]
{‘and that I wanted my money’}
3 Interpreter: [And when I- and I wa-] I want- when I told him
4 that I had left my apartment I was claiming my money +
5 Claimant: = Me dijo que me vaya para el carajo
{‘he told me to go to hell’}
6 que él no iba a pagarme ningún dinero.
{‘that he wasn’t going to pay me any money’}
7 Interpreter: = he told me to go to hell cau-
8 because he wasn’t going to pay me any money.
(2)
1 Claimant: twenty seven August and I told to (.) uh (.7) manager [(I mean)]
2 Interpreter: [mm hm]
3 Claimant: I (.) got permission move to another (.) ah building +
4 Arbitrator: Right=
35
Challenging claims: Immigrants in small claims court
5 Claimant: =and I did move December (mean) (.) èto (.) special’nyj den’
{‘It was a special day’}
6 uh De-December first, specially [day (.) move-]
7 Interpreter: [it was a designated]
8 day to move, and [it was on] December first.
9 Claimant: [December]
10 and when I came to her (.) ask my security she said (.)
11 I will give you piece of shit. And she did shut the door
Both examples are from cases in which an elderly female tenant with
Section 8 subsidies was denied the return of her security deposit. Both
report arguments with similar insults, but while the Spanish-speaking
claimant in excerpt (1) argued with and sued her landlord, the claimant
in excerpt (2) argued with an employee of the building’s managing agent,
whom she proceeded to sue, only to be told that she had sued the wrong
person. While arbitrators were generally not interested in hearing about
insults, litigants often saw them as part of a larger pattern of behavior by
the defendant, which had led them to sue in the first place. In fact, in de-
scribing the events that led to the lawsuit, several claimants characterized
the defendant’s behavior toward them as abuse (see excerpt (10) in Chapter
3). This is illustrated in the excerpt (3), from a case brought by an elderly
Russian woman against her dentist (some intervening turns by other par-
ticipants are omitted).
(3)
Claimant: a u pensionera vot tak gresti iz glotki+
{‘but taking it from the mouth of a retired person’}
. . .
Claimant: èto prosto nadrugatel’stvo.
{‘it’s simply an abuse’}
Another claimant, a South American restaurant worker, tied his former
employer’s behavior toward him to his status as an immigrant. After working
at the restaurant for several years, he had been fired from his job as dish-
washer for allegedly drinking beer on the job. This job had paid $6.50 per
hour, just above the minimum wage in New York State at the time, and the
claimant had came to court to claim back payment for unused vacation time,
$288 for one week. As shown in excerpt (4), he asserts that he has working
papers, even if the restaurant manager may have thought otherwise. A short
while later, he presented immigration documents, but the arbitrator did not
want to see them. The claimant’s turn in excerpt (4) is self-selected, occurring
while the arbitrator is reviewing documents.
Speak English or What?
36
(4)
1
2
Claimant: (2.3) Ellos think tal vez (que no estoy un) documentario, soy
ilegal
{‘They think maybe I’m not documented, I’m illegal’}
3 [tengo mis papeles]
{‘I have my papers’}
4 Interpreter: [They think that uh] maybe I’m undocumented but I: have papers.
5 Arbitrator: We didn’t get there yet.
6 Interpreter: No, no hemos llegado a eso.
{‘no, we didn’t get there yet’}
7 Claimant: (.) Que es un abuso   [(de xxx)]
{‘it’s an abuse (of xxx)’}
8 Interpreter: [It’s abusive!]
The implied connection between immigration status and working condi-
tions frames the employer’s alleged abuse as emblematic of the claimant’s
living conditions in the United States. His legal challenge against the abuse
thus represents not merely an attempt to resolve a dispute but an assertion of
rights that he believes to have, but that have been denied to him. However, he
is not certain that his understanding of his rights is correct. Throughout the
hearing he repeatedly seeks confirmation that his actions are indeed reason-
able and appropriate, as shown in excerpts (5) (with some turns omitted for
space) and (6).
(5)
1 Arbitrator: But why are you paying- [you sue for two eighty eight?]
2 Interpreter: [(xxx) ¿Por qué está demandando]
3 por doscientos ochenta y ocho dólares?
{‘Why are you suing for $288?’}
4 Claimant: Por las vacaciones anuales a que tengo derecho.
{‘For the annual vacation to which I have the right’}
. . . {10 seconds later}
5 Claimant: Me imagino que es legal.
{‘I imagine that it’s legal’}
6 Interpreter: I imagine that it’s uh /legal what I’m doing
7 Arbitrator: (.) And prior to that they were paying you a vacation?
(6) {ca. 6 minutes later}
1 Claimant: Eso yo creo que estoy con la legalidad, Señoría.
{‘I think I’m within the law, Your Honor’}
2 Interpreter: =I think I am within legal [uh bounds to ask for this]
3 Claimant: [Sólo es (.) una sola]
37
Challenging claims: Immigrants in small claims court
4 semana y ya recla [mo (xxx) (.) nada más]
{‘It’s only a week and I’m not asking for anything else’}
5 Interpreter: [I’m only asking for one:-] one single week!
That’s it!
6
7 Claimant: (.) No vengo con mentiras [(xxx xxx)]
{‘I’m not coming with lies’}
8 Interpreter: [I’m not coming here] to lie uh-
9 (.) Absolu- [tamente]
10 Arbitrator: [Alright]
11 Interpreter: uh at all!
12 Claimant: Estoy con la [verdad]
{‘I am with the truth’}
13
14
Arbitrator: [And-] and you say 
[there’s no way that we can
settle=]
15 Interpreter:   [I’m coming to tell the truth]
16 Arbitrator: =this matter? {to defendant}
As can be seen in both examples, the claimant’s assertions of his rights
are marked by hedging (me imagino ‘I imagine’ line 5 of excerpt (5), and yo
creo ‘I think’ in line 1 of excerpt (6)). In conversation analytic terms, both
turns can be viewed as downgraded first assessments that invite a confir-
mation from the arbitrator as their response. However, the arbitrator does
not respond to either of these first assessments but rather produces first-pair
parts of his own, in the form of new questions. In excerpt (5), he asks a yes/no
interrogative of the claimant, and in excerpt (6) he shifts footing even further
by asking the defendant, the restaurant manager, to whom he had already
suggested a compromise earlier in the hearing. By ignoring the claimant’s
assessments, the arbitrator avoids both an affiliative and a disaffiliative re-
sponse. Following Atkinson (1992), this can be seen as a way for arbitrators
to preserve their neutrality. The actions of arbitrators and the ways in which
they influence the proceedings will be discussed in detail in Chapter 3.
Excerpt (6) also illustrates another aspect of the legal consciousness of
many Spanish-speaking litigants, namely the explicit assertions of telling the
truth (no vengo con mentiras ‘I’m not coming with lies’ in line 7 and estoy
con la verdad ‘I’m with the truth’ in line 12). Other litigants made similar
pronouncements of their own truth and honesty, and they emphasized the
importance of having given one’s word (soy una persona de palabra—roughly,
‘I stand by my word’). Invariably, arbitrators would take this as a reason to
lecture claimants about the need to keep legally binding documents (com-
pare excerpt (2) in Chapter 4). This divergence in attitudes toward disputes is
reminiscent of the model of legal discourse proposed by Conley and O’Barr
(1990:58–59) in their study of legal discourse in informal American courts, in
which they distinguish between two contrasting orientations that participants
Speak English or What?
38
display in court, namely “rule orientation” and “relational orientation.” A
rule-oriented litigant sees the law “as a system of precise rules for assessing
responsibility” and consequently interprets the dispute solely in terms of such
rules. In contrast, a relation-oriented participant focuses on notions of social
need and entitlement. As Conley and O’Barr show, judges typically prefer
a rule-oriented approach, but many litigants in American courts show a
relationship-oriented approach toward disputes. In parallel to findings of ear-
lier research that distinguished between “powerful” and “powerless” speech
styles (O’Barr 1982), they view these approaches as related to gender, social
class, and ethnicity, where the relational approach is most commonly found
among “women, minorities, the poor, and the uneducated” (p. 81), whereas
the rule-oriented approach can be viewed as “an acquired skill which is the
property of the literate and educated business and legal class” and as an “in-
strument of class hegemony” (p. 80). The relevance of Conley’s and O’Barr’s
model for the analysis of interpreter-mediated arbitration hearings will be
discussed in detail in Chapter 3. Despite the fact that a relational approach
can be found with many American-born litigants, many arbitrators (including
Spanish-speaking arbitrators) framed the different approaches as a cultural
contrast between what is done in America versus what might be customary
in the claimant’s country of origin. This construction of cultural otherness is
reminiscent of D’hondt’s (2009) study of “culturalization” in Belgian crimi-
nal trials, where he found that defense attorneys tended to attribute the con-
duct of immigrant defendants to cultural difference (see also Kadric 2001:38).
Challenges in filing a claim
Discrepancies between litigants’ legal consciousness and the expectations of
the court system also play an important role in the filing process, particu-
larly if they result in a lawsuit being filed against the “wrong” person (see the
discussion of excerpt (2) above). Claimants initiate a lawsuit in small claims
court by filing a claim at the small claims clerk’s office in the courthouse
during office hours. This involves completing a “Statement of Claim” form,
which requires stating the address of the defendant, the amount claimed, and
the reason for the claim. The form is written in English, as are nearly all of the
informational material and signs displayed in the offices at the three court-
houses, with the exception of two informational signs in Spanish at the Man-
hattan courthouse. Claimants with limited fluency in English often come
accompanied by a friend or relative who speaks for them, although in theory
interpreters are also available to help with filing claims. In practice, this is
limited to civil court staff interpreters who can be summoned from elsewhere
in the building on short notice, which is generally the case with interpreters
for Spanish, but often not with other languages.16
Unlike in the courtroom,
39
Challenging claims: Immigrants in small claims court
however, interpreters are called to assist in filing only if no communication
between clerk and claimant is possible otherwise. For example, I observed a
claimant who approached the clerk with the question “You understand Span-
ish, no?” When the clerk said no, the claimant proceeded in very labored
English, and it was far from certain whether he understood everything the
clerk said. At trial, an arbitrator or judge would most likely ask this litigant
to speak through an interpreter. This observation corresponds to findings by
Berk-Seligson (2000:212), who notes that, while the use of interpreters in the
courtroom has become routine in recent years, the same standards for inter-
preting are often not upheld “at the front end of [the] judicial process” (e.g.,
at the crime scene or at the police station), sometimes with serious legal and
social consequences. In this case, the frequent lack of interpreting reduced
the likelihood that LOTE-speaking litigants file their claims in the legally ap-
propriate manner, which is a prerequisite for a successful claim.
Many people who wish to file a claim are unsure about how to do so and
ask the clerk for advice, often narrating their dispute in detail. Depending on
the clerk’s personality and mood, and if the office is not too busy, this inter-
action may have parallels to an inquest hearing (see Chapter 3), with the clerk
listening to the claimant’s story and assisting in framing it in legally relevant
terms. It appears that some claimants perceive this interaction as a first hear-
ing of their case, which becomes evident during their court hearing when they
start by recounting to the arbitrator what the clerk told them. This shows that
litigants, in particular ones speaking an LOTE, may not understand the in-
stitutional process and may fail to differentiate the roles of individual repre-
sentatives of the court (cf. Liedke 1997:171). In any case, clerks cannot always
give such careful assistance, especially shortly before closing time, when the
office is crowded with people waiting in line. At such times, people in line
were often nervous and insecure about how to proceed. If the clerk was busy,
they would ask for advice from anyone else available, including from other
people in line, or from me, and often they would ask the same question of sev-
eral people, as if to assure themselves they were doing the right thing.
Given this nervousness and lack of understanding of the legal process
that characterizes many of the people who want to bring a suit in small claims
court, it is not surprising that errors are made that lead to problems on the
day of the hearing. The most common problem that arises in filing a claim is
the incorrect identification of the defendant (cf. Ruhnka & Weller 1978:175).17
It is not unusual for a claimant to sue a “wrong” person or company instead
of the party that is legally responsible (see above). In addition, many claim-
ants have problems identifying the defendant’s correct name and address. If
an incorrect address has been given, the court will be unable to serve the de-
fendant with a notice of the claim. This may ultimately lead to the case being
dismissed unless the claimant is able to arrange for the notice of claim to be
delivered to the defendant in person. Clerks do try to help claimants identify
Speak English or What?
40
the correct party to sue, and in doubtful cases they may suggest that claimants
file multiple claims (e.g., against a company and against its owner in person).
However, these efforts are not always successful, especially if the claimant did
not bring the relevant documents (such as a contract or lease) and if there is
a language barrier. During my fieldwork, I observed several cases in which
claimants with limited English skills had sued the wrong person or had made
some other mistake at the time of filing that led to the case being dismissed by
the arbitrator. Such errors included filing a claim that belonged in a different
court, failing to sue all relevant parties (e.g., in a car accident with three or
more cars), or incorrectly describing the reason for the claim. In all of these
cases, the claimants may well have had legitimate grievances, but the proce-
dural errors caused delays and additional costs for them, requiring them to
return to court multiple times, to pay filing fees a second time, and to experi-
ence additional delays (the filing fee was $15 or $20, depending on the amount
sued for, and hearings were scheduled for approximately five weeks after the
date of filing). One Spanish-speaking arbitrator told me that in her experi-
ence there are often errors with claims filed by Spanish-speaking litigants.
On a night when I observed five hearings conducted by this arbitrator, she
showed me the claim files of two that included errors. In one case, the names
of two defendants were jumbled into one. In the other, the card stated “defec-
tive repairs, security deposit,” as the reason for the claim, whereas the claim-
ant wanted to be reimbursed by her landlord for having had her apartment
repainted. In addition, she had sued the managing agent instead of the land-
lord. The arbitrator had to dismiss the case but gave the claimant detailed
instructions about how to proceed in order to file the appropriate lawsuit.
One extreme case is that of a Russian-speaking woman I observed over
the course of several months as she tried to sue her former landlord for the
return of her security deposit. Initially, she sued the company that manages
the building (to which she had paid the rent), as well as one of its employees
with whom she had had an argument when she asked for the return of her
deposit (see excerpt (2) above). On her first court date, the defendants did not
appear and so the case was sent to an arbitrator for a so-called inquest, which
I was able to record. The claimant had brought her lease, from which the ar-
bitrator determined that she had not sued the party who was legally responsi-
ble, namely the landlord. With the help of a Russian interpreter, he explained
to her whom she needed to sue (a company), and he wrote down the name and
address for her when she told him that she could not write in English. Several
months later, I saw her again when her case came to trial in front of a judge.
She had sued two companies, including the one identified by the arbitrator,
and she had sued an individual whom she believed to be the landlord. In
return, this person had countersued her for legal fees, and he was represented
in court by an attorney who stated that the defendant was not in fact the
landlord. The judge determined that the proper defendant was the company
41
Challenging claims: Immigrants in small claims court
that had also been identified by the arbitrator, and he dismissed the other
two lawsuits. The company, however, had not been successfully served with
the notice of claim (i.e., the letter with the notice was returned to the court
as undeliverable).18
From the perspective of the judge, the proper defendant
had thus not been informed and the case could not proceed, even though the
counterclaimant’s attorney also represented both other companies, showing
that the proper defendant was well aware of being sued. The judge postponed
the case and told the confused claimant to inquire at the clerk’s office about
having the notice of claim delivered to the defendant. Because the office was
open late that night, she was able to go there straight away and have the in-
terpreter help her. When the case was back on the calendar two months later,
the proper defendant had been served, but this time the defendant’s attor-
ney asked for a postponement, which was granted (each party is allowed to
ask for one postponement). All in all, there were at least six court dates over
a period of nine months until the case was decided.19
It thus appears that
problems with correctly filing a lawsuit are often a consequence of a litigant’s
inexperience with the legal system but may also be due to deceit on the part
of the defendant. In either case, claimants with limited English skills seem
especially likely to have problems in filing a lawsuit that is perceived by the
court as an appropriate reaction to their dispute.
While this chapter has thus shown that LOTE-speaking litigants face
considerable obstacles in bringing a dispute to court, the following chapters
explore what happens when they succeed in doing so. Chapter 3 describes
arbitration hearings, the most common type of proceeding in small claims
court. The chapter describes the role of arbitrators and identifies different
styles of arbitration, which affect the ability of LOTE-speaking litigants to
make themselves heard.
3
“I’ve heard your story:” How arbitrators decide
Arbitration or trial: The choice of hearings in small claims court
When litigants arrive in small claims court on the day of their scheduled
hearing, they are faced with a choice between two different procedures: a
trial presided by a judge or an arbitration hearing led by an arbitrator.1
These
types of hearings differ in a number of ways, most importantly in the qual-
ification and training of the legal decision maker, but also with regard to
the formality of the proceedings, their scheduling and length, and the legal
significance of the decision. Each civil court has a number of judges, who
take turns at presiding over sessions of small claims court, when they hear
motions and conduct trials. By contrast, arbitrators are not employed by the
court system but are attorneys who volunteer to hear small claims cases (see
below). Some arbitrators serve frequently, as often as once a week or every
other week, while others do so only a few times per year.
At all three courthouses where I conducted fieldwork, trials are con-
ducted in large courtrooms, with the judge sitting on the bench and liti-
gants below him or her, either standing in front of the bench or sitting at
tables in the courtroom. The judge is accompanied by an armed court of-
ficer, who may move around the courtroom to transfer documents between
judge and litigants. By contrast, arbitration hearings vary in the formality
of their spatial arrangement, depending on the architecture of the court-
house and the preference of the arbitrator. While some hearings are held in
courtrooms and are set up like trials, others take place in small delibera-
tion rooms, with litigants and arbitrator sitting together around the table.
Court officers are generally not present during arbitration hearings. This
difference in formality is also related to differences in the legal status of
the decision. A judge’s decision can be appealed, whereas an arbitrator’s
decision is final. As a consequence, trials are tape-recorded by the court to
42
43
“I’ve heard your story:” How arbitrators decide
create a court record (in case of an appeal, the appellant has to pay for the
transcript), while no court record is made of arbitration hearings. Unlike
judges, arbitrators thus do not have to be concerned about any procedural
requirements that could form the basis of an appeal, and this contributes
to making arbitration hearings less formal and typically much shorter than
judge-led trials. During my fieldwork, I observed both types of hearings,
but I made audiorecordings of arbitration hearings only. The main reason
for doing so was that I was primarily interested in observing the language
use of pro se litigants who spoke a language other than English (LOTE),
and the greater informality made arbitration hearings more suitable for this
purpose. In addition, the focus on arbitration hearings was motivated by
the fact that the large majority of cases in small claims court were in fact
decided by arbitrators (see below).
The choice between going before a judge and going before an arbitrator
is presented to litigants at the beginning of the court session (see Angermeyer
to appear). All litigants who have a hearing scheduled for that night assem-
ble in a large courtroom for the so-called calendar call. At the beginning
of the court session, a court clerk sitting on the judge’s bench reads an an-
nouncement through a microphone, explaining court procedures and intro-
ducing the choice between judge and arbitrator.2
This choice is presented as
a tradeoff between rights and convenience, where going to a judge entails
long delays and going to an arbitrator promises an “immediate” decision.
Litigants are told that an arbitrator’s decision is final, while that of a judge
can be appealed, but the announcement also emphasizes that an appeal “may
be expensive and time-consuming.” The announcement does not address any
other differences between trials and arbitration, such as the degree of for-
mality or the average length of the hearing. At two of the three courthouses,
a Spanish version of this announcement was sometimes given by one of the
court interpreters. Speaking from the floor of the courtroom and without a
microphone, the interpreter would tell litigants how to respond to the calen-
dar call in English (Si Usted quiere ir ante un juez, diga “by the court” ‘if you
want to go before a judge, say “by the court”’).
Once the calendar call begins, the court clerk reads the names from the
docket, and litigants are requested to respond with their name to indicate
that they are present, and to add “by the court” if they want their case to be
decided by a judge. Following their response, the court clerk instructs them
what to do next, usually to go to a different room to wait for an arbitration
hearing, or to remain seated until further notice. With both the announce-
ment and the format of the calendar call, the court steers litigants toward
arbitration. In the announcement, arbitration is presented as the default
option, as the text proclaims that “most cases are heard by arbitrators,” and
the downsides of going to a judge are emphasized. Moreover in the calendar
call, the simple repetition of one’s name is taken as agreement to arbitration,
Speak English or What?
44
whereas the request for a judge-led trial has to be made explicit with the for-
mulaic and nontransparent phrase “ready by the court.” As a consequence, it
is not surprising that some litigants, particularly speakers of languages other
than English or Spanish, do not fully understand the significance of their re-
sponse to the calendar call. In fact, I observed several litigants who were sent
to an arbitrator even though they had meant to request a judge (see Anger-
meyer to appear). A lack of understanding of the differences between judges
and arbitrators was also evident during hearings when litigants addressed
arbitrators as “Your Honor,” or referred to them as “judge,” which occurred
frequently, especially with arbitrators who heard cases from the bench in-
stead of sitting at a table with the litigants.
Court staff encourage litigants to choose arbitration because the court
system does not devote sufficient resources to small claims court to process
the caseload with judge-led trials. During the period of my fieldwork, the case-
load at the courts averaged between 100 (in Manhattan) and 130 (in Queens)
cases per evening. On any given night, some of the cases on the docket would
be dismissed because of a formal problem or because the claimant had not
come to court. Other cases would be adjourned for another date because of
a litigant’s request. Cases where only the claimant had come to court were
sent to an arbitrator for a so-called inquest, a preliminary hearing done in
the absence of the defendant. If the arbitrator found that the claim had merit,
a preliminary decision would be made, which could then be appealed by the
defendant. The remaining cases were processed in order of their filing date
and assigned to judges or arbitrators. The judge would typically not be able
to decide more than one or two cases per night, while arbitrators would make
several decisions each, often as many as five or even more. Consequently,
most litigants who had opted for a judge-led trial would not have their case
heard, forcing them to come back on one or more other dates until their case
was the oldest on the docket. By contrast, many litigants who opted for an
arbitrator would have their case decided on the same night, if the court had
sufficient arbitrators available to process the caseload.3
All in all, the court
system claims that 95% of all cases are heard by arbitrators, which is consis-
tent with my observations.4
The arbitrators
In the procedural instructions that precede the calendar call, the court clerk
describes arbitrators as “court-appointed attorneys who volunteer their time
to try small claims cases.” Attorneys do not have a direct benefit from vol-
unteering, except that participation in arbitrator training counts toward ful-
filling a requirement for continuing legal education.5
Also, it appears to be
customary that candidates for judge in civil court serve as arbitrators before
45
“I’ve heard your story:” How arbitrators decide
they campaign for office. During my fieldwork, I observed approximately 50
different arbitrators, and I was able to talk to many of them about their mo-
tives for volunteering. Most felt that they were doing a form of community
service, but they also admitted that as lawyers they were interested in the
experience of viewing a case from the judge’s perspective. One arbitrator, a
native speaker of Spanish, told me that she volunteered as an arbitrator in the
hope of improving access to the justice system for Spanish-speaking litigants,
as she felt that interpreters were not always reliable and that litigants were
better served if the arbitrator could understand what they said in Spanish (see
Angermeyer 2014).
Arbitrators varied significantly in their style and approach to conduct-
ing hearings. Some arbitrators clearly sought to give themselves the aura of
a judge, for example one who referred to himself as “the court” (“Please tell
the court what happened,” “the court has enough information”; see excerpts
(12) and (14) below) and who used a mallet with which he hit the bench to
signal the end of a hearing. By contrast, other arbitrators often made a point
of stressing the differences between arbitration and trial by judge, both to
me and to the litigants. In talking to me, some acknowledged that they were
willing to hear a litigant out even if they thought that his or her case would be
“thrown out by the judge” for insufficient evidence. They generally tended to
explain the law to litigants and tell them what type of evidence they needed
to prove their case, thus turning arbitration hearings into law lessons for the
other participants. One such arbitrator told me that, in his view, arbitration
was “not supposed to simply follow the letter of the law” but to do “sub-
stantive justice,” echoing the original directive that small claims courts are
supposed to emphasize substantive law over procedural law (Yngvesson &
Hennessey 1975). The different attitudes of individual arbitrators appeared to
correlate with the frequency with which they volunteered. Those who served
every two weeks or more often acted more judge-like and were often impa-
tient, if not irritable, when dealing with litigants who were poorly prepared or
who gave what they perceived as incoherent testimony. As shown below, they
usually had formulaic ways of declaring a hearing to be finished, often cut-
ting off litigants who wanted to continue their testimony (“Okay, I’ve heard
this case. I will make my decision”). In contrast, arbitrators who served less
frequently took more time to allow litigants to “tell their story” and often
made a point of explicitly ensuring that litigants had said everything they had
wanted to say (“Is there anything else you wanted to show me or tell me?”).
They were also more likely to attempt to negotiate a compromise between the
litigants, sometimes making it explicit that they would prefer not to have to
make a decision, as shown in excerpt (1). The interpreter’s turns are omitted
for clarity, but the excerpt shows that the arbitrator leaves many pauses to
facilitate interpretation, something that many other arbitrators did not do
(see Chapter 5).
Speak English or What?
46
Settlements were regularly suggested and often successful in cases be-
tween acquaintances concerning a private loan that was not repaid or a sale
that was not fully paid. Also, in several cases, arbitrators suggested settle-
ments in disputes between employers and employees, but these litigants never
agreed. If litigants agreed to a settlement, the arbitrator set up a contract be-
tween the two sides, a “stipulation of settlement,” that specified the agreement
as well as the penalties for breaking the agreement. Writing this stipulation
usually took several minutes, after which it would be read to the parties and
signed by both in front of the arbitrator.6
Hearings resulting in a settlement
thus generally took longer than other hearings. The judge-like arbitrators
who were concerned with processing cases quickly rarely suggested settle-
ments. Sometimes settlements were suggested by one of the parties involved,
generally the defendant or an attorney for the defendant, and in one case, a
“fast” arbitrator refused to draw up a stipulation of settlement, even though
both sides agreed to a compromise.7
To some extent, the distinction between
different types of arbitrators also correlated with the setting in which hear-
ings were conducted, even though it was generally not up to the arbitrators
to choose a setting. In Manhattan, arbitration hearings were held in small
rooms, such as those used for jury deliberations, and arbitrator and litigants
were sitting together around a table. Because the Manhattan court has the
largest number of arbitrators available, the majority of arbitrators there
served less frequently than their counterparts in the other boroughs, and,
by comparison, they tended to act less like judges. In Brooklyn and Queens,
nearly all arbitration hearings were conducted in regular courtrooms. Ar-
bitrators typically sat at the bench, especially those who served very fre-
quently, while litigants stood or sat below them in the courtroom. The option
of conducting hearings at a table was available to arbitrators in Queens, and
occasionally this was done in Brooklyn as well.8
In both courthouses, the ar-
bitrators who chose this option were less frequent arbitrators who were more
likely to suggest compromises between the parties instead of emphasizing
their own role as decision makers. While the setting of arbitration hearings
was thus largely dependent on the architecture of the courthouse, it may well
be that the architecture had an indirect influence on the style in which hear-
ings were conducted, for example by making it more difficult for judge-like
(1)
Arbitrator: I just wanna talk to you + (2.0) about the situation here +
(1.8) to see if we can (.6) reach a settlement + (1.7) on this +
(.6) without my having to + (1.2) render a decision.
(1.4) In other words, a settlement that everybody (.) can agree to
(4.0) W- would everybody be willing for us to talk
and see if we can work this out? (4.5) If we can’t, I’ll render a
decision.
47
“I’ve heard your story:” How arbitrators decide
arbitrators in Manhattan to project their authority to litigants who were sit-
ting at a table with them.
The observed distinction between different styles of arbitration corre-
sponds to distinctions observed by legal anthropologists studying the atti-
tudes of judges toward the law. In their study of small claim courts, Conley
and O’Barr (1990:111) found that “informal judges are highly variable in their
conceptions of the law, their views of their role, and their approaches to prob-
lem solving.” To capture this variation, they propose a typology of the juris-
prudence of informal court judges that distinguishes five different styles (“the
proceduralist,” “the strict adherent to the law,” “the authoritative decision
maker,” “the lawmaker,” and “the mediator”), which are based on their “dif-
ferent conceptions of the legal process, beliefs about the mandate of judges
within that process, and decision-making styles” (p. 82). These five styles fall
within the rule–relationship continuum that Conley and O’Barr see as orga-
nizing legal discourse more generally (see Chapter 2), with most types display-
ing rule orientation, and the mediator type taking a relational approach to
disputes (pp. 106–109). In another study of legal ideologies, Philips (1998:49)
examined the ways in which judges take guilty pleas and identified two dis-
tinct interactional strategies. One group of judges, whom she characterized
as “procedure oriented,” were engaging defendants directly, providing them
with legal information and seeking to “personally establish the defendant’s
knowingness and voluntariness during the procedure.” In her view, this be-
havior contrasted with that of the second group of “record-oriented” judges,
who were primarily concerned that “there be evidence in the written record . . .
that the defendant was pleading guilty knowingly and voluntarily” but who
did not personally check whether defendants had actually understood the
legal implications of their guilty pleas. With regard to small claims court,
Philips’s categorization of the behavior of judges corresponds most closely to
the way in which different groups of arbitrators ask litigants to consent to the
arbitration procedure (see below, and Angermeyer to appear). Philips’s (1998)
analysis also shows that procedure-oriented judges devoted more time per
defendant than did record-oriented judges (pp. 51, 54).
In small claims court, a hearing with a judge-like arbitrator thus resem-
bles a trial by a “rule-oriented” (Conley & O’Barr 1990) or “record-oriented”
(Philips 1998) judge, as the arbitrator is eager to make a quick decision based
on an assessment of legally relevant facts.9
By contrast, a hearing with a “pa-
tient” arbitrator is more like a mediation session, conducted by an arbitrator
who is more “relationship-oriented” (Conley & O’Barr 1990) or “procedure-
oriented” (Philips 1998), who may suggest a settlement between the parties
and emphasize the differences between himself or herself and a judge. This
variation extends to all aspects of conducting a hearing, as will be shown in
more detail below. While the distinction thus corresponds to the findings of
previous studies, it is also one that court staff and arbitrators are aware of.
Speak English or What?
48
In particular, the clerks and court officers who interact with arbitrators during
the court session regularly distinguish between what they refer to as “fast”
and “slow” arbitrators. Being concerned with processing the caseload, court
officials make it clear that they appreciate it if an arbitrator is able to hear
six or more cases per evening. In one court, the clerk told one such arbitrator
that she was his “best” arbitrator, and he had previously nominated her for
an “arbitrator of the year” award given by the court. “Slow” arbitrators were
sometimes teased by court staff, as shown in excerpt (2), or they felt the need
to apologize if cases took an unexpectedly long time, as shown in excerpt (3).
Because of this emphasis on the time spent per hearing, I will use the terms
“fast” arbitrator and “slow” arbitrator whenever the distinction between ar-
bitrator styles becomes relevant. Like the typologies proposed by Conley and
O’Barr and Philips, these two styles of arbitration are best understood as end-
points of a continuum between the “fastest” and the “slowest” arbitrators.
(2)
{From field notes: after all hearings are concluded, the arbitrator is talking to
me and to a group of law students who observed the hearings; a court officer
joins in}
Officer: {to observers, joking} It was his first time.
Arbitrator: {to observers} Do you have any other questions?
Officer: Yeah, why do you take so long?
Arbitrator: Because I’m thorough.
(3)
{after conclusion of a long hearing}
Officer: That’s it for tonight.
Arbitrator: (1.4) That’s it? (.6) Oh, I’m so:rry that took so long but (.)
they didn’t stop
Officer: (.) No, no  [don’t worry].
Arbitrator: [This lawyer] was a pain in the ass.
Officer: {laugh} Hey you may be on tape, watch yourself.
The different styles of arbitration also have important consequences for
litigants who are not fluent in English. Clerks and court officers believe that
cases with interpreters require more time (“the interpreters slow us down”),
and thus they prefer to assign them to “fast” arbitrators. As a result, litigants
who require the assistance of an interpreter are more likely than other liti-
gants to have their case heard by an arbitrator who is intent on keeping the
hearing short and who is impatient with interpreted testimony (see below, as
well as Chapter 5). In my observation, this tendency is particularly strong
when the courthouse has a shortage of arbitrators.
49
“I’ve heard your story:” How arbitrators decide
The small claims arbitrators varied not only in their approaches toward
the law but also in their linguistic repertoire, as many were themselves bi-
lingual. I observed several arbitrators who spoke Spanish, either as a first
or a second language. In one courthouse, Spanish-speaking arbitrators oc-
casionally conducted hearings in Spanish without using an interpreter (see
Angermeyer 2014). With two exceptions, these were inquests—that is, prelim-
inary hearings held in the absence of the defendant. More commonly, Span-
ish interpreters were used even if all participants were Spanish speakers. In
such cases, litigants gave testimony in Spanish, which was translated into
English, despite the fact that the arbitrator understood it, and the arbitrator
then spoke English, which was again translated by the interpreter.10
When
asked about this practice, interpreters, arbitrators, and court staff generally
felt that it was more appropriate for hearings to be conducted in English. The
Spanish-speaking arbitrators also noted that they were not familiar with legal
terminology in Spanish, and one told me that in his view, speaking English
helped to create some “distance” between him and the litigants. These com-
ments point toward the fact that language choice indexes social identities and
is subject to language ideologies, as discussed in Chapter 1 (see also Anger-
meyer 2014). In any case, the presence of Spanish-speaking arbitrators intro-
duced a factor that set Spanish apart from the other languages used in New
York City courts, as speakers of other languages had virtually no chance of
encountering an arbitrator who could speak or understand their language.
The arbitration hearing
Compared to other types of courtroom interaction, arbitration hearings are
informal in many respects, but they nonetheless follow a clear structure that
is anchored by several required procedural steps. Arbitrators begin the pro-
ceedings by reading the litigants’ names off the case file. Once the identity of
the participants has been established, the arbitrator asks the litigants to sign
a consent form that states that they agree to have their case decided by an ar-
bitrator and that they waive their right to appeal the decision. In making this
request for written consent, some arbitrators give a detailed explanation of
the legal and procedural differences between arbitration and judge-led trials.
Other arbitrators assume that litigants already understand this distinction
and take the litigants’ presence in the courtroom as an indication of their
willingness to go along with arbitration. These arbitrators ask only for the
signature on the consent form, without providing further legal information.11
As discussed in detail in Angermeyer (to appear), these differences between
individual arbitrators are reminiscent of the findings of Philips’s (1998) dis-
tinction between “procedure-oriented” and “record-oriented” judges, where
the former seek to “personally establish the defendants’ knowingness and
Speak English or What?
50
voluntariness” (p. 49), while the latter are concerned primarily with entering
evidence of the defendant’s state of mind into the court record. Moreover, the
differences in individual arbitrators’ approaches to consent are also consis-
tent with differences in how they conduct the hearings, as “fast” arbitrators
abbreviate the consent procedure and “slow” arbitrators do not.
Once they have consented to arbitration, litigants are asked to write their
address on an envelope, which will be used to mail the arbitrator’s decision to
them. As a final preliminary, litigants are asked to swear an oath that they will
tell the truth. This oath arguably represents the moment when the arbitration
hearing is at its most trial-like; however, arbitrators varied significantly in
their phrasing of the oath formula. Those arbitrators who emphasized their
role as decision makers and downplayed the distinction between arbitrators
and judges all used oaths that were marked by formal legal language, includ-
ing features like archaic phrases (“so help you God”), or conjoined phrases
(“swear or affirm” or “the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth”),
that have long been identified as typical characteristics of legal language (see
Mellinkoff 1963:121–2, 172, 394; Tiersma 1999:61–64). On the other hand,
some versions of the oath were decidedly plainer (Do you swear to tell the
truth in this proceeding?), perhaps in a conscious effort to live up to the prom-
ise of small claims court as an informal legal venue. These versions were used
only by “slow” arbitrators, especially those who tried to broker settlements
between the parties.
After the swearing of the oath, the arbitrator is ready to hear testimony
from the litigants. This testimony phase of the arbitration hearing can be
conceived of as consisting of “macro-turns” that determine who is allowed
to speak when and in what order. Invariably, arbitrators ask the claimant to
speak first and the defendant to speak second, once the claimant has pre-
sented the claim. Following these testimonies, both parties may also ask ques-
tions of the other side, but typically the arbitrator is the one asking questions
and the litigants are confined to responding and giving testimony. This is
characteristic of small claims proceedings in general. In contrast to adver-
sarial proceedings, where testimony is driven by the questioning of attorneys,
judges and arbitrators in small claims court take a major role in eliciting tes-
timony from litigants and witnesses and in establishing the facts of the case
(Atkinson 1992). Thus, they can be seen as taking on a more investigative
and inquisitorial role than judges normally do in common law courts (Yn-
gvesson & Hennessey 1975:223; Gibbons 2003:5). This can be understood as
resulting from the fact that small claims court is primarily intended for pro se
litigants, who have no attorney to conduct an examination-in-chief, and who
also cannot be counted upon to conduct an appropriate cross-examination.
However, if lawyers are present, as they often are in New York small claims
court, they usually want to question the opposing party in a manner compa-
rable to cross-examination at formal trials. Arbitrators generally try to limit
51
“I’ve heard your story:” How arbitrators decide
such questioning because it interferes with their own role and is perceived as
causing unnecessary delays (see excerpt (3) above). Some arbitrators clarify
at the outset who is going to speak at what time, in order to establish ground
rules for the hearing and to discourage interruptions and arguments. Most
arbitrators, however, proceed directly to the testimony phase, which invari-
ably begins with the arbitrator asking the claimant to explain the case, often
reading the claim amount and the basic case categorization from the court file
card that arbitrators receive from the clerk. This is shown in excerpt (4) from
a case with a “fast” arbitrator (the interpreter’s turns are omitted for clarity).
(4)
Arbitrator: Okay Mister Brown you brought this action +
(2.1) for four hundred and seventy four dollars +
(.8) it’s for non-payment + (1.0) of an insurance claim.
(.8) Please tell the court what happened.
As shown in excerpt (4), the arbitrator’s initiating turn is typically a broad
wh-question or functionally comparable request for an open-ended response
(“what happened”). Research on questioning in courtroom interaction has
noted that wh-questions are best suited for eliciting a narrative account from
a witness (Woodbury 1984:225; Harris 2001:67), but they are rarely used in
the adversarial system. Instead, research has consistently found that lawyers
who question witnesses tend to use yes/no interrogatives or declaratives that
are accompanied by question tags, particularly during cross-examination
(Atkinson & Drew 1979:66; Danet et al. 1980; Woodbury 1984; Ehrlich 2001;
Matoesian 1993; Eades 2008). Such closed questions have been characterized
as controlling or coercive because they strongly constrain the range of accept-
able responses (Danet et al. 1980; Woodbury 1984). In asking wh-questions,
arbitrators thus act in a way that is less controlling or coercive than what
would be expected of an attorney in an adversarial proceeding, and this can
be considered as another feature that contributes to the relative informality of
small claims court compared to other courts. Moreover, these ­
wh-questions
are true information-seeking questions, given that the arbitrators have no
prior knowledge of the dispute before them (apart from the brief character-
ization on the file card). This contrasts strongly with typical courtroom ques-
tioning, where attorneys do have prior knowledge of the disputed events and
design their questioning to elicit a particular narrative rather than to seek
information they are unaware of (Atkinson & Drew 1979:173; Matoesian 1993;
Harris 2001). Small claims arbitrators do use closed questions after the claim-
ant’s initial narrative, when they ask follow-up questions to clarify aspects
that are unclear or that may have been omitted from the narrative (see extract
(5) below) or when they ask the defendant to confirm or deny specific details
from the claimant’s testimony (see extract (6) below). However, even these
Speak English or What?
52
closed questions are often not as controlling as they would be in a formal trial.
Moreover, Ehrlich and Sidnell (2006) show that the degree of control exerted
by a question is not merely a function of the question form alone but depends
strongly on the questioner’s ability to insist on a type-conforming response.
Attorneys in court typically require such a response, and witnesses’ attempts
to provide responses that are not type-conforming, such as a narrative re-
sponse to a yes/no interrogative, may be stricken from the court record (Atkin-
son 1992:205). By contrast, small claims arbitrators typically do not insist on
type-conforming responses, although they may reiterate a question that was
not answered (compare also Atkinson 1992:207). The arbitrators’ use of differ-
ent question types is illustrated in excerpt (5), from a case about a car accident
involving a Russian-speaking claimant. As can be seen, the arbitrator begins
with a broad wh-question (okay, what happened? line 1), prompting a short
narrative from the claimant (lines 3–19), which is translated from Russian in
consecutive mode by the interpreter (lines 4–20). The arbitrator’s follow-up
question is a yes/no interrogative (did you have a stop sign? line 21) that seeks
clarification of an aspect that was not addressed in the narrative.
(5)
1 Arbitrator: Okay, what happen:ed (.) [Mister: (.) Yashin?]
2 Interpreter: [Čto proizošlo] Mister Yashin?
{‘what happened, Mister Yashin?’}
3 Claimant: (.9) Uh, ja exal s Coney Island, [povernul-]
{‘I was driving from Coney Island (Avenue), turned’}
4 Interpreter:    [I was-] going from Coney Island
5 and  [made a turn]
6 Claimant: [povernul] na I +
{‘turned onto (Ave.) I’}
7 Interpreter: (.9) to I
8 Claimant: (.) proexal dvenadcatyj I na trinadcatoj  [(xxx)+]
{‘passed 12th (Street) and at 13th (Street)’}
9 Interpreter:          
[And I passed] twelve,
and on thirteen +
10
11 Claimant: (.9) Thirteenth Street, [on ne- on ne=]
{‘he didn’t’}
12 Interpreter: [Thirteenth Street +]
13 Claimant: =ostanovilsja na stop-line, koroče, [vyskočil +]
{‘he didn’t stop at the stop-line, in short, he jumped out’}
14 Interpreter:     
[He did not] stop on the stop
sign
15
16 (.8) and he darted out +
17 Claimant: i ja ego uda- uda- my stolknulis’ +
{‘and I hit him- hit-- we collided’}
53
“I’ve heard your story:” How arbitrators decide
The claimant’s turns in excerpt (5) illustrate an example of a successful
initial narrative, as the Russian-speaking claimant succeeds in presenting the
most important relevant facts. Despite its brevity, the account contains sev-
eral characteristic elements of personal experience narratives as defined by
Labov and Waletzky (1967), such as an orientation (lines 3, 6, and 8, begin-
ning with Ja exal s Coney Island ‘I was driving from Coney Island Avenue’), a
complicating action (on ne ostanovilsja na stop-line, koroče, vyskočil ‘he didn’t
stop at the stop-line, in short, he jumped (darted) out’ in line 13), and a result
(my stolknulis’ ‘we collided’ in line 17). Finally, in contrast to many other in-
terpreted litigants who are left wanting to say more (see below), he even man-
ages to finish with a coda (èto vsë ‘that’s all’ in line 19). While this claimant’s
testimony may not contain all the relevant information, it is presented in a
form acceptable to the arbitrator. The arbitrator does not interrupt the claim-
ant but merely adds a clarifying question (did you have a stop sign? in line 21)
before turning to the defendant and asking him for his “side of the story.”
Compared to the testimony of claimants, that of defendants is often not
a full narrative but instead represents a reaction to the claimant’s allegations
(cf. Conley & O’Barr 1990:174; Hoffmann 1983:79). Arbitrators often make
this explicit when they give the floor to the defendant. For example, arbitra-
tors may ask factual questions to confirm allegations made by the claimant,
or they may focus directly on the central accusation. This is shown in excerpt
(6) from a case about another car accident, where the defendant was accused
of driving the claimant’s car without permission. After the claimant has given
narrative testimony (although apparently before he has said everything he
wants to say), the arbitrator turns to the defendant and immediately asks him
to address this point (line 4). The defendant responds by refuting the accusa-
tion, claiming that the claimant’s son gave him access to the car (lines 10–11).
18 Interpreter: a:nd we collided +
19 Claimant: (.) èto vsë
{‘That’s all.’}
20 Interpreter: [And that’s it!]
21 Arbitrator: [Did you have] a stop sign?
(6)
1 Arbitrator: (3.3) Okay? (1.0) now we will hear from (.) Sergei.
2 Interpreter: Teper’ Sergei budet govorit’.
{‘Now Sergei will talk’}
3 Claimant: A èto  [ne nado?] {stands up holding documents}
{‘And is this not needed?’}
4 Arbitrator: [Were you] authorized to drive the car?
5 Interpreter: I’ve got- (.) Excuse me I’ve got some receipts as well
Speak English or What?
54
The testimony of defendants is thus largely driven by questions raised
by the preceding testimony of claimants. While a defendant’s testimony may
have a narrative character in some parts, especially if the defendant wants to
present an alternative version of the events in question, it nevertheless has to
be understood inherently as a response to the claimant’s testimony. As a con-
sequence, the claimant’s testimony can be considered the most central part of
the hearing. The claimant has the burden of proof, and in small claims court,
part of that proof consists of presenting a coherent narrative. If the claimant
does so, the defendant has the opportunity to refute it. But if the claimant
does not present a coherent narrative, the defendant’s response is essentially
immaterial. This is especially true of so-called inquests, preliminary hear-
ings that are held if the claimant is in court but the defendant is absent. If the
claimant’s testimony does not convince the arbitrator, the case is dismissed
without the defendant needing to appear. If an inquest is decided in favor of
the claimant, the defendant is allowed to appeal and bring the case to a trial
or arbitration hearing.
Unsuccessful narratives
As noted above, arbitrators frequently use the term story to refer to a liti-
gant’s testimony as a whole, particularly when they are signaling the end of
a macro turn (I have heard everybody’s story), and “fast” arbitrators may do
so even if the litigant wants to continue testifying, as shown in excerpt (6).
However, not all disputes lend themselves to being narrated in court in this
required manner. This is illustrated in excerpt (7), from a case brought by
a Polish-speaking mechanic against a garage owner who had also been his
6 Arbitrator: (1.2) Sit down please. {to claimant}
7 Interpreter: Prisjad’te [(požalujsta)]
{‘sit down (please)’}
8 Arbitrator: [I’ll look at them] in a little while=
9 Interpreter: =Ja posmotrju na èti kvitancii.
{‘I will look at the bills’}
10 Defendant: (.) Mne dal mašinu vodit’ ètogo čeloveka syn
{‘This man’s son gave me the car to drive’}
11 i ja ètu mašinu vodil očen’ často
{‘and I drove this car very often’}
12 Interpreter: (.7) What happened was (.) I was provided with the vehicle this-
13 by the /son of this person
14 (.) and I used to /drive this uh car pretty often.
55
“I’ve heard your story:” How arbitrators decide
landlord. The dispute is presented to the court as a list of accusations regard-
ing missing property (and later counter-accusations by the defendant that the
claimant had stolen property from the job). The claimant begins by stating
that his case is “about” missing items that include car parts, clothing, and
other personal belongings, some of which he had intended to send to Poland.
He appears nervous and agitated and speaks very fast and with few pauses, so
that the interpreter is struggling to keep up her translation (as evidenced by
her question in line 13 and her omission of the claimant’s speech in line 16).
In a lengthy exchange of over two minutes (too long to be discussed in detail
here), the arbitrator repeatedly expresses confusion about the claim and asks
questions for clarification, but the claimant’s responses continue to confuse
her. At the point shown at the beginning of excerpt (7), the arbitrator halts
the testimony for the second time and appeals (indirectly) to the interpreter
by speaking about the claimant in the third person (line 3). Now the claimant
seems to be confused, too (line 10). Apparently he doesn’t understand why
he keeps being asked what the case is about, when he has already testified for
a while. He presents new information, namely that the defendant threw him
out of the house and locked him out, thereby taking his belongings from him
(lines 7 and 9) and leaving him without a place to sleep (line 14). However,
this does not resolve the arbitrator’s confusion (see line 18), which appears to
result from her inability to classify the case according to the common case
categories (see Chapter 2). The dispute seems to involve a (possibly dam-
aged) car, an apartment, missing belongings, and work that was done by the
claimant, so it could fall into any of the major case categories. The arbitrator
makes this need for classification explicit when she asks What is the relation-
ship between these two people? (lines 20 and 21). As before, she is again refer-
ring to the claimant in the third person rather than addressing him.
(7)
1 Arbitrator: (3.0) Let’s start all over again
2 Interpreter: (1.7) Jeszcze [raz zacznijmy]
{‘Let’s start one more time’}
3 Arbitrator:        [I am confused] about what he is complainting
[about]
4
5 Interpreter: [O co] chodzi?
{‘What is it about?’)
6 Do czego dotyczy Pana skarga? (.) Mówił Pan
{‘What is your claim about? Say it.’}
7 Claimant: wyrzucił mnie z domu, [zablokował mi zamki=]
{‘he threw me out of the house, blocked the locks’}
8 Interpreter: [He threw me out +]
9 Claimant: =wziął mi moje ciuchy, przywłaszczył sobie, no wszystko,
{‘took my clothes, claimed possession, well, everything’}
Speak English or What?
56
Instead of translating the arbitrator’s question about the relationship
between the claimant and the defendant, the court interpreter, who is an ex-
perienced staff interpreter, steps out of her institutionally proscribed role
and reprimands the claimant for the way in which he presents his testimony
(lines 19 and 22), which she characterizes by alluding to a Polish idiom about
“talking out of one’s ass” (line 28). As can be seen in lines 24–26, and 28,
she then proceeds to give the claimant instructions as to what a proper tes-
timony ought to be like. According to her, it should refer to specific dated
events (stało się to i to, tego i tego dnia ‘this and this happened, this and this
day’ in line 26), given in order (po kolei, line 25), and explain why the events
happened and what their consequences were (przyczyna, skutek ‘the reason,
10 no jak- no- no jak o co chodzi?
{‘well what, well, well what (do you think) it’s about?’}
11 Interpreter: Uh (0.9) he claimed uh possession of my personal belongings,
12 he threw me out from his office he-
13 {to claimant} (.) eh, co zmienił zamki?
{‘What, he changed the locks?’}
14 Claimant: No tak zmienił. [Nie miałem gdzie spać, nie miałem=]
{‘Sure, he changed it. I had nowhere to sleep.’}
15 Interpreter: [He changed the locks=]
16 Claimant: =[żadnego wajhera i musiałem się-]
{‘I didn’t have skeleton key, I had to --’}
17 Interpreter: =[I had no place to] sleep.
18 Arbitrator: (4.4) I am still confused
19 Interpreter: (.6) Jak będziemy [tak rozmawiali to do północy]=
{‘if we keep on talking like this, until midnight’}
20 Arbitrator: [What is the relationship between]=
21 =[these two people?]
22 Interpreter: =[stąd nie wyjdziemy]
{‘we won’t leave’}
23 Claimant: =[No dobrze, dobrze, no] to ja [powiem-]
{‘Okay okay, I’ll say it’}
24 Interpreter: [Niech Pan] powie o co chodzi
po /kolei,
25
{‘Say what it is about, in order’}
26 (.) stało się to i to, tego i  [tego dnia-]
{‘this and this happened, on this and this day’}
27 Claimant: [Dobrze], dobrze.
{‘Okay okay’}
28 Interpreter: przyczyna, skutek, a nie od, (.) że tak powiem czego strony.
{‘the reason, the outcome, and not from, let me say, what part’}
57
“I’ve heard your story:” How arbitrators decide
the outcome’ in line 28). In requesting this type of testimony, the interpreter
gives voice to the institutional preference for what Conley and O’Barr (1990)
term “rule-oriented discourse”—that is, testimony given “in chronologi-
cal sequence” and “without . . . interjections of background information”
(p. 63). The example shows how interpreters may align with the institution
and may participate in establishing, maintaining, and communicating insti-
tutional norms to LOTE-speaking litigants (though ironically here by break-
ing the professional norms of court interpreting that prohibit interpreters
from speaking on their own; see also Angermeyer in press). The interpreter’s
comment in lines 19 and 22 (do północy stąd nie wyjdziemy ‘we won’t leave
until midnight’) also illustrates how court staff are explicitly concerned with
the duration of proceedings. The role of interpreters and the stances they take
toward other participants will be discussed further in Chapter 4.
After this reprimand by the interpreter, the arbitrator reiterates her ques-
tion, which had been left untranslated: “What is the relationship between
/him and /him?” (line 2 of excerpt (8)). This question prompts the claimant to
say that he used to work for the defendant (lines 4 and 6, interpreter’s trans-
lation in 8). The arbitrator then decides to categorize the case as a dispute
between employer and employee (line 9), and she voices her disapproval about
the fact that this could not be done earlier (line 14). Note that, in keeping with
the labels commonly used in court (see Chapter 2), the arbitrator names the
employer first, even though it is the employee who is suing.
(8)
1 Arbitrator: Ah co- could we go back for a second? (.)
2 What is the relationship [between /him and /him?] {pointing at
litigants}
3 Interpreter: [Jaki jest związek między wami?]
{‘What are the relations between you?’}
4 Claimant: Żaden. Pracowałem u tego-
{‘None. I worked at this’}
5 Interpreter: No relationship
6 Claimant: u tego pana [pracowałem przede wszystkim. Żadnego związku
nie ma.]
7
{‘I worked, I mostly worked for this man.’}
8 Interpreter: [I just worked for him, that’s it]
9 Arbitrator: Ah!  [/employer employee!]
10 Interpreter: [No other relation]
11 (.) Czyli pracodawca pracownik, tak?
{‘That is employer–employee, yes?’}
12 Claimant: (.) No tak.
{‘But of course.’}
13 Interpreter: (.) [Yeah]
Speak English or What?
58
Following this categorization of the case as an “employer–employee”
dispute, the arbitrator elicits testimony from the claimant through a se-
quence of closed questions about his work, residence, and ownership of
missing items, reverting to addressing the claimant instead of speaking
about him (see line 16). When she is finally satisfied with the claimant’s tes-
timony, she comments I think I have the story and gives the floor to the de-
fendant, asking him, Now, what’s your version of the story? These examples
show again that a claimant is expected to present as testimony a chrono-
logical narrative of events, which accuse the defendant of legally relevant
behavior that has resulted in a financial loss for the claimant. Evidently, the
claimant in excerpts (7) and (8) struggles to frame his grievances in such a
way, as the arbitrator keeps interrupting him as long as his testimony fails
to conform to the required format. Like the interpreter, the arbitrator ap-
pears to blame the claimant for this problem, as suggested by her comment
that was like pulling teeth in excerpt (8), as well as by other comments made
throughout the hearing that are not included in the excerpts. This view of the
testimony as resulting from the claimant’s incompetence lends itself to an
analysis along the lines of the rules-versus-relationship model of courtroom
discourse proposed by Conley and O’Barr (1990), particularly if contrasted
with that of the Russian-speaking driver in excerpt (5). In this model, the
Russian-speaking claimant can be described as a rule-oriented litigant who
presents a highly factual account in chronological order, which states pre-
cise locations and does not include any extraneous information. Conley and
O’Barr (1990:66) note that such a “rule-oriented account articulates better
with the agenda of the law,” so it is not surprising that the testimony is ac-
cepted by the arbitrator. The Polish-speaking claimant in excerpts (7) and
(8), on the other hand, can be characterized as giving a relational account,
which describes the dispute in terms of social relations rather than legal
rules. This includes information that is “significant to [his] social situation,
but . . . irrelevant to the court’s more limited and rule-centered agenda”
(p. 61). Note for example his comments in excerpt (7) that he had “nowhere
to sleep” after the defendant “threw him out of the house” and “changed
the locks.” Moreover, the claimant also speaks as if assuming shared knowl-
edge of events and places (see, e.g., no jak o co chodzi? ‘well what do you
think it’s about?’ in line 10 of excerpt (7)). Conley and O’Barr (1990) view
these contrasting approaches as resulting form personal characteristics of
individual litigants and as related to social class and gender. In particular,
14 Arbitrator: [That] was like pulling teeth. (0.9) Okay.
15 Interpreter: (.7) Gorzej niż wyrywanie zębów.
{‘worse than pulling teeth’}
16 Arbitrator: (.) When did you (come) to work for him?
59
“I’ve heard your story:” How arbitrators decide
they argue that rule orientation can be “characterized as an acquired skill
which is the property of the literate and educated business and legal class”
(p. 80). However, one reason why the testimony in excerpt (5) above is more
rule-oriented than that in excerpts (7) and (8) lies arguably in the fact that
the dispute lends itself better to being narrated in a rule-oriented manner.
In cases about car accidents, as in excerpt (5), there is typically no personal
relationship between the litigants, so their accounts are less likely to in-
volve elements that an arbitrator would view as legally irrelevant. Moreover,
blame in car accidents is routinely assigned in a rule-oriented manner even
outside the courtroom, based on a lack of adherence to the rules of the road.
By contrast, the case in excerpts (7) and (8) results from a complex relation-
ship between the litigants, which cannot simply be ignored for the purpose
of a rule-oriented account. This suggests that the rule-versus-relationship
continuum is not simply a matter of discourse styles but also a question of
the type of dispute being discussed.
Despite the difficulties experienced by the claimant in excerpts (7)
and (8), he is ultimately able to present his case and to convince the ar-
bitrator that it has merit. Arguably, this occurred because the arbitrator
was willing to overcome her initial frustration and to take the initiative of
eliciting testimony through closed questions, rather than to rely solely on
the claimant’s own narrative. In doing so, she demonstrates a degree of
patience that is not shared by all arbitrators (although she is not a typical
“slow” arbitrator in all respects, such as in her treatment of the consent
procedure). More often, LOTE-speaking litigants who gave relational ac-
counts did not get multiple opportunities to “start all over again.” Instead,
impatient arbitrators were more likely to ignore such testimony and dis-
miss the claims as fraudulent. This is illustrated in excerpts (9) through
(11) from a case with a Spanish-speaking tenant who sued the company
that owned her building for costs she had incurred after they had sued her
for nonpayment of rent (allegedly in error). The tenant, an elderly woman,
came to court accompanied by her adult son, who sometimes spoke on
her behalf but also acted as interpreter, alternating with or parallel to the
professional court interpreter. Like the claimant in excerpts (7) and (8),
she appeared quite nervous and agitated, and when she gave testimony,
she spoke very quickly, failing to pause to allow the interpreter to translate
consecutively. Her testimony begins in excerpt (9), where she complains
about having been sued by the landlord and states that she can prove that
she had always paid the rent (lines 6–8). She then states that an attorney
whom she hired determined that the landlord’s case was closed. While it
is not clear yet what she wants to say further, she seems to express a gen-
eral dissatisfaction with the landlord, whom she accuses of intentionally
making things difficult for her (she had to hire someone, line 13; she has to
fight just to get a lease, line 16).
Speak English or What?
60
When the claimant stops talking, the interpreter begins by translating
the complaint about the landlord having sued the claimant. This confuses
the arbitrator (a “fast” arbitrator), since she is the claimant in the case at
hand, and he interrupts the interpreter and prevents her from continuing her
translation. Similar to the arbitrator in excerpt (7) above, the arbitrator here
(9)
1 Arbitrator: Okay (.) go ahead. (How ‘bout-) tell her so she’ll explain to me=
2 Son: =Díle a ella (.) que ella va a ir traduciendo a él
{‘tell her [the court interpreter] so that she can translate it to him’}
3 Claimant: (.) [Aha]
4 Son: [todo] lo que tú quieres decirle [(al interpre-)]
{‘everything that you want to tell her to the int-’]
5 Claimant: [Lo único que]
{‘the only thing that’}
6 quiero decirle es que a mi me han traído a la corte
{‘I want to tell him/her is that they took me to court,’}
7 (y ya de todo eso que no puedo xxx)
{‘and I cannot xxx all of this’}
8 yo no nunca le he debido y tengo todas mis pruebas
{‘I never owed them and I have all my proofs’}
9 he ido a abogados y todo y el abogado (xxx)
{‘I went to lawyers and all and the lawyer xxx’}
10 al que fui hace unos días (.8) pidió los- los records de acá
{‘where I went a few days ago, asked for the records from there’}
11 (.) y dijeron que el caso estaba cerrado y él comprobó que
{‘they said the case was closed and he proved that’}
12 yo no debo y entonces (.6) ya yo no quiero que me-
{‘I don’t owe and so I don’t want anymore that they . . . to me’}
13 yo tengo que buscar gente para (.) pa/gar
{‘I have to find people to pay (for money)’}
14 Son: [¡Sí!]
{‘Yes’}
15 Claimant: [para] que me traigan.
{‘for them to take me’}
16 (1.0) ¿Hasta para conseguir el lease mío (.) tuve que /pagar?
{‘I have to pay just to get my lease’}
17 Interpreter: (.7) I- (1.2) I don’t know why they are bringing me to court,
18 [because I don’t (owe-)]
19 Arbitrator: [They’re not bringing you-] you’re- you’re here- no no
20 Let’s start this way /You're bringing /them to court.
21 You have to explain to me /why you are suing /them /here.
61
“I’ve heard your story:” How arbitrators decide
also requests a new “start” to the testimony, asking her to explain why she is
suing the defendant (lines 19–21). In subsequent turns that are not shown, the
claimant more or less repeats her testimony, and the arbitrator understands
that she was sued first. However, after a few more turns in which the claim-
ant and her son talk about what happened after she got sued (she felt abused,
she fell on her way to consulting legal aid, it caused her stress, she went to see
a psychiatrist), the arbitrator turns the floor over to the defendant (an agent
who is representing the building owner), as shown in excerpt (10). By asking
the defendant to “fill in” what he evidently perceives to be the gaps in the
claimant’s testimony (line 10), the arbitrator is signaling that he no longer ex-
pects the claimant to give relevant testimony, and in contrast to the arbitrator
in excerpts (7) and (8) above, he is not prepared to elicit such testimony from
her through closed questions. Instead the arbitrator relies on the defendant to
explain the claim, although it goes without saying that a defendant’s take on
the dispute is not an adequate substitute for the claimant’s testimony.
Following excerpt (10), the defendant explains her position that the case
should be dismissed, because in her view all problems have been resolved
after the first lawsuit in housing court. According to her, the tenant had
owed money at one point, although she speculates that this may have been
because of problems with rent subsidy payments. She also mentions repairs
that were made to the apartment as a result of the housing court stipulation.
(It should be noted that Section 8 rent subsidies require apartments to pass an
(10)
1 Claimant: [Esto es un abuso (co- coxxx)]
{‘this is an abuse xxx’}
2 Interpreter: [and then I went to see a psy]chiatrist
3 and I [(xxx it) I can’t=]
4 Claimant: [Ya no lo consiento]
{‘I can’t take it anymore.’}
5 Interpreter: take anymore. I can’t take it.
6 Arbitrator: [Okay]
7 Interpreter: [This is] an abuse that they’re doing=
8 Arbitrator: [=Okay]
9 Son: [That’s] right
10 Arbitrator: (.) Okay, so why- why don’t you fill me in here?
11 Defendant: (2.0) The reason why I’m here is that (1.6) to: (2.2) I was
12 thinking about that this case have no reason to be here.
13 Because when we sue her [it was-]
14 Arbitrator: [Yeah why] don’t you explain
15 from your side
Speak English or What?
62
inspection, so it is possible that the delay of subsidy payments resulted from
the landlord’s failure to conduct required repairs in time.) On several occa-
sions during the defendant’s testimony, the claimant tries to interrupt and
refute the defendant’s claims, speaking in Spanish. For example, as shown
in excerpt (11), she denies the defendant’s claim about her “falling behind
in rent” and she is prepared to show evidence (hubo el cheque ‘there was the
check’ in line 3). However, the interpreter does not translate her comments
into English (nor does she translate the defendant’s English statements) but
instead tells her to be quiet and let the defendant speak (line 6). As in excerpt
(7) above, this shows again how interpreters may align with the goals and
policies of the court and participate in managing litigants who act in ways
they deem inappropriate.
(11)
1 Defendant: She start falling-  [falling behind in the rent+]
2 Claimant: [Todas mis rentas- todas mis rentas]
{‘all my rents, all my rents’}
3 han sido pagadas los días tres (.)  [hubo el] cheque
{‘were paid on the third of the month, there was the check’}
4 Defendant: [and +]
5 Claimant: y la prueba la tienen ellos.
{‘and they have the proof’}
6 Interpreter: Señora, tiene que dejar que ella hable.
{‘Ma’am, you have to let her talk’}
Despite being largely ignored by the other participants, the claimant
continues to talk after this point, with only selective translation by the inter-
preter but with supportive comments in English by her son. In ways that cor-
respond again to Conley’s and O’Barr’s concept of relational orientation, she
complains about being treated disrespectfully by the building company, and
her son argues that “it is something personal.” Multiple times she repeats that
she didn’t owe them money, and she notes that one rent check was returned to
her in error (this apparently triggered the legal action from the landlord). Fi-
nally, she expresses her feeling that her landlord is purposely harassing her to
get her to vacate the apartment (Quieren mi apartamento para rentarlo ‘They
want my apartment to rent it out’) and that she wants them to stop bothering
her.12
This seems to be part of her motive for suing the landlord, along with
costs she claims to have incurred because of the landlord’s legal action (in-
cluding stress-related healthcare costs). While she may thus have a legitimate
grievance and a well-founded fear of losing her home, it does not easily trans-
late into a legally relevant story (i.e., into a demonstrable monetary claim).
63
“I’ve heard your story:” How arbitrators decide
After the hearing concluded, the arbitrator told me in an aside that he
thought the claimant’s claim was “bullshit,” and it appears that the inter-
preter shared this view. This attitude is reminiscent of Merry’s (1990:14)
observation that legal professionals who work in lower courts speak of “gar-
bage cases” or “junk cases” when disputes are marked by “ongoing relations
and mutual accusations” and involve cross-complaints. In their view, these
cases are “frivolous” lawsuits in which “people are simply ‘using’ the court
to fight with each other.” While this claim against a building company differs
from the interpersonal cases described by Merry, the claimant does frame
the dispute in personal terms (e.g., complaining about “abuse” and lack of
“respect”), and she displays emotion as she blames the company for “driv-
ing her crazy” to the point where she can’t “take it anymore” (see line 4 of
excerpt (10)). The arbitrator’s reaction is clearly parallel to the attitudes of
court staff in Merry’s study, who view “garbage cases” as cases “in which
people seem crazy or irrational” (p. 14). His attitude was also similar to that
of other arbitrators I observed during my fieldwork. Several of the “fast”
arbitrators were prepared to characterize litigants as “not making sense”
if they failed to present a compelling “story” in the brief time the arbitra-
tor was willing to listen to them. This was especially common with LOTE-
speaking litigants. As will be shown in Chapter 5, some arbitrators displayed
considerable impatience with LOTE-speaking litigants, for example by fre-
quently interrupting the interpreter before a question or statement was fully
translated or by withdrawing LOTE speaker’s speaking rights altogether.
That chapter will explore in more detail how interpreting alters the ability of
litigants to “tell a story” and consequently to gain understanding and inspire
empathy from arbitrators.
In contrast to “fast” arbitrators like the arbitrator in excerpts (9) to (11)
above, other arbitrators were willing to hear litigants out patiently, to elicit
testimony through questioning (as in excerpt (8)), or to explain procedural
or evidential requirements to LOTE-speaking litigants, especially during
preliminary inquest hearings. As noted in Chapter 2, these arbitrators also
tended to view the litigants’ actions in court in cultural terms. This was
particularly true of two Spanish-speaking arbitrators I observed in inquest
hearings with Spanish-speaking litigants who had failed to bring important
documents with them (e.g., a lease in a tenant–landlord case). These arbitra-
tors emphasized that, personally, they sympathized with the litigant’s posi-
tion, but that an “American” judge or arbitrator would likely not, absent the
necessary proof. Both arbitrators juxtaposed the two cultures by focusing on
what they saw as key concepts of dispute resolution, namely la ley (“the law”)
in the United States and la palabra (“the word (of honor)”) in Latin American
societies, thus echoing comments made by some Spanish-speaking litigants
(see Chapter 2).
Speak English or What?
64
The arbitrator’s decision
The differences between the arbitrators’ approaches were particularly pro-
nounced at the conclusion of hearings. As mentioned above, judges and arbi-
trators in New York small claims court don’t announce a decision at the end
of a hearing but instead tell litigants that the decision will be mailed to them.
Arbitrators typically come to a decision during the hearing, and they formalize
it in writing after the hearing has been concluded and the litigants have left the
room. As noted in the description of arbitrator styles at the beginning of this
chapter, “slow” arbitrators often try to broker a compromise between the liti-
gants instead of taking a unilateral decision (see excerpt (1)). But even if they do
not suggest a settlement or cannot broker one, they typically do not conclude a
hearing without asking litigants whether they have something to add. By con-
trast, “fast” arbitrators often conclude hearings by announcing that they have
gathered sufficient information to make a decision. Once they have done so,
they are usually unwilling to hear further testimony, even if litigants protest.
This is illustrated in excerpt (12) from a work-related case, a dispute between
a Spanish-speaking furniture salesman and his former boss, who was speak-
ing Russian. The claimant was suing for sales commissions that he claimed
the defendant owed him. During his testimony, the claimant showed sales re-
ceipts, contracts, and checks, and he convinced the arbitrator that he had in
fact made the sales for which he wanted to receive a commission. When it was
his turn to speak, the defendant agreed that the sales had been made, but when
he wanted to explain why the claimant had not been paid the commission,
he repeatedly got cut off by the arbitrator. According to the defendant, his
ex-employee’s monetary claim was offset by several factors: The claimant had
given discounts at his own discretion (which should reduce the amount of the
commission); he had been given a company car, which he had not yet returned;
and finally, he was fired when the boss discovered that he was issuing checks to
himself. However, as the defendant tried to make these points in Russian, he
kept being interrupted by the arbitrator, and as a consequence the interpreter
translated only parts of this testimony. In excerpt (12), the arbitrator declares
that the hearing is over (lines 1, 5, 9), but at this point, significant parts of the
defendant’s testimony have not yet been heard (i.e., translated into English).
(12)
1 Arbitrator: I’ll tell you what, the court has enough  [information +]
2 Interpreter S: [La corte tiene]
3 [bastante información +]
{‘the court has enough information’}
4 Interpreter R: [Ja polučil dosta-]  [-točno informacii +]
{‘I have obtained enough information’}
5 Arbitrator: [upon which to make] its decision.
65
“I’ve heard your story:” How arbitrators decide
As can be seen in lines 8 and 10, the defendant protests against the ar-
bitrator’s conclusion of the hearing and he claims that the claimant stole
money from him. The interpreter translates only the beginning of his ob-
jection (I’m not finished yet, line 12), as she is interrupted by the arbitrator
and then translates the arbitrator’s reaction into Russian (Ja zakončil ‘I’m
finished’ in line 15) instead of finishing her translation of the defendant’s tes-
timony. Consequently, the accusation of theft is not translated (see Chapter
5 on the tendency of interpreters to give preference to the arbitrator when
several speakers compete for the floor). The arbitrator continues with his
concluding remarks, and the claimant and the Spanish interpreter leave. The
hearing thus ends without the defendant having had the opportunity to say
everything he had come to say (èto ne vsë ‘that’s not all,’ lines 8 and 10). This
experience echoes that of many witnesses and litigants in other studies of
courtroom talk. Merry (1990:134) states that litigants complain about being
rushed by the judges, who don’t take the time to listen to their stories. Conley
and O’Barr (1998:67) note that a frequent complaint of witnesses in formal
courts is “I never got a chance to tell my story,” and they report that many
litigants in their small claims court study are similarly frustrated after their
hearings. Conley and O’Barr (1990:128) argue that to many litigants, telling
the story of their dispute is equally important or even more important than
the legal outcome itself. In their view, narration has a therapeutic function,
and it enables litigants to seek validation from the judge (p. 130). The notion
6 Interpreter S: para  [hacer la decisión]
{‘to make a decision’}
7 Interpreter R: [(xxx rešenie)]
{‘xxx decision.’}
8 Defendant: [No- no èto ne vsë!]
{‘But- but that’s not all!’}
9 Arbitrator: You’ll be hearing  [from the court +]
10 Defendant: [èto ne vsë, on] ukral u nas den’gi=
{‘But, that’s not all, he stole money from
us.’}
11 Interpreter S: =[En una semana-]
{‘in a week’}
12 Interpreter R: =[I’m not fini-]shed yet
13 Arbitrator: Yes /I am!=
14 Interpreter S: =Sí, yo he terminado.
{‘Yes, I am finished’}
15 Interpreter R: [Ja zakončil]
{‘I’m finished’}
16 Arbitrator: [You’ll be hearing] from the court
17 within three to five business days Sir.
Speak English or What?
66
that many small claims litigants feel unable to “tell their story” is ironic given
that arbitrators frequently characterize the litigants’ testimony as a “story.”
However, arbitrators and litigants have divergent understandings of what
counts as a story in the context of the legal dispute. This is evident in excerpt
(13) with another “fast” arbitrator, who claims to have “heard the story,” even
as the defendant denies having told it. In response to the defendant’s protest
and plea to continue, she insists that he has told his story (line 5) and explains
that she considers his responses to her questions to constitute such a story
(line 7).
(13)
1 Arbitrator: Well, I said that I’ve heard everything
2 and I’ve heard the story that you’re telling-
3 Defendant: I- I haven’t told the story yet! May I please
4 [have] thirty seconds? =
5 Arbitrator: [I-]  =You /have!
6 Defendant: I haven’t!
7 Arbitrator: You /have when I’ve asked you the questions
Similarly to excerpt (6) above, the arbitrator in excerpt (13) had earlier
asked closed questions of the defendant, following the claimant’s narrative
testimony. Based on the evidence provided, she had apparently come to the
conclusion that the claimant’s case had no merit, and so she did not invite the
defendant to provide his own narrative. Court records show that the arbitra-
tor decided in favor of the defendant, but, as the decision is not announced in
court, the defendant nonetheless leaves frustrated for not having been able to
say what he came to say. Conley and O’Barr (1990:128) discuss a very compa-
rable case, where a plaintiff feels disrespected by a judge who ended her hear-
ing after two minutes, while the judge justifies his decision by saying that “we
don’t have time to get involved with all these details. She got her judgment. . . .
She got everything she wanted.”
The examples suggest that the distinction between “fast” and “slow” ar-
bitrators is not just a question of the arbitrator’s style of leading proceed-
ings but relates to their understanding of the law. This corresponds again
to the findings of studies by Conley and O’Barr (1990) and Philips (1998),
which show that the manner in which judges interact with litigants correlates
strongly with their ideologies about the law. The legal ideology of “fast” ar-
bitrators became particularly apparent in the case of the Russian-speaking
defendant shown above. Following excerpt (12), when the arbitrator has an-
nounced that the hearing is over, the claimant and the Spanish interpreter
leave the room, but the defendant continues to speak to the arbitrator. He
reiterates his accusation that the claimant stole money from him by issuing
checks to himself, and this time the accusation is translated by the Russian
67
“I’ve heard your story:” How arbitrators decide
interpreter. However, as can be seen in excerpt (13), the arbitrator claims that
this fact is not relevant to the case, and tells the defendant that he should file
a lawsuit of his own against the claimant.
(14)
1 Arbitrator: He’s suing  [you Sir]
2 Interpreter R: [On sudit] vas
{‘He is suing you.’}
3 Arbitrator: Here  [the court makes a decision] on /that issue=
4 Interpreter R: [I po ètomu vopros (xxx)]
{‘and on this question’}
5 Arbitrator: =Now if [you-] he stole money [from you you have to sue /him]
6 Interpreter R: [I] [esli on ukral den’gi ]
  {‘and  if he stole money’}
7 u [vas, vy možete sudit’ ego=]
{‘from you, you can sue him,
8 Arbitrator: [for your return of your funds=]
9 Interpreter R: [=dlja togo čtoby on vernul vaši den’gi]
(‘so that he returns your money’}
10 Arbitrator: [=That’s not the issue before this court at this] time
11 Interpreter R: No v dannyj moment èto  [ne vopros pered sudom]
{‘but at the moment, this is not the question before the court’}
12 Arbitrator: [The court is adjourned] {hits
mallet on bench}
The arbitrator’s comments suggest his motivation for concluding the
hearing before the defendant has “told his story.” Evidently, he has a rather
narrow view of what the case is about, as he considers only evidence that
relates to the claimant’s claim about sales commissions but disregards any
further information about the relationship between the litigants. This narrow
approach to the case puts him in the position to make a quick decision as
soon as the defendant acknowledges that the claimant had in fact made sales
without receiving a commission. This approach of “fast” arbitrators shown in
excerpts (12) and (13) combines features of two of the five types of judges that
Conley and O’Barr (1990) distinguish in their ethnography of small claims
courts, namely the “strict adherent to the law” and the “proceduralist,” which
can both be characterized as highly rule-oriented approaches (pp. 107–109).
Like the “strict adherent to the law,” “fast” arbitrators view “the law as a set
of inflexible neutral principles” and devote very little time to each case (p. 85).
Like the “proceduralist,” they place “a high priority on procedural regularity”
(p. 101), although they don’t devote time to explaining the procedure. The ar-
bitrator in excerpts (12) and (14) also corresponds to the “proceduralist” type
by speaking of himself as “the court” (compare Conley & O’Barr 1990:106).
Speak English or What?
68
Clearly, the approach of fast arbitrators runs counter to the notion of small
claims court as a venue for informal justice where decisions are reached “on
the basis of substantive law” (Yngvesson & Hennessey 1975:223). Given the
arbitrator’s suggestion that the defendant should countersue the claimant for
a refund of the stolen money (lines 5 and 8), a substantive approach would ar-
guably have sought to factor the defendant’s arguments into any calculations
of possible payments to the claimant (instead of expecting ­
cross-complaints
and then awarding money to both parties). This example suggests that “fast”
arbitrators are able to hear cases quickly because they make decisions that
follow from procedural rules, but leave no room for the consideration of
other circumstances in the dispute. When claims do not lend themselves to
a simple application of such rules, they are likely to be dismissed for “not
making sense.” While it is difficult to assess the factors that influence legal
outcomes, it does appear that “fast” arbitrators are considerably more likely
to dismiss a claim than are “slow” arbitrators (see Chapter 7). As noted above,
LOTE-speaking litigants are more likely to have their cases decided by these
“fast” arbitrators because court staff are concerned about the amount of time
taken up by interpreting. This case assignment policy thus affects the legal
outcomes for litigants who rely on interpreters, independent of the process of
interpreting. The consequences of interpreting itself will be explored in the
following chapters, beginning with the discussion of the role of interpreters
in Chapter 4, before investigating the consequences of language choice and of
the distribution of interpreting modes in Chapter 5 and of codeswitching in
Chapter 6.
69
4
Only translating? The role of the interpreter
The previous two chapters introduced the two main groups of participants in
small claims proceedings: the litigants who bring disputes to court, and the
arbitrators who hear these cases and make decisions about them. However, in
the hearings that were the focus of this study, the interaction between these
participants was mediated by court interpreters. Drawing on interviews and
on the analysis of transcription excerpts, this chapter describes who these
interpreters are, how they view their role in the courtroom, and how they
position themselves toward other participants. Combined with a review of
legal interpreting guidelines and documents published by the court system,
the chapter describes the court policies that give rise to common practices of
court interpreting and identifies the language ideologies that form their basis.
The findings will then also inform the analyses in Chapters 5 and 6, which ex-
plore in detail how interpreter-mediated court proceedings differ from ones
conducted in a single language, and how interpreters react to the litigants’ use
of codeswitching to English.
In examining the language use of interpreters, I will focus on a particu-
lar linguistic variable, namely on variation in the way interpreters represent
the voice of the person they are translating (cf. Angermeyer 2009). As will be
shown, this variation relates strongly to the interpreters’ understanding of
their own role and of the task of court interpreting. In ways that can be seen
as parallel to the approaches of arbitrators described in Chapter 3, it is shown
that the interpreters’ choices have consequences for the ability of speakers
of a language other than English (LOTE) to participate in the proceedings.
Some interpreters primarily emphasize adherence to court rules and model
their translations as closely as possible after the respective input. By contrast,
other interpreters focus on facilitating communication between LOTE speak-
ers and the court and make translation choices designed to enhance mutual
comprehension. Depending on the pragmatic context, these two approaches
Speak English or What?
70
may be compatible, but often they are not, as will be demonstrated below. In
describing this variation, I will follow common practice in translation studies
in using the term source to describe the input for the interpreter and target to
describe the corresponding output that the interpreter or translator produces
(Toury 1995; Vinay & Darbelnet 1995). I will use source speaker to refer to the
participant who provides the input for the interpreter and target recipient to
refer to the participant for whom the output is produced.
The analysis in this chapter will draw on research on court interpret-
ing (Berk-Seligson 1990; Morris 1995; Kadric 2001; Hale 2004; Shlesinger &
Pöchhacker 2008; and others) but also on studies of interpreting in face-
to-face interaction more generally, variously termed dialogue interpreting or
liaison interpreting (Pöchhacker 2004:16). Research on dialogue interpreting
has been conducted in a variety of settings besides court interpreting, in par-
ticular in medical interviews (Wadensjö 1998; Davidson 2000; Angelelli 2004;
Meyer 2004) but also in other institutional settings, such as police interroga-
tions (Wadensjö 1998; Berk-Seligson 2009) and asylum interviews (Inghilleri
2003; Jacquemet 2005a; Maryns 2013), as well as nonprofessional interpret-
ing in a variety of contexts (Knapp & Knapp-Potthoff 1985; Müller 1989;
Valdés 2003; Reynolds & Orellana 2009). While some aspects of interpreting
are context-specific, others transcend their particular setting, most notably
the organization of turn taking and the contrast between the modes of con-
secutive and simultaneous interpreting. Also, in contrast to written transla-
tion or conference interpreting, where translation is unidirectional, dialogue
interpreters translate in both directions.
Court interpreters
During my fieldwork in small claims court, I observed 66 different interpret-
ers for 27 different languages. I recorded a total of 17 interpreters, seven for
Spanish (out of 17 observed), three each for Russian (6 observed), Polish (4),
and Haitian Creole (4), as well as one interpreter for Romanian who translated
in a hearing with two interpreters (the other one speaking Haitian Creole). In-
terpreting for each of the four targeted languages was observed at each of the
three courthouses. During my fieldwork, I spoke with many interpreters while
waiting after the calendar call or between hearings. I had the opportunity to
ask many of them about their experience and training as court interpreters, as
well as about their personal background. Some of them had worked as court
interpreters for over a decade, while others had started only very recently.
Nearly all were native speakers of the LOTE they were interpreting (except if
they worked in more than one LOTE).1
Almost all spoke English as a second
language, some of them with markedly nonnative syntax and phonology.
Many were first-generation immigrants from the same countries or regions
71
Only translating? The role of the interpreter
as the litigants for whom they translated, but unlike many litigants, they were
often university-educated and had a higher proficiency in English.2
In addition to speaking with interpreters in court, I also interviewed court
administrators and interpreter supervisors in order to better understand
the legal and institutional context of court interpreting in New York small
claims courts. I also consulted official documents about interpreting, such
as the brochure Court Interpreting in New York: A Plan of Action published
by the New York Unified Court System (2006), which details the institutional
policies under which interpreters are examined, trained, and supervised. All
court interpreters in New York state are required to undergo training and
qualifying examinations, but these differ based on the languages they speak.
The court system has developed testing materials for the assessment of court
interpreters for a number of frequently requested languages. To be hired as
Spanish interpreters, candidates are required to pass a competitive exami-
nation that tests their language proficiency in both English and Spanish, as
well as their ability to translate in writing and to interpret in consecutive and
simultaneous modes, into both English and Spanish. The oral component
is audiorecorded, and all parts are then evaluated by a group of bilingual
experts. Successful candidates are then ranked to enable the court system
to hire the most qualified ones. Similar examinations exist for other lan-
guages as well, but candidates are not ranked, as the test is evaluated only on
a pass/fail basis. At the time of my fieldwork, the court system had developed
such examinations for 11 languages other than Spanish: Arabic, Cantonese,
Greek, Haitian Creole, Korean, Italian, Mandarin, Polish, Portuguese, Rus-
sian, and Vietnamese (thus including all languages included in this study).
Since 2006, similar exams have also been developed for Albanian, Bengali,
Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian, French, Hebrew, Hindi, Japanese, Punjabi, Urdu,
and Wolof (New York State Unified Court System 2011:4). Interpreters for
other languages are assessed only in their proficiency in English but do not
take language-specific exams in interpreting or written translation.
The different types of testing that exist for specific languages parallel
differences in employment status and working conditions. Depending on the
demand for their language(s) in a given area, court interpreters may be full-
time employees of the court system, or they may be hired as freelancers (per
diem). Each courthouse has full-time court interpreters on staff to interpret
those languages that are regularly needed. For example, during my field-
work, the Brooklyn civil court had eight staff interpreters for Spanish, two
for Haitian Creole, and one each for Russian, Polish, Cantonese, Mandarin,
Arabic, Hebrew and Yiddish, and interpreting for most of these languages
was available weekly in small claims court (see Chapter 2). When interpreters
were needed for other languages, they had to be ordered through the Office
of Interpreting Services. As a consequence of such patterns of interpreting
demand, many interpreters for Spanish are staff interpreters who work at
Speak English or What?
72
a single courthouse. When they work in small claims court, they typically
work in a quick succession of hearings but still may not be able to fulfill the
demand. By contrast, interpreters for other languages are on staff only if the
language is spoken widely in the area served by the court. When these staff
interpreters work in small claims court, they typically do not have more than
two or three cases per session, and sometimes just one. While they are based
in a particular courthouse, they may need to work in others as well (for ex-
ample, the Russian and Polish interpreters from Brooklyn also interpreted
in the Queens civil court). Finally, interpreters for less commonly requested
languages are usually hired on a per diem basis (especially those who have
not had language-specific testing). They work in many different courthouses
and are rarely involved in more than one case per court session. Of the inter-
preters I recorded, the Spanish interpreters were all staff members, whereas
I recorded both staff and per diem interpreters for the other three languages.
The more frequent the need for interpreting in a given language at
a particular courthouse, the more likely it is that the court interpreter is an ex-
perienced and well-qualified professional who is available at regularly sched-
uled court dates. For example, a litigant requesting interpreting for Russian,
Polish, or Haitian Creole at the Brooklyn court would have a full-time staff
interpreter and would have his or her case scheduled for the next available
Tuesday (see Chapter 2). By contrast, a litigant requesting interpreting for
one of the same languages at the Manhattan court would likely encounter
a per diem interpreter who may be less experienced, and the scheduling of
the case would require coordination by the court administration. With lan-
guages that are rarely requested, scheduling may become a challenge if the
court has no qualified interpreters readily available (e.g., a case with a re-
quest for a Twi interpreter was rescheduled several times until an interpreter
had been found).
Despite these differences, all staff and per diem interpreters receive train-
ing on court procedures and on guidelines for ethical and professional con-
duct that have been adopted by the court (New York State Unified Court
System 2008). Furthermore, interpreters are subject to administrative super-
vision by senior interpreters and other court staff, and they are required to
adhere to a code of ethics with rules about appropriate behavior in court.3
This code emphasizes the need for interpreters to be impartial, to keep in-
formation confidential, and to refrain from giving legal advice. Most impor-
tantly, interpreters are required to “faithfully and accurately interpret what
is said without embellishment or omission, while preserving the language
level and/or register of the speaker” (p. 8). Moreover, the code stipulates that
interpreters are supposed to speak in the voice of the person whose words
they are interpreting, using first person to refer to him or her and using third
person if they need to speak for themselves (e.g. “Your Honor, the interpreter
cannot hear the witness,” p. 10). These guidelines are parallel to guidelines
73
Only translating? The role of the interpreter
for judicial interpreting in other jurisdictions in the United States and else-
where (compare, for example, Berk-Seligson 1990; Mikkelson 2000b; In-
ghilleri 2012), which similarly emphasize the importance of neutrality and
impartiality and treat them as inherently linked to translation accuracy (In-
ghilleri 2012:40). As will be argued further below, such guidelines are based
on language ideologies about translation, particularly on the assumption that
competent interpreters produce “verbatim” translations that are referentially
equivalent to their source, in keeping with the ideology of “referential trans-
parency” described by Haviland (2003).
By and large, court interpreters in small claims court were found to
adhere closely to the code of ethics and related guidelines. However, as court
interpreting in the United States has become more professionalized and in-
terpreter training more standardized in recent years, there appeared to be an
inverse correlation among staff interpreters between experience and profes-
sionalism (as defined by the court administration and professional organiza-
tions like the National Association of Judiciary Interpreters & Translators
[NAJIT]). Younger, less experienced staff interpreters appeared to be far
more likely to engage in recommended professional practices than were senior
interpreters. For example, one Spanish interpreter, who had been working
for less than a year, was the only interpreter I observed taking notes during
a hearing. Other younger interpreters were observed referring to themselves
in the third person (“the interpreter needs to clarify”) to reserve first-person
reference for the voice of the translated speaker (see above). By contrast, some
of the senior interpreters had a distinctive interpreting style and an asser-
tive demeanor that contrasted with guidelines (see Angermeyer 2009). Both
types of staff interpreters contrasted with per diem interpreters, for whom
court interpreting was not a routine activity, particularly those for rarely re-
quested languages. On one occasion, I observed a Pashto interpreter who was
in court for the first time and appeared to be unfamiliar with the norms of
professional interpreting, as she was consistently using reported speech when
translating into English.
Besides such differences in experience and training, interpreters also
vary in their attitudes toward the court and toward the other participants.
To a large degree, these differences correlate with an interpreter’s status in
court and with his or her language. In particular, the Spanish interpreters
stand apart from interpreters for other languages in that they are almost
always staff members at a particular courthouse and as such become more
involved with its organization. Some pursue careers in the court adminis-
tration, for example as clerks, or in the administration of interpreting ser-
vices.4
Furthermore, the high demand for Spanish interpreting at the courts
in Manhattan and Queens has consequences for the way interpreters inter-
act with individual litigants. Whereas interpreters for languages that are less
commonly requested have often only one case on a given evening and may
Speak English or What?
74
spend time waiting together with the litigants in question, Spanish interpret-
ers usually are very busy and are always involved in multiple hearings. As
a consequence, they often work together with a particular arbitrator and
process a quick succession of hearings, often five or more. In these cases, the
litigants have little or no opportunity to interact with the interpreter before
or after the hearing, and hearings begin with the question “who needs an
interpreter?” Instead, interpreters talk to the arbitrator before and after the
hearings, ranging from small talk to discussions of the legal merits of partic-
ular cases. Thus, Spanish interpreters and arbitrators often can be described
as what Goffman (1959:79) calls a “performance team,” as they “co-operate
in staging a single routine.”5
By contrast, interpreters for less frequently requested languages often
enter the courtroom together with the litigant. In these cases, there is little
or no communication between interpreter and arbitrator outside the hearing
itself, and the hearing may begin with the arbitrator’s question “who is the in-
terpreter?” In fact, I observed one incident in Queens in which a female court
officer got into a loud argument with a Romanian interpreter, apparently
because she had thought that the interpreter was a litigant who was over-
stepping the spatial boundaries between the public parts of the courtroom
and those that are off limits to litigants. By contrast, Spanish interpreters
and other staff interpreters were often on a first-name basis with court of-
ficers.6
In arbitration hearings, staff interpreters are more experienced than
arbitrators when it comes to understanding the workings of the court, and
they are prepared to point out procedural problems to them (see Angermeyer
to appear). This is illustrated in excerpt (1), from an inquest hearing with
a Spanish-speaking contractor suing a client for unpaid work. The defendant
has not come to court, so the arbitrator has briefly reviewed the claimant’s
evidence and is prepared to make a decision (which the defendant will be able
to appeal). As she starts to conclude the hearing, the Spanish interpreter asks
whether the claimant has self-addressed the envelope in which he is to receive
the judgment (line 2). When it becomes clear that the claimant has not yet
done so, the interpreter does not wait for the arbitrator to speak, but instead
he instructs the claimant himself (line 4) and explains the procedure to him
(lines 7–8). The arbitrator (who understands Spanish) does begin to give the
instructions herself (lines 5 and 6) but then abandons this attempt and lets
the interpreter finish.
(1)
1 Arbitrator: Okay, thank you very much, thank you for coming in,
2 Interpreter: (.) Did he write the envelope?
3 Arbitrator: (.) Oh yes, the envelope.
4 Interpreter: (.) Tiene que escribir por [favor su nombre y dirección =]
{‘You need to write please your name and address’}
75
Only translating? The role of the interpreter
5 Arbitrator: [If you can please put your]
6 [address where you would like uh-]
7 Interpreter: [=para ella por mandarle su de-]terminación final (.) por
correo
8
{‘for her to send you her final decision, by mail’}
The role of the interpreter
The above observations show that interpreters differ in their relationship
with other participants and with the institution, and consequently they may
differ in the role they play in the interaction. This has been the focus of much
research in studies of interpreter-mediated interaction, which have tended
to characterize the interpreter as an intermediary between the other par-
ticipants (or “between the communicating individuals and the institutional
and socio-cultural positions they represent;” Pöchhacker 2004:59) but which
have also explored how the interpreter’s own social identity as a bilingual
factors into the interaction (Anderson 1976). Studies on court interpreting
often align with legal guidelines in describing the interpreter’s role as lim-
ited to translation and hence neutral in the interaction (e.g., Hale 2004), but
this view is problematized by researchers who view it as inevitable that the
interpreter becomes involved in the coordination of interaction and hence
in mediating between the other participants (Lang 1976; Knapp & Knapp-
Potthoff 1985:452; Wadensjö 1998:7; Roy 2000). Moreover, the requirement
of neutrality and impartiality in legal settings is understood as prohibit-
ing the interpreter from taking sides in a dispute, but it does not generally
extend to interactions between lay participants and the institution, where
interpreters may side with the institution (Inghilleri 2012; Angermeyer to
appear). In line with such considerations, interpreters in institutional con-
texts have been described as gatekeepers (Wadensjö 1998; Davidson 2000;
Gómez Díez 2010) and as agents in social reproduction (Inghilleri 2003). By
contrast, nonprofessional interpreters have been described as intermediar-
ies (Knapp-Potthoff & Knapp 1987) or as socializing agents (Schieffelin &
Cochran-Smith 1984).
The role of the interpreter can also be explored from the perspective
of bilingualism and language contact, specifically studies that explore the
identity of bilingual speakers vis-à-vis the communities in contact (see, e.g.,
Gumperz & Cook-Gumperz 1982; Auer 1998a; Heller 2003; Cashman 2005;
Fuller 2007). As Valdés and Angelelli (2003:62) argue, “interpreters are indi-
viduals who, as the locus of language contact, have much to teach us about
the nature of this contact and about the characteristics of bilingual individu-
als who broker interactions between monolingual members of groups in con-
tact.” Court interpreters in small claims court are balanced bilinguals, but
Speak English or What?
76
they are also in an institutionally defined intermediate position between the
communities. As employees of the court system, they are squarely placed in
an institution that is affiliated with English and is instrumental in maintain-
ing the social dominance of English in New York City. However, many inter-
preters are also members of a minority group as foreign-born native speakers
of the LOTE. Anderson (1976:212) and Knapp and Knapp-Potthoff (1985:453)
claim that interpreters are more likely to identify with fellow native speakers
of their own first language than with other participants.7
Wadensjö (1998:277)
speaks of “linguistic belonging” and claims that, in the context of interpret-
ing, it overshadows the participants’ affiliations to other social categories.
At the same time, though, Wadensjö acknowledges that “[i]nterpreters may
feel a duality in loyalties, being associated with a minority group, and having
relatively more access to the majority society than others associated with this
group” (p. 289).
In informal interviews, I asked interpreters how they perceive their role
and how it is perceived by others. Some referred to LOTE-speaking litigants
as their “clients,” while others felt that the expectations and attitudes of other
participants made it difficult for them to maintain and demonstrate the neu-
trality that the institutional norms demand of them. For example, one inter-
preter said that, in formal courts, she felt that some LOTE speakers trusted
her more than they did their own lawyers. Most interpreters took for granted
that in disputes between two speakers of different languages, they would be
associated with the person who spoke their language. One multilingual inter-
preter told me that this became fully apparent to him when he was involved
in a case in which the opposing parties were speakers of two different LOTEs,
both of which he speaks and translates for. He felt that, because he spoke
both languages, the parties viewed him with suspicion, as a potential ally and
a potential traitor at the same time. In his view, this contrasted with cases
involving one English-speaking side, where everyone would consider him to
be an ally of the LOTE speaker (his “landsman,” as he said), as well as with
cases in which both sides spoke the same LOTE, where everyone would re-
spect his neutrality.
The notion of the LOTE speaker as “client” suggests that interpreters
could act as advocates for litigants. It has been noted that interpreters can
play such a role (see Lang 1976), and Knapp and Knapp-Potthoff (1985:453)
contend that there may be situations in which interpreters want to come to
the aid of a weaker party. As I have argued throughout the analysis, there is
reason to consider LOTE-speaking litigants as the weaker party, with respect
to both their status as participants in the interaction and their social standing
vis-à-vis the defendant (see Chapter 2). However, the interpreters I observed
did not engage in activities that can be understood as advocacy for LOTE
speakers. On the contrary, some of the Spanish interpreters expressed little
sympathy for Spanish-speaking litigants and held negative attitudes toward
77
Only translating? The role of the interpreter
them, which were amplified by differences in social class, country of
origin, and variety of Spanish spoken. As noted in Chapter 2, many of the
­
Spanish-speaking litigants I observed came from the Dominican Republic,
while some of the interpreters were from countries such as Argentina, Ven-
ezuela, or Spain that are not sources of mass migration to the United States.
In interviews, some of these interpreters made negative comments about Do-
minican Spanish, and they often “corrected” litigants’ nonstandard lexical
choices in Spanish (see Chapter 6). As Spanish interpreters were generally
full-time staff interpreters who identified with the goals of the institution,
their disapproval of litigants’ behavior also extended to legal argumentation
and courtroom behavior. As noted in Chapter 3, some staff interpreters ad-
monished litigants for speaking out of turn or for not presenting their case in
the expected manner, and they concurred with arbitrators in viewing the dif-
ficulties of LOTE-speaking litigants in cultural terms. This can be illustrated
with excerpt (2), which is from a dispute between two Spanish speakers about
the price of contracting work done by the claimant, under a verbal agreement.
After they have each narrated their version of events, the arbitrator notes that
they should have had a written contract before the work was started. When
the claimant explains that they did not set up a written contract because of
a family relationship between them, the arbitrator interrupts him (and the
interpreter) and, in a textbook illustration of the rules-versus-relationship
paradigm proposed by Conley and O’Barr (1990), she tells him to conduct
business in writing in the future (lines 19, 21, and 23). In translating these
comments, the interpreter animates the arbitrator’s voice with strong empha-
sis and increased volume on futuro ‘future’ (line 22) and todo ‘everything’ (line
24). In contrast to the arbitrator’s own voice, the interpreter’s tone of voice is
reminiscent of a teacher talking to a child, which gives the impression that she
personally endorses the recommendation.
(2)
1 Arbitrator: That’s why I said had you  [had it in] writing +
2 Claimant: [Okay]
3 Interpreter: Por eso [le digo a Usted que si lo hubiera=]
{‘that’s why I say to you that if you had’ }
4 Arbitrator: [you wouldn’t be here]
5 Interpreter: =tenido por es/crito +
‘had it in writing’
6 Claimant: Uh-hm
7 Interpreter: (.) no estuviera aquí
{‘you wouldn’t be here’}
8 Arbitrator: (.9) Okay? (.8)  [Good night.]
9 Claimant: [Eh (xxx)]
10 Arbitrator: Yes?
Speak English or What?
78
In talking about Spanish-speaking litigants to me (but also to arbitra-
tors), several Spanish interpreters expressed frustration about the litigants’
frequent lack of understanding of what was required of them in court. These
interpreters could be said to align themselves with the institutional prefer-
ences for rule-oriented legal discourse, and some of their actions can be
understood as attempts to educate litigants accordingly. This suggests that
interpreters could act as socializing agents who introduce novices to a culture
they are unfamiliar with, as has been observed by Schieffelin and Cochran-
Smith (1984). However, court interpreters generally do not engage with in-
dividual litigants over an extended period of time, so that true socialization
into courtroom practices cannot take place. Instead, interpreters experience
a succession of different litigants who engage in the same criticized behavior
(see, e.g., excerpt (10) in chapter 5), and this is only likely to increase their
frustration.
In excerpt (2) above, the interpreter’s tone of voice created the impression
that she aligned with the arbitrator. Another Spanish interpreter achieved
a similar effect by using first-person plural in translating the voice of an ar-
bitrator. As shown in excerpt (3), he translates the arbitrator’s my advice as
aconsejamos ‘we advise.’ While this could be read as representing the arbitra-
tor’s voice in a “royal we,” it also invites the interpretation that the advice is
given by both the arbitrator and the interpreter. This is strongly reminiscent
11 Claimant: No se estuvo por escrito por que se tomó en cuenta que-
{‘it wasn’t in writing because it was considered that’}
12 Interpreter: We didn’t do it in writing because
13 [we took into consideration+]
14 Claimant: [Eh, ciertos (lazos)]  [familiares que había.]
{‘certain family (ties) that existed’}
15 Arbitrator: [Sh sh sh!]
16 Listen [no no no, let me-]
17 Interpreter: [because- because-]
18 because we- we are even (.) re/lated, to some extent=
19 Arbitrator: =Excuse me! +
20 Interpreter: (.) Disculpe +
{‘Excuse me’}
21 Arbitrator: in the future +
22 Interpreter: en el fu/turo +
{‘in the future’}
23 Arbitrator: (.) everything in  [writing].
24 Interpreter: [¡/todo es] por escrito!
{‘everything is in writing’}
79
Only translating? The role of the interpreter
of Berk-Seligson’s (2009) study of bilingual police officers acting as Spanish
interpreters in police interviews, where she found numerous comparable ex-
amples and argues that by using nosotros ‘we’ to translate I, the interpreter
takes the footing of a co-interrogator (pp. 51–54).
(3)
1 Arbitrator: Ma’am? Ma’am?
{addressing the defendant}
2 My only advice to [you] +
3 Interpreter: [Lo que] le aconsejamos
{‘What we recommend to you’}
4 [es que] +
{‘is that’}
5 Arbitrator: [is if-]
6 Claimant: [Five] months!
7 Arbitrator: if you’re going to move +
8 Interpreter: si se va a mudar +
{‘If you’re going to move . . . ’}
9 Arbitrator: do so
10 Interpreter: hágalo
{‘do it’}
The view that the interpreter in excerpt (3) is aligned with the arbitra-
tor is also supported by the seating arrangement in the courtroom, as the
interpreter sat next to the arbitrator at a table, with both facing the Spanish-
speaking litigant. By contrast, other interpreters typically sit or stand next to
the litigant, facing the arbitrator. In addition, the hearing in excerpt (3) was
the final one of at least four successive hearings in which the arbitrator and
interpreter worked in tandem, remaining in their seats all along, as each new
set of litigants took place across from them. Moreover, in both excerpts (2)
and (3), arbitrators and interpreters closely coordinate each other’s turns, es-
pecially during the final “teaching” sequence, when there is no overlap, but
frequent pauses after short clauses, which are sustained by a “continuing”
intonation.
Direct translation versus reported speech
As seen in excerpt (3), the identity of interpreters and their relationship to other
participants can be related to variation in their language use. For example,
Berk-Seligson (1990:103) argues that interpreters may avoid overt expressions
of agency to deflect blame from individuals with whom they sympathize.8
Speak English or What?
80
Another stylistic feature particularly relevant to investigations of the inter-
preter’s role is the choice between direct and indirect translation—that is,
whether interpreters translate another person’s speech in the first person or
in the third person. In direct translation, interpreters speak in the voice of
the person whose speech they are translating (the source speaker), whereas in
indirect translation, they speak in their own voice about the source speaker,
often using reported speech. If a male witness says in Spanish juro decir la
verdad ‘I swear to tell the truth,’ this can be rendered in direct speech as
I swear to tell the truth, or in indirect speech as he swears to tell the truth. In
addition, the rendition could be introduced by a reporting verb and hence
framed as reported speech, which itself can be direct (he says: “I swear to
tell the truth”) or indirect (he says he swears to tell the truth), as noted by Bot
(2005:246), who describes these forms as representations rather than trans-
lations. Like indirect translation, reported speech also refers to the source
speaker in the third person, whether in the main verb or in the reporting
verb only, and hence contrasts primarily with direct translation. The choice
between these variants can thus be seen as concerning the interpreter’s rela-
tionship to the source speaker, but more generally it is also tied to the inter-
preters’ understanding of their own role within the participation framework
of the interactional situation.
The choice between direct and indirect translation has received consid-
erable attention in the legal sphere. In many jurisdictions, legal guidelines
for court interpreting explicitly require interpreters to use first person to
refer to the participant whose speech they are translating (see Berk-Seligson
1990:232, 237; Edwards 1995:83). For New York state courts, the UCS Court
Interpreter Manual and Code of Ethics specifies that court interpreters shall
“utilize the first person singular when interpreting” “to ensure that all par-
ties are properly identified for the record” (New York State Unified Court
System 2008:10). Furthermore, when speaking for themselves, they are re-
quired to use the third-person singular, as in “Your Honor, the interpreter
cannot hear the witness.” Similarly, the Code of Ethics and Professional Re-
sponsibilities of NAJIT, which is binding for its members, states that “Court
interpreters are to use the same grammatical person as the speaker” (Canon
5, “Protocol and Demeanor”). This normative character of direct transla-
tion in court interpreting is also present in other countries. For example, it
is included in the interpreting norms established by the Canadian Supreme
Court (Bergeron 2002:228), as well as in the recommendations presented by
Moeketsi (1999:174) for court interpreting in South Africa, or by Colin and
Morris (1996) for Great Britain (as quoted in Wadensjö 1998:241). This legal
requirement to use first person to represent the voice of the source speaker
is strongly tied to language ideologies about the legal status of translated
speech, specifically the belief that interpreters can and do produce “verba-
tim” translations whose propositional content is identical to the source talk,
81
Only translating? The role of the interpreter
what Haviland (2003:767) describes as the ideology of “referential transpar-
ency.” Based on this ideology, the interpreter’s words take the place of the
LOTE speaker’s testimony—that is, legally, they are the words of the LOTE
speaker (see Berk-Seligson 2000:225). Consequently, official transcripts of
trials do not include utterances made in a language other than English (cf.
Berk-Seligson 1990:31; Haviland 2003:768), as the voice of the interpreter has
become the voice of the person whose speech is being translated. For the
same reason, bilingual jurors in the United States are often instructed to dis-
regard Spanish-language testimony and take the interpreter’s English trans-
lation as the sole legitimate form of testimony (cf. Tiersma 1999:177).
Given this emphasis on direct translation in legal guidelines, it is not sur-
prising that the court interpreters with whom I spoke in small claims court
denied using reported speech and dismissed it as an unprofessional practice.9
This view is echoed by authors in interpreting studies, who often charac-
terize direct translation as an index of professionalism in interpreting (e.g.,
Berk-Seligson 1990:65). Harris (1990:115–116) notes that first-person usage is
“one of the first things interpretation students have to be told to be consistent
about.” As a professional norm, it can also be understood as part of a profes-
sional register of court interpreters, in contrast to nonprofessional interpret-
ing, where the use of reported speech is prevalent (see, e.g., Bot 2005:239).
Along the same lines, Knapp and Knapp-Potthoff (1985:451) see the use of re-
ported speech as characteristic of what they call “language mediation” events
(“Sprachmittlertätigkeit”)—that is, nonprofessional “natural translation” in
which the mediator plays an active role in the interaction. Empirical studies
on nonprofessional interpreting in institutional contexts often contain exam-
ples of reported speech, but not of first-person reference to the source speaker
(see, e.g., Valdés 2003; Meyer 2004).
The use of direct speech thus indexes the court interpreter’s profession-
alism and adherence to legal norms, but from the perspective of interactional
analysis, it also has to be seen as projecting a participation framework and
defining the interpreter’s own role within it. This has been explored in detail
by Cecilia Wadensjö (1998) in her book Interpreting as Interaction, where she
draws on Goffman’s (1974; 1981) work of frames and footing to describe the
choice between interpreting styles as one of “replaying” versus “displaying.”
In Wadensjö’s model, direct translation is characterized as an act of “relaying
by replaying,” which is “re-presenting the whole appearance of another per-
son’s utterance” (p. 19). In Goffman’s (1981:144) terminology of participant
roles, the interpreter is limited to the role of “animator” of the translated
utterance, its “sounding box,” and does not speak as the “principal” “whose
position is established by the words that are spoken.” Moreover, relaying by
replaying also positions the interpreter as the recipient rather than the ad-
dressee of a given source utterance, although other participants may break
this footing, just as they may fail to recognize that the interpreter is not the
Speak English or What?
82
principal (see below). These characterizations separate the physical compo-
nents of speaking and hearing from their interactional components. As Goff-
man (1981:144) writes, “animator and recipient are part of the same level and
mode of analysis . . . not social roles in the full sense so much as functional
nodes in a communication system.” This reduction of the interpreter’s lan-
guage use to its physical components makes it possible to see the interpreter
as functioning as “invisible” (Berk-Seligson 1990:54) or as a machine-like
conduit, which is often held as the ideal for interpreting in the legal context,
as noted by Pöchhacker (2004:147).10
The implications for the participant roles are very different when the in-
terpreter interprets in reported speech, referring to the source speaker as he
or she. Wadensjö (1998:19) describes such third-person reference as “relaying
by displaying”—that is, “presenting the other’s words and simultaneously em-
phasizing personal non-involvement in what they voice.” In this mode, inter-
preters explicitly mark the source speaker as the author and principal of the
reported speech, while at the same time occupying these positions themselves
in the reporting frame or quotative. With “displaying” mode, interpreters
thus introduce their own voice, and so we can speak with Bakhtin (1981:324)
of a double-voiced discourse that “serves two speakers at the same time and
expresses simultaneously two different intentions,” namely the intention of
the translated source speaker as well as that of the interpreter himself or
herself.
Wadensjö’s understanding of displaying mode as a distancing move, “em-
phasizing personal non-involvement” with the words of the source speaker,
is widely shared in interpreting studies (cf. Harris 1990; Shlesinger 1991:152;
Morris 1995:35; Mason 1999:152). In particular, this choice may be prompted
by a fear that in direct translation, the interpreter could be misunderstood as
being responsible for the content (i.e., as the principal, in Goffman’s terms).
Berk-Seligson (1990:116) notes that “the pronoun yo (“I”) can be a danger-
ous word,” and Wadensjö (1998:239) cites a powerful example of a misun-
derstanding in which a LOTE speaker mistook the interpreter as expressing
her own opinion when using first person in translation. On the other hand,
indirect translation can also be related to advocacy, because interpreters
who argue on behalf of another person will need to use first person to refer
to themselves (comparable to an attorney who will say my client is innocent,
rather than I am innocent). This has been pointed out by Lang (1976:338), who
describes first-person translation as incompatible with an interpreter’s as-
sumption of the role of an intermediary (see also Inghilleri 2003:258). Below
I will show factors that influence the interpreter’s choice between direct and
indirect translation, and the consequences of their choices. However, first
I will show that a full understanding of the distinction between direct and
indirect translation requires consideration of the addressee role, in addition
to the role of the speaker.
83
Only translating? The role of the interpreter
Addressee status in interpreting
Most linguistic treatments of the contrast between direct and indirect trans-
lation, such as those by Wadensjö (1998) and Bot (2005), focus on the roles of
interpreter and source speaker, and especially on the contrast between first
and third person to represent the voice of the source speaker. However, a shift
in footing (or “deictic shift”) between these two modes also affects the par-
ticipant roles of other participants, such as the addressee of the source talk
and the recipient of the interpreter’s target rendition, both of whom may be
referred to by second-person singular forms. In dialogue interpreting, when
there are only two participants besides the interpreter, these two roles gen-
erally overlap (unless the interpreter is being addressed). That is, when one
speaker asks a question, it is usually addressed to the other-language speaker
who depends on the interpreter’s rendition to understand it. However, the
roles do not always overlap when more than two participants are involved in
the interaction, as is often the case in court interpreting. In particular, the
roles of source addressee and target recipient diverge when the interpreter
interprets interaction between two English speakers for the benefit of an over-
hearing LOTE speaker. For example, when an arbitrator asks a question of
an English-speaking witness and the witness responds, the interpreter inter-
prets this so the LOTE-speaking litigant can follow the proceedings. Such
passages are often interpreted simultaneously, in whispering or “chuchotage”
mode (see Chapter 5). In Goffman’s terminology, the LOTE speaker in such
situations is the recipient of the interpreter’s target rendition, but in the role
of an overhearer, not as the addressee of the arbitrator’s source question or
the witness’s response. This can be illustrated schematically, as shown in
Figure 4.1, where participants are labeled as speakers A, B, and C, and I for
interpreter, and with dotted arrows pointing to the addressee of an utterance
and solid arrows pointing to its primary recipient (see Angermeyer 2005a:211,
modifying a schema introduced by Knapp & Knapp-Potthoff 1985).
The scenario schematized in Figure 4.1 has consequences for the use
and interpretation of second-person address forms. When the source
speaker (SA
) uses you, it is not to address the target recipient (SB
) but to
address another participant (SC
). Consequently, when the interpreter in-
terprets in “replaying” mode, second-person forms refer to the addressee
FIGURE 4.1.  Interpreting for an unaddressed recipient (overhearer)
1. SC SA
2.
I SB
3. SC SA
4. I SB
Speak English or What?
84
of the source talk (here SC
), in line with legal guidelines that require the
interpreter to use the same grammatical person found in the source (see
above). Moreover, if the source speaker refers to the target recipient, it
is in the third person and will be rendered as such by the interpreter. By
contrast, when the interpreter uses “displaying” mode, second-person
forms refer to the target recipient (here SB
), and third person will be used
to refer to the source addressee (SC
). This can be illustrated with excerpt
(4), in which a Spanish interpreter shifts from “replaying” to “displaying”
mode while translating a claimant’s testimony from English into Spanish
for the benefit of an overhearing Spanish-speaking defendant. The dispute
is about a car accident, and the claimant uses a diagram to describe the
defendant’s actions that he believes led to the collision (see Angermeyer
2009:18). In doing so, he refers to the defendant in the third person (he’s
hit me right here, line 3). As can be seen, the interpreter first interprets
in direct speech, referring to the claimant in the first person and to the
defendant in the third person (él me dio aquí ‘he hit me here’ in line 4).
A moment later, he changes his stance toward the participants, engaging in
a deictic shift that changes how he refers to the claimant and the defendant.
Now he refers to the source speaker in the third person and addresses the
overhearing Spanish speaker with the polite form of address (see Usted le
dio por aquí ‘you hit him from here’ in line 10). In addition, the interpreter
signals this deictic shift by framing his translation as reported speech (él
dice que ‘he says that,’ line 9). For clarification, all pronominal references
to the claimant are in bold, and references to the defendant are in small
capitals.
(4)
1 Claimant: Uh, he’s travelling from this way, {pointing at diagram}
2 Interpreter: Él estaba [viajando hacia aquí.]
{‘He was traveling towards here’}
3 Claimant: [and he’s hit me right] here.
4 Interpreter: él me dio aquí.
{‘he hit me here’}
5 Claimant: (.) I traveling [from this way],
6 (Attorney): [(xxx-)]
7 Claimant: (.7) and going to the Jackie [Robinson Parkway.]
8 Interpreter: [él venía de la otra] manera,
{‘he came from the other way’}
9 él dice que Usted iba de aquí, él venía de aquí,
{‘he says that you came from here, he came from here’}
10 hizo una izquierda, Usted le dio por aquí.
{‘made a left, you hit him here’}
85
Only translating? The role of the interpreter
Excerpt (4) illustrates that, contrary to how they are often described in
interpreting studies or in legal guidelines to interpreting, deictic shifts be-
tween direct and indirect translation do not involve merely the interpret-
er’s reference to the source speaker (i.e., the choice between “I-form” and
reported speech) but affect the entire constellation of participants. In fact,
in some cases it may well be the desire to use second person to address the
target recipient that triggers the deictic shift for reference to the other par-
ticipants as well.11
Importantly, in situations like those schematized in Figure
4.1, the target recipient is often the only person in the room who speaks the
LOTE, and thus constitutes the entire audience for anything said in that lan-
guage. Consequently the target recipient is likely to feel addressed by any
second-person pronoun uttered in the LOTE, especially if he or she is un-
familiar with professional interpreting norms, and if the interpreter is whis-
pering (see excerpt (5) below). As I argue in Angermeyer (2009), interpreters
have to negotiate between two different sets of interpreting norms, on the
one hand the norms of the institution and on the other hand the expectations
of lay participants, who are likely to be more familiar with nonprofessional
interpreting that relies on reported speech. Deictic shifts that involve the use
of second-person pronouns for an unaddressed target recipient may thus be
understood as a form of accommodation to community norms of nonprofes-
sional interpreting.12
This may well be the case with the interpreter in excerpt
(4), a man in his 50s with many years of experience as a professional court
interpreter. In a quantitative analysis of interpreting styles, he (“Jorge”) was
found to frequently use reported speech when translating into Spanish, but
never when translating from Spanish into English (see the data in Table 4.2).
Jorge effectively used two different sets of interpreting norms, depending on
the target language and target audience.
Given these findings, Wadensjö’s contrast between relaying by replay-
ing and relaying by displaying can be described as shown in Table 4.1, which
TABLE 4.1.
Grammatical person used for participants in “replaying” and “displaying” interpreting
modes (i.e., direct translation vs. reported speech)
Participant
Source-centered interpreting
(direct translation, relaying by
replaying)
Target-centered interpreting
(reported speech or indirect
translation, relaying by displaying)
Source speaker First person Third person
Interpreter Third person First person
Target recipient
¤  if addressed by source talk Second person Second person
¤  if not addressed by source talk Third person Second person
Other participant
¤  if addressed by source talk Second person Third person
¤  if not addressed by source talk Third person Third person
Speak English or What?
86
shows the grammatical person used for a given participant in each interpret-
ing style. The inclusion of second-person reference into the model reframes
the contrast between replaying and displaying modes as one between a source-
centered and a target-centered approach to interpreting. In other words, in
“relaying by displaying,” person marking in the interpreter’s speech is deter-
mined by participant relations in the target, that is between the interpreter
and the person receiving the translation. Consequently, first person always
refers to the interpreter, second person always refers to the target recipient,
and third person refers to any other participant. By contrast, in “relaying by
replaying,” person marking is based on the participant relations in the source
talk, with first and second person being reserved for the source speaker and
the source addressee, no matter what their role is in the target. This can lead
to miscommunication when the participant relations of the source talk are
not clear to the target recipient (Angermeyer 2005a). Such miscommunica-
tion happens frequently at the beginning of a new “macro turn,” for example
when the arbitrator addresses the defendant for the first time, after the claim-
ant has presented an initial narrative. This can be seen in excerpt (5), from
a dispute between a Polish-speaking landlady and her tenant (see Angermeyer
2005a:215). The arbitrator poses a question to the defendant, addressing her
as you (line 1), yet once the interpreter has translated this question in direct
speech (line 3), the claimant evidently feels addressed and responds (line 4),
even though the defendant has already begun responding to it herself (line 2).
This shows that, for a person with limited proficiency in English who is fo-
cused on the interpreter throughout the interaction, the use of address forms
may override other contextual cues about participation status, such as gaze
direction or other participants’ turn attempts.
(5)
1 Arbitrator: {addressing the defendant} Do you have a lease with this
lady?
2 Defendant: (.) I have uh-
Interpreter: { for the benefit of the Polish-speaking claimant}
3 =Czy ma Pani umowę z tą panią?
{‘Do you, Ma’am, have a contract with this lady?’}
4 Claimant: No ja to nie [mam umowy-]
{‘But I don’t have a contract.’}
5 Interpreter: [Nie nie] nie, Pani. Ja tylko tłumaczę co pani pyta.
{‘No no no, Ma’am. I’m only translating what the lady is
asking’}
The claimant’s response in line 4 prompts the interpreter to step out of
her institutionally mandated role to reprimand the claimant for speaking out
of turn (line 5). In doing so, she uses first person to refer to herself ( ja); thus
87
Only translating? The role of the interpreter
she is now breaking the very interpreting norms she upheld in her previous
turn, where a deictic shift could have prevented the misunderstanding from
occurring in the first place. The interpreter’s metalinguistic comment in line
5 (‘I’m only translating what the lady is asking’) can be understood as an
attempt to “explain” the institutional norms, but it also provides evidence
of underlying language ideologies. The Polish interpreter characterizes her
earlier adherence to direct speech as “only translating” (i.e., as talk that is
nothing more than translation). Her comment can thus be taken to imply that
an alternative, target-centered approach that engages in deictic shift to avoid
ambiguity would be more than just translating.
Examples such as excerpt (5) show an inherent shortcoming of direct
speech in court interpreting. Forced to limit themselves to “replaying,” pro-
fessional court interpreters are unable to assign the participant role of over-
hearer to their recipients, making misunderstandings likely whenever the
role assignment is not clear from the context. However, as shown in Anger-
meyer (2005a), this particular Polish interpreter actually sometimes managed
to mark the role assignment without overtly breaking professional norms,
namely by exploiting the Polish distinction between familiar and formal
forms of address. In two hearings, she consistently used the familiar form
(ty) when target recipients were not addressed by the source speaker and the
courteous form (Pan/Pani) when they were being addressed (see Angermeyer
2005a:219). Unlike in excerpt (5), where she uses the courteous form Pani for
an unaddressed recipient, these other uses did not lead to miscommunica-
tion. When asked, she denied that the usage of ty was intentional, and it may
perhaps be attributed to the fact that it occurred during simultaneous inter-
preting, when interpreters are pressed for time and optional marked features
like politeness may be elided (Angermeyer 2005a:220).
As Clark (1992:222) points out, speakers must assign participant roles to
their audience members with each utterance they produce. In dialogue inter-
preting, interpreters are generally relieved from this task when only two pri-
mary participants are present, because the hearer role of the target participant
is unambiguous. However, the findings of this study show that, when more
than two primary participants are involved in an interpreter-mediated inter-
action, role assignment becomes a necessary part of the interpreter’s task. The
analysis thus provides further support for Wadensjö’s (1998) claim that talk-
coordinating activities form an inherent part of the dialogue interpreter’s task
that is inseparable from “pure” translational activities (see also Chapter 5).
Motivations for deictic shift
In the above section, I have shown that the choice between direct and indi-
rect translation can be understood as a choice between source-centered and
Speak English or What?
88
target-centered interpreting—that is, between interpreting that focuses on
replaying source speech and interpreting that focuses on the understanding
of the target recipient. Consequently, the choice relates directly to how inter-
preters view their role in the courtroom and their relationship to the other
participants, especially to fellow LOTE speakers. In the remainder of this
chapter, I will further outline factors that influence the interpreters’ choice
between the two styles, drawing on both quantitative and qualitative findings.
In Angermeyer (2009), I conducted a quantitative analysis that explored
the use of indirect translation in transcribed data from 15 interpreters.
Tokens were defined as pairs of corresponding source and target utterances.
Of a total of 5,908 utterance pairs, 2,213 included first-person reference to the
source speaker in the source utterance. Of these, 1,645 also had first-person
reference in the target (74.3%), 161 had third person instead (7.3%), 359 had
no reference to the source speaker (16.2%), and the remaining 48 were ambig-
uous or unclear.13
These tokens were coded for a variety of factors, including
interpreter, source speaker, direction of interpreting, and topic, which were
then tested for statistical significance in a multivariate analysis, using the
Goldvarb 2001 software (Robinson, Lawrence, & Tagliamonte 2001).
Direction of interpreting (coded together with source speaker) was found
to be the most significant factor predicting the use of indirect translation.
As can be seen in Table 4.2, interpreters used third person only 1% of the
time when they translated from an LOTE into English (14/1,138). By contrast,
they used it in 14% of tokens when translating from English into the LOTE
(147/1,027). This finding can be explained in a number of ways. For one, if
third-person reference can be taken to indicate the interpreter’s noninvolve-
ment with the voice of the translated speaker (following Wadensjö 1998),
then the findings suggest that interpreters have little reason to disassociate
themselves from LOTE-speaking litigants and more reason to do so with
arbitrators, attorneys, or English-speaking litigants. However, the different
rates of indirect translation can also be seen as resulting from pragmatic dif-
ferences between interpreting into English and interpreting into the LOTE.
Importantly, interpreting into English occurs only during the LOTE speak-
er’s testimony, so that the identity of the source speaker is never in doubt
(see the discussion of excerpt (7) below). Furthermore, interpreting into Eng-
lish occurs nearly always in short consecutive mode, which gives interpreters
more time to produce close renditions of the source talk rather than summa-
ries or paraphrases (see Chapter 5). In addition to such pragmatic factors, the
differences can also be attributed to institutional norms and ideology. When
interpreting into English, any break with institutional norms is more likely to
be noticed by supervisors or other court staff than it would be when translat-
ing into the LOTE.14
Consequently, it is not surprising that 10 of 15 interpret-
ers avoid indirect translation altogether in this environment. Moreover, the
only interpreter who uses it with any kind of regularity at all (15%) is a per
89
Only translating? The role of the interpreter
diem interpreter rather than a staff interpreter (“Jerzy”), and he engages in
several instances of self-correction toward direct translation, showing that he
is well aware of the institutional norms (see Angermeyer 2009:12).
The findings thus show that the interpreters in this study largely adhered
to institutional norms, especially when translating into English. However, all
interpreters used indirect translation at least once, and they differed greatly in
the extent to which they used it when translating from English into the LOTE,
as shown in Table 4.2, where interpreters are identified by pseudonyms (note
that “Ivan,” the only interpreter with a rate of 0% in the table, did use indi-
rect translation when translating an utterance that did not have first-person
reference in the source). While most interpreters used third-person reference
only sparingly, three interpreters used it in the majority of the cases when
they translated from English (Jorge 81%, Yves 63%, and Jerzy 57%), account-
ing for over two thirds of all tokens in this environment (102/147). As noted
TABLE 4.2.
Frequency of interpreters’ third-person translation by source speaker
Interpreter
(by language)
Translating a LOTE-
speaking litigant
(third-person trans./
total trans.)
Translating an arbitrator
(third-person trans./
total trans.)
Translating an
English-speaking litigant
(third-person trans./
total trans.)
Total (third-person
trans./total trans.)
Spanish
Jorge 0/24 (0%) 9/10 (90%) 34/39 (87%) 50/86 (58%)
Irma 0/20 (0%) 1/3 (33%) 2/8 (25%) 3/32 (9.4%)
Jaime 0/25 (0%) 1/13 (7%) 2/20 (10%) 3/58 (5.2%)
Juan 0/39 (0%) 4/14 (29%) 0/51 (0%) 4/104 (3.8%)
Isabel 3/195 (2%) 2/28 (7%) -- 5/223 (2.2%)
Ines 1/55 (2%) 0/48 (0%) 0/18 (0%) 2/148 (1.4%)
Javier 0/240 (0%) 1/119 (1%) 2/61 (3%) 3/420 (0.7%)
Polish
Jerzy 7/48 (15%) 7/17 (41%) 12/17 (70%) 28/85 (33%)
Jacek 1/17 (6%) 0/32 (0%) -- 2/62 (3.2%)
Jadwiga 0/144 (0%) 2/64 (3%) 4/56 (7%) 6/266 (2.3%)
Haitian Creole
Yves 0/52 (0%) 8/18 (44%) 22/30 (73%) 31/101 (31%)
Yolande 0/52 (0%) 2/15 (13%) 5/17 (29%) 7/84 (8.3%)
Russian
Igor 2/39 (5%) 7/44 (16%) 1/11 (9%) 11/105 (10.5%)
Irina 0/142 (0%) 2/72 (3%) 4/98 (4%) 6/320 (1.9%)
Ivan 0/46 (0%) 0/26 (0%) -- 0/72 (0%)
Total 14/1138 (1%) 46/523 (9%) 88/426 (21%) 161/2165
(7.4%)
The table includes only tokens with first-person reference in the source and excludes those where reference
in the target is unclear or ambiguous. Data from less frequent categories of source speakers (e.g., attorneys)
are not shown but are included in the total figures for each interpreter. Interpreters are ordered in descending
frequency of third-person use (see Angermeyer 2009:10).
Speak English or What?
90
in Angermeyer (2009:21), these three interpreters are men in their 50s with an
assertive, self-assured demeanor. The two staff interpreters, Jorge and Yves,
were both observed as they interrupted participants who did not give them
sufficient time to translate, something that most other interpreters did not do
(see Chapter 5). Jerzy was observed as he interrupted an arbitrator to make
sure that the Polish-speaking litigants had truly understood a settlement pro-
posal (see Angermeyer 2009:22 and below).
In addition to the factors discussed so far, Table 4.2 also shows that the
interpreters’ rates of third-person usage differ based on the category of source
speakers. Specifically, indirect translation is more common when interpreters
translate the voice of an English-speaking litigant (21%) than when they trans-
late the voice of an arbitrator (9%). Moreover, when arbitrators are divided
into two groups based on their legal ideology and courtroom demeanor (see
Chapter 3), indirect translation is used significantly more with “fast” arbitra-
tors (16.8%) than with “slow” arbitrators (5.8%) (see Angermeyer 2009:14).
Both findings can be interpreted with reference to Wadensjö’s (1998:19) notion
that indirect translation indicates the interpreter’s personal noninvolvement
with the voice of the source speaker, as both categories of source speakers are
likely to take confrontational stances towards the LOTE-speaking target re-
cipients, which may prompt the interpreters to disassociate themselves from
them. In the dataset, any English-speaking litigant is the opponent of the
LOTE-speaking target recipient, and thus there are by definition disagree-
ments between them. And, as shown in Chapter 3, “fast” arbitrators often in-
terrupt the litigants’ testimony, leaving them frustrated about not being able
to say what they want to say. Given that direct translation carries with it the
risk that the interpreter is falsely identified as the author of a message, inter-
preters may thus engage in deictic shift to avoid being blamed for an unwel-
come message. The same explanation is also relevant for the final factor that
was found to be statistically significant in favoring the use of indirect trans-
lation, namely the topic of an arbitrator’s speech. When arbitrators (“fast”
or “slow”) spoke about their decision-making role, interpreters used third
person more frequently (17.8%) than when the arbitrators spoke of other topics
(6.9%). This corresponds to findings by Berk-Seligson (1990:115), who ob-
served that many interpreters “systematically avoid” first- and ­
second-person
pronouns during sentencing. However, rather than using indirect translation,
the interpreters in Berk-Seligson’s study achieved such avoidance by chang-
ing from active to passive voice. This can be found in my data as well, as
shown in the following excerpt from a case with a Russian-speaking claim-
ant. As noted in Chapter 3, arbitrators in New York small claims court do
not generally announce their decision but rather have it mailed to litigants in
writing. Exceptions to this policy are made when cases are discontinued for
procedural reasons, as in excerpt (6). As the arbitrator announces this using
first-person plural (we’re gonna discontinue in line 1), the interpreter renders
91
Only translating? The role of the interpreter
this with an agentless passive construction (delo budet prervano ‘the case will
be discontinued,’ line 4).
(6)
1 Arbitrator: We’re gonna /discontinue this without prejudice
2 so you can [sue the right party]
3 Claimant: [Čto tak on-]
{‘what is he-’}
4 Interpreter: Vy- uh- Delo budet prervano
{‘you- the case will be discontinued’}
5 s- s pravom vozvrata
{‘with the right of return’}
6 Arbitrator: Okay?=
7 Interpreter: =čtoby vy mogli sudit’ pravil’no-
{‘so that you can sue the right-’}
This shows that indirect translation is just one of a range of moves that
interpreters can use to avoid alignment with the source speaker. In fact, as
noted above, the omission of first-person reference in the target is actually
more frequent than full deictic shifts to third person, as 16.2% of all tokens
with first person in the source had no reference to the source speaker in the
target. In contrast to indirect speech, such reference avoidance does not in-
volve a deictic shift of the entire participation framework, and therefore its
relationship to the interpreter’s stance is less likely to be detected by others.
Other contextual factors for deictic shifts did not lend themselves to quanti-
tative analysis because the relevant environments were too infrequent. However,
given the above findings about the need for interpreters to assign participant
roles, it is not surprising that deictic shifts are found to occur in situations when
there is a potential for misunderstanding of speaker roles, such as when a new
speaker self-selects, or in situations of overlap when multiple participants com-
pete for the floor. This is shown in excerpt (7), where an English-speaking de-
fendant is asking for the arbitrator’s permission to respond to the testimony of a
Spanish-speaking claimant (line 4). As can be seen in line 6, the interpreter uses
third person in translating the defendant’s speech.
(7)
1 Claimant: Y el trabajo está allí y se puede ver.=
{‘and the work is there and it can be seen’}
2 Interpreter: =The- the work is there and it can be see- (.) sh- seen.
3 Arbitrator: [Okay.]
4 Defendant: [Can I] say something?
5 Arbitrator: Yes.=
6 Interpreter: =Que si él puede decir algo.
{‘Whether he can say something.’}
Speak English or What?
92
As noted above, such pragmatic motivations for deictic shifts arise only
when the interpreter is interpreting from English into the LOTE, because
hearings never involve situations in which an English-speaking target recipi-
ent is the overhearer of talk between two or more LOTE speakers. This paral-
lels findings by Cheung (2012:80–82) in Hong Kong courts, where interpreters
used reported speech to distinguish speakers after a speaker change, but only
when translating into Cantonese, not when the target language was English
(functioning as the language of the court). By contrast, some other contexts
for deictic shifts are not limited to one interpreting direction. Excerpt (5)
above shows that interpreters may step out of their institutionally proscribed
role and break interpreting norms when they or others are experiencing frus-
tration about communication problems or about another participant’s action.
Above it was noted that staff interpreters generally align with the goals of the
institution, and so moments of frustration arise in particular when litigants
fail to follow desired practices. An example of this is shown in excerpt (8),
a rare use of reported speech by a Spanish staff interpreter translating into
English. At the end of an exceptionally long hearing (close to an hour), the
interpreter (“Isabel”) prefaces her translation of the defendant’s turn with
a comment to the arbitrator, communicating her annoyance about the fact
that the defendant’s “last point” turns out to be a repetition of something he
has said many times before (He’s asking the same question, line 9). In doing so,
she refers to the defendant in the third person and then proceeds to use indi-
rect translation (They had agreed for quedamos ‘we agreed’), one of very few
instances where she does so (see Table 4.2). In addition, her rendition does not
show that the defendant is describing a hypothetical scenario (‘if we agreed’).
(8)
1 Arbitrator: (3.1) Anything else?
2 Interpreter: ¿Algo más?
{‘Anything else’}
3 Arbitrator: (2.6) Yes?
4 Defendant: (.8) El último punto (xxx) +
{‘The last point’}
5 Interpreter: (1.1) Last point+=
6 Defendant: =Si quedamos- yo le compré todas sus cosas,
{‘If we agreed -- I bought him all his things’}
7 si quedamos que me faltaban esas tres,
{‘if we agreed that I was missing those three’}
8 (2.6) otra vez la pregunta ¿por qué?
{‘again, the question is why?’}
9 Interpreter: (.7) He’s asking the same question. They had agreed on ah
10 that he was gonna buy the three ah remaining items,
11 why did he bring all this- this about?
93
Only translating? The role of the interpreter
Similar moments of frustration may also prompt judges, arbitrators, or
attorneys to address the interpreter instead of the testifying litigant or wit-
ness (cf. Berk-Seligson 1990:61; Hale 2004:191). Examples of this could be
seen in Chapter 3, in the discussion of excerpts from a hearing in which an
arbitrator grew increasingly frustrated with her inability to categorize the
Polish claimant’s testimony. As shown in the excerpts, the arbitrator repeat-
edly addressed the interpreter and used third person to refer to the claimant
(What is the relationship between /him and /him?). Once the communication
difficulties were resolved, she proceeded to address the claimant directly
(When did you come to work for him?). By contrast, some other arbitrators
and attorneys were found to phrase their questions for litigants as addressed
to the interpreter (“can you ask him that?”) even in situations in which there
was no sign of frustration or of a communication problem. This practice has
been observed in other studies of court interpreting (cf. D’hondt 2004:139;
Christensen 2008), and Urciuoli (1996:100) claims that it is the norm in the
interpreter-mediated interactions she observed in various institutions in New
York City. However, this is not the case in small claims court today, as most
arbitrators and attorneys address LOTE-speaking litigants directly. This
finding suggests that professionals who are experienced in communicating
through an interpreter (which is certainly true of frequently serving arbitra-
tors and insurance lawyers) may well learn to avoid this practice that treats
LOTE speakers as nonparticipants.
One case in which English speakers often addressed the interpreter was
that involving the Polish freelance interpreter Jerzy. He was recorded in a
lengthy hearing that involved two Polish-speaking women who had sued the
owner of a restaurant where they had worked. The restaurant owner was rep-
resented by an attorney, who also questioned the claimants, in addition to
the arbitrator. As noted above (see Table 4.2), Jerzy is the only interpreter
who regularly used indirect translation when interpreting into English, and
this practice may have influenced the arbitrator and the defense attorney to
sometimes address him instead of the two Polish-speaking claimants. This
is suggested by excerpt (9), where the arbitrator initially addresses one of the
claimants as you (line 1) but then uses third person to refer to her (line 6) after
the interpreter has used indirect translation (line 5). Meanwhile, the inter-
preter’s use of third person may be motivated by the fact that both claimants
speak in response to the question (lines 3 and 4), so that the interpreter’s turn
can be understood as summarizing two source utterances rather than trans-
lating them each separately.
(9)
1 Arbitrator: What kind of work do you do?
2 Interpreter: Jaką pracę wyście robili tam?
{‘What kind of work did you (pl.) do over there’}
Speak English or What?
94
This illustrates that the projection of a particular participation frame-
work is not solely the choice of the speaker but also has to be seen as relat-
ing to prior uses by other participants. The same is true for the interpreter’s
choice between direct and indirect translation, as it becomes more difficult
for interpreters to sustain the professional norm of direct translation when
they are being treated as an interlocutor by other participants. In fact, when
interpreters are addressed by other participants who mean to ask a question
of a LOTE speaker, they routinely engage in a deictic shift by addressing the
target recipient in their rendition.
The analysis has thus shown that deictic shifts from normative direct
translation to indirect translation are conditioned by a variety of contextual
factors. However, many of the examples given above suggest that they are
perhaps best understood as a reaction to some kind of interactional trouble
source, and it is by identifying these trouble sources that examples of deictic
shift can be used to shed light on the interpreters’ understanding of their own
role in the interaction. These trouble sources may be purely pragmatic (such
as the need to identify participant roles), or they may be located in the par-
ticipants’ stances toward each other or toward the court (compare Wadensjö
1998:202). When the interpreter is translating into the LOTE, such a trouble
source may be a litigant’s confrontational stance or a “fast” arbitrator’s curt
interruption, as both of them are likely to be met with disagreement by the
target recipient. When the interpreter is translating from the LOTE, trouble
sources often involve the source speaker’s failure to adhere to institutional
norms, for example by repeating testimony (see excerpt (8) above), by speak-
ing out of turn (as in excerpt (5) above), or by failing to pause for consecutive
interpretation (see Chapter 5). Thus, while these deictic shifts represent viola-
tions of the legal guidelines for court interpreting, they occur in contexts in
which interpreters affirm their alignment with institutional goals. This is true
for all of the rare instances of deictic shift in English that are produced by the
staff interpreters in the sample, but it is not always true of those produced
by Jerzy, the Polish per diem interpreter mentioned above. When Jerzy uses
indirect translation to interpret the voice of two Polish claimants, the trouble
sources that he reacts to are not rooted in institutional norms but rather in
problems of communication. When he breaks with professional interpret-
ing norms, it is often in the attempt to check and enhance the target recipi-
ents’ comprehension and to ensure their full participation in the interaction.
3 Claimant 2: (0.8) (xxx) pierogi.
4 Claimant 1: My robiły pierogi i blintze.
{‘We made pierogi and blintzes.’}
5 Interpreter: (0.7) They did blintzes and
6 Arbitrator: Oh, she [‘s a cook?]
7 Interpreter: [pierogies]
95
Only translating? The role of the interpreter
In such moments, he speaks about the claimants on their behalf rather than
speaking as them. This became especially clear toward the end of the hearing,
when the arbitrator suggested a compromise about the disputed amount of
outstanding wage payments, as shown in excerpt (10). Prior to the excerpt, the
claimants had been unable to support their claim with written documentation
or witness testimony, while the defendant had indicated that he was willing to
pay a portion of the claimed amount. These developments prompt the arbi-
trator to propose a settlement, and the interpreter translates this into Polish
using indirect translation (arbiter in line 3, and on in lines 17 and 24) as well as
direct reported speech (on mówi gwarantuję ‘he says I guarantee’ in lines 6 and
8). In using reported speech, Jerzy disassociates himself from the settlement
offer and from the implied suggestion that the claimants’ testimony alone is
not sufficient to substantiate the claim. However, the participant roles become
blurred when the arbitrator himself uses reported speech (lines 26–29) to
paraphrase the defendant’s position. The interpreter translates this verbatim,
using the same reporting frame as before ((on) mówi ‘he says’ in lines 30 and
31), but without making explicit that third person now refers to the defendant
rather than to the arbitrator. Consequently, he could be misunderstood as
attributing the defendant’s position to the arbitrator, although the claimants’
reactions do not suggest that this is the case (see line 34).
(10)
1 Arbitrator: Do you want me to ask these people whether they want me
2 to try to /pursue (.) a settlement offer?
3 Interpreter: (.6) Czy wy chceci, żeby arbiter przeprowadził negocjacje,
{‘whether you want the arbitrator to conduct negotiations’}
4 żeby jakoś domówić z gospodarzem?
{‘to somehow make a deal with the restaurant owner’}
5 Arbitrator: (.9) I guarantee you, the offer will be less+
6 Interpreter: uh [on mówi]
{‘he says’}
7 Arbitrator: [than what-] than what you’re [suing for.]
8 Interpreter: [gwarantuję że]
{‘I guarantee that’}
9 pieniądze+
{‘the money’}
10 Claimant 2: Jak [gwarantuje?]
{‘How, he guarantees?’}
11 Interpreter: [będzie mniej] pieniędzy aniżeli tutaj jest (.8)
{‘it will be less money than is here’}
12 Arbitrator: [But if it’s ca-]
13 Interpreter: [że będzie mniej] pieniędzy.
{‘that it will be less money’}
Speak English or What?
96
14 Claimant 2: ale [on winny nam jest (xxx)]
{‘but he owes us (xxx)’}
15 Arbitrator: [if the case settles- if the case settles, you will]
16 get some money.
17 Interpreter: (.7) ale jeżeli- jeżeli on się dogada z nim,
{‘but if- if he makes a deal with him’}
18 to wy otrzymacie coś.
{‘you will get something’}
19 Claimant 2: (1.3) nie, ale on nam jest tyle winien.
{‘no, but he owes us this much.’}
20 Interpreter: [But he is (own) us this kind of money].
21 Claimant 2: [Ja nie (xxx winien)]
{‘I don’t (xxx) owing’}
22 Arbitrator: So you don't want me to settle?
23 [So you just want me to get-]
24 Interpreter: [Czy chcecie żeby on] się dogadał z nim, żeby jakaś
{‘whether you want him to make a deal with him, if’}
25 umowa była, żebyście dostali  [jakieś pieniądze-]
{‘there was a deal, you would get some money’}
26 Arbitrator: [He says he]
27 doesn’t owe you the money
28 (.) He said he owes you maybe four five hundred
29 [dollars]
30 Interpreter: [On mówi] że on nie jest wam dlużny pieniądze,
{‘He says that he doesn’t owe you the money’}
31 mówi że jest tylko dlużny czterysta
{‘he says that he only owes 400’}
32 albo pięćset dolarów  [najwięcej]
{‘or 500 dollars at the most’}
33 Claimant 2: [Shhh]
34 Claimant 1: (.) Niech se do grobu weźmie.
{‘Let him take it with him to his grave’}
As shown in lines 14 and 19, one of the claimants refuses the proposal, in-
sisting that the defendant owes them exactly the amount they are suing for. In
translating the claimant’s speech into English, the interpreter is using direct
translation (us in line 20), although he does not interpret all of the claimants’
turns, many of which overlap with the arbitrator’s talk or the interpreter’s
rendition of it (lines 10, 14, and 21). In the turns following this excerpt, both
claimants and the defendant reiterate their positions; seeing that the claim-
ants are not interested in a settlement, the arbitrator announces that the hear-
ing is over, as shown in excerpt (11). At this point, the interpreter intervenes
97
Only translating? The role of the interpreter
to check the claimants’ understanding of the situation, a very unusual move
that violates legal guidelines for court interpreters and would be considered
unprofessional by staff interpreters. As can be seen in line 4, he addresses the
arbitrator in his own voice (hold on), instead of interpreting the arbitrator’s
prior turn or the claimants’ protestations (lines 2 and 3). In doing so, Jerzy
uses first person to refer to himself and the third person to refer to the litigants
(I wanna ask them again). Evidently, he wants to verify that the claimants un-
derstand their options before refusing the settlement offer, and so he engages
them in a discussion about settling the case (lines 4–28), which culminates
in an assessment that the evidence boils down to conflicting oral testimony
(line 24). The claimants repeatedly accuse the defendant of not telling the
truth (lines 2, 5, 26, and 29), yet it also appears that the first claimant doesn’t
recognize that there is a need for additional proof (line 21). Meanwhile, the
second claimant proposes a postponement in order for the claimant’s former
supervisor to testify (lines 7, 9, 11, and 13), a possibility that had been raised
earlier but that had not been pursued by the arbitrator and is not translated
by the interpreter now. Both claimants continue to appear unwilling to accept
a partial payment, and so the interpreter abandons his intervention (lines 27
and 30) while making no effort to interpret the claimants’ comments into
English. Finally, the arbitrator interrupts (line 28) by turning the interpreter’s
attention to an administrative matter (claimant 2 had not yet given her writ-
ten consent to arbitration).
(11)
1 Arbitrator: So [the uh] hearing [is over], I’ll render my award-=
2 Claimant 2:   [On kłamie!]
{‘He’s lying!’}
3 Claimant 1: [(On xxx xxx)]
4 Interpreter: =Hold on, I [wanna] (.) ask them again.
5 Claimant 2: [On kłamie!]
{‘He’s lying!’}
6 Arbitrator: [Okay.]
7 Claimant 2: [No niech-] niech Tatyana [przyjdzie] =
{‘But let- let Tatyana come (to court)’}
8 Interpreter: [Czy- czy-]
{‘if- if—}
9 Claimant 2: =niech przyjdzie jako menadżer.
{‘let her come as manager’}
10 Interpreter: czy chcecie, żeby on
{‘do you want him to’}
11 Claimant 2: [Tatyana]
12 Interpreter: [z nim prowadził] negocjacje albo jak?
{‘conduct negotiations with him or what?’}
Speak English or What?
98
The turn sequence in excerpt (12) is highly unusual in the dataset, as it
consists of an extended untranslated byplay in a language other than English,
which is not understood by the English-speaking participants and therefore
temporarily excludes them from the interaction (see Angermeyer 2009:22).
During the exchange, Jerzy reiterates points made earlier by the arbitrator,
but he is not framing them as a translation. While this gives the impression
that he personally thinks that accepting a settlement offer would be a good
13 Claimant 2: [niech Tatyana-]
{‘let Tatyana (come)’}
14 Interpreter: [bo jeżeli] nie, to- (1.6) on podejmie decyzję.
{‘because if not, that— he will make a decision’}
15 (.7) To co wy chcecie? Chcecie,
{‘So what do you want? do you want’}
16 żeby on z nim rozmowę [przeprowadzał albo nie?]
{‘do you want him to make negotiations with him or not?’}
17 Claimant 1: [No ta pewnie, no a jak?]
{‘Sure, or what else?’}
18 Claimant 2: No [tak ale on tyle jest-]
{‘well yes, but he (owes) this much’}
19 Interpreter: [ale on gwarantuje]
{‘but he guarantees’}
20 że wy tych pieniędzy wszystkich nie dostaniecie.
{‘that you will not get all of that money’}
21 Claimant 1: A /czemu?!
{‘but why’}
22 Claimant 2: ale on [tyle jest winien.]
{‘but he owes this much’}
23 Interpreter: [No bo on uważa], że on nie jest winien.
{‘well because he says that he doesn’t owe (it)’}
24 Wy mówicie tak, a on mówi inaczej.
{‘you say this way, and he says the other way’}
25 Claimant 2: On jest- no jak, ale on jest winien nam tyle.
{‘He, well yeah, but he owes us this much’}
26 [(Dlaczego) on kłamie?]
{‘Why is he lying?’}
27 Interpreter: [No jak winien?]
{‘Well, how does he owe?’}
28 Arbitrator: I need her signature (.) [here.]
29 Claimant 2:  [On kłamie.]
{‘He is lying.’}
30 Interpreter: {sighs} {laughs}
99
Only translating? The role of the interpreter
idea, he is not telling the claimants what to do. Instead, he is taking a very
active role in ensuring that his prior translations have been understood.15
Nonetheless, his actions are in violation of New York’s Court Interpreter
Manual, which states that interpreters shall “not simplify or explain state-
ments . . . even when the interpreter believes that the. . . person is unable to
understand . . . If necessary, the LEP [Limited English Proficiency] or deaf or
hard of hearing person may request an explanation or simplification” (New
York State Unified Court System 2008:8). Surveying U.S. ethics codes for
court interpreters, Mikkelson (1998:22) notes explicitly that they do not see it
as the interpreter’s responsibility to “ensure that the defendant understands
the proceedings.” As noted by Morris (1995:26), this is seen as the prerogative
of judges and lawyers, who do not want interpreters to take “an active role
in the communication process” or “to convey their understanding of speaker
meaning and intention” to the other-language speaker. This approach ignores
the fact that it is difficult for participants in interpreter-mediated discourse
to monitor their interlocutor’s comprehension across a language barrier.
As discussed in detail in Chapter 5, interpreter-mediated interaction differs
from same-language discourse in various ways that impede the communica-
tion between the interlocutors, including the fragmentation of discourse and
the frequent lack of back-channeling feedback. Consequently, neither arbi-
trators nor LOTE-speaking litigants may be aware that a misunderstanding
has occurred, and so they are unable to initiate clarification questions. As
Wadensjö (1998:198) notes, understanding is a cooperative activity, and in
interpreter-mediated discourse, it cannot occur without the cooperation of
the interpreter, who is ultimately best positioned to recognize instances of
misunderstanding. However, to do this, interpreters need to participate in
a collaborative checking of their own understanding of the source talk, which
requires them to engage with the source speakers as participants in their own
right (Davidson 2002:1297). As a consequence, some scholars of court inter-
preting have argued that interpreters should be given more latitude to avoid
misunderstandings (Morris 1995; Mikkelson 1998), but it does not appear that
such considerations have entered into legal policies on court interpreting.
Baraldi and Gavioli (2012:2) argue that the coordinating activities of in-
terpreters affect the ability of participants to actively participate in the inter-
action, “empowering (or failing to empower) them as agents. . . . Particularly
in asymmetric situations involving . . . migrants seeking asylum or defen-
dants in courts, active participation cannot be taken for granted and some-
times takes place only if it is actively empowered in the interaction.” Like the
different ideologies of arbitrators described in Chapter 3, the different in-
terpreting styles described in this chapter thus have consequences for LOTE-
speaking pro se litigants and their ability to succeed in court. The verbatim
norm of direct translation is designed to meet the needs of the legal system,
as it represents the LOTE speaker’s voice in English in the court record.
Speak English or What?
100
But when interpreters insist on following the same norm also when they in-
terpret from English into the LOTE, they may confuse and alienate LOTE-
speaking participants by failing to clarify the identity of the source speaker, or
by confronting them with talk in their language that is not addressed to them,
even though no other possible addressee is present. Similarly, interpreters
who reject the lexical choices or linguistic varieties employed by litigants (see
Chapter 6) are emphasizing the inadequacy of the litigants’ linguistic reper-
toire and legal preparedness in the courtroom and in the ­
English-dominant
society as a whole. Given these consequences, the adherence to the institu-
tional norms of court interpreting and to prescriptive language ideologies
causes these interpreters to assume the role of gatekeepers (Davidson 2000;
Jacquemet 2005a) who reproduce the legal system’s control over litigants as
well as the subordination of minority-language speakers by the dominant-
language group in general.
By contrast, interpreters who accommodate to LOTE-speaking litigants
emphasize and actively protect the litigants’ right to participate in the inter-
action to the fullest degree by helping them gain the floor, by treating them
as addressees when translating from English, by ensuring that other partici-
pants acknowledge and facilitate the translation process (see Chapter 5), and
by accepting nonstandard or code-mixed varieties when these are used by
litigants (Chapter 6). Anderson (1976:216) notes that interpreters have obliga-
tions to both sides that may not be entirely compatible. However, for Jorge
and Yves, two of the exceptional interpreters, it appears that they are. By
using direct translation when interpreting into English and reported speech
when translating from English into the LOTE, they are simultaneously able
to display adherence to the institutional norms of court interpreting (in Eng-
lish) and to accommodate to the needs of LOTE-speaking litigants, as well
as distancing themselves from English speakers who act in a confrontational
manner toward them. Their interpreting style thus illustrates the way in
which interpreters can mediate between participants and by extension be-
tween the spheres of the different linguistic communities that are in contact
in the courtroom. They are bilinguals who know how to act appropriately
in both spheres, transforming the speech of other participants in ways that
recognize the needs of the respective target audiences.
101
5
Testifying in another language: What’s lost
in translation
The previous two chapters have shown how the ability of litigants who
speak a language other than English (LOTE) to make themselves heard in
arbitration hearings is influenced by the ideological choices of arbitrators
and interpreters, some of whom are accommodating toward the litigants
while others prioritize adherence to court rules, irrespective of how that
constrains the participation of LOTE speakers. Similarly, many previous
studies of interpreting in legal settings have explored the ways in which
the performance of the interpreter affects the nature of the interaction. In
particular, they have identified various features by which interpreters’ ren-
ditions may alter the pragmatic force of an examiner’s question or a wit-
ness’s testimony. In addition to the deictic shifts discussed in Chapter 4,
such features include the omission of discourse markers (Hale 2004), the
changing of question types (Rigney 1999; Hale 2004; Morris 2008), the
use of passive instead of active voice (Berk-Seligson 1990), the changing
of indirect to direct reported speech (Lee 2010), as well as the omission or
introduction of hedging and other elements of speech style that may influ-
ence perceptions of the source speaker’s credibility among judges or jurors
(Berk-Seligson 1990; Hale 2002, 2004; Gómez Díez 2010; Lee 2011). In as-
sessing the impact of interpreting, these studies rely on the comparison of
the interpreter’s target utterances to corresponding source utterances, and
thus they ultimately align with a traditional concern of translation studies
(and interpreter training) with translation equivalence, also described as
“accuracy” or “fidelity.” As noted in Chapter 1, translation equivalence is
an elusive goal, especially if it is defined as formal equivalence between lexi-
cal items and grammatical structures of the two languages involved, as the
structural differences that exist between any two linguistic systems make
consistent formal equivalence impossible (see, e.g., Lee 2009). Nonetheless,
lay observers and legal professionals tend to view interpreting as producing
Speak English or What?
102
renditions that are entirely parallel to the source (Haviland 2003). In this,
they follow what Wadensjö (1998:22) characterizes as a “talk-as-text” ap-
proach that sees meaning as inherent in linguistic form, so that the inter-
preters’ activity is regarded “solely as [the] production of equivalent texts”
(p.  36). Alternatively, scholars have argued for an equivalence of effect
rather than of linguistic form (Nida 2004). Wadensjö (1998:24) argues that
this requires a “talk-as-activity” approach to interpreting, which recog-
nizes that “meanings are continuously established and re-established be-
tween people in actual social interaction.”
However, even if interpreters were able to produce perfectly equivalent
renditions of source talk, interpreter-mediated interaction would still differ
from same-language talk because it alters the ways in which the participants
take turns at talk and monitor their own understanding and that of their
interlocutors. In fact, to explore how these aspects of interaction are af-
fected by the involvement of the interpreter, it is important to distinguish
between two different communicative situations that litigants encounter in
the courtroom, based on their status in the participation framework of the
interaction. As noted before, litigants can be actively involved in the interac-
tion as speaker or addressee (e.g., when giving testimony during an exami-
nation), or they may be unaddressed recipients of interaction between other
participants (e.g., between the arbitrator and the opposing party). In Chap-
ter 4, I showed that these two communicative situations have different im-
plications for interpreting, specifically regarding the use of direct speech.
In addition, they also correlate strongly with the interpreter’s working
mode—that is, with the choice of consecutive or simultaneous interpreting.
In consecutive interpreting, the source input for the interpreter is delivered
in chunks and with pauses that allow the interpreter to translate before the
delivery of the input resumes. These pauses often occur at turn boundar-
ies, so that the interpreter’s speech holds the floor before another speaker
can take a turn. Alternatively, speakers may pause within extended turns.
By contrast, simultaneous interpreting is characterized by “non-stop deliv-
ery of the source text and parallel production of the target text” (Alexieva
1997:157)—that is, interpreters have to listen in one language and speak in
the other language at the same time. As the source input is uninterrupted,
the interpreter does not hold the floor in the participation framework of
the source speech. The direction of interpreting is typically constant during
simultaneous interpreting but changes frequently during consecutive inter-
preting when the interpreter alternates between the languages as different
source speakers take turns.
In U.S. courtrooms, consecutive interpreting is generally used when
LOTE speakers interact with a judge or attorney, for example when they are
giving testimony (Berk-Seligson 1990:38). This is sometimes called “witness
interpretation” (Méndez 1997:88). Simultaneous interpreting is used when
103
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
the interpreter interprets interaction between two English speakers for the
benefit of a LOTE-speaking overhearer, such as for example an exchange be-
tween a judge and an attorney, or an examination of an English-speaking liti-
gant or witness. This has been termed “proceedings interpretation” (Méndez
1997:88), and it is often done in whispering voice (“chuchotage”) so that the
interpreter’s voice is not heard by others, or by the court’s recording equip-
ment (Berk-Seligson 1990:49). As noted, this distribution correlates partially
with the direction of interpreting, as interpreting from the LOTE into English
is always conducted in consecutive mode and simultaneous interpreting is
always done from English into the LOTE. The same distribution of inter-
preting modes is found in many other jurisdictions, including for example
Austria (Kadric 2001:80), Belgium (D’hondt 2004:134), or Denmark (Jacob-
sen 2012:218). This regular distribution has important consequences for the
LOTE speaker’s ability to participate in the hearing, which will be explored
in this chapter. Crucially, interpreting fulfills very different purposes during
these two situations, and the pragmatic characteristics of the two modes influ-
ence the extent to which the LOTE speaker’s communicative needs are being
met. In particular, consecutive interpreting is used in interactions in which
LOTE speakers attempt to get their point across, answer challenging ques-
tions, give credible testimony, and narrate their “story” (a crucial aspect of a
successful claim in small claims court, as shown in Chapter 3). Simultaneous
interpreting is used when LOTE speakers need to understand the testimony
of an opposing party or of a witness, or need to be aware of legal arguments
exchanged between legal professionals. In these situations, comprehension is
crucial for the LOTE speaker’s ability to challenge others’ testimony, refute
accusations, or understand legal charges.1
Because of these systematic differ-
ences, the two situations will be discussed separately, beginning with situa-
tions in which interpreters mediate interaction between LOTE speakers and
English speakers, before turning to the situation in which LOTE speakers are
overhearers. In both situations, the ability of LOTE speakers to participate
in the hearing is compared to that of English speakers in the same situation,
considering both (near-)native speakers and English learners with limited
proficiency (i.e., LOTE speakers who do not use an interpreter and speak in
L2 English instead).
The LOTE speaker giving testimony: Miscommunication and disputed
language choice in a sample case
In Chapter 3, I discussed the need for litigants to present testimony in narra-
tive form, and I provided evidence that arbitrators prefer testimony given in a
discourse style that has been described as rule-oriented by Conley and O’Barr
(1990), as they look to classify disputes according to certain categories and
Speak English or What?
104
then follow a protocol about required evidence. The example of a successful
narrative was from a Russian-speaking claimant who had sued for damages
in a car accident. It was argued that claimants in such disputes are likely
to present their case in a rule-oriented manner and thus to get their point
across successfully, because car accidents are limited to one single event and
disputants do not have a prior relationship with each other. In the following
section, I will discuss extended excerpts from a case that is very much paral-
lel to the case discussed in Chapter 3, in that it also involves a claim about a
car accident, also brought by a Russian immigrant in his 50s. However, this
claimant gave testimony twice, with two different arbitrators, once speaking
in Russian through the interpreter and once speaking in L2 English. This
occurred by coincidence, after the first arbitrator discovered a conflict of
interest midway through the proceedings, but it resulted in creating a test
case for comparing interpreter-mediated testimony to testimony given in the
language of the court, which will be discussed in detail in this chapter. Both
hearings differed from most other hearings in my dataset in that they were
conducted in a large, crowded courtroom that was used as a waiting room for
other litigants whose cases were yet to be processed. Throughout the hear-
ings, court officers were heard making loud announcements to the crowd,
calling out the names of litigants whose cases were ready to be heard by arbi-
trators elsewhere in the building. As a result, the noise level was very high, a
factor that several participants commented on during the hearings and after
they were over. As will be seen below, this had a significant impact on the
court interpreter’s ability to do her job.
The first hearing begins with a brief disagreement about language choice,
similar to a case discussed in Chapter 1 (see also Chapter 6). As shown in
excerpt (1), the arbitrator, who also has a police report in front of him, asks
closed questions that seek to establish the basic background facts of the ac-
cident (lines 5, 10, 12, 13, and 14), and the claimant, “Mr. Bessonov,” responds
in English, answering yes to confirmation-seeking questions (lines 4, 11, and
15) and stating the location of the accident (lines 7 and 9). The claimant
speaks slowly and haltingly, with a false start (line 7) and pauses (see lines 7
and 9, and the long pauses after the arbitrator’s initial question and again in
line 22 in excerpt (2) below). His English is marked by a Russian accent, as
evidenced in particular by the pronunciation of accident as [aksidjɛnt] in line
7. This form is also used habitually in Russian by the interpreter (instead of
the standard form avarija). Perhaps in response to such features of nonnative
language use, the arbitrator directs the claimant to speak in Russian (lines 16
and 17), despite the fact that his use of English has not caused any communi-
cative difficulties. The interpreter, who has “tuned out” of interpreting mode
after line 6, translates the arbitrator’s directive into Russian. In doing so, she
engages in a deictic shift that introduces her own voice (ja vam budu perevodit’
‘I will translate for you,’ line 19).
105
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
(1)
1 Arbitrator: Where- where did- where did the accident take place?
2 Interpreter: Gde proizošël aksident?
{‘where did the accident occur.’}
3 Arbitrator: (8.4) Mister (.) Bessonov?
4 Claimant: [Yes.]
5 Arbitrator: [Where] did [the accident take place?]
6 Interpreter: [Bessonov, gde proizošël] aksident.
{‘Bessonov, where did the accident occur.’}
7 Claimant: Aksident was on ah Yellowstone Boul- Yellowstone
­
Boulevard. (1.1)
8 Arbitrator: Okay.
9 Claimant: Sixty (.) [seven]
10 Arbitrator: [Eighth] Road. {reading off police report}
11 Claimant: Yeah.
12 Arbitrator: And the accident- I got it. {unclear to whom}
Court officer: [{loudly calling the name of a litigant in another case}]
13
14
Arbitrator: [And the accident date was March-] March twenty ninth
of O three, correct?
15 Claimant: Yes.
Court officer: [{loudly calling the name of another litigant}]
16 Arbitrator: [Speak in Russian Sir!] {overlap with officer’s announcement}
17 If you need an interpreter, [then be interpreted.]
18 Interpreter: [Govorite po-russki.]
{‘Speak Russian.’}
19 Esli vam nužen perevodčik, ja vam budu perevodit’.
{‘If you need an interpreter, I’ll interpret.’}
The arbitrator’s response to the claimant’s use of English is typical of insti-
tutional attitudes to interpreter use in that it discourages litigants from speak-
ing English if an interpreter is present (see Chapter 1) and treats the request for
an interpreter as an act that cannot be revoked.2
During my fieldwork, I ob-
served incidents where litigants wanted to withdraw their requests once they
realized that it caused their hearing to be postponed by several weeks. Court
clerks generally did not allow this and insisted that once an interpreter had
been requested, the hearing could not proceed without one. Arbitrators varied
in their response, but several of the small claims court judges I observed were
particularly adamant about insisting on interpreter use. One judge repeat-
edly interrupted a litigant whenever he answered short questions in English.
She gave very specific instructions (“You have requested an interpreter, there-
fore you must testify in your native language, which I assume is Russian”)
and grew increasingly angry with each “infraction” by the litigant, viewing
even intrasentential codeswitching with Russian as the matrix language as a
Speak English or What?
106
violation of “the rules which I put forth regarding testifying in Russian.” This
example illustrates an observation by Haviland (2003:772), who points out that
courts tend to view the language choice of bilinguals as “purely a matter of
volition,” so that violations of language rules (in this case speaking English
instead of using the interpreter) are considered “willful acts of disobedience.”
The arbitrator’s wording if you need an interpreter (line 17) shows that
interpreting is understood as being assigned based on an absolute need, inde-
pendent of a person’s ability to communicate in L2 English at a given moment.
However, in this particular case, both parties were Russian speakers, so it is
possible that the Russian interpreter’s presence was in fact requested by the
defendant or his attorney rather than by the claimant. Nonetheless, the soft-
spoken claimant complies with the instruction and begins his testimony in
Russian in excerpt (2), line 22. The interpreter interprets his first clause into
English, but this appears to prompt the claimant to continue in English him-
self, as he resumes his testimony (line 24). In doing so, he treats the interpret-
er’s English utterance like an instance of codeswitching during a language
negotiation sequence in bilingual speech (see Chapter 6), and he accommo-
dates to her language choice instead of returning to Russian. But, following
a loud interruption by a court officer, he does revert to Russian midsentence
(line 25), codeswitching between the subject (the driver) and the verb phrase
(povernul nalevo ‘turned left’).
(2)
20 Arbitrator: (2.7) Where were you- How do you say the accident took place?
Court officer: [{calling the name of another litigant}]
21 Interpreter: [Kak (.) vy govorite] proizošël aksident?
{‘How are you saying the accident occurred?’}
Court officer: {calling the name of another litigant}
22 Claimant: (3.1) Ja š- Ja šël prjamo na zelënyj svet +
{‘I was going straight on green light.’}
23 Interpreter: I was going on re- on green light +
24 Claimant: and (.) in front of me (.8) +
Court officer: [{calling the name of another litigant}]
25 Claimant: uhm, the driver povernul nalevo.
{‘the driver turned left’}
26 Interpreter: Vy govorite libo po- [russki, libo po–anglijski!]
{‘Speak either Russian or English!’}
27 Claimant: [A ja vam govorju. Okay.]
{‘But I’m telling you. Okay’}
28 Ja vam govorju.
{‘I’m telling you.’}
29 Interpreter: Govorite [po-russki.]
{‘Speak Russian’}
107
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
The claimant’s intrasentential codeswitch prompts the interpreter to
break the interpreting frame, asking him for consistency in his language
choice (line 26) and then telling him herself that he should speak Russian
(line 29), thus fully aligning with the arbitrator’s request made in (1). The
claimant’s apologetic reaction (lines 27 and 28) suggests that codeswitch-
ing between Russian and English may be a habitual mode of communica-
tion for him, which he expects the interpreter to be able to understand.
Evidently, he treats the interpreter as an interlocutor. Like her, he is a
Russian–English bilingual, and he expects to be able to draw on his bilin-
gual repertoire when speaking with her. However, from this point on, he
complies with her request and uses monolingual Russian, with some brief
exceptions where he codeswitches to English (see excerpts (4), (5), and (7)
below).
The left turn: Challenges of telling the story through consecutive
interpreting
When the claimant resumes his testimony as shown in excerpt (3), imme-
diately following the previous excerpt, he starts over, repeating almost lit-
erally the wording of his initial clause in excerpt (2). He thus begins his
narrative in a way that is entirely parallel to the “successful” testimony
quoted in excerpt (5) in Chapter 3, namely with the orientation element of a
narrative (Ja šël na zelënyj svet po Yellowstone ‘I was going on a green light
on Yellowstone (Boulevard)’ in line 30). He is reporting on an accident
that occurred when he and the defendant were coming from opposite di-
rections and the defendant made a left turn into oncoming traffic, leaving
the claimant too little time to slow down in order to avoid a collision. The
liability rests on the question of whether the defendant should have waited
before making his turn, or whether the claimant was driving too fast. As
the claimant speaks, the interpreter sets in to translate each time he has
completed a clause, prompting him to pause. This illustrates the turn-
taking format of short consecutive interpreting mode, where source speak-
ers subdivide their turns into chunks that can be translated by the inter-
preter (see also lines 22 and 23 above). Apparently the claimant perceives
this consecutive interpreting as an interruption, as he sometimes begins
new clauses, only to abandon them because of overlap with the interpreter
(see i- ‘and’ in line 33, and mašina- ‘car’ in line 52 below). Also, in line 33
he feels compelled to once more repeat his orientation clause (na zelënyj
svet tam po Yellowstone Bul’varu ‘on green light there on Yellowstone Bou-
levard’) right after the interpreter has translated it, but also after the tes-
timony has been interrupted by noise (an announcement made by a court
officer).
Speak English or What?
108
(3)
30 Claimant: [Ja šël po-] na zelënyj svet [po Yellowstone-]
{‘I was going on a green light on Yellowstone’}
31 Interpreter: [I was going on]
32 green light on [Yellowstone Boulevard +]
Court officer: [{calling the name of another litigant}]
33 Claimant: (.) na zelënyj svet tam po Yellowstone Bul’varu, (.) i-
{‘on green light there on Yellowstone Boulevard, and-’}
34 Interpreter: I was going on [green light on Yellowstone] Boulevard +
Court officer: [{calling the name of another litigant}]
35 Claimant: i peredo mnoj bukval’no mašina povernula nalevo.
{‘and in front of me, literally, a car turned left’}
36 Interpreter: and in front of me ah, the car made a left turn.
37 Arbitrator: (2.0) And what did you do?
38 Did [you proceed to make] a left [as well?]
39 Interpreter: [i čto vy sdelali?]
{‘and what did you do?’}
40 Claimant: [Ja-]
{‘I-‘}
41 Interpreter: Vy prodolžali [exat’?]
{‘You proceeded to drive?’}
42 Claimant: [Ja-]
43 ja tormoznul i na tormozax šël uže [(do mašiny).]
{‘I braked, and on the brakes kept driving into the other car.’}
44 Interpreter: [I braked-]=
Court officer: ={Very loudly calling the names of litigants in another case}
45 Arbitrator: (5.1) [Well w-] {overlapping with end of officer’s announcement}
46 (.) were you- did you make a left-hand turn?
47 [before the accident took place?]
48 Interpreter: [Vy sdelali levyj povorot]
{‘Did you make a left turn’}
49 pered tem, kak proizošël aksident?
{‘before the accident occurred?’}
As can be seen, the claimant, speaking in Russian, wants to explain how
the accident happened, but the interpreter omits crucial parts of his testi-
mony and pragmatically misrepresents others. For example, in line 36, she
renders the claimant’s mašina ‘car’ (line 35), as the car. From a talk-as-text
perspective (cf. Wadensjö 1998:22), this is potentially a correct translation,
as Russian does not have articles. However, the choice of the definite article
in English suggests that the speaker is referring to something that has been
identified in prior discourse, and this is not the case here.3
The claimant is
narrating the story from the perspective of the moment in which the accident
109
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
occurred. He was driving straight, he had a green light, and, literally in front
of him, an as-yet-unspecified other car (driven by the defendant) made a left
turn, causing the accident by turning across oncoming traffic. However, the
arbitrator misunderstands this part of the testimony. Apparently he takes
the interpreter’s in front of me ah, the car to a mean the car in front of me—
that is, a (third) car, driving ahead of the claimant in the same lane and same
direction and then turning left. This interpretation seems likely given that
he asks repeatedly whether the claimant made a left turn as well (lines 38
and 46–47) and asks about the car “in front of” the claimant’s car (line 54).
The interpreter is unaware of this misunderstanding, and it seems likely that
she has misunderstood the claimant herself (compare her surprised reaction
in excerpt (7) below, when a statement by the claimant does not conform
to her understanding of the accident). As pointed out by Hatim and Mason
(1997:41–42), interpreters are at a disadvantage compared to translators of
written texts in that they do not have the complete “text” available to them,
but instead translate one chunk of source speech at a time. As a consequence,
they risk misunderstanding the meaning of a chunk when they don’t have suf-
ficient context available and don’t seek confirmation of their understanding
from the source speaker (see Davidson 2002). In excerpt (3), the misunder-
standing of the claimant’s testimony is also enabled by the interpreter’s omis-
sion of the adverb bukval’no ‘literally’ used by the claimant (line 35). As the
misunderstanding centers on the question of what was in front of the claim-
ant, namely the car or the left turn, literally makes sense only with respect to
the event (it happened literally in front of him) rather than to the car (the car
was literally in front of him when it started the turn).
The miscommunication is exacerbated by inaccurate and incomplete
translations produced by the interpreter, especially her omission of a crucial
part of the claimant’s testimony. In lines 39 and 41, she mistranslates the ar-
bitrator’s previous question by failing to ask about a left turn (compare Did
you proceed to make a left as well? in line 38 and vy prodolžali exat’? ‘You pro-
ceeded to drive?’ in line 41). In Wadensjö’s (1998:107–108) terminology, this
can be described as a “divergent rendition,” in contrast to a “close rendition”
in which a target utterance matches the prepositional content of the source.4
In response to the interpreter’s phrasing of the question, the claimant then
describes the moment in which the accident occurred (line 43). He braked
but did not have enough space to stop before hitting the defendant’s car. The
interpreter begins her translation before the end of the claimant’s turn (I
braked, line 44), and her intonation makes clear that she intends to continue
speaking. However, she is interrupted by very loud noise in the courtroom,
as a court officer is calling out the names of litigants in another case whom
he wants to send to a different room. The interpreter stops speaking, and the
other participants are silent for five seconds. However, while the officer is still
making his announcement, the arbitrator is the first to speak again. He does
Speak English or What?
110
not wait for the interpreter to resume speaking, but instead he rephrases his
own earlier question, asking did you make a left-hand turn? and adding before
the accident took place (lines 45–47). Given that the interpreter had mistrans-
lated his first version of this yes/no interrogative, the claimant’s response did
not answer the arbitrator’s question and so he asks it again. Evidently the
arbitrator also does not realize that the claimant is no longer talking about
what happened before the accident (the orientation) but about the accident
itself (the complicating action). Crucially, in lines 48 and 49, the interpreter
does not resume her interrupted rendition of the claimant’s testimony but
rather chooses to translate the arbitrator’s new question instead. As a result,
the arbitrator remains unaware of the claimant’s initial description of the ac-
cident, and an opportunity to resolve the misunderstanding is lost.
The interpreter’s choice to translate the arbitrator’s new question instead
of continuing her rendition of the claimant’s prior response illustrates a typi-
cal reaction by interpreters when two primary interlocutors compete for the
floor. This usually occurs in the form of overlapping speech, but here it is
manifested by a new source utterance that is produced before a prior speak-
er’s source utterance has been interpreted. As Roy (2000:84–85) notes, “an in-
terpreter cannot interpret two speakers at the same time” and must therefore
make a choice whom to translate at what time. According to her, interpreters
have four choices in dealing with overlap: (1) interrupt one or both speakers,
(2) ignore one speaker’s input and translate it later, (3) ignore overlapping talk
altogether, or (4) ignore one speaker and ask him or her to repeat later. The
court interpreters in small claims court typically choose to give precedence to
translating the arbitrator’s utterances, often ignoring overlapping or preced-
ing utterances by litigants (compare Berk-Seligson 1990:91; Kadric 2001:172;
and Jacobsen 2012:220 for similar examples). This reflects a respect for the
ground rules of turn taking in courtroom interaction, where turn allocation
is under the control of the presiding judge (or arbitrator) and witnesses (or
litigants) are not permitted to self-select or speak out of turn (see Atkinson
& Drew 1979). As was shown in excerpt (11) in Chapter 3, interpreters may
explicitly refuse to translate when litigants speak out of turn. In any case, the
choice illustrates that interpreters are involved in the coordination of other
participants’ talk and in the organization of their turn taking, as noted by
Wadensjö (1998) and Roy (2000), among others.
The arbitrator’s turn in lines 45–47, where he rephrases his earlier ques-
tion, also illustrates a tendency of arbitrators to be impatient with litigants’
testimony and to ask new questions before the answer to a first question is
fully translated. While they may not be aware of the fact that the translation
is not yet complete, their actions are in effect interrupting the testimony and
may result in the loss of information. Such interruptions are quite common
in the data, especially with “fast” arbitrators (see Chapter 3). Ironically in
some cases, the arbitrator’s follow-up question inquires about a point that the
111
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
litigant has already conveyed in the LOTE but that has not yet been trans-
lated.5
By asking such follow-up questions, the arbitrators thus interrupt the
flow of narrative testimony and unnecessarily delay the receipt of desired
information, despite their overt intention to conduct the proceedings more
quickly. But while such interruptions can be attributed in part to an indi-
vidual arbitrator’s style in conducting hearings, they also have to be seen as
resulting from the pragmatics of interpreter-mediated and intercultural in-
teraction. Discussing his observations in Belgian courts, D’hondt (2004:140)
notes that consecutive interpreting is characterized by a structural ambigu-
ity in turn allocation when extended source turns are being subdivided into
smaller chunks. Each time the interpreter has finished interpreting a chunk of
source speech, the previous speaker expects to continue speaking, but other
participants may misunderstand the completion of the interpreter’s utterance
as a transition-relevant place and begin their own turn. As a consequence,
judges falsely believe that an answer is complete when, in fact, the witness
was only pausing to let the interpreter translate. This ambiguity arises from
the fact that the interpreter often does not convey turn-taking cues that could
signal that the source speaker intends to continue holding the floor (Sacks,
Schegloff, & Jefferson 1974). Moreover, the cues that speakers rely on to orga-
nize turn taking have to be regarded as culture-specific, to some extent, and
may thus be misunderstood by interlocutors.6
As the hearing continues (see excerpt (4)), the claimant does not attempt
to resume the untranslated part of his prior responses but instead responds to
the arbitrator’s new question by denying that he made a left turn and stating
again that he went straight, now placing strong emphasis on the Russian word
prjamo ‘straight’ (line 50). He begins another sentence with the word mašina
(line 52), which suggests that he wants to continue his turn by explaining the
movement of the defendant’s car. However, he pauses when the interpreter
begins to interpret his previous words, and when the interpreter has com-
pleted her translation, the arbitrator once again treats this as a transition-
relevant place and asks a new question (whose car was in front of your car?). As
a result, the claimant does not finish the statement that he had begun in line
52, nor does he return to the untranslated description of the accident that he
had given in line 43. Instead, he is compelled to once again respond to a new
question by the arbitrator. The long pause that precedes his answer suggests
that the claimant is somewhat puzzled by the question, and he responds by re-
phrasing his earlier description of the events leading up to the accident. How-
ever, his testimony is again misrepresented by the interpreter, who again omits
translating an important adverb (vdrug ‘suddenly’ in line 57) and then renders
na svetofore ‘at the light’ (line 57) as it was on red light (line 61), prompting the
claimant to correct her in English (lines 62–63). This correction represents the
first instance where the arbitrator’s attention is drawn to a mismatch between
the claimant’s testimony and the interpreter’s rendition of it.
Speak English or What?
112
50 Claimant: (.) Ja ne delal levyj, ja šël /prjamo.
{‘I didn’t make a left (turn), I went straight.’}
51 Interpreter: I did [not do left] turn,
52 Claimant: [Mašina-]
{‘ The car-’}
53 Interpreter: I was going straight.
54 Arbitrator: (0.9) What part of your car and- whose car was in front of your car?
55 Interpreter: Kakaja- č’ja mašina byla pered vašej mašinoj?
{‘which, whose car was in front of your car?’)
56 Claimant: (2.6) Pered moej- ja šël prjamo, pered moej mašinoj
{‘In front of my- I drove straight, in front of my car’}
57 na svetofore, pover- vdrug mašina [sdelala levyj povorot.]
{‘ at the light, turned- suddenly a car turned left.’}
58 Arbitrator: [xxx problem] {aside to other
witness}
59 Interpreter: I was going straight, and in front of my car +
60 Arbitrator: Right?
61 Interpreter: it was on red light, ah the car made [a left turn.]
62 Claimant: [Green light]
63 (1.9) green light.
64 Interpreter: Green light, [(ja že skazala).]
{‘but I said’}
65 Arbitrator: [/Green light?]
66 Interpreter: Yes.
(4)
In excerpt (5), the arbitrator now tries to identify the role of the defendant
in the accident, unaware that the claimant has already mentioned the defen-
dant’s car several times. With a sound of frustration in his voice, the claim-
ant responds before the interpreter has finished translating, and this time he
uses a different preposition, navstreču ‘toward’ (lines 69 and 71), instead of
pered(o) ‘in front of,’ which has arguably been at the core of the misunder-
standing (see lines 35 and 56, as well as his own use of in front of me in Eng-
lish in lines 24 and 82). He thus takes a step back in his attempted narrative,
adding an orientation clause (Ona šla navstreču mne ‘it was coming toward
me’) to the complicating action (i povernula nalevo ‘and it made a left turn’),
which he has already presented several times before but which is now for the
first time explicitly associated with the defendant. However, once again, the
interpreter’s rendition does not help to clarify the ongoing misunderstanding
as she translates it was on opposite side of me (line 72) when ‘it was coming
toward me’ would better convey the source meaning in English. A short while
later, she renders navstreču ‘toward’ as ‘in opposite direction’ (lines 85–86),
which is closer to the source but apparently still not sufficient to clarify the
relative movements of the cars to the arbitrator. The arbitrator’s continued
113
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
confusion is evident by his asking yet another question (lines 73 and 74) and
finally by stating explicitly that he is “lost” (line 87). Faced with this lack of
understanding, the claimant responds by repeating core elements of his tes-
timony. For example, in line 84 he uses almost exactly the same words as he
had in line 71, and by now he has stated four times that he was going straight
(see prjamo ‘straight’ in lines 22, 50, 56, and 80) and five times that another
car was making a left turn (see povernul/povernula ‘turned’ in lines 25, 35, 71,
and 84, as well as povorot ‘(a) turn’ in line 57).
(5)
67 Arbitrator: Where did the other car come from that you’re suing?
68 Interpreter: Otkuda ah [mašina, s kotoroj vy-]
{‘From where did the car come with which you-’}
69 Claimant: [Ona šla navstreču-]
{‘It was going toward’}
70 Interpreter: (1.0) Otkuda mašina, kotoruju vy sudite- otkuda ona šla?=
{‘From where, the car you’re suing, from where did it come?’}
71 Claimant: =Ona šla navstreču mne i pover- i povernula nalevo.
{‘It was going toward me and turn- turned left.’}
72 Interpreter: (1.1) It was on opposite side of me and it made a left turn.
73 Arbitrator: (3.4) What compass direction were you going
74 at the time [of the accident?]
Court officer: [{making loud announcement to the audience}]
75 Interpreter: I’m sorry? {overlapping with announcement}
76 Arbitrator: What /compass /direction {overlapping with announcement}
77 were you going at the time   [of the accident?]
78 Interpreter: [Po kompasu,] {announcement ends}
79 v kakom napravlenii vy šli?
{‘On the compass, in what direction did you go’}
80 Claimant: (2.0) Esli stojat’ tak, ja šël prjamo
{‘If one stays like this, I went straight’}
81 Interpreter: If [you stay like this]
82 Claimant: [i in front of me-]
{‘and in front of me’}
83 Interpreter: I was going straight +
84 Claimant: mašina exala navstreču mne [i povernula nalevo.]
{‘the car was driving toward me and made a left turn’}
85 Interpreter: [And the car was going]
86 in opposite direction and it made a left turn
87 Arbitrator: (1.5) I’m lost.
The arbitrator’s comment in line 87 brings the persistent communica-
tion problems to the forefront. Evidently, the claimant has not been success-
ful in his efforts to tell the “story” of the car accident. In fact, instead of
Speak English or What?
114
giving narrative testimony of the type shown in Chapter 3, he continues to
be limited to responding to questions by the arbitrator, and these questions
continuously demonstrate the arbitrator’s lack of understanding of how the
accident occurred: Did you proceed to make a left as well? Did you make a
left-hand turn? Whose car was in front of your car? Where did the other car
come from that you’re suing? What compass direction were you going at the time
of the accident? Moreover, these interrupting questions can all be character-
ized as closed questions, as they are either yes/no interrogatives, or narrow
wh-questions that request a brief response, rather than a narrative account
(Woodbury 1984). In Chapter 3, it was noted that such question forms can
be considered as relatively controlling, since they constrain the range of ac-
ceptable answers. By contrast, narrative testimony is best elicited by broad
wh-questions (beginning with how or why, for example). In her study of nar-
ratives in courtroom testimony, Harris (2001) shows that closed questions
often prevent witnesses from narrating at all, or else cause their narratives to
be highly fragmented. Such fragmentation reduces narrative coherence and
thereby makes a witness’s account less persuasive. Harris notes that examin-
ing attorneys in formal trials ask questions to which they know the answer,
and their goal is to elicit specific statements from the witness that serve to
tell the story that the attorney wants to tell, not the story of the witness. By
contrast, arbitrators in small claims court have no prior knowledge of the
case, so their questions seek information. Yet, in the style of courtroom ex-
amination, the arbitrator in this case asks primarily closed questions and
in so doing contributes to a fragmentation of the claimant’s narrative that
makes his testimony appear less coherent and less persuasive than an unfrag-
mented narrative would be (cf. O’Barr 1982:76). Of course, as noted above,
the claimant’s narrative is already fragmented by consecutive interpreting—
that is, both by the need to pause for the interpreter and by the structural
turn-taking ambiguity that arises after chunks of interpreting and makes it
difficult for the claimant to hold the floor. Wadensjö (1998:234–235) points to
this fragmentation as a “trouble source” that contributes to miscommunica-
tion in consecutive interpreting. In particular, she notes that “[s]tory-telling
is perhaps another discourse activity which the necessary fragmentation of
interpreter-mediated talk would make more difficult. The interruptions may
make primary interlocutors lose the thread” (Wadensjö 1998:235).
The claimant thus faces considerable obstacles in his attempt to narrate
his claim, and these are exacerbated by certain divergent renditions produced
by the interpreter, as well as by the noise level in the courtroom that contin-
ues to distract and interrupt the participants. Given these circumstances, it
is perhaps not surprising that the claimant has not succeeded in telling his
story to the arbitrator, who now explicitly states his frustration and lack of
understanding (I’m lost in line 87), repeated here at the beginning of excerpt
(6). Perhaps to explore other sources of information about the accident, the
115
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
arbitrator now briefly engages in byplay with a defense witness (an insurance
adjuster) who shows him a report (lines 88–90), and to whom he had already
made an aside comment before (line 58 above). He then turns back to the
claimant to ask another question, with a tone of exasperation in his voice
(lines 91 and 94). In contrast to previous questions, it is less controlling and is
suited to eliciting a new version of the testimony.
(6)
87 Arbitrator: (1.5) I’m lost.
88 Witness: (1.6) (xxx) written report?
89 Arbitrator: Yeah, you can’t [read this] {to witness}
90 Witness: [(in the file?)]
91 Arbitrator: How do you say- (.) what did this g- man do /wrong,
92 [that-]
93 Interpreter: [Čto ètot] čelovek [sdelal ne tak?]
{‘What did this man do wrong?’}
94 Arbitrator: [to cause the accident] that you’re alleging?
95 Interpreter: čto polučilsja aksident, o kotorom vy zajavljaete.=
{‘in order for the accident to occur that you’re alleging.’}
96 Claimant: = oh, mašina dolžna byla menja propustit’ na zelënyj [svet]
{‘the car had to let me pass at the green light’}
97 Interpreter: [They]
98 supposed to let me go on greed light {sic}.
99 Arbitrator: (2.2) Supposed to let you go on /what?
100 Interpreter: On /green /light!
The arbitrator’s question goes to the central issue that claimants have to
address to win their case: proving that the defendant did something “wrong.”
In response, the claimant now explicitly states the reason why he thinks the
defendant is liable, namely that he didn’t let him pass (mašina dolžna byla
menja propustit’ line 96). However, he continues to refer to the (defendant’s) car
rather than to the driver, which somewhat obscures the defendant’s agency.
The interpreter again produces a divergent rendition (line 97–98), which does
identify an agent, but not one that is easily identifiable (they instead of ‘the
car’). In addition, her translation is markedly nonnative and unidiomatic, as
evidenced by the copula absence in they supposed, and especially by her mis-
pronunciation of green as [grid]. The arbitrator’s reaction, and in particular
the tone of his voice, gives the impression that he is annoyed, but his choice
of pronoun you suggests that this annoyance is directed at least in part at the
claimant, as it addresses the claimant and not the interpreter (at least on the
surface). However, the interpreter’s reaction in line 100 suggests that she takes
the arbitrator’s question as a threat to her face. She shows no acknowledg-
ment of having made a mistake, just like she did when the claimant corrected
her for saying the light was red instead of green (see excerpt (4) above). Her
Speak English or What?
116
response thus clarifies the lexical item in question, but it is not clear whether
this improves the arbitrator’s understanding of the claimant’s testimony. In
the following turn, shown in excerpt (7), he asks a new question that shifts the
focus to the specific damages to the car but is phrased in a way that suggests
he still does not understand which car drove into which other one.
(7)
101 Arbitrator: (0.8) What part of your car and the other car came in contact
102 [with each other?]
103
104
Interpreter: [Kakaja čast’ vašej] mašiny i kakaja čast’ drugoj mašiny
skontaktirovali?
{‘what part of your car and what part of the other car came
into contact?’}
Court officer: {calling the name of another litigant}
105 Claimant: (1.3) se- se- seredina i bliže k pravomu krylu moja +
{‘the middle and closer to the right wing of mine’}
106 Interpreter: The middle of my car (.) and closer to-
107 [čego?]
{‘What’}
108 Claimant: [right side.]
109 Interpreter: to right side of my car.
Court officer: {talking to bystander close by}
110 Claimant: (1.7) and it hit right side (1.5) toj mašiny.
{‘and it hit right side of that (the other) car.’}
{Noise from a court officer’s walkie-talkie}
111 Interpreter: (.) and (1.1) [/vy udarili?]
{‘and- /you hit (him)?’}
112 Claimant: [udar-] ah, my udarilis’ dve mašiny.
{‘hit- ah, we collided, (our) two cars.’}
113 Interpreter: (.) and we-
Court officer: {speaking on walkie-talkie close by}
114 Interpreter: (1.3) this car hit another car.
Court officer: {speaking on walkie-talkie close by}
115 Interpreter: (1.0) Right side.
116 Arbitrator: I’m not interested in the other car, I’m interested in what you-
117 Interpreter: Menja ne interesuet drugaja mašina
{‘I’m not interested in the other car’}
118 menja interesuet vaša mašina.
{‘ I’m interested in your car.’}
119 Claimant: (1.0) Byl udar v seredinu i s pravogo boka.
{‘There was an impact to the middle and the right side.’}
120 Interpreter: the impact was in the middle of the [car-] {overlap with officer}
Court officer: {very loudly calling the name of another litigant}
121 Interpreter: (1.1) and on the right side
117
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
The claimant answers by identifying the parts of his car that were in-
volved (lines 105 and 108) and, briefly switching to English, states how the
impact occurred. The interpreter is surprised about this testimony and asks
him to confirm that he was indeed the one who drove into the other car (line
111). He confirms, albeit with some hedging. As the interpreter is about to
translate this crucial part of testimony, she is interrupted once again by a
loud noise, just like in excerpt (3) above. When she resumes, she produces a
rendition (this car hit another car) that reveals her continuing failure to un-
derstand how the accident occurred. Despite the claimant’s use of the first-
person plural subject pronoun my (and her initial rendition of it in line 113),
the interpreter now omits all first-person reference to the speaker. Her trans-
lation is so vague that it is impossible to tell which car hit which other car, as
neither this car nor another car can plausibly be identified as referring to the
claimant’s car. The arbitrator again attributes this vagueness to the claimant.
At this point, he abandons the attempt to elicit testimony from the claimant
and turns to the defendant. In Chapter 3, I showed that some arbitrators react
to communication problems by dismissing LOTE-speaking claimants as “not
making sense” and then turn to the defendant instead. While the arbitrator
in this case does not make this attitude explicit, his actions suggest that he
has given up on the claimant and no longer expects him to present a credible
claim. However, as the defense attorney begins to make the case, the claim-
ant catches a lucky break: The arbitrator discovers that he has a conflict of
interest, and he recuses himself from the case. The hearing thus ends without
a decision having been made.
The analysis of the claimant’s interpreter-mediated testimony has shown
evidence of persistent miscommunication, which can be attributed to a con-
vergence of factors. An analysis that follows the talk-as-text paradigm might
be tempted to blame the arbitrator’s misunderstanding of the case primar-
ily on the interpreter’s divergent renditions and on learner errors in her L2
English. However, while it is certainly possible that a different interpreter (or
the same interpreter under different conditions) could have interpreted the
testimony in a way that resulted in successful communication, it is clear that
structural problems with consecutive interpreting also contributed to the
misunderstanding. As shown, the claimant’s testimony is fragmented by the
need to pause for the interpreter and by repeated interruptions in form of
the arbitrator’s closed questions. In addition, the interpreter’s performance
is also particularly affected by the noise in the courtroom, as court officers
continue to make loud announcements or speak on walkie-talkies in close
proximity to the bench where the hearing is taking place. This noise causes
interruptions in the interpreting process, as in excerpts (3) and (7), and it inter-
feres with her ability to hear other participants’ speech (see lines 75–76). While
the interpreter can be faulted for not seeking to improve her own understand-
ing and for not interpreting overlapping talk by the claimant, these actions can
Speak English or What?
118
be understood as resulting from professional ideologies of court interpreting
that promote adherence to the hierarchical turn-taking rules of courtroom
talk and discourage the interpreter from speaking on her own behalf (which
would be necessary in order to check her understanding with the claimant,
cf. Davidson 2002). In summary, it seems clear that misunderstanding in this
example cannot simply be attributed to a single trouble source.
The left turn, part 2: Telling the story in L2 English
Luckily for the claimant, the arbitrator’s failure to understand his testimony
did not lead to a dismissal of the claim. Instead, a second hearing of the case
was conducted a short while later, in the same room but with a new arbitrator.
As can be seen in excerpt (8), the claimant reverts to speaking English and
succeeds in presenting an uninterrupted narrative that is understood by the
second arbitrator, despite the fact that his English is far from fluent. Unlike
the first arbitrator, the second arbitrator does not insist that the claimant
speak in Russian and use the interpreter. After a few initial closed questions
about the accident date and about the car, the arbitrator uses a broad wh-
form to request an open-ended narrative response about the circumstances of
the accident, as shown in line 1. As the interpreter interprets the arbitrator’s
question into Russian, the claimant begins his response in English and con-
tinues in English for his entire testimony. In contrast to the examples above,
neither the interpreter nor the arbitrator interrupts his narrative, although
the court officers continue to make disruptive announcements (lines 3–11).
(8)
1 Arbitrator: Now ah (1.1) tell me how the accident happened.
2 Interpreter: Rasskažite, kak [proizošël aksident]
{‘Tell how the accident happened’}
3
4
Claimant: [I was going on] the Yellowstone Boulevard,
straight
5 (1.0) on the- (1.0) on the- (.6) it was green light
6 (1.6) and in front of me car-
7 in front of me [car]
Court officer: [{calling the name of another litigant}]
8 Claimant: (.8) coming on my side (.6) opposite side
9 it’s ah did left turn (.9) on the green light and
10 Arbitrator: (1.6) Okay?
11 Claimant: (.) we hit each other.
12 Arbitrator: Okay. (1.1) So you were both going in the opposite direction
13 and the other car made a [left] turn.
14 Claimant: [Yeah]
119
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
Unlike the first arbitrator, the second arbitrator quickly grasps the circum-
stances of the accident (the defendant making a left turn into oncoming traffic).
Evidence of successful communication can be seen in lines 12 and 13, where
the arbitrator explicitly restates his understanding of the claimant’s testimony.
This represents what has been described as “formulation” in conversation
analysis, a turn in which a speaker formulates the “gist” of a prior speaker’s
turn in order to demonstrate understanding and to “have that understanding
attended to, and as a first preference, endorsed” (Heritage & Watson 1979:138).
In fact, the claimant does endorse this understanding by confirming the ac-
curacy of the formulation (line 14). In addition to this explicit negotiation of
understanding, comprehension is also enhanced by the arbitrator’s use of okay
(in lines 10 and 12 in excerpt (8), as well as lines 21, 24, 28, and 36 in excerpt (9)
below), which signals his receipt of the claimant’s testimony. Okay functions
to show acknowledgment and agreement with prior talk and simultaneously
shifts the focus along to “next-positioned matters” (Beach 1993:338). Fittingly,
okay is found prefacing the arbitrator’s follow-up questions in excerpt (9) below,
and in line 10 above it occurs during a pause at a crucial junction in the claim-
ant’s testimony, namely between the description of the circumstances leading
to the accident and that of the collision itself. As such, it can be considered an
example of a response token, or back-channeling token, by which listeners give
feedback to speakers, claim understanding, or acknowledge receipt of their
talk, especially during extended turns, such as narratives (Gardner 2001).
Research on courtroom talk has found that such response tokens are
rare in witness examination, as noted by Heritage and Clayman (2010:175),
who suggest that this may be because questioners are eliciting testimony for
the benefit of an overhearing jury, not for themselves (another factor may be
that questioners have prior knowledge of the information being conveyed).
By contrast, Atkinson (1992:201–202) finds that response tokens are used by
the small claims arbitrators he observed in his study, and this is true also for
some of the arbitrators in the data examined here. However, when arbitrators
listen to interpreted testimony, they produce tokens that respond to the inter-
preter’s speech, not to that of the LOTE-speaking witness, and interpreters
generally do not attempt to render such receipt tokens into the LOTE. This
can be seen in the only example of a receipt token from the hearing quoted
above (line 60), where the arbitrator uses right? in response to a rendition
by the interpreter in which a chunk of testimony is repeated from earlier.
This finding corresponds to other research on response tokens in interpreter-
mediated interaction. Davidson (2002:1274, 1277) claims that markers of ac-
knowledgment are “not easily found” in interpreter-mediated interaction,
and he argues that communication problems in interpreted discourse are
largely the result of “difficulty in establishing reciprocity of understanding
between the primary interlocutors.” Similarly, Wadensjö (1998:236–237) in-
cludes “non-standard back-channelling” in her list of “trouble sources” that
Speak English or What?
120
may lead to miscommunication in interpreter-mediated interaction (see also
D’hondt 2004:141). Clearly, these claims appear to be supported by the con-
trast between the misunderstanding in the interpreted interaction in excerpts
(3) through (7), where receipt tokens are almost entirely absent, and the suc-
cessful communication found in excerpts (8) and (9), where they are abun-
dant. The contrast is underscored by the fact that the sequential placement of
response tokens during narratives, like okay? in line 10, parallels that of in-
terpreter turns in consecutive interpreting, as they occur after chunks of tes-
timony but before the claimant’s turn is complete. Unlike interpreter turns in
consecutive interpreting, however, such response tokens are not interruptive,
as the speaker does not claim the floor but recognizes that the prior speaker
has not yet finished his or her turn. In fact, forms like okay? in line 10 draw
attention to the incompleteness of the prior turn and prod the speaker to
complete it, which is why Schegloff (1993:105) proposes the term “continuer”
to describe such tokens of acknowledgment.
Excerpt (8) thus shows that the arbitrator actively participates in the ne-
gotiation of mutual understanding rather than placing the burden of commu-
nication solely on the claimant. Once the basic facts of the accident have been
established by the claimant’s narrative, the arbitrator inquires about specific
details that are relevant to determine the litigants’ liability, and he does so
using closed questions (see Chapter 3), to which the claimant responds in
English. In quick succession, the arbitrator asks at what time the claimant
became aware of the defendant’s intention to turn (lines 15–16, and 19), what
the distance was between the vehicles (lines 21, 24–26, 28–31, 36, and 38),
whether the light was green (line 40), what their respective speeds were (42),
and finally what the speed limit was on the road where the accident occurred
(line 46). At this point, the defendant speaks up for the first time, responding
to the question before the claimant does and accusing him of having driven
too fast (line 47). While it is not the defendant’s turn to speak, it becomes clear
that the claimant’s “story” is now sufficiently established that it can be chal-
lenged. This was clearly not the case in the hearing with the first arbitrator.
(9)
15
16
Arbitrator: (.8) When the other- did you see the other car start to make the
left turn?
17 Claimant: (.6) It’s- it’s was ah extremely short time was standing little bit
18 then make ri- right to the left turn.
19 Arbitrator: The first time you saw that other car, it was moving or stopped?
20 Claimant: When I saw the car was s- stopped.
21 Arbitrator: Okay. (.9) And, how far from the [inter-]
22 Claimant: [I- I was] far a little but he turn-
23 he turn- he wanted to turn quickly but (1.1) [it didn’t happen]
24 Arbitrator: [Okay.]
121
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
25 But let me ask you this, when you first saw him stopped,
26 how far away from the intersection were you?
27 Claimant: (2.0) I was around (2.3) maybe hundred feet?
28 Arbitrator: Okay (.5) And where was your car in relation to the intersection
29 when the other car made the left turn?
30 (1.6) Where was the- where was your car
31 [when the other car made that- made the left turn?]
32 Interpreter: [Gde vaša mašina byla po otnošeniju] k perekrëstku,
{‘Where was your car in relation to the intersection’}
33 kogda on [sdelal] levyj povorot.
{‘when he made a left turn.’}
34 Claimant: [it-]
35 It was already close, in front of me car made left turn.
36 Arbitrator: Okay, how close were you to the intersection is what I’m asking.
37 Claimant: It was already maybe like uh thirty feet?
38 Arbitrator: Thirty feet from the [intersection?]
39 Claimant: [Yeah]
40 Arbitrator: (1.4) Light was still green?
41 Claimant: (.) Light was still green.
42 Arbitrator: (2.5) What speed were you moving?
43 Claimant: (.6) Speed forty-five miles.
44 Arbitrator: (.6) On Yellowstone Boulevard?
45 Claimant: Yellowstone.
46 Arbitrator: What was that- what is the speed limit there?
47 Defendant: Thirty.
48 Def. attorney:Sh (xxx) {whispered}
49 Arbitrator: Not you. I’ll get [to you]
50 Claimant: [I- I-] Uh:-
51 Arbitrator: [You don’t know?]
52 Claimant: [(I don’t know) ] exactly.
The above excerpts provide evidence of a sharp contrast between the two
hearings with respect to the claimant’s testimony, both in his performance
and in its reception by the two arbitrators. In the first hearing, the claim-
ant speaks mostly Russian (after being told to do so by the arbitrator) and
his testimony is translated by the interpreter. However, there are clear signs
of communication breakdown between the participants. As noted above,
the claimant’s narrative is fragmented by consecutive interpreting and is in-
terrupted by controlling questions that show the arbitrator’s failure to un-
derstand and at the same time constrain the claimant’s ability to respond
in narrative form. In addition, the interpreter produces some divergent ren-
ditions, and the hearing is repeatedly interrupted by loud announcements
Speak English or What?
122
made by court officers. Until the moment that the arbitrator recuses himself,
the claimant seems destined to lose the case, simply by virtue of not having
been able to tell “his story.” By contrast, the excerpts of the second hearing
show no signs that communication is failing, or that the claimant’s testimony
is in any form inadequate. Being given a second chance, the claimant now
speaks English almost exclusively, and he is not interrupted, as the interpreter
limits herself to translating occasionally from English into Russian, when the
claimant hesitates to respond to a question (lines 32–33). The case proceeds
without further communicative problems between arbitrator and claimant,
and when the arbitrator renders his decision, it is in favor of the claimant (al-
though not for the entire claim amount, due to disagreements about possible
prior damage to the car).
The comparison between the two hearings raises questions about the
consequences of communicating through an interpreter or speaking in
a second language. While it is clear that multiple factors play a role in de-
termining whether a litigant is able to successfully narrate a claim, it sug-
gests that using an interpreter for this task is not necessarily preferable over
giving testimony in L2 English. Of course, speaking in an L2 carries a risk
of miscommunication with it as well, as has been shown in several studies.
For example, Gumperz (1982a) shows in a case study of a perjury trial how
grammatical and pragmatic interference from Tagalog causes the English
testimony of a doctor of Filipino origin to be misunderstood and perceived
as not truthful by native speakers. Psycholinguistic research by Lev-Ari and
Keysar (2010) suggests that native speakers perceive nonnative speakers as
less truthful because of processing difficulties, whereas Lippi-Green (1994)
argues that the comprehensibility of nonnative speech is greatly affected by
the attitude of the native listener. Blommaert (2001) analyzes narratives of
asylum seekers in Belgium who use L2 varieties of Dutch, French, or English
and notes that “[n]arrating in a second, third or other foreign language may
considerably reduce the set of resources which speakers can select for struc-
turing their story and thus for ‘making their point’.” He argues, though, that
these reduced resources do “not pre-empt the fact that they make their point”
(p. 418) or produce narratives that, “despite ‘errors’ . . . can be narratively
complex and display obvious patterns of coherence” (p. 423). However, their
Belgian interlocutors judge these narratives based on specific cultural and
institutional expectations to which the speakers have little or no access.
Drawing on Hymes (1996), Blommaert uses the term “narrative inequality”
to describe such power asymmetries.
Narrative inequality is clearly also experienced by litigants who speak
in their L1 but communicate through an interpreter. While they may not be
as limited in their linguistic resources as they would be when speaking in
L2 English, their ability to “structure their stories” is severely reduced by
the need to pause for consecutive interpreting and by the likelihood of being
123
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
interrupted by other speakers at turn transition points in the interpreting pro-
cess. As shown above, this leads to a fragmentation of the narratives that
reduces their coherence and is likely to make them less persuasive. Conse-
quently, it is not surprising that some litigants resist this fragmentation and
speak without pauses, especially when becoming agitated, or when arbitra-
tors want to end the hearing. When this happens, they are almost always in-
terrupted by interpreters who insist on consecutive interpreting mode.7
This
is illustrated in excerpt (10), an excerpt from a case between two women from
the Dominican Republic concerning a private loan. Halfway through her ini-
tial testimony, the claimant is agitated and continues speaking while the in-
terpreter translates (lines 3 and 5), effectively inducing a temporary shift from
consecutive to simultaneous interpreting mode (lines 2 and 4). She does then
pause in lines 5, 10, and 14, but only after being interrupted by the interpreter,
and after producing source “chunks” that consist of multiple clauses (first in
lines 1, 3, and 5, then in lines 8–10, and finally lines 12–14). The Spanish inter-
preter does manage to keep up with her, but in line 17 he breaks the interpret-
ing frame and complains that she is making it difficult for him to translate.
(10)
1 Claimant: que no me contestaban el telefono,
{‘that they didn’t answer the phone’}
2 Interpreter: [that they weren’t answering my calls]
3 Claimant: [que no me han abierto la] puerta
{‘that they didn’t open the door’}
4 Interpreter: [they would not-]
5 Claimant: [han pasado] (.) muchísimas problemas (.) entonces-
{‘many problems occurred, so’}
6 Interpreter: they just wouldn’t open the door,
7 there had been too many problems.
8 Claimant: me puso que iba a reci-
{‘he told me that I would get’}
9 cuando recibieran el dinero de los income taxes que me iba pagar.
{‘when they got the money from income tax they would pay me’}
10 [(xxx cuando recibió xxx)-]
{‘xxx when he got xxx’}
11 Interpreter: [So he told me when he got his] income tax refund he would ah
pay me=
12
13
Claimant: =Recibió el dinero de los income taxes, del cheque grande no
me pagó
{‘he got the money from income tax, from the big check he
didn’t pay me’}
14 después [que cuando (llegó el pequeño-)]
{‘after that when the small one came’}
Speak English or What?
124
With his comment in line 17, the interpreter affirms his preference for
consecutive interpreting in the translation of witness testimony, in line with
institutional guidelines that mandate it in this situation (New York State Uni-
fied Court System 2008:7). As shown, this directive causes an interruption
of the testimony, as the claimant begins to laugh, perhaps out of embarrass-
ment (lines 18, 21, 23, and 27). This then prompts the arbitrator to inquire
what happened (line 20), and she laughs as well. The interpreter responds to
the question, commenting that this is a routine occurrence (line 22), which
he attributes to LOTE-speaking litigants in general (they line 25), not to the
particular claimant in this case. After more laughter from the arbitrator and
the claimant, the hearing continues with a new question by the arbitrator, and
so the claimant does not continue her narrative where she had left off in line
14 (‘when the small check came’). Consequently, the failure to adhere to the
fragmenting format of consecutive interpreting has nonetheless resulted in a
fragmentation of her testimony.
Ng (2009a:161) describes a comparable situation in a case from his study
in Hong Kong courts, where an interpreter similarly breaks the interpret-
ing frame and interrupts a witness to ask him to make pauses. However, the
witness resists this explicitly, complaining that the pauses in consecutive
interpreting let him forget what he wanted to say (“But after I stopped, I
forgot. Stop and go, stop and go, right?”). In the bilingual legal system of
Hong Kong, litigants may choose to have their trial conducted in English or
in Cantonese, and so this litigant is able to opt for a Cantonese trial, instead
of participating in an English trial with the help of a Cantonese–English
15
16
Interpreter: [He got the big check from the] income tax and he
didn’t pay me.
17 {to claimant} Tiene que dejarme traducir, amiga.
{‘You have to let me translate, my friend.’}
18 Claimant: Sí, [perdon] {giggles}
{‘Yes, excuse me.’}
19 Interpreter: [Okay]
20 Arbitrator: {laughs} What happened? [What did I miss?]
21 Claimant: [(xxx xxx for you)] {laughing}
22 Interpreter: What happened? What always happens!
23 Claimant: {laughing}
24 Arbitrator: She started speaking [English?] {laughing}
25 Interpreter: [They don’t] stop!
26 Arbitrator: Oh, okay. Ha ha ha ha (.) okay.
27 Claimant: {laughing}
28
29
Arbitrator: Why don’t you tell me- did- did you have anything else you
want to show me?
125
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
interpreter. By contrast, LOTE-speaking litigants in New York small
claims court do not have the option of a trial in their L1, so they cannot
avoid the fragmentation of their testimony unless they are able to speak in
L2 English, as the claimant in excerpt (8) above.8
This puts LOTE-speaking
litigants at a disadvantage compared to English-speaking opponents, who
are able to give unfragmented testimony. Moreover, this narrative inequal-
ity extends to the participants’ ability to understand the testimony of their
opponents. As excerpt (10) shows, unfragmented testimony is more diffi-
cult for interpreters to translate than testimony divided into chunks. Yet
interpreters are routinely faced with this challenge, when they interpret the
testimony of an English speaker for an overhearing LOTE speaker, and this
often leads to incomplete translations, as will be discussed in the following
section.
The LOTE speaker as unaddressed recipient: Following the proceedings
As noted in the introduction to this chapter, court interpreting has two dif-
ferent functions, which arise in two different situations. On the one hand,
interpreters mediate the interaction between a LOTE speaker and an English-
speaking judge, attorney, or arbitrator, as shown in the previous sections of
this chapter. On the other hand, interpreters are also given the task of en-
abling a LOTE-speaking litigant to understand the rest of the proceedings—
that is, to interpret when English speakers interact with one another. In cases
in which one party speaks English and the other does not, this situation arises
when English speakers narrate testimony, when they are being questioned by
an arbitrator or attorney, or when there is an exchange between an arbitrator
and an attorney. In all of these situations, LOTE speakers are unaddressed
recipients of other participants’ talk, and the English speakers design their
talk for each other, not for the overhearing LOTE speaker. Consequently,
they often do not take the presence of the interpreter into account but interact
with their interlocutors in the same way as they would if no interpreter were
present, narrating without pauses, or responding immediately to their inter-
locutor’s turns. As will be shown in the following section, this leads to the
use of simultaneous interpreting mode, which poses considerable challenges
to the interpreters and has implications for the ability of LOTE speakers to
follow the proceedings and understand claims made by the opposing party.
The need to understand the opponent’s testimony is especially im-
portant for defendants. As shown in Chapter 3, they don’t always get to
narrate their own “story” but rather are asked to respond to questions
about the claimant’s testimony and refute accusations made by the claim-
ant. While the majority of cases had LOTE-speaking claimants (see Chap-
ter 2), some did involve English-speaking claimants and LOTE-speaking
Speak English or What?
126
defendants. In such cases, the claimant’s initial narrative testimony was
interpreted into the LOTE for the benefit of the defendant. This is il-
lustrated with excerpt (11) from a case brought by a landlord against his
Spanish-speaking tenant who had failed to pay the rent in full after he
had raised it. Like excerpts (8) and (9) above, the excerpt illustrates the
absence of fragmentation in narratives given in English. In response to
the arbitrator’s initiating question (line 1), the claimant begins to narrate
his claim in line 3 and continues throughout the excerpt without interrup-
tion. In fact, he takes an extended turn that continues beyond the excerpt
shown, as he narrates for 1 minute and 12 seconds before the arbitrator
asks him a new question.
(11)
1 Arbitrator Okay, Mister Singh, what  [happened?]
2 Interpreter: [¿Mister Singh]  [que pasó?]
{‘Mr. Singh, what happened?’]
3 Claimant: [Well]
4 actually, she’s- she’s been my tenant
5 [since last four- four and a half years.]
6 Interpreter: [Ella ha sido inquilina] por cua-  [cuatro años y medio.]
{‘She’s been a tenant for 4 ½ years’}
7 Claimant: [And since she has moved in,]
8 [I had /never (.) raised her rent for four and a half years.]
9 Interpreter: [despues de (xxx se xxx) nunca le he subido la renta.]
{‘since xxx I have never raised the rent on her’}
10 Claimant: (.6) But uh [lately]
11 Interpreter: [pero] ultimamente
{‘But in the end’}
12 Claimant: last year she was-
13 Interpreter: pero el [último año- el año pasado, (ella se)]
{‘but the final year- last year, she’}
14 Claimant: [she just got married, that’s what was told to me].
15 Interpreter: ca[só].
{‘got married’}
16 Claimant: [So,] (.7) she was only gonna be there
17 [with her husband and her child that came in this country.]
18 Interpreter: [solamente iba a estar con su esposo y] niño
{‘she was only going to stay with her husband and child’}
19 que vinieron al [país.]
{‘ who came to the country’}
20 Claimant: [so] I didn’t raise her
21 [rent for a little while but in April]
127
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
22 Interpreter: [Yo no le subí la renta (xxx)],
{‘I didn’t raise the rent on her xxx’}
23 pero en abril.
{‘but in April’}
24 Claimant: I gave her- [I said] this is silly [because it’s-]
25 Interpreter: [Le di] [(xxx)]
{‘I gave her’}
26 Claimant: my expenses are [getting much higher]
27 Interpreter: [tengo muchos gastos]
{‘I have a lot of expenses’}
28 Claimant: [and the same apartment downstairs]=
29 Interpreter: [(xxx xxx)]=
30 Claimant =[has rented for fifteen hundred and thirty dollars]
31 Interpreter: =[el apartamento de abajo (xxx) le] doy por mil =
{‘the downstairs apartment xxx I rent for one thousand’}
32 Claimant: =[she only pays /twelve hundred.]
33 Interpreter: =[quinientos treinta] y ella solamente paga
{‘fivehundred thirty, and she only pays’}
34 mil dos cientos.
{‘one thousand two hundred’}
Throughout the narrative, the interpreter interprets simultaneously
into Spanish for the defendant, but this does not lead to fragmentation of
the claimant’s testimony. Unlike in consecutive interpreting, the interpreter
never takes a turn in the participation framework of the primary participants
(as the claimant responds to the arbitrator’s question). Throughout the ex-
cerpt, the interpreter’s utterances all overlap fully or partially with talk by
the claimant. However, in contrast to the case in excerpt (10), where a rela-
tively brief occurrence of such overlap prompted the interpreter to interrupt
the claimant, the interpreter in excerpt (11) does not object and interprets in
simultaneous mode. While he speaks in a low voice (though not whispering)
and not all of his translations are clearly audible in the recording, it appears
that he is able to produce a relatively close rendition of the claimant’s tes-
timony. His translation does omit two clauses that are not part of the core
narrative of events but instead convey the claimant’s epistemic or affective
stances (that’s what was told to me in line 14, this is silly in line 24)—that is,
clauses that could be categorized as evaluative in Labov’s (1972) narrative
framework.
The selection of the consecutive or simultaneous interpreting mode has
been described as being the choice of the court interpreter (Jacobsen 2012),
but a comparison of excerpts (10) and (11) suggests that the distribution is
Speak English or What?
128
largely determined by institutional policy and by the behavior of the other
participants. Consecutive interpreting occurs when speakers pause to give
the interpreter time to translate, and simultaneous interpreting occurs when
speakers do not make such pauses. As seen in excerpt (10), LOTE speak-
ers are expected to make pauses in their testimony, so interpreting from the
LOTE into English is nearly always done in consecutive mode, and this is
in fact required by court guidelines (New York State Unified Court System
2008:7). By contrast, English-speaking participants often do not pause for
the interpreter, as seen in excerpt (11), and they are not expected to. When
an arbitrator or attorney asks questions of a LOTE-speaking litigant or wit-
ness, these are usually short enough to permit consecutive interpreting even
without deliberate pauses, because the addressee is not likely to take a turn
before the interpreter has spoken (unless he or she has understood the ques-
tion in English). But when two English speakers interact, such as an arbi-
trator and an English-speaking litigant, they generally do not pause for the
interpreter, neither within turns nor between turns, and so the interpreter has
no choice but to use simultaneous mode, unless she or he is able to request
source speakers to make pauses.9
This occurred in only two instances in the data, and they involved Jorge
and Yves, two staff interpreters who were shown to be exceptional in their
regular use of reported speech when translating into English (see Chapter 4).
One example is given in excerpt (12), from a dispute between a Haitian cus-
tomer and a West Indian storeowner about a refund for a defective computer
that had been delivered to the claimant. As the defendant is narrating his ver-
sion of the events that led to the dispute, the interpreter (“Yves”) interrupts
him (line 6) when he begins a new utterance (line 5) before the previous one
has been translated. Evidently, Yves wants to interpret in consecutive mode
(note that he does not begin interpreting during the defendant’s utterance
shown in lines 1–3). The arbitrator reiterates the request (line 7), and the de-
fendant complies, although responding to her and not to Yves (line 9).
(12)
1
2
Defendant: And we warned him about that if he keeps all these things
plugged in
3 it will have- ahm it will affect the system
4 Interpreter: Li [di-]
{‘he says-‘}
5 Defendant: [Ah] also-
6 Interpreter: Shh please please give me a chance to- to translate you to him
7 Arbitrator: Talk [slower so he can interpret]
8 Interpreter: [Li di ou konsa ke-]
{‘he tells you that-‘}
9 Defendant: [Yes Maam]
129
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
Following this exchange, the defendant continues his brief narrative, and
then the arbitrator asks further clarification questions of him, as well as of
the claimant, and also of a witness. When the discussion turns to a dispute
about who was present on the day of the delivery (see (13)), the defendant takes
another extended turn and he again fails to pause for the interpreter, causing
overlap (lines 3 and 4) and another interruption (lines 5–6). This time, the ar-
bitrator does not get involved, and the defendant reacts with indignation (lines
7–8), though he ultimately accepts the interpreter’s request (line 11). Before he
resumes his testimony, he asks if Yves is ready and then he pauses after his
first, subordinate clause, before he has even finished a whole sentence (line 15).
(13)
10 Interpreter: [Thank you very much] (.)
11
12
Li di ou konsa ke li te di ou ke tout bagay ou ploge nan
kompute-a,
{‘he tells you that he told you that you plugged all this stuff
in the computer’}
13 si ou pa deploge-yo lap afekte kompute-a
{‘if you didn’t unplug them it would affect the computer’}
14 Arbitrator: (1.2) You’re okay?
15 Interpreter: (2.0) Yeah, go ahead go ahead
1 Defendant: there was two of them that went (with me) the second day,
2 because what happened
3 Interpreter: [Nan dezyèm jou a se de ki te vini]
{‘on the second day, there were two who came’}
4 Defendant: [on the day that- I got called back to go back to] the client-
5 Interpreter: Go slow Sir! You give me a chance to do the translation
6 (if) you’re [too fast-]
7 Defendant: [All you] have to do is ask Sir
8 You don’t really have to be [(impolite) okay?]
9 Interpreter: [I know but I]
10 have to do the- the translation, go slow for me
11 Defendant: [All right, it’s no problem]
12 Interpreter: [That- that will make- make-] (.7) I will do the job better
13 Defendant: All right. (.8) Are you ready?
14 Interpreter: Yes, go ahead. Go- go slow please.=
15 Defendant: =Okay, the first day we delivered [the computer +]
16 Interpreter: [Premye jou]
17 ke nou te delivre kompute [-a ba-ou a]
{‘the first day that we delivered the computer to you’}
Speak English or What?
130
While Yves’ objections in (12) and (13) interrupt the defendant’s narrative,
they also result in a fragmentation of discourse once interpreting is resumed.
Not only do the defendant’s pauses in lines 15 and 19 lead to a fragmentation
by consecutive interpreting, but they also prompt a reaction from the arbitra-
tor. In line 18, she reacts to his pause with okay?, a response token that marks
the previous talk as unfinished (see excerpt (8)), and then she begins a new
question in line 21, taking advantage of the turn-taking ambiguity that arises
in consecutive interpreting. Yves’ actions have thus made it more difficult for
the English-speaking defendant to hold the floor, yet this does not put him
at a disadvantage compared to the Haitian-speaking claimant, whose talk is
also interpreted in consecutive mode. Thus, by insisting on consecutive in-
terpreting, Yves inadvertently counteracts the narrative inequality described
above and levels the playing field between the LOTE-speaking claimant and
the English-speaking defendant.
The defendant’s reaction in line 7 shows that such meta-pragmatic ob-
jections to uninterrupted source-speech delivery constitute face-threatening
acts (this is also a likely explanation for the claimant’s laughter in excerpt
(10)). Given this fact, it is perhaps not a coincidence that all the interpret-
ers I observed engaging in this practice were men in their 50s with an as-
sertive demeanor in the courtroom. This includes Yves and Jorge, who
were observed interrupting English-speaking litigants, as well as two other
interpreters who interrupted LOTE-speaking litigants (see excerpt (10)).10
All interruptions occurred with litigants, never with an arbitrator or attor-
ney who failed to pause during an extended turn, such as for example when
explaining the differences between arbitration and a judge-led trial (see An-
germeyer to appear for a detailed discussion of a relevant example). This fact
demonstrates further that there is an institutional hierarchy of participants
with regard to turn-taking rights, which is also manifested in the asymmetri-
cal treatment of overlapping speech, as shown in the discussion of excerpt
(3) (compare also Davidson 2000). Thus, it appears that interpreters are re-
luctant to engage in acts that could be seen as threatening the face of the
arbitrator, while some are willing to threaten the face of litigants. However,
interruptions as in excerpt (12) also indirectly threaten the face of the inter-
preter, because they can be taken to imply a lack of competence in simultane-
ous interpreting. As noted in Chapter 4, court interpreters are required to be
18 Arbitrator: [Okay?]
19 Defendant: There was Dennis with me +
20 Interpreter: Te gen De- Dennis ki te [avek (mwen)]
{‘it was Dennis who was with (me)’}
21 Arbitrator: [Okay], the second day?
131
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
able to do simultaneous interpreting, as they are tested in it as part of their
mandatory proficiency examination (New York State Unified Court System
2008:3). Moreover, as noted, simultaneous interpreting is generally expected,
although not mandated, in courtroom situations when LOTE speakers are
unaddressed recipients. However, these policies do not take into account that
simultaneous interpreting is a complex task that requires intensive training
(Pöchhacker 2004:184) and, ideally, the use of specialized equipment. Im-
portantly, simultaneous interpreting is often regarded as placing a heavier
burden on the interpreter’s cognitive-processing capacities than does consec-
utive interpreting (Pöchhacker 2004:100, 172).11
From a psycholinguistic per-
spective, simultaneous interpreting can be described as a “complex language
processing task” (Seeber 2011:185) that poses “extreme language demands”
(Obler 2012:177) because it requires the interpreter to multitask by perform-
ing language comprehension and production at the same time, in two differ-
ent languages. This places a high burden on working memory that increases
with the rate of input (Seeber 2011:186). As a consequence, simultaneous in-
terpreters at conferences take frequent breaks, and their working conditions
are designed to minimize disruption. At international institutions like the
United Nation or the European Parliament, this often has them working in a
soundproof booth, hearing the source speaker via headphones and speaking
to the recipients over a microphone. In addition, they translate in one direc-
tion only. Clearly, the conditions for simultaneous interpreting are usually
very different in the courtroom (except at high-profile courts like the Interna-
tional Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia in The Hague, see Elias-
Bursać 2012). In New York small claims court, like in other courtrooms in the
United States, simultaneous interpreting is performed without any support-
ing equipment, and by interpreters who are not trained in the task to the same
extent that conference interpreters are. As small claims court is in session at
night, the interpreters are working overtime, and I observed only once that
an interpreter requested a break during a long hearing. Instead, there may
be considerable distractions in the courtroom as in excerpts (3) through (7),
and interpreters routinely encounter overlapping speech. Given these condi-
tions, it seems unrealistic to expect court interpreters to perform simulta-
neous interpreting to the standards that are required. The data collected in
this study show that simultaneous interpreting in small claims court regularly
leads to loss of information because interpreters do not have enough time to
translate, especially if they need to rephrase a false start (see, for example,
line 13 in excerpt (11) above). Similar observations have been made in studies
of court interpreting in other jurisdictions (see Berk-Seligson 1990:125–126;
Jacobsen 2012:224). Without a doubt, the likelihood that interpreters produce
close renditions is much greater if they work in short consecutive mode than
if they work in simultaneous mode (see, e.g., Lee 2011:27). Thus, it is hard to
argue with Yves’ contention that he will “do the job better” (line 12) if he can
Speak English or What?
132
interpret consecutively. The fact that he insists on doing a better job when
translating for the benefit of the claimant rather than for the benefit of the
arbitrator corresponds to his target-oriented approach to interpreting that
was described in Chapter 4.
Simultaneous interpreting is especially challenging when it involves
source-speaker changes—that is, when interpreters translate dialogue be-
tween English-speaking participants, such as between an arbitrator and an
English-speaking litigant. In such situations, source speakers typically inter-
act with one another as if no interpreter were present. The interpreter is likely
to “fall behind” as they alternate turns and sometimes produce overlapping
talk with each other. This is illustrated in excerpt (14), from a dispute between
a Spanish-speaking welfare recipient and her landlord, who is represented by
an attorney. In the excerpt, the landlord’s attorney is asking questions that
are intended to elicit testimony from his client, comparable to what is called
a direct examination in a formal court. As noted in Chapter 3, this is unusual
in small claims court, where such questions would more commonly be asked
by an arbitrator. The Spanish interpreter, an Argentine woman in her 30s,
is interpreting for the benefit of the claimant, and she does so in simultane-
ous interpreting mode. Throughout the excerpt her speech overlaps almost
constantly with speech by the defendant or by his lawyer. As she produces a
false start in translating the phrase oral agreement (line 6), she falls behind,
and by the time the attorney asks a new question (line 11), she has not yet
begun translating the prior turn by the defendant. She then proceeds to trans-
late the new question without indicating what the defendant had answered,
thereby omitting his claim that there was no written lease (line 7), potentially
an important piece of testimony. When she interprets the defendant’s next
response, it appears that she again omits part of the source message, but her
rendition is not fully audible in the recording (line 18).
(14)
1 Lawyer: Was that pursuant [to a written lease?]
2
3
Interpreter: [¿Eso era de acuerdo a un contrato] de
arrenda [miento?]
{‘Was it according to a written lease?’}
4 Lawyer: [Or was that]
5 an oral [agreement with Ms. Castro?]
6 Interpreter: [O fue una- un-] un
{‘Or was it an- an-}
7 Defendant: [There was never a lease]
8 Interpreter: [acuerdo oral con la] señora Castro?
{‘oral agreement with Ms. Castro?’}
9 Defendant: (.8) only receipts.
10 Interpreter: (1.1) Co-
133
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
The example illustrates the challenges that interpreters face when inter-
preting dialogue between two English-speaking participants into the LOTE.
As speakers take turns and respond to one another, the interpreter has to
translate quickly, with no room for hesitation or self-correction. Moreover,
as the English speakers orient toward one another (and here also toward the
overhearing arbitrator), it is difficult for the interpreter to draw attention to
any problems that may occur. For example, it appears that the interpreter in
excerpt (14) is trying to point to a trouble source of some kind (I’m sorry in
line 19), possibly to the fact that the defendant speaks quietly and is hard to
hear. However, this repair initiator (in conversation analytical terms) is being
ignored by the primary participants, and, as they keep talking to one another,
she resumes her interpretation. This further demonstrates the need for inter-
preters to be assertive if they want to raise concerns with interpreting, as Yves
was shown to be in excerpt (12).
The simultaneous interpretation of dialogue is also challenging in that
it may require the interpreter to identify the source speakers, especially as
the target renditions often overlap with talk by a new speaker. However, as
noted in Chapter 4, such source attributions are not possible if interpret-
ers adhere to the institutional norm of direct translation. Consequently,
it may not always be transparent to the target recipient whose voice the
interpreter is translating and when speaker change occurs, especially
when interpreters render two separate turns by different speakers in a
single utterance of their own (i.e., with no pause or other interactional cue
11 Lawyer: So how did you and Miss [Castro]
12 Interpreter: [Cómo]
{‘How’}
13 Lawyer: [agree on the seven hundred fifty dollar amount?]
14 Interpreter: [¿Cómo- cómo es que Usted y la señora Castro se-]
{‘How is it that you and Ms. Castro’}
15 con- con- [concordaron a estos setecientos cincuenta?]
{‘agreed on these 750?’}
16 Defendant: [Cause when- when they opened] her
17 [case, when she went on welfare, that was the agreement]
18 Interpreter: [Cuando abrieron el caso de ella, eh (xxx xxx xxx)]
{‘when they opened her case, eh xxx’}
19 (1.1) [I’m sorry I-]
20 Defendant: [She had all the] receipts for seven fifty.
21 Interpreter: Ella tiene todos recibos para setecientos [cincuenta]
{‘She has all the receipts for 750’}
22
23
Defendant: [Does she] have
them?
Speak English or What?
134
distinguishing the parts authored by different source speakers).12
A  rel-
evant example is shown in excerpt (15), from the same case as excerpt (11).
Of course, given the pre-allocation of turn types in courtroom talk, it is
possible that recipients will recognize that questions originate with arbi-
trators, for example.
(15)
Arbitrator: Has she paid the rent up to today’s [date?]
Claimant: [She-]
She [paid the old rent.]
Interpreter: [¿Ha pagado? Sí,] la [antigua renta.]
{‘Did she pay? Yes, the old rent.’}
Arbitrator: [the old one?]
An alternative strategy for interpreting question-and-answer pairs was
observed with Jorge and Yves, the two interpreters who were found to request
consecutive interpreting from English-speaking litigants. Both of them pro-
duced renditions in which question and answer were combined into a single
rendition, what Wadensjö (1998:107) terms “summarized renditions.” Ex-
amples are given in excerpts (16) and (17), from an examination phase of the
respective arbitration hearing, in which an arbitrator or attorney asks closed
questions of a litigant or witness to confirm or deny specific aspects of prior
testimony. Such question-and-answer pairs are very typical of courtroom in-
teraction, so their interpretation is a routine part of the court interpreters’
work in formal courts, outside of small claims court. As noted by Raymond
(2003), such questions are often designed to anticipate a specific response.
For example, a declarative with a question intonation as found in excerpt
(16) is designed to elicit a “yes” response, and this enables the interpreter to
anticipate the response and thus to combine question and answer into a single
rendition.
(16)
Arbitrator: And the computer doesn’t work?
Defendant: E [xactly!]
Interpreter: [Kompute]-a pa travay.
{‘The computer doesn’t work.’}
(17)
Attorney: Is that your car?
Witness: (.5) That’s correct.
Interpreter: Es el carro de él.
{‘It’s his car.’}
135
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
This practice of combining question-and-answer pairs into single sum-
marized renditions does not conform to the professional norms for court in-
terpreting, but it has the advantage that it represents the testimony of the
opposing party, in contrast to excerpt (14) above, where the interpreter trans-
lated the attorney’s questions but left out much of the defendant’s answers. In
excerpts (16) and (17), the interpreters’ renditions are not “verbatim” transla-
tions of source speech, but they can be viewed as accurate representations of
the speech acts that witnesses are deemed to perform by confirming the ques-
tion posed to them. These renditions thus fulfill the purpose of informing the
LOTE-speaking litigant about the testimony of the opposing party or of a
witness. Along with the preference for consecutive interpretation of English
narratives shown above and the deictic shifts shown in Chapter 4, they con-
verge in creating an interpreting style that is highly target-oriented—that is,
that places the needs of the target recipient above court-interpreting norms
(see also Angermeyer 2009).
Disadvantages resulting from the distribution of interpreting modes
The analysis in this chapter has demonstrated that there are problems with
both consecutive and simultaneous interpreting modes, which interfere with
the ability of LOTE speakers to participate in the proceedings in the same
way English speakers do. As shown in the discussion of excerpts (3) to (7),
consecutive interpreting causes problems for the source speaker in caus-
ing extended turns to be fragmented, making them less coherent and more
prone to interruptions. In addition, there is a lack of back-channeling, which
makes it more difficult for the interlocutors to check their understanding of
the others’ contributions. By contrast, simultaneous interpreting does not
cause fragmentation, nor does it interfere with back-channeling between the
speaker and addressee. As seen above, English-speaking litigants can nar-
rate testimony (see excerpt (11)) or respond to questioning (see excerpt (14))
in the same way that they would if no interpreter were present at all. This is
not true, however, for the target recipient. As seen in the same excerpts, when
interpreters translate simultaneously, they are often unable to produce close
renditions of all that has been said, and as a consequence LOTE-speaking
litigants may remain unaware of some parts of the testimony, unless they
have understood in English. Such omissions are less likely to occur with con-
secutive interpreting, as long as the interpreter is not interrupted by other
participants. In summary, consecutive interpreting causes communication
problems for the source speaker, whereas simultaneous interpreting causes
communication problems for the target recipient. But given the habitual dis-
tribution of the two interpreting modes in the courtroom, these problems
are experienced only by LOTE speakers and not by their English-speaking
Speak English or What?
136
opponents. This amounts to a structural disadvantage for LOTE speakers
in court, who are more easily interrupted and less likely to be aware of all
relevant information in the case.
These findings raise questions about the common practice of distributing
interpreting modes in this manner in the courtroom. As noted above, this dis-
tribution is customary in many jurisdictions and is sometimes even mandated
by legal guidelines on court interpreting. In New York state, the guidelines
for court interpreters state that consecutive mode “shall be used when LEP
[Limited English Proficiency] or deaf or hard of hearing persons are giving
testimony, or are in direct dialogue with the judge, counsel or an officer of
the court” (New York State Unified Court System 2008:7). By contrast, the
use of simultaneous interpreting mode is not mandated, although the manual
notes that it is “most often used in opening and closing statements and any
ongoing exchanges” (p. 7). Consequently, courts could decide to abandon the
use of simultaneous interpreting in light of the problems with its use in the
courtroom, and if interpreters have not been especially trained in this prac-
tice and lack appropriate equipment. Instead, consecutive interpreting could
be used for all parts of a hearing to increase the likelihood that the interpreter
produces close renditions of all source talk and to ensure that both parties
testify under the same conditions (although this would in many cases in-
crease the amount of time spent per hearing). However, the distribution arises
not solely from institutional norms but also from differences in the extent
to which speakers and addressees orient toward the presence of the inter-
preter. When an English speaker interacts with a LOTE speaker, pauses arise
“naturally” because interlocutors have to wait for the interpreter to under-
stand what the other person has said. But when two English speakers interact
with each other, they will not make pauses for interpretation unless they are
explicitly told to do so and make a deliberate effort. As shown in excerpts
(12) and (13), some interpreters with an assertive personality are prepared
to interrupt participants to request consecutive interpreting, but given the
participant hierarchy in courtroom discourse, they do so only with litigants,
not with legal professionals. Consequently, an instruction to use consecutive
interpreting would have to be given by the court administration and enforced
by the presiding judge or arbitrator in order to be used consistently. In their
study of court interpreting per video link for defendants who are in prison
rather than in the courtroom, Licoppe and Vernier (2013) discuss examples in
which a judge instructs a prosecutor to subdivide an extended turn into short
chunks for the purpose of interpreting, and also interrupts the prosecutor to
give a turn to the interpreter.13
It is difficult to imagine that interpreters could
themselves interrupt a prosecutor’s speech in this way. This illustrates that,
for interpreter-mediated interaction to result in successful communication,
all participants have to be aware of the challenges in the interpreting process
and collaborate with the interpreter. Where this does not occur, the question
137
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
arises to what extent the disadvantages of interpreter-mediated interaction
are outweighed by the advantages it provides to litigants with limited L2 flu-
ency in the language of the court. This will be addressed in the final section.
Against an “all-or-nothing” rule of language choice: When do litigants
“need” an interpreter?
All LOTE speakers I observed made use of their limited L2 proficiency in
English, as will be discussed in more detail in the following chapter. However,
as shown in excerpts (1) and (2), and also in examples discussed in Chapter
1, they are routinely instructed by arbitrators and interpreters to speak in
their LOTE rather than in L2 English. This illustrates an expectation of indi-
vidual monolingualism that is also apparent when litigants are criticized by
their opponents for not speaking English (see also Chapter 1). Litigants are
categorized either as speakers of English or as speakers of another language,
and they are expected to use only one language throughout the hearing. In
this “all-or-nothing” view of language choice, no distinction is made between
speaking and understanding, or between different speech situations within a
hearing (Angermeyer 2008). These ideological assumptions are not consistent
with research in second-language acquisition and bilingual education, which
has demonstrated the need to differentiate between different types of active
and receptive competence. In a highly influential conceptualization, Cum-
mins (1979, 1984) distinguishes between Basic Interpersonal Communicative
Skills (BICS), which can be understood as the ability to participate in face-
to-face conversation by relying on contextual information, and Cognitive
Academic Language Proficiency (CALP), which is the ability to use academic
language with minimal contextual information. These two types of compe-
tence are acquired separately and independently, and Cummins argues that
second-language learners often developed BICS earlier than CALP. Eades
(2003:116) applies this distinction to the legal sphere, noting that a defendant
who appears “quite fluent and articulate in answering basic biographical
questions” may nonetheless lack the language proficiency to understand and
respond to complex questions. Along similar lines, Pavlenko (2008) presents
a case study in which she assesses the English proficiency of a Russian-born
defendant in a U.S. murder case. Examining data from police interrogations
as well as evidence of the defendant’s personal linguistic and academic his-
tory, Pavlenko finds that the defendant had a high level of interactional com-
petence in English, which allowed her to interact with and be understood by
the interrogating police officers. However, Pavlenko argues that she lacked
the conceptual competence to understand important legal concepts in Eng-
lish, such as the Miranda rights (the right to remain silent in the interrogation
and to have an attorney present) and the waiver of such rights. As noted by
Speak English or What?
138
Solan and Tiersma (2005:82), judges have often been reluctant to accept such
reasoning if defendants have displayed interactional competence.
Regarding specifically the use of interpreters in the courtroom, Valdés
(1990) argues that assessments of a witness’s proficiency should evaluate
the specific linguistic demands that speakers face in courtroom proceed-
ings, such as the display and confirmation of information during testimony.
In particular, Valdés argues that cross-examination requires higher pro-
ficiency than direct examination, because it involves the need to anticipate
and respond to challenges, or to maintain the floor “in the face of efforts to
interrupt or change the floor” (p. 26). Méndez (1997:91) builds on Valdés’s
findings to argue that a person who can follow the proceedings in English
may still need interpreting as a witness, especially during cross-examination.
As shown throughout this study, small claims court makes its own set of de-
mands of litigants with limited proficiency in English, which to some extent
differ from those found in formal courts, especially if litigants appear pro se.
The need to tell one’s “story” of the dispute arguably, though, places similar
demands as in direct examination, which may involve narrative testimony
as well. In many cases, such as most disputes about housing, work, defec-
tive merchandise, or car accidents, these claim narratives require primarily
interactional competence, or BICS, as they involve relatively simple descrip-
tions of events and do not require an understanding of legal concepts or the
use of low-frequency lexical items. Moreover, the narratives allow litigants to
engage with English-speaking arbitrators in face-to-face interaction where
the interlocutors’ understanding can be checked and meaning can be negoti-
ated. By contrast, CALP is clearly required when litigants need to under-
stand legal arguments presented to them by arbitrators, for example during
the consent briefing or if there are formal problems with a claim (see Chapter
3). It may also be required during questioning, if questioners rely on legal
concepts or phrase their questions in syntactically complex ways not found in
everyday conversation. Finally, litigants need to understand the testimony of
the opposing party. BICS may often be sufficient for this task, but, from an
interactional perspective, L2 comprehension may be impeded in such situa-
tions by the recipient’s overhearer status, which prevents the LOTE speaker
from checking his or her understanding or from having others attend to it, so
that misunderstandings cannot become apparent to the speaker or to other
participants.
These factors suggest that for litigants with high BICS proficiency in
English, the “need” for interpreter assistance is not necessarily constant
throughout the hearing. Some litigants may well be capable of giving nar-
rative testimony in English (like Mr. Bessonov in the case discussed at the
beginning of this chapter), but this does not mean that they are able to under-
stand everything that other participants say in English. They are still likely to
benefit from interpreting when arbitrators discuss legal concepts, for example.
139
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
Thus, while some authors, like Méndez (1997), suggest that interpreting is
more important when LOTE speakers speak than when they listen, the op-
posite may be true with pro se litigants in small claims court, who are typi-
cally not subject to cross-examination. To my knowledge, this question has
not been investigated empirically, but a recent experimental study by Reit­
-
hofer (2013) in a conference-interpreting setting investigated listener compre-
hension of interpreted speech compared to speech in the listeners’ L2 and
found that test subjects understood the content better in the interpreted ver-
sion (the subjects were German speakers with high proficiency in L2 English).
Given the fact that many jurisdictions derive the legal right to court inter-
preting from a defendant’s right to understand the charges brought against
him or her (Angermeyer 2013), it could be argued that interpreting is in fact
more important to ensure comprehension, particularly as any problems with
L2 comprehension will be less apparent than problems with L2 production.
The notion that interpreting could be used in some parts of a hearing
but not others is further supported by the findings discussed in this chapter,
which suggest that interpreting is not equally beneficial in all situations, such
as for example when narrative testimony is being fragmented by consecutive
interpreting. As a consequence, it appears that the rights of litigants would
be better served if courts adopted a more flexible approach to court inter-
preting rather than taking an all-or-nothing approach in which litigants are
discouraged from testifying in English, as seen in excerpt (1) above. Such a
flexible approach to language choice occurred in one case I observed, an in-
quest hearing in a claim about unpaid work brought by a Spanish-speaking
contractor (see Angermeyer 2008:390). As shown in excerpt (18), a language-
negotiation sequence is resolved in favor of the claimant’s use of English, but
the interpreter remains present in the room, retreating into self-described
“standby mode” (line 18) to assist the claimant when necessary.
(18)
1 Arbitrator: In- uh normally I’m an arbitrator +
2 Interpreter: Normalmente soy un arbitro +
{‘Normally, I’m an arbitrator’}
3 Arbitrator: (.) In these kinda cases where it’s an inquest +
4 Interpreter: En estos- ¿Usted entiende lo que ella dice?
{‘In these- Do you understand what she says?’}
5 Claimant: Eh sí, (bastante).
{‘Uh, yes, enough.’}
6 Interpreter: (.) Entonces prefiere que yo la deje hablar eh sin traducírselo?
{‘So do you prefer that I let her talk, without translating it?’}
7 Claimant: (.) Algunas cosas.
{‘Some things.’}
Speak English or What?
140
Unlike in other instances, like excerpt (1) above, when litigants speak
English and are told not to, the issue of language choice is here raised by the
interpreter, who apparently senses that the claimant understands the arbitra-
tor’s introductory remarks in English (line 4). Ironically, interpreting is made
even less necessary by the arbitrator’s (nonnative) knowledge of Spanish,
demonstrated in lines 11, 15, and 16. The hearing was conducted in English
and the interpreter stayed in the background (giving administrative advice
to the arbitrator at the end). Stand-by interpreting also occurred occasion-
ally in cases in which both parties were speakers of the same LOTE, but one
was a proficient bilingual, who testified in English. Since the interpreter was
there translating for the other party, such bilingual litigants could turn to the
interpreter for assistance, if necessary.14
In addition, interpreters can moni-
tor the interaction for communication problems and intervene on their own,
resuming interpretation for example when litigants hesitate to respond to a
question, as in Mr. Bessonov’s second hearing in excerpt (9).
Such standby interpreting is arguably the routine mode of interpreting in
some nonprofessional interpreting contexts. For example, when immigrant
children translate for their parents in institutional settings, they are likely to
act as interpreters only ad hoc, whenever they believe that communication is
otherwise not successful (see, e.g., Meyer 2004:128; and also Bolden 2012 on
the concept of “language brokering”). The selective use of interpreting has
also been described in some courtroom contexts. Kadric (2001:218) mentions
the use of standby mode in Austrian courts and proposes that interpreters
should be trained in deciding when their assistance is required. Ng (2009:125)
notes that interpreters in Hong Kong courts sometimes skip simultaneous
interpreting into Cantonese “if a litigant shows signs of understanding a fair
amount of English.” Cooke (1996) presents a detailed study of an Australian
8 Interpreter: (.6) [(No qu-)
{‘No xx.’}
9 Claimant: [Cuando yo-] cuando yo: no entiendo algo yo le pregunto.
{‘When I, when I don’t understand something, I ask you.’}
10 Interpreter: Okay. When-
11 Arbitrator: I got it.
12 Interpreter: Yeah-
13 Arbitrator: {laughs}
14 Interpreter: So (.) I will- [I will-]
15 Arbitrator: [When you] don’t understand,
16 you’re [gonna ask] [questions.]
17 Claimant: [Yeah yeah]
18 Interpreter: [I will be] in standby mode.
19 Arbitrator: Standby mode, okay.
141
Testifying in another language: What’s lost in translation
murder trial with an Aboriginal defendant who spoke English but was also
assisted by an interpreter during the trial. According to Cooke, the defen-
dant’s claim that she killed her boyfriend in self-defense relied strongly on
her ability to persuasively narrate her experience of domestic abuse. While
she was able to narrate in English, Cooke (1996:286) argues that “access to an
interpreter at the trial was a significant aid in her narration . . . The fact that
she spoke mainly English does not detract from the linguistic empowerment
that interpreting assistance gave her at those points when deficiency in her
second language blocked her expressive capacity.” In ways that are relevant
for language choice in smalls claims court, Cooke also argues that miscom-
munication is much more likely to occur when nonnative speakers respond to
questions, such as during cross-examination or police interviews, than when
they narrate freely and independently. For persons with good interactional
proficiency in the language of the court, “standby mode” is thus arguably a
suitable form of interpreter mediation. In small claims court, standby mode
allows litigants to communicate directly with the arbitrator and thus to avoid
the problems inherent with consecutive interpreting, while at the same time
providing them with support if their limited proficiency gives rise to prob-
lems of expression or comprehension.
6
Codeswitching in the courtroom
In the previous chapter, I showed that litigants who speak a language other
than English (LOTE) have a strong incentive to speak English during the
hearing, particularly when they narrate the story of their claim and want
to avoid a fragmentation of their narrative by consecutive interpreting. As
was shown in the discussion of Mr. Bessonov’s case, some litigants are able
to narrate their claim in L2 English, but this is obviously not true for all
litigants who have requested an interpreter. However, even litigants who ap-
peared to have very limited proficiency used some English at some point in
the hearing—that is, they engaged in what is often called codeswitching in
bilingualism studies (Milroy & Muysken 1995; Gardner-Chloros 2009). Some
alternated between English and their other language repeatedly and pro-
duced even extended turns in English. For others, codeswitching consisted
merely of answering yes or no to an interpreted question, or of inserting one
or two English words into sentences that were otherwise in another language.
In fact, every single litigant in the dataset produced at least one instance of
codeswitching to English.1
This chapter will explore when and how litigants
codeswitch and how arbitrators and interpreters react to this.
Codeswitching is rarely mentioned in studies of interpreter-mediated
interaction (but see Müller 1989; Meyer & Zeevaert 2002; Anderson 2012;
and Meyer 2012) because scholars generally assume a communication bar-
rier posed by “a perfect and reciprocal absence of knowledge of the other’s
language by both of the principal interlocutors” (Davidson 2002:1293). Sim-
ilarly, the legal rationale for court interpreting rests on the assumption that
litigants who are assisted by an interpreter cannot speak English at all. On
the other hand, guidelines for court interpreters in New York state refer to
LOTE-speaking litigants as “Limited English Proficiency” (LEP) persons,
implying that they may have some knowledge of English (New York State
Unified Court System 2008:1). In addition, other participants may also have
142
143
Codeswitching in the courtroom
knowledge of the LOTE. As mentioned above, some arbitrators and court
officers speak Spanish natively or as a second language (see excerpt (18) in
Chapter 5). In addition, many cases involve two parties with the same LOTE
background, but only one side chooses to use the interpreter, while the other
(typically the defendant) speaks English. In such cases it happens occasion-
ally that the English-speaking party switches into the other language when
addressing the opponent (although judges and arbitrators may object to this).
Finally, some LOTE-speaking litigants also hire bilingual attorneys with
whom they can speak in their first language. As a consequence of these fac-
tors, interpreter-mediated interaction in small claims court can be under-
stood as a form of bilingual interaction, in which several (and sometimes
all) participants are bilingual, but with different levels of proficiency in their
respective languages (Angermeyer 2010). Consequently, it is not surprising
that the interaction between them includes various phenomena of bilingual
speech that are comparable to those described in research on bilingualism.
While these phenomena are found in the speech of all participants (including
interpreters and, rarely, arbitrators), this chapter will primarily focus on the
language use of litigants.
Studies of bilingual speech commonly distinguish whether bilingual
speakers switch languages between sentences or whether they use material
from both languages within a single sentence. While the term codeswitch-
ing is often used as a cover term for both of these forms of bilingual speech
(Poplack 1980; Myers-Scotton 1993a; Gardner-Chloros 2009), I follow Auer
(1984, 1995, 1998b) and other conversation analysis–oriented studies in re-
serving this term to describe instances where speakers change their choice of
language for the current stretch of talk. This often occurs at turn boundar-
ies, but also within a turn. When speakers combine elements from both lan-
guages into a single utterance, I will use the term code-mixing, following Auer
(1984) and Muysken (2000). The most common type of code-mixing involves
the use of single lexical items or phrases from one language (usually English)
into a structure from another language (usually the LOTE). Following Auer
(1998b) and Muysken (2000:3), I will refer to this phenomenon as insertion.
Early research in bilingualism tended to view codeswitching and code-
mixing as symptoms of “interference”—that is, of a bilingual speaker’s
lack of proficiency or failure to keep the two languages separate (Weinreich
1968). At a macrosociolinguistic level, these bilingual speech phenomena
were seen as precursors of language shift, or at best as outcomes of a socie-
tal distribution of languages by topic or interactional situation (i.e., diglos-
sia, Ferguson 1959). By contrast, later researchers who were able to rely on
audiorecorded data of bilingual speech came to regard these phenomena in
more positive terms. For example, Poplack (1980) argues that intimate intra-
sentential codeswitching (i.e., code-mixing) is indicative of speakers’ bilin-
gual competence. And, following Blom and Gumperz (1972) and Gumperz
Speak English or What?
144
(1982a), researchers have come to regard codeswitching and code-mixing
as socially meaningful, both in the local context of the interaction and as
a marker of bilingual identity more generally (Auer 1984; Myers-Scotton
1993b; Heller 1995; Li Wei 1998; Auer 1998b; Woolard 1999). But while re-
searchers initially saw the social meaning of codeswitching as derived from
the indexical values of the particular languages (see the notion of “meta-
phorical codeswitching” in Blom & Gumperz 1972), Auer (1995:119) notes
that “[m]any investigations have shown that the mere fact of juxtaposing
two codes can have a signalling value of its own,” so that the conversational
meaning cannot always be explained by an “association between languages
and speech activities.”
Any analysis of codeswitching and code-mixing presupposes that lin-
guistic forms can be unambiguously attributed to a particular language. But,
as noted by Woolard (1999), this is not necessarily the case, as speakers may
strategically use ambiguous forms that “belong” to both languages, or may
alternate between languages in a way that avoids a commitment to a par-
ticular language (Heller 1982). Moreover, as I will show below in discuss-
ing disagreements between litigants and interpreters, speakers of the same
language do not always agree on which words “belong” to it. At the same
time, interpreter-mediated interaction differs from other forms of bilingual
speech in that it makes the boundaries between the languages highly sali-
ent. As Wadensjö (1998:277) writes, “[T]he activity of translation demands
that two separate linguistic entities are recognized and a gap between them
is sustained. [. . .] [T]he languages currently being used by those requiring the
intervention of an interpreter are consequently treated as separate linguistic
domains.” As a result, both codeswitching and insertion pose a challenge to
interpreter-mediated interaction and alter it in important ways, as will be
shown in this chapter.
Studies of codeswitching have often found that bilingual speech phe-
nomena are distributed unevenly across language contact situations. While
insertion is arguably the most basic phenomenon of bilingual speech, the
distribution of code-mixing of grammatical features from two languages
appears to be more restricted, occurring only in a subset of the environ-
ments where insertion and (intersentential) codeswitching are found. Auer
(1999:318) points out that code-mixed language use (“language mixing” in his
terms) seems to be characteristic of balanced bilinguals who have developed
a specific bilingual identity and whose mixed way of speaking “sometimes
has a folk name.” Similarly, Poplack (1980:589–590) sees a clear distinction
between on the one hand the “emblematic codeswitching” of nonfluent bi-
linguals and on the other hand the “intimate intra-sentential codeswitching”
used by fluent bilinguals in ingroup conversation. Emblematic codeswitching
involves the insertion of single nouns or of discourse markers and other ele-
ments that do not require any integration into the grammatical structure of
145
Codeswitching in the courtroom
the recipient language (“tag-switching”). Such a distinction can also be found
in the courtroom data, as some litigants’ use of English was limited to single
insertions or tag-switches, while others switched at turn boundaries and pro-
duced entire utterances in English. By contrast, code-mixing of the type that
Poplack describes as “intimate” occurred very rarely in the data and was
criticized by interpreters, arguably because it challenged the distinction of
the two languages that is necessary for the activity of translation (see excerpt
(2) in Chapter 5). Consequently, this chapter will be divided into two main
parts, focusing first on codeswitching, and then on insertion, before turning
to an analysis of the consequences of these bilingual speech practices for the
interaction in the courtroom.
Codeswitching
A THEORY OF CODESWITCHING IN INTERPRETER-MEDIATED INTERACTION
As noted above, codeswitching is rarely addressed in studies of interpreting,
but the reverse is true as well. Studies of codeswitching have not been con-
cerned with interpreting and translation, and interpreter-mediated interac-
tion has not been considered as falling within the scope of data sources for
such research (see Angermeyer 2010). One reason for this is that codeswitch-
ing (in the wider sense) is often perceived as an informal speech style that
occurs in informal ingroup settings (e.g., Backus 1996:41) and is best observed
by researchers who are bilingual community members (e.g., Poplack 1980:595;
Zentella 1997a:7; Nortier 2008:40). However, codeswitching has also been ob-
served in interaction between bilingual speakers from different communi-
ties (i.e., exolingual bilingual interaction, Lüdi 1987), most notably by Heller
(1982) in research on French–English bilingualism in Canada, and by Myers-
Scotton (1993b) on multilingualism in East Africa. This situation also bears a
resemblance to ingroup interaction where significant differences in language
preference exist between members of different generations, as described
in research by Auer (1984) and Li Wei (1994), among others. In such con-
texts, participants are often found to negotiate which language is to be used
as the common language of interaction, apparently out of a “preference for
same language talk” (Auer 1984:23–24). Codeswitching occurs both during
this language negotiation phase and again whenever one speaker abandons
the consensus and introduces a new language of interaction. In an influen-
tial paper, Auer (1995) proposes a pragmatic theory of codeswitching that
models these two sequential environments and assigns different contextual
meanings to them. When speakers begin by speaking different languages, an
eventual switch can be understood as preference-related, in that it occurs in
the direction toward the preference of a given participant. By contrast, when
a common language of interaction has been established, Auer (1995:125)
Speak English or What?
146
interprets subsequent codeswitching as discourse-related—that is, as “con-
textualizing some feature of the conversation, e.g. a shift in topic, participant
constellation, activity type, etc.” Interpreter-mediated interaction is of the
first type as the primary participants speak different languages, so that, by
definition, there is no common language of interaction for all participants.
This divergent language choice is reminiscent of patterns that have been de-
scribed in some multilingual communities undergoing language shift, where
members of different generations have divergent preferences of language
choice (Gal 1979:110; Dabène & Moore 1995:30). Such sustained unrecipro-
cal language use is schematized as “pattern IIa” by Auer (1995:125) in his
typology of code alternation sequences, as shown in (1) in the figure below.
This schema, in which speaker 1 speaks language A and speaker 2 speaks
language B, can be adapted to describe interpreter-mediated interaction by
adding turns of the interpreter (speaker 0) after every turn, as shown in (1’).
(1)  Pattern IIa: 
A1     
B2     
A1     
B2     
A1     
B2     
A1     
B2
(Auer 1995:125)
(1’) PatternIIα: 
A1 
B0 
B2 
A0 
A1 
B0 
B2 
A0 
A1 
B0 
B2 
A0 
A1 
B0 
B2
In unreciprocal language use, as well as in interpreted discourse, lan-
guage alternation occurs in regular intervals, after each turn by a (primary)
participant (speakers 1 and 2 in the schema). However, these instances of
language alternation are not examples of true codeswitching, because there
is always a “structurally determined (and therefore predictable) return into
the first language” (Auer 1984:26). A sequential analysis of codeswitching in
interpreter-mediated interaction thus has to take into account that interpret-
ers are expected to alternate between languages when they translate from
one language into the other. To be interactionally salient as codeswitching, a
speaker’s language choice therefore has to run counter to the expected distri-
bution of languages in the interpreter-mediated interaction. As such, it can
be modeled after language negotiation sequences in bilingual discourse. Auer
(1995:125) argues that the pattern of divergent language choice illustrated in
(1) is often dissolved when one participant accommodates to the interlocu-
tor’s preferred language (i.e., engaging in preference-related codeswitching).
This is schematized in (2), with speaker 2 converging to the choice of lan-
guage A by speaker 1.
(2)	 Pattern IIb:     
A1     
B2     
A1     
B2     
A1 // A2     
A1     
A2     
A1
(Auer 1995:125)
Auer’s pattern IIb can be adapted to interpreted discourse to illustrate
the convergence by one speaker to the language choice of the other. This
is shown in (2’), where speaker 2 switches to language A, in response to a
preceding turn in language A by speaker 1. This switch can either occur in
147
Codeswitching in the courtroom
direct response or after a translation by the interpreter. Furthermore, this
codeswitch may render subsequent turns by the interpreter unnecessary, as
speakers 1 and 2 are now using the same language of interaction, although
this may be only temporary.
(2’)	 Pattern IIβ:     
A1 
B0 
B2 
A0 
A1 
B0 
B2 
A0 
A1 
(B0) 
// 
A2    A1 (B0) A2
The schema shown in (2’) illustrates codeswitching at the beginning of
a speaker’s turn. Codeswitching can also occur during a speaker’s turn, es-
pecially during extended turns. As was shown in Chapter 5, extended turns
are habitually interrupted by consecutive interpreting, so codeswitching may
occur either during an uninterrupted segment or when the speaker reprises
an extended turn after having paused for the interpreter. This is illustrated
in pattern IIγ shown in (3). Again, speaker 1 uses language A, which is trans-
lated into language B by the interpreter (speaker 0). Speaker 2 initially uses
language B, which is translated into language A by the interpreter, but then
speaker 2 switches to language A (which may or may not be repeated by the
interpreter). A parallel sequence is described in pattern IIδ, except that the
switch occurs before the interpreter has translated speaker 2’s words into lan-
guage A.
(3)	 Pattern IIγ:     
A1 
B0 
B2 
A0 // A2 (A0)
	PatternIIδ:       A1 
B0 
B2 
// A2 (A0)
This sequential approach is theoretically independent of the languages,
as codeswitching may be produced by any participant and in any direction
(from language A to language B or vice versa). However, in interpreter-
mediated interaction in small claims court, codeswitching is found only in
the speech of LOTE-speaking litigants, not in the speech of arbitrators.2
LOTE speakers are found to switch to English, following the patterns IIβ
through IIδ, and after having done so, they may switch back to the LOTE at a
later point. In both cases, codeswitching can be viewed as preference-related,
as it reflects either a switch toward the interlocutor’s preferred language or a
switch back toward the speaker’s own preferred language, in which he or she
is acknowledged to have greater proficiency. However, this does not rule out
the possibility of a discourse-related interpretation of individual instances of
codeswitching, because the two interpretations are not mutually exclusive.
As noted by Auer (1998b:8), “in pattern IIb, the transition from divergent to
convergent language choices . . . may take on discourse-related meanings,” as
it may occur in a context where this convergence contextualizes some feature
of the conversation and contributes to the interactional meaning of the utter-
ance. This is true of codeswitching in small claims court as well, as will be
discussed in the following sections, which explore different contexts in which
codeswitching occurs, as well as the consequences that codeswitching has for
interpreter-mediated interaction.
Speak English or What?
148
BYPASSING THE INTERPRETER
Whether codeswitching occurs turn-initially or within a turn, or whether
it is interpreted as discourse-related or preference-related, all instances are
alike in that they alter the turn-taking structure of interpreter-mediated in-
teraction. As noted in Chapter 5, the interpreter participates in the organi-
zation of turn taking during consecutive interpreting by taking every second
turn, preventing successive turns by primary participants and relegating one
of them to the temporary status of a bystander during “other-language talk”
(cf. Wadensjö 1998; Roy 2000). It is therefore not surprising that interpreter-
mediated interaction has often been described as two separate dialogues
going on simultaneously (see Lang 1976:342; Urciuoli 1996:100; or Jönsson
1990, as cited by Wadensjö 1998:76) or as consisting of two “parallel and re-
lated conversations” (Jacquemet 2005a). The interpreter participates in both
of these conversations, but the two primary participants (e.g., the arbitrator
and the claimant) are not directly engaged in a dialogue with one another,
even though they address their utterances to each other. This is illustrated
in excerpt (4) with an example from the dataset, from an inquest hearing of
a Spanish-speaking tenant who is suing her landlord. As can be seen, the
excerpt begins with a question asked by the arbitrator in English (line 1),
which is then translated into Spanish by the interpreter (line 2). The claim-
ant responds in Spanish (lines 3 and 6), which is translated into English by
the interpreter (lines 4, 5, 7, and 9). The claimant then switches to English,
partially repeating the interpreter’s translation of her prior utterance (line
8) and then expanding on it (line 10). Finally, the interpreter repeats ele-
ments from the claimant’s elaboration in English (line 11; see the discussion
of “echoing” below).
(4)
1 Arbitrator: And the paint /fell on the carpet?
2 Interpreter: ¿Y la pintura le cayó a la [alfombra?]
{‘And the paint fell on the carpet?’}
3 Claimant: [le cayó] a la [alfombra.]
{‘it fell on the carpet’}
4 Interpreter: [Yes, it]
5 [fell on the carpet.]
6 Claimant: [me dejó toda la] casa pintada toda.
{‘he left me the entire house painted’}
7 Interpreter: =He left the /entire house painted ah +
8 Claimant: entire [house]
9 Interpreter: [stained]
10 Claimant: the kitchen, in the lobby, [and the-]
11 Interpreter: [kitchen,] the lobby.
149
Codeswitching in the courtroom
FIGURE 6.1  Adjacency pairs in interpreted interaction
Arbitrator
LOTE - speaking
litigant
Interpreter
1. And the paint fell on the carpet?
2. ¿Y la pintura le cayó a la alfombra? 3. le cayó a la alfombra
4. Yes, it fell on the carpet
.
Before turning to the effect of codeswitching, I will first discuss the initial
four turns (lines 1–4), which conform to the expected turn-taking sequence of
consecutive interpreting. In conversation analytic terms, these turns contain
two adjacency pairs that can be attributed to two “parallel” conversational
floors. A question in English by the arbitrator (line 1) receives an answer in
English that is spoken by the interpreter (lines 4–5). A question in Spanish
by the interpreter (line 2) is answered in Spanish by the claimant (line 3). The
Spanish adjacency pair is embedded within the English one. These adjacency
pairs are schematized in Figure 6.1. The arrows represent utterances, emanat-
ing from the speaker and directed at the recipient (not the addressee; see the
discussion of Goffman’s footing model in Chapter 4).
As Figure 6.1 shows, communication “flows through” the interpreter,
and there is no direct interaction between arbitrator and LOTE-speaking
litigant—that is, neither of them produces utterances designed to be received
by the other. Codeswitching, however, causes a deviation from the estab-
lished structures of participation and turn taking in interpreted interaction.
By switching to English in lines 8 and 10, the Spanish-speaking claimant tem-
porarily “bypasses” the interpreter and directly directs her statement at the
arbitrator. This is illustrated in Figure 6.2.
This “bypassing” of the interpreter and direct addressing of the arbitra-
tor is reminiscent of Gumperz’s (1982a:77) observation that codeswitching
may be used for “addressee specification” in multiparty interaction (see also
Auer 1995:120; Gardner-Chloros 2009:79). That is, if different participants
are associated with different languages, then the choice of a particular lan-
guage can help in singling out a specific addressee. Of course, the arbitrator
is also the ultimate addressee of talk in the LOTE, but this status is made
more explicit by choosing English, especially if litigants show signs of treat-
ing the interpreter as their interlocutor in the LOTE (see, e.g., Mr. Bessonov’s
use of Russian in excerpt (2) in Chapter 5). Thus, when litigants codeswitch
like in line 8 above, they temporarily redefine the nature of the interaction
Speak English or What?
150
from a bilingual interpreted interaction with three participants to a monolin-
gual interaction with two participants. The same is true when codeswitching
occurs turn-initially in response to a question, as shown for example in Chap-
ter 5, where Mr. Bessonov, the Russian-speaking claimant in the car accident
case, responded in English to interpreted questions. Finally, it can occur also
when a participant speaks without having been giving a turn by the previous
speaker—that is, when a participant self-selects. This will be discussed in the
following section.
CODESWITCHING FOR SELF-SELECTED TURNS
As noted in Chapter 3, courtroom talk differs from other types of interaction
in that turn taking is highly regulated, so that turn selection and turn types
are largely pre-allocated (Atkinson & Drew 1979; Komter 2013:621). This is
true of arbitration hearings as well, despite their relative informality. Self-
selection by litigants is thus rare because it violates this pre-allocated turn-
taking format. Nonetheless, litigants attempt to self-select as next speakers
under certain circumstances, especially when wanting to refute an accusation
made by the other party or when the arbitrator has announced that the hear-
ing is coming to an end. This often leads to overlapping talk, and as shown in
Chapter 5, court interpreters generally respond to overlapping talk by giving
priority to the speaker whose turn is institutionally sanctioned, especially
if this is the arbitrator. Chapter 3 included several examples where LOTE
speakers self-selected in the LOTE, speaking when the floor had been given
to their opponent or when the arbitrator was making concluding statements.
These self-selections had mixed results. In excerpt (11), from a case with a
Spanish-speaking tenant, the interpreter refrained from translating and told
the claimant not to speak out of turn (Señora, tiene que dejar que ella hable
‘Ma’am, you have to let her talk’). Excerpt (12) showed a self-selection by a
Russian-speaking defendant, which was not interpreted in full, so that his
FIGURE 6.2  Participant structure of codeswitching in interpreted interaction
Arbitrator
LOTE - speaking
litigant
Interpreter
7. He left the entire house painted ah
9. stained
6. me dejó toda la casa pintada, toda 8. entire house
10. the kitchen, the lobby, and the
151
Codeswitching in the courtroom
counter-accusation was not translated until after the completion of the hear-
ing (on ukral u nas dengi ‘he stole money from us’). Excerpt (6) showed an
example where the interpreter did translate self-selected talk into English,
but the arbitrator then told the litigant to sit down and wait. These examples
suggest that it is difficult for litigants to make themselves heard when they
self-select in the LOTE, as they require the interpreter’s support to do so. By
contrast, English speakers were able to self-select on their own, even if these
turns were not necessarily received positively by arbitrators. Consequently,
it is not surprising that many LOTE speakers are found to codeswitch when
they self-select as the next speaker. One example was shown in Chapter 5, in
the second hearing about the car accident. When the arbitrator asks about
the speed limit, the claimant (Mr. Bessonov) hesitates to answer, but the
Russian-speaking defendant self-selects in English to claim that it was thirty
miles per hour, which is lower than the claimant’s admitted speed at the time
of the accident (see excerpt (9) in Chapter 5).
Another example can be seen in excerpt (5), from a case in which a
Russian-speaking claimant is suing a mortgage broker over a bounced
check. At this point in the hearing, the arbitrator has determined for herself
that the case has to be dismissed, because the claimant has sued the defen-
dant in person instead of the defendant’s company, which is legally respon-
sible. Apparently sensing that the arbitrator is prepared to end the hearing,
the claimant tries to prevent her from doing so, addressing her in English
and asking her to wait (line 5). He wants to refute the arbitrator’s claim
that the defendant is not responsible, and he does so in English, although
with apparent difficulties. In line 6, after some hesitation, he begins to state
why he thinks the defendant is responsible. Before he finishes his sentence,
though, he switches back to Russian, reiterating the initial English clause
this guy at this time (line 6) as on v èto vremja byl ‘he at this time was’ (line 7).
Following the switch back to Russian, the claimant continues in Russian
(lines 10 and 11), which is translated by the interpreter (lines 13–14). As seen
in lines 8 and 12, the bilingual defendant also self-selects in English, deny-
ing the claimant’s accusation before it has been translated into English by
the interpreter.
(5)
1 Arbitrator: Okay, you need to sue [not the employee, but the company.]
2 Interpreter: [Vam nužno sudit’] kompaniju,
{‘You need to sue the company,}
3 a ne [rabot]nika kompanii.
{‘and not the employee of the company’}
4 Claimant: [Ah-]
5 can wait please, yes?And I have a witness.
6 (0.8) This guy at this time- (.)
Speak English or What?
152
7 on v èto vremja byl broker-om v ètoj kompanii-
{‘He was at the time, a broker in this company’}
8 Defendant: =No, [(I never was a broker)], I’m sorry.]=
9 Interpreter: [He was-]
10 Claimant: [(i manager-om)] v ètoj kompanii,]=
{‘and a manager in this company xxx’}
11 =[i segodnja] on tamže.]
{‘(and he’s still there today)’}
12 Defendant: =[Objection!]
13 Interpreter: [He was a broker] and manager]
14 at that company and he’s still there.
Immediately prior to excerpt (5), the claimant had used English to re-
spond to a yes/no question, but otherwise he had spoken Russian almost ex-
clusively, especially when narrating his testimony. Moreover, judging by the
hesitation in line 6 and his switch back to Russian in line 7, it appears that his
proficiency in English is not sufficient for producing extended turns. None-
theless, by using English in line 5, he manages to capture the floor, which he
then continues to hold when he finishes his turn in Russian. The example sug-
gest that codeswitching can play an important role in moments of conflict, as
using English is the most (and often the only) effective way for LOTE-speak-
ing litigants to make themselves heard by other participants. Moreover, by by-
passing the interpreter, litigants accommodate to the language choice of the
arbitrator, and this may be understood as an appeal for understanding. In the
social psychological framework of accommodation theory developed by Giles
and associates (Giles & Smith 1979; Giles, N. Coupland, & J. Coupland 1991),
codeswitching as in excerpt (5) can be understood as an act of convergence—
hat is, as the “reduction of linguistic dissimilarities between speakers” (Cou-
pland 2001:201). Research on accommodation has argued that interpersonal
convergence in face-to-face interaction promotes social approval and com-
munication efficiency. Moreover, convergence may be asymmetrical, because
the participants have different needs and motivations. While litigants seek
the understanding and approval of arbitrators, hoping they will decide the
case in their favor, arbitrators have no such incentive to appeal to litigants.
This distinguishes arbitration hearings from interpreter-mediated medical in-
terviews, where codeswitching has been observed not only in the speech of
patients (Friedland & Penn 2003:101–102; Meyer 2004) but also in the speech
of doctors, where it has been interpreted as conveying empathy (Anderson
2012:139, also Davidson 2002:1293). In small claims court, the need to remain
and appear neutral between the two opposing parties largely prevents arbitra-
tors from displaying empathy, if they were so inclined (see Atkinson 1992),
and hence such codeswitching does not occur. On the other hand, legal pro-
fessionals have been shown to accommodate to nonprofessionals along other
153
Codeswitching in the courtroom
dimensions such as information density (Linell 1991), which are perhaps less
salient and less likely to be interpreted as conveying empathy.3
In general, so-
ciolinguistic research on courtroom discourse has demonstrated the potential
benefits of convergence and the risks of divergent speech styles. For example,
Wodak (1980) and O’Barr (1982) argue that litigants fare better if their variety
or speech style is similar to that of legal decision makers, while Gumperz
(1982b, 2001) and Eades (2008) have shown that witnesses who speak varieties
of English that differ from those of legal decision makers are at risk of being
misunderstood. At the level of legal discourse, Conley and O’Barr (1990) dem-
onstrate that small claims litigants benefit if their approach to the dispute
corresponds to that of the judge (i.e., if both are rule-oriented or both are
relation-oriented, as discussed in ­
Chapter 3).
Litigants thus have a strong incentive to accommodate to the arbitrator,
and this is true especially in situations of conflict. This interpretation cor-
responds to a finding by Anderson (2012:123), who notes that participants
of interpreter-mediated interaction may codeswitch out of “a desire to make
themselves heard at crucial points in the interaction.” This can also be seen
in cases of overt disagreement between litigants and arbitrators, as shown in
excerpt (6), from a case about a refund for a canceled insurance contract. Just
prior to the excerpt shown, the arbitrator has opened the hearing by inviting
narrative testimony from the Haitian-speaking claimant (Please tell the court
what happened 
), but the claimant has instead inquired about the defendant
(Okay anvan m di tribinal la sak pase fo m konnin ki moun mesye a ye ‘Okay,
before I tell the court what happened, I need to know who this gentleman
is’). He is suing an insurance brokerage firm and is apparently surprised that
the person who has come to represent the company in court is not the same
person with whom he had dealt when the dispute originated. As can be seen
in excerpt (6), the arbitrator berates the claimant for having asked this ques-
tion instead of giving testimony. When the claimant tries to defend himself
and explain why he did so, he switches to English (line 9) and then repeats
himself in Haitian Creole (lines 10 and 12).
(6)
1 Arbitrator: And you know, you ask too many questions,
2 Interpreter: [Ou poze twòp- twòp kesyon]
{‘You’re asking too many questions’}
3 Arbitrator: [I asked you to tell the court what happened]
4 and let [the court determine] +
5 Interpreter: [Mwen mande ou] [pou ou koumanse sa.]
{‘I asked you to begin it.’}
6 Arbitrator: [what’s going on as we proceed]
7 Interpreter: Kite [tribinal] [la deside (ki sa)]
{‘Let the court decide what it is’}
Speak English or What?
154
8 Arbitrator: [Okay?]
9 Claimant: [Because I don’t know] this man.
10 M pat konen moun sa a.
{‘I don’t know this person’}
11 Interpreter: Because I don’t know [this person.]
12 Claimant: [M pat konnen] moun sa a.
{‘I don’t know this person’}
13 Interpreter: [I don’t know this person]
14 Arbitrator: [You don’t have to know every-]
15 body that [work for an insurance company either Sir]
16
17
Interpreter: [Ou pa ka konnen tout moun ki travay nan
konpayi]
{‘You can’t know everyone who works for the’}
18 [asirans la misye] +
{‘insurance company, Sir’}
19 Arbitrator: [Just go and present] your [case, please]
20 Interpreter: [Koumanse]
{‘Begin to’}
21 presente ka ou la, s’il vous plait.
{‘present your case, please’}
The claimant’s switch back from English to Haitian Creole in line 10 may
reflect his limited L2 proficiency in English, but it is also reminiscent of what
Auer (1984:77) calls “defensive code-switching,” where a speaker “retreats”
on “his” language out of embarrassment or in an attempt to mitigate the force
of a disagreement. The example thus illustrates Auer’s (1998b:8) claim that
preference-related codeswitching can contextualize discourse-related inter-
pretations, similarly to excerpt (5). In both cases, litigants switch to English
even though their L2 proficiency appears to be quite limited, but they do so at
a moment of tension, when it appears that they want to appeal to the arbitra-
tor directly.
As noted, excerpts (5) and (6) are parallel in that they both involve a
switch to English and a subsequent switch back to the LOTE that acts as
a self-translation, repeating propositional content that had just been given
in English (This guy at this time- on v èto vremja byl in excerpt (5), because
I don’t know this man, m pat konen moun sa a in excerpt (6)). The research
literature on codeswitching in conversation abounds with examples of quasi-
translations, where a speaker utters the same propositional content twice,
once in each language. Auer (1998b:4–5) describes a codeswitching pattern
he calls “non-first firsts,” where a speaker codeswitches to repeat the first
part of an adjacency pair (e.g., a question) that was not responded to, creat-
ing the impression of a self-repair of language choice. According to Auer, this
155
Codeswitching in the courtroom
pattern “is frequent and has been reported in many bilingual communities all
over the world” (see also Li Wei 2005:378). In courtroom interaction, however,
litigants or witnesses are generally limited to producing second-pair parts—
that is, their turns are responses to first-pair parts of judges, attorneys, or
arbitrators (in fact, the arbitrator’s reaction in excerpt (6) shows that litigants
are not supposed to ask questions). Consequently, these quasi-translations
differ from Auer’s category of non-first firsts, but they are parallel to it in
that they come across as a repair of language choice. In interpreter-mediated
interaction, such a repair also represents a return to interpreting mode, as
the litigant directs the repetition at the interpreter, in the shared LOTE. At
an important point of the hearing, the litigant thus produces the same propo-
sitional content twice, first for the arbitrator in English and then in the other
language for the interpreter. The interpreter then produces a second English
version, which serves to confirm the content of the preceding codeswitched
utterance.
Self-translation may also occur in the opposite direction, with the repe-
tition made in English rather than in the LOTE. This is shown in excerpt (7),
from the second hearing about Mr. Bessonov’s car accident (see Chapter 5).
The excerpt is taken from a point of the hearing when the Russian-speaking
defendant is being asked questions about the accident, both by the arbitra-
tor and by the attorney of his own insurance company. The questions focus
on the defendant’s decision to make a left turn into oncoming traffic and his
awareness of the claimant’s car at the time. Specifically, the arbitrator and
the attorney try to determine the relative distance between the claimant’s car
and the intersection at different points in time (when the defendant reached
the intersection, when he decided to make a turn, when he began the turn).
However, the interpreter ignores some of the nuances of these questions, as
well as of the defendant’s answers (see the vagueness of her translation in line
8), thereby making the examination appear more repetitive than it actually
is. The defendant thus becomes increasingly annoyed because he feels that he
is being asked questions he has already answered. With audible frustration
in his voice, he switches to English in line 13, repeating the content of the
preceding Russian words, effectively translating his own words from Russian
into English instead of letting the interpreter do it for him. He continues in
English in lines 15 and 16, prompting the attorney to direct him to speak in
Russian instead (to the interpreter, line 17).
(7)
1 Def. Attorney: Okay, but when you started to turn,
2 was he still the half a block away
3 or had he  [come closer to you?]
4 Interpreter: [Kogda vy stali] povoračivat’,
{‘When you were starting to turn,’}
Speak English or What?
156
Like in excerpts (5) and (6), the defendant’s codeswitch to English
can be viewed as an instance of accommodation and a direct appeal to
understanding from the English-speaking attorney and the arbitrator.
In addition, the quasi-translation again gives the impression of a self-
repair of language choice, but here the defendant treats Russian as the
“wrong” language, and he “corrects” to using English instead of repairing
to the LOTE. This makes his switch to English appear more deliberate
than those in excerpts (5) and (6), and it lends emphasis to his statement.
This example thus corresponds to a common observation about the use of
codeswitching in conversation, namely that it can be used for emphasis.
As noted first by Gumperz (1982a:78), when “a message in one code is re-
peated in the other code . . . such repetitions may . . . amplify or emphasize
the message” (see also Auer 1995:120). This is clearly the case in excerpt
(7), where this sense of emphasis is also conveyed by the tone of the de-
fendant’s voice, which suggests frustration about not having been able to
make his point before.
OTHER PARTICIPANTS’ REACTIONS TO CODESWITCHING
The direction of the repetition (from LOTE to English rather than vice versa)
also influences the reaction of other participants to codeswitching. While
the litigants in excerpts (5) and (6) returned to speaking in their LOTE,
thus framing their codeswitching as a momentary excursion into English,
5 on tak i ostovalsja pol-bloka ot vas,
{‘was he still half a block away from you,’}
6 [ili on byl bliže]
{‘or was he closer.’}
7 Defendant: [Net, on uže priblizil]-sja.
{‘No, he had already gotten closer.’}
8 Interpreter: He was approaching me.
9 Arbitrator: (.7) Okay.
10 Def. Attorney: (1.6) And then he had- did the-
11 did you come into contact with his  [vehicle?]
12 Interpreter: [I zatem] vy stolknulis’?
{‘And then you collided?’}
13 Defendant: (1.1) Ja ostanovilsja, I’m stopped my car.
{‘I stopped’}
14 Def. Attorney: (1.3) Were you stopped when the  [two ve-]
15 Defendant: [Because] I’m saw he’s
16 (.) come to me.
17 Def. Attorney: (.) Okay. (.) To the interpreter.
157
Codeswitching in the courtroom
the defendant in excerpt (7) continues in English (lines 15 and 16), and this
prompts the attorney to interpret his codeswitch as an attempt to switch to
English for the remainder of the interaction, which she rejects. The attor-
ney’s directive to the defendant thus illustrates again the tendency of legal
professionals to discourage LOTE speakers from using English, which was
discussed in Chapters 1 and 5. This institutional preference for the litigants’
use of the LOTE makes codeswitching to English a choice that has the po-
tential to be controversial and may thus be highly salient. By contrast, when
litigants switch from English “back” to the LOTE, this is not met with ad-
verse reactions from arbitrators or interpreters. This is most likely because
other participants attribute this switch to the speaker’s limited proficiency
in English and also because it represents a return to the normative distri-
bution of language choice. This was true even in one case in which a claim-
ant had switched from Spanish to English early on in his testimony and
then spoke only English for most of the hearing, which was rather long (45
minutes). When he switched back to Spanish shortly before the end of the
hearing, the arbitrator did not comment on it and the interpreter resumed
translating.
As pointed out above, codeswitching by litigants temporarily rede-
fines the nature of the interaction from bilingual, interpreter-mediated
interaction to monolingual interaction. In this situation, the interpreter is
theoretically sidelined, and this can be seen in excerpt (7), where the inter-
preter stops speaking once the defendant has switched to English. How-
ever, in other cases, interpreters are often found to react to codeswitching
by simply repeating a litigant’s utterance in English. This was shown in
excerpt (4) above, where the litigant switched to English to describe where
paint stains had occurred (the kitchen, in the lobby) and the interpreter
reiterated this in English (kitchen, the lobby). With such “echoing” of a
codeswitched utterance, the interpreter maintains the expected turn se-
quence in which every second turn is produced by an interpreter, and
thereby reaffirms his or her position in the interaction.4
Echoing is further
illustrated in excerpt (8), which also follows the pattern IIγ, with a liti-
gant giving testimony in the LOTE and switching to English after having
paused for the interpreter (see excerpt (3) above). The example is from a
case between two Polish-speaking litigants, which had been discussed in
detail in Chapter 3 (involving a claim about work, housing, and alleged
theft). The excerpt is from the testimony of the defendant, who is speaking
Polish and pauses midsentence for the interpreter. When he resumes his
turn, he switches to English for an English-specific format of time telling
(eleven pm in line 3), which the interpreter then incorporates into her on-
going rendition of the previous talk (at eleven pm, line 4). The defendant
then continues in Polish, still speaking the same sentence, and the regular
pattern of consecutive interpreting continues.
Speak English or What?
158
In excerpt (8), the codeswitching to English and back to Polish occurs
within a single sentence and does not co-occur with any apparent contextual
changes. This raises the question whether the speaker codeswitches deliber-
ately and is aware of it, or whether the switch to English in line 3 is “triggered”
by the interpreter’s preceding turn (i.e., resulting from a momentary linguistic
“disorientation”; see Clyne 1967). Similar questions about speaker awareness
are raised by apparent examples of self-repair in language choice (as in ex-
cerpt (5) or (6)), suggesting that the initial choice may have been unintentional.
As noted above, research on codeswitching in conversation has consistently
found that it contributes to interactional meaning, and this could be seen to
suggest that it results from speakers’ intentional strategies. However, Woolard
(2004) criticizes the common tendency to characterize codeswitching as stra-
tegic and the perceived need to “prove” its functionality (which is itself a reac-
tion to the attitudes of earlier researchers who saw codeswitching as evidence
of interference and limited bilingual competence; e.g., Weinreich 1968). In-
stead, Woolard (2004:75) suggests that “we might as easily ask why people who
have multiple ‘ways of speaking’ would restrict themselves to a subset of them.
It would be at least as sensible to ask what constrains the deployment of the
full range of linguistic skills as it is to ask what motivates the use of more than
one segment of that range.” Along these lines, codeswitching in interpreter-
mediated interaction can be understood as resulting from the participants’
bilingual proficiencies, no matter how limited. All examples of codeswitching
discussed so far reflect the fact that the litigants participate in the English-
language talk, even if only passively for the most part. That is, it is clearly not
the case that litigants listen only to what the interpreter says in the LOTE and
ignore everything that is being said in English. Instead, they pay attention to
utterances made in English and attempt to relate their own contributions to
them. This will be illustrated further in the discussion of insertion below.
(8)
1 Defendant: Złapałem go dwudziestego ósme-  [go stycznia] +
{‘I caught him on the 28th
of January’}
2 Interpreter: [I caught him] on January
twenty eight=
3 Defendant: =eleven pm +
4 Interpreter: (.) at eleven pm +
5 Defendant: jak wynosił rzeczy  [z garażu]
{‘as he was taking things from the garage’}
6 Interpreter: [when he was] taking things
7 [from the garage]
8 Defendant: [moje części samochodowe]
{‘my car parts’}
159
Codeswitching in the courtroom
THE INTERPRETER’S EPISTEMIC AUTHORITY
As noted above, the practice of echoing does not necessarily result merely
in a verbatim repetition of the codeswitched “source” utterance but may
in fact involve substantial modifications by the interpreter. This is shown
in excerpt (9), from the same case as excerpt (6) above. The excerpt marks
the beginning of the claimant’s testimony. Following an initial utterance in
Haitian Creole, which is marked by hesitation and false starts (lines 1, 2,
and 4), the claimant switches to English in line 6, after having paused for
the interpreter. In the context of the interpreter’s preceding rendition, the
claimant’s English utterance I go is infelicitous, because it is in the present
tense instead of the past (arguably due to interference from Haitian Creole,
where unmarked active verbs have a past tense meaning, cf. Spears 1990) and
it does not include information about where he went. This is “translated” by
the interpreter as I went to the office (line 8), culling source information from
the utterances the claimant made in both English (line 6) and Haitian Creole
(line 4). Her rendition presents a felicitous and coherent continuation and re-
formulation of her previous translation in line 5, arguably making the claim-
ant’s testimony appear more coherent than it is (compare Hale 2002:32, who
contends that interpreters may make answers “more literate, coherent, and
precise”). The interpreter thus provides a quasi-translation from nonnative,
foreign-accented English into a form that corresponds more closely to the
variety of English used in court and that is in the very least more native-like
and less foreign-accented (see also excerpt (10)).5
This echoing is accepted
without comment by both arbitrator and claimant, and the latter proceeds
by speaking Haitian Creole.
(9)
1 Claimant: mwen fè- mwen fè yon asirans konpa- mwen fè yon- yon-
{‘I did- I did an insurance compa- I did a- a-‘}
2 (.) yon asirans (.)  [nan- na-]
{‘an insurance in- in-‘}
3 Interpreter: [I had (an-)]
4 Claimant: (.) nan- nan- nan ofis la
{‘In, in, in the office’}
5 Interpreter: (.) I: (.) had an insurance company uhm  [in the] office=
6 Claimant: [I go]
7 [uh-]
8 Interpreter: =[I] went to the office
9 Claimant: (.) Li mande m ki non m. Se yon  [dam, se yon fi]
{‘He/she asked me what is my name. It was a lady, a girl’}
10 Interpreter: [He asked me-]
11 (.) asked me- it was a lady, she asked me my name
Speak English or What?
160
The difference between the claimant’s utterance I go in line 6 and the
interpreter’s rendition I went to the office in line 7 raises a question about
the difference between echoing and translating. What does it take for an ut-
terance to be perceived as “not English” and thus warranting a translation?
In fact, echoing and translation become indistinguishable when utterances
consist of elements that can be described as “bivalent” following Woolard
(1999:7)—that is, “words or segments that could ‘belong’ equally, descrip-
tively or even prescriptively, to both codes.” As the notion of what “belongs”
to a certain language is contestable, bivalency may be best understood as a
notion of a degree of similarity that permits some form of understanding
between speakers who don’t share a common language (see the discussion
of insertions below). This may be the case when utterances consist entirely
of a proper name or of an English-origin item that has an international or
“transidiomatic” nature (see Jacquemet 2005b; also Lüdi 1987), such as okay.
Another near-bivalent case is presented by the similarity of Spanish no or
Haitian Creole non to English no, which suggests that a negative answer to
a yes/no question by a litigant speaking Spanish or Haitian Creole may be
understood by English speakers without being translated into English. Given
the propensity for yes/no interrogatives in courtroom talk, this is frequently
the case, but interpreters habitually translate such turns. However, Wadensjö
(1998:23–25) points out that there is not necessarily pragmatic equivalence
between such formally similar elements. For example, languages differ with
regard to how speakers can confirm or deny negative yes/no interrogatives,
so that it may be pragmatically appropriate to translate no as yes. Wadensjö
quotes an example where she herself translated Russian da as Swedish nej
(‘no’), and where her translation was met with bewilderment by a Swedish-
speaking participant who “knew” that da “means” yes.6
Similarly, a Spanish
interpreter in small claims court told me that he was once criticized by an
attorney when he translated a witness’s sí as of course. This shows that biva-
lent or transidiomatic elements may well be misunderstood and thus warrant
translation, but also that the interpreter’s translation of such elements may be
challenged by other participants. Nevertheless, it remains the prerogative of
the interpreter to determine what the meaning of a disputed source utterance
is—that is, the interpreter has epistemic authority over the meaning of talk
in a LOTE.
The practice of echoing thus needs to be understood also in the con-
text of the legal guidelines for court interpreting and the language ideologies
that shape them. As discussed in Chapter 4, court interpreters are required
to speak in the voice of the LOTE-speaking witness (using direct transla-
tion), and their speech replaces the witness’s own voice during the trial and
in the court record (Haviland 2003:768). This is made explicit in an appellate
decision cited by Berk-Seligson (2000:225), which holds that statements of
the interpreter “are regarded as the statements of the persons themselves.”7
161
Codeswitching in the courtroom
Consequently, when litigants codeswitch to English during testimony, their
voice comes to compete with that of the interpreter, and this can lead to com-
plications if it is unclear for other participants which voice is to be taken as
testimony. This is shown in excerpt (10) from a case about a car accident, with
a Russian-speaking claimant whose narrative testimony was shown in Chap-
ter 3 (see also Angermeyer 2008:394–395). In line 3, the claimant switches to
English following a yes/no question by the arbitrator and its translation by
the interpreter. The interpreter echoes the codeswitched answer, modifying
its form to make it a more felicitous answer to the arbitrator’s question. The
claimant then continues in English, in what can be viewed both as a refor-
mulation and an elaboration of his previous response. His utterance in line 5
is still in nonnative syntax, and it is again echoed by the interpreter (line 6),
although now she is using nonnative syntax as well. At this point, the arbitra-
tor has received several answers to her question that are different in form,
although not in meaning, which prompts her to reiterate her initial question.
She does so using a declarative question form that anticipates confirmation
by the recipient, which suggests that she has understood the responses but
needs to have her understanding confirmed (Heritage & Clayman 2010:141).
The claimant again responds in English, although he produces several false
starts (lines 8 and 9). These are not echoed by the interpreter, who instead
produces a reduced Russian rendition of the arbitrator’s question (line 10).
The claimant responds in English once more (line 11) and is again echoed by
the interpreter, before he finally switches back to Russian, in his fifth attempt
at stating that he did not have a stop sign (line 13). The interpreter’s transla-
tion of this Russian response (line 14) finally concludes the adjacency pair, in
providing an answer that satisfies the arbitrator (even though, ironically, it is
also in nonstandard English syntax).
(10)
1 Arbitrator: Did you have a stop sign?
2 Interpreter: (1.3) U vas byl stop-signal?
{‘Did you have a stop sign?’}
3 Claimant: No, [(not)].
4 Interpreter: [No], I didn’t.  [I d-]
5 Claimant: [I don’t] got.
6 Interpreter: I did not [have]
7 Arbitrator: [You didn’t] have a stop[signal?]
8 Claimant: [No, I no]got sig-
9 I- (1.1) I don’t [have]
10 Interpreter: [U vas] ne bylo?
{‘You didn’t have (one)?’}
11 Claimant: No I- [(no uh-)]
12 Interpreter: [No I ]didn’t.
Speak English or What?
162
In contrast to the previous examples of echoing (excerpts (8) and (9)), in
which litigants continued in the LOTE after the first instance of codeswitch-
ing and echoing, the claimant in excerpt (10) resists such “language repair.”
Instead, he attempts three more times to respond in English to the arbitrator’s
questions (lines 5, 8–9, and 11), all the while competing with overlapping turns
by the interpreter, who continues to treat his English turns as input for her
own talk (lines 6 and 12). This sequence of competing turns of codeswitching
and echoing thus creates the impression of a discursive tag-game, where the
claimant is trying to escape the interpreter but the interpreter always wants to
have the last word. This sequence can be analyzed as a struggle over the claim-
ant’s voice, using Goffman’s (1981:144–145) delineation of the participation
framework and the “production format” of interpreter-mediated interaction.
As outlined in Chapter 4, the interpreter can be described as the “animator”
of translated utterances, speaking words that establish the position of the
source speaker, who takes the role of “principal,” or as “owner” of the trans-
lated talk (cf. Lerner 1996). When litigants codeswitch to English, they make
their voices heard in English. However, by echoing, the interpreter reasserts
the production format of interpreter-mediated interaction and continues to
act as an animator of talk that is “owned” by the claimant. Moreover, by de-
nying the claimant the role of animator, the interpreter also undermines his
role as principal (i.e., as the person who is “committed to what the words say”;
Goffman 1981:144). This is particularly apparent following the arbitrator’s
confirmation request in line 7 you didn’t have a stop sign? Her question indi-
cates uncertainty about the meaning of prior turns, and this would normally
require disambiguation from the principal. However, the claimant’s attempts
at disambiguation continue to be unsuccessful until he finally relents and re-
sponds in Russian (line 13), which is then translated by the interpreter (line
14) and acknowledged by the arbitrator (line 15). The excerpt shows that the
interpreter has epistemic priority over the claimant, despite the fact that she
is not the principal of her words in Goffman’s sense. However, the claimant is
evidently unable to act as principal when he is speaking English. His English
turns are treated as meaningless nontalk by the other participants; he is not
seen as truly competent to speak on his own behalf unless he speaks Russian.
This perceived incompetence of codeswitching litigants echoes the notion
of LOTE speakers as linguistically “handicapped,” which has been found in
legal approaches to interpreting. As noted by Haviland (2003:769), this per-
ception results from a worldview in which limited proficiency in English is
13 Claimant: (1.2) Ja ne imel.
{‘I didn’t have (one).’}
14 Interpreter: (.6) I did not have stop sign.
15 Arbitrator: Okay.
163
Codeswitching in the courtroom
viewed as an individual shortcoming, because any “normal” person is seen
as capable of speaking (Standard) English. Once a litigant’s proficiency is in
doubt, he or she may thus be seen as too handicapped to communicate relia-
bly in English. In fact, in formal trials, there may be a concern that statements
made in English can be appealed on the grounds that the speaker didn’t know
what she or he was saying. The court interpreter’s practice of echoing thus
leads to a kind of linguistic disenfranchisement of bilingual litigants, as the
interpreter asserts the epistemic authority to determine the meaning of the
litigants’ utterances, whether made in English or in another language. From
the perspective of conversation analysis, this epistemic priority of the inter-
preter runs counter to the usual distribution of epistemic rights in narrative
contexts, where participants have “primary rights to know and describe their
own thoughts and experiences” (Heritage & Raymond 2005:36; drawing on
Sacks 1984; and Goffman 1983).8
Bilingual litigants are thus in an unusual in-
teractional situation as they listen to the interpreter giving voice to their own
experience, and they may subsequently feel the need to speak to this experi-
ence themselves (hence the game of tag in excerpt (10)). As noted by Lerner
(1996:317), “[t]he voicing of utterances, experiences, viewpoints, and even ac-
tions that are recognizably owned by someone other than the speaker make
relevant the confirmation or rejection by the author/owner.” In interpreter-
mediated interaction, this provides a strong motivation for the frequent oc-
currence of codeswitching as a method for communicating such confirmation
(or disconfirmation) directly to the arbitrator or judge. Accordingly, I ob-
served several litigants during my fieldwork who tended to comment on the
English translation of their own words. For example, in excerpt (4) above,
the Spanish-speaking claimant was shown to repeat two words (entire house)
from the interpreter’s translation (He left the entire house painted) of her own
prior turn (me dejó toda la casa pintada toda), thus using codeswitching to
suggest approval of the preceding translation.
Excerpt (11) demonstrates that a similar effect can be achieved through
paralinguistic means as well. Here a Russian claimant, a young female cus-
tomer of a valet parking service, provides online commenting on the inter-
preter’s translation of her previous turn, marking her approval with yeah
(lines 10, 12, and 20), and mm-hum (line 20), response tokens that show
agreement with prior talk (Gardner 2001). The timing of these agreement
tokens at breaks in the interpreter’s rendition is reminiscent of the back-
channeling behavior of addressees. As mentioned in Chapter 5, Wadensjö
(1998) and Davidson (2002) see the lack of back-channeling and acknowl-
edgment markers in interpreted interaction as problematic, yet this example
shows that they can be employed in unexpected ways by bilingual litigants.
Moreover, these agreement tokens also provide a way for litigants to draw
on their English proficiency without inviting criticism from arbitrators or
interpreters.
Speak English or What?
164
By producing response tokens such as mm-hum and yeah after turns by
the interpreter, the claimant is able to assert her epistemic rights and affirm
her status as principal to the arbitrator without interfering with the interpret-
er’s role of animator of her talk. These agreement tokens don’t compete with
the interpreter’s turns but rather serve to reclaim ownership of the viewpoints
and experiences expressed in them. In contrast to codeswitching as in excerpt
(7) or (10), this practice elicits no apparent reaction from the arbitrator or the
interpreter. Of course, litigants who monitor and comment on the interpret-
er’s translation of their own words do not always approve of what they hear.
This was illustrated in Mr. Bessonov’s case, discussed in Chapter 5 (excerpt
(4)), when the interpreter rendered his na svetofore ‘at the light’ as it was on red
light, prompting him to interrupt her in English: green light!
This shows that codeswitching to English can be an essential resource
for LOTE-speaking litigants. The examples discussed in this chapter have
shown that codeswitching enables litigants to participate more actively in
(11)
1 Interpreter: Oni vzjali mašinu u vas?
{‘Did they take your car?’}
2 Claimant: (.) Da i postavili na f- front spot.
{‘Yes, and parked it in a f- front spot’}
3 Interpreter: Yes  [and they-]
4 Claimant: [i ključi ja] vzjala, za èto zaplatila dvadcat’
{‘and I took the keys for that I paid 20 }
5 [dollarov čtoby ključi u menja byli.]
{‘Dollars so that I would have the keys’’}
6 Arbitrator: [So they took your car to]  [park it?]
7 Interpreter: [and they parked-/]
8 (.) and they parked this car
9 a:nd I gave them twenty dollars +
10 Claimant: Yeah.
11 Interpreter: and they gave me a key.
12 Claimant: [Yeah.]
13 Interpreter: [So I] wanted to have a key=
14 Claimant: = čtoby nikto ne trogal mašinu  [čtoby] ne bylo-=
{‘so that no one would mess with the car, so that it wouldn’t--’}
15 Interpreter: [So-]
16 =I did not want anybody to do anything
17 to the  [car, I did not]
18 Claimant: [(kak ja v restaurant)]
{‘While I’m in the restaurant’}
19 Interpreter: want any scratches or anything (.) while I’m in restaurant=
20 Claimant: =Mm-hum. Yeah.
165
Codeswitching in the courtroom
the interaction, to confirm or correct the interpreter’s rendition of their own
talk, to gain the floor, and to assert their own voice and appeal directly to
English-speaking participants such as the arbitrator, at crucial moments in
the interaction. Some of these uses of codeswitching require a relatively high
degree of proficiency in English, although some do not, as evidenced for ex-
ample by excerpt (5), where the claimant appears unable to produce an ex-
tended turn in English but used codeswitching to gain the floor in the first
place. Nonetheless, even litigants with highly limited proficiency were found
to use English to some extent. As noted at the beginning of this chapter, this
did not always involve codeswitching for entire turns but rather the use of
single English lexical items in LOTE structures. The use of such insertions
will be described in the remainder of this chapter, and it will be shown that,
much like codeswitching, insertion can be seen as interactionally meaningful
in interpreter-mediated interaction.
The use of insertion
Insertion involves the use of a simple constituent from one language in a
structure of another language (cf. Muysken 1997, 2000) This may be an ad
hoc, idiosyncratic occurrence, where a speaker codeswitches for a single
word, or it may involve a word that is used habitually, so that it may be con-
sidered borrowed (i.e., a loanword). In either case, this definition presupposes
that words can be characterized as “belonging” to a particular language. For
the purposes of this analysis, any English lexical item was considered an in-
sertion in a LOTE sentence if it could be used in an English sentence with the
same meaning (and the same principle applied to LOTE-origin words in Eng-
lish contexts). This excludes borrowed forms that have undergone a change of
meaning in the recipient language, such as the words parking and real estate
in the following examples found in the data: Russian v ètom parkinge chasto
razbivajut (‘in this parking lot they often break--’) or Spanish yo fui a un real
estate a buscar apartamento (‘I went to a real estate office to find an apart-
ment’). However, apart from considering such semantic change, I did not ex-
clude other forms that might be considered instances of borrowing simply by
virtue of frequency of use, as it is commonly done in codeswitching research
(see for example Myers-Scotton 1993a:16). An important reason for doing so
lies in the fact that the status of a lexical item as “borrowed” or not is in
effect variable. As will be shown below, different speakers may not agree on
whether a word is borrowed or not, and even a single speaker may use the
same lexical item in different ways, either emphasizing or ignoring its possi-
ble attribution to another language.
In Angermeyer (2010), I present the results of a quantitative analysis of
insertions in a set of 40 transcribed hearings that involved 65 LOTE-speaking
Speak English or What?
166
litigants or witnesses and 15 interpreters.9
Almost all LOTE-speaking liti-
gants or witnesses and all interpreters were found to use insertions of Eng-
lish lexical items in LOTE structures (569 tokens). By contrast, insertions of
LOTE-origin items in English structures were found to be extremely rare
(3 tokens). This asymmetrical distribution is reminiscent of the findings of
many studies of bilingual speech in ingroup interaction, which show inser-
tions of lexical items from the socially dominant language into structures of
the dominated language, but not vice versa (see Muysken 2000:68). It has been
documented in many studies of language contact in the context of transna-
tional migration (see, e.g., Auer 1988:206; or Backus 1992:47), including ones
of Russian/English bilingualism in New York City or elsewhere in the United
States (Schmitt 2000:16; Gregor 2003:72, 103; Angermeyer 2005b). Similarly,
Poplack (1980:602–603) found in her study of Puerto Rican bilinguals in New
York that, despite the relative symmetry of “intimate” codeswitching, the in-
sertion of English nouns into Spanish structures occurred four times more
often than that of Spanish nouns into English structures. The fact that so
many studies of bilingual speech have yielded parallel results suggests that
this asymmetry is rooted in the social relationship between the communities
who speak the languages. Where there is inequality between groups, speakers
of the dominated language acquire the dominant language and insert words
from it into their own language, but speakers of the dominant language don’t
do the reverse.
Another common finding of studies of language contact and bilingual
speech is that nouns are more frequently and more easily borrowed or in-
serted than are other categories (Poplack, Sankoff, & Miller 1988; van Hout
& Muysken 1994:60; Thomason & Kaufman 1988:74). This is also true of in-
sertions in small claims court, for speakers of all four languages, as 92% of
all insertions are nominal constituents (472 single nouns and 52 compound
nouns; see Angermeyer 2010:476). This universal prevalence of nouns has
been explained from a structural perspective, arguing that nouns are more
easily integrated into recipient-language structures than other categories
(Heath 1989; Myers-Scotton 1993a; Muysken 2000). Such approaches have
investigated how the integration of material from one language into struc-
tures of another language is possible, but not why it occurs in the first place.
When the question of motivation is raised, insertions and lexical borrowing
are most commonly attributed to a need for denoting concepts that are not
available in the recipient language (Weinreich 1968; van Hout & Muysken
1994)—that is, they may fill a “lexical gap” (Backus 1992:4–5) or may result
from a momentary “lack of words” (Auer 1984:57; in cases of what he calls
“preference-related transfer”). Based on these claims, we would expect
English-origin lexical items to refer to concepts that are not readily expressed
in the respective LOTEs. Such forms certainly exist, as all LOTE speakers are
confronted with aspects of American culture that are alien to their culture of
167
Codeswitching in the courtroom
origin.10
However, this is not the case for many other inserted lexical items,
which co-occur with LOTE equivalents in the dataset. Often such equivalents
are used earlier in the hearing by the same speaker, and sometimes immedi-
ately preceding the insertion. This is shown in excerpt (12), which shows a
Spanish-speaking witness, a contractor, listing items stolen from a parked
van. In line 3, he uses the Spanish word taladros ‘drills’ and then immediately
follows with an English insertion los drills. In using the insertion drills, he is
clearly not motivated by a lexical gap or a loss for words. The fact that the in-
terpreter translates only once (the drills) emphasizes the notion that taladros
and drills are synonyms and translation equivalents: She does not treat them
as having two different meanings that warrant separate translations.
(12)
1 Witness: Bueno, faltaba la escalera +
{‘well, the ladder was missing’}
2 Interpreter: the ladder was missing +
3 Witness: los taladros, los drills +
{‘the drills, the drills’}
4 Interpreter: the drills +
Translation equivalence plays a significant role in studies of codeswitch-
ing and borrowing, as researchers routinely distinguish between insertions
that lack an equivalent in the recipient language and those that don’t (e.g.,
see the distinction between “core borrowing” and “cultural borrowing” in
Myers-Scotton 1993a:169). At the same time, these studies have found it diffi-
cult to define translation equivalence, and they risk imposing the researcher’s
judgments instead of those of the bilingual speakers. In interpreter-mediated
interaction, this is not the case, however, as translation equivalence can be
established empirically, following Toury’s (1995:89) notion of “coupled pairs
of target- and source-text segments.” When interpreters translate from an
English source to a target in another language, or vice versa, they establish
a correspondence between lexical items from different languages. For exam-
ple, excerpt (12) provides empirical evidence for the claim that escalera and
ladder, or taladros and drills can be viewed as translation equivalents. For
bilingual participants, each of these “coupled pairs” sets up a set of available
lexical alternatives, as it associates each English lexical item with a corre-
sponding counterpart in the LOTE. Consequently, we can establish for each
inserted English lexical item whether a LOTE counterpart exists in the data
or not. This can be done by comparing different coupled pairs that involve
the same English item, which occur either in the same hearing or in different
hearings.11
Table 6.1 shows the number of insertions that are used by litigants
despite the existence of a LOTE translation equivalent in the dataset. The
Speak English or What?
168
table counts only first-time uses of insertions by a speaker in a single interac-
tional episode. In other words, if a speaker uses the same inserted item multi-
ple times, this is counted only once, but if different speakers use the insertion
in the same or in different episodes, these are counted as separate instances
of insertion.
Table 6.1 shows that more than half (59%) of all inserted items produced
by litigants co-occur with translation equivalents in the data. Moreover, in a
quarter of the cases (26%), the translation equivalent was used previously in
the same hearing, whether by the same speaker (as with drills and taladros in
excerpt (12)) or by a different speaker.12
The table also shows that the rates
are much lower for Russian than for the other three languages, which may re-
flect a higher rate of lexical borrowing from English. The sample of Russian
speakers in the data included several people who appeared to engage in code-
mixing habitually, including several litigants (see, e.g., excerpt (2) in Chapter
5) and one interpreter (see excerpt (20)).
Why do litigants use English insertions even if a LOTE alternative exists?
Some scholars have argued that such forms may be used to index cultural
values that are associated with a given language and consequently with lexical
items taken from it (Weinreich 1968:59; Myers-Scotton 1993a:234–236; Auer
1998b:7). However, a speaker’s choice of a particular word not only relates to
the speaker’s mental lexicon in the language but can also be understood with
reference to the interactional context in which it occurs. With regard to inser-
tions, this was first suggested by Auer (1984:62), who uses the term “anaphoric
transfer” to describe cases in which an inserted item refers back to an earlier
use of the same lexical item in the same conversation. While Auer considers
this a relatively rare phenomenon, I argue in Angermeyer (2002) that a signifi-
cant portion of insertions can be explained in this way. Drawing on Halliday
and Hasan’s (1976) notion of lexical cohesion, as well as on studies of lexi-
cal repetition in interaction (e.g., Johnstone 1987; Bublitz 1996), I argue that
insertion can serve to establish lexical cohesion between utterances made in
different languages. This will be illustrated in the following section.
TABLE 6.1.
Occurrence of inserted English items that alternate with LOTE equivalents in the data, for
insertions used by litigants (number of examples and share of all insertion types per language)
LOTE equivalent used Haitian Creole Polish Russian Spanish Total
Earlier in same trial 10 (42%) 11 (32%) 6 (10%) 16 (35%) 43 (26%)
  by same speaker 6 (25%) 7 (21%) 3 (5%) 6 (13%) 22 (13%)
  by other speaker 6 (25%) 5 (15%) 3 (5%) 12 (26%) 26 (16%)
Later in same trial, not before 5 (21%) 9 (26%) 4 (7%) 11 (24%) 29 (18%)
Used only in different trial 2 (8%) 3 (9%) 13 (22%) 6 (13%) 24 (15%)
Total 17/24
(71%)
23/34
(68%)
23/60
(38%)
33/46
(72%)
96/164
(59%)
169
Codeswitching in the courtroom
LEXICAL COHESION AS A DISCOURSE MOTIVATION FOR INSERTION
When interpreters translate testimony into English, they do so for the benefit
of the arbitrator and other English-speaking participants. However, as was
shown in the discussion of codeswitching above, LOTE speakers listen to the
translation as well, especially when they pause during consecutive interpret-
ing, waiting for the next opportunity to take the floor. As litigants are listen-
ing to the translation of chunks of their own prior speech, the interpreter’s
speech is likely to be more transparent to them than English talk by other
participants, and thus litigants are likely to recognize which English words
correspond to their own LOTE words. This is illustrated in excerpt (13), from
a hearing with a Spanish-speaking tenant suing her landlord. As part of her
claim, she wants to be compensated for having hired an exterminator, and
she introduces this issue by using the Spanish word fumigador (line 3). In
his translation, the interpreter uses the English word exterminator (line 4),
and this is then twice repeated by the claimant (lines 5 and 8). The first rep-
etition immediately follows the interpreter’s use of the term, as if approving
his translation and emphasizing the word (compare the use of entire house in
excerpt (4) above). The second repetition is uttered more quietly, as if made to
herself for the purpose of memorization.
(13)
1 Claimant: Eso es de-
{‘That’s for’ [Showing a receipt]}
2 Interpreter: [Es de-]
{‘It’s for’}
3 Claimant: [Es-] eso es del- del fumigador que  [fue-]
{‘that’s for, for the exterminator who came’}
4 Interpreter: [That’s] for the exterminator (.)
5 Claimant: [Exterminator!]
6 Interpreter: [who went to the apartment]
7 Arbitrator: (.) Ah (.) sorry
8 Claimant: [Exterminator]
9 Interpreter: [(xx-) disculpe]
{‘Sorry’}
After this exchange, the claimant dos not use the Spanish word fumigador
again but instead inserts the English word exterminator into Spanish utter-
ances each time she refers to this topic. One example of her doing so is shown
in excerpt (14). Note that the insertion of exterminator into a Spanish struc-
ture is preceded by disfluency, which suggests that its use may be deliber-
ate. In these and in subsequent examples, the corresponding lexical items are
highlighted in bold font for emphasis.
Speak English or What?
170
As noted by Auer (2007:331), who discusses the same example, the inte-
gration of exterminator into a Spanish utterance “is nothing more than the
consequence of the repeated use of an item.” In excerpts (13) and (14), the
claimant repeats an English lexical item that had previously been used by
the interpreter in an English utterance, where it functioned as the translation
of the corresponding Spanish equivalent. Thus, following Auer (1984:26), we
can say that it ties back anaphorically to earlier uses of the same item in Eng-
lish. Such repetition of lexical items within the same discourse has received
considerable attention in studies of monolingual discourse, where it has been
claimed to establish lexical cohesion (cf. Halliday & Hasan 1976; Johnstone
1987; Norrick 1987; Tannen 1987; Tyler 1994; Bublitz 1996). Drawing on this
work, I argue in Angermeyer (2002) that insertion regularly creates ties of
lexical cohesion to prior utterances made in a different language. When such
cohesive insertions are first used by litigants, the relevant prior utterance (or
utterances) is almost always one that has been made by a different speaker,
not by the litigant himself or herself (in contrast to multilingual discourse,
where speakers have overlapping multilingual repertoires and may quote
words that they themselves spoke in another language, as in Angermeyer
2002). In other words, cohesive insertion in interpreter-mediated interaction
tends to be “second-speaker repetition” rather than “same-speaker repe-
tition” (cf. Norrick 1987), although it may combine elements of both when
cohesive insertion is preceded by codeswitched repetition in unintegrated
single-word utterances, as in excerpt (13).
In addition to using words previously used by interpreters, litigants may
also repeat English words that occurred in the speech of arbitrators or English-
speaking litigants. In those cases, it is likely to have been translated into the
LOTE by the interpreter, so that, again, the speaker has the choice between
two synonymous lexical items that have occurred in prior discourse. This is
(14)
1 Arbitrator: What else are you  [s-]
2 Claimant: [que] yo tuve que-
{‘that I had to’}
3 Arbitrator: suing  [for besides] this and this?
4 Claimant: [eh que-]
{‘uhm to’}
5 Interpreter: [y que? y-]
{‘and what? and-’}
6 Claimant: [que- eh a] solicitar un ex- un exterminator de verdad=
{‘I had to solicit a real exterminator.’}
7 Interpreter: =So I had to f- ah find a /real exterminator.
8 Arbitrator: Okay.
171
Codeswitching in the courtroom
illustrated by excerpts (15) and (16), from a hearing with a defendant who
speaks Haitian Creole in a case about a car accident that was discussed in
Chapter 1 (see also Angermeyer 2010:477). The claimant accuses the defen-
dant of having caused the accident by running a red light. When she tells her
version of how the accident happened, she claims that the light turned yellow
as she crossed the intersection. When she first makes this claim, as shown
in excerpt (15), she uses the Haitian Creole term jòn ‘yellow’ (line 5) and the
interpreter translates it as yellow (line 6). Later in the hearing, the claimant
is given the opportunity to ask her questions, as shown in excerpt (16). Like
in a cross-examination in formal court, he does not ask information-seeking
questions but rather poses closed questions that challenge her earlier testi-
mony. In line 2 he uses the word yellow with question intonation, asking her
to confirm or deny her earlier claim. The interpreter translates this into Hai-
tian Creole (jòn, line 3), but when the defendant reiterates her testimony, she
inserts the English word yellow into a Haitian Creole sentence (line 5).
(15)
1 Defendant: Limyè a te vert +
{‘the light was green’}
2 Interpreter: And the light was green +
3 Defendant: (Yes) (.) and then (.) mwen travese +
{‘and then I crossed’}
4 Interpreter: [And I crossed the street] +
5 Defendant: [Men li tounen jòn lè m ap] travese=
{‘but it turned yellow when I was crossing’}
6 Interpreter: =but while I was (.) crossing ah the light turned yellow
(16)
1 Claimant: You said that the light changed to what?
2 [Yellow?]
3 Interpreter: [Ou di ke] limyè (a te to-) tounen jòn?
{‘you said that the light (had) turned yellow’}
4 Defendant: (0.6) limyè a te vert,
{‘The light was green’}
5 et puis lè m ap pase (anba li) tounen yellow.
{‘and then, when I passed underneath, it turned yellow.’}
In excerpts (15) and (16), the defendant uses two phrases that are entirely
parallel (li tounen jòn ‘it turned yellow’ and li tounen yellow), except for the
fact that the second version replaces a Haitian Creole item with a synony-
mous English insertion. Moreover, the item being inserted is a keyword in
the case as a whole, and especially in the question-and-answer pair shown
Speak English or What?
172
in excerpt (16), where it is the focus of the claimant’s question in line 2. In
choosing yellow over jòn, the defendant can be seen as demonstrating that she
participates in the English part of the interaction and acknowledges the re-
ceipt of utterances made by English speakers (cf. Johnstone 1987:207; Tannen
1987:585). Moreover, the fact that she repeats this keyword from the claim-
ant’s question corresponds to a common finding in conversation analysis:
that answers often include words from the question (Clayman 2001:410), espe-
cially if they rebut a proposition included in the question (see, e.g., Atkinson
& Drew 1979:160–163).
These examples show that insertions may be the result of discourse pro-
cesses rather than of gaps in the speaker’s lexicon. By inserting exterminator
in excerpt (14) and yellow in excerpt (16), LOTE speakers establish lexical
cohesion between utterances that were made during the same interaction but
in different languages (Angermeyer 2002). Such cohesive insertions occur
frequently in the data. Overall, 41% of insertions used by litigants (67/164)
involve lexical items that have previously been used by another speaker in
the same hearing, and in about half of these cases the prior use occurred in
the previous five turns (32/164, 20%).13
This kind of lexical repetition is also
found with insertions that consist of more than a single word, as shown in
excerpt (17). The Russian-speaking claimant, a Section 8 tenant suing for the
return of her security deposit, is explaining the circumstances of her move
out of the landlord’s building, which involved a transfer of the housing subsi-
dies to the new building. In line 1, she introduces this fact by using the Rus-
sian verb perevesti ‘to transfer’ as well as the prepositional phrase v drugoj
building ‘to another building,’ which contains a preposition and an adjective
in Russian as well as the inserted English noun building. This is translated by
the interpreter as transfer me to another building (line 2), which the claimant
reprises (omitting the pronoun) as the noun phrase transfer to another build-
ing in line 6.
(17)
1 Claimant: Vos’maja Programma menja perevela v drugoj building.
{‘Section 8 transferred me to another building’}
2 Interpreter: And the Section Eight transfer me to another building +
3 Arbitrator: (.) Okay?
4 Claimant: I (.) kodga ja za četyre mesjaca naperjod,
{‘and when I, four months in advance’}
5 ja dala znat’ uh manager-u, čto Vos’maja Programma
{‘I let the manager know that Section 8’}
6 delaet transfer to another  [building]
{‘would do a transfer to another building’}
7 Interpreter: [Uh-]
173
Codeswitching in the courtroom
In addition to the cohesive insertion of transfer to another building, ex-
cerpt (17) also illustrates the use of insertions that are not repeated from
earlier uses in the hearing, namely building in line 1, manager in line 5, and
security in line 8.14
These examples are representative of the other 59% of the
litigants’ insertions for which no prior use is attested in the data. Like the in-
sertions in the examples above, these three items are clearly keywords in the
case, especially security (the security deposit), which represents the subject of
the claim, and manager, which refers to one of the defendants. As keywords in
the dispute, they can be surmised to have occurred at a prior point in the his-
tory of the dispute, such as during arguments that led to the dispute, or when
the claim form was filled out in English. In fact the claimant here is reporting
her verbal request for the return of the security, which was likely made in
English. In Angermeyer (2002:378–383) I argue that insertions can establish
cohesive ties to earlier interactional episodes, thus functioning intertextually.
A similar claim is made in Auer (1998b:7). However, as the analysis in this
study is limited to interaction in the courtroom, the existence of such inter-
textual links can only be hypothesized but not demonstrated empirically.
LEXICAL REPETITION AS ACCOMMODATION
Even when a lexical repetition occurs, it cannot be solely explained by the
need to establish cohesion. As noted above, there is an asymmetry in the
distribution of insertions by language and speakers (291 insertions of English
items made by LOTE-speaking litigants, compared to only one insertion of a
LOTE item by an English-speaking arbitrator or litigant).15
All participants
need to make their contributions coherent with prior talk, but not all do so by
quoting words that their interlocutors have said in another language. This can
often be attributed to a lack of knowledge of LOTEs among English speak-
ers, but not in cases where LOTE speakers have bilingual adversaries, or with
8 Claimant: Uh ja poprosila uh (.) security vernut’. Ona mne skazala-
{‘ah I asked ah for the security deposit back. she told me’}
9 Interpreter: And four months in advance (.) I advised them (.)
10 that uh the Section Eight is going to transfer me
11 to another building?
12 (.) And I was asking them to return my security deposit back
13 (.) and she told me
14 Claimant: Da, ja vernu.
{‘Yes, I will return (it)’}
15 Interpreter: (.7) that uh- I gonna return it to you.
Speak English or What?
174
arbitrators who speak Spanish (see Chapter 3). Instead, it can be argued that
the asymmetry arises from processes of accommodation in the context of
a hierarchical role distribution in court, and of inequality in society more
generally. When LOTE-speaking litigants use English words, they accom-
modate to English-speaking participants, including the arbitrators who
make the legal decision. In the framework of accommodation theory (Giles,
N. Coupland, & J. Coupland 1991), which was introduced above, insertion
can be understood as an act of convergence, just like codeswitching. In fact,
lexical choice is among the features that have been considered in studies of
accommodation. Trudgill (1986) views accommodation in face-to-face inter-
action as the primary cause of long-term language change and argues that
accommodation begins with lexical choice before reaching other levels of lan-
guage (p. 25). Cohesive insertions represent convergence in two ways, namely
through lexical choice (by using the same lexical item) and through language
choice (by using the same language, even if only momentarily). Thus, LOTE
speakers converge to the speech of English-speaking participants, but not
vice versa. As noted in the discussion of codeswitching above, this asym-
metry is in fact predicted by accommodation theory. As Giles, N. Coupland,
and J. Coupland (1991:19) state, “the greater the speakers’ need to gain an-
other’s social approval, the greater the degree of convergence there will be.”
In the courtroom, litigants need to gain the social approval of legal decision
makers, but not vice versa. Research on courtroom interaction that has been
conducted in the accommodation theory framework has shown accommoda-
tion by witnesses or defendants, although defendants in particular may also
be found to be confrontational and to diverge in their speech style (Linell
1991). Aronsson et al. (1987) interpret the lexical repetition of legal terms by
witnesses as an act of convergence toward the speech of legal professionals.
Excerpt (18) provides an example of cohesive insertion that can be inter-
preted as an act of convergence from litigant to arbitrator. It is taken from a
case in which a Russian-speaking claimant is suing a mortgage broker over
a bounced check (see also excerpt (5)). The defendant, who signed the check,
has claimed that he is not legally responsible, as he is merely an employee of
the company. The arbitrator is agreeing with him, telling the claimant that
he should sue the company whose name is written on the check. The claim-
ant contends that this company has changed its name four times, and that
the defendant is in fact the manager, but he cannot convince the arbitrator,
who decides to dismiss the case. Excerpt (18) includes the final exchanges of
the hearing, during which the arbitrator explains to the claimant once more
that he cannot hold an employee responsible for the company. In doing so,
she uses the word employee four times (lines 2, 4, 10, and 11), and the Russian
interpreter translates it as rabotnik (line 6). When the claimant attempts once
more to question this view (lines 14, 16, and 18), he uses the English word em-
ployee instead of the Russian alternative (he had not used either word in the
hearing prior to this moment).
175
Codeswitching in the courtroom
(18)
1 Arbitrator: The law is the law. I- there’s nothing I can do,
2 you have to  [sue the company not the employee]
3 Interpreter: [Odin odin dva dva vosem’]
{‘11228’}[ZIP code, dictating to claimant]
4 Arbitrator: Cause employees are not personal  [liable]
5 Interpreter: [Vy dolžny]
{‘You have to sue’}
6 sudit’ kompaniju, a ne rabotnika, potomu čto rabotniki nikogda
{‘the company, but not the employee, because employees are’}
7 [ne otvečajut za korporaciju]
{‘ never responsible for the corporation.’}
8 Arbitrator: [Unless it’s a sole proprietorship]
9 (1.5) you know if you are the only-
10 if you own the company and you are the only employee, then
11 you can’t hide [behind the fact that you’re an employee]
12 Audience: [(xxx možet dokazat’ čto-)]
{‘xxx can prove that’}
13 Interpreter: [Esli vy vladeete kompaniej-]
{‘If you own the company’}
14 Claimant: =Kak on možet dokazat’  [čto-]
{‘How can he prove that--’}
15 Arbitrator: [So can] I have my pen back then?
16 Claimant: Kak on možet dokazat’  [čto on-]
{‘How can he prove that he is--’}
17 Arbitrator: [Thank you]
18 Claimant: čto on uh employee ètoj kompanii?
{‘that he is an uh employee of this company?’}
19 Interpreter: (.) How he- ah (can he-)
20 (.) how can he prove that he is employee  [of the company?]
21 Claimant: [On daže ne- ne-]
{‘He is not even--’}
22 Arbitrator: The problem is, /you have the burden of proof, not him,
23 and you /must  [sue the company]
24 Interpreter: [Vy ego vyzvali v sud]
{‘You took him to court’}
25 i vy dolžny dokazyvat’, a ne on.
{‘and you have to prove (it), and not he.’}
26 Arbitrator: =You must sue the company, (.) okay?
27 Interpreter: Vy dolžny sudit’  [kompaniju]
{‘You have to sue the company.’}
28 Arbitrator: [Thank you very much]
29 Next case please.
30 Defendant: =Thank you.
Speak English or What?
176
The claimant’s lexical choice of employee over rabotnik in line 18 thus
represents an example of cohesive insertion, where a LOTE-speaking litigant
establishes lexical cohesion between his utterance and a prior utterance by an
arbitrator. As in the case of exterminator in excerpt (14), we find the insertion
to be preceded by disfluency, suggesting that it may be produced deliberately.
Also, as in the previous examples, the insertion involves a lexical item that
can be considered central to the subject matter of the case. In the context of
courtroom discourse, such a repetition of the same lexical item also brings
to mind the “same meaning, same form” principle that is characteristic of
legal language (Tiersma 1999:113). This involves a preference for the repeti-
tion of full phrases instead of using anaphora, in order to minimize ambi-
guity (O’Barr 1982:19).16
Conversely, Gibbons (2003:48–49) points out that
while “a word or expression is taken to have the same referent throughout
a text,” “perhaps more importantly, a synonym is expected to have a differ-
ent referent.” This principle thus conflicts directly with the task of the inter-
preter, since translation requires the use of a different word to designate the
same referent.17
In fact, consistency of reference may be difficult to achieve in
interpreter-mediated interaction, as shown by Pym (1999) in his analysis of
variable translation of slap and hit into Spanish in testimony from the O. J.
Simpson trial. By contrast, the use of an insertion maintains the “same mean-
ing, same form” principle across language boundaries.
Applied to the analysis of insertion in bilingual speech, the “same mean-
ing, same form” principle thus implies that insertion should be particularly
common with lexical items that denote important legal concepts, such as dif-
ferent forms of evidence, or categories of participants. This is in fact the case.
Table 6.2 illustrates the ways in which 12 such legally relevant concepts from
the most common case types are referred to by interpreters and litigants when
speaking in the respective LOTE. Insertions are attested in 19 of the 48 rel-
evant LOTE environments, with 12 occurring alongside LOTE equivalents
and seven occurring as the only variant. Several inserted items are found in
more than one recipient language, including lease and estimate, which occur
in three different language contexts each. These parallels provide further evi-
dence for the claim that the insertion of such items is often discourse-related
and does not result primarily from “gaps” in the respective speakers’ LOTE
lexicon. The insertions could also be taken as evidence in support of Backus’s
(1996) claim that items are more likely to be inserted if they denote a spe-
cific referent.18
However, Table 6.2 also shows that insertions are often absent
where a close cognate is available—that is, a word etymologically related
and formally similar to the co-referential English word, such as the Spanish
words depósito, estimado, recibo, or renta. Overall, cognates are attested in
15 relevant environments, compared to 11 that contain neither an insertion
nor a cognate (see especially Polish forms like mieszkanie ‘apartment,’ umowa
‘contract/lease,’ or wypadek ‘accident’) and three where there is a lack of data.
177
Codeswitching in the courtroom
TABLE 6.2.
Key legal concepts and attested translations
English Spanish Haitian Creole Russian Polish
receipt recibo (11;27) resi (1;0) receipt (4;6)
raspiska (0;1)
kvitancija (0;2)
pokwitowanie (1;0)
kwit (0;1)
kwitka (0;1)
bill cuenta (0;11) bill (0;1)
facture (0;1)
bill (1;1)
sčët (2;3)
rachunek (2;6)
estimate estimado (2;18) estimate (0;2) estimate (2;13)
ocenka (0;4)
estimate (1;1)
wycena (0;3)
apartment apartamento (19;23) apatman (0;4) kvartira (6;26),
apartment (1;0)
mieszkanie (1;5)
landlord landlord (4;0)
dueño (2;11)
landlord (0;6)
lease lease (3;1)
contrato de
arrendamiento (0;2)
contrato (0;4)
lease (1;1) lease (1;10) umowa (1;4)
agreement acuerdo (5;20) aranjman (0;1) dorovor (1;1)
soglašenie (0;3)
umowa (1;2),
porozumienie (0;2)
(sales)
contract
contrato (3;4) kontra (1;9) kontrakt (17;12)
rent alquiler (1;5)
renta (17;28)
lwaye (0;3) rent (3;9) rent (0;1)
security
deposit,
deposit,
security
depósito de seguridad
(0;5)
depósito (5;7)
deposit (0;1) security deposit (4;5)
security (2;8)
depozit (3;2)
depozyt (5;4)
accident accidente (3;13) aksidan (2;7) akcident (0;24)
avarija (3;1)
wypadek (6;4)
police
report
informe de la
policía (0;2)
reporte de policía (0;1)
reporte a la policía (1;1)
police report (1;0)
rapo polis (0;1) policejskij
raport (0;2)
report (0;1)
policejski
protokol (2;1)
policyjny raport
(0;3)
The numbers in parentheses indicate the number of tokens used by litigants and interpreters, respectively, in
LOTE structures. Underlining indicates form that can be considered insertions.
The relative distribution of insertions and cognates in Table 6.2 suggests
that the use of insertions is less likely if a cognate exists in the LOTE. For
example, Spanish speakers use cognates for eight of the 12 referents and inser-
tions for only three, compared to three cognates and 10 insertions produced by
Russian speakers. Like insertions, cognates can be understood as establishing
lexical cohesion across language boundaries by virtue of their formal similar-
ity to a co-referential item. The use of a cognate avoids the ambiguity intro-
duced by synonyms, maintaining a sense of “talking about the same thing,” in
line with the “same meaning, same form” principle of legal language.
This hypothesis is further supported by the occurrence of LOTE items
that do not have the same meaning as their English cognates in monolingual
Speak English or What?
178
language use but that are used by litigants and interpreters as if they did.
This is the case with Spanish renta, for example, which refers to “pension”
or “income” in monolingual usage but is used to mean “rent.”19
In bilingual-
ism research, this phenomenon has been described as loan shift (Haugen
1950:219) or semantic extension (Weinreich 1968:48), and it is parallel to the
notion of false friends in translation studies, which describes the use of target-
language words that have a similar form to but a different meaning than the
source-language word being translated (Nida 2004).
INSERTION IN TRANSLATION
As shown in the previous section, insertions and close cognates tie back to
prior discourse by establishing cohesion to identical or similar forms that
have been used by other speakers. However, insertions and cognates also have
an effect on subsequent discourse in that they facilitate the interpreter’s task
by providing an input for translation that is already partially in English or is
formally similar to the appropriate target form. As shown in excerpts (12),
(14), (17), and (18), insertions habitually result in a repetition of the inserted
item in the English translation produced by the interpreter, and the same is
true with close cognates. Consequently, it can be argued that the use of in-
sertions and cognates enables LOTE speakers to influence the interpreter’s
choice of words in English, and at times it appears as if they do so deliber-
ately. This is particularly evident when the insertion follows an item from the
LOTE that can be considered to be its translation equivalent. This is the case
in excerpt (19), where a Russian-speaking claimant uses the English item shop
immediately after its Russian equivalent remontnaja masterskaja ‘car repair
shop’ (see also the use of taladros and drills in excerpt (12) above). Moreover,
the insertion is followed by the question tag tak?, which appears to solicit a
confirmation of understanding from the interpreter.
(19)
1 Claimant: Èto, značit, kogda eë postavili,
{‘well, that is, when it was put’}
2 značit, v remontnuju masterskuju, v shop, (.) tak?
{‘that is, in a repair shop, in a shop, yes?’}
3 (.7) ona, značit, prostojala tam šest’ s polovinoj mesjacev.
{‘it was, you know, parked there for six and a half months’}
4 Interpreter: Well, this car was put at a repair shop where it spent about ah
5 (.6) skol’ko ona tam provela?
{‘how much time did it spend there?’}
Such lexical suggestions were especially common with specialized vocab-
ulary items that related to the litigant’s line of work, such as the use of drills
179
Codeswitching in the courtroom
by a contractor in excerpt (12). In fact, litigants with limited proficiency in
English may nonetheless be more familiar with English terminology in their
field than the interpreter is. For example, in discussing car repair, LOTE-
speaking litigants inserted such items as catalytic converter, alternator, ex-
haust system, or injector, which interpreters were not always familiar with.
This shows again that L2 proficiency is not uniform but depends on the topic
in addition to the speech situation (as discussed in Chapter 5). Moreover, the
use of such lexical items in English indexes professional expertise that is likely
to enhance perceptions of the litigant’s credibility.
The use of English insertions (and cognates) thus provides litigants with
a number of advantages over the use of LOTE equivalents. As discussed in
the above sections, by using insertions, they make their own talk more co-
herent with prior discourse in English, accommodating to the lexical choices
of English speakers and maintaining continuity of reference across language
boundaries, especially in reference to key concepts in the dispute. In addi-
tion, the use of insertions enables litigants to influence the interpreter’s choice
of words, and, if it involves specialized vocabulary, it may be seen as indexing
a litigant’s professional or educational qualifications.
By contrast, when interpreters use insertions in their own speech, they
are likely to be perceived as indexing a lack of qualification for the interpret-
ing task. Particularly in the legal sphere, interpreting is often simplistically
understood as a “word matching exercise” (Hale & Gibbons 1999:207), where
interpreters are supposed to translate “word for word” (Haviland 2003:768).20
From this perspective, the use of insertions by interpreters is problematic
because it can be taken as evidence that the interpreter doesn’t “know” the
appropriate translation equivalent in the LOTE and is unable to produce a
complete translation of the English source utterance. This is particularly true
if the insertion repeats a lexical item from the corresponding source talk (see
Meyer & Zeevaert 2002:2). If insertions result from lexical gaps, these may
reflect limits in the interpreter’s proficiency, or they may be temporary, result-
ing from difficulties with lexical retrieval. Such retrieval problems are likely
to arise, as court interpreters have to make quick lexical decisions. If they
spend too much time choosing an appropriate lexical item, they risk missing
new input that also needs to be translated, especially when they are operating
in simultaneous interpreting mode (see Chapter 5). Insertions may thus rep-
resent a fallback strategy for avoiding such delays.
As shown in Table 6.2, the court interpreters in this study do use inser-
tions of English lexical items, which are mostly repetitions of words from
the corresponding source utterance (278 tokens overall). However, there are
considerable differences between individual interpreters in the sample.21
Many interpreters use insertions only rarely, with Spanish interpreters av-
eraging a rate of one insertion per 500 words in the LOTE and other inter-
preters averaging between one in 50 and one in 200 words (see Angermeyer
Speak English or What?
180
2010:475). However, one particular Russian interpreter was found to produce
more insertions than all other interpreters combined, at a rate of one in 25
words (170 tokens). Her use of insertions is illustrated in excerpt (20), where
she translates for a Russian-speaking overhearer what the defendant says in
English to the arbitrator. As discussed in Chapter 5, such situations often
give rise to simultaneous interpreting, and the interpreter’s rendition here
overlaps almost entirely with speech by other participants. In her translation
of the defendant’s turn, the Russian interpreter repeats the lexical items land-
lord and security from the English source. In addition, she produces the con-
struction otdali nazad ‘(they) gave back,’ which is modeled after the English
phrase ‘give back.’ She does so despite having used the verb vernut’ ‘to return
(something)’ in the same context earlier (compare also excerpt (17), where this
verb is used by a litigant, along with an insertion of security). Such construc-
tions, called calques, have been documented in many language-contact situa-
tions, but they may also be attributed to a tendency of translators to produce
target forms that are syntactically modeled after the source form, even where
this diverges from monolingual usage (so-called translationese, cf. Toury
1995). Consequently, it is not clear whether the interpreter’s speech reflects
language-contact phenomena in her use of Russian generally or whether it
results from the constraints of simultaneous interpreting.
(20)
1 Defendant: according to my landlord he gave it back to ‘em,
2 he gave back (their) security.
3 Arbitrator: (.8) Y’all can’t  [prove it]
4 Interpreter: [Soglasno] [landlord-u]
{‘According to the landlord,’}
5 Defendant: [(But here)!]
6 Interpreter: oni vam  [security otdali nazad]
{‘ they gave you the security back.’}
7 Defendant: [Here’s the- here’s the check]
Where interpreters use insertions, one may ask whether the inserted
lexical item is in fact understood by the LOTE-speaking litigant. Meyer
(2004:133) discusses an example where a nonprofessional interpreter accom-
panies the insertion of a medical term with a question intonation that sug-
gests that she is checking its comprehension by the addressee. However, no
such examples are found in my data, suggesting that interpreters, if they are
aware of using insertions, assume that the respective English lexical items
will be understood by their LOTE-speaking interlocutors. To the contrary,
there may be cases where LOTE speakers are much more familiar with the
inserted English-origin item than with a LOTE alternative (see the discussion
181
Codeswitching in the courtroom
of lexical struggle below). In any case, most interpreters seem to want to avoid
insertions when they can. This becomes apparent when items that have been
inserted are avoided in subsequent discourse and replaced by a LOTE alter-
native. This is illustrated in excerpt (21), from a case with a Polish-speaking
claimant. In this excerpt, the defendant is explaining her position in English
to the arbitrator, and the interpreter is translating this into Polish for the
overhearing claimant. The defendant twice uses the English word cash (lines
1 and 10). In the first instance, the interpreter inserts English cash (line 7),
but when she has to translate it a second time (line 12), she uses the Polish
item gotówka. Thus, we can interpret the use of gotówka as an instance of
self-repair, a lexical choice that substitutes a Polish-origin lexical item for an
earlier English-origin insertion. It suggests that the interpreter perceives cash
as English, even though she uses it in a Polish structure, without hesitation
and case-marked with an inflectional suffix (for instrumental case). Thus,
while it may well be that the word cash is habitually used by Polish–English
bilinguals in New York, this does not mean that its English origin has become
irrelevant.
(21)
1 Defendant: That was agreement, I gave [her cash]
2 Arbitrator: [Where is the-] where is-
3 Defendant: (.) I never[(give-)]
4 Arbitrator: [You] never had a  [receipt?]
5 Defendant: [Nie-] [no]
{‘No.’}
6 Interpreter: [Nigdy]
7 nie miałam żadnego kwitka [zawsze płaciłam  [cash-em]
{‘I never had any receipt, I always paid in cash’}
8 Defendant: [We never have  [receipt]
9 Arbitrator: [Never] receipts?
10 Defendant: =We give the cash on the table, that’s it, that was agreement.
11 [And I have the proof she’s lying to-]
12 Interpreter: [Gotówka była na stół kładziona i to wszystko]
{‘The cash was put on the table, and that’s all.’}
However, when interpreters avoid insertions, the chosen alternative does
not necessarily facilitate the recipient’s understanding and may even be de-
notationally incorrect. This is illustrated in excerpts (22) and (23), from a
hearing with a Spanish-speaking tenant who sued her former landlord for
the return of the security deposit. The claimant had rented the apartment
in person, through a real estate broker, but had planned on receiving Sec-
tion 8 subsidies. After an inspection, Section 8 had demanded repairs to the
Speak English or What?
182
apartment. This prompted the landlord to cancel the contract, and, as the
apartment was empty for several months, he decided to withhold the secu-
rity deposit. During his testimony, the defendant repeatedly refers to the real
estate broker, and the interpreter initially translates this by using the English
word broker, albeit with some hesitation (as shown in excerpt (22)). When
the broker is mentioned again approximately 80 seconds later, as shown in
excerpt (23), the interpreter uses a Spanish term to translate the word broker,
namely corredor de bolsa (again preceded by disfluency). Ironically, this is an
inappropriate translation, as corredor de bolsa commonly refers to a stock-
broker, not a real estate broker.22
(22)
1 Defendant: ah the broker requested that they  [ah- ]
2 Interpreter: [el-]
3 Defendant: it was not a Section  [Eight apartment that they requested]
4 Interpreter: [el- el broker dice que-]
{‘the, the broker says that’}
(23) [ca. 80 seconds later]
1 Defendant: I had to cancel.
2 [I have a statement from the broker, if you want to see it]
3 Interpreter: [Yo tuve que cancelar el acuerdo. Aquí hay una]
{‘I had to cancel the agreement, here is a’}
4 declaración del-  [del- del] corredor de bolsa
{‘statement from the, from the stock broker’}
5 Arbitrator: [Let me see]
When it comes to intraspeaker variation in lexical choice, interpreters
thus show a pattern that is the reverse of that shown by litigants. Litigants
tend to use LOTE terms but then later substitute them with English inser-
tions, as shown in excerpts (14) and (16). By contrast, interpreters may use
insertions as a temporary stopgap, especially during simultaneous interpret-
ing, as in excerpts (21) and (22), but then substitute a LOTE item at the next
opportunity. When both of these patterns of lexical choice occur in the same
interaction, we find variation between individuals, which may take the form
of a struggle between interpreter and litigants about the “right” word for a
given referent. This will be described in the following section.
LEXICAL STRUGGLE BETWEEN INTERPRETERS AND LITIGANTS
The previous examples have shown that interpreters may engage in lexical self-
repair, substituting English insertions with alternative lexical items from the
183
Codeswitching in the courtroom
LOTE. However, if the troubling inserted item was previously used by both
the interpreter and a litigant, its substitution with an alternative item is not
just a case of self-repair but can also be seen as a correction of the litigant’s
lexical choice. This was found to be a recurrent phenomenon in the speech
of Spanish interpreters. As mentioned above, Spanish interpreters used fewer
insertions than the interpreters for other languages did, and this is true not just
on average but also individually, as six of the seven Spanish interpreters in the
sample have a lower rate of insertions than any of the eight other interpreters
in the sample. The seventh Spanish interpreter (Jorge) still has a lower rate of
insertions than all but two of the other interpreters. As will be shown in this
section, these differences relate to language ideologies about Spanish–English
language contact, as well as to dialect differences among Spanish speakers in
New York City. As noted in Chapter 4, many Spanish-speaking litigants in
the sample were of Dominican origin, whereas interpreters were mainly from
other countries, and the resulting differences in national origin and dialect
were amplified by differences in socioeconomic class (and, occasionally, dif-
ferences in racial identity). As a consequence, many Spanish interpreters em-
braced prescriptivist language ideologies that value a “correct” Spanish—that
is, a formal, international standard variety—while stigmatizing codeswitch-
ing and Caribbean varieties that are perceived as nonstandard. Consequently,
these interpreters did not always agree with litigants about lexical choice. This
is illustrated in excerpt (24), from a hearing about a theft of tools from a parked
van (see also excerpt (12) above). The owner of the van, an immigrant from
the Dominican Republic who is speaking mostly English during the hearing,
is suing the owner of the parking lot, also a Dominican immigrant. In this
excerpt, the defendant is claiming that his company is not responsible for the
loss of items left inside a parked car, and he states that this policy is stated on
the ticket that the claimant received when he parked his van. The defendant
uses the English-origin item ticket in Spanish (line 1), and the interpreter (who
speaks a Caribbean variety herself) uses ticket in her English translation, and
then again in lines 7 and 11, when she translates the arbitrator’s questions into
Spanish. In line 7, her use of ticket is preceded by hesitation (elongating the
preceding syllable), suggesting that she is hesitating to use the term in a Span-
ish context. And in fact, when she has to translate it into Spanish for the third
time, she uses a Spanish-origin alternative, boleta, in line 14.
(24)
1 Defendant: y en el ticket dice que nosotros no somos  [respon]sables por
{‘and it says on the ticket that we’re not responsible for’}
2 Claimant: [uhm]
3 Defendant: (.)  [nada que dejen]
{‘anything that they leave’}
Speak English or What?
184
4
5
Interpreter: [uh and the] ticket states that we’re not responsible for
anything left.
6 Arbitrator: (.) Do you have a ticket?
7 Interpreter: (.) Usted tiene un: ticket?
{‘Do you have a . . . ticket?’}
8 Defendant: Él tiene uno.
{‘He has one.’}
9 Interpreter: /He has one.
10 Arbitrator: (.) You have the ticket?
11 Interpreter: (.) Tiene el ticket?
{‘Do you have the ticket’}
12 Claimant: (.) I have a ticket right here.
13 Arbitrator: Can I look at it?
14 Interpreter: =Tengo la boleta [aquí]
{‘I have the ticket here.’}
15 Claimant: [Yes ]
The different uses of ticket in excerpt (24) suggest that the defendant
and the interpreter disagree about its status in the Spanish lexicon. Ticket
is an established loanword that is listed in Spanish dictionaries, and the
defendant uses it with no sign of hesitation or flagging. By contrast, the in-
terpreter does hesitate before first using it in Spanish, and then she replaces
it with another word, suggesting that she views ticket as an English word.
This illustrates the difficulty for bilingualism studies of attributing lexical
items to a specific language across the board, for every occurrence in a
given corpus. Apparently, ticket “belongs” to both languages, and conse-
quently, speakers of Caribbean Spanish can use it as a borrowed word (like
the defendant in line 1) or as a momentary codeswitch (like the interpreter
in lines 7 and 11). This difference in metalinguistic attribution further illus-
trates the divergent language ideologies of Spanish-speaking interpreters
and litigants. While the examples discussed so far have shown instances
where interpreters revised their own language choices, there are also a
number of examples where such a mitigating element of self-repair is absent
and interpreters directly contrast their own lexical choice with that of the
litigant. A striking example is given in excerpt (25), from the same hearing
as excerpt (14), where the two opposing uses are found in adjacent turns
(if Spanish and English utterances are counted as belonging to separate
adjacency pairs, as illustrated in Fig. 6.1). Here the claimant twice uses the
English word lease in Spanish structures (lines 1 and 5), but the interpreter
(a Cuban-born man in his 50s) instead chooses the prescriptively correct
form contrato de arrendamiento (line 8).
185
Codeswitching in the courtroom
Given that the interpreter’s choice of words blatantly violates the “same
meaning, same form” principle discussed above, one can wonder whether the
claimant recognizes contrato de arrendamiento as referring to the same object
as lease (although she appears to have understood the arbitrator’s question
in English without translation). But as the interpreter is talking about the
same referent, his divergent lexical choice can be seen as correcting that of
the claimant. Evidently, the interpreter treats the use of el lease as erroneous
Spanish, despite the fact that it can be viewed as fulfilling a discourse func-
tion in this bilingual interaction, since it maintains continuity of reference
across the language boundary for a keyword in the dispute. In choosing con-
trato de arrendamiento, the interpreter opts for a prescriptively correct trans-
lation equivalent instead of speaking with the claimant on her terms. Lexical
choice can thus be understood as introducing an “ideological positioning”
(Cotterill 2004: 519). In fact, disagreements over lexical choice are a common
phenomenon in courtroom talk, as parties argue over the representation of
facts (see, e.g., Danet 1980). This has been described as “lexical struggle”
(Eades 2006) or lexical negotiation (Cotterill 2004) and has been observed
especially in the context of cross-examinations (see also Drew 1992; Matoe-
sian 2001; Ehrlich 2001; Eades 2008). Eades (2006) further speaks of “lexical
perversion” if a cross-examining attorney rejects a witness’s labeling of his or
her own experience, and notes that this may be accomplished by overt cor-
rection or covert substitution of the witness’s lexical choice. While the lexical
struggle between interpreters and litigants in small claims court is not about
the representation of testimony but about ideologies of standard language,
there are clear parallels to Eades’s findings. The interpreter’s substitutions
tend to be covert, as they depend on relevant source input and do not respond
(25)
1 Claimant: La que está en el lease.
{‘The one who’s on the lease.’}
2 Interpreter: (1.3) Perdon?
{‘Excuse me?’}
3 Claimant: Esa es la hija mía.
{‘That’s my daughter.’}
4 Interpreter: That’s my daughter who is on the lease.
5 Claimant: (.6) ahum (.) ella está en el lease.
{‘she (=her name) is on the lease.’}
6 Arbitrator: Do you  [have your lease] with you?
7 Interpreter: [She’s on the lease.]
8 Está [con su] contrato de arrendamiento?
{‘Do you have your lease with you?’}
9 Claimant: [Yes.]
Speak English or What?
186
directly to the litigant’s choice of words. Eades (2006:158) also notes that lexi-
cal struggle is asymmetrical in that attorneys tend to “correct” the lexical
choice of witnesses rather than vice versa. This is also true of lexical struggles
between litigants and interpreters, as litigants are not found to “correct” an
interpreter’s use of an English-origin item. This is true of litigants speaking
other languages as well, even in the case of the Russian interpreter who uses a
large number of insertions. Moreover, litigants do sometimes accommodate
their lexical choices to those of the interpreter. For example, the claimant of
excerpt (25) initially used landlord but then substituted dueño after the Span-
ish term had been used by the interpreter. However, given the underlying mo-
tivations for speech accommodation (Coupland 2001), it is not surprising that
litigants should rather want to accommodate to the speech of arbitrators than
to the speech of interpreters. In any case, the salient contrast that is estab-
lished between divergent forms further illustrates the accommodative func-
tion of repetition as a potential signal of approval and acceptance of other
speakers and their utterances, which it was argued to have above.
While some examples of divergent lexical choice between interpret-
ers and litigants can be found with speakers of other languages as well, the
competing lexical items are never juxtaposed so immediately as in excerpt
(25), or even as in those involving self-correction as in excerpt (24). It ap-
pears that this practice is characteristic of Spanish interpreters, as it was ob-
served in the speech of five different Spanish interpreters. Moreover, such
divergent lexical choices are directed not only against English insertions but
also against cognates that have undergone semantic extension to include the
meaning of the English word. Consequently, several interpreters are found
to use the word alquiler ‘rent’ where litigants routinely use renta (as do some
other interpreters; see Table 6.2). Table 6.3 shows divergent lexical choices of
Spanish-speaking interpreters and litigants that occurred within the same
interactional episode.23
While the lexical choices of litigants reflect either a
cohesive insertion of English lexical items or an established loan or loan shift
in the vernacular contact variety, those of the interpreters reflect a decon-
textualized use of a standard variety of Spanish. As evidenced by examples
of self-correction, it is not the case that single speakers always use one form
exclusively. Table 6.3 also includes cases where either the interpreter or the
litigant used both forms while the other participant used only one.
One of the two Spanish interpreters who did not engage in such lexical
struggles is Jorge, the interpreter who was found to accommodate to litigants
by using a target-centered approach to interpreting (see Chapter 4) and who
interrupted English speakers to facilitate consecutive interpreting (see Chap-
ter 5). In contrast to his colleagues, he also produced one example in which he
substituted an English insertion for a Spanish equivalent, parallel to the wit-
ness in excerpt (12). This is shown in excerpt (26), where he chooses English
lanes immediately after using the Spanish term vías de tráfico ‘lanes of traffic.’
187
Codeswitching in the courtroom
While this self-repair may result from an uncertainty about the Spanish term,
it also suggests that he is confident that the recipient of his translation, a
Spanish-speaking witness, is familiar with the English item lanes.
TABLE 6.3.
Contested terms in the speech of Spanish-speaking participants
Interpreters’ lexical choice Litigants’ lexical choice English gloss
alfombra carpeta ‘carpet’
fumigador exterminator ‘exterminator’
dueño landlord ‘landlord’
contrato de arrendamiento lease ‘lease’
candados lockas ‘locks’
gerente manager ‘manager’
giro money order ‘money order’
socorredor real estate ‘real estate broker’
alquiler renta ‘rent’
boleta ticket ‘ticket’
asistencia pública/bienestar público welfare ‘welfare’
(26)
1
2
Lawyer: How many lanes of traffic were there northbound on
Kingston?
3 Interpreter: Cuántas vías de tráfico, lanes, habían de tráfico?
{‘How many lanes of traffic, lanes, were there of the traffic?’}
Like in the examples above, this suggests that the use of certain English
items may actually improve communication between interpreter and litigant.
This was pointed out by one Spanish interpreter with whom I discussed the
issue of English insertions and lexical choice (he was not among the inter-
preters included in this analysis).24
He told me that when he first started to
work as a court interpreter, he insisted on using “proper Spanish” but found
that this would confuse Spanish-speaking witnesses or litigants, so he had
decided to accommodate to their usage. The fact that he is a speaker of Ar-
gentine Spanish may have contributed to his willingness to accommodate,
because he already accommodated phonologically to speakers of other vari-
eties in order to be understood. Cross-dialectal convergence and divergence
in lexical choice between speakers of different varieties has been observed in
New York City Spanish (Zentella 1990), and in some cases interpreters and
litigants were in fact speakers of different varieties. In their study of Spanish-
dialect contact in New York City, Otheguy and Zentella (2012:114) note that
racial and socioeconomic distance prompts many Spanish speakers from the
Latin American mainland to resist dialect accommodation to speakers of
Caribbean Spanish, even though the latter are more numerous in New York
Speak English or What?
188
City. However, these attitudes were evidently shared by several court inter-
preters of Caribbean origin (as in the case of the interpreters in excerpts (24)
and (25)), which suggests that these ideologies are primarily rooted in socio-
economic rather than regional difference.
It follows that the lexical choices of interpreters are best interpreted as re-
sulting from language ideology and from attitudes toward particular groups
of speakers. If the coexistence of multiple varieties of Spanish in New York
City alone is not a sufficient reason to explain the different lexical choices
of interpreters and litigants, it is certainly a contributing factor to the stig-
matization of Caribbean Spanish (internalized by many of its speakers) that
has been described extensively in the literature (García et al. 1988; Zentella
1997b; Toribio 2000). At the same time, the speakers of these stigmatized
varieties are perceived as particularly susceptible to interference from Eng-
lish (see García et al. 1988:497; Zentella 1997b:180). This was expressed by
the same Argentine interpreter quoted above, who told me that he felt that
Puerto Ricans and Dominicans “butcher the beautiful language of Pablo
Neruda” by (allegedly) saying things like el roofo. This hypothetical example
underscores the perception of English insertions or loans as spurious, a per-
ception that does not recognize the discursive function that real insertions
actually fulfill in the speech of court users, as argued above. As language
professionals, interpreters are invested in standard language ideology, but
this can result in choices that antagonize litigants and impede communica-
tion in the courtroom.
Bilingual speech in bilingual interaction
The analysis of the use of codeswitching and insertion has shown that both
phenomena can be understood as resulting from LOTE speakers’ participa-
tion in an interaction with English speakers. They may switch to English
to make themselves better heard, perhaps to emphasize a point or to self-
select as next speaker, or they may repeat important English words that other
participants used before. Both phenomena can be understood as related to
accommodation, especially given the litigants’ obvious need to gain approval
from English-speaking arbitrators. This analysis may be taken to suggest
that speakers use codeswitching and related phenomena deliberately and
strategically, but this is not necessarily the case. As cited above, Woolard
(2004:75) notes that codeswitching speakers can be viewed as employing the
“full range” of their linguistic resources, and she argues that it is instead the
act of restricting oneself to a subset of one’s linguistic resources that should
be seen as extraordinary and as warranting an explanation. LOTE-speaking
participants who are L2 English learners do make use of the full range of the
resources available to them as they interact with speakers of both languages
189
Codeswitching in the courtroom
during interpreter-mediated interaction. Whether deliberately or intuitively,
they choose those linguistic resources that are best suited to the communi-
cative task at hand, and the question to which language a word “belongs”
may be less important than the fact that it was used previously in the same
discourse by another participant. Consequently, the bilingual speech phe-
nomena described in this chapter should not be viewed as idiosyncratic fea-
tures of mixed language varieties (e.g., so-called Spanglish) but rather as
interactionally meaningful ways of using both languages while participating
in a bilingual interaction. Following García (2009:44–51), they can also be
described as examples of translanguaging—that is, as “discursive practices in
which bilinguals engage in order to make sense of their bilingual worlds” (p.
45) and that are the “communicative norm of bilingual communities” (p. 51).
This view of codeswitching as a normal, possibly unintentional practice
is supported by psycholinguistic research that has shown that bilingual-
ism can’t be “turned off”—that is, bilinguals (including L2 learners) are
not able to completely deactivate one of their languages (Grosjean 2001:2).
Moreover, hearing the other language used by the interpreter and others is
likely to have a priming effect that further counteracts even a partial deac-
tivation.25
Similarly, accommodation is “not necessarily either enacted or
evaluated with full awareness” (Giles, N. Coupland, & J. Coupland 1991:24).
In fact, Trudgill (2004:28; 2010:190) argues that accommodation is a rela-
tively automatic process, following a maxim postulated by Keller (1994:96),
which holds “talk like the others talk.” Moreover, Trudgill (2010:190) draws
on psychological research by Cappella (1997:65), who argues that mutual
adaptation is “arguably the essential characteristic of every interpersonal
interaction” and an aspect of “the relatively automatic behaviours mani-
fested during social interaction.” In other words, accommodation is not
limited to language but is part of an innate human tendency to coordinate
and adapt one’s behavior to that of others, a fact that is arguably related to
the notion that human communication is fundamentally cooperative (To-
masello 2008). Despite this relative automaticity, accommodative behavior
that is salient enough to be perceived by participants may be interpreted as
intentional and as indexing cooperative attitude, and Ochs (1992:351) argues
that it is “universally associated with demeanor of lower towards higher
ranking parties.”
If we accept that accommodation is indeed the default for human com-
municative behavior, we can predict codeswitching in the speech of LOTE-
speaking litigants, but we also need to explain why such accommodative
phenomena are absent in the speech of other participants. In many cases,
this absence results from lack of proficiency in the LOTE among arbitrators
or English-speaking litigants.26
In other cases, namely with interpreters or
with arbitrators who speak Spanish, the lack of accommodation (i.e., diver-
gence) must be seen as motivated in ideologies about language and law. For
Speak English or What?
190
arbitrators, it may result from a desire to appear neutral by avoiding displays
of empathy. For interpreters, the divergent lexical choices discussed above
result from adherence to a standard language ideology and from an ideology
of translation that defines translation equivalence independent of the discur-
sive or sociocultural context. In all these cases, divergence may stand in the
way of successful communication.27
The impact of these language ideologies
will be the focus of the concluding chapter.
191
7
Language ideology and legal outcomes
It is often claimed that court interpreting should put the speaker of another
language on an equal footing with participants who speak the language of the
court (Mikkelson 1998:22; Hale 2004:9; Shlesinger & Pöchhacker 2008:2), but
the chapters in this book have demonstrated that this goal is not attainable.
In New York Small Claims Court, litigants who speak a language other than
English are systematically disadvantaged for several reasons. As shown in
Chapter 5, the use of consecutive interpreting mode for translation into Eng-
lish causes their narratives to be fragmented, reducing coherence and prompt-
ing interruptions by other participants. By contrast, English speakers can
narrate without such constraints, because their testimony is usually translated
in simultaneous mode. In addition, the use of simultaneous interpreting mode
for the translation of English testimony increases the likelihood that trans-
lation is incomplete and that important information is lost. More generally,
interpreting limits the ability of LOTE speakers to check their own under-
standing or that of their interlocutors, as participants in interpreter-­
mediated
interaction generally do not produce response tokens. LOTE speakers are also
disadvantaged because their language choice may be evaluated negatively by
other participants, no matter whether they speak in the LOTE or in English.
In Chapter 1, it was shown that the choice of the LOTE is sometimes con-
strued as misleading about the speaker’s proficiency in English, and thus as
indexical of dishonesty more generally. In Chapters 5 and 6, it was shown that
the use of English is often criticized if it occurs against a recommendation by
arbitrators, interpreters, or court staff. As noted by Haviland (2003:772), lan-
guage choices that violate institutional policy can come to be seen as “willful
acts of disobedience.” Either way, LOTE speakers thus run the risk that their
language choice comes to be seen as indexing negative social attributes.
These disadvantages result from language ideologies that are prevalent
in the legal system and in society more generally. For example, the negative
Speak English or What?
192
evaluation of language choices rests on a monolingual language ideology
that assumes that monolingualism is normal and treats bilingualism as an
exceptional skill that only interpreters possess (Angermeyer 2008). In line
with this ideology, speakers are categorized either as speakers of English
or as speakers of another language, and they are expected to use only one
language throughout their hearing, as the use of the LOTE is deemed syn-
onymous with “not speaking English” and “needing” an interpreter. This
produces conditions in which the litigants’ limited bilingualism becomes a
source of criticism and suspicion, and use of the “wrong” language can come
to index negative social attributes or actions, such as deception and disobedi-
ence. As seen in Chapters 5 and 6, this monolingual ideology also generally
prevents participants from using both of their languages, for example by nar-
rating in L2 English but having the interpreter translate other participants’
English testimony into the LOTE.
The participation of LOTE speakers in small claims proceedings is
further affected by language ideologies about language and communica-
tion. In particular, these include a referential ideology of language that sees
the primary function of language in the ability of words to refer to exter-
nal meanings (Silverstein 1979), as well as the belief that communication is
achieved solely by the speaker “putting thoughts into the right words”—that
is, the conduit metaphor (Reddy 1979). Applied to translation and interpret-
ing, these ideologies underlie the legal system’s assumption of referential
transparency—that is, the notion that competent court interpreters are able
to produce renditions that are fully equivalent to the source talk, so that
translation is nothing more than the substitution of “one language’s word
for another’s, as though the word, or code, is merely an exotic costume for a
shared meaning” (Haviland 2003:772). Arguably, the fact that LOTE speak-
ers are discouraged from speaking English is also rooted in this ideology be-
cause it leads legal professionals to assume that LOTE speakers are better
served by using the LOTE. If communication is believed to depend solely
on “putting thoughts into words,” then participants can be taken to benefit
from doing so in their primary language, rather than in an L2. However, this
view ignores the dialogic nature of communication and the need for inter-
locutors to monitor and check each other’s understanding. Moreover, this
view is directly contradicted by studies of language choice in intercultural
communication. For example, Coulmas (1987:100) postulates a maxim called
the communication control principle, arguing that “if you speak your interloc-
utor’s mother tongue well enough to make yourself understood use it. Then
you know exactly how much he understands of what you say. Allowing him
to use your mother tongue does not afford you this advantage.”1
In addition,
the insistence on interpreting instead of L2 English use also runs counter to a
preference for same-language talk that has been observed in many bilingual
settings (Auer 1984:23–24).
193
Language ideology and legal outcomes
The observed practices of language choice and court interpreting in small
claims court can thus be seen as interfering with communication between
LOTE speakers and English-speaking participants. This is true not only of
the imposed language choice but also of other practices of individual arbitra-
tors and interpreters that were observed. As shown in Chapter 3, arbitrators
differed in how they conducted arbitration hearings, especially in the extent
to which they allowed litigants to present information and in the amount of
time they were willing to devote to a hearing. Also, individual interpreters
differed in how they approached the task of interpreting, as shown in Chap-
ters 4, 5, and 6. The majority of staff interpreters, especially among the Span-
ish interpreters, adhered closely to institutional norms in their use of direct
translation for interpreting into English and into the LOTE, but also in their
lexical choices and in their adherence to the typical distribution of consecu-
tive and simultaneous interpreting modes. By contrast, a small number of
other interpreters accommodated to litigants by treating them as addressees
of all talk in the LOTE (Chapter 4), by attempting to use consecutive mode
even when LOTE speakers were unaddressed recipients (Chapter 5), and by
converging to their lexical choices (Chapter 6). These individual differences
among the interpreters and the arbitrators can be understood along a con-
tinuum of accommodation, namely whether they are willing to work toward
mutual understanding, verifying that LOTE speakers have understood them
and confirming their own understanding of LOTE speakers’ speech. In con-
trast to those who are willing to do so, the “fast” arbitrators and most of
the court interpreters appear to place the burden of communication solely
on the LOTE speakers, expecting them to make themselves understood and
to present testimony in institutionally acceptable ways but doing nothing
themselves to facilitate this process. Consequently, this leads to the observed
asymmetry in accommodative practices. While the success of LOTE speak-
ers in court depends on their ability to make themselves understood to an
English-speaking arbitrator, English speakers in court (whether arbitrators
or English-speaking litigants) do not suffer negative consequences if they are
not understood by LOTE speakers, and so they are less likely to modify their
way of speaking to facilitate communication.
Communication in court is thus affected both by the linguistic resources
available to LOTE speakers and by the willingness of English-speaking par-
ticipants to accommodate to them. As pointed out by Lippi-Green (1994:
185–187) in her study of accent discrimination, the burden of communication
is shared by all participants and comprehension depends on mutual willing-
ness to establish common ground and check understanding. Claims of unin-
telligibility may thus mask prejudices against nonnative speakers on the part
of the listener and an unwillingness to engage in “reasonable accommodation”
(Matsuda 1991:1379–1380). These views are supported by research on commu-
nication between native and nonnative speakers more generally, which has
Speak English or What?
194
found that comprehension requires collaboration and mutual acceptance of
repetitions or interruptions for such purposes as requests for clarification or
for confirmation of understanding (see, e.g., Long 1983; Kaur 2010). In small
claims court, such a lack of willingness to cooperate in communication with
LOTE speakers is particularly evident in cases in which litigants are accom-
panied by an English-speaking attorney who can be asked to speak on their
behalf. This is illustrated in the following excerpts from a case involving a
Haitian claimant, a landlady who found her testimony ignored by the “fast”
arbitrator. The claimant was involved in a dispute with her former tenants, a
West Indian couple who had been forced to move out after a city inspector had
determined that their apartment violated the city’s building code and could
not be rented out legally. The tenants had then stopped paying rent but stayed
in the apartment for a few more months until they found a new place to live.
This prompted the landlady to sue them, with the help of an attorney. The ten-
ants countersued her, and they also sued the real estate broker who had found
the apartment for them. They sued for the return of the broker’s fee they had
paid as well as for a reimbursement of their moving costs, and they claimed
that the landlady and the broker had known all along that the apartment was
illegal. The landlady in turn claimed that the tenants had known this before
they moved in. As the original claimant in the case, the landlady was asked to
give testimony first and she chose to speak in L2 English, as shown in excerpt
(1). In response to the arbitrator’s broad opening question, she is prepared
to narrate her claim like pro se litigants do (see Chapter 3), but her attorney
interferes (lines 7–10), attempting to explain the claim on her behalf. However,
when the arbitrator asks a second question, a yes/no interrogative in lines 13
and 15, the claimant responds again, and her answer differs slightly from that
of her attorney, as she denies having had a lease (line 16), while he claims that
there was a month-to-month tenancy (line 19).
(1)
1 Arbitrator: Why are you suing for non-payment of rent and
2 [failure to return property?]
3 Interpreter: [Pou ki sa ou asiyen-l] paske [li pa peye lwaye?]
{‘Why do you sue him/her because (s)he didn’t pay rent’}
4 Claimant: [I- I s- ]
5 I sign because uhm uh when he came in my house
6 and then uhm-
7 Attorney: Uh- you know what (.) let- maybe let me start off, and then
8 I’ll let Ms. Blanc fill in. (.8) This- there was
9 a landlord and tenant relationship between the parties,
10 Ms. Blanc was the- (.) uh: is the owner of the premises,
11 what’s the address?
12 Claimant: (.) Seventy four three East Eighty Third Street=2
195
Language ideology and legal outcomes
Perhaps because of potential discrepancies, the arbitrator (a “fast” arbi-
trator who serves twice a month on average) does not want to let the attorney
take over for his client, despite the fact that his course of action appears likely
to facilitate the hearing for her. In telling the attorney to let his client speak,
the arbitrator is referring to an accepted and often explicitly stated rule that
attorneys are not supposed to testify on behalf of their clients. At the same
time, the comment she was doing fine (line 24) concedes that this may depend
on her performance as a witness. The hearing thus continues with the claim-
ant’s testimony. As shown in excerpt (2), she continues to speak English, but
her utterances are characterized by nonnative syntax and pronunciation.
With frequent pauses and hesitation markers, her testimony appears some-
what discontinuous and labored, and in line 33 the arbitrator interrupts to
offer her the opportunity to speak through the interpreter, although appar-
ently unaware what language she might be speaking.
13 Arbitrator: =Was there  [a lea-]se?
14 Attorney: [She-]
15 Arbitrator: (.) between the parties?
16 Claimant: (1.1) I didn’t give her a lease (.) because I told her,
17 (.) uh when [he came-]
18 Attorney: [Excuse] me, hold on one second.
19 There was- it was a month to   [month tenancy]
20 Interpreter: [(xxx)]
21 Attorney: (.) Uh:-
22 Arbitrator: Well, let her talk.
23 Attorney: (. ) Oh
24 Arbitrator: She-  [she was] doing fine.
25 Attorney: [Okay]
(2)
26 Arbitrator: [Go ahead]
27 Claimant: [When he came] at- when they came at my house,
28 (.) and I told her uhm uh
29 (.) I (can’t) rent to people (.) this place because it’s (illegal),
30 (.6) and they tell me they miss uh one because uhm
31 uh something happen,
32 and then the real estate uhm uh (.7) call me-
33 Arbitrator: =You can use your regular language,
34 your interpreter will explain it,  [if you-=]
35 Claimant: [Okay=]
36 Interpreter: =Si ou santi ou pi alèz nan kreyòl la,
{‘If you feel more at ease in Creole, you can,’}
37 (ou toujou mèt fè l).
{‘(you can always do it)’}
Speak English or What?
196
While the arbitrator’s suggestion appears understandable in that there is
clear evidence of limitations in the claimant’s L2 proficiency in English, it is
noteworthy that excerpt (2) contains no further signs of communication dif-
ficulty. The arbitrator does not indicate that she has failed to understand the
claimant’s prior speech, nor does she seek confirmation or clarification from
her. Nonetheless, the claimant agrees to continue her testimony in Haitian
Creole. As shown in (3), she reprises points from her earlier turn, namely the
assertion that the defendants knew that the apartment could not legally be
rented out (compare lines 28–29 above and 41–42 below) and that this fact
motivated her to not give them a lease (line 16 above and line 45 below). The
interpreter produces renditions that are not particularly close, as evidenced for
example by his rendition of rete la ‘stay there’ as rent the place in line 44, and
his addition of valid in line 46. However, the interpreter’s renditions do present
coherent testimony in native syntax, which also edit out the disfluencies in the
claimant’s testimony. The excerpt also shows that he is willing to verify his own
understanding by asking which of the two defendants she is referring to (note
that the Haitian Creole third-person singular pronoun li is gender-neutral).
(3)
38
39
Claimant: Okay. (,) And then uhm uh, sa m fè (.) li vini, li mande mwen
eh-
{‘okay and then what I did, (s)he came, (s)he asked me’}
40 Interpreter: gason oubyen fi a?
{‘the guy or the girl’}
41 Claimant: f- tou- uhm fi a. (.) Epi m di l li ilegal
{‘g- all- uhm the girl. And then I told her it’s illegal’}
42 pou de moun rete la a paske mwen menm m pou kont mwen.
{‘for two people to stay there, because I was there on my own.’}
43 (.) [Epi m di-].
{‘And then I said’}
44 Interpreter: [I told them] that it’s illegal (.7) to (.8) /rent the place.
45 Claimant: (1.1) M pa ba l lease +
{‘I didn’t give her a lease’}
46 Interpreter: (1.1) That’s why I didn’t (.) give them a valid lease.
Having twice presented the orientation of her narrative, once in Eng-
lish and once in Haitian Creole, the claimant is now ready to move on to
the complicating action, namely the fact that the defendants got the city’s
Department of Buildings involved, by calling the city (line 48 in excerpt (4)).
However, her testimony is again interrupted, only this time by the arbitrator.
As can be seen in lines 50 and 51 in (4), the arbitrator revokes her earlier deci-
sion to let her talk and gives the floor back to the attorney. After an exchange
of metapragmatic comments between them in lines 53 to 59, the attorney once
197
Language ideology and legal outcomes
again takes over the testimony from the claimant, and he begins an account
of the dispute that can be described as highly rule-oriented, in contrast to
the claimant’s more relational account (see the discussion of Conley’s and
O’Barr’s framework of legal discourse in Chapter 3). As a result, the attorney
and the arbitrator quickly establish mutual understanding about the relevant
facts of the case, as shown in lines 61 to 69 (and in continuing dialogue that is
not shown). In contrast to her reaction to the claimant’s testimony (whether
in English or in Haitian Creole), the arbitrator now provides feedback to the
attorney, first by producing an acknowledgment token (mm-hm, line 62), and
then by beginning a confirmation question (Okay so it was an illegal- in line
67), which is immediately confirmed by the attorney (right line 68). Thus she
is willing to share the burden of communication when her interlocutor is a
fellow legal professional but is apparently not inclined to do so when speak-
ing with LOTE-speaking litigants. Meanwhile, the claimant continues speak-
ing in lines 52 and 56, but her turns are no longer translated by the interpreter.
She is ignored by the other participants, yet she may not immediately be aware
that her speaking rights have been revoked, because neither the arbitrator nor
the attorney has addressed her in person. Instead it is the interpreter who tells
her to stop speaking, in a form that cannot readily be identified as a rendition
of talk by the arbitrator or attorney (line 60).
(4)
47 Claimant: (.6) So, (.) lè mwen fini, sa li fè,
{‘So, when I was done, she did this,’}
48 li [rele city a]
{‘she called the city’}
49 Interpreter: [Afterwards] (.) what (.) she  [did she called the city]
50 Arbitrator: [Why don’t you (.) finish]
51 c- examining  [your witness.]
52 Claimant: [So lè l fin fè ] call [city a +]
{‘So after she finished calling the city’}
53
54
Attorney: {speaking under his breath} 
[I- I was] trying to do that
before
55 [Your Honor.]
56 Claimant: [I call] city  [a +]
{‘I called the city’}
57 Arbitrator: [Be-]cause she was talking, she- (.)
58 [I understood.]
59 Attorney: [I know, I know.]
60 Interpreter: [(xxx) kanpe, kanpe,] kanpe, kanpe. {to claimant}
{‘stop, stop, stop, stop.’}
61 Attorney: (1.4) It’s a landlord and tenant situation.
62 Arbitrator: Mm-hm.
Speak English or What?
198
The exchange of metapragmatic comments in lines 50 to 59 reveals the
arbitrator’s attitude toward interpreted testimony. In particular, the attor-
ney’s mildly complaining comment in lines 53–55 motivates her to explain
why she has changed her mind with regard to the claimant’s testimony. In
particular, she contrasts the claimant’s initial turns, when she wanted to let
her talk (see excerpt (1)), with the current testimony, when she wants the at-
torney to speak for her. Earlier, as she says in lines 57 and 58, the claimant was
talking and she understood. Now, this comment seems to imply, the claimant
is not “talking” anymore and is no longer “understood” by the arbitrator.
Given the fact that the claimant had spoken English earlier but is speaking
(mostly) Haitian Creole now, one cannot escape the conclusion that the arbi-
trator is unwilling to listen to interpreted testimony, despite the fact that she
urged the claimant not to speak English in the first place. The arbitrator’s
comment because she was talking underscores the extent to which speakers
of languages other than English can be perceived as nonparticipants. How-
ever, when LOTE speakers are absent from the participation framework of
the English part of the interaction, it is the court interpreter whose voice is
supposed to stand in for theirs (see Chapter 6). So even if the landlady is per-
ceived as “not talking,” the arbitrator should recognize that the interpreter
is talking on her behalf. The reaction thus suggests that the arbitrator’s un-
willingness to cooperate with interlocutors extends to the interpreter. Like
the claimant, he is Haitian and speaks English slowly and with a nonnative
accent, though clearly producing a coherent sequence of grammatical sen-
tences. While it cannot be determined what specifically motivates the arbitra-
tor’s reaction, an unwillingness to listen to nonnative speech may well be a
factor. In fact, such an attitude toward “accented” English could explain both
her request to the claimant to not speak English (excerpt (2)) and her reac-
tion to the interpreter’s speech in excerpt (4). Clearly, if accent discrimination
of the type discussed by Matsuda (1991) and Lippi-Green (1994, 1997) does
occur in court, it would affect both LOTE-speaking litigants and interpreters
who are native speakers of the LOTE.4
Similarly, Lev-Ari and Keysar (2010)
found in psycholinguistic experiments that native speakers evaluated nonna-
tive speakers as less truthful than native speakers, even in situations where
the nonnative speakers were merely acting as animators of somebody else’s
words (i.e., comparable to the court interpreters in this study).
63 Attorney: Uhm (1.4) the occupancy:- I’m not sure whether it was uh:
64 against the C of O at /first, (.) but ultimately it was.3
65 There was an extension put on the house
66 (.) the- the (.) first floor (.) and a garage were combined. (.8) Uhm
67 Arbitrator: Okay so  [it was an illegal-]
68 Attorney: [the combination-] (.) Right, the combination
69 (.) ma:de a once /legal first floor into an illegal first floor.
199
Language ideology and legal outcomes
In addition, excerpt (4) also illustrates again how LOTE-speaking liti-
gants use bilingual speech phenomena in their attempt to communicate with
English speakers. In Chapter 6 I argued that codeswitching to English and the
insertion of English items into LOTE structures can both be seen as attempts
to accommodate to English speakers and to improve cohesion across lan-
guage boundaries. In excerpt (4), the claimant also produces bilingual speech
phenomena that can be considered insertions of English into Haitian Creole
structures, but to a degree that can be described as code-mixing (Muysken
2000). In fact, as she is being excluded from the interaction by the arbitra-
tor, she gradually uses more and more English. This is evident in comparing
three parallel structures in lines 48, 52, and 56, which all refer to the action
of calling “the city.” In the first instance, the noun city is the sole English ele-
ment and it is inserted in a Haitian structure that includes a subject pronoun,
a verb, and a determiner (li rele city a ‘she called the city’ in line 48). In the
second instance, the verb is also in English, albeit without overt tense mark-
ing (lè l fin fè call city a ‘after she finished calling the city’ in line 52). Finally,
in the third instance, even the subject pronoun is in English, leaving the post-
posed determiner as the only overt Haitian Creole morpheme, despite the fact
that the syntactic structure is in Haitian as well (I call city a ‘I called the city’
in line 56). This increased use of English lexical items does nothing, however,
to regain the attention of the arbitrator. But when the claimant speaks again
later in the hearing, in response to closed questions from the arbitrator or
from her attorney, she speaks only English.
The situation of “Ms. Blanc,” the Haitian landlady, parallels that of
Mr. Bessonov in Chapter 5, as both claimants were discouraged from using
nonnative English but then suffered negative consequences from speaking
through an interpreter. However, in contrast to Mr. Bessonov, she can at least
expect that her interests will be represented by the attorney who is asked to
speak instead of her (and, in fact, she ultimately won her claim). Nonetheless,
the apparent lack of willingness on the arbitrator’s part to listen to testimony
from the claimant runs counter to the notion of small claims court as an in-
formal venue suitable for pro se litigants, and this converges with the findings
of previous chapters. In Chapter 3, it was shown that arbitrators who expect
rule-oriented testimony are often not willing to actively elicit it from litigants
who do not present such testimony on their own. Similarly, Chapters 5 and
6 showed that the ability of LOTE speakers to narrate their testimony is af-
fected by the willingness of arbitrators and interpreters to accommodate to
them. In the case discussed above, this lack of willingness is especially appar-
ent if we compare the arbitrator’s reaction to the claimant’s speech (whether
in L2 English or Haitian Creole) to her interaction with the attorney, which is
markedly more collaborative (e.g., in the use of feedback noted above). Con-
sequently, what can be observed as a narrative inequality thus results at least
in part from an inequality of listener cooperation. The promise of equality
Speak English or What?
200
before the law is compromised when representatives of the legal system are
not equally willing to listen to all litigants, irrespective of whether they speak
English or not, or whether they present their claim in a rule-oriented or
relationship-oriented way.
Legal outcomes
The analysis in this book has thus clearly demonstrated ways in which
LOTE speakers are disadvantaged when it comes to the task of narrating
the “story” of their dispute. This raises the question of whether these disad-
vantages lead to adverse legal outcomes for LOTE-speaking litigants. While
individual cases suggest that legal outcomes could be affected by misunder-
standings or by arbitrators’ attitudes toward different types of testimony
(see Chapter 3), it is not possible to establish a direct link between these
discursive processes and the decisions taken by arbitrators. It is possible,
though, to survey legal outcomes in general to investigate whether certain
factors correlate with a higher or lower rate of litigant success. Using such
a quantitative methodology, sociolegal studies of small claims court have
hypothesized that the outcome of a hearing may be affected by factors such
as the presence of an attorney on either side (cf. Sarat 1976:367), the litigants’
experience with the court (cf. Sarat 1976:365; Abel 1982b:297), their orienta-
tion to rules or relationships respective to the style of the judge or arbitrator
(cf. Conley & O’Barr 1990), or the subject matter of the case, the amount sued
for, or even the atmosphere and caseload at a particular courthouse (Abel
1982b:278–279). Following the analysis in the previous chapters, one would
want to consider further factors specific to this study, such as the language
choices of both claimant and defendant, and the differences between source-
oriented and target-oriented interpreters (see Chapter 4). Given this large
number of potentially relevant factors, a statistically reliable analysis of legal
outcomes was beyond the scope of this study.
Among the proceedings that I observed, 92 involved arbitration hear-
ings in which a final decision was made that I was able to determine from
court records (excluding claims that were dismissed for being against the
wrong party).5
In 52 of these cases (56.5%), claimants were awarded some or
all of the money they had sued for, whether by judgment or in a stipulation
of settlement.6
LOTE-speaking claimants won in 55% of cases (41/74), while
English-speaking claimants won in 61% (11/18).7
While this does not suggest
a significant disadvantage for LOTE speakers, the overall rate of successful
claims is rather low compared to those reported in sociolegal studies of small
claims court, where it has been noted that “plaintiffs are disproportionately
successful in small claims courts” (Abel 1982b:296). For example, in their
survey of studies on small claims court usage, Yngvesson and Hennessey
201
Language ideology and legal outcomes
(1975:255) found that plaintiffs won “at least 74% of the cases going to judg-
ment (and frequently more).” Similarly, Sarat (1976:364) found that 78.3% of
claimants in arbitration hearings received at least a third of the amount of
their claim. Given that the sample of observed cases is not random, I con-
sulted court records to estimate the overall rate of successful claims. In doing
so, I decided to focus on cases heard at the court in Brooklyn, due to sys-
tematic differences between the courthouses that were described in Chapters
2 and 3. As noted there, the court in Manhattan generally has fewer cases
and more available arbitrators than the other two courts. This reduces the
caseload for individual arbitrators, so that most arbitrators in Manhattan
have a relatively “slow” style. By contrast, the court in Queens represents
the other extreme, where very few arbitrators are available, and several of
them are insurance lawyers who take a “fast” approach to arbitration. Given
that the style of arbitration could be expected to have a significant impact on
legal outcomes, I thus decided to focus on the Brooklyn court, where both
styles were well represented (as were all four focus languages).8
I randomly
chose to consult all court records for one month during my fieldwork period,
and I determined that claimants won in 67% of all cases heard by arbitrators
(98/147, excluding counterclaims) and 80% of cases heard by judges (20/25).
These findings suggest that the overall success rate in Brooklyn is comparable
to those of previous studies mentioned above, but they also suggest that the
observed success rate for LOTE-speaking claimants (56.5% overall, and 43%
in Brooklyn with 13/30) is lower than the overall average for all claimants.9
It is possible that a lower success rate for LOTE-speaking claimants may
result from the observed narrative inequality—that is, from the difficulties
these claimants face when trying to narrate their claims. However, the legal
outcomes for LOTE-speaking claimants may also be affected indirectly by
the court’s practices in assigning cases to individual arbitrators. As noted in
Chapter 3, clerks prefer to give their cases to “fast” arbitrators because they
are concerned that the interpreting process will take up too much time. At the
Brooklyn courthouse, half of all decided cases that I observed (21/42) were
heard by just two arbitrators, who closely fit the profile of a “fast” arbitrator
(including the arbitrator shown in excerpts (1) to (4) above). The remaining
21 cases were heard by 13 other arbitrators, all of whom can be character-
ized as slow by comparison. The two “fast” arbitrators decided in favor of a
claimant in 33% of their cases overall (7/21) and in 31% of cases with a LOTE-
speaking claimant (5/16). By contrast, the slower arbitrators made judgments
for the claimant in 62% of their cases (13/21), including 57% of those with a
LOTE-speaking claimant (8/14). While these numbers are too small to permit
strong conclusions, they suggest that a lower success rate of LOTE-speaking
claimants might not result necessarily from adverse treatment by individual
arbitrators but rather from the court’s tendency to assign their cases to im-
patient arbitrators who dismiss claims more readily than other arbitrators.10
Speak English or What?
202
While the different approaches of arbitrators may thus correlate with a dif-
ference in legal outcomes, the impact of different interpreting styles cannot
be estimated, because the three exceptional, recipient-oriented interpreters
Jorge, Yves, and Jerzy (see Chapter 4) combined represent only seven cases,
of which four were won by the LOTE-speaking party.
Overall, it is clearly possible for LOTE-speaking claimants to succeed
in small claims court, but on average they appear less likely to do so than
English-speaking claimants. The findings of this study also support previous
analyses in law and society research that take a skeptical view about the ben-
efits of informal justice to inexperienced court users, in particular if informal
justice is dispensed under conditions where the courts’ capacity to engage in
meaningful dispute resolution is “constantly undermined by the pressure to
process caseload” (Abel 1982b:278–279). The courts’ efforts to process case-
load speedily may be especially detrimental for LOTE speakers if it causes
their cases to be assigned to impatient arbitrators and prompts arbitrators to
interrupt them instead of hearing them out (see Chapter 5).
Implications beyond small claims court
For a legal system concerned with guaranteeing equality before the law to all
court users, there are thus certain conclusions to be drawn from this study. In
particular, this study has pointed out problematic aspects of several practices
that are common in cases involving participants with limited proficiency in
English, namely the distribution of interpreting modes with its negative con-
sequences (see Chapter 5), the policy of individual monolingualism (i.e., the
“all-or-nothing rule” of interpreting; see Chapters 5 and 6), and the insistence
on direct translation for interpreting into the LOTE, where it may alienate
and confuse the LOTE-speaking recipient (see Chapter 4). While the find-
ings are specific to small claims court, they may be generalized to other legal
settings to some extent, especially settings where first-person narration is im-
portant and where examiners have little or no prior knowledge of the facts at
hand. One such venue is asylum hearings, where applicants also need to pres-
ent convincing narratives to succeed with their case. In fact, studies of asylum
interviews have made similar observations about the restriction of language
choice, with applicants being prevented from speaking the language of the
interviewer (Jacquemet 2005a, 2011:481; Maryns 2012:310) or being accused
of deceit if they do (Maryns 2012:304). Moreover, the indexicality of language
varieties is especially pertinent in asylum hearings, as applicants’ linguistic
repertoires are routinely evaluated as evidence for or against a claim (see the
widespread institutional practice of “language analysis in the determina-
tion of origin,” cf. Eades & Arends 2004). Such assessments are often based
on language ideologies that assume that applicants have L1 fluency in the
203
Language ideology and legal outcomes
national language of their alleged country of origin, and thus refugees’ claims
are rejected if their linguistic repertoires do not conform to such assumptions
(Blommaert 2009; Jacquemet 2011:481–482). In addition, studies of asylum
interviews have found ample evidence of communication difficulties result-
ing from differences in linguistic repertoires (Blommaert 2001; Jacquemet
2011), both when applicants communicate in an L2 (for a particularly striking
example see Maryns 2006:1) and when they speak through an interpreter. In
particular, Maryns (2013:682) argues that interpreters often do not render
the emotionality of the source narrative, even though this may be a crucial
factor in the assessment of an applicant’s credibility. Consequently, the adop-
tion of “standby” interpreting, as described in Chapter 5, could mitigate such
communication difficulties, but this is unlikely as long as the communicative
value of flexible language choice is outweighed by the social meanings that it
simultaneously indexes.
A flexible approach to interpreting, which recognizes that different kinds
of proficiency are required for different interactional tasks, could also be ap-
plied to other legal settings where the “all-or-nothing” rule of language choice
is adhered to and codeswitching is prohibited. Such institutional determina-
tions of language choice have been described matter-of-factly for police inter-
rogations (Russell 2002:119–120) and formal trials (De Jongh 1992:77), but
given the findings discussed in Chapters 5 and 6, one can argue that LOTE
speakers should not be prevented from speaking English; just as importantly,
if they do speak English, that fact should not be taken to imply that they do
not “need” an interpreter for other tasks, such as understanding legal instruc-
tions or complex questions (e.g., instructions about Miranda rights; Solan &
Tiersma 2005:82).
In formal trials, the “all-or-nothing” rule of language choice does not
have the same consequences for the participation of LOTE speakers that it
has in small claims court, even though the distribution of interpreting modes
is usually the same. In particular, LOTE-speaking witnesses in formal trials
are unlikely to produce extended narrative turns because their testimony
is constrained by the questions of the examining attorney, which are often
designed to elicit short answers (see Chapter 3). Consequently, consecutive
interpreting is less likely to lead to further fragmentation, so that the testi-
mony of LOTE speakers does not differ from that of English speakers in this
respect. However, the use of simultaneous interpreting in situations where the
LOTE speaker is an unaddressed recipient is likely to have the same adverse
effects that it has in small claims court. Given the cognitive burden exerted by
simultaneous interpreting and the lack of suitable working conditions (such
as frequent breaks or the use of audio equipment), it is doubtful whether court
interpreters are able to consistently produce close renditions of everything
said in English, even though courts fully expect them to do so. Consequently,
there is a risk that important information may be left untranslated when
Speak English or What?
204
simultaneous mode is used, for example during the examination of English-
speaking witnesses, closing arguments, or sentencing. At the same time, this
potential disadvantage for LOTE-speaking defendants is likely to be miti-
gated by the presence of an attorney who can be counted on to understand
what is said in English. Nonetheless, if the goal is to put non-English speak-
ers on an equal footing with English speakers, the consistent use of short
consecutive interpreting appears more likely to guarantee equality of access
to the information produced during the trial. Studies of court interpreting
have generally focused on the examination of other-language speakers but
have devoted less attention to other trial phases and have therefore not ques-
tioned the use of simultaneous interpreting mode, despite the fact that the
interpreter’s working conditions are typically not conducive to its use (but
see Licoppe & Vernier 2013 on the use of consecutive mode in all trial phases
when defendants appear via videoconferencing).
Overall, the findings point toward a need for a greater understanding of
the pragmatics of interpreter-mediated courtroom interaction, how it differs
from same-language interaction, and how communication can be achieved
in a given interactional context (e.g., taking into consideration differences
between examination and testimony by pro se litigants). Research on court
interpreting has often implicitly placed the responsibility for preserving the
rights of LOTE speakers on the interpreter, by investigating translation prac-
tices and suggesting that problems with interpreting can be resolved through
better interpreter training and supervision. Similarly, the prevalent attitude
to interpreting in the legal system holds the interpreter responsible for the
production of translations that are equivalent to their corresponding source
but does not consider how the court could facilitate the interpreting process
or verify its results (see Haviland 2003). The analysis in Chapter 5 has shown
that the interpreter’s performance is in fact greatly influenced by external fac-
tors, such as noise and other working conditions, and especially the degree to
which other participants collaborate with the interpreter by producing source
talk that is designed to facilitate the interpreting task. At the same time, im-
proved working conditions can reduce the risk of miscommunication or loss
of information, but they do not change the fact that interpreter-mediated in-
teraction is inherently different from interaction in the same language, due
to the fragmentation of narratives and the general absence of comprehension
checks. Because of such factors, communication is more difficult to achieve
in interpreter-mediated interaction, and this inherently disadvantages LOTE
speakers even in the best of circumstances. In addition, this study has shown
that the indexical meanings of language choice can work against LOTE-
speaking participants in court by affecting assessments of their credibility,
irrespective of whether they choose to speak English or not.
The disadvantages experienced by LOTE speakers result from institu-
tional language policies and their underlying language ideologies, in particular
205
Language ideology and legal outcomes
the standard language ideology, which holds Standard English to be a neutral
vehicle of communication that is equally accessible to all citizens. In this ide-
ology, a person’s lack of proficiency in Standard English is viewed as his or
her individual shortcoming, as noted by Silverstein (1996:295) and Haviland
(2003:769). Any disadvantage experienced by speakers of nonstandard lan-
guage varieties can thus be rationalized (and excused) as resulting from the ac-
tions of the speakers themselves—that is, from their failure to speak correctly
(Milroy 2001:536). This view does not recognize that the disadvantage is in
fact created by the courts and other institutions, as they define which language
variety can be legitimately used in them for institutional purposes, and thereby
inherently privilege speakers of this variety over those with limited or no pro-
ficiency in it. Moreover, as argued by Bourdieu (1991:76), institutions like the
court draw some of their authority from the use of linguistic resources that
have high symbolic value in the linguistic market precisely because they are not
available to everyone. In small claims court, this ideology became particularly
apparent when court interpreters were used in hearings in which all partici-
pants were speakers of Spanish, including the arbitrator (Angermeyer 2014).
When asked about this practice, one arbitrator, who was a native speaker of
Spanish from Cuba, told me that speaking English gave him “more authority”
and commanded “greater respect” from Spanish-speaking litigants.
Given these findings and observations, it can be concluded that research-
ers on multilingualism in the legal system should not view court interpreting
as the sole answer to linguistic diversity. Competent court interpreters can
alleviate the inequality that inherently results from language policies of the
legal system, but they cannot eliminate it. Consequently, court interpreting
should be seen as a lesser evil, not as an option that is inherently superior to
the use of L2 English (where possible) or to conducting hearings in another
language. In fact, the observed exceptional use of Spanish by arbitrators in
cases in which both parties were Spanish speakers provided an alternative to
court interpreting that is clearly advantageous for the litigants but also repre-
sents a more efficient use of the court’s resources (see Angermeyer 2014). As
argued by Ng (2009b), the high concentration of Spanish speakers in many
parts of the United States warrants a wider use of the language in institu-
tional settings, especially in relatively informal settings such as small claims
court. This distinguishes Spanish from other LOTEs, where the relevant cir-
cumstances are less likely to arise with sufficient regularity. While I did ob-
serve some cases in which both parties were speakers of Russian or Polish,
I did not encounter arbitrators who could have conduced hearings in one of
these languages. The fact that Spanish is understood by some institutional
representatives and occasionally used by them points further to the special
status of Spanish in the linguistic market of New York City and in other parts
of the United States, which may be better described as a second vernacular
than as a minority language.
Speak English or What?
206
For the litigants, the experience of communicative disadvantages is ulti-
mately tied to the legal outcomes of their cases. As noted above, many LOTE-
speaking claimants are not successful with their claims. Irrespective of the
legal reasons for the judgment, they are likely to perceive this outcome as
unjust and as being affected by language choice—that is, attributing it to
their inability to use the right English word at the right time (cf. Urciuoli
1996:103). In Chapter 6, I argued that codeswitching results from litigants’
attempts to communicate directly with the arbitrator—“to use the right Eng-
lish word”—rather than relying solely on the mediation by the interpreter.
This analysis can explain the cross-linguistic parallels in the distribution of
insertion and codeswitching, as speakers of all four focus languages are in the
same position vis-à-vis English-speaking arbitrators (Angermeyer 2010). In
addition, the analysis of language contact phenomena in the data also shows
parallels to the findings of many other studies that were conducted based on
ingroup interaction in migrant communities around the world. This suggests
a connection between the microsociolinguistic context of the courtroom in-
teraction and the macrosociolinguistic context of language contact in New
York and in the United States more generally. Arguably, the interactions in
court and the LOTE speakers’ perceptions of them can be understood to be
emblematic of the accommodative pressures that operate on immigrants and
that provide the motivation for the interrelated processes of second language
acquisition, codeswitching, contact-induced language change, and, ulti-
mately, language shift. While many languages coexist in people’s daily lives
in New York City, the court enforces the social dominance of English through
the asymmetrical relationships between the participants, where positions of
power are invariably occupied by English speakers. As shown throughout
this book, LOTE-speaking individuals risk being marginalized and treated
as nonparticipants. Interpreters can speak for them, but they can provide
only limited support that is constrained by their allegiance to the court and
its norms of interaction. Ultimately, it is clear that immigrants need to speak
English to truly make their voices heard.
207
Appendix: Transcription conventions
[ ] Square brackets are used to indicate the beginning and end of
overlapping speech.
= = Equal signs mark the beginning and end of contiguous utterances
by different speakers (i.e., utterances with no break or pause in
between them). They may also mark a continuous utterance by
a single speaker that was broken up in the transcript in order to
facilitate the display of overlapping speech.
(.) marks a brief pause of less than 0.5 seconds
(1.7) marks a timed pause, with length in seconds
English Underlining is used for English words that are inserted into LOTE
structures or that are spoken by a litigant who codeswitches between
English and the LOTE.
{‘gloss’} English glosses of LOTE utterances are given in curly brackets with
single quotation marks.
{laugh} Characterizations of speech delivery or other comments are given in
curly brackets in italics.
(guess) Parentheses are used to mark transcriptionist’s doubt
(xxx) and inaudible segments.
un: ticket Colons are used to mark the lengthening of the preceding speech
sound.
/he has one Slash is used to mark emphasis of the following syllable (e.g., con-
trasting stress).
it- it A hyphen marks an interrupted or self-interrupted speech, for ex-
ample a false start.
? indicates rising intonation
. indicates a falling intonation contour
, indicates continuing intonation
+ indicates that a speaker’s pauses (often within an utterance) can be
attributed to the process of consecutive interpreting. This is accom-
panied by a “continuing” intonation.
209
NOTES
Chapter 1
1. On average, transcribing took an estimated 30 hours per hour of recording, a
rate that can be explained by the fact that transcribing was complicated by frequent
overlap of speakers, due to the presence of the interpreter. Seven recordings of hearings
with Spanish-speaking participants were not included in the original corpus and were
transcribed later by research assistants at York University.
2. One research assistant wrote to me about one case: “I am very emotional work-
ing on the text. I was very upset with [the English-speaking defendant] when he kept
laughing and made [the LOTE-speaking claimant] upset.” Even in cases where both par-
ties originated from the same country, my assistants appeared to identify more with the
LOTE-speaking litigant than with the English-speaking compatriot. By contrast, I also
worked with one assistant who was not a native speaker of the LOTE (Spanish), and this
assistant did not appear to identify with Spanish-speaking litigants at all.
Chapter 2
1. A brief history of small claims court in New York can be found on the website of
the New York court system at http://nycourts.gov/courts/nyc/smallclaims/civilhistory.
shtml (accessed September 20, 2013). According to Harrington (1982:55), a citywide
small claims court was first established in New York in 1917 as a branch of municipal
court.
2. In addition to providing guidelines for court clerks about interpreter availability,
the schedule shown in Table 2.1 also largely avoids conflicts for interpreters who travel
between courthouses, as the same language is generally not scheduled on the same day
for two different courthouses.
3. At the Brooklyn court, I was given access to court records, which I consulted
to estimate interpreter use and to survey legal outcomes. I copied down all decisions
for a sample month during my fieldwork time, and I found that 10% (19/188) of cases
in the calendar were marked as involving a court interpreter. However, during that
period I observed additional cases with interpreters that were not marked as such in the
calendar, so the actual number was surely higher. It may be that the records included
only those cases where interpreting was requested by the claimant at the time of filing
the claim and not those where the need for interpreting became apparent in court (see
Chapter 4).
4. The inherent problems in predicting interpreter demand for a large number of
languages are described by Viens et al. (2002:290) for Montreal. They describe patterns
where certain languages are in great demand for a short period of time but then not again
for a while, concluding “ces éléments rendent aléatoire la planification du recrutement
210 Notes to Pages 20–26
des interprètes et peuvent parfois causer des maux de tête à la coordonnatrice” (these
elements make the planning of interpreter recruitment a matter of chance and, at times,
they can create headaches for the coordinator).
5. In addition, I observed 13 hearings that were conducted in Spanish by Spanish-
speaking arbitrators but without an interpreter (see Angermeyer 2014).
6. I was unable to obtain official counts of interpreter usage by courthouse, but ac-
cording to the court administration, about two thirds of all full-time interpreters who
are employed statewide are interpreters for Spanish (see New York State Unified Court
System 2011:6).
7. While neither of them spoke Standard Polish, the two claimants also varied
between each other, especially in the absence or presence of auxiliaries and of gender
agreement on plural participles. If auxiliaries were used, they were always cliticized to
pronouns and not to participles as in Standard Polish. My Polish-speaking research assis-
tant perceived the speech of one of the two litigants as “Ukrainian-ish.” However, this was
not confirmed by my Russian-speaking research assistant, who also speaks Ukrainian.
8. At a preliminary hearing I heard a comment by a judge that suggested that the
litigants had asked for interpreting in either Polish or Russian.
9. This is primarily a consequence of my placement in court, which often precluded
unmediated contact with the litigants. Litigants were informed about my study by court
clerks and arbitrators, who also requested consent to audiorecording on my behalf. This
procedure was required by the court administration, but it was also the most practical,
as it ensured that my presence did not interfere with the workings of the court. More-
over, in this institutional context, lay participants are likely to be focused on interacting
with court officials and are not likely to be receptive to requests from people who have
no institutional role. On a few isolated occasions I was able to speak with litigants after
their hearing had concluded.
Overall, my movements in court were thus monitored and constrained by court
clerks and officers, who were generally very helpful, and it would have been impossible
for me to conduct my study without their support. They defined the boundaries of my
ability to look behind the scenes, but they also opened doors for me, as other people got
used to seeing me with them. Most importantly, they introduced me to arbitrators and
interpreters, or, if I introduced myself to request their consent to being recorded, the
clerks and officers were available to assure them that my study had been approved by the
court administration.
10. This distinction between different varieties of Haitian Creole likely corresponds
to a difference in requests for French versus Haitian Creole interpreters. Some Haitian
litigants request an interpreter for French instead of Haitian Creole. One French inter-
preter who was not Haitian commented to me that he did not want to be assigned to such
cases because the litigants would inevitably switch to Haitian Creole (he also interpreted
Romanian and Italian, and rarely worked as a French interpreter). As far as I could tell,
requests for French interpreters in Brooklyn were typically assigned to one of the Hai-
tian Creole interpreters, who could also speak French.
11. This distribution of case types corresponds to that found by Sarat (1976:356) in
his study in Manhattan small claims court.
12. Section 8 is a federally subsidized program that gives rental assistance to low-
income families, allowing them to rent apartments at market rent. The tenants pay the
211
Notes to Pages 28–43
landlord 30% of their income as their share of the rent and Section 8 pays the rest. Land-
lords participate in the program voluntarily.
13. Cases involving car accidents were less common in Manhattan than in Brooklyn
or Queens, which is not surprising, as fewer residents of Manhattan own cars than do
residents of the “outer” boroughs. This may contribute to the fact that the court in Man-
hattan tends to have a lighter caseload than the other two courts.
14. Ruhnka & Weller (1978:28) observed the same phenomenon in Washington,
D.C.: “[W]e found two or three private attorneys always present in small claims court
who were on retainer with corporations, businesses, and insurance companies to handle
all of their cases which showed up in small claims court. As did the judge, they usually
saw a case for the first time when the docket was called.”
15. For example, the manager of a furniture store testified that it was not company
policy to pay employees who had been let go for their remaining vacation time. In
another case, the manager of a restaurant stated that full-time dishwashers were not
entitled to paid vacation at all (see excerpts 4 through 6). On another occasion, the
employee of a hair salon stated in an inquest hearing that it was the salon’s policy to
withhold a week’s worth of pay if an employee quit the salon. In the two latter cases, the
employee’s weekly salary amounted to approximately $300 each.
16. The court system recognizes this problem, and in its 2006 Action Plan it pro-
poses the use of remote interpreting by video conference or telephone when interpret-
ing is needed spontaneously in settings outside of courtrooms (New York State Unified
Court System 2006).
17. In their survey of 15 small claims court in the United States, Ruhnka and Weller
(1978:175) found that serving claims to defendants was “the number one problem” and
reported that “court clerks in several cities had indicated up to half of all small claims
cases filed never went any further because of lack of service.”
18. The company’s name consisted of a building address, but that address was dif-
ferent from the mailing address, which may easily have confused the claimant, the court
clerk, or the postal service.
19. According to court records, the claim was ultimately dismissed by a judge. I was
not present for the final hearing, nor for some of the preceding ones.
Chapter 3
1. While the New York civil court administration uses the term “trial” indiscrimi-
nately, at least in communication with litigants, I reserve its use for judge-led trials and
will use the terms “arbitration” or “arbitration hearing” to describe proceedings led by
arbitrators.
2. The text of the announcement is sometimes displayed in writing at the entrance
to the courtroom (reproduced here in replication of original formatting):
SMALL CLAIMS INFORMATION
PLEASE READ BEFORE ENTERING COURTROOM
GOOD EVENING LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
BECAUSE OF THE LARGE NUMBER OF CASES ON TONIGHT’S CALEN-
DAR, IT WOULD BE IMPOSSIBLE FOR THE JUDGE TO TRY ALL OF THE
212 Notes to Pages 44–44
CASES. THEREFORE, IN ADDITION TO THE JUDGE, WE HAVE MANY AR-
BITRATORS AVAILABLE TO ASSIST THE COURT AND TRY THESE CASES.
THE ARBITRATORS ARE COURT APPOINTED, EXPERIENCED ATTOR-
NEYS WHO HAVE VOLUNTEERED THEIR TIME TO TRY SMALL CLAIMS
CASES. MOST CASES ARE HEARD BY ARBITRATORS.
WHEN THE CALENDAR IS CALLED, PLEASE STAND AND REPEAT YOUR
NAME.
IF BOTH PARTIES ARE PRESENT, YOU WILL GET AN IMMEDIATE
TRIAL TONIGHT IF BOTH PARTIES AGREE TO HAVE AN ARBITRA-
TOR TRY THE CASE. HOWEVER, IF YOU CHOOSE TO HAVE YOUR CASE
HEARD BY THE JUDGE, SAY “READY BY THE COURT.” KEEP IN MIND,
YOU MAY HAVE TO RETURN TO COURT SEVERAL TIMES BEFORE
YOUR CASE CAN BE REACHED FOR TRIAL BY A JUDGE.
WHEN YOUR CASE IS SENT TO AN ARBITRATOR, THERE IS A CARD
WHICHYOUWILLBEASKEDTOSIGN.YOURSIGNATUREONTHISCARD
WILL INDICATE THAT YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE ARBITRATOR’S
AWARD IS FINAL AND BINDING ON BOTH SIDES AND THAT THERE’S
NO APPEAL. HOWEVER, IF YOUR CASE IS TRIED BY THE JUDGE, IT
IS POSSIBLE TO APPEAL FROM A JUDGE’S DECISION. PLEASE NOTE
THAT AN APPEAL MAY BE EXPENSIVE AND TIME CONSUMING.
IF ONLY THE CLAIMANT IS PRESENT, AND THE DEFENDANT DOESN’T
APPEAR THIS EVENING, THE CLAIMANT WILL BE SENT TO AN AR-
BITRATOR FOR AN INQUEST. EVEN IF THE DEFENDANT DOES NOT
APPEAR, YOU MUST STILL PROVE YOUR CASE AT AN INQUEST.
IF ONLY THE DEFENDANT IS PRESENT, AND THE CLAIMANT DOESN’T
APPEAR THIS EVENING, THE CASE WILL BE DISMISSED.
IF YOU NEED AN ADJOURNMENT, FOR EXAMPLE TO ADD AN ADDI-
TIONAL PARTY, TO CHANGE THE AMOUNT OR TO MAKE A REQUEST
BECAUSE YOU ARE NOT PREPARED TO PROCEED, REPEAT YOUR NAME
AND SAY “APPLICATION.”
WHEN YOU HEAR YOUR NAME CALLED, PLEASE STAND AND ANSWER
WITH YOUR NAME, IN A LOUD, CLEAR VOICE.
THANK YOU!
October 3, 2000
3. The speed of processing arbitration cases varied greatly by courthouse. Of the
three courthouses where I conducted fieldwork, the Manhattan small claims court had
the smallest caseload and the largest number of volunteer arbitrators, so the court was
often able to process all the cases on the docket that were ready for a hearing. By con-
trast, litigants in Brooklyn and Queens often had their case adjourned to a later date
even if they agreed to arbitration. The Queens courthouse in particular struggled to have
enough arbitrators. In part, this was likely due to the court’s location in Jamaica, which
213
Notes to Pages 44–62
does not have a significant concentration of office buildings in the vicinity and would
be out of the way for attorneys working in Manhattan or western Queens. By contrast,
the civil courts in Brooklyn and Manhattan are in downtown locations that are easy to
reach for volunteer arbitrators who want to stop by on their way home from work. As a
consequence, the court in Queens often relied on insurance lawyers to double as arbitra-
tors once they had finished the cases in which they acted as lawyers.
4. See http://www.courts.state.ny.us/COURTS/nyc/smallclaims/sc_volunteeropps.
shtml, accessed September 25, 2013.
5. At the courthouse in Queens, some of the volunteering arbitrators are already in
court as attorneys on retainer with insurance companies to appear in cases involving car
accidents. They sometimes appeared to receive preferential scheduling of their insurance
cases so that they could work as arbitrators once their hearings were done. I observed
several cases where one such insurance lawyer/arbitrator conducted an arbitration hear-
ing in which another insurance lawyer was involved as attorney for the defendant. The
Queens court relied heavily on these insurance lawyers, as the number of “regular” vol-
unteers was much lower than in Manhattan or Brooklyn. This phenomenon illustrates
potential problems with the policy of relying on arbitrators instead of judges.
6. Hearings in which a settlement was negotiated were thus effectively akin to me-
diation sessions, which are conducted in many courts throughout the United States.
Mediation processes have received considerable attention in sociolegal research (see,
e.g., Garcia 1991). Conley and O’Barr (2005:40) note that one problem with mediation
sessions is that litigants may “make concessions that are neither required by the law nor
consistent with their interests.” On the other hand, it has been noted that settlements
achieved through mediation are more likely to be complied with by the parties than are
adversarial judgments (McEwen & Maiman 1984).
7. This was an insurance lawyer acting as arbitrator.
8. I was told by a clerk that the court administration in Brooklyn preferred it if
arbitrators sat at the bench.
9. Philips’s (1998) label of “record-oriented” judges seems less appropriate here,
since there is no court record of arbitration hearings. However, it could be argued that
“fast” arbitrators orient toward the absence of a court record by reducing litigant in-
struction and testimony to an absolute minimum.
10. Moeketsi (1999:5) reports similar circumstances from courts in the South Af-
rican Free State province. She observed that even if all participants were speakers of
Southern Sotho, hearings were conducted in Afrikaans or English with a court inter-
preter because the court records were kept in these languages.
11. As I show in Angermeyer (to appear), some litigants arrive in front of an arbitra-
tor without having understood the distinction between trial and arbitration and without
having deliberately opted for arbitration. In response to the request for consent, some
litigants are reluctant to waive their right to appeal and state a preference for a trial
by judge, which remains a possibility until the consent form is signed. In most cases,
arbitrators and interpreters discourage litigants from doing so and ultimately manage
to elicit their consent.
12. In New York City, rent-control laws limit a landlord’s ability to raise the rent on
continuing tenants. Landlords therefore often stand to gain substantially when an old tenant
movesoutandanewtenantmovesin,especiallyinneighborhoodsundergoinggentrification.
214 Notes to Pages 70–81
Chapter 4
1. Among the court interpreters employed by the court system, some are multilin-
guals who translate several LOTEs, often ones that are less commonly requested. For
example, I encountered three different interpreters for Romanian, each of whom trans-
lated two other languages as well (including French, Greek, Hungarian, and Italian).
2. In her study of court interpreting in the United States, which focuses on Span-
ish interpreters, Susan Berk-Seligson (1990:271, fn.1) characterizes the typical court in-
terpreter as female. In contrast to her findings, the majority of the court interpreters I
observed were men (39/66), although not among the Spanish interpreters (8/17). Angelelli
(2001:90) found that 70% of all court, medical, and conference interpreters she surveyed
were women.
3. Many of the court interpreters in New York are also members of the National
Association of Judicial Interpreters and Translators (NAJIT), which has its own binding
code of ethics: http://www.najit.org/about/NAJITCodeofEthicsFINAL.pdf (accessed
December 6, 2013).
4. According to an administrator I interviewed, all senior interpreting supervisors
in the New York court system were former Spanish interpreters at the time of my field-
work.
5. The notion that the interpreter is part of a team of court personnel is an explicit
policy of the court system, as stated in the Action Plan of the New York State Unified
Court System (2011:11–12).
6. The exceptionality of Spanish is clearly recognized by the courts. For example,
the New York State Unified Court System distinguishes two different job titles, one for
court interpreters for Spanish and one for languages other than Spanish (UCS Court
Interpreter Manual and Code of Ethics). Perhaps it is time for U.S. linguists to add the
acronym LOTS (languages other than Spanish) to that of LOTE.
7. In language contact studies, the Tok Pisin term “wantok” has been used to de-
scribe this social category of having a shared L1 in a multilingual context.
8. Specifically, Berk-Seligson (1990) finds that interpreters vary in how they trans-
late English passive constructions into Spanish, either using constructions that empha-
size agency, such as active constructions (yo rompí ‘I broke’) or true passives followed
by por ‘by’ (  fue roto por mí ‘it was broken by me’), or using forms that omit or downplay
agency, such as reflexive passives (se rompió ‘it broke’) or datives of interest (se me rompió
‘it got broken on me’). Focusing on trials in the southwestern United States of undocu-
mented immigrants and the smugglers they pay to cross the border, Berk-Seligson argues
that the interpreters’ choice of construction correlates with their attitudes toward the
person whose action is being described. Consequently, she finds that interpreters use
overt expressions of agency when they interpret statements about the actions of border
guards or smugglers, toward whom they feel antipathy (Berk-Seligson 1990:109–112). By
contrast, they avoid such forms (and thus background individual responsibility) when
translating statements about the actions of undocumented migrants, with whom they
empathize.
9. The absence of a court record for arbitration hearings removes the need for in-
terpreters to use first person in order to produce utterances that can be read in the tran-
script as originating from a litigant. However, all interpreters in small claims court are
professional interpreters who also work in formal trials, and they don’t see arbitration
215
Notes to Pages 82–108
hearings as a context where the normal rules of court interpreting should be suspended.
If anything, they tend to complain about the arbitrators’ failure to adhere to the same
standards as judges.
10. Inghilleri (2003) argues that the conduit model of interpreting is derived from
dominant models of communication in linguistics, beginning with Saussure. However,
one could argue with Reddy (1979:296) that “the conduit metaphor is a real and power-
ful semantic structure in English,” preceding linguistic models in shaping perceptions of
communication and interpreting.
11. In a very small number of exceptional cases, deictic shift involved only second-
person reference to the target recipient, and first person was still reserved for the source
speaker (see Angermeyer 2009:17).
12. The notion of community norms for nonprofessional interpreting is not wide-
spread in interpreting studies. However, Valdés’s (2003) study of child interpreters, for
example, provides evidence that parents who rely on their children as interpreters have
clear expectations about how they want interpreting to be conducted.
13. There were also 68 instances of indirect speech for which the corresponding
source did not contain a first-person reference.
14. For example, the New York State Unified Court System has issued a “bench-
card” for judges on “Working with Interpreters in the Courtroom,” in which judges are
encouraged to monitor the interpreter’s use of first or third person as a way of assessing
his or her performance (New York State Unified Court System 2008: Appendix L). In-
terestingly, the benchcard does not ask judges to avoid addressing the interpreter instead
of the witness.
15. Jerzy had acted in a similar manner earlier in the hearing when he explained the
difference between arbitration and a trial by the court instead of letting the arbitrator do
so, as is normally the case (see Chapter 3). I also observed him talking to the claimants
during the waiting period before the hearing began (he had traveled to the courthouse
specifically for this hearing).
Chapter 5
1. Both the need to understand and the need to be understood are equally part of
the legal rationale for court interpreting, which has derived from the right to due proc-
ess for defendants in criminal trials—that is, the right to understand the charges and to
participate in one’s own defense.
2. The decision to use a court interpreter can be taken at different points during
the legal process. Claimants may request an interpreter upon filing their claim, in
which case the court will schedule the hearing for a date when an interpreter is avail-
able. Alternatively, litigants may request an interpreter when they appear in court for
their hearing, or a court clerk, judge, or arbitrator may decide that an interpreter is
needed. If the decision is taken at the time of the first court date, it generally leads
to a postponement of the hearing, when no interpreter for the required language is
present.
3. Such an incorrect assignment of articles is in fact characteristic of the speech of
Russian learners of English (see, e.g., Pavlenko 2008:10) and is also found in the claim-
ant’s speech (see the driver in line 25 of excerpt 2).
216 Notes to Pages 109–111
4. Wadensjö (1998:107–108) distinguishes seven types of divergent renditions, based
on the ways in which they diverge. They include “expanded renditions,” which contain
more information than the source, and “reduced renditions,” which contain less, as well
as a combination of the two, namely “substituted renditions.” Where correspondences
involve multiple source or target utterances at once, Wadensjö identifies “summarized
renditions,” which correspond to two or more prior source utterances, either by the
same speaker or by different speakers, as well as “multi-part renditions,” where mul-
tiple target utterances correspond to a single source utterance. However, these catego-
ries are not truly mutually exclusive, as a summarized rendition can also be expanded
or reduced. These types contrast with utterances that do not function as translations
(“non-renditions”) as well as with instances where source input is not translated at all
(“zero renditions”).
5. One example is from a malpractice suit against a dentist. Here the arbitrator
twice interrupts the Russian interpreter to ask a question (was it half in lines 9 and 11)
that the claimant had already answered (èto pjat’desjat procentov ‘it was fifty percent’
in line 7) but that had not yet been successfully translated, because of the arbitrator’s
interruptions. However, in contrast to excerpt (3), the interpreter in this case gives pre-
cedence to the litigant instead of the arbitrator. As can be seen, he translates none of the
arbitrator’s turns after the initial question (lines 1–2), until he has finished translating
the claimant’s response. Thus he omits the arbitrator’s elaboration on the question (line
5), as well as the follow-up question, which the arbitrator repeats impatiently (lines 9
and 11).
(i)
1
2
Arbitrator: How much of the work that she was supposed to do did she
actually do?
3 Interpreter: no skol’ko raboty, kotoruju ona dolžny byla sdelat’,
{‘but how much work, which she was supposed to do’}
4 naskol’ko ona faktičeski zakončila eë?
{‘to what extent did she actually finish it’}
5 Arbitrator: I mean you went twenty [visits so]
6 Claimant: [verx ona] sdelala, ploxo sdelala verx
{‘she did the top, she did the top
poorly’’}
7 nu sčitajte, čto èto pjat’desjat procentov.
{‘well, read (this), this was fifty percent’ pointing at bill}
8 Interpreter: = She did the top in the mouth. She did it bad but she did it +
9 Arbitrator: That was [half?]
10 Interpreter: [So you] can say that it [was fif-]
11 Arbitrator:   
[Was it half?]
12 Interpreter: Fifty percent.
6. For example, the length of turn-initial and turn-internal pauses has been shown
to vary cross-culturally, as has their pragmatic interpretation in context. In her de-
tailed study of cross-examinations of Aboriginal witnesses in Australian courts, Eades
(2008:107–114) shows that the witnesses’ responses to questions are often preceded by
silent pauses that are a common feature of Aboriginal discourse but that the attorneys
217
Notes to Pages 123–123
interpret as evasive. Moreover, the cross-examining attorneys frequently react with im-
patience to such silences and produce new questions or comments before the witness has
spoken. While such cultural differences may not play a role in the case discussed here,
the claimant does produce many turn-internal pauses when he speaks English (see line
22 in excerpt 2, as well as excerpts 8 and 9) but not when he speaks Russian (see also the
long silence after the arbitrator’s initial question in excerpt 1, when the claimant has the
floor but does not speak).
7. In a few instances, interpreters did not interrupt litigants who failed to pause
but instead attempted to translate the extended source turn after it was complete.
However, in such circumstances they did not succeed in providing close renditions.
Litigants thus succeeded in avoiding fragmentation but did not manage to have all
information from their source turn conveyed. This is illustrated in the following
excerpt, from a hearing with a Russian-speaking claimant. As the “fast” arbitrator
wants to conclude the hearing, he quickly tries to make a final point and does not
pause for the interpreter. The interpreter does eventually intervene (line 13) but not
as early as the arbitrator expects him too (see lines 7 and 9). When he finally trans-
lates the claimant’s extended turn, he leaves out some propositional content (the
mechanic’s threat to sell the car), and he begins with reported speech (line 14) and
then alternates between direct (lines 16 and 20) and indirect translation (lines 14, 18,
and 19).
(ii)
1 Claimant: eščë takaja vešč’ (.) tak-
{‘one more thing’}
2 Interpreter: One more  [thing]
3 Claimant: [uči]tyvaja, čto ja, značit, v tot moment, kogda, značit,
{‘considering that I, well, at the (same) moment when,
well’}
4 ètot mexanik (.) pred”javil mne ul’timatum libo on prodast mašinu +
{‘this mechanic gave me an ultimatum, either he sells the car’}
5 Arbitrator: (.)  [Okay-]
6 Claimant:    [tak?] (.) libo ja eë dolžen vykupit’.
   {‘you know, or I have to buy it out’}
7 Arbitrator: [What is he saying?]
8 Claimant: [libo ja eë dolžen vykupit’] (.) tak- (.) u [menja-]
{‘or I have to buy it out, you know, I had-’}
9 Interpreter: [He didn’t] /finish yet. =
10 Claimant: =U menja v èto vremja- U menja v èto vremja, tak?
{‘I had at the time- I had at the time, you know’’}
11 (.) nužno bylo oplatit’ straxovku (.) tak? (.)
{‘I had to pay the insurance, you know?’}
12 i ja straxovku  [(xxx xxx)-]
{‘and I xxx the insurance-’}
13 Interpreter: [Vy dolgo očen’ govorite] ja ne sumeju perevesti! =
{‘You talk for too long, I won’t be able to translate!’}
14
15
=He’s saying that he had a problem (.) to bail out his vehicle from
the shop
218 Notes to Pages 125–136
8. As noted in Chapter 3, I observed a small number of exceptional hearings that
were conducted in Spanish without an interpreter by bilingual arbitrators (see Anger-
meyer 2014).
9. Researchers studying interpreter-mediated interaction usually conceive of it as
a dialogic activity in which the interpreter translates between two people who do not
share the same language (hence the term dialogue interpreting). Because of this focus on
dialogic situations, face-to-face interpreting is typically described as being conducted
in the consecutive interpreting mode exclusively (Wadensjö 1998:49; Valdés, Brookes, &
Chávez 2003:25; Meyer 2004:19), even though the need for simultaneous interpreting
might arise if more than two people are present besides the interpreter.
10. I observed and recorded Yves several times, but he made such an interruption
only in the first hearing I recorded with him. It is possible that this reflected a con-
cern that his performance was going to be evaluated by me. On later days when I re-
corded him again, he did translate simultaneously but did so in such a whispered voice
(“chuchotage”) that parts of his translation are not audible on the recording.
11. Berk-Seligson (2012:422, 432) claims that skilled interpreters consider consec-
utive interpreting to be more difficult than simultaneous mode because it “requires a
great deal more reliance upon memory” (p. 422; see also Berk-Seligson 1990:2). Similarly,
Obler (2012:179) reports on an individual interpreter’s preference for simultaneous over
consecutive mode. However, both accounts neglect the distinction between short and
long consecutive modes (Pöchhacker 2004:183; Jacobsen 2012:218) and describe chal-
lenges that are characteristic of long consecutive mode, as interpreters are faced with
“units of several sentences” (Obler 2012:17) or extended turns (Berk-Seligson 2012:422).
If interpreters are expected to interpret entire turns, the cognitive challenge for the inter-
preter will vary greatly by turn length. When a litigant takes a long narrative turn with-
out interruption, it will be difficult for the interpreter to provide a close rendition once
the litigant’s turn is complete (see note 7). Instead, as seen throughout Chapter 5, con-
secutive interpreting in small claims court is typically done in short consecutive mode,
where speakers pause even within a sentence to facilitate interpreting by breaking their
talk down into smaller units. Consequently, short consecutive mode does not place the
same demands on short-term memory as long consecutive does (Obler 2012).
12. Studies of conference interpreting have argued that the often-monotonous into-
nation pattern of simultaneous interpreting interferes with listener comprehension (cf.
Shlesinger 1994). In this case, such an intonation may present an additional obstacle for
the attribution of interpreter renditions to different source speakers.
13. In the same excerpt, the judge also paraphrases the prosecutor’s argument to
provide specific input to the interpreter. This raises concerns about the roles of the par-
ticipants and the authorship of the input talk, which Licoppe and Vernier (2013) discuss,
but these are separate from the issue of interpreting modes.
16
17
because uh the auto mechanic (.) told me, if you don’t buy your car
out,
18 (.) and he also, adding that by that time it was kind of coincident
19 because he had to cover the insurance payment whatsoever
20 and so obviously I was in the dire straits.
219
Notes to Pages 140–159
14. Such a “standby” use of an interpreter who is otherwise assisting the opposing
party is illustrated in excerpt (iii), where a Dominican claimant who had been speaking
English turns to the interpreter for help with a vocabulary item. The interpreter helps
out, temporarily abandoning her previous task of translating into Spanish for the benefit
of the defendant. She merely confirms the claimant’s choice of disarm (line 5), so that one
could say that he doesn’t “gain” from her help, apart from perhaps being more assured
about continuing in English.
(iii)
1 Claimant: And they took the whole thing out,
2 [they took the whole thing out, to get to the engine.]
3 Interpreter: [Y todo eso lo sacaron, eso, para ]
{‘And all this they took out, this
4 poder  [llegar al motor.]
{‘to be able to get to the motor.’}
5 Claimant: [And they eh] dis- disarmed?
6 How you- ¿cómo se [dice, desarmar?]
{‘how do you say, disarm?’}
7 Arbitrator: [So did they-]
8 did they [open the [front?]
9 Claimant: [El- el [alternador.]
 {‘the- the alternator’}
10 Interpreter: [They disarmed-]
11 They disarmed the alternator.
Chapter 6
1. The 48 transcribed hearings that make up the dataset for this study included 67
LOTE-speaking litigants, and every one of them used some English. The transcribed
dataset also includes speech by 16 LOTE-speaking witnesses. Two of these did not use
any English words at all, but both spoke only very little (fewer than 50 words each).
2. Codeswitching by bilingual arbitrators occurred in a few exceptional cases where
all participants were speakers of Spanish (see Angermeyer 2014).
3. On a discourse level, one might argue that the institution of small claims court in
itself represents convergence toward the perceived needs of unrepresented litigants on
the part of the legal system.
4. This echoing is reminiscent of the practice called shadowing that is used in the
training of simultaneous interpreters as well as in psycholinguistic experiments, where
interpreters are asked to produce an “immediate verbatim repetition of the input in the
same language” (Pöchhacker 2004:117). Despite these similarities, I decided not to use
the term shadowing because echoing does not necessarily involve a verbatim repetition
but may consist of a paraphrase.
5. Where it modifies the form of the prior codeswitched utterance, echoing is thus
reminiscent of the phenomenon of adult expansions of children’s first utterances, which
has been observed in baby talk registers (cf. Ochs & Schieffelin 1984).
220 Notes to Pages 160–167
6. The transidiomatic character of certain Russian words became also evident in
my data, when an arbitrator commented on the use of pravda ‘truth’ in the interpreter’s
translation of the oath that witnesses are asked to swear.
7. See People v. Torres [1989] No. C003972, Court of Appeal of California, Third
Appellate District, 213 Cal. App. 3d 1248.
8. Of course, such rights are often restricted in courtroom talk, as lawyers con-
strain through their questioning how witnesses can describe their own experiences (see
Chapter 3).
9. An additional eight hearings were transcribed after the completion of the initial
phase of the research project. All of these involve Spanish-speaking litigants. These ad-
ditional data are not included in the quantitative results presented in this section or in
Chapter 4 but are considered in the discussion otherwise.
10. For example, my Russian-speaking research assistant commented that some
terms relating to housing issues do not have true equivalents in monolingual Russian due
to differences in the organization of the housing market (especially during Soviet times).
11. In this respect, the repetitive subject matter of small claims proceedings has a
beneficial side effect for the linguistic researcher, in that different people at different
times (and speaking different languages) are observed talking about more or less the
same things. As many cases in small claims court result from car accidents or from
disputes between tenants and landlords, employees and employers, or customers and
business owners, similar topics are discussed across hearings and similar forms of ev-
idence are presented. For example, when a claimant sues a defendant in order to be
compensated for damages to property, such as damages resulting from a car accident,
arbitrators ask to see either two estimates of the cost of repair or else a paid bill. As a
consequence, the English lexical items estimate and (paid) bill frequently occur in such
hearings, and interpreters translate them from English into their respective LOTEs and
vice versa. The following two excerpts illustrate this, based on excerpts from two hear-
ings involving different Russian interpreters. In (i), the interpreter translates the arbi-
trator’s two estimates and paid bill as dve ocenki (line 2) and oplačennye sčeta ‘paid bills’
(line 5). By contrast, the interpreter in (ii) twice uses the English item estimate in Russian
structures (line 3), although she uses the same Russian translation as her colleague for
paid bill (line 6).
(i)
1 Arbitrator: But you are in- Small Claims Court requires two estimates.
2 Interpreter: V sudy melkix iskov vy: dolžny prinesti dve ocenki.
{‘In the court of small claims you have to bring two estimates.’}
3 Arbitrator: (1.7) or a paid bill.
4 Claimant: (.7) [a otkuda vtoruju-]
{‘but from where the second--’}
5 Interpreter: [ili /o:/pla:-]čennye sčeta
{‘or paid bills’}
1 Arbitrator: Okay, I’m gonna ask your client for  [an estimate] of damages +
2 Interpreter: [ja (xxx)]
{‘I (xxx)’}
(ii)
221
Notes to Pages 168–176
Excerpt (i) thus provides evidence that the Russian noun ocenka can be considered
a translation equivalent of the English noun estimate—that is, the two items form a
“coupled pair of target- and source-text items,” in the terminology of Toury (1995). Fur-
thermore, a comparison of excerpts (i) and (ii) permits us to draw the conclusion that
the insertion of estimate by the interpreter in excerpt (ii) occurred despite the fact that
a “viable” LOTE alternative exists, namely the noun ocenka, as used by the interpreter
in excerpt (i).
12. Where no translation equivalent is attested in the data, this does not necessarily
preclude the existence of an alternative lexical item in the lexicon of the speaker or the
community, as my native-speaker research assistants pointed out possible alternatives to
me. Also, the size of the dataset plays a role in identifying equivalents, because the like-
lihood that an alternative occurs may be taken to increase with the number of recorded
trials. Proceedings concerning damages to cars are a case in point. While the datasets
of Spanish, Russian, and Polish speakers each contain at least two such hearings, the
dataset of Haitian Creole speakers contains only one. In this hearing, estimate is used as
an insertion, but a Haitian Creole alternative does not occur, although it might have in a
different hearing, if such a hearing had been recorded.
13. Insertions used by interpreters are overwhelmingly repetitions of lexical items
used earlier in the discourse (138/150, 92%; see Angermeyer 2010:478). This may be ex-
plained by the fact that interpreters generally don’t initiate topics, and in fact most inserted
lexical items are repeated from the corresponding English source talk (123/150, 82%).
14. Manager is attested as a loanword in monolingual Russian, borrowed from Eng-
lish (Andrews 1998:37). It is treated as an insertion because it can be used in English with
the same form and meaning. In fact, the claimant, the interpreter, and the arbitrator all
use the word in English sentences later on in the hearing.
15. This involved an arbitrator asking What’s the disputa?, using cohesive inser-
tion of Spanish disputa ‘dispute’ immediately after it had been used in Spanish by the
interpreter.
16. Mellinkoff (1963:374–375) links this phenomenon to a “tradition of precision by
precedent,” where, because of a general focus on the notion of precedent in the common
law legal system, word meanings are defined by reference to earlier uses of the same
word.
17. In fact, the potential ambiguity introduced into legal language by translation
may have given rise to the formation of many of the nominal doublets that are charac-
teristic for legal English. As pointed out by Mellinkoff (1963:121–122, see also O’Barr
1982:20), many of these forms combine two synonymous lexical items of which one is of
Old English origin and the other of Norman French origin (e.g., in swear or affirm). At the
time of language contact between Old English and Norman French (which lasted longer
in the legal sphere, cf. Thomason & Kaufman 1988:267), these synonyms presumably
3 estimate [o povreždenii] [mašiny, dva estimate-a +]
{‘estimate of the damage to the car, two estimates’}
4 Attorney: [two estimates or a -]
5 Arbitrator: [two estimates or paid bill]
6 Interpreter: ili oplačennyj sčët.
{‘or a paid bill’}
222 Notes to Pages 176–192
were translation equivalents, and naming both of them may have been a strategy to
avoid ambiguity (cf. Tiersma 1999:32). Note that by repeating a translation equivalent,
these doublets were originally parallel to some examples of self-translation found in the
data, as shown in excerpts (12), (19), and 26. As Mellinkoff (1963:120) writes, “what may
have once been rationalized as necessary translation soon became a fixed style.”
18. Contrary to the predictions of Backus’s (1996) specificity continuum, the data
contain several examples of lexical items that have highly culture-specific referents but
are referred to by a LOTE term rather than an insertion. The most striking example is
Section Eight, the name of a government housing subsidy program, which appears as
Sección Ocho ‘section eight’ in Spanish and as Vos’maja Programma ‘eighth program’
in Russian (see excerpt 17). Section Eight is used as an insertion only once by a Russian
interpreter, who immediately self-corrects to the Russian alternative.
19. Other examples of such semantic extension are found in the translations of “se-
curity deposit.” Both Russian depozit and Polish depozyt refer to a deposit of money in a
bank account, and appropriate monolingual translations of “security deposit” would be
zalog and kaucja, respectively. In addition, Spanish speakers use deposito de seguridad
(rather than fianza), which can be described as a combination of a loan shift and a calque,
since it combines two cognate terms following the model of an English compound.
20. For example, guidebooks for interpreters often include vocabulary lists of
translations for specific legal terms (De Jongh 1992) or lists of words that interpreters
should know to interpret in particular types of cases (Mikkelson 2000a).
21. Meyer and Zeevaert (2002:25) also found considerable differences between indi-
vidual interpreters in their rate of insertion use.
22. I am grateful to Ricardo Otheguy for pointing this out to me.
23. Table 6.3 follows the model of Woolard’s (1999:14) presentation of contested
Catalan/Castilian bivalent terms, in which she shows that some Catalan speakers sys-
tematically avoid lexical variants that are similar to Spanish cognates.
24. Because of the circumstances of the fieldwork (see Chapter 2), I generally did not
have the opportunity to talk with litigants, so I’m unable to address the issue of how they
might perceive the divergent lexical choices of interpreters.
25. This is suggested also by the findings of Berk-Seligson’s (1990) experiments with
mock jurors, where she found that the ratings of bilingual mock jurors were affected by
the speech style of the interpreter in English, even though the mock jurors were presum-
ably also listening to the Spanish source talk (p. 163).
26. The lack of proficiency in the LOTEs among English speakers is the outcome of
divergence at a macrosociolinguistic level, as English speakers in New York do not face
accommodative pressures to acquire Russian or Haitian Creole.
27. This is especially true in legal context, where the professional register is not
readily accessible to lay participants. As pointed out by Aronsson et al. (1987:113), diver-
gence during monological phases of trials may cause lay participants to be “more or less
totally excluded from the trial discourse.”
Chapter 7
1. Coulmas (1987:100) postulates two more maxims, which also predict the choice
of English in small claims proceedings: the local language maxim (“the local language
223
Notes to Pages 194–201
should be the first choice for any interaction between a foreigner and a native”) and
the intercultural communication maximizing maxim, which holds that “for any group of
speakers sharing two or more languages/varieties in common, the one that enables eve-
ryone to partake in the interaction to the best of his or her relative ability should be
chosen in order to make communication most efficient.”
2. All names are pseudonyms and all addresses are altered to prevent identification.
3. The phrase “C of O” refers to “Certificate of Occupancy,” a document granted
by the Department of Buildings that certifies that a building is in livable condition and
specifies how it may be inhabited (e.g., how many separate units may exist).
4. Negative attitudes toward nonnative accents in English were sometimes voiced by
interpreters, despite the fact that most of them had learned English as a second language
themselves. In particular, one Polish interpreter reacted with indignation when she was
involved in hearings with two Polish litigants, one of whom was speaking English. In
such circumstances, she thus had to translate nonnative, Polish-accented English into
Polish for the benefit of the other party. In one incident that I was unable to record, the
interpreter protested to the arbitrator that she didn’t understand the litigant’s English
utterances, and the arbitrator (who had shown no sign of being unable to understand) in-
structed the litigant to speak Polish instead. On another occasion, she complained to me
after the proceedings that the English spoken by a Polish litigant had been incoherent.
5. This number also excludes observed proceedings of inquests or judge-led trials,
as well as arbitration hearings that ended in a postponement. In addition, I was not able
to find out the legal outcomes of all observed cases. As noted before, arbitrators did not
announce their decisions at the hearing but had them sent to the litigants in the mail
instead. In many cases, I was able to obtain information on judgments from the court
records, but this was not always possible.
6. A case was counted as won by the defendant if the arbitrator dismissed the claim.
Counterclaims were categorized with the original claimant.
7. In this analysis of legal outcomes, the focus is on claimants alone, irrespective of
the language choice of the defendant, because the structure of arbitration hearings gives
precedence and priority to the claimant (see Chapter 3). If the claimant fails to convince
the arbitrator that the burden of proof is met, it matters less what the defendant says
(or in what language). Whether the defendant presents a coherent counter-narrative, or
whether the arbitrator concludes that “they were both lying” (as one “fast” arbitrator
said to me after a hearing), the legal outcome is the same: judgment in favor of the de-
fendant.
8. In fact, among the 92 observed arbitration hearings that came to a decision,
claimants won 64% of those heard by “slow” arbitrators (41/64) but only 39% of those
heard by “fast” arbitrators (11/28).
9. The total number of judgments made during the sample month appears rather
low compared to the typical daily caseload. While it excludes cases that were discontin-
ued or dismissed without prejudice, the majority of the cases on the docket were post-
poned until a later date. In addition, the court records also include some information
about interpreter use, though apparently only for cases in which it was scheduled prior
to the court date, not cases in which the decision was made once the parties were in
court. In the relevant time period, 19 cases were marked as involving an interpreter, of
which 10 were decided in favor of the claimant (53%). The court records did not indicate
224 Notes to Pages 201–201
which party spoke a LOTE, but it is likely that they reflect primarily requests that were
made by claimants. I observed three of these 19 cases, all of which involved a LOTE-
speaking claimant. I also observed another hearing with a LOTE-speaking defendant,
but this was not listed in the records as involving a court interpreter.
10. Similarly, the impact of attorneys appears to be mediated by arbitration style
as well. While Sarat (1976:367) found that pro se claimants were less likely to succeed if
the defendant was represented by an attorney, I found this to be true only with “fast”
arbitrators. In Brooklyn, the two “fast” arbitrators decided in favor of a pro se claimant
in only one of six such cases, while “slow” arbitrators did so in five out of seven cases.
While excerpts (1) to (4) in this chapter show a “fast” arbitrator having a good rapport
with an attorney, other arbitrators often experienced conflicts with attorneys, especially
when attorneys wanted to take over questioning and expected arbitrators to act like a
judge in an adversarial trial rather than like a judge in an inquisitorial system (see ex-
cerpt (3) in Chapter 3). Consequently, some arbitrators may in fact be inclined to give pro
se litigants more leeway in order to counteract any disadvantages they might experience
in facing a legal professional (see, e.g., excerpts (1) and (3) in Chapter 1).
225
REFERENCES
Abel, Richard L. 1982a. The politics of informal justice. New York: Academic Press.
Abel, Richard L. 1982b. The contradictions of informal justice. In Richard L. Abel (ed.),
The politics of informal justice, Vol. 1: The American experience, 267–320. New York:
Academic Press.
Alexieva, Bistra. 1997. A typology of interpreter-mediated events. The Translator 3.
153–174.
Anderson, Laurie. 2012. Code-switching and coordination in interpreter-mediated in-
teraction. In Claudio Baraldi & Laura Gavioli (eds.), Coordinating participation in
dialogue interpreting, 115–148. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Anderson, R. Bruce W. 1976. Perspectives on the role of the interpreter. In Richard W. Bris-
lin (ed.), Translation: Applications and research, 208–228. New York: Gardner Press.
Andrews, David R. 1998. Sociocultural perspectives on language change in diaspora:
Soviet immigrants in the United States. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Angelelli, Claudia. 2001. Deconstructing the invisible interpreter: A study of the interper-
sonal role of the interpreter in a cross-linguistic/cultural communicative event. Ph.D.
dissertation. Stanford University.
Angelelli, Claudia V. 2004. Medical interpreting and cross-cultural communication. Cam-
bridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Angermeyer, Philipp Sebastian. to appear. Promoting litigant consent to arbitration in
multilingual small claims court. In Susan Ehrlich, Diana Eades & Janet Ainsworth
(eds.), Coercion and consent in the legal process: Linguistic and discursive perspec-
tives. New York: Oxford University Press.
Angermeyer, Philipp Sebastian. 2002. Lexical cohesion in multilingual conversation.
International Journal of Bilingualism 6(4). 361–393.
Angermeyer, Philipp Sebastian. 2005a. Who is “you”? Polite forms of address and am-
biguous participant roles in court interpreting. Target: International Journal of
Translation Studies 17(2). 203–226.
Angermeyer, Philipp Sebastian. 2005b. Spelling bilingualism: Script choice in Russian
American classified ads and signage. Language in Society 34(4). 493–531.
Angermeyer, Philipp Sebastian. 2008. Creating monolingualism in the multilingual
courtroom. Sociolinguistic Studies 2(3). 385–403.
Angermeyer, Philipp Sebastian. 2009. Translation style and participant roles in court
interpreting. Journal of Sociolinguistics 13(1). 3–28.
Angermeyer, Philipp Sebastian. 2010. Interpreter-mediated interaction as bilingual
speech: Bridging macro-and microsociolinguistics in codeswitching research. In-
ternational Journal of Bilingualism 14(4). 466–489.
Angermeyer, Philipp Sebastian. 2013. Multilingual speakers and language choice in the
legal sphere. Applied Linguistics Review 4(1). 105–126.
References
226
Angermeyer, Philipp Sebastian. 2014. Monolingual ideologies and multilingual prac-
tices in small claims court: The case of Spanish-speaking arbitrators. International
Journal of Multilingualism 11(4). 430–448.
Aronsson, K., L. Jönsson & P. Linell. 1987. The courtroom hearing as a middle ground:
Speech accommodation by lawyers and defendants. Journal of Language and Social
Psychology 6. 99–115.
Atkinson, J. Maxwell. 1992. Displaying neutrality: Formal aspects of informal court
proceedings. In Paul Drew & John Heritage (eds.), Talk at work: Interaction in insti-
tutional settings, 199–211. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Atkinson, J. Maxwell & Paul Drew. 1979. Order in court: The organization of verbal inter-
action in judicial settings. London: Macmillan.
Auer, Peter. 1984. Bilingual conversation. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Auer, Peter. 1988. A conversation analytic approach to code-switching and transfer. In
Monica Heller (ed.), Codeswitching: Anthropological and sociolinguistic perspectives,
187–215. Berlin & New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Auer, Peter. 1995. The pragmatics of code-switching: A sequential approach. In Lesley
Milroy & Pieter Muysken (eds.), One speaker, two languages: Cross-disciplinary per-
spectives on code-switching, 115–135. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Auer, Peter. 1998a. Code-switching in conversation: Language, interaction and identity.
London & New York: Routledge.
Auer, Peter. 1998b. Introduction: Bilingual conversation revisited. In Peter Auer (ed.),
Code-switching in conversation: Language, interaction and identity, 1–24. London &
New York: Routledge.
Auer, Peter. 1999. From codeswitching via language mixing to fused lects: Toward a
dynamic typology of bilingual speech. International Journal of Bilingualism 3.
309–332.
Auer, Peter. 2007. The monolingual bias in bilingualism research, or: Why bilingual talk
is (still) a challenge for linguistics. In Monica Heller (ed.), Bilingualism: A social ap-
proach, 319–339. New York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Backus, Ad. 1992. Patterns of language mixing: A study in Turkish-Dutch bilingualism.
Wiesbaden: O. Harrassowitz.
Backus, Ad. 1996. Two in one: Bilingual speech of Turkish immigrants in the Netherlands.
Tilburg: Tilburg University Press.
Bakhtin, Michail M. 1981. Discourse in the novel. In Michael Holmquist (ed.), The dia-
logic imagination. Four essays by M. M. Bakhtin, 259–422. Austin: University of
Texas Press.
Baraldi, Claudio & Laura Gavioli (eds.). 2012. Code-switching and coordination in
interpreter-mediated interaction. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Barrett, Rusty. 2006. Language ideology and racial inequality: Competing functions
of Spanish in an Anglo-owned Mexican restaurant. Language in Society 35(2).
163–204.
Beach, Wayne A. 1993. Transitional regularities for “casual” “Okay” usages. Journal of
Pragmatics 19(4). 325–352.
Bergeron, Gilles. 2002. L’interprétation en milieu judiciaire. Meta 47. 225–232.
Berk-Seligson, Susan. 1990. The bilingual courtroom: Court interpreters in the judicial
process. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
227
References
Berk-Seligson, Susan. 2000. Interpreting for the police: Issues in pre-trial phases of the
judicial process. Forensic Linguistics 7(2). 212–237.
Berk-Seligson, Susan. 2009. Coerced confessions: The discourse of bilingual police inter-
rogations. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Berk-Seligson, Susan. 2012. Linguistic issues in courtroom interpretation. In Lawrence
M. Solan & Peter M. Tiersma (eds.), The Oxford handbook of language and law.
Oxford & New York: Oxford University Press.
Blom, Jan Petter & John J. Gumperz. 1972. Social meaning in linguistic structure: Code-
switching in Norway. In John J. Gumperz & Dell Hymes (eds.), Directions in socio-
linguistics: The ethnography of communication, 407–434. New York: Holt, Rinehart
& Winston.
Blommaert, Jan. 2001. Investigating narrative inequality: African asylum seekers’ sto-
ries in Belgium. Discourse & Society 12(4). 413–449.
Blommaert, Jan. 2003. Commentary: A sociolinguistics of globalization. Journal of So-
ciolinguistics 7(4). 607–623.
Blommaert, Jan. 2009. Language, asylum, and the national order. Current Anthropology
50(4). 415–441.
Bolden, Galina. 2000. Toward understanding practices of medical interpreting: inter-
preters’ involvement in history taking. Discourse Studies 2(4). 387–419.
Bolden, Galina. 2012. Across languages and cultures: Brokering problems of under-
standing in conversational repair. Language in Society 41(1). 97–121.
Bot, Hanneke. 2005. Dialogue interpreting as a specific case of reported speech. Inter-
preting 7(2). 237–261.
Bourdieu, Pierre. 1991. Language and symbolic power. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Uni-
versity Press.
Brown-Blake, Celia & Paul Chambers. 2007. The Jamaican Creole speaker in the UK
criminal justice system. The International Journal of Speech, Language and the Law
14(2). 269–294.
Bublitz, Wolfram. 1996. I’ve bought a freezer - you’ve bought a freezer - they’ve bought
a freezer: Repetition as a text-building device. In Carla Bazzanella (ed.), Repetition
in dialogue, 16–28. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Callahan, Laura. 2005. “Talking both languages”: 20 perspectives on the use of Spanish
and English inside and outside the workplace. Journal of Multilingual and Multicul-
tural Development 26(4). 275–295.
Cappella, Joseph. 1997. The development of theory about automated patterns of face-to-
face human interaction. In Gerry Philipsen & Terrance L. Albrecht (eds.), Develop-
ing communication theories, 57–83. Albany: State University of New York Press.
Cashman, Holly R. 2005. Identities at play: language preference and group membership
in bilingual talk in interaction. Journal of Pragmatics 37(3). 301–315.
Cheung, Andrew K. F. 2012. The use of reported speech by court interpreters in Hong
Kong. Interpreting: International Journal of Research & Practice in Interpreting
14(1). 73–91.
Christensen, Tina Paulsen. 2008. Judges’ deviations from norm-based direct speech in
court. Interpreting 10(1). 99–127.
Clark, Herbert H. 1992. Arenas of language use. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago
Press.
References
228
Clayman, Steven E. 2001. Answers and evasions. Language in Society 30(3). 403–442.
Clyne, Michael. 1967. Transference and triggering: Observations on the language assimila-
tion of postwar German-speaking migrants in Australia. The Hague: Nijhoff.
Colin, Joan & Ruth Morris. 1996. Interpreters and the legal process. Winchester, MA:
Waterside Press.
Conley, John M. & William M. O’Barr. 1990. Rules versus relationships: The ethnography
of legal discourse. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.
Conley, John M. & William M. O’Barr. 1998. Just words: Law, language, and power. Chi-
cago, IL: University of Chicago Press.
Conley, John M. & William M. O’Barr. 2005. Just words: Law, language, and power, 2nd
edn. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.
Cooke, Michael. 1996. A different story: narrative versus “question and answer” in Ab-
original evidence. Forensic Linguistics 3(2). 273–288.
Cotterill, Janet. 2004. Collocation, connotation, and courtroom semantics: Lawyers’
control of witness testimony through lexical negotiation. Applied Linguistics 25(4).
513–537.
Coulmas, Florian. 1987. Why speak English? In K. Knapp, W. Enninger & A. Knapp-
Potthoff (eds.), Analyzing intercultural communication, 93–107. Berlin, New York, &
Amsterdam: Mouton de Gruyter.
Coupland, Nikolas. 2001. Language, situation, and the relational self: Theorizing dialect-
style in sociolinguistics. In Penelope Eckert & John R. Rickford (eds.), Style and
sociolinguistic variation, 185–210. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Cummins, Jim. 1979. Cognitive/academic language proficiency, linguistic interdepen-
dence, the optimal age question, and some other matters. Working Papers on Bilin-
gualism 19. 197–205.
Cummins, Jim. 1984. Wanted: A theoretical framework for relating language proficiency
to academic achievement among bilingual students. In Charlene Rivera (ed.), Lan-
guage proficiency and academic achievement, 2–19. Clevedon, UK: Multilingual
Matters.
D’hondt, Sigurd. 2004. Interculturele communicatie in rechtbanken. Brussels: Politeia.
D’hondt, Sigurd. 2009. Others on trial: The construction of cultural otherness in Belgian
first instance criminal hearings. Journal of Pragmatics 41(4). 806–828.
Dabène, Louise & Danièle Moore. 1995. Bilingual speech of migrant people. In Lesley
Milroy & Pieter Muysken (eds.), One speaker, two languages: Cross-disciplinary per-
spectives on code-switching, 17–44. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Danet, Brenda. 1980. “Baby” or “fetus”? Language and the construction of reality in a
manslaughter trial. Semiotica 32. 187–219.
Danet, Brenda, Kenneth Hoffman, Nicole Kermish, H. Jeffrey Rafn & Deborah Stay-
man. 1980. An ethnography of questioning in the courtroom. In Roger Shuy
& Anna Shnukal (eds.), Language use and the uses of language, NWAVE 5 1976,
222–234. Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press.
Davidson, Brad. 2000. The interpreter as institutional gatekeeper: The social-linguistic
role of interpreters in Spanish-English medical discourse. Journal of Sociolinguis-
tics 4). 379–405.
Davidson, Brad. 2002. A model of the construction of conversational common ground
in interpreted discourse. Journal of Pragmatics 34. 1273–1300.
229
References
Drew, Paul. 1992. Contested evidence in courtroom cross-examination: The case of a
trial for rape. In Paul Drew & John Heritage (eds.), Talk at work: Interaction in insti-
tutional settings, 470–520. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Eades, Diana. 2003. Participation of second language and second dialect speakers in the
legal system. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics 23. 113–133.
Eades, Diana. 2006. Lexical struggle in court: Aboriginal Australians versus the state.
Journal of Sociolinguistics 10(2). 153–180.
Eades, Diana. 2008. Courtroom talk and neocolonial control. Berlin & New York: Mouton
de Gruyter.
Eades, Diana & Jacques Arends. 2004. Using language analysis in the determination of
national origin of asylum seekers: An introduction. International Journal of Speech,
Language and the Law 11. 179–199.
Edwards, Alicia Betsy. 1995. The practice of court interpreting. Amsterdam & Philadel-
phia: Benjamins.
Ehrlich, Susan. 2001. Representing rape: Language and sexual consent. London & New
York: Routledge.
Ehrlich, Susan & Jack Sidnell. 2006. “I think that’s not an assumption you ought to
make”: Challenging presuppositions in inquiry testimony. Language in Society
35(5). 655–676.
Elias-Bursać, Ellen. 2012. Shaping international justice: The role of translation and
interpreting at the ICTY in The Hague. Translation and Interpreting Studies 7(1).
34–53.
Fader, Ayala. 2007. Reclaiming sacred sparks: Linguistic syncretism and gendered lan-
guage shift among Hasidic Jews in New York. Journal of Linguistic Anthropology
17(1). 1–22.
Felstiner, William L.F., Richard L. Abel & Austin Sarat. 1980. The emergence and trans-
formation of disputes: Naming, blaming, claiming. Law & Society Review 15(3/4).
631–654.
Ferguson, Charles A. 1959. Diglossia. Word XV. 325–340.
Fishman, Joshua A., Robert C. Cooper & Roxana Ma. 1971. Bilingualism in the barrio.
Bloomington: Indiana University Press.
Friedland, Deborah & Claire Penn. 2003. Conversation analysis as a technique for ex-
ploring the dynamics of a mediated interview. International Journal of Language
and Communication Disorders 38. 95–111.
Fuller, Janet M. 2007. Language choice as a means of shaping identity. Journal of Lin-
guistic Anthropology 17(1). 105–129.
Gal, Susan. 1979. Language shift: Social determinants of linguistic change in bilingual
Austria. New York: Academic Press.
Garcia, Angela. 1991. Dispute resolution without disputing: How the interactional orga-
nization of mediation hearings minimizes argument. American Sociological Review
56(6). 818–835.
García, Ofelia. 2009. Bilingual education in the 21st century: A global perspective (with con-
tributions by Hugo Baetens Beardsmore). Malden, MA & Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell.
García, Ofelia, Isabel Evangelista, Mabel Martínez, Carmen Disla & Paulino Bonifacio.
1988. Spanish language use and attitudes: A study of two New York City communi-
ties. Language in Society 17. 475–511.
References
230
García, Ofelia & Joshua A. Fishman. 1997. The multilingual Apple: Languages in New
York City. Berlin & New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Gardner, Rod. 2001. When listeners talk: Response tokens and listener stance. Amster-
dam & Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Gardner-Chloros, Penelope. 2009. Code-switching. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
Gibbons, John. 2003. Forensic linguistics: An introduction to language in the justice
system. Oxford: Blackwell.
Giles, Howard, Justine Coupland & Nikolas Coupland (eds.). 1991. Contexts of accom-
modation: Developments in applied sociolinguistics (Studies in Emotion and Social
Interaction). Cambridge, UK; New York; Paris: Cambridge University Press (Edi-
tions de la Maison des science de l’homme).
Giles, Howard, Nikolas Coupland & Justine Coupland. 1991. Accommodation theory:
Communication, context, and consequence. In Howard Giles, Justine Coupland
& Nikolas Coupland (eds.), Contexts of accommodation: Developments in applied
sociolinguistics, 1–68 Cambridge & Paris: Maison des Sciences de l’Homme & Cam-
bridge University Press.
Giles, Howard & Philip M. Smith. 1979. Accommodation theory: Optimal levels of con-
vergence. In Howard Giles & Robert N. St. Clair (eds.), Language and social psy-
chology, 45–65. Baltimore, MD: University Park Press.
Goffman, Erving. 1959. The presentation of self in everyday life. Garden City, NY:
Doubleday.
Goffman, Erving. 1974. Frame analysis: An essay on the organization of experience. New
York: Harper.
Goffman, Erving. 1981. Forms of talk. Oxford & Philadelphia: University of Pennsylva-
nia Press.
Goffman, Erving. 1983. Felicity’s condition. American Journal of Sociology 89(1). 1–53.
Gómez Díez, Isabel. 2010. The role of the interpreter in constructing asylum seeker’s
credibility. Sociolinguistic Studies 4(2). 333–370.
Gregor, Esma. 2003. Russian-English code-switching in New York City. Frankfurt am
Main: Peter Lang.
Grosjean, François. 2001. The bilingual’s language modes. In Janet Nicol (ed.), One mind
two languages, 1–22. Oxford: Blackwell.
Gumperz, John J. 1982a. Fact and inference in courtroom testimony. In John J. Gumperz
(ed.), Language and social identity, 163–195. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University
Press.
Gumperz, John J. 1982b. Discourse strategies. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University
Press.
Gumperz, John J. 2001. Contextualization and ideology in intercultural communica-
tion. In Aldo Di Luzio, Susanne Günthner & Franca Orletti (eds.), Culture in com-
munication: Analyses of intercultural situations, 35–53. Amsterdam & Philadelphia:
John Benjamins.
Gumperz, John J. & Jenny Cook-Gumperz. 1982. Introduction: Language and the com-
munication of social identity. In John J. Gumperz (ed.), Language and social iden-
tity, 1–21. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
231
References
Hale, Sandra. 2002. How faithfully do court interpreters render the style of non-English-
speaking witnesses’ testimonies? A data-based study of Spanish-English bilingual
proceedings. Discourse Studies 4. 25–47.
Hale, Sandra. 2004. The discourse of court interpreting: Discourse practices of the law, the
witness and the interpreter. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Hale, Sandra & John Gibbons. 1999. Varying realities: Patterned changes in the inter-
preter’s representation of courtroom and external realities. Applied Linguistics 20.
203–220.
Halliday, M. A. K. & Ruqaiya Hasan. 1976. Cohesion in English. London: Longman.
Harrington, Christine B. 1982. Delegalization reform movements: A historical analysis.
In Richard L. Abel (ed.), The politics of informal justice, Vol. 1: The American expe-
rience, 35–71. New York:Academic Press.
Harris, Brian. 1990. Norms in interpretation. Target 2. 115–119.
Harris, Sandra. 2001. Fragmented narratives and multiple tellers: Witness and defen-
dant accounts in trials. Discourse Studies 3. 53–74.
Hatim, Basil & Ian Mason. 1997. The translator as communicator. London: Routledge.
Haugen, Einar. 1950. The analysis of linguistic borrowing. Language 26. 210–231.
Haviland, John B. 2003. Ideologies of language: Reflections on language and U.S. law.
American Anthropologist 105. 764–774.
Heath, Jeffrey. 1989. From code-switching to borrowing: Foreign and diglossic mixing in
Moroccan Arabic. London & New York: Kegan Paul International.
Heller, Monica. 1982. Negotiations of language choice in Montreal. In John J. Gumperz
(ed.), Language and social identity, 108–118. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University
Press.
Heller, Monica. 1995. Code-switching and the politics of language. In Lesley Milroy &
Pieter Muysken (eds.), One speaker, two languages: Cross-disciplinary perspectives
on code-switching, 158–174. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Heller, Monica. 2003. Globalization, the new economy, and the commodification of lan-
guage and identity. Journal of Sociolinguistics 7(4). 473–492.
Heritage, John & Steven Clayman. 2010. Talk in action: Interactions, identities and insti-
tutions. Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell.
Heritage, John & Geoffrey Raymond. 2005. The terms of agreement: Indexing epistemic
authority and subordination in talk-in-interaction. Social Psychology Quarterly
68(1). 15–38.
Heritage, John & Rod Watson. 1979. Formulations as conversational objects. In George
Psathas (ed.), Everyday language studies in ethnomethodology, 123–162. New York:
Irvington.
Hoffmann, Ludger. 1983. Kommunikation vor Gericht. Tübingen: Narr.
Hout, Roeland van & Pieter Muysken. 1994. Modeling lexical borrowability. Language
Variation and Change 6. 39–62.
Hymes, Dell. 1996. Ethnography, linguistics, narrative inequality: Toward an understand-
ing of voice. London: Taylor and Francis.
Inghilleri, Moira. 2003. Habitus, field and discourse: Interpreting as a socially situated
activity. Target 15. 243–268.
Inghilleri, Moira. 2012. Interpreting justice: Ethics, politics, and language. New York:
Routledge.
References
232
Jacobsen, Bente. 2012. The significance of interpreting modes for question–answer dia-
logues in court interpreting. Interpreting: International Journal of Research & Prac-
tice in Interpreting 14(2). 217–241.
Jacquemet, Marco. 1996. Credibility in court: Communicative practices in the Camorra
trials. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Jacquemet, Marco. 2005a. The registration interview: Restricting refugees’ narrative
performances. In Anna De Fina & Mike Baynham (eds.), Dislocations/relocations:
Narratives of displacement, 194–216. Manchester, UK: St. Jerome Publishing.
Jacquemet, Marco. 2005b. Transidiomatic practices: Language in the age of globaliza-
tion. Language & Communication 25. 257–277.
Jacquemet, Marco. 2011. Crosstalk 2.0: Asylum and communicative breakdowns. Text
& Talk 31(4). 475–497.
Johnstone, Barbara. 1987. Perspectives on repetition. Text 7. 205–214.
Jongh, Elena M. De. 1992. An introduction to court interpreting: Theory and practice.
Lanham, MD: University Press of America.
Jönsson, Linda. 1990. Om återkoppling i tolkade samtal. In Ulrica Nettelbladt & Gisela
Håkansson (eds.), Samtal och språkundervisning, 71–86. Studier till Lennart Gus-
tavssons minne: Linköping: Universitetet i Linköping.
Kadric, Mira. 2001. Dolmetschen bei Gericht: Erwartungen, Anforderungen, Kompeten-
zen. Vienna: WUV, Universitätsverlag.
Kaur, Jagdish. 2010. Achieving mutual understanding in world Englishes. World Eng-
lishes 29(2). 192–208.
Keller, Rudi. 1994. On language change: The invisible hand in language. London:
Routledge.
Knapp, Karlfried & Annelie Knapp-Potthoff. 1985. Sprachmittlertätigkeit in der inter-
kulturellen Kommunikation. In Jochen Rehbein (ed.), Interkulturelle Kommunika-
tion, 450–463. Tübingen: Günter Narr.
Knapp-Potthoff, Annelie & Karlfried Knapp. 1987. The man (or woman) in the middle:
Discoursal aspects of non-professional interpreting. In K. Knapp, W. Enninger &
A. Knapp-Potthoff (eds.), Analyzing intercultural communication, 181–211. Berlin,
New York, & Amsterdam: Mouton de Gruyter.
Komter, Martha. 2013. Conversation analysis in the courtroom. In Jack Sidnell &
Tanya Stivers (eds.), The handbook of conversation analysis, 612–629. Malden, MA:
Blackwell.
Labov, William. 1972. The transformation of experience in narrative syntax. Chapter 9
in William Labov (ed.), Language in the inner city, 354–396. Philadelphia: Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania Press.
Labov, William & Joshua Waletzky. 1967. Narrative analysis: Oral versions and personal
experience. In June Helm (ed.), Essays on the verbal and visual arts, 12–44. Seattle:
University of Washington Press.
Laguerre, Michel S. 1984. American odyssey: Haitians in New York City. Ithaca, NY:
Cornell University Press.
Lang, Ranier. 1976. Interpreters in local courts in Papua New Guinea. In W. M. O’Barr
& J. F. O’Barr (eds.), Language and politics, 327–365. The Hague & Paris: Mouton.
Lee, Jieun. 2009. Interpreting inexplicit language during courtroom examination. Ap-
plied Linguistics 30(1). 93–114.
233
References
Lee, Jieun. 2010. Interpreting reported speech in witnesses’ evidence. Interpreting 12.
60–82.
Lee, Jieun. 2011. Translatability of speech style in court interpreting. International Jour-
nal of Speech, Language and the Law 18(1). 1–33.
Lerner, Gene H. 1996. Finding “face” in the preference structures of talk-in-interaction.
Social Psychology Quarterly 59. 303–321.
Lev-Ari, Shiri & Boaz Keysar. 2010. Why don’t we believe non-native speakers? The
influence of accent on credibility. Journal of Experimental Social Psychology 46(6).
1093–1096.
Li Wei. 1994. Three generations, two languages, one family: Language choice and language
shift in a Chinese community in Britain. Clevedon, UK & Philadelphia: Multilingual
Matters.
Li Wei. 1998. The “why” and “how” questions in the analysis of conversational code-
switching. In Peter Auer (ed.), Code-switching in conversation: Language, interaction
and identity, 156–176. London & New York: Routledge.
Li Wei. 2002. What do you want me to say? On the conversation analysis approach to
bilingual interaction. Language in Society 31(2). 159–180.
Li Wei. 2005. “How can you tell?”: Towards a common sense explanation of conversa-
tional code-switching. Journal of Pragmatics 37(3). 375–389.
Licoppe, Christian & Maud Vernier. 2013. Interpreting, video communication
and the sequential reshaping of institutional talk in the bilingual and distrib-
uted courtroom. International Journal of Speech, Language and the Law 20(2).
247–275.
Liedke, Martina. 1997. Institution und Interkulturalität. In Annelie Knapp-Potthoff &
Martina Liedke (eds.), Aspekte interkultureller Kommunikationsfähigkeit, 155–179.
München: Iudicium.
Linell, Per. 1991. Accommodation on trial: Processes of communicative accommoda-
tion in courtroom interaction. In Howard Giles, Justine Coupland & Nikolas Cou-
pland (eds.), Contexts of accommodation: Developments in applied sociolinguistics,
103–130. Cambridge, UK, & Paris: Maison des Sciences de l’Homme & Cambridge
University Press.
Lippi-Green, Rosina. 1994. Accent, standard language ideology and discriminatory pre-
text in the courts. Language in Society 18. 213–234.
Lippi-Green, Rosina. 1997. English with an accent: Language, ideology, and discrimina-
tion in the United States. London: Routledge.
Long, Michael H. 1983. Native speaker/non-native speaker conversation and the nego-
tiation of comprehensible input. Applied Linguistics 4(2). 126–141.
Lüdi, Georges. 1987. Les marques transcodiques: Regards nouveaux sur le bilinguisme.
In Georges Lüdi (ed.), Devenir bilingue—parler bilingue, 1–21. Tübingen: Max Nie-
meyer Verlag.
Maryns, Katrijn. 2006. The asylum speaker: Language in the Belgian asylum procedure.
(Encounters). Manchester, UK & Northampton, MA: St. Jerome Publishing.
Maryns, Katrijn. 2012. Multilingualism in legal settings. In Marilyn Martin-Jones,
Adrian Blackledge & Angela Creese (eds.), Routledge handbook of multilingualism,
297–313. London: Routledge.
References
234
Maryns, Katrijn. 2013. Disclosure and (re)performance of gender-based evidence
in an interpreter-mediated asylum interview. Journal of Sociolinguistics 17(5).
661–686.
Mason, Ian. 1999. Introduction. The Translator 5. 147–160.
Matoesian, Gregory M. 1993. Reproducing rape: Domination through talk in the court-
room. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.
Matoesian, Gregory M. 2001. Law and the language of identity: Discourse in the William
Kennedy Smith rape trial. Oxford University Press.
Matsuda, M. J. 1991. Voice of America: Accent, antidiscrimination law, and a jurispru-
dence for the last reconstruction. Yale Law Journal 100. 1329–1407.
McEwen, Craig A. & Richard J. Maiman. 1984. Mediation in small claims court: Achiev-
ing compliance through consent. Law & Society Review 18. 11–50.
Mellinkoff, David. 1963. The language of the law. Boston, MA: Little, Brown.
Méndez, Miguel A. 1997. Lawyers, linguists, story-tellers, and limited-English-speaking
witnesses. New Mexico Law Review 27. 77–99.
Merry, Sally Engle. 1990. Getting justice and getting even: Legal consciousness among
working-class Americans. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.
Meyer, Bernd. 2004. Dolmetschen im medizinischen Aufklärungsgespräch: Eine diskurs-
analytische Untersuchung zur Wissensvermittlung im mehrsprachigen Krankenhaus.
Münster: Waxmann.
Meyer, Bernd. 2012. Ad hoc interpreting for partially language-proficient patients: Par-
ticipation in multilingual constellations. In Claudio Baraldi & Laura Gavioli (eds.),
Coordinating participation in dialogue interpreting, 115–148. Amsterdam & Philadel-
phia: John Benjamins.
Meyer, Bernd & Ludger Zeevaert. 2002. Sprachwechselphänomene in gedolmetschten
und semikommunikativen Diskursen. (Arbeiten Zur Mehrsprachigkeit - Folge B,
Sonderforschungsbereich 538). Universität Hamburg.
Mikkelson, Holly. 1998. Towards a redefinition of the role of the court interpreter. Inter-
preting 3(1). 21–45.
Mikkelson, Holly. 2000a. Introduction to court interpreting. Manchester, UK: St. Jerome
Publishing.
Mikkelson, Holly. 2000b. Interpreter ethics: A review of the traditional and electronic
literature. Interpreting 5(1). 49–56.
Milroy, James. 2001. Language ideologies and the consequences of standardization.
Journal of Sociolinguistics 5. 530–555.
Milroy, Lesley & Pieter Muysken. 1995. One speaker, two languages: Cross-disciplinary
perspectives on code-switching. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Moeketsi, Rosemary. 1999. Discourse in a multilingual and multicultural courtroom: A
court interpreter’s guide. Hatfield, Pretoria: J. L. van Schaik.
Morris, Ruth. 1995. The moral dilemmas of court interpreting. The Translator 1.
25–46.
Morris, Ruth. 2008. Taking liberties? Duplicity or the dynamics of court interpreting. In
Debra Russell & Sandra Hale (eds.), Interpreting in legal settings, 1–25. Washington,
DC: Gallaudet University Press.
Müller, Frank Ernst. 1989. Translation in bilingual conversation: Pragmatic aspects of
translatory interaction. Journal of Pragmatics 13. 713–739.
235
References
Muysken, Pieter. 1997. Code-switching processes: Alternation, insertion, congruent
lexicalization. In Martin Pütz (ed.), Language choices: conditions, constraints, and
consequences, 361–380. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Muysken, Pieter. 2000. Bilingual speech: A typology of code-mixing. Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press.
Myers-Scotton, Carol. 1993a. Duelling languages: Grammatical structure in codeswitch-
ing. Oxford & New York: Clarendon Press.
Myers-Scotton, Carol. 1993b. Social motivations for codeswitching: Evidence from Africa.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Nader, Laura & Harry F. Jr. Todd (eds.). 1978. The disputing process: Law in ten societies.
New York: Columbia University Press.
New York State Unified Court System.2006. Court interpreting in New York: A plan of
action. https://www.nycourts.gov/courtinterpreter/pdfs/action_plan_040506.pdf (9
December, 2013)
New York State Unified Court System.2008. UCS court interpreter manual and code of
ethics. http://www.nycourts.gov/courtinterpreter/pdfs/CourtInterpreterManual.
pdf (9 December, 2013).
New York State Unified Court System.2011. Court interpreting in New York. A plan of
action: Moving forward. http://www.nycourts.gov/publications/pdfs/ActionPlan-
CourtInterpretingUpdate-2011.pdf (9 December, 2013).
Ng, Kwai Hang. 2009a. The common law in two voices: Language, law, and the postcolo-
nial dilemma in Hong Kong. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Ng, Kwai Hang. 2009b. Beyond court interpreters: Exploring the idea of designated
Spanish-speaking courtrooms to address language barriers to justice in the United
States. In Rebecca L. Sandefur (ed.), Access to justice, 97–118. Bingley, UK: Emer-
ald Group.
Nida, Eugene. 2004. Principles of correspondence. In Lawrence Vernuti (ed.), The trans-
lation studies reader, 2nd edn., 153–167. (First Published in Nida, Eugene. 1964.
Toward a science of translating, 156–171. Leiden: E. J. Brill). New York & London:
Routledge.
Norrick, Neal R. 1987. Functions of repetition in conversation. Text 7. 245–264.
Nortier, Jacomine. 2008. Types and sources of bilingual data. In Li Wei & Melissa G.
Moyer (eds.), The Blackwell guide to research methods in bilingualism and multilin-
gualism, 35–52. Oxford: Blackwell.
O’Barr, William M. 1982. Linguistic evidence: Language, power, and strategy in the court-
room. New York: Academic Press.
Obler, Loraine. 2012. Conference interpreting as extreme language use. International
Journal of Bilingualism 16(2). 177–182.
Ochs, Elinor. 1992. Indexing gender. In A. Duranti & C. Goodwin (eds.), Rethinking
context, 335–358. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Ochs, Elinor & Bambi B. Schieffelin. 1984. Language acquisition and socialization:
Three developmental stories and their implications. In Richard A. Shweder &
Robert A. LeVine (eds.), Culture theory: Essays on mind, self, and emotion, 73–97.
Cambridge, UK: University of Cambridge Press.
Otheguy, Ricardo & Ana Celia Zentella. 2012. Spanish in New York: Language contact,
dialectal leveling, and structural continuity. New York: Oxford University Press.
References
236
Pavlenko, Aneta. 2008. “I’m very not about the law part”: Nonnative speakers of English
and the Miranda warnings. TESOL Quarterly 42. 1–30.
Philips, Susan U. 1998. Ideology in the language of judges: How judges practice law, poli-
tics, and courtroom control. New York & Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Pöchhacker, Franz. 2004. Introducing interpreting studies. London: Routledge.
Poplack, Shana. 1980. Sometimes I’ll start a sentence in Spanish y termino en español:
Toward a typology of code-switching. Linguistics 18. 581–618.
Poplack, Shana, David Sankoff & Christopher Miller. 1988. The social correlates and
linguistic processes of lexical borrowing and assimilation. Linguistics 26. 47–104.
Pousada, Alicia. 1979. Interpreting for language minorities in the courts. In James Alatis
& G. Richard Tucker (eds.), Language in public life, 186–208. Washington, DC:
Georgetown University Press.
Pym, Anthony. 1999. “Nicole slapped Michelle”: Interpreters and theories of interpret-
ing at the O. J. Simpson trial. The Translator 5(2). 265–283.
Raymond, Geoffrey. 2003. Grammar and social organization: Yes/no interrogatives and
the structure of responding. American Sociological Review 68(6). 939–967.
Reddy, Michael J. 1979. The conduit metaphor: A case of frame conflict in our language
about language. In Andrew Ortony (ed.), Metaphor and thought, 284–324. Cam-
bridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Reithofer, Karin. 2013. Comparing modes of communication: The effect of English as a
lingua franca vs. interpreting. Interpreting 15(1). 48–73.
Reynolds, Jennifer F. & Marjorie Faulstich Orellana. 2009. New immigrant youth inter-
preting in white public space. American Anthropologist 111(2). 211–223.
Richland, Justin B. 2008. Arguing with tradition: The language of law in Hopi tribal court.
Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.
Rigney, Azucena C. 1999. Questioning in interpreted testimony. Forensic Linguistics 6.
83–108.
Roberts, Simon. 1979. Order and dispute: An introduction to legal anthropology. New
York: St. Martin’s Press.
Robinson, John, Helen Lawrence & Sali Tagliamonte. 2001. Goldvarb 2001: A multivari-
ate analysis application for Windows. York: University of York.
Roy, Cynthia. 2000. Interpreting as a discourse process. New York: Oxford University
Press.
Ruhnka, John C. & Steven Weller. 1978. Small claims courts: A national examination.
Williamsburg, VA: National Center for State Courts.
Russell, Sonia. 2002. “Three’s a crowd”: Shifting dynamics in the interpreted interview.
In Janet Cotterill (ed.), Language in the legal process, paperback edn., 2004, 111–126.
New York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Sacks, Harvey. 1984. On doing being ordinary. In J. Maxwell Atkinson & John Heritage
(eds.), Structures of social action: Studies in conversation analysis, 413–429. Cam-
bridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Sacks, Harvey. 1995. Lectures on conversation. Cambridge, MA: Blackwell.
Sacks, Harvey, Emanuel Schegloff & Gail Jefferson. 1974. A simplest systematics for the
organization of turn taking in conversation. Language 50. 696–735.
Sarat, Austin. 1976. Alternatives in dispute processing: Litigation in a small claims
court. Law & Society 10. 339–375.
237
References
Schegloff, Emanuel A. 1993. Reflections on quantification in the study of conversation.
Research on Language and Social Interaction 26(1). 99–128.
Schegloff, Emanuel & Harvey Sacks. 1973. Opening up closings. Semiotica 8. 289–327.
Schieffelin, Bambi B. 1990. The give and take of everyday life: Language socialization of
Kaluli children. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Schieffelin, Bambi B. & M. Cochran-Smith. 1984. Learning to read culturally: Literacy
before schooling. In Hillel Goelman, Antoinette A. Oberg & Frank Smith (eds.),
Awakening to literacy: The University of Victoria Symposium on Children’s Response
to a Literate Environment: Literacy before Schooling, 3–23. Exeter, NH: Heinemann
Educational Books.
Schieffelin, Bambi B. & Rachelle Charlier Doucet. 1994. The “real” Haitian Creole: Ide-
ology, metalinguistics, and orthographic choice. American Ethnologist 21. 176–200.
Schmitt, Elena. 2000. Overt and covert codeswitching in immigrant children from
Russia. International Journal of Bilingualism 4(1). 9–28.
Seeber, Kilian G. 2011. Cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting: Existing theories—
new models. Interpreting: International Journal of Research & Practice in Interpret-
ing 13(2). 176–204.
Shlesinger, Miriam. 1991. Interpreter latitude vs. due process: Simultaneous and con-
secutive interpretation in multilingual trials. In Sonja Tirkkonen-Condit (ed.),
Empirical research in translation and intercultural studies, 147–155. Tübingen:
Günter Narr.
Shlesinger, Miriam. 1994. Intonation in the production and perception of simultaneous
interpretation. In Sylvie Lambert & Barbara Moser-Mercer (eds.), Bridging the gap:
Empirical research in simultaneous interpretation, 225–236. (Benjamins Translation
Library). Amsterdam & Philadelphia: J. Benjamins.
Shlesinger, Miriam & Franz Pöchhacker. 2008. Introduction: Doing justice to court in-
terpreting. Interpreting 10(1). 1–7.
Silverstein, Michael. 1979. Language structure and linguistic ideology. In Paul R. Clyne,
William F. Hanks & Carol L. Hofbauer (eds.), The elements: A parasession on lin-
guistic units and levels, 193–247. Chicago, IL: Chicago Linguistic Society.
Silverstein, Michael. 1996. Monoglot “Standard” in America: Standardization and met-
aphors of linguistic hegemony. In Donald Lawrence Brenneis & R. H. S. Macau-
lay (eds.), The matrix of language: Contemporary linguistic anthropology, 284–306.
Boulder, CO: Westview.
Solan, Lawrence & Peter Tiersma. 2005. Speaking of crime: The language of criminal
justice. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.
Spears, Arthur K. 1990. Tense, mood, and aspect in the Haitian Creole preverbal marker
system. In John Victor Singler (ed.), Pidgin and creole tense-mood-aspect systems,
119–142. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Tannen, Deborah. 1987. Repetition in conversation: Towards a poetics of talk. Language
63. 574–605.
Thomason, Sarah Grey & Terrence Kaufman. 1988. Language contact, creolization, and
genetic linguistics. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Tiersma, Peter. 1999. Legal language. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.
Tomasello, Michael. 2008. Origins of human communication (The Jean Nicod Lectures).
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
References
238
Toribio, Almeida Jacqueline. 2000. Language variation and the linguistic enactment of
identity among Dominicans. Linguistics 38. 1133–1159.
Toury, Gideon. 1995. Descriptive translation studies and beyond. Amsterdam & Philadel-
phia: Benjamins.
Trudgill, Peter. 1986. Dialects in contact. Oxford: Blackwell.
Trudgill, Peter. 2004. New-dialect formation: The inevitability of colonial Englishes.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Trudgill, Peter. 2010. Investigations in sociohistorical linguistics: Stories of colonisation
and contact. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Tyler, Andrea. 1994. The role of repetition in perceptions of discourse coherence. Jour-
nal of Pragmatics 21(6). 671–688.
Urciuoli, Bonnie. 1996. Exposing prejudice: Puerto Rican experiences of language, race,
and class. Boulder, CO: Westview Press.
Valdés, Guadelupe. 1990. When does a witness need an interpreter? Preliminary guide-
lines for establishing language competence and incompetence. La Raza Law Jour-
nal 3. 1–27.
Valdés, Guadelupe. 2003. Expanding definitions of giftedness: The case of young interpret-
ers from immigrant communities. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Valdés, Guadelupe & Claudia Angelelli. 2003. Interpreters, interpreting, and the study
of bilingualism. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics 23. 58–78.
Valdés, Guadelupe, Heather Brookes & Christina Chávez. 2003. Bilinguals and bilin-
gualism. In Guadelupe Valdés (ed.), Expanding definitions of giftedness: The case
of young interpreters from immigrant communities, 25–61. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence
Erlbaum.
Viens, Christine, Georges L. Bastin, Solange Duhamel & Roselyne Moreau. 2002.
L’accréditation des interprètes judiciaires au Palais de justice de Montréal. Meta
47. 289–293.
Vinay, Jean-Paul & Jean Darbelnet. 1995. A methodology for translation. In Juan C.
Sager & M. J. Hamel (eds.), Comparative stylistics of French and English: A method-
ology for translation, 31–42. Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Wadensjö, Cecilia. 1998. Interpreting as interaction. London & New York: Longman.
Weinreich, Uriel. 1968. Languages in contact: Findings and problems. The Hague:
Mouton.
Weller, Steven, John C. Ruhnka & John A. Martin. 1990. American small claims courts.
In Christopher J. Whelan (ed.), Small claims courts: A comparative study, 5–23. New
York: Oxford University Press & Clarendon Press.
Whelan, Christopher J. 1990. Small claims courts: a comparative study. New York:
Oxford University Press/Clarendon Press.
Wodak, Ruth. 1980. Discourse analysis and courtroom interaction. Discourse Processes
3. 369–380.
Woodbury, Hanni. 1984. The strategic use of questions in court. Semiotica 48. 197–228.
Woolard, Kathryn A. 1999. Simultaneity and bivalency as strategies in bilingualism.
Journal of Linguistic Anthropology 8(1). 3–29.
Woolard, Kathryn A. 2004. Codeswitching. In Alessandro Duranti (ed.), A companion
to linguistic anthropology, 73–94. Malden, MA: Blackwell.
239
References
Yngvesson, Barbara & Patricia Hennessey. 1975. Small claims, complex disputes: A
review of the small claims literature. Law & Society Review, 9(2). 219–274.
Zentella, Ana Celia. 1990. Lexical leveling in four New York City Spanish dialects: Lin-
guistic and social factors. Hispania 73. 1094–1105.
Zentella, Ana Celia. 1997a. Spanish in New York. In Ofelia García & Joshua A Fishman
(eds.), The multilingual Apple: Languages in New York City, 167–201. Berlin & New
York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Zentella, Ana Celia. 1997b. Growing up bilingual: Puerto Rican children in New York.
Malden, MA: Blackwell.
241
INDEX
Abel, Richard, 17, 200, 202
accent, 104, 159, 193, 198, 223n4
accommodation, 13, 146, 152, 174, 179, 186–189,
193, 206
accommodation theory, 152, 174
accuracy, 72–73, 101, 135
address, forms of, 44, 83, 86–87
addressee role, 12, 81–86, 93, 100, 102, 128,
149, 151
adjacency pair, 134, 149, 154, 161, 184
adversarial trial, 50–51, 224n10
agency, 79, 115, 214n8
Albanian, 20, 21, 71
all-or-nothing rule of language choice, 8, 10,
137–139, 202–203
American Sign Language, 20
anaphoric transfer, see cohesive insertion
Anderson, Laurie, 142, 152, 153
Anderson, R. Bruce W., 75, 76, 100
Angelelli, Claudia, 70, 75, 214n2
Angermeyer, Philipp, 8, 85–89, 165–166, 168,
170, 173
animator, participant role of, 81–82, 162,
164, 198
answers, 111, 114, 134, 149, 162, 172, 203
appeals, grounds for, 8, 163
impossibility in arbitration, 42–43, 212n2,
213n11
Arabic, 19, 21, 22, 71
arbitration, 49–54
vs. judge-led trial, 17, 42–44, 201, 211n2,
213n11
arbitrators, 42–49
fast versus slow style of, 48, 50, 59, 63–67, 90,
110, 193, 200–201, 223n8, 224n10
insurance lawyers as, 93, 201, 211n14, 212n3,
213n5, 213n7
legal ideology of, 45–48, 59, 64–67, 224n10
neutrality of, 37, 152
procedure-oriented vs. record-oriented, 47,
49–50, 213n9
Spanish-speaking, 38, 45, 49, 63, 205, 210n5,
219n2
assessment of L2 proficiency, 137–138, 140, 202;
see also interpreting, request for
assessments (in interaction), 37
asylum hearings, 70, 99, 122, 202–203
asymmetrical power relations, 31, 99, 130,
174, 206
Atkinson, J. Maxwell, 13, 37, 50–52, 110, 119,
150, 152, 172
attention drawn to interpreter, 73, 111, 133
attorneys, 16–17, 28–29, 31–32, 50, 76, 88,
93, 130, 194–200, 204, 211n14,
224n10
bilingual, 143
representing insurance companies, 28, 31, 93,
201, 212n3, 213n5
audio-recording in the courtroom, viii, 14, 18,
210n9
Auer, Peter, 6, 13–14, 75, 143–147, 149, 154–156,
166, 168, 170, 173, 192
back-channelling, 99, 119, 135, 163; see also
feedback; response tokens
Backus, Ad, 145, 166, 176, 222n18
Bakhtin, Mikhail M., 82
Baraldi, Claudio, 99
Barrett, Rusty, 28
Bengali, 19, 21, 71
Berk-Seligson, Susan, 4, 8, 20, 31, 39, 70, 73,
79–82, 90, 93, 101–103, 110, 131, 214n2,
214n8, 218n11, 222n25
BICS (Basic Interpersonal Communicative
Skills), 137–138
bilingualism, 6–8, 11, 21, 75, 81, 189, 192
bilingual jurisdictions, 5, 124
bilingual speech, 14, 106–107, 142–145, 158, 166,
185, 188–189
bivalency, 144, 160, 222n23
Blommaert, Jan, 5, 22, 122, 203
Bolden, Galina, 13, 140
borrowing, 165–168, 181; see also insertion
Bosnian, 71
Bot, Hanneke, 80–81, 83
Bourdieu, Pierre, 31, 205
Note: Locators followed by the letter ‘n’ refer to notes.
Index
242
Brooklyn, 18, 20–21, 23, 34, 211n13
Civil Court, 44, 46, 201, 212n3
burden of communication, 120, 193, 197
burden of proof, 54, 175, 223n7
Burmese, 20
CA, see Conversation Analysis
calendar call, 43–44
Callahan, Laura, 28
CALP (Cognitive Academic Language
Proficiency), 137–138
calque, 180, 222n19
Cambodian, 20
Cantonese, 5, 18–19, 21–22, 71
car accidents, disputes arising from, 28–29, 32,
59, 104, 138, 211n13, 213n5, 220n11
Caribbean Spanish, attitudes towards, 183,
187–188
case types, labeling of, 25, 30, 57, 210n11
Census, U.S., 4, 20–21
Chinese, 5, 18, 20–23
Christensen, Tina Paulsen, 93
chuchotage, 83, 85, 103, 218n10
claimants, 24–32
testimony of, 50, 52–58, 103, 107, 117, 122,
127, 138
Clayman, Steven, 13, 119, 161, 172
code-mixing, 24, 143–145, 168
code of ethics, court interpreters’, 72–73, 80, 99,
214n3, 214n6
codeswitching, 6, 8, 14, 142–165, 188–190
and bilingual competence, 143–144, 154,
157–158, 189
and interpreter-mediated interaction, 142,
144–150, 155, 157, 161–162
as accommodation, 152, 156, 189
as quasi translation, 154–156
attitudes towards, 105, 107, 145, 157, 183,
188, 203
awareness of, 158, 189
between Haitian Creole and English,
199
between Polish and English, 157
between Russian and English, 7, 24, 105–107,
166–168, 180
between Spanish and English, 23, 166, 183,
188–189
conversational, 13, 14, 143, 158
direction of, 144, 147, 155–156
discourse-related, 146–147, 154
emblematic, 9, 144
for addressee specification, 143, 149
for emphasis, 156, 169, 188
for reiteration, 156
functions of, 14, 144, 149–150, 152–154, 156,
158, 163–165, 188
in self-selected turns, 150–151
intimate, 143–145, 166
intrasentential, 105–107, 143
metaphorical, 144
preference-related, 145, 147, 154
sequential analysis of, 145–147
unreciprocal language choice, 146
cognates, 176–178, 186, 222n19
cognitive load, 12, 131, 203, 218n11
coherence, 114, 122–123
cohesive insertion, 13, 170, 172–174, 221n15
common law, 5, 50, 221n16; see also adversarial
trial
communication control principle, 192
communicative burden, see burden of
communication
comprehension
by second language listeners, 138–139
checking of, 69, 99, 103, 119–120, 161, 178,
192–193, 204
conditions for, 122, 193–194
in simultaneous interpreting, 138–139,
218n12
conduit metaphor, 8, 192, 215n10
confirmation of understanding, 109, 119, 161,
178, 194, 196
confirmation-seeking questions, see questions
Conley, John, 6, 12, 16, 22–25, 29, 37–38, 47–48,
53, 57–59, 62, 65–67, 153, 213n6, 221n17
consecutive interpreting, 3, 88, 102–103,
148–149, 218n11
cognitive demands of, 109, 131, 218n11
interpreters’ preference for, 124, 129–132,
218n11
pragmatic consequences of, 4, 12, 102, 111,
117, 120, 130, 135–136, 204
use in formal courts, 203, 204
see also interpreting; interpreting modes
consent to arbitration, 47, 49–50, 138, 213n11
consent to recording, 210n9
contextualization, 146–147, 154
continuers, 120; see also response tokens
continuity of reference, 176, 179, 185; see also
same meaning, same form principle
convergence, 146–147, 152–153, 174, 187, 219n3
Conversation Analysis, 13–14, 119, 143, 163, 172
core borrowing, 167; see also insertion
Cotterill, Janet, 185
Coulmas, Florian, 192, 222n1
Coupland, Justine, 13, 152, 174, 189
Coupland, Nikolas, 13, 152, 174, 186, 189
coupled pairs, 167, 221n11
court interpreters, viii, 70–76, 89
availability of, 9, 18–19, 38, 71–72
code of ethics for, 72–73, 80, 99, 214n3,
214n6
243
Index
giving procedural instruction, 56–57, 62, 74, 77
per diem, 20, 71–73, 94
status of Spanish, 20, 49, 71, 73–74, 77, 92,
183, 214n4, 214n6
staff, 18–19, 38, 71–74, 77, 92
testing of, 71–72, 131
see also interpreters
court interpreting, 4, 70, 101–103
scheduling of, 18–20, 22, 72
see also interpreting
court record (official transcript)
absence in small claims arbitration, 43,
213n9, 214n9
in formal courts, 50, 52, 81, 99, 213n10
courtroom architecture, 42, 46–47
courtroom talk, 13, 65, 114, 119, 134, 174
credibility, 2, 10–11, 101, 179, 203–204
creoles, 22
Croatian, 71
cross-examination, 2, 50–51, 138–139, 141, 171,
185, 216n6
Cubans, 184, 205
cultural borrowing, 167; see also insertion
culturalization, 38, 63
culture, 33, 38, 63, 111, 222n18
Cummins, Jim, 137
customer complaints, 27, 29–30, 32, 138
data collection, 6, 14, 18
Davidson, Brad, 13, 70, 75, 99–100, 109,
118–119, 130, 142, 152, 163
decision-making, interpreters’ translation of, 90
judicial approaches to, 64–68, 200
defendants, 24–32
testimony of, 50, 53–54
deictic shift, 83–85, 87–94, 215n11
D’hondt, Sigurd, 31, 38, 93, 103, 111, 120
dialect contact, 183, 187
dialogue interpreting, 70, 83, 87, 218n9
direct examination, 50, 132, 138
direct speech, 80, 95
direct translation, 79–82, 85, 87, 89–90, 99, 133,
160, 193
disadvantages, of interpreted litigants, 4, 125,
135–137, 191, 200, 204–205
of pro se litigants, 32, 224n10
discourse markers, 101, 144
dispute resolution, 17, 25, 63, 202
disputes, 16–17, 21, 24–34; see also car accidents;
customer complaints; employee/employer
conflicts; tenant/landlord conflicts
divergence, 187, 189, 222n26, 222n27
Dominicans, 23, 29–30, 33, 77, 183, 188
Doucet, Rachelle, 24
Drew, Paul, 13, 51, 110, 150, 172, 185
due process, 8, 215n1
Eades, Diana, 5, 51, 137, 153, 185–186, 202,
216n6
echoing, 148, 157, 159–163, 219n4, 219n5
Ehrlich, Susan, 51–52, 185
employee/employer conflicts, 27–28, 31–33, 36,
46, 59, 138, 211n15
English, discouraging of L2 use, 7–8, 105,
137–139, 157, 192, 199
indexicality of using, 10–11, 49, 106, 205
social dominance of, 3, 76, 100, 166,
174, 206
testimony given in L2, 118–122, 138–139, 179,
188, 199
epistemic authority, 159–164
epistemic priority, 162–163
epistemic stance, 127
equality before the law, 5, 16, 191, 199–200,
202, 204
ethical, see code of ethics
evidence (in court), 10, 25–30, 45, 220n11
face threats, 115, 130
false friends, 178
false starts, in L2–usage, 7, 104, 159, 161
in simultaneous interpreting, 131–132
Farsi, 20
fast arbitrators, see arbitrators
feedback, 99, 119, 197, 199; see also
back-channelling; response tokens
Felstiner, William, 17
fieldnotes, 14, 48
fieldwork, 6, 14, 17–18, 23
filing a claim, 29, 32, 38–41, 211n17, 215n2
first-pair parts, 37, 154–155
first person plural, 78–79
first person translation, 80–82; see also direct
translation
footing, 14, 37, 79, 81, 83; see also deictic shift
formal trials, 52, 114, 203, 214n9
formulation, 119
fragmentation of discourse, 114, 117, 123–125,
130, 135, 203, 217n7; see also narratives
freelance interpreters, see court interpreters, per
diem
French, 19–22, 71, 210n10, 214n1, 221n17
frivolous lawsuits, see “garbage” cases
Fukienese, 20
“garbage” cases, 33, 63
Garcia, Angela, 13, 213n6
García, Ofelia, 4, 188, 189
Gardner, Rod, 119, 163
Gardner-Chloros, Penelope, 142–143, 149
gatekeeping, 75, 100
Gavioli, Laura, 99
gender, 38, 58, 90, 130, 214n2
Index
244
Gibbons, John, 50, 176, 179
Giles, Howard, 13, 152, 174, 189
Goffman, Erving, 14, 74, 81–83, 149, 162–163
Greek, 19, 21, 71, 214n1
Gujarati, 21
Gumperz, John J., 5, 75, 122, 143–144, 149,
153, 156
Guyanese, 22
Haitian Creole, 159, 196
interpreting for, 19, 22, 70–71, 210n10
spoken in New York, 18, 21–22, 24
varieties of, 24
Haitians, 22, 33
Hale, Sandra, 4, 70, 75, 93, 101, 159, 179, 191
Halliday, M.A.K., 168, 170
Hasan, Ruqaiya, 168, 170
Hatim, Basil, 109
Haviland, John B., 3, 6, 8, 10, 22, 24, 73, 81, 102,
106, 160, 162, 179, 191–192, 204–205
Hebrew, 19–21, 71
Heller, Monica, 6, 75, 144–145
Heritage, John, 13, 119, 161, 163
Hindi, 19, 21, 71
Hungarian, 20, 214n1
immigration, 18, 32–34, 166, 206
immigration status, 28, 35–36
indexicality, 3, 10–11, 81, 144, 168, 179, 189, 191,
202–204
indirect translation, 79–80, 82, 85, 88–95, 215n13
inequality, 5, 122, 166, 174, 205
informal justice, 6, 13, 37, 47, 50, 68, 76, 202
information-seeking questions, see questions
Inghilleri, Moira, 70, 73, 75, 82, 215n10
inquest hearings, 44, 49, 54, 63, 212n2
inquisitorial system, 50
insertion, 13, 143–144, 165, 221n14
and cognates, 177
as input for translation, 178–179
asymmetrical distribution of, 166, 173–174, 206
attitudes towards, 105, 188
attribution to specific language of, 165, 167,
181, 184, 221n11
cohesive, see cohesive insertion
competing with LOTE forms, 167–168,
222n18
discourse-related, 172, 176–177, 199
interpreters’ avoidance of, 182–188
interpreter’s use of, 179–182, 187, 221n13,
222n21
nominal, 144, 166
preference-related, 166; see also lexical gap
insurance lawyers, see attorneys
intercultural communication, 4, 15, 33, 111, 192,
216n6
interference, 122, 143, 158–159, 188
interpreters
as addressees, 93–94
as gatekeepers, 62, 75, 78, 100
identity of, 75–76
neutrality of, 72–73, 75–76
role of, 75–76
see also court interpreters
interpreter use, indexicality of, 3, 11
instruction of, 7, 105–106, 155
interpreting
consecutive mode, see consecutive
interpreting
long vs. short consecutive mode of, 107,
218n11
non-professional, 70, 85, 140
request for, 6, 9, 105–106, 215n2
simultaneous mode, see simultaneous
interpreting
source-centered style of, 85
standby mode, see standby interpreting
target-centered style of, 85, 128
interpreting mode
choice of, 102–103, 127–128
distribution in court, 3, 103, 124, 128,
135–136, 203–204
see also consecutive interpreting;
simultaneous interpreting; standby
interpreting
interpreting norms, community, 81, 85,
215n12
institutional, 94, 99, 124, 128, 136
professional, 57, 73, 80–81
interruption
by arbitrators, 60, 63–65, 77, 110–111, 114,
195–196, 216n5
by interpreters, 90, 107, 110, 123–124,
128–130, 136
by litigants, 62, 164
see also fragmentation of discourse
intertextuality, 173
interviews, 14, 23, 69, 71, 76–77, 214n4
Italian, 20, 21, 71, 214n1
Jacobsen, Bente, 103, 110, 127, 131, 218n11
Jacquemet, Marco, 5, 70, 100, 148, 160,
202–203
Jamaicans, 22
Japanese, 20, 71
Johnstone, Barbara, 168, 170, 172
judges, 40–41, 42–43, 105, 211n2, 223n5
legal ideology of, see arbitrators
245
Index
Kadric, Mira, 38, 70, 103, 110, 140
keywords, insertion of, 171–173, 177
Knapp, Karlfried, 70, 75–76, 81, 83
Knapp-Potthoff, Annelie, 70, 75–76, 81, 83
Komter, Martha, 13, 150
Korean, 19, 21, 29, 71
L2, see second language
Labov, William, 53, 127
landlord/tenant conflicts, see tenant/landlord
conflicts
language boundaries, 13, 22, 144, 165, 167
language choice, 5–7, 137, 206
as tied to credibility, 2, 10–11, 204
convergence of, 146–147
court’s instruction of, 7–8, 105–106
indexicality of, 3, 10–11, 49, 144, 191–192,
202–204
negotiation of, see language negotiation
repair of, 155–156, 158, 162
language ideology, 3, 5–6, 8, 11, 22, 73, 80–81,
87, 100, 137, 183–185, 188–192, 202, 205
language negotiation, 6, 106, 139, 145–146
language shift, 23, 143, 146, 206
Lee, Jieun, 101, 131
legal anthropology, 17, 47
legal consciousness, 17, 32–37
legal ideology, 12, 47, 66, 90
legal language, 49–50, 176–177, 221n17,
222n27
length of hearing, 12, 42–43, 46, 48
lexical choice, 77, 100, 174, 176, 181–183,
185–188, 222n24
lexical cohesion, 168–170, 172, 177
lexical gap, as motivation for borrowing or
insertion, 166, 169, 172, 179; see also
insertion
lexical perversion, 185
lexical repair, 181–182
lexical repetition, 13, 168, 170, 173–174, 179,
221n13
lexical retrieval, 166, 179
lexical struggle, 182, 185–188
Li Wei, 13, 144–145, 155
liaison interpreting, 70; see also dialogue
interpreting
Licoppe, Christian, 136, 204, 218n13
Limited English Proficient persons, 142
Linell, Per, 153, 174, 222n27
lingua franca, 28
linguistic market, 31, 205
linguistic relativity, functional, 5
Lippi-Green, Rosina, 5, 122, 193, 198
listener cooperation, 122, 193, 199
loan shift, 178, 186
loanwords, 165, 188, 221n14, 222n19; see also
borrowing
LOTE (Language other than English), 4, 214n6
lying, see credibility
Mandarin, 18–22, 71
Manhattan, 18, 21, 23, 211n13
Civil Court, 19–20, 32, 38, 44, 46, 201, 212n3
Maryns, Katrijn, 9, 70, 202–203
Mason, Ian, 82, 109
Matoesian, Gregory, 13, 51, 185
mediation, 47, 213n6
medical interpreting, 70, 152
Merry, Sally E., 6, 16–17, 25, 30–33, 63, 65
Meyer, Bernd, 70, 81, 140, 142, 152, 179–180,
218n9, 222n21
Mikkelson, Holly, 11, 73, 99, 191, 222n20
Miranda warning, 137, 203
miscommunication, 82, 86–87, 99, 109–114,
117–118, 120, 122, 138, 141
mode of interpreting, see consecutive
interpreting; interpreting; simultaneous
interpreting
monolingualism, courts’ ideology of, 8–10, 137,
192, 202
Morris, Ruth, 4, 70, 80, 82, 99, 101
multilingualism, 4, 13, 76; see also bilingualism
multilinguals, 24, 170, 214n1
Muysken, Pieter, 142–143, 165–166, 199
Myers-Scotton, Carol, 143–145, 165–168
narrative inequality, 122, 125, 130, 199
narrative structure, 53, 107, 110, 112,
127, 196
narratives, 52–53
arbitrators’ expectations of, 54–55, 58, 67,
135, 153
as evidence in court, 54, 202–203
fragmented by consecutive interpreting, 111,
114, 120, 123–124, 130
fragmented by questioning, 107, 114, 203
in testimony, 51–52, 114, 138
listener feedback in, 119–120
second language, 118–122, 138
simultaneous interpretation of, 126–127
therapeutic function of, 65–66
National Association of Judicial Interpreters
and Translators (NAJIT), 73, 80, 214n3
neutrality, see arbitrators; interpreters
New York City
linguistic diversity of, 4, 20–21, 23, 26, 31, 76,
166, 183, 187, 205–206
policies, 213n12
Index
246
New York City (continued)
Spanish speakers, see Spanish
see also Brooklyn; Manhattan; Queens
New York State Unified Court System
Civil Court policies, 6, 25, 32, 64
interpreting services of, 71–72, 80, 124, 128,
131, 211n16, 214n6
Ng, Kwai Hang, 5, 124, 140, 205
non-first firsts, 154–155
nonnative English
attitudes towards, 122, 193, 198, 223n4
interpreters’ use of, 70, 115, 161, 198
see also accent
oath, 50, 220n6
O’Barr, William, 6, 12, 16, 22–25, 29, 37–38,
47–48, 53, 57–59, 62, 65–67, 114, 153, 176,
213n6, 221n17
Ochs, Elinor, 3, 189, 219n5
Orellana, Marjorie Faulstich, 11, 70
Otheguy, Ricardo, 23, 187, 222n22
other-repair, 184
overhearer, see unaddressed recipient
overlapping talk, interpreters’ reaction to, 4, 65,
91, 110, 130–132, 150
paraphrasing, 88, 161–162, 219n4
participant observation, 14, 23
partipation framework, 81–82, 162–164
in courtroom talk, 102
in interpreting, 83–87, 94, 127, 148–150, 198
Pashto, 20, 26, 73
passive voice, 90–91, 101, 214n8
Pavlenko, Aneta, 137, 215n3
Philips, Susan, 12, 47–49, 66, 213n9
Pöchhacker, Franz, 70, 75, 82, 131, 191, 218n11,
219n4
Poles, 24, 27–28, 33, 205
Polish, characteristics of, 87
interpreting for, 19, 70–72, 89
spoken in New York, 18, 21–22, 24
varieties of, 22, 210n7
politeness, 84, 87
Poplack, Shana, 23, 143–145, 166
Portuguese, 20, 24, 71
principal, participant role of, 81–82, 162, 164
proceedings interpretation, 103; see also
unaddressed recipients, interpreting for
pronouns, 82, 85, 90
pro se litigants, 17, 28, 32, 50, 99, 138–139, 199,
204, 224n10
Puerto Ricans, 11, 23, 166, 188
Punjabi, 19, 21, 71
Queens, 18, 21, 211n13
Civil Court, 44, 46, 201, 212n3, 213n5
question form, 51–52, 114
questions
closed, 51–52, 58–59, 114, 120, 134, 171
confirmation-seeking, 104, 135, 160–163, 197
declarative, 51, 134, 161
information-seeking, 51, 171
yes/no, 8, 51–52, 114, 160
see also wh-questions
Raymond, Geoffrey, 134, 163
referential transparency, 6, 8, 73, 81, 192
reflexive passive, 214n8
reformulation, 159, 161
relationship-oriented discourse, see rules vs.
relationship
relaying by displaying, 82, 85–86
relaying by replaying, 81, 85–86
renditions, close, 12, 88, 109, 127, 131, 135
divergent, 109, 114–115, 121, 196, 216n4,
217n7
reduced, 161, 216n4
summarized, 134–135, 216n4
repair, 133, 154–156, 158, 162
repetition, see lexical repetition
reported speech, 73, 79–85, 92, 95, 101, 128; see
also indirect translation
response tokens, 119–120, 130, 163–164, 191, 197
absence in interpreter-mediated interaction,
119, 135, 197
see also back-channelling, feedback
Reynolds, Jennifer, 11, 70
Richland, Justin B., 5
right to interpreting, 7–8, 139, 215n1
Romanian, 20, 21, 26, 70, 74, 214n1
Roy, Cynthia, 13, 75, 110, 148
Ruhnka, John C., 16, 17, 39, 211n14, 211n17
rule-oriented discourse, interpreters’ preference
for, 56–57, 78
rules vs. relationships model 37–38, 47, 57–59,
67, 77, 197
Russian, characteristics of, 108
codeswitching, see codeswitching
interpreting for, 19–20, 70–72, 89
learners of English, 161, 215n3
lexical borrowing in, 104, 168, 177, 180,
221n14
second language comprehension of, 160, 205,
220n6
spoken in New York, 18, 20–24, 26, 33–34,
166, 222n26
Sacks, Harvey, 13, 14, 111, 163
same meaning, same form principle, 176–177, 185
same-speaker repetition, 170
Sarat, Austin, 17, 32, 200–201, 210n11, 224n10
Schegloff, Emanuel, 13, 14, 111, 120
247
Index
Schieffelin, Bambi, 14–15, 24, 75, 78, 219n5
second language competence, 70, 122, 137–139
second-pair part, 155
second person, use in interpreting, 83–86, 90
second-speaker repetition, 170
Section 8 rental assistance, 26, 31, 34–35, 61,
181–182, 210n12, 222n18
self-repair, 155–156, 158, 181, 183, 187
self-selection, 35, 91, 110, 150–151
semantic extension, see loan shift
Serbian, 20, 71
settlements, hearings ending in, 30, 46–47, 64,
95–98, 213n6
shadowing, see echoing
Shanghainese, 20
Shlesinger, Miriam, 70, 82, 191, 218n12
short consecutive mode, see consecutive
interpreting
Sidnell, Jack, 52
silence, culture-specific meaning of, 216n6
Silverstein, Michael, 3, 5, 11, 192, 205
simultaneous interpreting, 4, 102
cognitive demands of, 131
of same-language dialogues, 83, 132–133
omission of source content in, 3, 87, 127,
131–132
psycholinguistic studies of, 131, 218n11
testing in, 71, 131
use in court, 103, 128, 131, 136
use of insertion in, 180
working conditions for, 131, 203
see also interpreting; interpreting modes
Slovak, 20
small claims court, 6, 16–17, 24–25, 68
claimant success in, 32, 200–201
history of, 16, 32, 209n1
procedures in, 25, 32, 38, 43
social class, 38, 58, 77, 183
Solan, Lawrence M., 138, 203
source, 70, 167, 179, 204, 221n11
source-centered interpreting style, 12, 80, 85–87
Spanish
as lingua franca, 28
codeswitching. see codeswitching
cognates, 176–178, 186–187
contested lexical choice in, 182–188
dialectal variation in, 23, 77, 183, 186–188
hearings conducted in, 45, 49, 205
in New York City, 4, 13, 18, 20–24, 187–188,
205
interpreting for, 19–20, 70–71, 73, 89
passive constructions, 214n8
second language use of, 22, 24, 28, 49, 74, 140
use by court staff, 38–39, 43, 143, 173–174,
189, 205
see also arbitrators; court interpreters
speech acts, 135
standard language ideology, 3, 5, 22, 163, 185,
188, 205
standby interpreting, 139–141, 203, 219n14
story, use of term, 54, 58, 65–67, 103, 107, 200
swearing in, see oath
Tagalog, 21, 122
tag-switching, 144–145
talk-as-text, 102, 108, 117
target, 70, 86, 167
target-centered interpreting style, 85–88, 132,
135, 186
tenant/landlord conflicts, 26, 31–32, 62–63, 138,
213n12
third person, use by arbitrators, 55, 93–94
third person translation, see indirect translation
Tiersma, Peter, 50, 81, 138, 176, 203, 222n17
Toury, Gideon, 70, 167, 180, 221n11
transcript, see court record
transcription conventions, 207
transcription process, viii, 14–15
transidiomatic items, 160, 220n6
translanguaging, 189
translatability, 5, 101
translation equivalence, 101–102, 160, 167–168,
185, 190, 221n11, 222n17
translationese, 180
trouble sources, 94, 114, 118–119, 133
Trudgill, Peter, 174, 189
Turkish, 20
turn taking, ambiguity in consecutive
interpreting, 111, 114, 130
asymmetrical rights of, 110, 118, 130,
136, 155
in consecutive interpreting, 102, 107,
148–149, 157
pre-allocation in courtroom talk, 50, 110,
134, 150
turn transition, 111, 123, 216n6
Twi, 20, 72
Ukrainian, 210n7
unaddressed recipients, interpreting for, 12,
83–87, 102–103, 125–136, 138, 203
understanding
confirmation, 109, 119, 161, 178, 194, 196
negotiation of, 119–120, 193, 197
see also comprehension
Urciuoli, Bonnie, 11, 23, 93, 148, 206
Urdu, 19, 21, 71
Valdés, Guadelupe, 70, 75, 81, 138, 215n12,
218n9
verbatim translation, 73, 80, 99; see also direct
translation; referential transparency
Index
248
vernacular, 10, 22
Vernier, Maud, 136, 204, 218n13
Vietnamese, 71
Wadensjö, Cecilia, 12–13, 70, 75–76, 80–90, 94,
99, 102, 108–110, 114, 119, 134, 144, 148,
160, 163, 216n4, 218n9
Weinreich, Uriel, 143, 158, 166, 168, 178
welfare, 26, 31, 132, 187; see also Section Eight
rental assistance
Weller, Steven, 16, 17, 25, 29, 32, 39, 211n14,
211n17
wh-questions, broad, 51–52, 114
narrow, 114
whispering voice, see chuchotage
witness interpretation, 102, 135–136
Wolof, 71
Woolard, Kathryn, 144, 158, 160, 188, 222n23
working memory, 131, 218n11
yes/no interrogatives, see questions, yes/no
Yiddish, 19–21, 71
Zentella, Ana Celia, 23, 145, 187–188
