4 Critical Inquiry, 2003 Editorial Symposium, at
<www.uchicago.edu/research/jnl-crit-inq/features/symposium03/
shtml>.
5 Morris Dickstein presents this argument on the web site of The Valve:
<www.thevalve.org/go/valve/article/thinking_about_theorys_empire/>.
6 A good expression of the way in which language can be seen as sepa-
rate from the physical world occurs in Miguel de Unamuno’s novel
Mist. This is from the funeral oration of Orfeo the dog on Augusto the
man: “When a man howls or shouts or threatens, we other animals
understand him very well! ... But he barks in a way all his own—he
speaks. And this has enabled him to invent what does not exist and to
overlook what exists. As soon as he gives a thing a name he ceases to
see the thing itself; he only hears the name that he gave it or sees it
written.... For him, everything in the world is merely a pretext for talk-
ing to other men or for talking to himself.” This is quoted as the epi-
graph to Richard Harland’s Superstructuralism (London: Routledge,
1991).
7 Times Literary Supplement, 15 July 1994.
8 Times Literary Supplement, 13 March 1998.
9 Raymond Picard, Nouvelle critique ou nouvelle imposture? (Paris: Pauvert,
1965).
10 David Lodge, Working with Structuralism (London: Routledge and Kegan
Paul, 1981) vii-viii; David Lodge, “Goodbye to All That,” New York Review
of Books, 27 May 2004, a review of Terry Eagleton’s After Theory.
11 Frank Kermode, in Life after Theory, ed. Michael Payne and John Schad
(London: Continuum, 2003) 58.
12 Morris Dickstein, see n.4 above.
13 Richard Rorty, “The Inspirational Value of Great Works of Literature,”
in Everyday Theory, ed. Becky McLaughlin and Bob Coleman (New York:
Pearson, 2005) 151.
14 Rorty, 151.
15 See the first epigraph to this book.
16 Frank Kermode says, “My view is that nobody will have any true contact
with a work of art if it isn’t modern; I mean, if it isn’t modern it has to
be made so, and it’s made so largely by commentary” (Life after Theory,
127).
17 In rewriting this book, I have benefited enormously from being able to
consult the on-line archives of the New York Review of Books (which cov-
ers 1963 to the present) and the London Review of Books (1998 to the
present).
18 Frank Kermode says, “The history of the subject [the study of litera-
ture] very often can be represented as the history of certain people,
usually men, who make themselves immense reputations and get a con-
30 In Search of Authority
a-front.qxd 05/04/2007 4:10 PM Page 30
siderable following, and then go out like lights.” He mentions
Northrop Frye as one example; others are Kenneth Burke, F.R. Leavis,
and Cleanth Brooks (Life after Theory, 59-60).
19 Norman Holland gives a brief explanation of his lack of interest in
Lacan: “Lacan became the littérateur’s psychoanalyst of choice. Like the
deconstructionists, Lacan posited a disunity in the human mind, also
justified by Saussure’s linguistics. He derived a radical discontinuity
between conscious and unconscious from the discontinuity between sig-
nifier and signified. I had attended Lacan’s clinical case presentations
at the Hôpital Sainte-Anne in 1971, and I found his behaviour toward
the mentally ill brutal and deceptive. His theory I also found unsound,
based on an erroneous linguistics (Saussure’s) and equally erroneous
notions of how human beings process language or experience. In
short, I find his work a quasi-behaviourist falsification of psychoanalysis,
and I can only wonder at my literary colleagues’ enthusiasm for it.”
<www.clas.ufl.edu/users/nnh/autobio1.htm>.
20 John Ellis develops this view in The Theory of Literary Criticism: A Logical
Analysis (Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press,
1974). In Forms of Attention (University of Chicago Press, 1985), Frank
Kermode writes:
The process of selecting the canon may be very long but, once it is
concluded, the works [included] will normally be provided with the
kinds of reading they require if they are to keep their immediacy to
any moment; that is, to maintain their modernity. They quickly
acquire virtual immunity to textual alteration, so the necessary
changes must be all interpretive; and all interpretation is governed
by prejudice. Consequently, the need to remain modern imposes
upon the chosen works transformations as great as any they may have
undergone in precanonical redaction. (75)
21 One important model for reaching a theoretical understanding, for
me, occurs in John Fowles’s The French Lieutenant’s Woman, when
Charles discovers that it is possible to have an intimate relationship
with Sarah. Before this he has a theory in his mind that such a relation-
ship is unimaginable with someone from Sarah’s social class—or with
any woman, for that matter. Slowly, agonizingly, this theory is displaced
by another, with the whole process aided by his knowledge about evolu-
tion. So the birth of a new theory can be filled with joy.
In Illusion and Reality: The Meaning of Anxiety (London: Dent, 1984), a
book that has influenced me in many ways, David Smail, a British psy-
chiatrist, explains that the suffering of his patients might be reduced if
they could understand the causes of their anxiety—if they had a theory
which would make it understandable:
It seems to me that it is precisely through a theoretical framework that
Introduction 31
a-front.qxd 05/04/2007 4:10 PM Page 31
the nature of psychological distress can best be confronted, and to
some extent alleviated.... An adequate theory—i.e. an explicit set of
ideas or concepts—is exactly what most people have no access to when
trying to get to grips with “symptoms” of their psychological malaise,
and this is why such “symptoms” seem, often, so mysterious. (1)
He goes on to explain how a theory can highlight the fact that, in liv-
ing our normal social lives, we participate in daily rituals of boasting,
pretence, and competition, which seem almost designed to produce anx-
iety in large numbers of people. Without the theory, this important fact
may be hidden from view.
32 In Search of Authority
a-front.qxd 05/04/2007 4:10 PM Page 32
PART ONE
Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 33
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 33
34 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 34
CHAPTER ONE
Why Study Literary Theory Now?
No one has time to read everything. For those of us who want to
understand literature, this is a significant problem. There are hun-
dreds of authors who entice us and who hold out the promise of con-
tributing to our pleasure in reading, and to our knowledge of litera-
ture. Then there is the vast mass of critical material: commentaries on
individual works, biographies, and histories of literature. With all of
these books beckoning, why would we want to turn our attention to
literary theory? What will it give us? Why do we need it?
This chapter provides answers to these questions. We can imagine
them arising in a concrete situation if we think of a second-year uni-
versity course on the English Romantic poets, with the following
description in the university calendar:
ENGLISH 250: The English Romantic Poets 3 hours/week
This course concentrates on the poetry of Blake, Wordsworth,
Coleridge, Shelley, Keats, and Byron. Students will study and discuss
the major poems of these authors. Attention will be paid to impor-
tant critical ideas developed in the Romantic period, and to the
idea of romanticism itself. Students will write two essays during the
year, on subjects related to the course.
It is easy to imagine a student poring over this description, trying to
wring from it a sense of what the course would actually be like. Probably
he would have little knowledge of Romantic poetry, and the prescribed
anthology might well seem daunting, with all its long poems. On the
other hand he would be engaged in the excitement of starting a new
course, with a new professor and a new group of students, which is not
unlike the excitement of joining any new group—a hockey team, a
choir, or a student council, for instance.
This course might be taught in two very different ways, and the dis-
tinction between them is crucial to understanding one of the defining
problems in the modern world, and a central problem in English
studies: relativism. Do poems have a “right” meaning? Or does the
meaning of a poem change depending on who reads it?
The course description for English 250 defines it in terms of the
material to be studied—the works of the six main Romantic poets.
The vast bulk of their work was written between 1795 and 1825, and
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 35
35
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 35
once you have a certain amount of knowledge about that work, you
could probably pass the exam in the course on the Romantic poets at
any university in the English-speaking world. The problem is to get
enough knowledge inside your head.
But there is a second way to define the course, which is not men-
tioned in this calendar entry, and it raises problems of a different
order. These problems make the study of literature controversial and
add an unpredictable element. Here are some of them: what are we
going to do with the poems on this course? What kind of knowledge
are we going to assemble about them? How does a student’s experi-
ence of reading the poems—alone, on one particular evening, for
instance—relate to the concerns of the course? And how are the
poems that will be studied chosen from the vast mass of poetry writ-
ten during the thirty years in question?
The difficulty raised by these questions is that there is no general
agreement about the answers to them. If you brought together a
dozen experts on the Romantic period, they would disagree sharply
about these matters, and even if you locked them in a room for two
weeks, they would not reach a common conclusion. To give you an
idea of what they would be arguing about, I will indicate three diffe-
rent positions they might take. (There are many others, too.) As a text
we will use one of the masterpieces of Romantic poetry, “Kubla Khan”
by Samuel Taylor Coleridge. This is one of the most concentrated and
powerful poems in the English language, and most students find it
hard to understand the first time they read it. It is worth reading many
times over.
In Xanadu did Kubla Khan
A stately pleasure-dome decree:
Where Alph, the sacred river, ran
Through caverns measureless to man
Down to a sunless sea.
So twice five miles of fertile ground
With walls and towers were girdled round:
And there were gardens bright with sinuous rills,
Where blossomed many an incense-bearing tree;
And here were forests ancient as the hills,
Enfolding sunny spots of greenery.
But oh! that deep romantic chasm which slanted
Down the green hill athwart a cedarn cover!
36 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 36
A savage place! as holy and enchanted
As e’er beneath a waning moon was haunted
By woman wailing for her demon-lover!
And from this chasm, with ceaseless turmoil seething,
As if this earth in fast thick pants were breathing,
A mighty fountain momently was forced:
Amid whose swift half-intermitted burst
Huge fragments vaulted like rebounding hail,
Or chaffy grain beneath the thresher’s flail:
And ’mid these dancing rocks at once and ever
It flung up momently the sacred river.
Five miles meandering with a mazy motion
Through wood and dale the sacred river ran,
Then reached the caverns measureless to man,
And sank in tumult to a lifeless ocean:
And ’mid this tumult Kubla heard from far
Ancestral voices prophesying war!
The shadow of the dome of pleasure
Floated midway on the waves;
Where was heard the mingled measure
From the fountain and the caves.
It was a miracle of rare device,
A sunny pleasure-dome with caves of ice!
A damsel with a dulcimer
In a vision once I saw:
It was an Abyssinian maid,
And on her dulcimer she played,
Singing of Mount Abora.
Could I revive within me
Her symphony and song,
To such a deep delight ’twould win me,
That with music loud and long,
I would build that dome in air,
That sunny dome! those caves of ice!
And all who heard should see them there,
And all should cry, Beware! Beware!
His flashing eyes, his floating hair!
Weave a circle round him thrice,
And close your eyes with holy dread,
For he on honey-dew hath fed,
And drunk the milk of Paradise.
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 37
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 37
If a historical critic were giving this course, he would tell you that
the first thing to do with the poem is to place it in the context in
which it was written. Normally this would involve relating it to our
knowledge of Coleridge’s life at the time, which is rich in pertinent
information. He wrote the poem in his middle twenties, when he
already had a reputation for brilliance and wide reading. He was
unsure, however, of how to make use of his talents in a career, and
he may also have been addicted to opium. Coleridge himself said
that he composed the poem while he was asleep or in a “reverie,”
after taking laudanum, a common household medicine (like aspirin
today, but containing opium). He also said that the poem was a frag-
ment of a larger whole, which he had “written” while he was asleep
but which he could not remember in its entirety when he came to
write it down.
This background information raises some fascinating biographi-
cal questions. Was the poem actually composed, as it were, by
Coleridge’s unconscious mind, while he was asleep? How might it
have been influenced by the opium he had taken? Many of the
phrases in the poem are similar to, or the same as, phrases in
books to which Coleridge had had access. Does this poem illus-
trate the power of Coleridge’s mind to retain and integrate a vast
amount of reading? Do the themes of the poem reflect the deep
concerns Coleridge had about his own future—and the uses to
which genius could be put? The Chinese emperor Kubla Khan is
presented as a supreme autocrat who can “decree” that a pleasure-
dome be built; but the poem criticizes this kind of absolute power
by suggesting that it is out of harmony with the forces of nature.
In the last verse-paragraph, Coleridge presents another image of
genius: the inspired poet, who enters a god-like state and is
surrounded by fervent admirers. Coleridge did have some experi-
ence of this situation; he had enthusiastic admirers, and he
liked the support they gave him. The real meaning of the poem,
for the historical critic, would be the full meaning it had for
Coleridge.
If a psychological critic were giving this course, she might say
that the interest of “Kubla Khan” lies not in its connection with
Coleridge’s life, but in the way it articulates a commonly experi-
enced dichotomy between two parts of a human being: the
conscious, controlling, rational part, and the unconscious
drives of sexuality and aggression. The poem highlights this
contrast:
38 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 38
THE ENCLOSED GARDEN WITH THE THE ROMANTIC CHASM WITH THE
PLEASURE-DOME AT THE CENTRE FOUNTAIN AND THE WOMAN
control lack of control
a civilized garden the wildness of nature
safety danger and violence
the secular life the “holy,” enchanted life
pleasure sexual passion
social organization solitude
(necessary for decrees)
cultural creation natural “creation” (the fountain
(the pleasure-dome) bursting from the ground)
A psychologist would recognize that Kubla’s task of making his own
world—creating a protected human space within a given natural set-
ting—is one that most of us need to accomplish in the process of
growing up. She would probably point out that although Kubla’s
achievement seems effective, the “ancestral voices prophesying war”
suggest that some problems remain unresolved. She would also see
that Coleridge’s imagined visit to paradise (in the last verse-para-
graph) is connected with an inspiring woman, with a feeling of exal-
tation, and with feeding—a combination suggesting the earliest bond
between a child and his mother. Is this state essentially a regression to
infancy?
If the professor giving the course were a reader-response critic, he
would say that the best way into the poem would be through the
actual experiences of individual students sitting down to read the
poem. He would ask such questions as the following: “Did you find
the poem interesting or boring? Which attracts you more, the
pleasure-dome or the mighty fountain? What does the ‘lifeless ocean’
suggest to you? Does the poem settle the problem that it raises about
containing natural energy?” This professor would put the poem in the
context of the life of the reader (and not the life of the author) and
ask, “How does this poem relate to the most important concerns in
your life?”
When we see how these three hypothetical professors would pro-
ceed, we are faced with the problem that we have three experts, all
with good credentials, who disagree fundamentally about how to read
the poem. They are asking different questions about it, and they are
surrounding it with very different kinds of knowledge. The first uses a
lot of biographical information about the author (material found in
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 39
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 39
Coleridge’s letters and notebooks, for instance); the second brings
her knowledge of psychology; and the third connects the poem with
the life-histories of the students in the class. Sometimes this variation
is called “the problem of approaches” in that each professor has a par-
ticular approach. But this term introduces a misleading metaphor
because it suggests that the three professors are all approaching the
same thing—as though they were coming to a house in the country
from different directions, the first from across a meadow, the second
through the woods, and the third in a car on a paved road. This image
implies that once they get to the house, they will agree about what it
is. But this is not the situation with the poem: these three professors
actually see different poems when they look at the same printed text.
A better analogy would be three people talking about a fourth whom
they all know well. In the process they discover that the fourth is some-
what different with each of them, partly because different aspects of
her personality are brought out by each of the three individuals when
they are with her.
The problem of ideologies
In the long run, it is better to call this “the problem of ideologies” than
“the problem of approaches.” In essence an ideology is a system of
thought, or a “world-view,” which an individual acquires (usually uncon-
sciously) while growing up. An ideology determines what you think
matters in life, how you distinguish between good people and evil peo-
ple, what you think “polite” behaviour is, how you see male and female
roles in life, and a host of other things. You can visualize your ideology
as a grid, or a set of glasses, through which you see the world (as in the
diagram on the next page).1
Each ideology draws attention to certain features of the world,
and hides or causes you to ignore others. The three professors
described above have different ideologies, and so the courses they
would give on the Romantic poets would be very different from one
another. The historical critic draws attention to the author’s life and
ignores the reader’s life; the reader-response critic pays little atten-
tion to the author, and concentrates on the reader. The psychologi-
cal critic is concerned with very general human needs and patterns
of experience.
The effects of ideologies can be seen at their clearest in religious
conflicts. Imagine a woman raised in a thoroughly Christian culture,
in which all the people she encounters are practising Christians. It
would be natural for her to assume that everyone is Christian and that
Christianity provides the truth about the world. Now imagine this
40 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 40
woman visiting a Buddhist monastery in Japan. If she could talk to the
monks, she would quickly become aware that this group of people was
not operating with her ideology. They would not be impressed with
the authority of the Bible or especially interested in the life of Jesus.
They would not understand what was meant by the idea of a God who
took a personal interest in individual human beings. Furthermore,
suppose that the Christian did not reject this new community out-
right, but instead decided to follow its way of life, and that she began
to appreciate things in this world of which she was ignorant before—
practices such as meditation, the martial arts, or flower-arrangement
—that are not important in a Christian culture. Eventually she would
begin to see that, to some extent, her ideology creates the world she
lives in.
One principal reason for studying theory at the same time as liter-
ature is that it forces you to deal consciously with the problem of
ideologies. If you don’t pay attention to theory, or if the professor
doesn’t mention it, that is like saying, “I’m going to ignore the fact
that there are Buddhists in the world, and pretend that only Chris-
tians exist.” This attitude might be considered irresponsible; at the
very least it could leave you with a large gap in your awareness of the
world, which could hamper your life later on.
One result of thinking about ideologies is that it introduces a lot of
uncertainty into literary studies. It raises the question, “What know-
ledge is most worth having?” No one has found a broadly accepted
answer to this question. Many students don’t want to cope with this
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 41
a historical critic
a reader-response
critic
historicist ideology
reader-response
ideology
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 41
kind of uncertainty early on in their university careers: they want “the
truth”; they want “certainty.” And there are understandable reasons
for wanting to find the truth. Feeling you know the truth provides a
lot of emotional security. Unfortunately, in this case “the truth” simply
does not exist. If you are going to live intelligently in the modern
world, you have to recognize that there are conflicting ideologies, and
that there is no simple, direct access to the truth. Everyone must have
met people who have chosen to embrace a very limited “truth,” and
(as a result) have avoided some complex but important areas of
human experience.
So in a sense the “simple, plain truth,” about Coleridge’s poetry,
for instance, is just not available. There are many truths, and the one
you find will depend partly on the ideology you start with. If this sit-
uation sounds disturbingly complex at the outset, it can later turn
out to be both exciting and challenging. It means you can take your
own part in the struggles for power between different ideologies. It
helps you to discover elements of your own ideology and to under-
stand why you hold certain values unconsciously. It means that no
authority can impose a “truth” on you in a dogmatic way and insist
that you accept it. If some authority does try, you can challenge that
“truth” in a powerful way by asking what ideology it is based on. It
means that you can choose which groups you want to belong to more
effectively, because you become aware of how groups are held
together by ideologies. Theory is subversive because it puts authority
in question.
Theory as a map
Another way of thinking about theory in relation to a particular Eng-
lish course is to say that it can provide a map for what you are going
to do in the course. If you are going to spend a month travelling in
Europe, you need a map—to see how the various countries are related
to one another geographically, and to see how you can get from one
city to another. That doesn’t mean that you only want to look at the
map, or that the map is the reality. You carry a map with you because
it is useful, and because it allows you to get the information you want
quickly. Similarly, in studying literature we don’t want to concentrate
on theory exclusively. Most of our time will be taken up with reading
works of literature, and with writing and talking about them. But
when we are unsure of what we are doing, or confused about the fun-
damental aims of the course, or need to look at the bigger picture, we
take out the map.
42 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 42
The bias of this book: a reader-centred view of theory
The problem of ideologies arises because it is impossible for anyone
to see the world objectively. What you see is coloured by your ideo-
logy. You can tell when teachers are aware of this problem; they will
often make an effort to say what ideology they are using, or what their
background is, which has led them to see things in a particular way.
My presentation of literary theory is not meant to be objective, so I
would like to briefly indicate what my main concerns are. This book
presents a particular view of literature and literary theory; I think
readers will benefit from knowing the assumptions that lie behind
that view.
When literature is read, three main entities are involved: the writer,
the text, and the reader. This is a simplification of a more complex sit-
uation (publishers and booksellers also play a role, for instance), but
it corresponds to many people’s intuitions about reading. The author
and the reader meet in the text. With poems or novels that mean a lot
to us, we often have the feeling of being in a direct and intimate rela-
tion with the author, through the medium of the text. We could illus-
trate this with the diagram below.
We could say initially that there are three different ideologies of liter-
ary criticism, each one emphasizing one of the items in this diagram.
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 43
writer reader
reading
text
writer
feeling of connexion
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 43
Author-centred criticism is largely concerned with works of literature as
expressions of the author’s state of mind. Above all, this kind of criticism
places emphasis on understanding what was going on in the author’s
mind, and what her intention was in writing the work. The meaning of
the work is what it meant to the author. Often this kind of criticism is
inspired by a great admiration for the author, who is seen as someone
we would be fascinated to meet. In this approach, there is a certain dis-
regard for both the text and the reader. The text (a poem, for instance)
is often supplemented with biographical information so the critic can
determine its meaning. The reader is hardly considered at all—his or
her feelings, background, intuitions, and sex are made to seem irrele-
vant in comparison with the author’s experience. The role of the reader
is to sense and appreciate the author’s state of mind. Often critics opera-
ting with this ideology like to see themselves as “transparent”: they pro-
vide a window on the work they are discussing. They clear away obstacles
and try to let us see the author as clearly as possible.
Text-centred criticism tends to ignore both the author and the
reader in order to concentrate on “the words on the page.” This kind
of criticism focuses on subjects such as regularities and patterns that
can be seen in the text (rhythm in poetry, and image-clusters in prose,
for instance), and on how a poem solves the problems it raises. Some
structuralist analyses of literature fall into this category. Text-centred
criticism goes along with a strong feeling of reverence for individual
works of art, the kind of feeling nourished by the Aesthetic movement
of the 1890s, for instance. If the author is considered in a text-centred
analysis, it is not the actual, historical author, but the author who can
be constructed from the evidence in the text. The reader is conceived
of in an idealized way, as a kind of perfect receiver of the text.
Reader-centred criticism begins with the experiences of individuals
when they read texts. A reader-response critic would maintain that a
poem does not exist in a real sense as “words on the page.” It takes on
an existence only when it enters the mind of someone reading it. Fur-
thermore, it can never enter the mind of a reader in a neutral, objec-
tive way, because we all give slightly different meanings to the indivi-
dual words we read, and we put them together in different ways. The
way you interpret the word “mother” will have a lot to do with your
experience of your own mother—modified, to some extent, by your
knowledge of how other mothers behave. So reader-response critics
are especially interested in accounts of how people have actually
responded to texts they have read. If I am a reader-response critic, my
idea of what a poem means will be built up from reports by readers on
how they have felt about and understood a poem, and from my own
experience of reading the poem.
44 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 44
A state of ideological conflict exists between these three types of
critic, the author-centred, text-centred, and reader-centred. This book
is based on the assumptions of reader-centred criticism. Here is why.
If literature is worth studying in university, and worth spending a
number of years on, that is primarily because of the experiences and
skills it imparts to the people who do the reading and studying.
Reading literature should feel like an important and rewarding activ-
ity to the students who are engaged with it; otherwise it isn’t worth
doing. I feel that the best way to achieve this is to pay a lot of attention
to individual responses, and I think this provides the best basis for
developing connections between different readers in the classroom.
When we draw on our responses, we connect with our own immediate
experience, and we can talk about how works of literature influence
our own lives.
Author-centred critics and historical critics dominate the literary
profession. This is illustrated by the fact that most university courses
are defined in terms of the authors or the historical period covered. A
lot of excellent work is influenced by this literary ideology. My main
objection to it, when it dominates English departments, is that it tends
to be authoritarian and to maintain that the meaning of a work of lit-
erature is objective and external to the reader. This attitude often
squashes readers and their responses, in the interests of “being faithful
to the author’s intention” or “being accurate historically.” But litera-
ture does not live through accuracy about the past; it lives through the
enthusiasm of readers.
Text-centred critics are useful in making us look carefully at the
words on the page in front of us. I think, however, that they make a
fundamental error if they assume that they can interpret these words
objectively. Whenever interpretation is taking place, there is someone
(a particular person) interpreting, and that person has his or her own
agenda and ideology, which play a major role in constructing that par-
ticular interpretation of what is read. If we want to understand what
happens when literature is read, we have to take account of the sub-
jective element in the process.
One of the main achievements of literary theory in the past thirty
years has been to direct more attention to what the reader experi-
ences. A certain amount of criticism today is concerned with how
readers make sense of books, and why some books are highly valued
by a lot of readers. So my presentation of literary theory in this book
is coloured by my concern with the details of how readers interact
with books and with each other. An author-centred critic and a text-
centred critic would each give a very different account of contempo-
rary literary theory, and I think it would be a less useful one.
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 45
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 45
A literary theory about reader-response and the curriculum
To conclude this chapter I want to provide an example of a literary the-
ory and show how it can shed light on what happens in university Eng-
lish classes. Books can be arranged in many different ways. In encyclo-
pedias, books are discussed under the author’s name, and authors are
listed alphabetically. (An alphabetical arrangement is an arbitrary one;
the arrangement tells you nothing about the books.) Author-centred
critics often classify books by their historical period, so that Sidney and
Shakespeare go with Jonson and Donne. Text-centred critics often clas-
sify works according to genre or style, so that Shakespeare can be
grouped with Shaw, and Donne with Dylan Thomas. The system of
grouping that this particular theory proposes is based on reader
response, and it applies, in the first instance, to your own experience of
reading books.
I would like you now to think of ten books you have read, and put
each book in one of three categories, according to your response to
it. What I call response #1 is one of interest, involvement, and perhaps
fascination, but the key element is the feeling that you want to read the
book again—that it would give you pleasure to reread it. You may not
have the time, but if you feel the desire to reread it, then the book
goes into category #1.
Response #2 occurs when you feel, after finishing a book, that you
might want to reread it if you were able to take a course related to it.
After finishing Tolstoy’s Anna Karenina, you might feel moderately
interested by the novel but know that for it to become really involving
for you, you would need to gather some other information: a knowl-
edge of nineteenth-century Russia, familiarity with other books by Tol-
stoy and other Russian authors of the period, and perhaps some
knowledge of Tolstoy’s life and how it is transmuted to become the life
of the hero, Levin.
Response #3 is boredom. You feel it is unlikely that you will ever,
under any circumstances, be really interested in reading the book
again. Of course it is hard to be sure about this, but nevertheless we
often have that feeling, and it feels quite different from a #2 response.
Often we don’t finish books that inspire a #3 response.
The interest of this literary theory lies in what it allows us to say
(and perceive) about courses in literature.
I believe that literary education depends crucially on the student
having a #1 response to a number of books, and that courses should
be designed with this in mind. We could say that books that arouse a
#1 response in a lot of readers are alive and well on their own, as it
were; they don’t need a support system. Books that elicit a #2 response
46 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 46
usually need to be kept alive in a metaphorical museum—a university
course, for instance. Without a supporting environment such as this,
they would not be read or appreciated very much. Books that cause a
#3 response are dead, and it is very difficult to revive them.
It is a fair description of some university courses that the books
assigned are ones to which the professor has a #1 response (and so
she rereads them eagerly), but they cause a #3 response in the stu-
dents. A course like this functions perfectly well according to the uni-
versity regulations: lectures are given, essays and exams are written,
and grades are assigned. The professor finds the process interesting,
perhaps, but the educational value from the students’ point of view is
very limited.
Although most people would agree that there is little point in put-
ting books that elicit a #3 response on courses, there is an interesting
debate as to whether it is better to use #1 books or #2 books. Some
professors would argue that #1 books can survive on their own, and
that it is better to concentrate on books that evoke a #2 response. This
approach has the advantage of putting students through the experi-
ence of not being able to understand a book, learning the material on
the course, and then being able to understand the book in the end.
The feeling of “growth of understanding” is a moving and powerful
experience for many students, and some would say it is the essence of
a university education in literature.
Although this view has a certain validity, I feel that the most lively
courses, and those with the most long-lasting effects, are based on
books that evoke a #1 response on first reading. Students are willing
to talk about these books in class, and they generate a lot more energy
than #2 books. A class working with #1 books is self-propelled; a class
working with #2 books is always waiting for the professor to explain
things—and there is always the possibility that, even after everything
is explained, the book may remain relatively unengaging for the stu-
dent. In a commentary on the myth of Parsifal, a psychiatrist has writ-
ten,
It is important to remember that a myth is a living thing and exists
within every person. You will get the true, living form of the myth if
you can see it as it spins away inside yourself. The most rewarding
thing you can do with this or any myth is to see how it is alive in your
own psychological structure.2
In a sense this is also true of books that generate a deep and lasting
response in the reader. When you read something that is important to
you, it does “spin away inside yourself.” I think that a #1 response is an
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 47
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 47
even more powerful spur to growth and learning than a #2 response.
You want to understand the work better because it involves you in
some profound way.
Grouping responses to books into these three kinds sheds light on
the recurring problem of whether you should read a book before or
after going to the classes on it. With a #2 book, you are better to hear
the lectures first; they may allow you to get more out of your reading.
But with a #1 book it makes more sense to read it first, so you can
enjoy the freshness of your own response and use it in discussion in
class.
This literary theory takes the form of a “classification of responses.”
Typically, literary theories propose typologies, or ways of classifying
things. It is not necessary to decide whether a particular theory is right
or wrong. The test is whether or not it is useful, whether it helps us
understand our experience, and define our goals, better. If this the-
ory allows you to explain the difference between interesting and dull
university courses, then, as Brecht says, you will want to keep it in your
pocket as long as you are studying literature.
Canon-formation: why do some books become classics?
We can use the distinction between the three kinds of response to look
at a central issue in literary studies, and one that is rarely considered in
the undergraduate curriculum. Each year thousands of books are writ-
ten and published. A tiny number of these books will continue to be
read a hundred years from now, and (if present conditions continue)
most of these books will be on university courses. Who is involved in the
selection process which creates the canon of “great literature”? How do
they choose? For what reasons?
We can ask these questions about the course on the English Roman-
tic poets discussed earlier. In this course six authors are studied. It
would be fair to say that the works of these authors form the canon of
English poetry in the Romantic period. But hundreds of other poets
published works in Britain between 1795 and 1825. Why do Blake,
Wordsworth, Coleridge, Shelley, Keats, and Byron continue to be read
in university courses, while all the rest are more or less ignored?
Students don’t normally ask this question, for a good reason. If you
don’t know anything about the poets writing in this period, you have
no grounds for criticizing the instructor’s list of required readings.
You have to take what is proposed to you on faith. But questions about
canon-formation are nonetheless interesting to ask, because they
make you notice a hidden but important side of what makes some
authors “great.”
48 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 48
Here are four different ways in which a professor might account for
her choice of texts. The first is, “We study these poets because they
wrote the best poems in the Romantic period.” Notice that this answer
assumes the “best poems” can be discovered by some relatively objec-
tive means. It is almost as though some authority had chosen the
poems and then made an announcement about it. (Think of the con-
troversy—and lobbying—surrounding the choice of the best film of
the year at the Academy Awards. Why should choosing the best
Romantic poets be any less complicated?) Notice also that the profes-
sor occupies a position of authority in this answer. She knows which
are the best poems, the student doesn’t, and so there can be no argu-
ment about it. The student hasn’t a leg to stand on.
The second account of canon-formation runs as follows: “We study
these poets because in the general opinion of specialists in this field
they are the most rewarding poets to study.” This answer identifies a
source of authority (there has been a collective decision on the part
of a group of English professors), and the decision is not timeless.
The list would have been different in 1880: Blake would not have
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 49
The Role of the Bookseller in Canon-formation
(© The New Yorker Collection 1983 Arnie Levin from cartoonbank.com.
All rights reserved).
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 49
been included then. This explanation also implies that there could be
changes in the future, and that decisions about the canon are social
or political ones. If you could persuade a few thousand English pro-
fessors that Felicia Hemans was a better poet than Percy Bysshe Shel-
ley, she might take the place of Shelley on the reading list.3
A third answer is, “We read these poets because I like them best,”
which makes the professor sound more egocentric but at least clearly
identifies the source of the decision. This explanation suggests that
you might be able to argue with her, and the reading-list might
change as a result.
A fourth explanation is, “I teach these poets because I find they are
the ones students profit from and enjoy the most.” Here again there
is a social process at work; this answer implies that the professor’s per-
ception of students’ responses plays an important role in establishing
the reading-list.
In any one of these cases, students might feel frustrated with the
whole question of canon-formation because they are not able to make
suggestions until the end of the course. And at that point, why bother?
The answer is that in studying literature all of us inherit what is
passed down to us by those who have come before. Almost all of our
reading consists of literature selected, from a vast number of available
works, by other people. It is healthy (in my opinion) to want to take
part in that process of selection, even in a small way. The process itself
is extremely complicated, involving writers (and all their helpers),
publishers, reviewers, professors, students, booksellers, and the gen-
eral reading public. But we can develop an approximate idea of what
happens.
It is reasonable to assume that most professors teach certain poets
because they find them exciting and rewarding to read and discuss. If
they didn’t, they would drop them off the course, and in time a dif-
ferent group of poets would be selected to form the canon. Accord-
ing to this view of canon-formation, books are put on courses for rea-
sons that are essentially similar to, and comparable with, a student’s
own experience of literature—that is, because they are enjoyable or
interesting to read. This method of selection provides a basis for dia-
logue between students and professors. If students don’t like a work,
they can at least ask why it excited the professor enough for it to be
put on the course list. The possibility of an exchange like this makes
literature more accessible: it provides a human explanation for “great
literature,” and it creates a link between the students’ responses to
works of literature and the responses of the professor.
On the other hand, a professor may be more passive in his selection
of course texts. He may think, “I don’t like Shelley very much, but he
50 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 50
is a major Romantic poet, so I need to teach him.” The students may
also have a #3 response to Shelley but be hesitant about saying so. As
a result a poet can remain a part of the canon long after the reasons
for his belonging there have disappeared. This shows the inertia in
the process of canon-formation.
What this account of canon-formation suggests is that the student
should challenge the professor over the inclusion of Shelley, and the
professor should challenge the status of Shelley as a canonized
author. (It is often boring being taught a book that the professor does
not like.) But you have to understand the process of canon-formation
in order to attempt this kind of change. It should be admitted that a
certain kind of loss occurs when you begin to understand how works
become canonized: a loss of the glamour that surrounds “great
authors,” who seem to inhabit a realm that is almost divine and who
possess the magical power of creating great art. You begin to under-
stand that “great art” is given that status because of the approval of a
complex social network of professors, publishers, and readers, and
you also see that when an author gains canonical status, this does not
happen because he has some quasi-divine powers, or lives apart in a
world of geniuses. It happens because groups of people support his
candidature, to use a political analogy. This may make an author’s
inclusion in the canon seem less glorious, but it allows us to partici-
pate in the process by which he is canonized.
Why study theory now?
In any group in which talking is the main activity, it is possible to draw
a useful distinction between content and process. “Content” refers to
the information being discussed, while “process” refers to the human
interactions involved in the course of the discussion. A student may
volunteer to provide an account of Coleridge’s relation with his wife,
ostensibly to clarify one of his poems. That is the content. The student
might, at the same time (and perhaps unconsciously), want to show
that he is serious about his work or that he identifies strongly with the
professor. That is the process. In university classes we usually pay
attention to the content but ignore the process—even when the
process is significant.
One reason for studying literary theory is that it calls attention to
issues of process, such as how authors and texts are treated, how pro-
fessors and students treat one another, and how the professor distin-
guishes between excellent and merely satisfactory work in the course.
(Usually this distinction is not just a matter of the student “working
hard”; it involves knowing the ideology of the professor and what seem
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 51
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 51
to her to be the important, valuable questions to ask about the content
of the course.) Literary theory raises those issues that are often left
submerged beneath the mass of information contained in the course,
and it also asks questions about how the institution of great literature
works. What makes a “great work” great? Who makes the decisions
about what will be taught? Why are authors grouped into certain his-
torical periods? The answers to fundamental questions like these are
often unarticulated assumptions on the part of both professors and
students.
Socrates said that the unexamined life is not worth living. The anal-
ogous statement about university courses is that “the unexamined
course is not worth taking.” Literary theory at its best helps us realize
what we are really doing when we study literature.
Notes
1 I am using the word “ideology” in a neutral sense and assuming that
everyone has and uses an ideology, whether or not they are conscious of
it. Often the word is used in a pejorative sense, to indicate a set of ideas
that falsify or distort the way the world “really” is. In my view, no one can
see the world as it “really” is, in an unbiased way; we inevitably acquire
an ideology while we grow up. We can abandon our ideology and adopt
a different one, or we can modify our ideology, but we cannot escape
having an ideology. For most people most of the time, and for everyone
some of the time, we are not conscious of being affected by our ideol-
ogy. Although I don’t think ideologies can be evaluated objectively, I
personally find some ideologies much more attractive than others.
2 Robert A. Johnson, He: Understanding Masculine Psychology, 2nd ed. (New
York: Harper Row, 1989) x.
3 Felicia Hemans (1793-1835) was “commercially the most successful
English-language poet of the nineteenth century and, commercially, the
most successful woman poet ever” (Peter Cochrane, Times Literary Supple-
ment, 21 July 1995, 13). Her early death is mourned by Wordsworth in
his “Extempore Effusion upon the Death of James Hogg.”
Questions to help you check your understanding of this chapter
1 When a historical critic and a reader-response critic try to find the
meaning of a work of literature, they ask very different questions about
it. How do these questions differ?
2 What is an ideology, and how does it affect how you perceive the world?
3 What is a literary canon, and what are some of the factors influencing
the selection of books that form the canon?
52 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 52
Suggestions for further reading
These four short books cover many of the same topics as this book. All three
have useful bibliographies.
Peter Barry, Beginning Theory: An Introduction to Literary and Cultural Theory,
2nd ed. (Manchester and New York: Manchester University Press, 2002).
Terry Eagleton, Literary Theory: An Introduction, 2nd ed. (Oxford: Blackwell,
1996). Eagleton is the leading Marxist critic in Britain today. His account
of literary theory is often unreliable, and his ideology is very much in evi-
dence, but the book is lively and has been widely used.
Raman Selden and Peter Widdowson, A Reader’s Guide to Contemporary Liter-
ary Theory, 3rd ed. (Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 1993).
Roger Webster, Studying Literary Theory: An Introduction (London: Edward
Arnold, 1990).
There are many dictionaries and encyclopedias dealing with literary theory
and criticism. I have found these two particularly helpful. The first is short
and up-to-date and has brief and often witty entries; the second is a big vol-
ume, with entries up to 2,000 words long.
Chris Baldick, ed., The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Literary Terms (Oxford,
1990).
Irena Makaryk, ed., Encyclopedia of Contemporary Literary Theory: Approaches,
Scholars, Terms (University of Toronto Press, 1993).
Other useful books:
Roland Barthes, Criticism and Truth, trans. and ed. Katrine Pilcher Keune-
man (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1987). This is a short,
polemical book, in which Barthes defends the practice of re-interpreting
literature through methods unknown at the time it was written (for exam-
ple, by producing a Freudian reading of Racine). It is a clear statement
about what came to be known as la nouvelle critique in France, which was
based on structuralism.
John M. Ellis, The Theory of Literary Criticism: A Logical Analysis (Berkeley and
Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1974). This book presents
clearly and forcefully the view that literature functions in many different
contexts, not just the context in which it was written, and that it is a defin-
ing feature of literature that it is still of interest when its original context
has disappeared.
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 53
ch01-pt1.qxd 28/03/2007 2:15 PM Page 53
CHAPTER TWO
Monologue and Dialogue in the Classroom
In a class of thirty or more students, it is likely that the professor will
spend a good deal of her time lecturing. In a class of a hundred or
more, lecturing would seem to be the only possible method of teach-
ing. In this chapter I want to suggest that there is an inherent con-
tradiction between lecturing and education, and to propose that the
most important skill that an arts student should take away from four
years in a literature program, in particular, is the ability to engage in
meaningful dialogue with others. This subject might seem to be a
side-issue in an introduction to literary theory, but it turns out that
the idea of dialogue is crucial to some of the main issues addressed
by literary theory.
In a letter to the Times Literary Supplement in 1984, a reader pre-
sented a powerful argument for a fundamental change in our edu-
cational philosophy. He maintained that
... for too long academics have unthinkingly accepted that the
proper basic intellectual aim of inquiry is to improve knowledge
and technology. This philosophy of knowledge is, however, dan-
gerously, harmfully irrational. Knowledge and technology are
important; but what the modern world desperately needs is the
capacity to resolve its global problems and conflicts more cooper-
atively and rationally than it does at present.1
This argument maintains that our greatest need now is to learn to
live peacefully with one another, and that this depends on finding
ways of discussing problems that will lead to acceptable solutions.
Universities, the author of this letter feels, should train people in
methods of cooperative discussion and thought, instead of simply
producing more and more specialized knowledge. I think he is right
in what he says about the global situation, and I would add that, in
my opinion, much of our satisfaction in life depends on our skills in
connecting with other people—skills of dialogue, we might call
them.
The problems with monologue
By the time they have completed a year at university, students have
had a lot of experience with monologue, given that lecturing is the
basic method of instruction in most first-year courses. Some lectures
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 54
54
ch02.qxd 17/03/2007 10:24 AM Page 54
seem to imply that the student’s mind is like an empty barrel, and the
purpose of the lectures is to fill it up with information. Often, though
not always, lectures are fairly boring, and there is a good reason for
this: when information flows in a single direction (from professor to
student), no consideration is given to what the student is experien-
cing—whether the information is having any effect, whether it is
coming too quickly or too slowly, whether it fits into the patterns of
thoughts and feelings in the student’s mind, or whether it answers
any particular need or desire in the listener. Going to a lecture is
quite like reading a book, with the disadvantage that you can’t stop
reading, or skip passages, when you want to.2
Many of our conversations with others are really a succession of
monologues. These can be quite interesting because of the alterna-
tion of speakers and the chance for everyone to speak from time to
time. Sometimes, though, a compulsive talker will give you a ten-
minute lecture on some subject of little or no interest to you, and
usually this becomes boring just like some university lectures. You
aren’t being treated like a person with individual interests and con-
cerns; you are simply being used as an audience.
Why dialogue is interesting
Dialogue begins when we are able to intervene and redirect or mod-
ify what another person is saying. If two people are interested in the
same subject, and they are willing to learn from each other, an excit-
ing process can occur. The first person outlines his or her view of the
subject (at an appropriate length—good dialogue depends on sens-
ing how the other is responding) and implicitly asks, “What do you
think of my account of this? Can you give me a better account? If you
can, then I will adopt it.”3 This is an invitation for the second person
to add his or her perceptions to the common pool of ideas.
In a full-blooded dialogue, each speech of the conversation adds
something new to the shared view of the subject, and the feeling of
growth can be very rewarding. You realize that two people in conver-
sation are more than the sum of the two individuals: together they
are able to do things, and make discoveries, which neither could
achieve alone. If the subject under discussion is of interest to you,
then the process can be fascinating. In my opinion, the experience
of dialogue is one of the finest things that university education in the
humanities has to offer. It can give feelings of wholeness, concentra-
tion, and deep connection with another person. The concept of dia-
logue can also be a paradigm for other activities; it is not so much an
idea as an experience that can be charged with emotion and the feel-
ing of discovery.
Monologue and Dialogue in the Classroom 55
ch02.qxd 17/03/2007 10:24 AM Page 55
Dialogues vary in quality, of course, and some are more satisfying
than others. If the subject being discussed doesn’t interest you par-
ticularly, then the intensity will be low, although the exchange may
still be a pleasant one. With some people you share a lot of back-
ground, and so you have common reference points and can commu-
nicate easily; with others, who have very different life experiences,
communication may be almost impossible. Different people use lan-
guage in different ways, and this may enhance or impede the inter-
change. Some people talk too much for you, some too little.
The British critic and novelist David Lodge has said, “Conversation
is like playing tennis with a ball made of Krazy Putty that keeps com-
ing back over the net in a different shape.”4 Racquet sports present a
good analogy for dialogue. For the game to be engaging, the part-
ners have to be willing to make an effort and be reasonably well-
matched to each other. If there is a serious imbalance in ability, the
game will be less satisfying. This is also true of dialogue.
In general in the humanities today dialogue is not highly valued. For
one thing, it is risky and open-ended. You have to be willing to expose
yourself to engage in real dialogue, and you cannot predict where it
will lead you. An eminent critic, William Empson, has said, “The object
of life, after all, is not to understand things, but to maintain one’s
defences and equilibrium, and live as well as one can; it is not only
maiden aunts who are placed like this.”5 Many professors like to be in
control, and so dialogue may seem unattractive to them. Besides, the
university milieu is obsessed with writing books and articles, and these
are usually monologic forms of discourse. If you think you are trying
to develop knowledge, then you probably feel it should be permanent,
objective, and encodable in a book, which will last forever. A powerful
myth in universities is that knowledge is eternal—although if we look
at what counts as knowledge in successive historical periods, we can see
that it is usually provisional and often superseded by new knowledge.
The German artist Albrecht Dürer acknowledged this when he wrote,
“I shall let the little I have learnt go forth into the day in order that
someone better than I may guess the truth, and in his work may prove
and rebuke my error. At this I shall rejoice that I was yet a means
whereby this truth has come to light.”6
In spite of academic distaste for it, dialogue has a distinguished his-
tory. Plato’s dialogues present an early example of the form,
although they do not seem very open-ended because Socrates always
has the upper hand. The tradition of dialogue—that you should be
able to present your views on a subject clearly and succinctly, and
then be willing to listen to criticisms of them—is much stronger in
philosophy than in literary studies, perhaps because of the example
of Plato. Of course, the ability to write riveting dialogue is important
56 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch02.qxd 17/03/2007 10:24 AM Page 56
in many plays and novels too; as examples consider the exchanges
between Birkin and Ursula in D.H. Lawrence’s Women in Love or
between Antony and Cleopatra in Shakespeare’s play.
Dialogue in the classroom
Is it reasonable to expect dialogue to take place in the classroom? I
think the answer is “yes,” especially for classes with less than thirty stu-
dents; but aiming for dialogue sets a high standard, for both profes-
sors and students, and the attempt can turn out to be frustrating. It
is well worth making the effort, though, if only because the alterna-
tive (lecturing) is such a poor pedagogical method for most students.
If a professor tries to generate a dialogue in class about a controver-
sial part of a book (such as the section on ghosts in Zen and the Art of
Motorcycle Maintenance, in which the author, Robert Pirsig, maintains
that scientific laws are as intangible as spirits in Amerindian culture),
the class will generally divide into two groups: those who have read the
section and thought about it, and those who haven’t. The students in
the second group essentially become spectators in the class; they aren’t
equipped to take part. The real participants are the students who are
moved by the book to say something about the issue. Dialogue is liable
to fail if there are not enough participants. The non-participants may
be willing to listen to what the professor has to say, but they are nor-
mally much less interested in the opinions of their peers.
There are a number of practices that can help or hinder dialogue:
Practices that help dialogue:
1. Identifying the common interests of the group.
2. Finding problems that need attention.
3. Listening when other people speak.
4. Encouraging others to speak, or restraining yourself, in order to
balance participation.
5. Identifying ideological differences between members of the group.
6. Restating a point so its meaning is clear to everyone.
7. Emphasizing a willingness to negotiate. Distinguishing between
what is negotiable for you and what is sacred (and therefore not
negotiable).
8. Asking, or explaining, why a certain process is occurring in the
class.
9. Identifying what is happening when a strange interaction occurs
(for example, when one person tries to annihilate another).
10. Zooming in or out on an issue to get the scale right for the dis-
cussion that is in progress.
Monologue and Dialogue in the Classroom 57
ch02.qxd 17/03/2007 10:24 AM Page 57
11. Finding an analogy, even a bizarre one, that helps explain some-
thing (e.g., a conversation is like a game of tennis).
12. Pointing out a passage in the book being read that illustrates a
point well.
Practices that hinder dialogue:
1. Monologue.
2. Engaging in private dialogue, between students or between a
student and the professor.
3. Drawing on private knowledge (of a book, play, film, and so on)
too much, without making that knowledge available to the rest
of the class (e.g., by telling the story).
4. False objectifying (that is, expressing feelings as objective facts
about the book or the world).
5. Projecting extremes onto other people (e.g., making their posi-
tion look ridiculous by taking it to an extreme that they would
not accept).
6. Offering your view and an absurd alternative.
7. Allowing an argumentum ad hominem (Latin for “the argument
against the person”; e.g., “Smith was an alcoholic, so his opinion
must be wrong,” when, in fact, his opinion might be correct).
8. Dropping cynical one-liners that can hurt other participants and
bring the conversation to an abrupt halt.
One of the greatest impediments to dialogue is the tendency of peo-
ple with too much knowledge to swamp others with their learning.
Professors are the most likely to do this, because they have spent
much of their lives gathering knowledge, but some students like
doing it as well. Dialogue can be enhanced by limiting discussion in
a particular class to a single text. This allows all the students to be
equally well prepared for the class.
If dialogue is a process that occurs between two people, polylogue
occurs when several people participate. The American critic Kenneth
Burke uses the model of what might go on in a seminar to shed light
on the way culture itself operates:
Imagine that you enter a parlor. You come late. When you arrive,
others have long preceded you, and they are engaged in a heated
discussion, a discussion too heated for them to pause and tell you
exactly what it is about. In fact, the discussion had already begun
long before any of them got there, so that no one present is quali-
fied to retrace for you all the steps that had gone before. You listen
for a while, until you decide that you have caught the tenor of the
58 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch02.qxd 17/03/2007 10:24 AM Page 58
argument; then you put in your oar. Someone answers; you answer
him; another comes to your defense; another aligns himself
against you.... However, the discussion is interminable. The hour
grows late, you must depart. And you do depart, with the discus-
sion still vigorously in process.7
Polylogue seems to be a good model for the processes by which an
academic field or a culture evolves, and it makes sense to try to
achieve an analogous polylogue in the classroom, because the effort
can help move the participants toward an understanding of how cul-
ture itself works.
Dialogism and the work of Mikhail Bakhtin
If you want to use the idea of dialogue as a basis for understanding
the world in a broad way, the work of the Russian thinker Mikhail
Bakhtin is very suggestive and illuminating. He was a student in St.
Petersburg during the Russian Revolution, suffered through the
major upheavals that followed it, and survived the years of repression
under Stalin. His major themes, articulated between 1924 and 1947,
could serve as an excellent introduction to many of the central issues
in literary theory since 1970.
The word “dialogism” has been coined to provide a label for
Bakhtin’s thinking about language, literature, and the way they are
embedded in social life. Unlike the structuralists, whose views we will
encounter in Chapter 6, Bakhtin saw language not as a system, but as
a series of particular, singular utterances, made by individual people
living in specific places at particular times. These utterances occur in
conversations or arguments between people, who don’t always agree.
So the meaning of what a certain person says on (for instance) Octo-
ber 24, 1917, depends on the conversation he is taking part in. The mean-
ing depends on the relation of the utterance to a particular ongoing
dialogue. Bakhtin felt that becoming a “self,” or knowing your “self,”
was achieved through being able to be an “author” in this situation,
that is, being able to speak out in dialogue with others who hold dif-
ferent opinions or beliefs.8
Bakhtin thought that even single words and sentences were inher-
ently dialogical. He felt that a word was a “shared territory,” shared
between the speaker and the listener, and that the meaning of a word
could change as the social experience of the speakers changed. Simi-
larly, a literary work can be thought of as a territory shared by the
writer and the reader. Its meaning will change when the work is read
in a later period, or in a culture different from the one in which it
was written. This view of the meaning of utterances (and works of lit-
Monologue and Dialogue in the Classroom 59
ch02.qxd 17/03/2007 10:24 AM Page 59
erature) is thoroughly relativistic. Another way of expressing
Bakhtin’s idea is to say that literature is like a figure on a background.
If the background changes, the meaning of the figure will also shift.9
This often happens when the listener or reader changes.
Among other things, Bakhtin’s experience of political life in post-
revolutionary Russia led him to draw a distinction between the dia-
logism of normal social life and the authoritarian attempt to impose
(or allow) only one way of thinking or speaking, which he called
“monologism.” Life is various and chaotic, and some groups strive to
impose order by allowing only one ideology to flourish. We could
transplant this distinction and use it to mark the difference between
authors who are authoritarian, dominating, and try to allow only one
point of view (their own), and other authors, like Shakespeare and
Dostoevsky, who normally incorporate several conflicting points of
view in their works, and don’t try to settle conflicts between their
characters in a final way. Bakhtin thought that the novel was the lit-
erary form that best allowed a variety of languages and ideologies to
be expressed, while the lyric poem and the epic were inherently
monological forms of literature.
E.M. Forster’s novel A Passage to India provides a good illustration
of the distinction between the monological and the dialogical, and
also shows the importance of the concept of “otherness” that is cru-
cial to this distinction. In Forster’s novel, the British administrators
in Chandrapore do their best to stay aloof from the native Indians
and pretend that they can live in a monological world—their own
“little England,” which they have constructed for themselves in India.
The Moslems are presented as being very different from the British
in their friendships and their social interaction, and the Hindu Brah-
min philosopher, Professor Godbole, is made to seem almost incom-
prehensible at times. But three of the British characters try to bridge
the gap and engage with the Moslems. The novel is made up of a
series of misinterpretations caused by cultural differences, inter-
spersed with a few moments of illumination when members of dif-
ferent cultures hear each other and are partially understood. One
message of the novel is highly Bakhtinian: although engaging in dia-
logue with people who are very different from yourself can be threat-
ening, it can enrich life greatly. Pursuing monologism, on the other
hand, can lead to the death of the soul.
Bakhtin had a strong sense of how we live in a sea of words, which
he called the logosphere (from the Greek for “word,” logos). Words
flow around and through us almost all the time, and they give
expression to our strongest desires and deepest fears. Monologism
drastically limits what we can say, and perhaps even what we can ima-
gine. Bakhtin especially valued the forces that upset rigid authority,
60 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch02.qxd 17/03/2007 10:24 AM Page 60
and one of these, he thought, was the spirit of carnival, in which aris-
tocrats and beggars exchange roles and costumes, and social rela-
tions appear in startlingly new perspectives. The freedom and libera-
tion of carnival, combatting the authority and decorum of
monologism, can be used to represent one of the primary tendencies
of literary criticism in the late twentieth century: the desire to subvert
the dominant ideology (whether it is seen as totalitarian, bourgeois,
capitalist, or patriarchal) and to develop new languages and new crit-
ical methodologies that will allow us to see the world in a new way,
and remake it so it corresponds more fully to the world we want to
live in.
For example, the impulses behind feminist literary criticism are
quite easy to grasp for most people: the recognition that women see
the world in a different way from most men, and speak differently
from them. Many women are therefore determined that these differ-
ences should not be ignored, marginalized, or squashed. A feminist
might say to a man, “You would see the world differently if you were
a woman.” A deconstructionist might say to another person, “You
would see the world differently if your language were altered in cer-
tain ways.” Multiculturalism makes a similar point about cultural dif-
ferences. Part of the challenge of living in the late twentieth and
early twenty-first centuries is that dialogue, and dialogism, has
become essential in an increasingly complex and diverse society. Dia-
logue (as opposed to monologue) in the classroom can help us pre-
pare to live more fully in our own times.
Notes
1 Nicholas Maxwell, Letter to the Times Literary Supplement, 7 Dec. 1984,
1415.
2 Some lecture courses are very successful for some students. Occasion-
ally this may be because the delivery by the professor exactly suits that
particular student. More often, I think, lecture courses succeed because
the professor has an entrancing aura for the student (because of his
knowledge, or the performance he is able to give, for instance) and the
student is enchanted. In Vico’s terms (see Chapter 9), a student experi-
encing this is in stage 1, a powerfully formative stage.
3 Karl Popper, “Towards a Rational Theory of Tradition,” Conjectures and
Refutations: The Growth of Scientific Knowledge, 4th ed. (London: Rout-
ledge and Kegan Paul, [1963] 1972) 127.
4 David Lodge, Small World (Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1985) 25.
5 William Empson, Seven Types of Ambiguity (Cleveland: World Publishing,
1955).
6 Quoted by Popper, 2.
Monologue and Dialogue in the Classroom 61
ch02.qxd 17/03/2007 10:24 AM Page 61
7 Kenneth Burke, The Philosophy of Literary Form: Studies in Symbolic Action
(Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1941) 110-11.
8 The English philosopher and historian R.G. Collingwood developed an
outlook similar to Bakhtin’s. He insisted that you cannot know the
meaning of a statement unless you know the question in the speaker’s
mind to which the statement was an answer. For his full position, which
has wide-ranging implications, see his brief but engaging Autobiography
(Oxford UP, 1939).
9 Another way in which the meanings of words can shift is when they are
“double-voiced,” i.e., spoken as though they had quotation marks around
them. We then recognize that they may carry a meaning other than the
one which the speaker intends, because someone else has said them in
another context, with another meaning. This usually happens in ironic
speech, but it may happen in more complex situations, too. If an older
person says to you, “To thine own self be true,” is he giving you sincere
advice, or is he consciously quoting the pompous, interfering Polonius,
in Hamlet, and so undermining his own counsel? An analogous problem
can occur for the speaker (as opposed to the listener) when, uncertain of
how to respond, he produces a phrase or a sentiment that he has heard
somewhere else before. Who, in this instance, is speaking? This intro-
duces the question, a fertile one for structuralists and post-structuralists,
of how (and to what degree) our selves are created by the language (and
the literature) which is there, in place, before we arrive on the scene,
and which (to some extent) structures our thoughts and our feelings.
Questions to check your understanding of this chapter
1 What makes monologue (or standard lecturing) a poor format for
teaching?
2 What, in your experience, is the most significant factor that inhibits dia-
logue in university teaching, when the class is small enough for dia-
logue to take place?
3 Explain what Bakhtin means when he says that to find the meaning of a
statement, you need to see it as embedded in a social situation.
4 In dialogism, why is it important—and difficult—to see “the other”?
5 Do you prefer monologistic or dialogistic works of literature? Why?
Suggestions for further reading
Michael Holquist, Dialogism: Bakhtin and His World (London and New York:
Routledge, 1990).
David Lodge, After Bakhtin: Essays in Fiction and Criticism (London and New
York: Routledge, 1990), especially the essay “After Bakhtin,” 87-99.
62 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch02.qxd 17/03/2007 10:24 AM Page 62
CHAPTER THREE
Literature and the Ideology of Science
We live in a world dominated by science. The reigning ideology in
North America makes most of us believe, even without our thinking
about it, that the most solid and real kind of knowledge is scientific
knowledge, and that the most important researchers work in scien-
tific fields. Most of us think that our lives have been greatly changed
by science, and that the quality of human civilization will continue to
improve because of new developments in science and technology.
The prestige of science has a powerful effect on literary studies.
Your view of literature will to some extent depend on your relation to
the sciences, and that makes it important to explore the ideology of
science early in this book. It is easy to feel, for instance, that in com-
parison to the knowledge given by science, the knowledge offered by
literature is “soft.” In most universities it is easy to switch from science
to arts, but if you want to move in the opposite direction you have to
go back and start at the beginning. Scientific knowledge is thought
to be “objective,” and therefore universally valid; knowledge in the
humanities has a subjective element, and so we cannot claim that it
is solid in the same way.
Within universities there is often a barrier between the arts and the
sciences, or between the arts and engineering. Students in one field
tend to pride themselves on being different from, and better than,
their counterparts in the other field. This is the result mainly of the
competitive nature of human groups, and the need many people
feel, especially in the first half of their lives, to be connected with a
superior group and manifestly not connected with a group consid-
ered inferior. The same tendencies can be seen in the conflicts
between other pairs, such as Catholics and Protestants, and capital-
ists and socialists.
As students of literature, we need to acknowledge the enormous
contributions of science and technology to our lives, and then exam-
ine the real differences and similarities between the arts and sci-
ences. The differences will give us a sense of what makes our field
unique, and the similarities allow us to identify some ways in which
literary studies could be pursued more effectively by scholars and by
students.
Although the rise of the sciences has marked our lives in funda-
mental ways, not all of these developments are attractive or desirable.
Our living conditions, our modes of communication and transporta-
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 63
63
ch03.qxd 17/03/2007 10:25 AM Page 63
tion, the quality of our health care, and the dissemination of great
works of art have all changed radically in the last hundred years,
thanks to new developments in science and technology, and for most
people these changes have improved life in significant ways. At the
same time, in the twentieth century we were able to engage in wars
that were unequalled in brutality and human suffering; we created
unattractive and sometimes dangerous working conditions in many
industries; our use of fossil fuels is changing our climate; and with
nuclear weapons we made the extermination of the human race a
possibility.
The prestige of science is largely based on these changes, and even
the changes for the worse are impressive because of their scale. But
it is interesting to consider areas in which science has had little effect,
and problems science has failed to solve. How do we relate to our
friends? How do we express our feelings? How do we choose whether
to marry, or have children? Why do half the first marriages in North
America end in divorce, and why are half the children in our schools
being raised by only one parent? How should children be raised?
Why is there so much drug abuse? What ideology should we live by?
What are the claims of the religious life on us? What are our obliga-
tions to other people in society, both at home and around the world,
and especially to those who live under terrible conditions of famine,
sickness, or exploitation?
Some of these areas have been affected by scientific and techno-
logical progress: birth control has influenced how marriages work,
and friendships can be conducted over great distances in ways that
weren’t possible two hundred years ago. But we still have to make
decisions—some of the most important decisions in our lives—with-
out any guidance at all from science. It is possible, however, to get
some guidance from a good novel. Someone thinking about mar-
riage might be deeply influenced by the relationships presented in
Anna Karenina—the failure of Anna’s relation both with her husband
and with her lover, and the success of the relation between Levin and
Kitty.
Science has nothing to say about some of the most important prob-
lems in our lives, because those problems depend on feelings and val-
ues, and because they are a matter of choosing to be connected with
other human beings—spouses, friends, and mentors—and through
clubs, places of worship, and all the other groups in which people
who have similar concerns get together to support one another and
engage in joint activities. I think that our happiness depends to a very
large extent on these connections, and literature has a lot to say
about them. One of the best reasons for studying literature is that it
64 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch03.qxd 17/03/2007 10:25 AM Page 64
allows us to try experiences out imaginatively to see if they feel right.
This can be a helpful guide for making real choices in life.
The similarities between science and literature
If we think of ourselves as students of literature, and different from
scientists and engineers, there may be a temptation to attribute neg-
ative qualities to members of the other group. The Swiss psychoana-
lyst Carl Jung calls this process “projection,” because the individual
projects things in his own mind onto other people, who serve
unknowingly as blank screens. Often the qualities projected are
important aspects of the individual that he does not want to acknowl-
edge or recognize in himself. (For example, a fearful Caucasian vis-
iting a black neighbourhood may see hostility in the local population
when in fact there is none. The hostility may be in his own mind and
being projected on the outside world.) One of the goals of psycho-
analysis is to help patients withdraw their projections, that is, for the
individual to stop projecting onto other people and to see them as
they really are. One way to embark on this process is to look for the
similarities between yourself and the other. It turns out that scientists
and students of literature are similar in significant ways.
In an essay about how traditions work, Karl Popper, the Austrian
philosopher of science, explains a fundamental similarity between
the purposes of science and those of literature. He puts them both in
the context of classical Greek thought, which was often expressed in
the form of a myth, sometimes with religious overtones. Popper is
thinking of the tendency of the Greeks to explain natural pheno-
mena, such as thunder and lightning, by saying that Zeus was angry,
and so he was throwing lightning bolts at someone he wanted to pun-
ish. Popper says that basically scientists and myth-makers are trying to
do the same thing: they are trying to explain why things happen the
way they do. But there is a crucial difference (here it appears as a dif-
ference between science and religion), which is the development of
a critical attitude:
My thesis is that what we call “science” is differentiated from the
older myths not by being something distinct from a myth, but by
being accompanied by a second-order tradition—that of critically
discussing the myth. Before, there was only the first-order tradi-
tion. A definite story was handed on. Now there was still, of course,
a story to be handed on, but with it went something like a silent
accompanying text of a second-order character: “I hand it on to
you, but tell me what you think of it. Think it over. Perhaps you can
Literature and the Ideology of Science 65
ch03.qxd 17/03/2007 10:25 AM Page 65
give us a different story.” This second-order tradition was the criti-
cal or argumentative attitude. It was, I believe, a new thing, and it
is still the fundamentally important thing about the scientific tra-
dition. If we understand that, then we shall have an altogether dif-
ferent attitude towards quite a number of problems of scientific
method. We shall understand that, in a certain sense, science is
myth-making just as religion is. You will say: “But the scientific
myths are so very different from the religious myths.” Certainly
they are different. But why are they different? Because if one
adopts this critical attitude then one’s myths do become different.
They change; and they change in the direction of giving a better
and better account of the world—of the various things which we
can observe. And they also challenge us to observe things which we
would never have observed without these theories or myths.1
This account of science “softens” it, by pointing out that scientific
explanations evolve and that scientific doctrines are open to question
and can be revised in the light of new information. Here Popper is
emphasizing the importance of dialogue. Basically science progresses
through one person proposing a hypothesis and another one criti-
cizing it.
What has this to do with literature? Literature, too, gives accounts
of things. Hamlet shows us, for instance, how Hamlet manages to
emerge from depression and engage with the real world around
him—and the status of Hamlet in our society suggests that we think it
is a valuable account. One reason a work of literature becomes a clas-
sic is that it presents a powerful and important human experience in
language. So in both scientific and literary investigations, a process of
hearing an account of something, and evaluating that account, is tak-
ing place. How this happens in science can provide a useful model
for our discussions of literature. For instance:
• Science has been successful at bringing together people who have
the same interests and who are trying to solve the same problems.
These are the people who can really help each other through dia-
logue. Researchers in literature tend to be grouped around histor-
ical periods and individual authors, rather than around shared
problems, and this sometimes brings the wrong people together.
Two Milton specialists may be interested in very different problems
related to Milton, and so they have little to say to each other.
• Scientists make a clear distinction between contemporary prob-
lems worth solving and the history of science. In literary studies,
the historical and the contemporary are blended in a confusing
66 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch03.qxd 17/03/2007 10:25 AM Page 66
way. One result is that there is little general consensus about what
the important contemporary problems in literary studies are.
• Scientists try to distinguish between central and peripheral prob-
lems, between the problems that are vitally important to solve, and
the problems that are of much less significance.2 This allows them
to mobilize appropriate resources to work on the big problems. In
literary studies this distinction is not made, and so it is difficult for
the energy of groups to be focussed in this way.
• A ground rule of science is that scientists will be honest in what
they report. Anyone who is found falsifying results will cease being
treated as a member of the scientific community. One possible cor-
responding requirement in discussions of literature would be strict
honesty about feelings and responses to works of literature. This
may be more difficult than reporting scientific findings accurately,
but it is a goal worth pursuing if understanding the power of liter-
ature is important.
• In science there is a high value placed on the development of
broad, revealing hypotheses. Often these turn out to be wrong, but
they represent progress when they are articulated, and there is no
shame attached to being wrong in an interesting way. A similar atti-
tude would be valuable in literary studies, too; critics and teachers
often seem to be primarily concerned with details about texts or
the lives of authors that have no general relevance or applicability.
In pointing out these five ways in which critics could learn from sci-
entists, I am not saying that criticism itself should be scientific or that
science is a “higher” activity than studying literature. Nor am I saying
that the two fields are fundamentally the same. There are both simi-
larities and differences. The similarities are related to the fact that the
two are fields of study, supported by a complex social network of pro-
fessors, students, and researchers. The primary difference is the fact
that science tries to be objective, while literary study involves subjectiv-
ity and personal response, even if these are not always acknowledged.
Two kinds of community
I would now like to discuss a quality that can be developed in a liter-
ature class, which has no equivalent in science education. This is the
trust that can be generated when students are willing to be frank
about their responses to a work of literature. Sometimes professors
and students are unwilling to discuss their personal responses
because they are related to sensitive issues in their own lives, so it
would make them feel vulnerable. What you might be willing to dis-
Literature and the Ideology of Science 67
ch03.qxd 17/03/2007 10:25 AM Page 67
cuss with a close friend you might prefer to be silent about in a liter-
ature class.
Often we don’t show ourselves as we really are to other people. We
want to make a good impression; we want others to think we are
strong, intelligent, sensitive, in control of our lives, and so on. Most
of us want to be admired, or at least liked, and so we tend to con-
struct a public self we hope will elicit the response we desire.3 In uni-
versity classes, in addition, it is often easy to guess the kind of
response or comment the professor wants, and to provide what is
expected.
This sabotages the whole process of dialogue, and that is why an
ethic of honesty is worth promoting in literary studies. A dialogue in
which one or more people are faking their responses can only be
frustrating. It cannot lead anywhere. After experiencing classes in
which discussion is based on dishonesty and faking (which often
reduces honest people to silence), it is a relief to find a group in
which people are open and willing to talk about their own problems,
difficulties, and uncertainties. It is reassuring and relaxing to find
that other people have confusions in their lives too—it can make a
troubled individual feel less unusual. It is also much easier to care
about people who are willing to be honest and to expose their
vulnerabilities.
A university class is not usually the place in which we feel we can
reveal our innermost secrets, and sometimes students are ostracized
when they take advantage of an emotionally open group to swamp
others with their feelings. But it is hard to generalize about groups of
this sort, because what occurs depends entirely on the membership.
A group that can accept the play of personal feelings is much more
stimulating than one that avoids them by placing an implicit taboo
on personal contributions. Learning what we can and cannot say is
an important aspect of participating in groups. Certainly the quality
of interaction in a group will be greatly improved if the members
don’t feel that they have to present an idealized self-image, and if
they feel free to confess to inadequacies, misunderstandings, and
even a general lack of comprehension about what is happening in
class. Often these feelings turn out to be shared by other members of
the class. If that is the case, and no one says so, the confusion can
effectively freeze the class and make interesting dialogue impossible.
Frankness about individual responses to works of literature is
important if a discussion in class is to be successful, but no professor
can force students to be open. When a class discussion works well,
however, it can provide an experience of discovery and of intimacy in
a group that cannot be duplicated in a science class, or in any
68 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch03.qxd 17/03/2007 10:25 AM Page 68
humanities course that systematically avoids dealing with what is per-
sonal and subjective. So while there is a lot for students of literature
to learn from science as a field of inquiry, the two fields cannot be
helpfully compared on the basis of the knowledge they generate. Lit-
erary studies deal with significant human questions that science does
not consider, and discussions of literature can provide an experience
of shared subjectivity that is rare and can be both exciting and illu-
minating. Although in some ways our world is dominated by science,
the mandate of literary studies is large, important, and easy to justify.
It is a mark of the current power of scientific ideology that this justi-
fication is not widely understood and accepted.
Notes
1 Karl Popper, “Towards a Rational Theory of Tradition,” Conjectures and
Refutations: The Growth of Scientific Knowledge, 4th ed. (London: Rout-
ledge and Kegan Paul, [1963] 1972) 127.
2 In The Double Helix, James Watson speaks with some contempt of the
biologists who were unable to appreciate the importance of the prob-
lem of discovering the structure of DNA.
3 In Illusion and Reality: The Meaning of Anxiety, David Smail presents a sad
but perhaps accurate view of how society actually operates. He sees
social life as fraught with the possibility of painful rejection by other
people, and thinks that most people hide behind a false social self that
they have constructed: “Most people keep the way they feel about them-
selves as a deep and shameful secret” (4).
Questions to help you check your understanding of this chapter
1 Why are some important questions or problems in life not resolved or
illuminated by science?
2 What is the essential element in adopting what Karl Popper calls “a criti-
cal attitude” toward explanations of things?
3 Why is it important, in discussions in a literature class, for students to be
able to be honest about their responses to works of literature?
Suggestions for further reading
David Smail, Illusion and Reality: The Meaning of Anxiety (London: Dent,
1984). One of the main themes of this very interesting book is that scien-
tific ideology encourages us to think that we ought to see ourselves objec-
tively, which discounts feelings and intuitions, and can produce anxiety.
One of his main theses is that we need to encourage individuals to take
Literature and the Ideology of Science 69
ch03.qxd 17/03/2007 10:25 AM Page 69
account of their subjectivity, and of the feelings that arise spontaneously
in them. These feelings can, when shared in a group, lead to a kind of
knowledge that is validated by the members of the group, even though it
cannot be considered objective.
Irvin Yalom, The Theory and Practice of Group Psychotherapy (New York: Basic
Books, 1970). This is a big, widely used textbook, which contains a lot of
information about how groups function and how they can produce useful
knowledge and awareness for the group’s members. Yalom’s thinking on
this subject is influenced by his very wide reading in Western literature.
On this topic, see also Chapter 13, which deals with reader-response criti-
cism.
70 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch03.qxd 17/03/2007 10:25 AM Page 70
CHAPTER FOUR
Paradigms, Paradigm Change, and Interpretation
One important way in which the study of science can help us under-
stand literature and the effect of ideologies is by showing that science
itself has divisions that are like ideological splits and that are a neces-
sary and natural part of its ongoing development. This thesis first
became well known because of a fascinating book written by Thomas
Kuhn in 1961, called The Structure of Scientific Revolutions.1 One critic
said in 1990 that it was “arguably the most frequently cited work in
the humanities and social sciences in the past twenty-five years.”2
Ironically, but understandably, its main thesis has been much more
warmly received in these areas than in the sciences themselves. The
American philosopher Richard Rorty has said that Kuhn was “the
most influential philosopher to write in English since the Second
World War,” and that reading The Structure of Scientific Revolutions gave
him “the sense of scales falling from my eyes.”3 My purpose in this
chapter is to give an outline of Kuhn’s argument, and to show that
his ideas are very helpful in understanding the interpretation of lit-
erature.
Kuhn says that if we look at the history of science, we can see that
most scientific activity falls into one of two categories: normal science
and revolutionary science. Normal science, Kuhn says, is performed
by a community of scientists whose members share certain assump-
tions about what they are doing and what the world is like. They
share what is called a paradigm. As an example, we can think of Euro-
pean astronomers prior to 1600, who generally shared the belief that
the Earth was at the centre of the universe, and the Moon, the Sun,
and the planets revolved around the Earth in circular orbits. The
outer edge of the universe was a celestial sphere, which held the stars
in place. It was as though the universe was located inside an enor-
mous black basketball, and outside the ball was heaven, where God,
the Lord of Creation, held his court, surrounded by angels and
archangels.
The Catholic Church was directly involved in astronomy because
there were important connections between Christianity, the Biblical
account of creation, and what astronomers said about the universe.
The Church maintained that the universe had been created for
human beings, and so their home (the Earth) had to be at the centre
of the universe. Another belief that affected astronomers was the
idea that the most perfect and Godlike form of motion was circular.
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 71
71
ch04.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 71
It was evident that on Earth there were many kinds of non-circular
motion, but it was thought that all motion between the orbit of the
Moon and the celestial sphere had to be perfectly circular. The plan-
ets were thought to be held in place by glass spheres which rotated
slowly because of complicated invisible clockwork. These glass
spheres mechanically caused the planets to move around the Earth.
Although there were no telescopes before 1600, astronomers kept
careful records of the movements of the planets, and when their
observations did not fit with circular orbits for the planets, they con-
structed elaborate circles-upon-circles to account for the paths of the
planets. This is a good example of how the geocentric or Earth-cen-
tred paradigm influenced thought. Astronomers did not simply see
what was there in the sky; they constructed a theory based on what
they expected to see. The theory came before the “facts.”
Around 1530, Copernicus wrote an account of the solar system
that placed the Sun at its centre; he said that the Earth and the other
planets went around the Sun, and the Moon’s orbit circled the Earth.
This new paradigm fitted in much better with the data that
astronomers had collected, but Copernicus was aware that the helio-
centric (or sun-centred) view of the solar system had revolutionary
implications, and he refused to publish his views during his own life-
time. In 1616 Galileo had a head-on collision with the Church
because he openly promoted the Copernican paradigm, and sup-
ported it with observations made with the newly invented telescope.
Galileo’s argument with the Church represents a paradigm con-
flict, in which two fundamentally different models of the solar system
competed for supremacy. It is clear enough to us now that Galileo
was right, but this was not at all clear to most people in 1600. To
switch from one paradigm to the other caused major disruptions and
upset the faith of many people. Astronomers working with the Earth-
centred model had evolved complicated explanations of the move-
ments of the planets; for them, switching to the Copernican model
meant throwing out years of work and starting over. The Church
objected to the heliocentric paradigm because it seemed an insult
both to humanity and to Christ that they be displaced from the cen-
tre of divine creation. It was also difficult for the Church to accept
correction at the hands of astronomers when it had claimed to have
certain knowledge in this area.
As the heliocentric paradigm began to gain adherents, the science
of astronomy entered what Kuhn calls a “revolutionary” phase, which
is very different from a period of “normal” science. During a revolu-
tionary period, there are two or more competing paradigms—two
models of the solar system, in this case—and it is not clear which is
72 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch04.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 72
preferable. Each paradigm has advantages, and one of the main
advantages of the old paradigm is that most people understand and
accept it. Each paradigm is based on “facts,” but since the paradigm
itself defines what counts as a fact, the “facts” supporting each para-
digm are different. Galileo was the first to discover the moons of
Jupiter, by using a telescope. This proved to him that Jupiter was not
kept in place by a glass sphere, because such a sphere would be bro-
ken by the moons crashing through it. But for the papal authorities,
the existence of these moons was not a fact; they thought the moons
appeared only because of the telescope—perhaps they were even
painted on the lenses in some way.
It is a regular feature of paradigm conflict that the two parties do
not agree on what the facts are. This situation is especially complex
because there is no higher authority to settle the matter. A similar sit-
uation often exists when a married couple separates. If you listen to
both the husband’s and the wife’s accounts of what went wrong in the
marriage, you usually discover that they don’t agree about the signi-
ficant facts of the case. Each person sees a different marriage. Nei-
ther can see the whole picture.
A further aspect of paradigm conflict is that it usually involves
strong feelings, particularly anger and frustration. This is not just an
intellectual matter. When your fundamental beliefs about the world
are attacked in some way, you tend to feel insecure and upset, and
this can put defenders of the old paradigm in a rage. If you are pro-
moting a new paradigm, then you feel excited by your new discover-
ies made with its help, and it can be bitterly disappointing when they
are not only not welcomed, but actually denied.
The uncertainty and complexity of revolutionary science, with its
paradigm conflicts, can be appreciated more easily if we think of an
actual ideological conflict between two social groups. In 2006 a seri-
ous conflict occurred between some Western countries and some
Islamic groups because of a series of cartoons that were initially pub-
lished in a Danish newspaper. These cartoons depicted Mohammed
in a way that many Muslims felt was insulting. One implied that there
was a direct connection between Islam and terrorism by showing
Mohammed with headgear resembling a bomb.
The publishing of these cartoons led to crowds attacking Western
embassies in Lebanon, Syria, and Iran, and to death threats to the
editors of the newspaper that had published the cartoons. One point
of conflict was between the Islamic prohibition against any pictorial
depiction of Mohammed and the democratic principle that the press
should be free to publish what it sees fit, without fear of physical
retaliation. The principle is sometimes represented by a statement
Paradigms, Paradigm Change, and Interpretation 73
ch04.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 73
attributed to Voltaire: “I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend
to the death your right to say it.” But this principle is clearly not an
absolute in the West. Since World War Two, many European coun-
tries have passed laws banning the display of Nazi symbols.
If we look at this conflict theoretically, there seems to be no possi-
ble accommodation between the two groups. One clings to the “fact”
that, in the West, the press is free to publish what it wants. The other
clings to the “fact” that there should be no depiction of Mohammed.
Whose facts are more important in this case?4
Once you become aware of the existence of paradigms, and how
they influence the way people think about the world, you can see that
the “truths” about the world—about religion, politics, and even sci-
ence—are not absolute truths. They depend on particular para-
digms. You cannot look at the world except through a paradigm, and
what you see depends on the paradigm you are working with. If your
father is a businessman in a capitalist country, you may simply assume
that it is acceptable for one person’s income to be a hundred times
that of another person. If you were a papal astronomer in 1500, it was
a fact that the Earth was at the centre of the universe.
Problems with paradigm differences
Another example of paradigm change brings us closer to home,
because it has significant implications about the nature of education.
What is the mind? How do we conceptualize or visualize the mind,
and how does this influence our ideas of mental development? In the
eighteenth century the mind was often considered to be like an
empty blackboard (a tabula rasa). During the course of a person’s
life, experiences and sensations left marks on the blackboard, and
knowledge was a result of those marks. This paradigm is characteris-
tic of the empiricist philosophers, who wanted to emphasize that
knowledge comes through experience rather than directly from God
through revelation. (“There is nothing in the mind which is not first
in the senses,” they said.) During the nineteenth century, Romantic
poets and thinkers objected that this paradigm made the mind too
passive; it made it seem as though the mind could be shaped any way
the shaper desired, by the provision of the appropriate experiences.
The empiricist paradigm seemed to lead to determinism, according
to which a person was merely the product of his or her experience. In
opposition to this, the Romantics proposed a new model for the
mind—it was seen as an organism (such as a flower) that grows
according to its own inner laws. It is affected by its environment (if
there is no water, a flower will die), but it contains in its seed the pat-
74 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch04.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 74
tern of its ultimate development. This paradigm implied that the
educator needed to take account of the individual natures of his stu-
dents; there was no point in trying to educate a rosebud to become a
daffodil. Ideally, according to this paradigm, the teacher should pro-
vide a nourishing setting for each student. In the late twentieth cen-
tury a new model for the mind emerged: the computer, which intro-
duces the image of programming as an analogy for education.
It is still possible to find educators who believe in each of these
paradigms, or behave as if they did. Very often a good education
depends on choosing teachers whose paradigm is consistent with
what and how you want to learn. Different phases of education will
require different paradigms, as well. An eighteenth-century para-
digm would seem appropriate for “learning the facts” of history,
while the plant or the computer analogy would be better for learning
about historiography, the study of how books of history are written.
This subject will be discussed in more detail in Chapter 9, with refer-
ence to the Italian historian Giambattista Vico.
Paradigms and dialogue
If you accept the idea that you are always looking at the world
through a set of assumptions, or a paradigm, then you have to admit
that knowledge cannot be absolute. Anything that you know, you
only know relative to the paradigm you are using. You cannot expect
someone working in a different paradigm to agree with your knowl-
edge. You cannot force him or her to agree with you by an appeal to
the facts, since what counts as a fact emerges as the result of the oper-
ation of a particular paradigm.
Some people do not want to acknowledge the existence of para-
digms because they want to have access to absolute truth. There are
understandable, though not very admirable, reasons for wanting
access to some absolute truth. Life is much easier if you have truth at
your disposal: many difficult decisions are eliminated, and often you
can use your truth to gain power over other people. Students are
often willing to submit to an absolute authority because they aspire
to achieve a similar kind of authority themselves. Many professors
find that their students yearn for “the truth,” and it can be tempting
to feel you can satisfy this hunger.
There are, however, many advantages to rejecting the possibility
that you can find absolute truths. An anti-absolutist stance tends to
make people more tolerant and open to others with whom they dis-
agree. You probably won’t want to burn people at the stake if you
understand the operation of paradigms, and it also helps you under-
Paradigms, Paradigm Change, and Interpretation 75
ch04.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 75
stand how communities or cultural subgroups work, because they are
generally made up of people who share a paradigm in a particular
area of life. As with a group of scientists doing normal science, peo-
ple who share a paradigm can make assumptions about one another,
converse rapidly, and make use of a local idea of what constitutes
“facts” and “the truth.”
Recognizing the existence of paradigms has a fundamental effect
on the way a person engages in dialogue. When you are talking with
another person, you become aware that there are basically two dis-
tinct possibilities: either you share a paradigm, or there is a paradigm
conflict between you and the other person. You need to proceed in
very different ways in these two cases. When you share a paradigm,
you can move much more quickly, you can predict better what the
other will say, and you can count on your evidence being accepted.
Your dialogue can be tight, precise, and even witty. You can willingly
accept a good deal of toughness and anger because you share a basic
commitment with the other person.
If you sense that there is a paradigm difference between you and
the other person, then you have to be much more tentative, careful,
and open, and you have to listen extremely carefully to understand
what the other person is saying. You can’t assume that the other per-
son is experiencing the world the way you do, and you have to make
a much greater effort to get into the other person’s world, and feel
what it is like. You have to expect that some of the other’s truths will
not be valid for you. You need to be curious about the other person’s
world if the conversation is going to be worthwhile, because it is not
liable to shed much light on your own immediate experience. You
need to assume that there will be fundamental differences between
you, and, if the dialogue is going to continue for long, you will even-
tually have to identify the paradigm differences and work out some
kind of compromise over them.
Paradigms and interpretations
One way of recognizing the existence of paradigms and their influ-
ence on how we see the world is to say that we are always interpreting
the world around us, and that we can never be sure that we are see-
ing it as it actually is—especially in complex situations such as meet-
ing a new person, reading a new book, or starting an English course.
We are filtering what we see through our paradigm or our ideology,
and we can’t get at reality in its raw state.
I want to use the word “interpretation” in a very broad way in this
book, and maintain that whenever we read a book or a poem we pro-
76 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch04.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 76
duce an interpretation of it. Even if we only register boredom, that is
a significant interpretation of what we have experienced. (Boredom
is not simple, and often it is a way of shutting out troubling experi-
ences.) The single most significant aspect of an interpretation of a
book, in my view, is the degree of importance we ascribe to the book.
We usually remember little about a book that bores us. Some books
temporarily hold our interest, but we take nothing away from them.
Some books engage us, and we remember things about them for a
long time. Some books (these are the really significant ones for each
of us) actually change the way we see the world, and we never revert
to our earlier paradigm. Sometimes the Bible has this effect on peo-
ple who are converted to Christianity, but the same effect also can
occur with secular literature. The influential French critic Roland
Barthes reported that À la recherche du temps perdu, Marcel Proust’s
long novel, formed his mind in fundamental ways, and William
Wordsworth’s poetry, especially “Tintern Abbey” and The Prelude, had
a similar effect on me. It is often interesting to know what books have
formed the minds of critics and teachers with whom you come in
contact.
A professor or a student may produce an essay or a lecture on a
subject such as “What does The French Lieutenant’s Woman mean?”
This will be an interpretation in the narrower sense of the word; it
will cover the main events in the book and assemble them in a more
or less interesting way. But what is selected as a “main event,” and
how these events are put together, will depend on the writer’s inter-
pretive paradigm. The interpretation cannot be innocent or objec-
tive. Any critic who claims to be transparent, innocent, and simply
presenting the object “as it is” is deluding himself.
I have used Kuhn to prepare for the main point of this chapter:
that in literary studies there are a number of different interpretive
paradigms, and they operate in much the same way as do Kuhn’s
paradigms in science. Different critics and professors work with dif-
ferent paradigms, and anyone wanting to participate in the literary
community has to learn how to deal with this difficulty. Students
sometimes encounter this problem when they realize that they are
expected to write different kinds of essays for different professors,
and that an essay that received an A from one professor might
receive a B from another. Some professors like a lot of quotations
and footnotes; some don’t. Some like a tight, logical argument; some
prefer more flow and feeling. Some professors are interested in the
personal opinions of their students, and some want “objectivity.”
Encountering these variations can be a frustrating and alienating
experience for students, who might reasonably complain that the
Paradigms, Paradigm Change, and Interpretation 77
ch04.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 77
department has not worked out a common policy on these matters.
But what the students are encountering is not just a fragmented
department, but the fragmentation of the modern world. There is no
general agreement about what is true or important, and this dissen-
sion is present in many aspects of academic life. The idea of para-
digms helps you cope with this situation and allows you to see the
freedom inherent in it. For in some ways it is easier to serve several
masters than just one; when there is a diversity of authorities there is
a degree of choice, and the possibility of working out the details of
your own paradigm.
Someone might object to this whole theory of paradigms by saying,
“What this really shows is that everyone has a different experience of
the world, and so everyone ends up with his or her own individual
paradigm. This means that we have nothing in common, and we
can’t communicate properly, because we are always involved in para-
digm conflicts.” That is a sceptical point of view, and for some people
it may accurately express how they feel about their relations with oth-
ers. My own reply is that I am not a sceptic, because there are some
communities whose paradigms I am happy (or at least willing) to
accept and share. Paradigms are social constructions, like natural
languages. There is no point in speaking a language that only you
know; you want to speak languages that allow you to communicate
with other people. Recognizing the importance of shared paradigms,
and valuing the communication that can occur when a paradigm is
shared, can give you a new respect for communities, and a willing-
ness to tolerate the restrictions they impose.
Paradigms for the interpretation of literature
The rest of this book will be concerned with presenting different
ways in which literature can be interpreted. Historical criticism, new
criticism, structuralism, deconstruction, and feminist analysis are all
different types of interpretation, and they all present different para-
digms for understanding literature. Essentially these theories inhabit
different worlds, although there is some overlapping and intercon-
nection. Each has its own ideology; each proposes a different model
for the relationship between human beings and the world we live in.
Reading the work of a structuralist, a historical critic, and a feminist
on Hamlet is like visiting three different countries. Each type of critic
approaches the text with a particular set of concerns and desires, and
finds material in the play that stands out because of his or her par-
ticular approach. According to Thomas Kuhn, a field of inquiry does
not become a mature science until a dominant paradigm emerges
78 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch04.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 78
and everyone using other paradigms is seen as doing marginal or triv-
ial work. Before that, the field is in a pre-paradigm state, and it has the
following characteristics: there is a huge variety of activity; people
feel free to work in their own idiosyncratic ways; communication
between members of the profession is relatively poor; and people
writing books and essays usually feel the need to “begin at the begin-
ning,” because there are no shared assumptions to count on. This is
a good description of the state of literary studies in the first decade
of the twenty-first century: there are a large number of schools of crit-
icism, and a lot of mavericks who don’t want to belong to any school.
There is an incessant debate over fundamental issues and a good
deal of competition between the various schools to produce a para-
digm that will subsume the others. Perhaps in fifty years a dominant
paradigm will have emerged, and work in literary studies will seem
less chaotic. At the moment, however, the only option seems to be to
live with the chaos, to try to enjoy it, and to keep an eye out for the
emergence of a master paradigm. “May you live in an interesting
time” is an ancient Chinese curse; this is an interesting time in liter-
ary studies, when everything seems up for grabs.
A woman and a man reading The French Lieutenant’s Woman
To illustrate how a paradigm difference between two people can pro-
duce different readings of a single text, I want to sketch the
responses of a woman and a man—we will call them Emily and
George—to John Fowles’s novel The French Lieutenant’s Woman.5 Not
all men and women would necessarily focus on the issues that arise
in these accounts of the book, but some might.
George found the book fascinating almost from the first page,
because it dealt with problems he had pondered a good deal during
his years in university. How do you decide if you want to get married?
If you commit yourself to marriage, what should you do if you find
yourself falling in love with another woman, who makes you realize
that your commitment to your fiancée is built on an insecure, and
perhaps eroding, foundation? What role does mystery play in draw-
ing you to another person, and does that mystery inevitably disap-
pear as you become familiar with a woman? George found himself
identifying strongly with Charles Smithson, the hero of the novel,
who was embroiled with exactly these questions. At the opening of
the novel, Charles, the son of a wealthy aristocrat in Victorian Eng-
land, is engaged to Ernestina Freeman, whose father is a member of
the rising middle class and the owner of a successful department
store. Ernestina is pretty in a conventional way and dresses stylishly,
Paradigms, Paradigm Change, and Interpretation 79
ch04.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 79
but her education and her upbringing have left her narrow-minded
and self-centred. Shortly after the book begins, Charles finds himself
attracted to another woman, Sarah Woodrough—the “French lieu-
tenant’s woman” of the title—who is lower-class, poor, poorly
dressed, eccentric, and possibly insane. Charles thinks of himself as
her protector and helper, but gradually he is drawn into a relation-
ship with her, almost against his will. He then has to deal with the
conflict in his allegiances.
For George, the central action in this book is how Charles deals
with the problem of commitment to another person. Everything else
in the book radiates from it. The subplot, concerning the marriage
of Charles’s servant, echoes and amplifies the main plot. Dr Grogan,
the older man who advises Charles at key points in the novel, leads
the life of a man who has chosen not to marry.
Emily also found The French Lieutenant’s Woman intriguing, but in
an entirely different way. She had always felt squashed and hampered
by the restrictions placed on girls and women, and she was not
attracted by the standard roles of housewife and mother. She sympa-
thized with Ernestina, who had been smothered in much the same
way as Emily had been; Emily saw that Ernestina was much less liber-
ated and energetic than she might have been, and Emily could guess
how this had come about. But it was Sarah who really interested her.
Sarah had had few advantages in life, apart from her strong mind
and passionate nature, and society was closing in all around her. Her
main problem was not whom to marry, but how to lead an interest-
ing and involving life without becoming ensnared in the traps that
society, and particularly men, set for her. Emily saw that Sarah delib-
erately deceived people so that they could not pin her down, and that
in order to retain her freedom she willingly accepted the disguise of
insanity. Even in her developing relationship with Charles, to whom
she was very attracted, Sarah employed deception in order to engage
his feelings, and she later led him on in order to make him face his
real feelings about his engagement to Ernestina. Emily sympathized
with Sarah’s need for independence, and she could understand why
Sarah had chosen to disappear just when Charles was ready to
declare his love for her and ask her to marry him.
The main action in this book is different for George and Emily,
and the parts that arouse their greatest interest are not the same.
They could almost be said to be reading different books, even
though the same text has passed beneath their eyes. In reading some-
thing as long as a novel, it is impossible to give equal attention to
everything, or to remember everything with equal force. The struc-
tures of the novel remaining in the minds of George and Emily after
80 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch04.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 80
they had finished reading the book are radically different. To com-
pound this problem, the novel has two endings. In the first Charles
and Sarah end up together, presumably about to marry, and we dis-
cover they have a two-year-old child, conceived on the one occasion
on which they made love. In the second ending they separate, the
child is not theirs, and Charles has to make his way into the world
again, alone, after an enormous detour in the course of his life. The
novel George has read is better completed by the first ending,
because Charles has dedicated himself to finding and marrying
Sarah, at the cost of great personal suffering: he deserves her. But for
Emily the second ending is preferable, because the novel has essen-
tially been about Sarah’s emancipation. At the end of the novel Sarah
has found a community of artists who respect her and treat her well;
it would be a betrayal of her whole project to enter into marriage
with a dominating aristocrat who seems to think that the main pur-
pose of a woman’s existence is to bear children.
Suppose George and Emily are asked to resolve their differences in
an English class. What can they achieve together? Is there anything
they can gain from each other? Or are they simply living in separate
worlds?
This is a real problem, and it is typical of the state of literary criti-
cism and interpretation in the twenty-first century. Any easy solution
is bound to be unsatisfactory. The rest of this book will add new
dimensions to the problem—but will not solve it.
Notes
1 Thomas Kuhn, The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, 2nd ed. (Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, [1961] 1970).
2 Stanley Fish, “Rhetoric,” in Critical Terms for Literary Study, ed. Frank
Lentricchia and Thomas McLaughlin (Chicago: University of Chicago
Press, 1990) 210.
3 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and Social Hope (London: Penguin, 1999) 175.
4 As with many paradigm conflicts, practical, ad hoc solutions can be
found. Some Western commentators said that while in theory the press
should be free, there is no benefit in publishing inflammatory and
offensive material just to prove it. There are much better occasions for
defending this right, they said. One quoted an aphorism by Mark
Twain: “It is by the goodness of God that in our country we have those
three unspeakably precious things: freedom of speech, freedom of con-
science, and the prudence never to practise either” (John Hasselberg,
letter to the Economist, 25 Feb. 2006, 19). A compromise offered to
Galileo was that he could teach the idea of heliocentrism as a theory,
Paradigms, Paradigm Change, and Interpretation 81
ch04.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 81
but not as a fact.
5 John Fowles, The French Lieutenant’s Woman (Boston: Little, Brown,
1969).
Questions to help you check your understanding of this chapter
1 Give a brief explanation of what Kuhn meant by the word “paradigm.”
2 What are the main differences between periods of “normal science”
and periods of “revolutionary science”?
3 How might your awareness of the existence of paradigm differences
affect your conversation with another person?
82 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch04.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 82
CHAPTER FIVE
Historical Criticism and New Criticism
The purpose of this chapter is to set the stage for the rise of literary
theory in the 1960s. What follows is a condensed and schematic
description of the development of English studies in the university
setting in the first half of the twentieth century. My aim is not to give
a complete account of what happened, but to present two well-estab-
lished paradigms for the study of literature. The first was fully devel-
oped in the nineteenth century; the second was born around 1930.
Together they would account for at least 60 per cent of the teaching
done in most honours literature programs at North American uni-
versities in the first decade of the twenty-first century. Students will
probably find most of their professors operating in one, or both, of
these paradigms.
Historical, or life-and-times, criticism
The main paradigm for literary studies today is provided by historical
criticism. According to this paradigm, which was briefly described in
the first chapter of this book, the meaning of a work of literature is
the meaning it had for the author when he or she wrote it, or the
meaning that was understood by the original audience. According to
this paradigm, if you want to know what Hamlet means, you need to
assemble a lot of the pertinent historical information. You will want
to find out as much as you can about the life of Shakespeare and the
thought of his period. There are a number of references to God in
the play, so you will want to know how the Elizabethans thought
about God. You will want to know what they thought about ghosts,
and whether the information that the ghost of Hamlet’s father gives
to Hamlet is likely to be true or false. It would help to know what
Shakespeare’s society thought about regicide: when was it permissi-
ble to kill a king? We know that Hamlet was written for performance
in a particular theatre and by a particular group of actors. How might
the nature of the theatre, and the abilities of the individual actors,
have influenced the way in which Shakespeare wrote the play? How
might censorship have affected his choice of themes for the play?
Once you assemble a good deal of this information, you can begin
to guess what Shakespeare may have had in mind when he wrote the
play. Some relevant information is lost forever, so your reading can
never be perfect. It is clear, however, that you could spend five years
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 83
83
ch05.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 83
or so gathering the relevant historical materials, and another ten
mastering them. Understanding Hamlet properly begins to seem
almost like a life’s work; and since you cannot afford anything like
this amount of time, you need to depend on your professor to pro-
vide you with the most important information. (Your professor,
unless she is a Hamlet specialist herself, depends on another set of
experts.)
The authoritarian nature of this paradigm is readily apparent, and
lecturing is an appropriate mode for teaching in it. There is a virtu-
ally infinite amount of information, and the people who have it con-
vey the important material to the people who want to learn it. It is not
clear in this paradigm why the student should read the actual play at
all, since his ideas about it will undoubtedly be wrong, and his
responses inappropriate in many ways. Sometimes courses based on
this paradigm do not involve a lot of reading of literature, although
there may be a great deal of work on what critics have said about
works of literature, and on lecture-notes.
The impulse to set up literature courses in this way comes, in the
best instances, from the professor’s genuine admiration for an
author. The author is seen as a great man or woman (or at least a sig-
nificant one), the works studied contain important thoughts and
powerful feelings, and what the professor really wants to do is to
climb inside the head of the author and live the author’s life as com-
pletely as possible. Charles Augustin Sainte-Beuve, an eminent nine-
teenth-century French critic working in this paradigm, said,
Literature, literary production, as I see it, is not distinct or separa-
ble from the rest of mankind’s character and activity. I may enjoy a
work, but it is hard for me to judge it independently of my knowl-
edge of the man who produced it. I am inclined to say, tel arbre, tel
fruit—the fruit is like the tree. Thus the study of literature leads me
naturally to the study of human natures....
There are never too many ways to go about learning to know a
man—man is a complex creature, by no means pure spirit. What
were his religious ideas? How was he affected by the spectacle of
Nature? How did he behave towards women? What was his attitude
towards money? Was he rich, poor? What was his routine, his daily
life? Finally, what was his vice or weakness? Every man has one.1
Most readers must feel something like this when they encounter an
author they admire intensely. You want to know more about the
writer, and so you go to biography and history, to the experts who
have the information you want.
84 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch05.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 84
This paradigm proposes a structure for literature as a whole that is
historical, and one of the main reasons for a training in this paradigm
is to give students a feeling for the grand progression in English liter-
ature from medieval times through Shakespeare, Milton, Pope,
Wordsworth, Arnold, to Yeats and Lawrence. It is simply a fact of Eng-
lish studies today that this paradigm dominates most university
departments and the publishing of most books and periodicals deal-
ing with literature. With a few exceptions, university courses are
organized according to historical periods, experts in those periods are
trained and hired, and books and articles are written about authors,
groups of authors who knew each other, and historical periods.
Although a great deal of valuable work is done in the historical
paradigm, it suffers from three striking internal contradictions. The
first is that although it represents a thoroughly historical approach,
it usually places “great authors” on a transcendent level and sees
their works as “immortal” or “timeless,” often because the author has
been able to say something that is considered “eternally true” about
the human condition. There is often a strong moral impulse behind
the work done in this paradigm, and some critics feel that the rise of
English as an academic subject was partly caused by the decline of
religion. As religion became less and less vital as a moral force in Eng-
land, educators were on the lookout for another way of improving
the morals of the general public, and the study of English literature
was a possible candidate.2 But it is not clear how a historical account
of literature can judge some works to be timeless or eternal. Any
judgment of that sort must be made in specific historical conditions,
and so be limited by those conditions.
The second contradiction is that although the paradigm is fuelled
by intense admiration for certain great authors, it proposes and
underwrites projects for gathering knowledge that have little to do
with this admiration, and even seem contrary to it. If you want to
understand Hamlet, it seems reasonable to collect all the Elizabethan
plays about revenge and find out as much as possible about their
authors. This can be an enormous task, occupying the lives of many
scholars, even though these works may inspire little admiration and
in fact may seem hardly worth reading today. An academic industry
develops (one operating with great energy) that produces an endless
stream of historical material. Instead of illuminating Hamlet, by and
large this activity fills libraries with specialized books and articles that
only a few people want to read.
The third contradiction is the failure of the historical paradigm to
leave room for the reader. Essentially the reader is supposed to be
transparent—to make himself or herself conform as closely as possi-
Historical Criticism and New Criticism 85
ch05.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 85
ble with the mind of the author. But most people don’t want to be
transparent (or invisible); they would like to be seen, and even to gain
a degree of authority and presence themselves, and they are attracted
to authors who possess these qualities. They also usually prefer a situ-
ation in which their responses matter. In the historical paradigm
those responses are hidden, although it is clear that what makes the
experts declare that certain works are “great” must be related to what
those experts feel when they read the works in question.3
As in Thomas Kuhn’s model for the development of a science
(described in Chapter 4), the contradictions or inadequacies in the
dominant paradigm caused some professors to develop a new para-
digm to overcome those contradictions. That paradigm, called “Prac-
tical Criticism” in Britain and “New Criticism” in the United States,
became important between 1930 and 1950. It never displaced histor-
ical criticism from the centre of the stage, however. There were two
rival paradigms in operation, and there was a good deal of friction
between them. (“New Historicism” developed in the 1980s and
became another competitor with historical criticism. This movement
is described in Chapter 12.)
Practical Criticism and New Criticism
The new paradigm concentrated not on the author, but on the
“words on the page.” The basic method of Practical Criticism, as it
was developed by I.A. Richards in England, was to give students a set
of three or four fairly short poems, with no indication of who wrote
them, when they were written, or how famous they were. The stu-
dents were asked to read the poems several times during the week
between classes and write down their responses, saying what they
liked, what they disliked, what they didn’t understand, what the
poems reminded them of, and so on. These statements demon-
strated to Richards (and to the world, when he published them) how
difficult it was to read poetry “correctly,” how few people could do it,
and what kinds of mistake were most common. A course in Practical
Criticism taught you to pay close attention to the details of the text,
to identify different styles of language, to avoid certain errors in read-
ing, and sometimes to “date” passages, that is, to assign an approxi-
mate date when the poem might have been written.
An important forerunner of Practical Criticism was Samuel Taylor
Coleridge’s commentaries, in his Biographia Literaria, on the poems
of his friend William Wordsworth.4 Part of Coleridge’s originality lay
in his introduction of the idea of organic unity into criticism. This
had two main effects, which are still important today.5 The first is the
86 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch05.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 86
guideline that you cannot judge a poem from the outside, by an
external standard. You need to allow for the possibility that the poem
is original, and tries to do something new and worthwhile. A poem
may be like a newly discovered species of plant. You need to be open
to judging it on its own terms, and not by external criteria. The sec-
ond important idea implied by organic unity is that a successful
poem has a quality of wholeness like that of an organism: all the parts
are necessary to the whole, and the whole is greater than the parts.
Part of the ability of a good critic is to sense, and be able to explain,
the organic unity at the heart of a good poem.
Practical Criticism is authoritarian, although in a different way
from historical criticism. Professors have authority not because of the
facts they know—the information at their disposal—but because they
are skilled at reading. They are good at eliciting and presenting the
main feelings and ideas in a poem, and showing their structure and
interrelations. Their students can learn these skills from them. There
are interesting analogies between Practical Criticism and learning
how to appreciate music, or how to get more out of paintings.
A moral element emerged in this paradigm of criticism with the
hypothesis that the best poems and novels give us the deepest and
fullest relation to life. In order to read and appreciate these texts
(which are often complex) we need to be versed in the skills offered
by a course in Practical Criticism. Practical Criticism arose after the
First World War, in Britain, when the ideology of the British Empire
had been to some extent discredited by all the senseless slaughter,
and many reflective people were looking for a new basis for their val-
ues. As Terry Eagleton states,
English was an arena in which the most fundamental questions of
human existence—what it meant to be a person, to engage in sig-
nificant relationship with others, to live from the vital centre of the
most essential values—were thrown into vivid relief and made the
object of the most intensive scrutiny. Scrutiny was the title of the
critical journal launched in 1932 by the Leavises [two critics at
Cambridge], which has yet to be surpassed in its tenacious devo-
tion to the moral centrality of English studies, their crucial rele-
vance to the quality of social life as a whole.6
In this way English studies became very practical indeed. Instead of
being anchored in the life of the author, a great work was considered
to be alive in the present, in the sensibility of a trained reader who
had read it. The value of reading was not simply a matter of enjoying
books of high quality; it was felt that the reader could make better
Historical Criticism and New Criticism 87
ch05.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 87
choices about his or her own life because of the experience of read-
ing carefully.
New Criticism was the American variant of Practical Criticism, and
it worked within much the same paradigm. “New Critics” concen-
trated on famous poems and read them with close attention. They
were especially interested in features such as paradox, conflict, the
tensions between opposing elements or ideas, and how these tensions
could be resolved harmoniously. A fine poem was thought to be simi-
lar to a “well-wrought urn” or a “verbal icon,” and it was expected to
present a solution to some important problem.7 Formal patterning
was considered important; poetry was often expected to induce a con-
templative, peaceful, accepting frame of mind, as some music does.
Practical Criticism and American New Criticism had some clear
pedagogical advantages over the historical paradigm. Narrowing the
focus of attention from the sweep of history to the words on the page
made the primary material of literature more available to the stu-
dents, who could then take part in the process of exploring and dis-
cussing the meaning of a poem rather than simply listening to a set
of lectures. The new paradigm allowed the students’ responses to
come into the classroom, even though they were likely to be mildly
rebuked and corrected much of the time. The emphasis on skills of
reading rather than a mass of seemingly arbitrary information was
enlivening, and it helped students to feel that through reading they
were connecting with important moral issues.
There were two problems with this paradigm. One was that the
skills of the good reader were often not specified, so that the profes-
sor seemed like a magician producing wonderful readings of texts
that otherwise would have been experienced as opaque by the stu-
dents. A series of dazzling readings might be instructive, or it might
induce in the student an unhealthy passivity, leading to a statement
such as “The professor can do it, but I don’t know where to begin.”
There was no doubt that the professor’s historical knowledge helped
her avoid incorrect readings, but this was seldom acknowledged.
The second and more serious problem with Practical Criticism was
that it provided no means of connecting works of literature with each
other, or with anything else for that matter. Because its general
approach was to have students read works in isolation, the result
lacked unity and structure. A four-year university course could hardly
consist only of a large number of empirical readings of isolated texts.
A larger structure had to be found to relate works to each other, and
usually this came from the historical paradigm. Within courses, Prac-
tical Criticism was employed, but the courses themselves were still
organized historically. This sort of compromise was more or less
inevitable until a new paradigm emerged.
88 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch05.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 88
The rise of a new paradigm in the 1960s placed this problem in the
foreground. The first important solution, which attracted widespread
attention and (some experts would say) revolutionized literary stud-
ies, was provided by structuralism. This broad intellectual movement
originated in France and had several characteristics that English
speakers often associate with the French: like cubism or surrealism in
painting, structuralism was a radically new departure; it had a certain
abstract quality; and it regarded language as a system of communica-
tion quite cut off from the physical world. Practical Criticism and New
Criticism were more empirically based, depending on actual readings
of individual texts. This seemed to suit the down-to-earth Anglo-Saxon
mind. Although structuralism has had little long-term effect on
French literary education, it found a warm welcome both in the
United States and, later, in other English-speaking countries. This
marked the establishment of a new field that would become known as
“literary theory.” British empiricism and French rationalism seemed
ready for a fruitful union. To this stimulating new development,
known as la nouvelle critique in France, we can now turn our attention.
Notes
1 Charles Augustin Sainte-Beuve, “On Sainte-Beuve’s Method,” Sainte
Beuve: Selected Essays, trans. and ed. Francis Steegmuller and Norbert
Guterman (Garden City, NY: Doubleday, 1963) 281-82, 290.
2 Terry Eagleton, The Function of Criticism (London: Verso, 1984) 55-67.
3 The ideal of being open to the transformative power of books is an
attractive one, although it is not quite the same as being transparent.
The protagonist of Robert Hellenga’s The Fall of a Sparrow is described
as having this goal: “Teaching had been his [Woody’s] vocation. He had
never tired of it, had never become cynical about students, or about the
power of great books to inform and to enlighten. But you had to open
yourself to them. That’s what he tried to teach his students. Not to do
things to the books, but to let the books do things to you. To fill you, to
change you” (Toronto: Viking, 1999, p.217).
4 Many experts would say that Coleridge’s Biographia Literaria (1817) is
the single most significant work of literary criticism in English. In my
opinion, it is a wonderful and amazing book, but challenging to read,
because it is very disorganized; however, it amply repays the strenuous
effort of working your way through it. Because Coleridge is comment-
ing on the poems of Wordsworth, his contemporary, he does not need
to deal with “the historical background.” In this, he anticipates Practi-
cal Criticism and New Criticism.
5 What is organic unity? The idea is a metaphorical one in literary criti-
cism, because a poem does not literally possess organic unity in the
Historical Criticism and New Criticism 89
ch05.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 89
same way that a living organism (a plant, for instance) does. Perceiving
organic unity in a poem is to some extent a matter of feeling, and it
depends on the person reading the poem. There is, for instance, sub-
stantial disagreement among critics about whether “Kubla Khan,” one
of Coleridge’s most famous poems (quoted in full in Chapter 1), pos-
sesses organic unity, or whether it is fragmentary in nature. Deconstruc-
tionists (see Chapter 8) are hostile to the very idea of organic unity, but
that is because theirs is fundamentally a sceptical outlook on life.
Organic unity has an undeniably idealistic ring about it. In 2002, Frank
Kermode, an eminent British critic, cited with approval an article by
Mary Poovey, in which she argues that “the concept of organic unity,
which has been totally exiled from literary theory in recent years, is
actually the groundwork for all modern theoretical approaches to liter-
ature.” Kermode says, “There is something which we judge value by,
and ... one of the criteria would be organic wholeness.” Kermode’s
remark is in Life after Theory (ed. Michael Payne and John Schad [Lon-
don: Continuum, 2003] 63). Mary Poovey’s article is “The Model Sys-
tem of Contemporary Literary Criticism,” in Critical Inquiry 27 (Spring
2001): 408-38.
6 Terry Eagleton, Literary Theory: An Introduction (Oxford: Blackwell,
1983) 31.
7 Cleanth Brooks, The Well-Wrought Urn (New York: Harvest, [1947] 1963)
and W.K. Wimsatt and Monroe Beardsley, The Verbal Icon (London:
Methuen, [1954] 1970) are two well-known books in the tradition of
New Criticism. The second contains a famous essay entitled “The Inten-
tional Fallacy,” in which the authors state their belief that “the design
or the intention of the author is neither available nor desirable as a
standard for judging the success of a work of literary art.”
Questions to help you check your understanding of this chapter
1 There is a paradigm difference, or a difference in the fundamental
assumptions, between historical critics and American New Critics (or in
Britain, critics doing Practical Criticism). What are the key differences?
Could they be resolved?
2 In your opinion, is historical information completely irrelevant to a
critic working in the mode of American New Criticism (or British Prac-
tical Criticism)?
3 Can you explain the idea of organic unity? How can this idea be
applied to a work of literature?
90 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch05.qxd 17/03/2007 10:28 AM Page 90
PART TWO
Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 91
ch06-pt2.qxd 02/04/2007 11:22 AM Page 91
92 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch06-pt2.qxd 02/04/2007 11:22 AM Page 92
CHAPTER SIX
Structuralism (i): The Birth of a Paradigm
The development of structuralist literary criticism was the most
important change in ways of dealing with literature in the twentieth
century; indeed, some scholars think that the rise of structuralism in
general constituted one of the major turning points in Western intel-
lectual history. With structuralism came a new paradigm and a new
model for thinking about literature—and about cultural production
generally. That model is language.
When you first begin to look at the world in terms of this model,
what you see changes, in some significant ways. Structuralism was by
its very nature a cross-disciplinary phenomenon, affecting linguistics,
anthropology, history, literature, philosophy, psychology, and psy-
chiatry. It inspired excitement and admiration in some people, and
hatred and loathing in others. Both responses are understandable,
and once you have read this chapter you should be able to decide
which is closer to your own.
Historical criticism sees literature as the product of the author’s
mind, and New Criticism treats a work as an isolated experience of the
reader. Both of these paradigms for investigating literature seem jus-
tified by common sense. The first is based on the fact that authors do
write poems at particular moments in their lives. The second para-
digm is supported by the experience of reading: when readers read
poems, they sometimes have the feeling (especially with poems they
like) that the poem occupies a kind of ideal space, that it transcends
normal experience, and that the reader’s relation to it has a mystical
quality. New Criticism is based on this kind of experience of literature.
Structuralism proposes a third, and new, paradigm. It is not based
on common sense, like the first two, and so for most people it is dif-
ficult to grasp. It is, however, worth the effort, because once you have
become familiar with the paradigm, it reveals new facets of literature
and the experience of reading. What makes the new paradigm diffi-
cult is that it is based on a new way of looking at what a language is.
It was developed early in the twentieth century by the Swiss professor
of linguistics Ferdinand de Saussure; he was the inventor of struc-
tural linguistics, which is where the name “structuralism” comes
from. Saussure said that if you look at how a language functions at
any given moment, it can be seen as a system that offers you a set of
categories for understanding the world. At first it is hard to see that
this is the case with your own language, so I will give an example from
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 93
93
ch06-pt2.qxd 02/04/2007 11:22 AM Page 93
French. If you are talking to people in France, you are obliged to put
them in one of two categories: those you say vous to, and those you
address in the second-person familiar, tu. This poses some real diffi-
culties for a person coming to terms with the French language as a
mature adult. In some circles, to say tu to a person implies a consid-
erable degree of intimacy with him or her; you open yourself to the
rebuke of the other addressing you as vous. On the other hand the
person might be insulted if you used vous. So the system inherent in
the French language forces you to distinguish, publicly, between
those people you are close to and those you are not so close to. (This
is not such a problem for native speakers, who can master the system
as children.)
Any language, a structuralist would say, presents us with a vast array
of categories—but the act of dividing up the world into categories
influences how we see the world, and even what we are able to per-
ceive when we look at the world. It is said, for instance, that the Inuit
have twenty-six different words for “snow,” and as a result they can
distinguish varieties of snow that seem the same to a person whose
mother tongue is, say, English.
How does this approach help us to understand works of literature?
A structuralist might say that a novel, for instance, can best be seen
as creating a set of categories for understanding the world—and a set
of typical relations between those categories. (This is similar to hav-
ing words for different kinds of snow.) The best way to describe such
a novel is to identify the various categories and the relations between
them. Structuralists are not concerned with how the author came to
write the book or what it meant to him, nor are they interested in the
feeling of exaltation that some books give to certain readers. They
want to understand “the language of the novel,” and how this lan-
guage works. An example will help make this clear.
The Jewel in the Crown, by Paul Scott, is a fascinating and involving
book. It is concerned with the British in India, and it shows how the
British Empire and its ideology influenced life in one Indian city dur-
ing the Second World War. We are given a detailed view of how the
white people live, in their own separate section of the city, and we see
how they control the rest of the population. We are also given
glimpses of life among the Indians. It is clear in the novel that both
the English and the Indian populations are organized into caste sys-
tems, and the castes determine what an individual is and is not able to
do. Most of the characters in the book live within the boundaries of
their own race and caste. But five characters, including the two pro-
tagonists, Daphne Manners and Hari Kumar, cross the caste bound-
aries regularly, and mix with both Indians and whites. They do not live
according to the prescribed social norms. The Jewel in the Crown sug-
94 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch06-pt2.qxd 02/04/2007 11:22 AM Page 94
gests, in very clear terms, that such people are both more moral and
more vital than those who stick to their own social groups, because the
former have the courage to act in conflict with the prescribed norms.
They also place themselves in considerable danger by ignoring these
norms, and three of them suffer severely for having done so.
A structuralist critic would say of this book that one of its principal
structures is the division of people into three groups: whites who live
with whites, Indians who live with Indians, and individuals who mix
with both groups. Like a language, the novel offers us these three cat-
egories for thinking about the people in the world. It says a number
of things about how these three groups interact. We might say that
the main subject of the book is how defined social groups affect our
Structuralism (i): The Birth of a Paradigm 95
Well, I don’t see any point in looking any farther.
It was probably just one of those wild rumors.
Structuralism in action: at its best, structuralism gives you a new perspec-
tive, and allows you to see patterns in a text which are normally hidden
from view. How do the patterns in the English language affect what we are
able to say, and see? How much are we aware of them?
(Drawing by Charles Addams © Tee and Charles Addams Foundation)
ch06-pt2.qxd 02/04/2007 11:22 AM Page 95
lives, and especially how they shape relations of power and love in
our lives. Hari and Daphne fall in love with a particular intensity
because they are not limited by castes in the way most people are, but
their freedom leads to problems as well as joys.
It is worth noticing that this summary of the novel depends on iden-
tifying categories of characters. Looking for categories such as these
seems natural when you know about structural linguistics. The attrac-
tion of this kind of structural analysis is that it allows you to state in a
concise way the generating principle of the book. You penetrate
beneath the surface of the work and grasp the key idea in it. This is
rather like finding out what makes a person tick—a person you find
stimulating and mystifying. A skilled psychiatrist is good at seeing
these patterns in a person’s behaviour. A good structuralist critic is
skilled at seeing these patterns in individual texts, and the main anal-
ogy that he or she is constantly using is the model of language. When
you become familiar with the patterns present in language itself, you
begin to see them cropping up in unexpected places.
The foundation for structuralism: a new view of language
Saussure invented a new way of looking at language, and he went
through a good deal of agony in doing so—as do many people who
become involved in the early stages of a paradigm change. When
Saussure received his training in linguistics, his professors conceived
of their discipline in a fundamentally historical way. Its principal sub-
ject matter was the ways in which languages have developed over long
periods of time. An example would be the changes that occurred in
popular Latin during the early Middle Ages to transform it into the
various Romance languages, such as French, Spanish, Italian, and
Portuguese. Historical linguistics is concerned with the development
of syntax, the alterations in the meanings of words over time, and
gradual shifts in pronunciation.
All these topics have a diachronic basis: they concern changes that
occur with the passage of time. Saussure argued that certain important
aspects of a language remained hidden if the linguist looked at it
diachronically. In a letter in 1894 he wrote,
I am fed up with ... the general difficulty of writing even ten lines
of good sense on linguistic matters. For a long time I have been
above all preoccupied with the logical classification of linguistic
facts and with the classification of the points of view from which we
treat them; and I am more and more aware of the immense
amount of work that would be required to show the linguist what
he is doing.... The utter inadequacy of current terminology, the
96 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch06-pt2.qxd 02/04/2007 11:22 AM Page 96
need to reform it and, in order to do that, to demonstrate what
sort of object language is, continually spoils my pleasure in philo-
logy.... This will lead, against my will, to a book in which I shall
explain, without enthusiasm or passion, why there is not a single
term used in linguistics which has any meaning for me.1
To deal with this frustration, Saussure developed a new paradigm for
linguistics. Instead of looking at language diachronically (that is, how
it develops as centuries pass), he proposed to study it synchronically—
that is—he wanted to look at language as it functions as a system at
one particular moment in time.
Most people don’t think of language as being systematic. The com-
mon-sense attitude toward language is that it acts as a kind of trans-
parent window on whatever is being talked about. If I describe my trip
to Germany last summer, my words are supposed to let you see, more
or less, what I saw. If I describe my outrage at political corruption in
Ottawa, my words are meant to let you see what is in my mind. When
language is used well, you don’t notice it very much; it allows you to
see beyond it. It is like the windshield of a car. What Saussure was sug-
gesting, however, was that language modifies what we see, because it cre-
ates the categories we use when we describe things. My description of
Germany has something to do with what was there, but it is also influ-
enced by what I can and cannot say in the English language—and
what I can and cannot see because English is my mother tongue.
While most structuralists would admit that language to some
extent refers to the world outside, they would insist that we are likely
to see the world through the categories and relations that our lan-
guage emphasizes. So a language (such as English) is very much like
a paradigm in science: you have to use a paradigm to see the world,
but the particular paradigm you are using determines what you see.
And many people are not conscious of using a paradigm at all.
Some structuralists are interested in comparing different lan-
guages to see how those languages affect the user’s vision of the
world. English, for instance, has sentences that are based on the pat-
tern of subject-predicate, or subject-verb-object. This tends to make
users of English think in terms of individuals taking action (the active
voice) or being acted upon (the passive voice). Suppose you spoke a
language that emphasized not the opposition between action and
passiveness, but the harmony between the individual and his or her
environment, in which action was seen as initiated by the person and
the object (which seems to be acted upon) simultaneously. Then you
might think of your life in a very different way than you would as a
user of English. Instead of being primarily concerned with free will
and asserting yourself in a hostile environment, you might be more
Structuralism (i): The Birth of a Paradigm 97
ch06-pt2.qxd 02/04/2007 11:22 AM Page 97
concerned with cooperating with the people and things around you.
Your language would have been crucial in causing this difference.
Structuralism is, and is not, like science
Structuralism often has a scientific feel to it, which is partly because
it is based on linguistics, a social science. But in fact the new para-
digm for criticism suggested by structuralism is very different from
the scientific paradigm, and it is important to see why, because the
new paradigm actually liberates the humanities to pursue their own
goals without having to pretend to be scientific.
We need to go back to considering the “system” of language. The
English language has a grammar, a set of rules, which indicates how
correct sentences ought to be constructed. Anyone who knows Eng-
lish well can distinguish between a well-formed and a badly formed
sentence, even if they could not quote the actual rule of grammar
that is at stake. Unconsciously, they have a mastery of the system they
are using. To call it a system makes it sound as though it were scien-
tific in some way. But this system is unlike scientific systems because the
rules can be broken. People break the rules of grammar all the time,
and usually this does not alter the system of correct English or even
affect the meaning of their utterances. It simply means that the
speaker is probably not a member of the social group that habitually
uses correct English. Even these speakers can, if they want, break the
rules to achieve a particular desired effect, without the rules being
altered as a result. In science, any exception to a scientific law means
that the law is invalid.
Saussure expressed this difference between linguistics and science
by distinguishing between langue and parole. Parole refers to an indi-
vidual speech act—that is, to what a particular person says on a spe-
cific occasion, obeying (or breaking) the rules of grammar. Langue
refers to the system that is inherent in the language being used. Saus-
sure said that if you try to understand all the speech acts in a lan-
guage, you are doomed to failure, because many of them are idio-
syncratic and don’t follow the prescribed rules. But if you can
separate langue from parole, you can discover some very important
rules that operate in the system of langue. One of those rules is that
the rules can be broken, which indicates a fundamental difference
between the rules of grammar and the laws of science.
How does this difference liberate the humanities? Before the rise
of structuralism, much work in the humanities proceeded on a quasi-
scientific basis—that is, on the assumption that what was important
in humanistic knowledge was assembling facts and forming valid gen-
eralizations. But in a subject like English literature there are almost
98 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch06-pt2.qxd 02/04/2007 11:22 AM Page 98
no watertight generalizations, and so you are left with a lot of facts or
information that may be very limited in its interest. The same could
be said of history; and it is interesting to notice how work in English
literature done in the historical paradigm seems to have a cause-and-
effect basis. The effect is the work of literature; to find the cause you
investigate the life of the author and the times in which he lived.
With the advent of structuralism, it became clear that the human-
ities were not limited to studying diachronic cause-and-effect rela-
tionships, which reveal themselves with the passage of time. They
could also study synchronic systems as they appear in human cre-
ations and action—systems that, like a language, divide the world up
into categories and establish the relations between them. This is to
ask not “What are the causes of this work of literature?” but “What sys-
tem is present in this work of literature? What ideology does it sug-
gest? How is that ideology articulated in characteristic patterns of lan-
guage and thought? What are the important implications of this
ideology?” These questions don’t concern facts and scientific truths;
they are about how human beings act, and (often) how they form
themselves into groups. They concern systems that can be seen to be
functioning at a particular moment in time.
Structuralists use the idea of language as a model for understand-
ing systems inherent in social practices, and rules of grammar pro-
vide a particularly helpful analogy. Many activities have implicit rules
that an educated person is aware of even though she may not pay
much conscious attention to them. There are rules about what dishes
can be served in combination in a formal dinner, and rules about the
sequence in which they appear. Anyone serving dessert before the
main course would be thought eccentric. Serving the salad before
the main course is not normal in France, although it is acceptable in
polite society in North America. There are also rules about what
clothes can be worn together in business circles, while breaking these
very rules may be required by other social groups. All these rules can
be seen as the “grammar” of eating or of dressing.
Someone unimpressed with structuralism might ask, “What is so
attractive about the patterns inherent in language and an obsession
with grammar and rules? It seems narrow-minded, technical, and dis-
connected from the important issues in life—particularly emotions.”
The answer could be, “What is especially interesting about language
is that we all possess remarkable sophistication in using it, and we are
endlessly original in what we produce when we write or speak. We
can distinguish between correct and incorrect usages when we hear
them, but we do this unconsciously. There is a system in place, but
you don’t have to be aware of the system in order to use it perfectly
well. With language, it is possible to move from the surface level (that
Structuralism (i): The Birth of a Paradigm 99
ch06-pt2.qxd 02/04/2007 11:22 AM Page 99
is, understanding words and sentences) to a deep level (understand-
ing the underlying rules). Literary critics who use structuralism feel
we can do the same with works of literature: we can choose to read
them on the surface level, or go below the surface and grasp the gen-
erating principles of a work—its grammar, so to speak. This is an
exciting possibility.”
In addition, if language structures our world and our perceptions
without our being aware of it, there is a possibility of understanding
ourselves much better if we can raise this system to consciousness.
For someone investigating his or her use of language, the questions
structuralism raises can have fascinating personal significance. Lan-
guage is the means by which we know (or divine) the most intimate
and essential aspects of ourselves and the people we care about.
Structuralism has influenced some kinds of psychoanalysis by focus-
ing on the verbal qualities of the unconscious mind, and on how our
unconscious knowledge of language affects our conscious activities.
What does structuralism tell us about our feelings? It will appear to
some readers that it takes a highly intellectual approach to literature,
and so stifles or ignores the emotions. But at its best structuralism
helps us understand our feelings better, and the assumptions on
which they are based. As an example, consider the response of one of
my students reading The French Lieutenant’s Woman for the first time,
when he came to the end of the book, and discovered that there are
two radically different endings. This student felt intensely frustrated
that there was no clear winding-up of the book, and that he did not
know what actually happened in the end. Did Sarah Woodruff and
Charles Smithson get married, or not? Why does the author make
such an effort to say that one ending is just as probable as the other?
A structuralist would analyse this response as follows: the student
reading this book was accustomed to novels that had clear endings,
and usually the endings solved the problems that the novels had
posed. In the same way that we expect a good sentence to have a sub-
ject and a verb, this student expected a good novel to have one end-
ing, and a satisfying one. It was part of this student’s ideology that the
best novels follow problems through to their conclusions, yet here
was a widely acclaimed novel that had broken this rule. In fact, this
student thought that well-formed lives reached proper conclusions,
too: he looked forward to a career ending with a position of some
responsibility and honour, and to acquiring some wisdom in old age,
which would help him face the challenge posed by death. To help
him plan his moves in the future, he sometimes thought of his own
life in a fictionalized way, writing (as it were) the novel of his life.
A structuralist would say that the classical novel usually does reach
a satisfying conclusion—that is one of the rules of the genre. But with
100 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch06-pt2.qxd 02/04/2007 11:22 AM Page 100
the rise of postmodernism, authors have begun to question their
godlike status, and have stopped feeling obliged to lay out everything
normally for the reader. So the “open ending” has come to be an
acceptable conclusion for a book, and it has even been defended as
being more lifelike than the closed ending, because life itself is usu-
ally open-ended: we often have choices to make, and we may be
unsure about which of several courses of action to choose. What my
student was looking for in a novel, perhaps, was that sense of satisfy-
ing finality that was lacking in his own life, and when he was denied
it he felt frustrated.
The French Lieutenant’s Woman breaks the rules of the classical novel
in this respect. But that does not mean that the rules no longer exist.
It is still possible to write classical novels, and most recent novels have
closed endings. But Fowles, and many other postmodernist writers,
have created a new set of rules for “postmodern fiction,” and those
rules are a reflection of a new ideology, in which the author explicitly
leaves a major part of the creation of the work of art to the reader. My
student was frustrated because the book’s ideology did not mesh with
his own. But he was glad (in a way) that this book had made him
aware of his own ideological assumptions in this area, and after
rereading the book he found it easier to accept the new convention.
Expanding the scope of analysis beyond the individual work
So far we have considered structuralism as it might apply to the analy-
sis of a single work of literature, and I have suggested that a novel or
a poem can be seen to provide us with a set of categories (like a sub-
language) for describing certain kinds of experience. This is the
most useful aspect of structuralism for most undergraduates, because
they can readily apply it in essays and in understanding works of lit-
erature. But many structuralists are highly ambitious thinkers who
want to expand their horizons beyond the limits of single individual
works. One reason why structuralism seemed an attractive alternative
to New Criticism was that it permitted “larger” questions to be raised.
It is possible, for instance, to expand your horizons to include all
the works by a given author. Then you would be looking for struc-
tures, or oppositions, or categories, that run through the whole of an
author’s oeuvre. You could spend several years developing a struc-
turalist analysis of a major author’s work. Often this kind of analysis
is related to finding patterns in the author’s personality, although
structuralists prefer to think about “texts” rather than about authors.
Nevertheless, the fact that Wordsworth consistently opposes the value
of living in the country with the human frustration involved in living
in big cities seems to indicate something substantial about his own
Structuralism (i): The Birth of a Paradigm 101
ch06-pt2.qxd 02/04/2007 11:22 AM Page 101
psyche. A frequent image in Stendhal’s novels is that of someone
looking down from a height to see a pattern in the world below. Does
this indicate that Stendhal liked the feeling of distance, or does it
reveal the kind of understanding that comes from seeing things from
a distance as opposed to being plunged into the middle of events? If
a structuralist analysis can shed light on the prevailing ideology in an
author’s work, then it seems a short step to ascribe this ideology to
the author. The main point, however, is not that Stendhal the man
had a certain way of seeing the world, but that a certain ideology is
present (as an organizing principle) in his works. As we saw in Chap-
ter 4, identifying ideologies is satisfying because it allows us to see
unconscious assumptions in a work, and appreciate it in a new way.
It is possible to extend the scope of structuralist analysis to a whole
genre, and to define a genre in terms of certain repeated structures. For
example, Vladimir Propp, one of the Russian formalists, did a famous
analysis of the Russian folk tale, in which he pointed out that these tales
follow consistent patterns. Similarly, some popular literary forms, such as
the romance novel or the detective story, are based on simple, identifi-
able structures, and on character roles that can be easily described in
general terms, such as the hero (or “quester”), the “object of the quest,”
the “persons blocking the quest,” and the “persons aiding the quester.”
A final expansion of this kind of analysis would be to analyse the dis-
course of a whole period, and to find constant categories and struc-
tures of oppositions that characterize it. In the Romantic period in
England, many authors put a particularly high value on exceptional
and intense experiences. Wordsworth often talked about “spots of
time,” referring to moments in his childhood of which he had a par-
ticularly vivid memory; Coleridge sometimes privileged intense feel-
ings of guilt; and Keats was often concerned with “timeless moments.”
These unusual experiences can be contrasted with the normal hap-
penings in everyday life. One kind of structural analysis would be to
investigate this kind of opposition in the literature of a period.
The ultimate ambition of a manic structuralist would be to identify
the basic structures in the human mind itself—structures that (ide-
ally) might account for the general patterns in human culture every-
where. Not many undergraduates will be involved in this kind of
search, and it may seem futile to many people. Perhaps at this point
it is wise to remember Paul Valéry’s observation: “L’homme est fou
par ce qu’il cherche, et grand par ce qu’il trouve.”2
Why structuralism can seem dehumanizing
In some notable cases structuralism can seem dehumanizing and off-
putting. There seems to be something “inhuman” about structures:
102 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch06-pt2.qxd 02/04/2007 11:22 AM Page 102
they sound almost machine-like, obsessively repeating themselves,
whether in a single work, in the oeuvre of a single author, or in the
whole of a culture. We don’t like to think of ourselves as caught in a
repeating pattern, and we especially think of creative writers (at the
level of genius) as being able to transcend such patterns to make
something new and fresh.
Structuralist analysis often does identify limitations in the work of
an author—perhaps limitations not evident before—and this may
have the effect of convincing us that the author is less free than we
had thought. Structuralist analysis can be a bit like psychoanalysis, in
that it highlights patterns that the subject may not have been con-
scious of. For example, the character David Staunton, in Robertson
Davies’s novel The Manticore, discovers during psychoanalysis certain
patterns in his life of which he has been unconscious. Staunton’s ana-
lyst points out his tendency to isolate himself from others, and to
assume a romantic and mysterious role as a courtroom lawyer; she
also makes him realize he is using alcohol to deaden the pain in his
life. Staunton seems less impressive in some ways when he has been
through analysis, but the reader can see that Staunton has come to
have a much better grip on his own life.3
Similarly, it is a definite thrust of structuralism to show that authors
follow certain patterns, but it is a mistake to think that patterns are
necessarily limiting. If you think of the patterns imposed on action in
the game of tennis, you will see that within those patterns there are
an infinite number of shots, and tennis does not become boring
because of restrictions about where you can hit the ball. On the con-
trary, these restrictions in one sense create the possibility of playing
the game, and of enjoying yourself in that way. The same is true of
language. Languages have definite rules, but even when you obey
those rules, you have virtually infinite freedom to create new sen-
tences. Still, it is useful to know what the rules are. Then you know
when you are breaking them, and what the consequences are likely
to be. One of the main goals of literary critics is to understand why
important books are powerful and inspiring. Discovering the pat-
terns in these books is a normal way to achieve this, and sometimes it
will involve seeing a book’s limitations.
Structuralism leads, in a general sense, to ideology. Our ideology
might be said to be made up of the rules we follow without knowing
that they are rules, because they seem to represent the “natural” way
of doing things.
Another way in which structuralism may seem dehumanizing is
that structuralists sometimes suggest that individual people are
“made up of” ideologies, and that if you describe the ideologies that
make up a particular person in enough detail, you will be able to
Structuralism (i): The Birth of a Paradigm 103
ch06-pt2.qxd 02/04/2007 11:22 AM Page 103
define that person completely. This would seem to suggest that an
individual does not exist in his or her own right. A theme frequently
repeated in structuralist writings is that “the subject has ceased to
exist,” because the subject (that is, an individual person) is only the
site of operation of various ideologies. It is important to look care-
fully at a statement such as this, so as to see what its real implications
are. How threatening is it?
Most reflective people would admit that their identities are partly
a result of their adherence or allegiance to certain ideologies or
forms of thought. People with firm religious beliefs are usually quite
happy to acknowledge this, but it is also true of people who are not
conscious of adopting any particular ideology. Most arts students in
North American universities are living in a liberal humanist world,
and think in terms of liberal humanism, even though many of them
may not be aware of this fact. Even though we live within a set of con-
straints established by the language we speak, or the traditions and
ideologies we have inherited, this does not mean that we do not have
wide freedoms. The aim of structuralist analysis in this area is to
point out that we are not completely free to do anything we like. A
very revealing project is to work out the constraints that are actually
operating in individual situations. For instance, when you read a
novel and are very moved by it, that may feel like an intensely per-
sonal experience. But to what extent is the emotion you feel the
result of certain easily definable assumptions that you share with the
author about what can and cannot be done in a novel? There are
some limitations on what the author can do, and those limitations
help him communicate with you.
Why structuralism attracted adherents
When structuralism first became current in the 1960s, it entered
Western intellectual life, which was in many ways fragmented and
atomized. Research universities, modelled on German institutions
developed in the nineteenth century, were divided into departments
that were isolated from one another, and staffed by specialist profes-
sors encouraged by the university system to discover or generate
“new” knowledge. Literature and history departments pursued
research programs often focused on massive accumulation of detail.
Philosophy departments were dominated by the agendas of linguistic
philosophy and logical positivism.
Structuralism was unusual, and a breath of fresh air to many intel-
lectuals, because its fundamental orientation was holistic and integra-
tive rather than analytical and dispersive. Its fundamental impulse was
to search for wholes, for unity. In literary studies, this implied looking
104 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch06-pt2.qxd 02/04/2007 11:22 AM Page 104
for what holds the parts of a work together, or what unites the works
of a single author. Looking for “structures” is a powerful way to do
this. It involves some intellectual distance from the parts of the work,
but the reward is huge if you feel you have captured the essence or the
kernel that lies behind the surface, and holds the work together.4
The main effect of structuralism, when it developed in France in the
1960s, was to shift the emphasis in literary studies from history (and his-
torical criticism), and from the words on the page (New Criticism), to
two new areas: ideology and interpretation. Since language was the
new dominant image, structuralist critics were less interested in finding
“the truth” about a literary text (what circumstances really produced it,
or what it really meant); they were more concerned to find out what
“language a text was speaking”—what categories it proposed for under-
standing the world—and what ideology that “language” conveyed.
Languages, like paradigms, are neither true nor false. They cannot
be evaluated in an objective way. They can, however, be evaluated sub-
jectively, according to how satisfying they are for a particular person
(or group) to speak. An important aspect of your interpretation of a
work of literature will be your decision about whether you want to
adopt its “language,” that is, accept and use the categories it proposes
for understanding life.5 That decision will probably depend to some
extent on the categories you are currently in the habit of using, and
so interpretation becomes a matter of relations between languages.
“Relations between languages” may sound like a complex idea to
use when talking about works of literature, but in the 1970s it sug-
gested two attractive possibilities: that the complexity would allow
(and indeed promote) a better understanding of literature, and that
it would encourage investigation of the way the reader participated
in the institution of literature. In the 1980s structuralism caught and
held the attention of many of the best minds in the world of literary
criticism. There was also resistance and opposition to structuralism,
sometimes fierce and bitter. But in hindsight it seems clear that struc-
turalism added many useful tools for understanding literature, some
of which we will explore in the following chapters. Also the way for-
ward (to deconstruction and post-colonial criticism, for instance)
passed through, and not around, structuralism.
Notes
1 Quoted by Jonathan Culler in his Ferdinand de Saussure (1976; Ithaca:
Cornell University Press, 1986) 23-24; emphasis in original.
2 A full translation of this sentence might be: “A person may be considered
insane if the object of his search is on a grand scale, but he will be con-
sidered great if he is successful in finding it.”
Structuralism (i): The Birth of a Paradigm 105
ch06-pt2.qxd 02/04/2007 11:22 AM Page 105
3 Robertson Davies, The Manticore (Toronto: Macmillan, 1972).
4 Robert Scholes discusses the holistic impulse inherent in structuralism in
Chapter 1 of Structuralism in Literature, and how it counteracted the frag-
mentation of knowledge in the previous century. Scholes sees Marxism
as the other powerfully integrative movement of the period, but he says
that it had lost a lot of its credibility. In this book Scholes presents struc-
turalism almost as an outlook that could “save the world.”
5 Feminist critics have often objected to the stereotyping of women in the
works of some authors whose works seem to suggest that women are inca-
pable of intelligent reflection on experience. In the “language” of such
authors, the word “woman” may carry the connotation of “impulsive and
emotional.” Naturally, most women would not want to adopt the lan-
guage of such an author. Similarly, in the novels of some feminist
authors, men are regularly presented as being stupid and aggressive.
Questions to help you check your understanding of this chapter
1 By far the biggest challenge in understanding structuralist literary criti-
cism is to see what is new about structural linguistics (as developed by
Saussure, in reaction to historical linguistics), and then to see how the
systematic patterns that Saussure discovered in language can be applied
metaphorically to literature. Try to explain this two-stage process.
2 Explain the parallel between words in a language, and categories (of
characters, for instance) in a novel.
3 Explain the paradox that a language can have a system as its founda-
tion, that the system can have rules, and that the rules can be broken with-
out destroying the system.
4 Explain the paradox that sometimes the rules of a system (or a game)
can limit and oppress you, and at other times the rules can create new
possibilities and freedoms for you.
Suggestions for further reading
Jonathan Culler, Structuralist Poetics (London: Routledge and Kegan Paul,
1975). This is a good, full, and detailed introduction to structuralism, writ-
ten in a very clear manner.
Fredric Jameson, The Prison-House of Language: A Critical Account of Structural-
ism and Russian Formalism (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1972).
Robert Scholes, Structuralism in Literature (New Haven, CT: Yale University
Press, 1974).
John Sturrock (ed.), Structuralism and Since: From Lévi-Strauss to Derrida
(Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1979). This contains good thirty-page
essays on Claude Lévi-Strauss (by Dan Sperber), Roland Barthes (by John
Sturrock), Michel Foucault (by Hayden White), Jacques Lacan (by Mal-
colm Bowie), and Jacques Derrida (by Jonathan Culler).
106 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch06-pt2.qxd 02/04/2007 11:22 AM Page 106
CHAPTER SEVEN
Structuralism (ii):
Syntagmatic and Paradigmatic Relations
A hallmark of structuralism is that it is much more concerned with the
relations between things than with things considered in isolation. It is the
relations between things that establish the existence of a system, and the
rules of the system determine what is likely to happen in that system.
This tendency is easy to see in the case of family constellations. In
a family with three sons spaced two years apart from one another, it
may be a rule of the system that the oldest boy normally dominates
the other two, and tends to get his way when conflicts arise. Of course
this person will have an identity apart from his siblings, but a large
part of his identity may well be the result of his immersion in that
family system for a long time. This kind of identity is sometimes
referred to as “relational identity”—something created by (and to
some extent dependent on) a system of human relations. In later life
this oldest child may find himself happiest when he can recreate the
system in which he grew up—that is, a system in which he can domi-
nate the people around him. Such a man might make an excellent
chief executive officer in a company, but do poorly as a vice-president,
because his relational identity makes it difficult for him to submit to
the direct authority and supervision of another person.
Because structuralism uses language as the master model for
understanding the world, it is especially concerned with relations
between words, and with the systems in languages that set up those rela-
tions. In linguistics there are two fundamentally different kinds of
relations between words, syntagmatic relations and paradigmatic rela-
tions. Although these technical words may seem somewhat formida-
ble, the reward of learning how to use them is ample, because they
introduce an extremely powerful distinction that can be applied to
many situations in both literature and life.
The adjective “syntagmatic” comes from two Greek words that
mean “to put together in the right order.” The syntagmatic rules in
English grammar (that is, the rules of syntax) tell you how to put
words together in the right order so a sentence sounds correct. So a
syntagmatic relation exists between any two items that are together,
side by side, in a well-ordered grouping. Sometimes the grouping is
spread out in a linear way, like a chain; this is true of sentences. In
cases like these, there are syntagmatic relations between a link in the
chain and the links that come immediately before and after it.
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 107
107
ch07.qxd 05/04/2007 4:12 PM Page 107
It is possible to think of a number of groupings that have this chain-
like structure. Someone once said that life consisted essentially of
birth, copulation, and death. We might want to add more items to this
chain, but it is clear that the order is important. It would be an error
in the “syntax of life” to say that life consisted of death, birth, and cop-
ulation. A second example could be found in the flight path of a plane
making the journey from Toronto to Moscow. There would be a syn-
tagmatic relation between the cities where it lands on the way to its
final destination. A well-formed sequence would be Halifax, London,
Frankfurt, Warsaw, Moscow. If two of these were reversed, you would
suspect that something was drastically wrong with the flight—a hijack-
ing, for instance. A third example of a syntagmatic chain could be
found in the career path of a successful business executive. The chain
would be made up of the positions that he or she filled in succession.
Paradigmatic relations have a very different quality from syntag-
matic relations. We can think of a paradigm as a kind of model or a
pattern. Things that have the same basic form or pattern, or are made
on the same model, have a paradigmatic relation to one another. The
essence of a syntagmatic relation is being next to, or contiguity. The
essence of a paradigmatic relation is similarity. So we could say that
there is a paradigm for the literary genre of tragedy, and all tragedies
that conform to this paradigm have a paradigmatic relation to one
another. There is a generally accepted paradigm for “falling in love,”
and we can often recognize, with very little evidence, when this expe-
rience has happened in the life of someone we know. There is a para-
digm for sports cars, and we can feel the paradigmatic relation
between a Boxster and a Corvette. Often when you have a choice to
make in your life, such as which university to go to, the items you are
choosing between have a paradigmatic relation to one another: you
could substitute them for one another in the “sentence” that you are
making up of your life, and the sentence would still be “well formed.”
I will now turn to syntagmatic and paradigmatic relations in sen-
tences. In order to make English sentences that are well-formed and
effective in communicating, you have to engage in two kinds of men-
tal activity, one syntagmatic and one paradigmatic. The syntagmatic
activity is a matter of being able to construct the sentence as a whole,
with (let us say) a subject, a verb, an object, and an adverbial phrase:
David hurled the stone at Goliath.
[subject] [verb] [object] [adverbial phrase]
The paradigmatic mental activity is a matter of choosing the appro-
priate item (from a number of possibilities) in each part of the sen-
108 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch07.qxd 05/04/2007 4:12 PM Page 108
tence. “David” could be replaced by “the youth” or “the Israelite boy”
but not by “the man.” “Stone” could be “pebble” or “small rock” but
it couldn’t be “boulder.”
There is medical evidence suggesting that syntagmatic and para-
digmatic operations take place in different parts of the brain; some
kinds of brain damage impair one kind of operation without affect-
ing the other greatly. Although the distinction between syntagmatic
and paradigmatic relations comes originally from linguistics, its
importance for students of literature is that it allows us to describe
the difference between the feelings generated by different texts. We
can approach this area by applying the distinction to different kinds
of mind.
Why does this matter? Syntagmatic and paradigmatic minds at work
It helps to distinguish between syntagmatic and paradigmatic rela-
tions because different people make use of them in different ways,
and some authors think and write in a more paradigmatic way than
others. This tendency can have a powerful effect on their works, and
on our responses to those works.
Suppose you meet a close friend whom you haven’t seen since
the day before, and you ask her to tell you what she has been
doing. If she has a mind that tends to work in a predominantly syn-
tagmatic way, she will probably run through what has happened to
her in the last twenty-four hours in a sequential chain: “I got up
early and played a game of squash, I went shopping for groceries,
then I studied in the library. I had lunch, then Barry came over and
we played bridge with two other friends.” She will probably leave
out trivial details, but the sequence of the events will dominate her
presentation. If she has an extremely syntagmatic mind, when she
expands on some incident, she will do it by going into finer detail
about that item. “I studied in the library” could become “I
returned some overdue books, went up to the reading room, got a
book which I had been looking for off the reserve shelf, rubbed
out the pencil markings which someone else had put in it,” and so
on. Normally people won’t expand items unless you show some
particular interest.
If your friend’s mind tends to work in a paradigmatic way, she is
much more likely to pick out particular experiences for emphasis,
and then she will probably link them with other experiences which
are similar. If playing squash was the high point of the day, then she
might think of other games she has played that had been as exciting
or exhausting. If playing squash and playing bridge seemed similar to
Structuralism (ii): Syntagmatic and Paradigmatic Relations 109
ch07.qxd 05/04/2007 4:12 PM Page 109
her, she might remark on that. She might say, “I played squash with
Suzie and it was so much fun. I always feel great when I play squash.
In the afternoon, bridge with Barry and his friends was sort of the
same, in a strange way.” A paradigmatic mind is like a helicopter,
always able to move vertically, looking for parallels, similarities, and
contrasts; a syntagmatic mind seems more like a mouse making its
way across a wheat field, moving slowly and sticking to the same
plane.
This example may make the syntagmatic thinker seem less enga-
ging than the paradigmatic thinker, so two qualifications are in order.
The first is that any recounting of a day’s experience will make use of
both syntagmatic moving from point to point and paradigmatic leaps
that illustrate similarities and indicate patterns. Nevertheless, there is
a definite difference in feel between the two kinds of thinker.
The second qualification is that the syntagmatic, close-to-the-
ground thinker is more likely to provide a concrete feeling of what
is being described and a strong sense of context and texture. This
gives you a better sense of being there, which may or may not be use-
ful, depending on the case. A problem with some paradigmatic
thinkers is that they leap around so much from point to point that
they seem always to be in the air, never touching ground with real-
ity. Philosophers sometimes give me that feeling, and, when they do,
I often sense that their philosophies are liable to be irrelevant to me.
Some literary theorists do the same thing, and lose touch with feel-
ing or with the need of the audience to be in touch with concrete
reality.
A person who is aware of the differences between syntagmatic and
paradigmatic thinking, and who is reasonably flexible, can con-
sciously choose which of the two kinds of thinking to engage in at
any particular moment. Sometimes you may become aware that what
you are saying needs to be more firmly grounded in concrete expe-
rience. That is the time to engage in syntagmatic thinking, which
should help you to provide a concrete and physical sense of the sit-
uation you are describing. Sometimes, on the other hand, you may
feel that what you are talking about is becoming clogged down in
particular details, and that your account would be more illuminat-
ing if you related what you are describing to other, similar experi-
ences—especially experiences that the other person might share.
That is the time to shift to paradigmatic thinking. (If in telling your
friend about your squash game you sense that you are losing her, you
might draw a parallel with how much she enjoys basketball.) An
important aspect of good essay-writing is knowing when to shift from
one mode to the other. Usually near the beginning of an essay you
110 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch07.qxd 05/04/2007 4:12 PM Page 110
will want to give a plan or a paradigm for the whole essay. Often just
before the end of the essay you will want to indicate the broad sig-
nificance of what you are saying by suggesting further paradigmatic
leaps. In between you will probably want to present a closely rea-
soned argument, with a strong syntactical drive and a firm connec-
tion with the real world.
Paradigmatic thinking, obsession, and allegory
There are both conscious and unconscious reasons for engaging in
paradigmatic thinking. If some past event or experience has made a
deep impression on you, it might provide your basic orientation to
your life, and you might see what happens to you (in the present) in
terms of what has happened in the past. Suppose you are a young
man whose mother abandoned your father when you were in your
teens, and further suppose that your older brother has also been
abandoned by a woman. It would be likely that the paradigm of the
abandoned man would make a strong impression on you, and you
might always see relations between men and women as fraught with
the danger of abandonment. This would tend to make you interpret
events paradigmatically, by referring them back to the narratives of
your father and brother.
The pattern could just as easily be a more attractive one. Suppose
you ran a small business at your high school very successfully: you
had the experience of getting a number of people to work together
in a creative and satisfying way, which helped your clients and made
money as well. This experience might become a part of a pattern that
you try to repeat in your adult life, and it might be the basis for some
very significant achievements. Your guide for what you were doing
would then be the pattern you experienced as a teenager.
For some people, important patterns in their lives may be supplied
by literature itself. This was, for instance, the intention of the ancient
Greeks, who used The Iliad and The Odyssey for teaching models of
desirable behaviour to adolescents. Roland Barthes reported that
Marcel Proust’s enormous novel, À la recherche du temps perdu, pro-
vided him with the essential framework for his understanding of life.
Some professors choose books for courses that they think can fulfil
this function for students, such as Charles Dickens’s Great Expectations
or Mordecai Richler’s The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz. These are
both stories of young men growing up, and they may prove irrelevant
to many members of the class, especially (perhaps) the women.
When does a pattern become an obsession? That is a difficult ques-
tion, but people with obsessions are in some ways closed to new expe-
Structuralism (ii): Syntagmatic and Paradigmatic Relations 111
ch07.qxd 05/04/2007 4:12 PM Page 111
riences because they cannot help but refer everything to those obses-
sions. If you are obsessed by the need for cleanliness and order, you
will spend a lot of your energy trying to tidy up dirt and disorder. If
you are obsessed with Romeo and Juliet, you may associate romantic
love with death. But in both these cases, you will make sense of your
life by referring to your obsession, and you may not notice something
important if it does not relate to that obsession. Obsession represents
paradigmatic thinking taken to an extreme.
Allegory is a literary form that has some of the features of obses-
sion about it. In an allegory a story is told on two levels at once—or,
to put it another way, there are two stories with a paradigmatic rela-
tion between them. In Animal Farm, George Orwell tells a story about
farmyard animals, but the novel is meant to reflect the events of the
Russian Revolution. Each narrative casts light on the other. A reader
who is conscious of this parallel shifts back and forth (vertically) from
one narrative to the other while moving through the story. Allegory
is a powerful device, because an event on the farm can suggest by
implication something about the Russian Revolution. Allegory is also
an opportunity for a virtuoso display of literary talent, since it is dif-
ficult for the author to keep both stories progressing in a convincing
way, and at the same time have the events in one story illuminate the
events in the other. Dr Faustus, by Thomas Mann, is a masterpiece of
allegory, in which the descent into madness of Adrian Leverkühn,
the composer, is a way of talking about how Germany fell into the
hands of the Nazis.
Paradigmatic thinking and metaphor
Metaphor represents one of the main ways in which paradigmatic
thinking occurs in literature. When a writer uses a metaphor, she
implies that there is a similarity between two different things or
events. When Macbeth says,
Out, out brief candle!
Life’s but a walking shadow, a poor player
That struts and frets his hour upon the stage
And then is heard no more ...
Shakespeare is using three metaphors, suggesting the following
parallels or comparisons:
A person’s life can come to an end suddenly, as a candle can be
blown out by a gust of wind;
112 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch07.qxd 05/04/2007 4:12 PM Page 112
Life is insubstantial in the way that a shadow is;
A man living his life is like an actor who has only a brief period on
the stage. After life, or the play, is over, no more is heard from him.
These four lines from Macbeth suggest some of the emotional power
of metaphor, because this device can, in a highly condensed way, use
different images (the candle, the shadow, the actor’s profession) to
express how Macbeth is feeling about his own life.
Metaphor is one of the ways in which language is used “figura-
tively,” that is, not literally. Metaphor always departs from the literal
truth (life is not really a walking shadow) in order to convey a par-
ticular feeling. Some people criticize metaphor for not being logical
(because it is not logically correct to say that life is a walking shadow),
but for poets it is often more important to convey feeling than to be
logical or literal. The point of writing poetry (and prose, too) is often
to influence readers’ feelings as well as their thoughts, and so it is
easy to justify the use of metaphor.
Most people do not use metaphor much in speaking, and it is strik-
ing when you hear a series of metaphors flowing through someone’s
speech. Sometimes this occurs when the speaker is engaged with
some particular field of activity—naval officers, for instance, some-
times use nautical metaphors a great deal, even when talking about
things that have nothing to do with the sea. It is rare for people to
use a wide variety of metaphors, and perhaps this is due to the impor-
tance we attribute to one kind of scientific discourse, which strives to
be logical and literal as much as possible. If you want to be “right,”
you probably want to be literal. But creative scientists, working at the
fronts of their fields, can have highly metaphorical minds, and new
discoveries are often the result of seeing information in a new way
that is suggested by a new metaphor or a new model. So paradigmatic
thinking can be important in science as well as in literature.
Metaphor and metonymy
Metaphor stresses the vertical axis of language, substituting one
image for another because they are similar. There is another figure
of speech, known as metonymy, which is based on what might be
called “horizontal substitution.” The distinction between metaphor
and metonymy is a powerful and interesting one. In metonymy you
substitute for one word (or idea) another word that represents some-
thing nearby in space or time. If you say, “Washington decided to
oppose free trade; Ottawa was furious,” you are not referring literally
Structuralism (ii): Syntagmatic and Paradigmatic Relations 113
ch07.qxd 05/04/2007 4:12 PM Page 113
to the two cities; you are using their names to indicate the two gov-
ernments located in those cities. If you read a newspaper headline
that says, “The Crown denies rumours about Prince Andrew,” you
know that “the Crown” is a metonymical substitution for the Queen
or one of her representatives. A literary history might state, “The
eighteenth century distrusted enthusiasm”; here metonymy works
through a shift in time rather than in space. The literally true state-
ment that corresponds to this one might read, “Certain influential
thinkers and moralists who flourished during the eighteenth century
distrusted enthusiasm.”
The distinction between metaphor and metonymy is similar in
some ways to the distinction between paradigmatic relations and syn-
tagmatic relations.
VERTICAL HORIZONTAL
similarity (or contrast) contiguity in space or time
paradigmatic relations syntagmatic relations
metaphor metonymy
This general contrast between the vertical and the horizontal (or
between metaphor and metonymy) has been used brilliantly by
David Lodge in a brief and suggestive article, “Modernism, Anti-
modernism and Postmodernism.”1 According to Lodge, it is possible
to map the literary history of the twentieth century based on the
swings back and forth between literature that is essentially
metaphoric (for example, James Joyce and T.S. Eliot) and literature
that is essentially metonymic (for example, W.H. Auden and George
Orwell). Metaphoric writers sometimes use vertical parallels between
what they are presenting and earlier works of literature (for example,
Joyce modelled his Ulysses on The Odyssey); they emphasize the power
of form; and they see art as aspiring to the condition of music (which
usually does not refer to the actual world in a concrete way).
Metonymic writers try to imitate the actual world in their works; they
are more concerned with truth than with formal perfection; and they
see art as aspiring to the condition of history (which achieves much
of its force through concrete references to the details of social and
political life).
We can also distinguish between metonymic and metaphoric writ-
ers in terms of the different feelings of entrapment that they some-
times convey. The metonymic writer tends to pay more attention to
the details of the actual world than the metaphorical writer, and so
she may seem more a captive of a particular place and time. A
114 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch07.qxd 05/04/2007 4:12 PM Page 114
metaphorical writer often seems to imply that you can escape from
any particular world along a vertical, paradigmatic axis. In Ulysses,
Joyce is dealing with Dublin in 1904; but he is also recalling classical
Greece and The Odyssey. With a metaphorical writer you might feel
trapped by a particular set of parallels (which might represent the
author’s obsessions), but you are not trapped by a particular place
and time. These two kinds of entrapment feel very different, and a
person who likes metaphoric literature may feel claustrophobic when
reading about some particular corner of the world, with all its arbi-
trary detail. But, on the other hand, if an account of a scene contains
a lot of detail, this may help the reader get out of his normal para-
digmatic concerns.
The metonymic impulse can also be clearly seen in a lot of mod-
ern advertising, in which a product is made to seem attractive
because an attractive person is using it. An advertisement for Scotch
cannot suggest its particular taste, so instead we are shown the beau-
tiful, interesting, and successful people who drink it. The implication
is a purely metonymic one: the glamour of an attractive person is
transferred to the Scotch; and by drinking the same kind of Scotch
(the advertisement implies) you can acquire some of that glamour
yourself. The variations played on this theme in advertising show that
metonymy is alive and well, although it is not frequently used as a
figure of speech in conversation or even in literary language.
Certain writers subscribe to the validity of metonymy in much the
same way that advertising agencies do. The nineteenth-century
French novelist Honoré de Balzac is a case in point. He clearly
believes that to a great extent an individual is defined by the things
that surround her, and so, in Père Goriot, he begins with a long
description of the boarding-house owned by Mme. Vauquer. At one
point he says,
Madame Vauquer is at home in its stuffy air, she can breathe with-
out being sickened by it. Her face, fresh with the chill freshness of
the first frosty autumn day, her wrinkled eyes, her expression, vary-
ing from the conventional set smile of the ballet-dancer to the sour
frown of the discounter of bills, her whole person, in short, provides a
clue to the boarding-house, just as the boarding-house implies the existence
of such a person as she is.2
Some people believe that a person can be adequately described by
the house she lives in and the objects she possesses, so it is clear that
a metonymic mind fits most easily with a particular outlook on life.
At the opposite extreme is the religious mind, which sees the partic-
Structuralism (ii): Syntagmatic and Paradigmatic Relations 115
ch07.qxd 05/04/2007 4:12 PM Page 115
ular circumstances surrounding a person as relatively unimportant
and envisages human life as presided over by a heavenly world, cor-
responding paradigmatically (to some extent) to this world.
The distinction between the metonymic mind and the metaphoric
mind can be clearly seen if we contrast the paragraph by Balzac
quoted above with the following paragraph by James Joyce, from A
Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. Here Stephen Dedalus is thinking
about his own surname, which refers to the craftsman in Greek
mythology who constructed two sets of wings that would allow him
and his son to fly like birds, and so escape from Crete, the island
where they were being kept prisoners by a tyrant. Stephen Dedalus
wants to do something similar in order to escape from the restrictions
placed on him in Ireland, and so the story of the Greek Daedalus hov-
ers above the narrative and acts as a paradigm for the story.
Now, as never before, his strange name seemed to him a prophecy.
So timeless seemed the grey warm air, so fluid and impersonal his
own mood, that all ages were as one to him.... Now, at the name of
the fabulous artificer [Daedalus], he seemed to hear the noise of
dim waves and to see a winged form flying above the waves and
slowly climbing the air. What did it mean? Was it a quaint device
opening a page of some medieval book of prophecies and symbols,
a hawk-like man flying sunward above the sea, a prophecy of the
end he had been born to serve and had been following through
the mists of childhood and boyhood, a symbol of the artist forging
anew in his workshop out of the sluggish matter of the earth a new
soaring impalpable imperishable being?3
The paradigmatic feeling in this passage is strong, emphasized as it is
by the telescoping of time, so that “all ages were as one to him.” This
allows the myth of Daedalus to come forward into the present, to act
as a pattern for the development of Stephen Dedalus as the artist;
and the medieval image of “a hawk-like man flying sunward above
the sea” also comes to life. The paradigmatic mind jumps over time
and space in search of parallels and similarities, and Stephen uses his
own paradigmatic tendencies to liberate himself from the restraints
imposed on him at home by his family, his religion, and his country.
How to use the distinction between syntagmatic and paradigmatic
relations
The distinction between syntagmatic and paradigmatic relations is
particularly useful because it can help us distinguish between two
116 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch07.qxd 05/04/2007 4:12 PM Page 116
habits of mind. The syntagmatic mind is tied more closely to the con-
crete world and the actual connections in time and space that exist
there. The paradigmatic mind is tied more closely to key ideas or sim-
ilarities between different experiences. Since all minds need to oper-
ate with both kinds of relations, we are not talking about an absolute
difference between two sorts of mind. What is at stake is a relative dif-
ference between minds, which is important because the difference
influences how the mind sees and feels the world around it. So the
distinction allows us to account for the difference in feeling between
a predominantly syntagmatic mind and a predominantly paradig-
matic mind, and between the kinds of literature produced by each. It
can also allow us to see interesting contrasts between two different
professors, or two different friends.
It is perhaps fitting to end this chapter with a paradigmatic leap to
a place where we can see things more broadly. The distinction
between paradigmatic and syntagmatic relations is useful in perceiv-
ing (and being able to describe) differences between works of litera-
ture, but it can also help you see patterns in your own behaviour.
When do you normally stress paradigmatic relations, and when do
you focus on syntagmatic ones? At a boring meeting or class, do you
tend to make a paradigmatic leap to a fantasy world? Does this serve
you well, or does it cause problems? Is meditation thoroughly syn-
tagmatic, with its requirement to stay in the present moment? The
contrast between syntagmatic and paradigmatic relations can be
applied very broadly—which suggests a strong relation between liter-
ary analysis and life itself.
Notes
1 David Lodge, “Modernism, Antimodernism and Postmodernism,” Work-
ing with Structuralism (London: Routledge and Kegan Paul, 1981) 3-16.
2 Honoré de Balzac, Père Goriot, trans. Marion Ayton Crawford (Har-
mondsworth: Penguin, 1951) 33, emphasis added.
3 James Joyce, Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (New York: The Viking
Press and Penguin Books, [1916] 1982) 168-69.
Questions to help you check your understanding of this chapter
1 The concepts of syntagmatic and paradigmatic relations are very
abstract ones. Try to think of several concrete examples of each.
2 Make up a short sentence, and identify the paradigmatic choices you
unconsciously made so the sentence would have the meaning you
wanted.
Structuralism (ii): Syntagmatic and Paradigmatic Relations 117
ch07.qxd 05/04/2007 4:12 PM Page 117
3 Explain how, if you had deliberately made a syntagmatic error in creat-
ing the sentence, it would have a different meaning, or possibly no
meaning at all.
4 Poetry usually shows more signs of paradigmatic mental activity than
realistic prose. Why is this the case?
5 Choose another person whom you know well, or can observe closely.
Do you feel this person is more paradigmatic, or more syntagmatic,
than you, in his or her way of thinking?
118 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch07.qxd 05/04/2007 4:12 PM Page 118
CHAPTER EIGHT
Deconstruction
Deconstruction, which is both a method of analysing literature and a
set of assumptions about language, emerged in France (and was
taken up in the United States) as a response to the development of
structuralism. Structuralism produced euphoria in some critics and
thinkers because it seemed to represent a great improvement on pre-
vious methods in criticism. It seemed to have a potential for cer-
tainty—it seemed as though when you had determined the structure
of a work of literature, you would have it firmly and permanently in
your grasp, and you could show that structure to other people with
confidence that they would see it too. In structuralism, literary criti-
cism and science seemed to be coming together.
Roland Barthes, one of the key figures in the development of struc-
turalism in France, passed through what he called “a euphoric dream
of scientificity.” He had thought, for instance, that it would be possi-
ble to set up a system that would account in a thorough way for the
structure of narrative. But as he moved into his poststructuralist
phase, around 1970, he began to feel that any system would be too
limiting to fully explain our experience of life or of literature. His
writings became much more autobiographical, personal, and playful.
Although all of his work is systematic in important ways, his post-
structuralist writings pay more attention to particular experiences
that elude systems. There is almost a sense of disappointment with
systems, and a plunging into life itself. Barthes began to feel that sys-
tems were likely to be overbearing and restricting, and he sought out
ways of subverting them. This process is an important aspect of
deconstruction.
Deconstruction as resistance to authority
Deconstruction is often talked about as though it were primarily a crit-
ical method, but it is best understood as a way of resisting the authority
of someone or something that has power over you. For instance, most
people go through a phase during which they revolt against the author-
ity of their parents and reject the models of life their parents have pro-
vided, which is part of an attempt to work out a style of life that will suit
them. During this phase they need to deconstruct the authority of their
parents. The word “deconstruct” originates in the German word
abbauen, which simply means “to take apart” or “to unbuild.”
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 119
119
ch08.qxd 02/04/2007 11:24 AM Page 119
You don’t really need deconstruction unless you are feeling
oppressed. This is likely to happen when you discover that an author-
ity (in which you previously had confidence) is inadequate, exploita-
tive, or simply dishonest. Often we find ourselves linked to some
authority figure through an accident (such as being brought up by a
particular set of parents) or through a commitment that we have
made ourselves (such as choosing a professor to supervise a thesis),
and, later on, we come to feel that we need to get away from that
authority for the sake of our own growth and development. It is at
this point that deconstruction becomes valuable. It is not, in my opin-
ion, very satisfying “on its own.” It only is attractive when you want to
use it.
What techniques does deconstruction provide to help you subvert
the authorities that oppress you? I can best answer this question by
describing a book that has had considerable authority for many read-
ers, Fifth Business, by Robertson Davies.1 It is also a novel that care-
fully presents a Jungian ideology, and it is open to deconstruction in
an interesting way.
Fifth Business is about a competition between two childhood friends
for success in the world and for power over each other. The hero of
the book, Dunstan Ramsay, chooses for himself a path leading to psy-
chological understanding: he becomes (in succession) a student of
history, a schoolmaster, a scholar in the field of the lives of saints, and
finally a student of human psychology with a deep understanding of
why people act and feel as they do. Ramsay’s rival gains his power
through the business world. His career leads him to the chairman-
ship of a large conglomerate, and during the Second World War he
is appointed to the federal cabinet. At the end of the novel there is a
confrontation between these two characters, and Ramsay wins hands
down. He is leading a fulfilling life among interesting friends, while
his rival has become depressed (in spite of his success) and wants to
commit suicide—a condition Ramsay is able to diagnose correctly.
Fifth Business seems to be a novel about the real world. It suggests
that ultimately it is more rewarding to seek psychological under-
standing than to strive for wealth and public prestige. Furthermore,
in its presentation of psychology, it is one-sided: it explicitly embraces
the ideas developed by Carl Jung, and denigrates those of Sigmund
Freud. In a way the novel is an extension of the conflict between
Freud and Jung, the two founding fathers of psychoanalysis. The
book amounts to a presentation of a Jungian ideology, and many peo-
ple find it persuasive. Reading it was my first introduction to Jungian
psychology, and I was very impressed with what I found in it. This
kind of positive response is important, because if you do not feel a
120 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch08.qxd 02/04/2007 11:24 AM Page 120
deep engagement with a book, you will probably not feel a need to
deconstruct it later on.
Davies’s novel takes many ideas from Jung, but I will mention only
three. The first is the belief that sexual activity is not very important
in a healthy life; it is less important, on the whole, than religion and
art. The second is that human beings are fundamentally solitary. It
follows from this that social experience is usually unsatisfying, and
marriage is disappointing. The third idea is that it is wise not to
decide in advance what you want from life; it is better to “co-operate
with your destiny,” and take advantage of the possibilities that unfold
as your life develops. The hero of the novel is on the “right” side in
these three issues, and his rival is on the wrong side. If you agree with
what Jung has to say, you will probably find the hero an attractive and
engaging character.
The urge to deconstruct this book comes when you begin to feel
that it is not necessarily telling the complete and final truth about life
and the world, and that its ideology is limited and one-sided. When
you discover this, you have the motive to work out how the book has
been made to seem more compelling than it actually is. One way to do
this is to take it apart—to deconstruct it—so you can see how the
impression of truth has been achieved. A particularly interesting
technique has been used in Fifth Business, and it is very evident once
you notice it.
Essentially the book is about Dunstan Ramsay’s education. He has
a sequence of teachers, which include his parents, an eccentric
woman in the village where he grows up, a British woman who initi-
ates him in lovemaking, a Jesuit priest, and a Swiss woman who
directs a troupe that gives magic shows. The teachings occur mostly
in a series of monologues: the teacher speaks, and Ramsay listens—
and absorbs what is being said. The key technique used by Davies to
present his Jungian ideology is that the teachers (who seem to be inde-
pendent of one another) all speak a Jungian language, so that Ram-
say is instructed (and his attitudes formed) by a series of Jungian
monologues, delivered by authoritative characters. Nothing they say
is ever challenged or questioned by a strong opponent, and so it seems
that the book’s Jungian ideology is “the truth” about the world—
because it is expounded by a number of authoritative characters.
When you realize that the book is constructed in this way, it loses
some of its ideological force, and you begin to see it in a broader con-
text. You are likely to become suspicious, wondering why Freudian
ideas are regularly attacked, and why Jungian beliefs are presented
with great reverence. Why is real conflict and hard questioning never
permitted? Why does the instruction occur with a docile pupil (Ram-
Deconstruction 121
ch08.qxd 02/04/2007 11:24 AM Page 121
say), who seems only too glad to listen quietly and accept everything
he hears? When the novel is deconstructed in this way, it appears to
contradict itself to some extent. If the ideas it presents are really pow-
erful, they could stand up to some real resistance. The fact that there
is no serious questioning of them makes the principal ideas seem
weak rather than strong.
The desire to deconstruct a work of literature comes from (first)
thinking that it contains the truth, and (second) seeing it in broader
terms that make the book’s truth seem much more limited, and its
vision less authoritative. So although it is possible to teach decon-
struction as a neutral “technique of literary analysis,” such an
approach actually makes little sense. Usually teachers want to make
their students enthusiastic about the books on the course, and
deconstruction is likely to have the opposite effect. Since 1966
deconstruction has been very much in vogue in the United States,
and it seems to be a kind of rival to historical criticism, New Criticism,
and structuralism—which it is, since deconstruction challenges those
theories’ claims to authority. But it is different from these other
methods because deconstruction is almost always negative (although
it can be liberating). Its philosophical underpinnings are fundamen-
tally sceptical; that is, it is based on the assumption that it is not possi-
ble to develop and communicate valid beliefs about the nature of the
world and of human experience. This is not an inspiring or congen-
ial belief for students of literature.
Radical deconstruction: deconstruction as ideology
You can use deconstruction to subvert an authority that is oppressing
you, but if you go to deconstruction in order to find a set of values or
a philosophy of life, you enter a world that is anarchistic and solip-
sistic—a world in which each person is essentially alone and cannot
communicate with others, and social groups fall apart because they
have no coherence. This is an almost impossible world to live in, I
think, but it is an interesting one to know about.
We can gain entrance to the deconstructionist world most easily
through the structuralist view of language. Structuralists maintain
that language does not merely represent the world; it also organizes
the world. Language is like a set of categories that imposes structures
on the world. (This idea is more fully explained in Chapter 6.) So
language is by no means transparent: it affects what we see when we
look at the world. Someone who speaks English sees a different world
from someone who speaks French, because some of the structures in
the two languages are different. If you are able to speak two lan-
122 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch08.qxd 02/04/2007 11:24 AM Page 122
guages fluently, you probably feel that the language you use colours
the way you see the world and how you operate in it.
Deconstructionists conclude from this observation (rightly, I
think) that any truth couched in a particular language is affected or
distorted by being expressed in that language. This means that noth-
ing expressed in language is absolutely true. So whenever you encounter
an author or a group claiming to possess the absolute truth, you can
always deconstruct their claim by saying that their truth is relativized
by the very fact that it is expressed in a particular language. Another
way of saying this is that the truth is mediated by language, since lan-
guage is the medium through which truth is expressed.
Some religious groups and some authors (mostly of a romantic
cast of mind) seem to believe that they possess an absolute truth,
which they find expressed in sacred texts, poems, or novels. These
people are particularly vulnerable to deconstruction. You can always
say, “Your truth depends on your language, and your language is not
absolute; it is only one of the many languages in the world.” But it is
very important to notice that this deconstructive strategy only works
on absolute claims. As soon as an author replies, “My works do not
present an absolute truth; they are simply the closest I (or my com-
munity) can get to the truth, using the language we have at our dis-
posal,” he is off the hook. But at least he has admitted that his truth
is not absolute, and so it is open to criticism, and possibly to change.
Deconstructionists agree with structuralists in noting that language
often works through binary oppositions, such as male/female,
rich/poor, white/black, win/lose, centre/margins. In these cases, the
first term is often considered superior to the second term, and so a rich,
white male who has won his way to a significant position in an impor-
tant centre of population has more power and influence (usually) than
a poor, black woman who lives in the country. Binary oppositions such
as male/female, in which one term is accorded more value than the
other, are important elements in ideologies, and they are often masked
in some way, or assumed to be “reasonable” rather than arbitrary.
Deconstructionists are quick to spot these binary distinctions, and
to ask what they are based on. Often they are based on power rela-
tions, and on the fact that the dominant group in society, because it
has power, is able to use these distinctions to bolster its own position
at the expense of disadvantaged or marginal groups of people. So
rich people may exploit poor people, men may exploit women,
Anglo-Saxons may exploit native and ethnic groups, professors may
exploit students—and often both parties willingly consent to the
process. This usually happens because both parties are in the grip of
an ideology that makes the process of exploitation seem legitimate.
Deconstruction 123
ch08.qxd 02/04/2007 11:24 AM Page 123
The technique of deconstructing binary oppositions can be fruit-
ful when applied to literature. If we look at Robertson Davies’s work,
for instance, it is clear that almost all the interesting characters are
professionally successful and come from upper-middle-class families.
Most of them have strong connections to Europe, too. In Davies’s
world, if you are not successful, and if you stay in North America, you
will probably live a dull and spiritually impoverished life. A decon-
structionist would be quick to point out this implicit assumption
about the world, and to question its validity.
The prophet of deconstruction: Jacques Derrida
The French thinker who was mainly responsible for developing
deconstruction and popularizing it in North America in the late
1960s and the 1970s was Jacques Derrida. He published three impor-
tant books in 1967; they had an immediate impact, and over the next
ten years they were translated into English as Writing and Difference,
Speech and Phenomena, and Of Grammatology.2 Derrida is difficult to
understand, for several reasons, and I cannot hope to give you a full
introduction to his work in a few pages. But he was the most influ-
ential critic in the English-speaking world between 1970 and 1990, so
it is important that you have some sense of his methods and his con-
cerns. If you want to understand him more fully, you can turn to
Christopher Norris’s helpful book on him.3
Derrida’s work is significant because it launches an attack on many
kinds of institutional authority and received wisdom. In fact, he pro-
poses a paradigm change in the way we think about authority and
language. You will understand his motives for doing this better if you
know that he was born in 1930 in the suburbs of Algiers to Jewish par-
ents. They formed part of a small minority. Algeria was a French
colony at the time, so the dominant class was a Catholic minority,
while the bulk of the population was Muslim. It was a period when
there was a lot of racial discrimination and violence. As a child, Der-
rida felt extremely isolated, and no doubt many of the religious and
educational authorities surrounding him seemed alien to him. Much
of what they promulgated as “the truth” or “common sense” must
have seemed manifestly unjust or wrong to him. He needed something
like deconstruction in order to survive as a person.
His way of undermining authority (as an adult) took an unusual
form, and one that is difficult to understand, partly because Derrida
wants to fundamentally alter the way we think about language. I will
try to explain his outlook by pretending to speak in the voice of a dis-
ciple of Derrida, who is a believer in deconstruction. Here is what
such a person might say:
124 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch08.qxd 02/04/2007 11:24 AM Page 124
Ever since Plato’s time, more than 2,000 years ago, Western civilization has
had a particular attitude toward authority, which I think is wrong, and I
want to dispute. In general, people in the West have believed that to find the
truth, you need to find the person who has spoken the truth, and put yourself
in his presence, and listen to his voice, and hear what he says. It is much bet-
ter to be in his presence, than to read something he has written, or to read some-
thing that someone else has written about him. Derrida calls this belief the
“phonocentric idea of truth,” because it is based on hearing the authority’s
voice (“voice” in Greek is pho
-nê). According to the phonocentric idea of truth,
speech is primary, and writing is secondary. The origin of truth is to be found
in speech, and writing is supplementary. I believe that this ideology is wrong
and has harmful consequences. In fact, I think it would be preferable to think
of writing as primary, and speech as secondary. I will explain why in a
minute.
Plato tells a story in one of his dialogues, the Phaedrus, which expresses
the ideology of phonocentrism. It takes place in the mythical kingdom of
Thamus, in ancient Egypt, at a time when writing had not been invented.
The god of writing, Thoth, comes to the court of King Thamus and offers to
teach his subjects how to read and write. After careful consideration, Thamus
declines this offer, and gives a number of reasons. One is that he thinks being
able to write will cause his subjects to lose their ability to memorize things,
since, if writing were available, their memories would get much less exercise.
Even more significant, King Thamus thinks, is that the institution of writing
would cause a breakdown in his educational system. It would cause the bond
between a teacher and his student to become weaker and less reliable. When
instruction is oral, the student is connected directly with the teacher, and, if
the student misunderstands a lesson, the teacher will perceive it and he can
correct the student. But writing is much more open to errors in interpretation,
because the author is not present to correct mistakes.4
The deconstructionist goes on: This myth expresses the Western ideol-
ogy of phonocentrism. Now I will give you a striking example of phonocentrism
in our culture today. Ever since the Protestant Reformation in Europe in the
sixteenth century, Christians have been encouraged to read the Bible them-
selves, and learn what it says about Jesus. For a long time, people have been
fascinated to find out what Jesus actually said, as opposed to stories that were
told about him, or words that were put in his mouth by later leaders of the
church. Thomas Jefferson, the nineteenth-century American president, tried to
work this out, and in the twentieth century a group of scholars have collabo-
rated in an attempt to investigate every speech attributed to Jesus in the
Gospels, and estimate how likely it is that he actually said those words. Of
course, it would be even better if they could put themselves at Jesus’ feet, and
hear him speak the original words in the language he used, Aramaic. All of
this shows how important it is to get as close as possible to the speaking per-
son—the authority—to discover his truth.
Deconstruction 125
ch08.qxd 02/04/2007 11:24 AM Page 125
The assumption behind these attitudes is that the authority speaking is
more reliable than a written text. But we deconstructionists think this assump-
tion is false. When someone says something, it is just as unreliable as a writ-
ten text. Why? Because speaking and writing are both semiotic systems, that
is, systems of signs, and both suffer from the same limitations—only these limi-
tations are more obvious in the case of written texts, so actually they are less
dangerous. Here are four uncertainties that apply to both writing and speak-
ing:
1. It is impossible to be sure of the sincerity of a written text, because a person
can write things that he does not really feel. But this is also true of speak-
ing. A good actor can pretend to be saying the truth, but actually be speak-
ing a falsehood.
2. In any semiotic system, the speaker (or the writer) encodes what he has to
say in the verbal code. The listener decodes those words to understand the
content. But it is hard, or impossible, to be sure that the speaker and the
listener are using the same code—that is, the words may mean different
things to the speaker and the listener.5
3. When we use language, we are not using a passive tool, which transpar-
ently expresses our ideas and feelings. We are using a vast linguistic net-
work, which itself is filled with ideological assumptions. No speaker, or
writer, can be fully aware of what he is saying.
4. A similar point can be made about the unconscious mind of the speaker.
In the same way that a language is much “bigger” than the speaker, so his
unconscious mind is not fully knowable to him, and may cause him to say
things which he does not consciously intend or understand.
The deconstructionist concludes: Because of these four sources of uncer-
tainty, any act of communication using signs always involves a problem of
interpretation. For some reason (perhaps because of the charisma of the
speaker) we are not as aware that these problems exist when someone is speak-
ing to us, especially someone in a position of authority. But they do exist, and
it is wrong to ignore them. So Derrida says, “Speech is always already written.
”
That means that the limitations of writing apply to speaking as well. Going
back to the origin, the voice, the presence, does not help us get at the truth.
Speech should not be given priority over writing.
In assessing what the deconstructionist has said, it is worth point-
ing out that, because Derrida wanted to discredit many firmly estab-
lished authorities, it was useful and relevant to undo the hierarchy
of speech / writing, and to show the uncertainty involved in all acts
of communication. Religious and political authorities set out their
laws in words, and often they attribute them to some origin—some
divine source or authority, sometimes one shrouded in the mystery of
126 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch08.qxd 02/04/2007 11:24 AM Page 126
the distant past. Derrida undermines this kind of authority by show-
ing that going back to an origin does not convey certainty, especially
if the communication from that origin occurs in language. Language
is not absolutely trustworthy.
What difference does it make whether speech or writing is seen as
primary? The main difference is whether authority is to be located
within the person of the speaker, or within a written text. If we live in
a community where a person has authority, our shared life will have
certain characteristics; that person can change the meaning of his
text, or revise it, because it is his inner idea that matters, not the words
that express it. If, on the other hand, authority is vested in a text
(such as a written code of laws), then it cannot be changed on the
whim of a person, although it is open to different kinds of interpre-
tation. To see and appreciate the centrality of writing in culture may
limit a patriarch’s authority, and may even dethrone him. One of the
first steps in limiting a monarch’s power is usually to make him sub-
mit to a written text, such as the Magna Carta or a constitution.
But in this book we are primarily concerned with literature, not
with religion or politics. What difference does Derrida’s paradigm
change make to us?
The obvious application is to the question of how we should inter-
pret literature. In a culture with a strong phonocentric ideology, it
would seem natural to say that the right meaning of Hamlet can best
be found by getting as close as possible to the origin of the play:
Shakespeare’s voice, and what he meant by the words he wrote. But
in a writing-centred ideology, we could not do things so simply. We
would have to admit that many things have changed since Shake-
speare wrote the play, and our interpretation, a twenty-first-century
interpretation, cannot be based on an appeal to a sixteenth-century
authority. We have to work it out ourselves, recognizing that our
decoding device—our language—is not the same as Shakespeare’s.
So Derrida’s outlook raises new problems for us, but it also gives us a
new kind of freedom—to discover an interpretation that is meaning-
ful for our own times.
Derrida’s strategy is an extreme one, and this is probably related to
the intense isolation he felt when he was young. I feel that his posi-
tion is weakened because he exaggerates his case, as the first point in
the deconstructionist’s speech above demonstrates. He says that we
can never know for certain, when someone is speaking, if he is being
sincere. But in most cases we can be fairly sure, and, if we are talking
to the person, we can check by asking questions. It is much harder to
know if a written text is sincere. A similar argument can apply to the
second point. Maybe our code, as listeners, is not exactly the same as
Deconstruction 127
ch08.qxd 02/04/2007 11:24 AM Page 127
the speaker’s, but usually we can tell if there is a problem, and
address it by making enquiries.
On the other hand, with a written text from centuries ago, there
will almost certainly be a significant difference between our decod-
ing device and the encoding device of the writer. Then we are faced
with a choice. We can either try to get as close to the author’s encod-
ing device—in which case we are trying to produce a historical read-
ing of the text. But if the text is to be alive in our own times, it needs
to survive “translation” into our current way of thinking and speak-
ing.
Why Derrida’s prestige in North America is so great is a puzzle to
many people. He was a philosopher (and not a literary critic), and he
was not a central figure in French philosophy. His main project—to
change the way we have been thinking about language for more than
two thousand years—was wildly ambitious. He also seemed to delib-
erately make his writing hard to understand, by indulging in contra-
dictions, puns, and verbal fireworks. One critic has said that he was
much more a performer than a logician. But, in spite of this, he
became the leading critic in the United States in the 1980s. He
acquired many followers, and deconstruction flourished.
There are several explanations for this phenomenon. Many are
unflattering to those who adopted deconstruction, such as the fact
that it was gratifying for young academics to use a paradigm change
to discredit their teachers and undermine their authority. Certainly
deconstruction opened the possibility for new interpretations of clas-
sic works. Another explanation is that it helped open up the question
of how literary texts like Oedipus or The Iliad go on being exciting and
controversial long after the ideology in force when they were written
has passed away. In my opinion, the single most important reason
Derrida became so popular was that the tool he developed was beau-
tifully well suited to the needs of oppressed or marginalized groups.
These groups always need to liberate themselves from the imposition
of norms and standards that they feel are irrelevant to them, or
unfair. Many groups in the 1960s and 1970s were becoming more
self-conscious and more active: black people, feminists, and gays, for
instance. In the United States, they found themselves in a position
not unlike that of Derrida in Algeria, the subjects of discrimination
and oppression. It is not surprising that his deconstructive strategies
were adopted by them, and worked for them.
One major problem with deconstruction is that it is too powerful a
tool. It is like a nuclear weapon that can destroy almost anything,
including one’s homeland. So if a deconstructionist says, “Don’t trust
the edicts of the Catholic Church, because language is inherently
128 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch08.qxd 02/04/2007 11:24 AM Page 128
unreliable and unstable,” the same warning could be applied to what
the deconstructionist says. Or, as one critic said in an article on Der-
rida’s politics, “There is an unresolvable paradox in using language
to claim that language cannot make unambiguous claims.”6
Some practical results of deconstruction
What follows from this radical critique of the Western authoritarian
idea of truth, and the reversal of the hierarchy that puts speech above
writing? One main result is that when people speak or write, we real-
ize that they are much less in control of what they are doing than was
previously thought. What they can think and say is, in some impor-
tant ways, structured by the language they speak, and the particular
ways in which they speak it. This is sometimes expressed in the
phrase, “We don’t speak language; language speaks us.” This is a
striking formulation, but it gives an exaggerated impression of how
passive we actually are when we articulate our thoughts and feelings.
We are certainly constrained in some ways, but we are not the objects
of a full linguistic determinism. We still have a wide range to freely
express ourselves, although we are not absolutely free.7
A second result is that we should pay more attention to hidden
assumptions in our language and our culture, and especially in areas
where people assume they are being neutral, factual, and objective.
The creation and enforcement of norms deserve our careful scrutiny.
We need to ask whose interests they serve, who is excluded, why, and
whether this is what we really want. (A pertinent example is Camus’s
famous novel The Outsider, in which a young man is tried for murder.
A principal strategy of the prosecution is to show that he has “a crim-
inal soul.” Evidence for this is that he went swimming with a girl-
friend on the day he heard about his mother’s death, and smoked a
cigarette at her funeral. A deconstructionist would question both the
existence of this category—a criminal soul—and its force in convict-
ing the defendant.) Another area that Derrida and others have inves-
tigated is the idea of reason itself. Most philosophers have assumed
that reason is a reliable, neutral, universally valid tool for discovering
the truth, but for Derrida it is a method that has a specific origin
(Western philosophy) and has been used as a weapon against third-
world countries and colonies. This issue is an important subject of
debate in contemporary philosophy.
A third result that I have not discussed yet is the model Derrida
provides for actually investigating situations and texts. You might eas-
ily conclude from my summary that Derrida ranges widely and wields
a broad sword, dealing in generalities, and making sweeping assess-
Deconstruction 129
ch08.qxd 02/04/2007 11:24 AM Page 129
ments and critiques. In fact in his critical practice Derrida is careful
and painstaking. He examines texts minutely, searching assiduously
for details that are clues to hidden assumptions and predispositions
of the author. One of his main criticisms of previous philosophers is
that they have not paid close enough attention to the language (and
especially the figures of speech) of the major texts in the Western
philosophic tradition. So although Derrida has the status of a
prophet in North American literary criticism, he does not declaim
and decree, and in dealing with texts he resists generalizations and
facile summaries. On the other hand, he is often criticized for his
own rhetorical flourishes and exaggerations, and for deliberately
placing obstacles in the way of clear communication.
Derrida is right to observe that cultures and languages operate
partly through making binary distinctions, and some of those dis-
tinctions have one term that is privileged or valorized by the culture.
If you think of the distinction “work / play,” which is important in
North American culture, you can see that in most instances work is
given a higher value than play. This might be an error in some cases,
and we need to be aware that the opposition between the two could
itself be deconstructed—as in the case when you are able to find
work that seems like play to you.
But there is a limitation in deconstruction. Try, for instance, to
imagine a culture in which there are no valorized binary distinc-
tions. What would such a society look like? If we cannot imagine
such a society in practical terms, then we have to accept that soci-
eties will have valorized binary distinctions. We would want to be
aware of them, to feel that they are worth supporting, to watch out
for abuses of them, and above all to avoid claiming that they are
eternal or natural. They are constructed, and provisional and prac-
tical in nature.
Deconstruction in literature: The Unbearable Lightness of Being
Some works of literature have a strong deconstructive element in
them, and often they help readers see that the assumptions of their
society (embedded in its ideology) are not necessarily right. One
striking example is Milan Kundera’s The Unbearable Lightness of Being,
which, in addition to being a moving and lyrical book, is thoroughly
deconstructive, in an amusing but also serious way. It is the story of
Tomas, a brain surgeon living in Prague around the time of the anti-
Russian uprising of 1968, and it centres on his relationship with
Tereza, a waitress whom he meets in a provincial town, through “six
fortuities,” one of which is that Tomas has to perform an operation
130 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch08.qxd 02/04/2007 11:24 AM Page 130
in that town because the chief surgeon at his hospital in Prague has
had an attack of sciatica.8 This questions a common sentimental
assumption that there is something ordained by destiny at the origin
of the greatest love in a person’s life:
We all reject out of hand the idea that the love of our life may be
something light or weightless; we presume our love is what must
be, that without it our life would no longer be the same; we feel
that Beethoven himself, gloomy and awe-inspiring, is playing the
“Es muss sein!” to our own great love.
Tomas ... came to the conclusion that the love story of his life
exemplified not “Es muss sein!” (It must be so), but rather “Es kön-
nte auch anders sein” (It could just as well be otherwise).9
Many other norms and expectations are reversed in the course of the
book. For example, Tomas maintains that what makes a relationship
serious is not having sex, but sleeping through the night with
another person—sleeping and dreaming together. Another example
is the reversal of progress in Tomas’s career. Because he writes an arti-
cle attacking the communist régime, he is dismissed from his job as
a brain surgeon and assigned duties as a window-washer. Some time
later, he and Tereza decide that he will give up that occupation so
they can become farmers in the countryside:
Her hands had started trembling again. She had aged. She was all
that mattered to him. She, born of six fortuities, she, the blossom
sprung from the chief surgeon’s sciatica, she, the reverse side of all
his “Es muss sein!”—she was the only thing he cared about.
... There was only one criterion for all his decisions: he must do
nothing that could harm her.10
So the norm of progress in a career is turned upside down, and both
Tereza and Tomas become happier as they throw off the burdens of
professional life and move to the country.
Another deconstructive feature of The Unbearable Lightness of Being
is the fact that it has an extended section, entitled “Words Misunder-
stood,” showing how words and images can have opposite meanings
for different individuals, and so create disastrous confusions. At one
point Franz, a male character, becomes inspired by the phrase “living
in truth,” and decides that he must make public his relation with the
woman with whom he is having a secret affair, and leave his wife and
Deconstruction 131
ch08.qxd 02/04/2007 11:24 AM Page 131
family. But for his lover, an artist who abhors publicity, “living in
truth” can only be accomplished in utter secrecy, away from the pres-
sures of other people’s opinions. So when Franz comes to live with
her, she packs up and disappears forever from his life. This illustrates
how uncertain the meaning of words can be, and how drastically this
uncertainty can affect our lives.
The best image I have encountered to convey the essence of
deconstruction occurs in this book—a modern, elegant toilet bowl:
Toilets in modern bathrooms rise up from the floor like white
water lilies. The architect does all he can to make the body forget
how paltry it is, and to make man ignore what happens to his intes-
tinal wastes after the water from the tank flushes them down the
drain. Even though the sewer pipes reach far into our houses with
their tentacles, they are carefully hidden from view, and we are
happily ignorant of the invisible Venice of shit underlying our
bathrooms, bedrooms, dance halls, and parliaments.
The bathroom in the old working-class flat on the outskirts of
Prague was less hypocritical: the floor was covered with gray tile
and the toilet rising up from it was broad, squat, and pitiful. It did
not look like a white water lily; it looked like what it was: the
enlarged end of a sewer pipe. And since it lacked even a wooden
seat, Tereza had to perch on the cold enamel rim.11
The beautiful toilet bowl is a construction of society, a kind of col-
lective work of art, and its function is to help us forget our bodily
functions, our wastes, and their smells. What deconstruction does is
like “unbuilding” the toilet bowl: it reminds us of another aspect of
reality that our polite conventions hide—the canals and conduits full
of excrement and waste, to which the toilet is attached. This is a
graphic and appropriate image for many euphemistic or sanitizing
uses of language, such as calling torture “physical persuasion.” A
deconstructive critic might say that the toilet bowl is an accurate
image for ordinary language as well: it looks clear, precise, elegant,
and unproblematic; but in fact both the toilet and language are con-
nected to hidden networks that are messy, imprecise, and always in
flux. The system of language may, in fact, not be a pretty thing.
Kundera’s image also makes clear the moral purpose behind
deconstruction: to unmask our pretences and destabilize the hierar-
chies on which a society relies. Here the binary distinction between
beauty and ugliness is put into question in a forceful way. Normally
we choose beauty over ugliness and mess, but what if beauty masks
the truth, and ugliness helps us see reality more accurately?
So deconstruction can be extremely useful in certain situations, but
132 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch08.qxd 02/04/2007 11:24 AM Page 132
it is a tool rather than a desirable philosophy in itself. It can alert you
to the ideologies hidden in works of literature, and it can help you to
liberate yourself from oppressive authorities, by questioning the
accepted values and binary distinctions of society. But in the end it
cannot create the structures that we want to operate in society or in lit-
erature. These problems will be dealt with more fully in the following
chapter, in which the deconstructive frame of mind is related to three
other mindsets that have a much greater constructive potential.
Notes
1 Fifth Business (Toronto: Macmillan, 1970) is the first book in Robertson
Davies’s “Deptford Trilogy.” The other two volumes are The Manticore
and World of Wonders. The whole trilogy is steeped in Jung’s ideas, which
in part accounts for its great interest.
2 The three books by Jacques Derrida published in 1967 are the follow-
ing: L’écriture et la différence (Paris: Seuil, 1967), translated as Writing and
Difference (Chicago: Chicago University Press, 1978); De la grammatologie
(Paris: Minuit, 1967), translated as Of Grammatology (Baltimore: Johns
Hopkins University Press, 1976); and La voix et le phénomène (Paris:
Presses Universitaires de France, 1967), translated as Speech and Phenom-
ena (Evanston, IL: Northwestern University Press, 1973).
3 Christopher Norris, Derrida (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press,
1987).
4 Plato, Phaedrus, section 274 ff.; Collected Dialogues, ed. Edith Hamilton
and Huntington Cairns (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press,
1961) 520.
5 This problem is explored in John Fowles’s The Magus, when the male
protagonist tries to interpret the erotic actions of a woman, and makes
the mistake of thinking she loves him. He eventually realizes that he is
misinterpreting her actions—that is, he does not understand the semi-
otic system she is using—and he finds this deeply upsetting.
6 Mark Lilla, “The Politics of Jacques Derrida,” New York Review of Books,
25 June 1998.
7 This point is made with great eloquence by Iris Murdoch in her book
Metaphysics as a Guide to Morals (Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1993), Chap-
ter 7, “Derrida and Structuralism,” 185-216. She writes, “Because of the
vast extent of language and the way in which meanings of words and
concepts are determined by innumerable relationships with other words
and concepts, no individual speaker can really ‘know’ what he means,
we are unconscious of the immense linguistic beyond which we think we
‘use’ when it is really using us” (187). But she feels it is an error to exag-
gerate our helplessness in language. “Value, morality, is removed by the
structuralist picture if taken seriously. This removal of value is, in a quiet
Deconstruction 133
ch08.qxd 02/04/2007 11:24 AM Page 133
way, characteristic of this age. ... [Heidegger’s later concept of Being,
and Derrida’s theory of language, as systems ...] represent new forms of
determinism. Determinism is always reappearing in new forms since it
satisfies a deep human wish: to give up, to get rid of freedom, responsi-
bility, remorse, all sorts of personal individual unease, and surrender to
fate and the relief of ‘it could not be otherwise’” (190).
8 Milan Kundera, The Unbearable Lightness of Being (New York: Harper,
1984) 219.
9 Kundera, 35.
10 Kundera, 219.
11 Kundera, 156.
Questions to help you check your understanding of this chapter
1 How can deconstruction help free you from an authority that you have
previously felt was legitimate and justified?
2 How can deconstruction help you question an authority that claims to
be absolute?
3 Derrida maintains that we should not accord any more credence to a
person who speaks with authority than to a written text. What argument
does he make to support this position?
4 In what way does deconstruction help us question the legitimacy of
widely accepted binary oppositions in which one term is accorded more
value than the other (such as “rich / poor” or “work / play”)?
Suggestions for further reading
Helen Crowley, A Teacher’s Introduction to Deconstruction (Urbana, IL:
National Council of Teachers of English, 1989).
Jonathan Culler, On Deconstruction: Theory and Criticism after Structuralism
(Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1982).
—–. “In Pursuit of Signs,” The Pursuit of Signs (Ithaca, NY: Cornell Univer-
sity Press, 1981), 18-43.
Christopher Norris, Deconstruction: Theory and Practice (London and New
York: Methuen, 1982). This book begins with structuralism and New Criti-
cism, deals with Jacques Derrida, and has a chapter on the American
deconstructive critics Geoffrey Hartman, J. Hillis Miller, and Paul de Man.
—–. Derrida (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1987).
Edward Said, The World, the Text, and the Critic (Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press, 1983), especially “Criticism between Culture and Sys-
tem,” 178-225.
Robert Scholes, Protocols of Reading (New Haven, CT: Yale University Press,
1989).
134 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch08.qxd 02/04/2007 11:24 AM Page 134
CHAPTER NINE
Vico and the Four Stages of Mental Life
One of the most powerful theories for understanding both literature
and life was developed by an Italian historian of the eighteenth cen-
tury, Giambattista Vico. He wanted to discover why civilizations in the
past seemed to go through a repeating pattern of growth from a
primitive condition to maturity, followed by decline. He identified
four stages in this process, and they cast light on a wide range of
human and social processes.1
Learning about these four stages takes an effort, a bit like learning
words in a new language, but it is worthwhile because the idea of
these stages can illuminate the process of development in many dif-
ferent areas. I will provide a number of examples later on so you will
be able to see in practice how the theory works. For the sake of sim-
plicity, I want to present Vico’s four stages in terms of the growth of
an individual person’s mind. This growth can be seen most clearly as
a sequence of four different ways in which that individual might be
connected to a human institution, such as a university, or a company,
or a church. For our purposes, perhaps the most relevant example
would be the relation of a student to “the institution of literature”—
which would involve the many people who play a part in creating a
work of literature, bringing it to our attention, and physically pro-
viding us with the book. This would include the writer, the publisher
who decides to invest in publishing the book, the editor who has sug-
gested modifications, the reviewers who evaluate the book for the
public, and the professors who put it on reading lists and spend time
in lectures explaining it.
Each stage in Vico’s pattern of development is characterized by a
dominant mental process, and each is related to a particular figure
of speech (that is, a way of using language in a non-literal way, such
as metaphor). A particular person might, during the course of his
studies, move through all four stages, or he might stop at any one of
them, part way through the pattern. None of the stages is “better”
than the others in a general way, although any particular person may
feel more comfortable with one stage than the others. I will illustrate
the stages by presenting them in terms of the development of a stu-
dent of literature, but I hope that the reader will be able to transpose
them easily to other areas of life, such as playing on a sports team,
being a member of a church, or taking on a new job.
Vico’s paradigm is liberating because it suggests that there is not
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 135
135
ch09.qxd 05/04/2007 4:13 PM Page 135
just one “right way” of doing things. Different people, in different
stages, see the world in very different ways. But the power of the
paradigm is also due to the fact that it suggests that people move
from one stage to the next not by accident, and not by some mechan-
ical process, but because when you are immersed in any one of the
four stages, you are likely to realize that there is an incompleteness,
or something missing. It is your desire to be more complete, or more
solid, in your relation with the institution, that leads you to the next
stage. At the heart of Vico’s thought is his sense of a person’s need to
grow, to become more aware, and to be more engaged with the
world.2
Stage 1: Falling in Love
For my hypothetical university student—a young man of about eigh-
teen starting out in a literature course—stage 1 is the period during
which things are first discovered and named. The student is caught
up in a numinous world, a new world he does not understand or con-
trol, a world that is exciting, inspiring, and perhaps terrifying at
times. This is the stage of emotional identification, of falling in love,
and of deep involvement. Stendhal is thinking of this stage when he
says, of his time in Paris as a young man, “I lived exactly the life of a
poet, except for the fact that I didn’t write any poems.” In Tolstoy’s
War and Peace, Nikolai Rostov is overwhelmed by a stage 1 feeling
when the Emperor comes to inspect the troops before the battle of
Austerlitz:
Rostov did not remember and had no consciousness of how he ran
to his place and mounted. Instantly his regret at not having taken
part in the action [of the previous battle] and his humdrum mood
among men he saw every day had gone—instantly every thought of
himself had vanished. This nearness by itself, he felt, made up to
him for the morning’s disappointment. He was happy as a lover is
happy when the moment arrives for the longed-for rendez-vous.
Not daring to look down the line, and not glancing round, he was
conscious by an ecstatic instinct of his [the Emperor’s] approach.
And he felt it not only from the sound of the tramping hooves of
the approaching cavalcade, but because as he drew nearer every-
thing around him grew brighter, more joyous and full of meaning,
more festive. Nearer and nearer moved this sun, as he seemed to
Rostov, shedding around him rays of blissful and majestic light,
until Rostov felt himself enfolded in that radiance and heard his
voice, caressing, serene, regal, and yet so simple.3
136 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch09.qxd 05/04/2007 4:13 PM Page 136
We can feel Rostov’s excitement in this description. It is as though he
has found heaven on earth, and he cannot believe that his life is sud-
denly so exciting and that all its miseries and tedium have miracu-
lously disappeared.
Our hypothetical student, who is beginning a course of literary
studies, is in a period of fascination with individual authors—the
Gawain-poet, Shakespeare, Wordsworth, Yeats, and Camus, for
instance—who seem like shamans, because they appear to hold the
secrets of life in their hands. There is a natural tendency in stage 1 to
seek isolation, because others are unlikely to share the intensity of
your feelings. As far as the study of literature is concerned, what you
want to do most is to commune with your favourite authors and try
to discover if there are any more who have a similar power and fasci-
nation for you.
Stage 2: The Search for Understanding
When you have become enthralled with an institution—take the Navy,
as another example—it is natural at some point to want to understand
how it works. In the middle of being excited to find yourself at sea in
a destroyer, feeling the salt wind blowing in your face, you realize that
you are a small piece of a large organization, which has its different
parts, divisions, and hierarchies. Most likely your own future depends
to some extent on how well you negotiate your passage through these
various structures. This is the point at which you enter stage 2. In stage
2, the magical entities you have discovered in stage 1 are not just iso-
lated elements. They are linked to one another and to the world
through connections in time and space. You want to know who has
power, and how the influence of some people alters the way things
happen. Or you may simply want to know how certain mechanisms
work. Feeling the shuddering might of the ship’s engines is an emo-
tional, stage 1 experience. Knowing exactly how they work, and why
they were built the way they were, is a stage 2 matter.
In the study of literature, the passage from stage 1 to stage 2 usu-
ally occurs when you get interested in what has caused a literary work
to be written, and what was surrounding it when it was written. Since
it is common to think that a literary work is the product of the
author’s genius, our student of literature may want to read biogra-
phies and books about the historical background as he enters stage
2. He will start to consider questions such as “Was Shakespeare con-
cerned with the psychology of twins in The Comedy of Errors because he
found that people were beginning to confuse his own twins, Hamnet
and Judith, with each other?” or “When Wordsworth wrote his
Vico and the Four Stages of Mental Life 137
ch09.qxd 05/04/2007 4:13 PM Page 137
138 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
Vico’s four stages of development, applied to the experience of a literature student
STAGE 1: METAPHOR STAGE 2: METONYMY
Encountering new Searching for the causes
things. of things.
DOMINANT Apprehending something Connecting things with
MENTAL new and involving; naming neighbours in time and .
PROCESS it, or learning its name. space.
CHARACTERISTIC Numinous experience. Desire to analyse things,
MENTAL STATE Individual lost in an to reduce things to a
enormous new world. more basic level of orga-
Implicit faith in im- nization; tendency
mediate experience. toward positivism.
APPROPRIATE Discovering literature as Establishing connections
STAGE IN THE field of interest. Great between authors, usually
DEVELOPMENT admiration for individual by locating them in their
OF A STUDENT authors. Utter lack of un- historical context. Accu-
OF LITERATURE derstanding for other mulation of detailed
major authors. Little or knowledge without a
no interest in criticism. strong sense of overall
pattern.
RELATED Anarchist Radical
IDEOLOGY
STAGE IN THE Age of the gods. Gods Age of heroes. Strong
DEVELOPMENT are projected on nature men dominate the insti-
OF A CIVILIZA- by man. Isolated human tutions of a more com-
TION, ACCORD- groups, brutally domina- plex society. Class divi-
ING TO VICO ted by a strong male. sions are established.
Religion based on fear
and shame.
ch09.qxd 05/04/2007 4:13 PM Page 138
Vico and the Four Stages of Mental Life 139
STAGE 3: SYNECDOCHE STAGE 4: IRONY
Feeling the purpose or Losing confidence in what you
goal of something. discovered in stage 3.
Forming wholes by relating Recognizing the inadequacies of the
parts to each other. Ideal- integration achieved in stage 3.
izing and integrating.
A complex net-like structure Awareness of different viewpoints;
present in the mind. Crea- uncertainty about things-in-
tion of a grand and panop- themselves. Paralysis; mimicking as a
tic vision (Blake, Coleridge). way of taking action. Cynicism and
bitterness are possible.
Development of a compre- The discovery that the order in stage
hensive pattern for litera- 3 is based on your own idiosyncratic
ture-as-a-whole, in the conditions of development (class,
manner of Frye, or a hier- education, place in the family constel-
archy based on merit lation, your body, etc.). Everything
(Leavis, Bloom), or a his- depends on “What language you
torical synthesis. Investiga- speak.” Objectivity disappears.
ting the basis for this pat- Deconstruction flourishes; attention
tern can lead to structura- focuses on criticism, because the
lism and then to stage 4. approach determines what you see in
(This stage is hard for a a work of literature.
student to achieve on her
own.)
Conservative Nihilist (the malignant stage 4)
Liberal (the benign stage 4)
Age of humanity. Assertion Age of dissolution and ricorso or
of common humanity recycling. The human origin of
transcending class divisions. institutions and standards is revealed;
Development of written people no longer revere them, and
law; equal rights for all seek their own private pleasures
people. instead of the public good. The
civilization becomes effete, and is
conquered by a more vigorous
invader.
ch09.qxd 05/04/2007 4:13 PM Page 139
famous ‘Lucy’ poems, was he in fact writing about his sister Dorothy?
What was the nature of his relationship with her, and how did that
affect the poems?” Stage 2 often has a reductive element in it,
because one level of experience (the text, the experience of reading)
is tied to, and explained by, another level of reality (the author’s life).
Stage 3: Integrating and Idealizing
Stage 2 is dispersive, because in it you connect a work of literature
with other things; your interest flows outward from the work to biog-
raphy and history, which have no clear boundaries. In stage 3 you
shift to an integrative and idealizing mode of thought: you are inte-
rested in discovering the essence or core of a thing, institution, or
person. You try to move from the outward appearances to the inner
reality that generates them. In stage 3 you might decide that the core
of Hamlet is the Oedipal struggle between Hamlet and Claudius, and
that, consequently, Hamlet’s bitter love for Gertrude is at the heart of
all his problems. In stage 2 you often have the feeling that you are
wading through a mass of detail (and people who enjoy being in
stage 2 often are good at dealing with a lot of detail); in stage 3 you
make a firm distinction between those things that are central and
essential, and those that are peripheral and non-essential. There is a
Platonic tendency in stage 3 thinking: you feel you ought to be able
to discover the central essence of things you care about. If stage 1
produces the poet, and stage 2 the administrator, stage 3 seems to
hold the promise of wisdom: a thorough immersion might qualify
you to become a philosopher-king.
In order to be in charge of an institution (such as a small busi-
ness), it is valuable to have the stage 3 perspective on what you are
doing. When you are embedded in stage 3, you know how things run
(you have learned that in stage 2); you retain your love for the whole
process (which marked the stage 1 experience); and you understand
the goals or aims of the entire operation. That makes it possible for
you to understand the rules “from above” (instead of just following
them passively, or enforcing them mechanically). You can see what
the rules are designed to achieve, and so you can tell when they
ought to be broken or modified, because they are hindering the real
purposes of the institution. Our stage 2 student is likely to run his
operation by the book, because he isn’t fully aware of the goals that
the rules are designed to achieve. In stage 3 the student knows that
the rules are only an approximation to what is desired, and that they
have to be modified in special circumstances.
If we think of the institution of literature as a whole, then it is clear
140 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch09.qxd 05/04/2007 4:13 PM Page 140
that you have to be very ambitious to develop your own stage 3 under-
standing of the field. This would involve a huge amount of knowl-
edge, and a remarkable ability to find patterns and interrelations in
that knowledge. Fortunately there are others who can help us into
stage 3: critics such as Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Northrop Frye, and
Harold Bloom, all of whom have developed large syntheses to
express their feelings and intuitions about literature-as-a-whole. In a
more humble way, there are people whose natural and characteristic
movement of mind is from details to wholes and back to details
again. Often such minds have a religious quality, because, as
Coleridge observed in one of his poems, thinking about wholes may
lead you to think about God.
The figures of speech related to stages 1, 2, and 3
So far we have dealt with how the mind characteristically works in
stages 1, 2, and 3. Before going on to stage 4, we need to consider the
relationship of these stages to three figures of speech. The first two
of them were introduced in the chapter on paradigmatic and syntag-
matic relations:
Stage 1 Metaphor
Stage 2 Metonymy
Stage 3 Synecdoche
Metaphor is appropriate to a stage 1 consciousness because it is a way
of relating new experience to old experience, through discovering
appropriate parallels. There is a kind of vertical movement back and
forth between the new and the old. In stage 1, you are plunged into a
new world. How can you begin to talk about what is in it? One method
is to take images from the rest of your experience and apply them in
a metaphorical way. When Macbeth is talking about his own death, he
says, “Out, out, brief candle!” He is using what we all know about can-
dles to express his feelings about what we know very little about—our
own deaths. Metaphor is appropriate in stage 1 because it is an effec-
tive way of expressing emotions, and stage 1 is drenched in emotions.
Metonymy is the figure of speech that indicates things by naming
something near them in time or space. This is appropriate to stage 2,
which is a matter of exploring how things are laid out in time and
space. If you say, “Ottawa has decided to proceed with sanctions
against North Korea,” this use of metonymy is based on your knowl-
edge that the seat of the Canadian federal government is in Ottawa,
something a stranger to Canada might not know. Metonymy often
Vico and the Four Stages of Mental Life 141
ch09.qxd 05/04/2007 4:13 PM Page 141
depends on shared knowledge of the external world for its meaning
to be understood.
Furthermore, metonymy usually carries less emotional intensity
than metaphor. This is partly because metonymy depends on how
things are located in the real world, and often their location is arbi-
trary or accidental. The fact that the government of Canada is
located in Ottawa does not tell you much about the government’s
essential nature. One of the frustrations of moving around the world
in a stage 2 way is that a lot of what you find is arbitrary and acci-
dental, and learning about it does not always reveal meaningful or
useful patterns. Sometimes narratives that have a strong stage 2 feel-
ing take on a senseless or absurd quality, overwhelming us with infor-
mation from a chaotic world.
The literary figure of speech associated with stage 3 is synecdoche,
in which a part is made to stand for the whole (as in “All hands on
deck!”) or the whole is made to stand for a part (“Germany goes to
the Olympics”). The characteristic mental operation in stage 3 is cre-
ating (or identifying) the whole or the unit that unifies a set of dis-
parate parts; this shows why synecdoche provides an appropriate ver-
bal parallel. But synecdoche is not a common literary device, and it
does not carry any identifiable emotional overtones.
There is something necessarily abstract about how the mind of our
stage 3 student works, which distinguishes him from his stage 1 coun-
terpart (who is much more physical and concrete). Often the idea of
the whole is not immediately given to consciousness; it needs to be
constructed out of the component parts. A person looking after a
whole institution (whether large or small) has his attention moving
from part to part, although he may have a very strong feeling for the
complete institution and what it is doing. A similar observation can
be made about putting a work of literature together. It is obvious that
with a long novel, such as Tolstoy’s Anna Karenina, you have to make
a considerable effort to unify it, and to see how the various parts con-
tribute to its whole effect. How, for instance, do the three main mar-
riages fit together—Oblonsky’s conventional, flawed marriage to
Dolly, Anna’s passionate and doomed relation to Vronsky, and
Levin’s relation to his wife Kitty? Once you eventually manage to
unify the novel in your perception, the whole may have a much
greater effect than any of the parts on its own. This is an attractive
aspect of the stage 3 experience.
Stage 4: Liberalism and Disillusionment
We are now prepared to deal with stage 4, which is of a different order
than any of the first three stages. They all involve connecting yourself
142 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch09.qxd 05/04/2007 4:13 PM Page 142
with an institution; stage 4 is a matter of freeing yourself from an insti-
tution, which usually involves a process of deconstruction. If stage 3
develops the philosopher-king—that wise individual who understands
the world, the person we trust to lead an institution—stage 4 can turn
the philosopher-king into a nihilist, who is alienated, sterile, and
unproductive. Although this may not sound like progress, there are
some attractive features to stage 4, which, in its benign form, tends to
produce liberalism rather than disillusionment.
Stage 4 develops out of stage 3, and is dependent on it. You cannot
have a stage 4 experience without getting into stage 3 first. In stage 3
you have a great deal of confidence in your understanding of the
world, and this assurance helps you handle power. You feel that you
know what you are doing. You begin to slip into stage 4 when you
realize that your understanding is based on certain assumptions, or
certain arbitrary features of your own life, which you thought were
universal. Now you suspect, or know, that they are not universal, and
so your understanding is fundamentally flawed and incomplete.
As an example of the transition from stage 3 to stage 4, we could
consider Charles Smithson in The French Lieutenant’s Woman. Smith-
son is typical of nineteenth-century intellectuals in that he lives
almost exclusively in a male-dominated world. Men control his
schooling, his university, and much of his social life. Women are sim-
ply excluded from a lot of his activities. One of Charles’s projects in
life is to gain a general understanding of human experience, and he
tends to see this project in universal terms. He thinks that once he
finds out the truth about the world he will have knowledge that is
applicable everywhere. He confidently looks forward to achieving a
stage 3 understanding of how the world operates. But a surprise
awaits him, in the form of a new doubt. To be catapulted into stage
4, he only needs to suspect that his “truth” is fundamentally built on
his condition as a white upper-class male, and that what he thinks of
as “true” is in fact fundamentally wrong or unacceptable for almost
everyone who is not an upper-class male.
A similar process of disillusionment can be seen in a vivid way in
some Marxists and Christians, who have gone through a period of
utter commitment, and then become disillusioned by discovering a
radical fault in their ideology. The result for such people is far worse
than simply being returned to a neutral, agnostic attitude: it is felt as
an acute loss. A committed partner in a marriage can feel a similar
loss when the union breaks down. The person feels bereft of some-
thing that he or she depended on for an identity and felt would last
a lifetime. Hence the bitterness of the acute stage 4 experience.
Structuralism can help move a person from stage 3 to stage 4,
because it suggests that reality, as we apprehend it, is encoded in a
Vico and the Four Stages of Mental Life 143
ch09.qxd 05/04/2007 4:13 PM Page 143
particular language (such as English, or Hindi), and so the reality
that you see depends in part on the language you speak. This per-
ception is at first satisfying and liberating, because it helps you to
understand the variety in the world and some reasons for conflict
between individuals, if they speak different languages. Critics may
disagree about the meaning of a novel because they “speak different
languages”—that is, they have been nurtured in different cultural tra-
ditions and, in effect, they live in different worlds, even when they are
reading the same novel. This is a benign form of the stage 4 experi-
ence, which produces a liberal attitude toward the world.
Stages 1, 2, and 3 all provide a basis for action; stage 4 provides a
way of attacking any rationale for action that claims to be certain. The
verbal devices associated with the first three stages all provide ways of
saying things, of presenting a vision of the world. The verbal device
that corresponds to stage 4 is irony, which is a means of conveying
two or more ideas at once, and leaving the reader uncertain about
what you really mean. Some professors have a way of saying, “Your
idea is an interesting one,” which leaves you uncertain as to whether
they want to hear more about it or whether, indeed, they never want
to hear you mention it again. In some cases of irony (such as sar-
casm), the implied meaning is the opposite of the literal meaning.
The lack of certainty that irony expresses is appropriate to stage 4,
because a person immersed in stage 4 never really knows what he
thinks is true.
Stages 1 and 3 are attractive because of the sense of wonder that
characterizes them; it is hard to imagine a person immersed in either
of these stages who is untouched by awe and reverence. A person in
stage 2 may seem quite mechanical or reductive, and someone in
stage 4 has all the problems associated with the death of God and the
birth of the absurd. Many productive literary scholars operate in a
stage 2 mode, compiling information and doing historical research,
an activity based on connections in time and space. The characteris-
tic postmodern situation has the nature of stage 4, in which there are
many ideologies in conflict with one another, and no overarching
sense of truth.
This quality of stage 4 is evident in the broken, ironic quality of T.S.
Eliot’s early poetry, and blatant in his long poem The Waste Land. The
rise of interest in literary theory, and the importance of theoretical
conflicts in literary discussions, indicates that stage 4 is important to
many people who are professionally involved with literature now. It
seems clear that there are various ways of viewing works of literature,
and that there are many disputes that we cannot settle simply by
appealing to “the facts.” We need to classify the various ways of look-
144 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch09.qxd 05/04/2007 4:13 PM Page 144
ing at literature. Only then can we see what the main paradigms are,
and work out some way of dealing with paradigm conflicts. This prob-
lem faces most university English departments, although few of them
manage to address it directly.4
Vico’s ricorso: the process of recycling
It is not hard to imagine someone going through all four stages in
her relation to an institution such as a company, or a Christian
church, although a person could stop permanently at any one of the
four stages. But what comes after stage 4? Vico said that civilizations
in stage 4 tend to be invaded and taken over by more vigorous out-
siders (often seen as barbarians) who are in stage 1 or 2. What this
suggests is that the individual who has reached stage 4 may then start
a ricorso, or a reoccurrence of the cycle, which leads her to stage 1 in
another field of activity. For example, a person who had arrived at
stage 4 in literary studies might well feel that there was such radical
disagreement between critics that the whole field was impossibly
chaotic. But in her progress through the stages she might have come
to feel that the most important meanings in literature for her were
those related to the functioning of the unconscious mind in authors
and readers. This might turn her in the direction of psychoanalysis,
which studies the workings of the unconscious mind. In the attempt
to recognize and come to terms with her own unconscious, she might
enter analysis herself and feel some of the reverence for trained ana-
lysts that she once felt for her professors of literature. This would be
a sign that she was starting off again in stage 1, and that a ricorso had
taken place.
How to use the paradigm of the four stages
Vico’s paradigm is a useful one because most people seem to be able
to relate the four stages to their own experience in a variety of ways.
They can usually think of different areas of their lives in which they
are operating in one or another of the stages. So a university student
might be in stage 4 with respect to his experience of high school, in
stage 3 with a small business he is operating, in stage 2 with his uni-
versity career, and in stage 1 with a woman he is in love with. It would
probably be clear from his actions that he was behaving quite differ-
ently in each of the four areas, which might seem inconsistent to him
if he didn’t know about Vico’s paradigm.
People viewed from the outside, by others, sometimes seem to
have settled permanently in one or another of the stages. A person
Vico and the Four Stages of Mental Life 145
ch09.qxd 05/04/2007 4:13 PM Page 145
who was regularly in stage 1 would have an emotionally charged life
and probably would lead a chaotic existence. A person who was
always struggling through a jungle of detail and trying to work out
how to master it would be a stage 2 person. A stage 3 person might
find her natural niche in life as a chief executive officer in whatever
she did, and a stage 4 person would be permanently disillusioned
and cynical.
The four stages can help you understand certain works of litera-
ture, either by offering a classification system for the characters in the
work, or by allowing you to see the progress of one character through
several stages of development. Some examples are listed in the chart
on page 148. Some readers may object that Vico’s four stages are like
a straightjacket, and that imposing them on works of literature (or on
people) is distorting. Of course this may be true in individual cases,
and I am not claiming universality or absolute “rightness” or “com-
pleteness” for Vico’s paradigm. It is valuable when it allows you to see
a pattern in a work of literature, and when that pattern helps you
understand your own emotional response to the work. If you find this
happening, then the use of the four-stage paradigm will seem amply
justified. If you find that it isn’t useful in this way, you will probably for-
get about it, and that will be for the best. There is no point in hang-
ing on to theories that aren’t useful to you.
I will provide two brief examples of how Vico’s paradigm can be
used to illuminate poems by Wordsworth. The first is “She was a
Phantom of Delight,” the moving short poem about Wordsworth’s
wife Mary.5 In the first stanza he falls in love with her image: she
“gleams upon his sight,” and he finds her
A dancing shape, an image gay,
To haunt, to startle, and way-lay.
This is stage 1 material; and it is striking that Wordsworth recognizes
the ambiguity of stage 1—it is at one and the same time delightful,
enthralling, and threatening. Mary seems to him to be a “phantom”
that could “haunt” and “way-lay” him. In the second stanza, Words-
worth sees Mary more closely: “a spirit, yet a woman too”—
A creature not too bright or good
For human nature’s daily food.
This stanza has a more down-to-earth feeling and seems more like
stage 2 experience: Wordsworth is concerned with working out the
details of day-to-day living.
146 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch09.qxd 05/04/2007 4:13 PM Page 146
The third stanza represents stage 3, with its broad perspective and
the tranquillity that accompanies it. (Twentieth-century readers may
be put off by the word “machine” in this stanza, because we see
machines as inhuman; but there were very few machines in
Wordsworth’s life, and the word was often used to refer to the human
body.)
And now I see with eye serene
The very pulse of the machine;
A being breathing thoughtful breath,
A traveller between life and death;
The reason firm, the temperate will,
Endurance, foresight, strength, and skill;
A perfect woman, nobly planned,
To warn, to comfort, and command;
And yet a spirit still, and bright
With something of angelic light.
The steadiness of stage 3 may seem a little oppressive in the first eight
lines of this stanza (could a person’s life ever be that controlled?)
but it is alleviated by the continuing presence of stage 1 in the last
two lines.
In Wordsworth’s long autobiographical masterpiece, The Prelude,
different parts of the poem show the process of his moving through
the first three stages of Vico’s paradigm. In the early (and best-
known) part of the poem Wordsworth is a child, discovering the
power of nature. He seems clearly to be living in stage 1: he is pos-
sessed by the beauty, the majesty, and the terror of being isolated in
a natural setting. In the middle of the poem he describes the period
he spent in France in his twenties, just after the French Revolution,
when he became concerned with the significant political issues of the
day, especially how to organize a just society, to replace the monarchy
which had been overthrown. Here he seems to be viewing life in a
stage 2, metonymical way; he is concerned with practical questions
about how people can live together. In the final section of The Prelude,
Wordsworth consciously uses synecdoche—that is, he uses a part of
his life to illuminate the whole. He describes climbing Mount Snow-
don, passing through a layer of clouds, and emerging above them on
the mountaintop to gain a grand panorama of the surrounding
landscape. He compares this experience to having toiled through
bewildering events in his own life and then reaching a stage in which
the whole of his life makes sense to him.
It is an interesting feature of Wordsworth’s development that he
Vico and the Four Stages of Mental Life 147
ch09.qxd 05/04/2007 4:13 PM Page 147
148 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
The
application
of
Vico’s
four
stages
to
some
works
of
literature
STAGE
1:
METAPHOR
STAGE
2:
METONYMY
STAGE
3:
SYNECDOCHE
STAGE
4:
IRONY
The
Tempest
Miranda,
being
initiated
Caliban,
trying
to
under-
Prospero,
organizing
society
Antonio,
cynical
and
power-hungry.
(Shakespeare)
into
society
(“O
brave
stand
and
usurp
Pros-
and
preparing
for
his
return
new
world
...”)
pero’s
power.
to
Milan.
The
Prelude
Childhood
encounters
Wordsworth’s
radical
Climbing
Mt
Snowdon;
Wordsworth
doesn’t
reach
this
stage.
(Wordsworth)
with
nature.
theorizing
about
society
conscious
symbolism,
using
This
contributes
to
his
tendency
in
France.
He
suffers
an
the
part
to
represent
the
to
be
self-centred
and
pompous
emotional
breakdown.
whole.
at
times.
Heart
of
Darkness
Marlow
the
innocent;
also
The
“pilgrims”
at
the
The
idealization
of
Kurtz
by
Marlow
returns
to
Brussels,
feels
(Conrad)
the
harlequin.
Central
Station.
Marlow
and
others;
Kurtz’s
revulsion
for
modern
civilization,
and
success
seems
to
indicate
a
lies
to
Kurtz’s
fiancée
about
Kurtz’s
superior
understanding
of
last
words.
the
operation.
The
French
Charles’s
first
encounter
Dr
Grogan’s
explanation
Charles
in
the
church,
after
Confrontation
at
the
end
between
Lieutenant’s
with
Sarah.
of
Sarah’s
behaviour
as
being
seduced
by
Sarah,
Charles
and
Sarah:
two
possible
Woman
hysteria
and
masochism.
trying
to
understand
his
modes
of
life
for
Sarah;
two
possible
(John
Fowles)
world.
endings
for
the
novel.
Zen
and
the
Art
of
Chris,
the
child
tempted
Phaedrus
as
a
student
of
Phaedrus
wants
to
place
Phaedrus’s
mental
breakdown
and
Motorcycle
by
devils,
as
in
Goethe’s
science;
he
is
not
satisfied
things
in
the
context
of
catatonia.
A
ricorso
is
attempted
Maintenance
“Erlkönig.”
because
he
needs
stage
3.
“quality.”
The
narrator’s
through
shock
treatment.
The
effect
(Robert
Pirsig)
integrated
attitude
toward
seems
to
be
to
return
him
to
stages
2
technology.
and
3.
The
White
Hotel
Pornographic
sections
Freud’s
discourse
The
Promised
Land
Babi
Yar
(D.M.Thomas)
ch09.qxd 05/04/2007 4:13 PM Page 148
does not seem to have arrived at stage 4 in his relation to nature. At
the end of The Prelude he sees himself as a “prophet of nature,” teach-
ing his readers about the joys of having a nourishing relation with the
natural world. The passage makes him seem conservative and some-
what pompous in his relations with others, and shows some of the dis-
advantages of becoming too identified with stage 3. Although
Wordsworth did not complete the full cycle of Vico’s paradigm, it is
illuminating about his development up to that point.
Another useful function of the four-stage model is that it can help
explain the kind of reception certain texts receive from different
kinds of readers. If a stage 4 professor presents a stage 4 text (such as
Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness) to a group of students who are
mostly in stage 1 and stage 2, predictable difficulties—such as bore-
dom and lack of comprehension—will result. Many of the students
simply will not be able to appreciate the intricacies and subtleties of
stage 4 experience and they may not want to encounter it.
Vico’s model can also help you understand your relations with
other people. Students in stages 1 and 2 often seem to be operating
in entirely different worlds. A stage 1 student usually doesn’t want to
talk very much about literature at all, since his experience of it is per-
sonal and intense, and he probably doesn’t want to negotiate with
other students about the meaning of a novel that is important to him.
(I have noticed this particularly during class discussions of The Hob-
bit.) Stage 2 students often work very hard but they sometimes give
the impression that they don’t know where they are going. It is usu-
ally the professor’s role to be in stage 3, and to point out the view
from that perspective; but sometimes the value of this view is incom-
prehensible to students who are in the first two stages, although it
can still be dazzling or impressive in some way. Often stage 4 people
(whether they are professors or students) are hard to get along with,
because they are full of cynicism and denial. They can show what is
wrong, selfish, or self-centred about almost anything, but they don’t
know what they believe themselves.
One disadvantage of the four-stage model is that some of the stages
may seem unreal to those who have not experienced them. Someone
who has little experience of stage 3 or 4 may simply not know what
these stages feel like. Also, some students may resist the “relativizing”
effect of the whole paradigm. Vico does away with the possibility of
absolute knowledge. These are real difficulties, but identifying them
and working on them can have considerable educational value.
Studying a novel such as Boris Pasternak’s Dr Zhivago, which contains
characters in the various stages, can help to break the ice. In any case,
this is a difficulty frequently encountered in the study of literature:
Vico and the Four Stages of Mental Life 149
ch09.qxd 05/04/2007 4:13 PM Page 149
readers are required to respond to, and discuss, experiences that
they meet in books but that they have not encountered in their own
lives.
Notes
1 This has been demonstrated by Hayden White, who has used Vico’s
four stages to analyse the different ways in which historians write
accounts of events in the past. See his Metahistory: The Historical Imagina-
tion in Nineteenth-Century Europe (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University
Press, 1973); Tropics of Discourse (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University
Press, 1978); and The Content of the Form: Narrative Discourse and Histori-
cal Representation (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1987). I
first encountered Vico’s four stages in an article by Hans Kellner
analysing The Magic Mountain by Thomas Mann: “The Inflatable Trope
as Narrative Theory,” Diacritics, Spring 1991.
2 Like many people who have been influenced by Vico’s thought, I have
adapted his four stages for my own purposes, to make things simpler
and clearer. One major change I have made is that my stage 1 is prima-
rily exciting and enjoyable, whereas Vico thought of the first stage of
the development of a society as being primitive, brutal, and terrifying,
as well as having moments or periods of bliss. His second stage also
contains a lot of cruel domination by strong, powerful individuals, who
impose an iron discipline on their society. Vico’s general outlook is
anti-democratic, and he has considerable respect for authoritarian
social systems held together by religious awe and personal fear and
shame. For anyone who wants a more precise idea of Vico’s stages, I
recommend Isaiah Berlin’s excellent long article entitled “The Philo-
sophical Ideas of Giambattista Vico,” in his book Three Critics of the
Enlightenment: Vico, Hamann, Herder, listed in the further reading sec-
tion.
3 Leo Tolstoy, War and Peace, trans. Rosemary Edmonds (London: Dent,
1950) 300.
4 In Professing Literature: An Institutional History (University of Chicago
Press, 1987), Gerald Graff suggests that the best way to deal with con-
flicts among members of an English department about different views
of literary study is to make them part of the curriculum, so that the dif-
ferences are openly debated, and the vitality that often emerges in the
discussion of curricular reform can actually be transferred to students
via the curriculum itself.
5 William Wordsworth, “She was a phantom of delight,” Selected Poems and
Prefaces, ed. Jack Stillinger (Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1965) 192.
150 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch09.qxd 05/04/2007 4:13 PM Page 150
Questions to help you check your understanding of this chapter
1 Do you have a clear idea of the main differences between stages 1, 2,
and 3?
2 Can you think of an example, in your own experience of an institution
(such as your high school, or a team you played on), in which you pro-
gressed through the first three stages?
3 Explain how stage 4 can lead to a ricorso, that is, the beginning of a new
cycle.
4 Can you think of a book or a movie that illustrates Vico’s four stages
well?
Suggestions for further reading
Isaiah Berlin, Three Critics of the Enlightenment: Vico, Hamann, Herder (Lon-
don: Pimlico, 2000).
Alfred North Whitehead, “The Rhythm of Education,” in The Aims of Educa-
tion (New York: Mentor, 1949). Whitehead’s very interesting essay says
that we should think about education as a series of three stages—
romance, mastery, and generalization—which are similar to Vico’s first
three stages.
Vico and the Four Stages of Mental Life 151
ch09.qxd 05/04/2007 4:13 PM Page 151
CHAPTER TEN
Myths and Demystification
To engage fully with a myth, you need to be in a child-like state of
mind: open, trusting, uncritical. Myths are the stories that are told
and retold in communities, passed down from parent to child, and
they embody deep, communal beliefs, and sometimes deal with
widely-shared fears.1 Myths can be lucidly present in children’s sto-
ries, such as The Hobbit. This narrative takes place “in another world”;
the plot depends on a magic ring that confers invisibility on the
wearer; there is a clear distinction between good and evil; and evil
beings (such as goblins and orcs) can be killed without compunction.
But the main appeal of the story lies in Bilbo’s surprising (and con-
vincing) development from being someone who leads a pleasant but
trivial existence to becoming the moral leader of the group of
dwarves in their quest to re-establish themselves in their ancestral
homeland. When the dwarves arrive at his hobbit-hole, Bilbo is
immersed in housecleaning and cooking, and he seems to have no
significant connections with others. By the end, his down-to-earth
virtues (such as humility, empathy, and courage) elicit the admira-
tion of the dwarves and give him a major role in the final confronta-
tion between good and evil. This wonderful myth could provide sub-
stantial reassurance to a child who feels weak and insignificant.
In literary criticism the word “myth” is used in two very different
ways. These correspond to two different attitudes you might have
toward the story of The Hobbit. It sometimes is used to refer to a nar-
rative that provides you with a fundamental truth; on the other hand,
it can be used to refer to one that is designed to delude, mystify, and
perhaps exploit you. When the word is used in its honorific sense, it
is often linked to religion or religious experience:
What human beings have in common is revealed in myths. Myths
are stories of our search through the ages for truth, for meaning,
for significance. We all need to tell our story and to understand
our story. We all need to understand death and to cope with death,
and we all need help in our passages from birth to life and then to
death. We need for life to signify, to touch the eternal, to under-
stand the mysterious, to find out who we are.2
[Myth] is a condensed account of man’s Being and attempts to
represent reality with structural fidelity, to indicate at a stroke the
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 152
152
ch10.qxd 17/03/2007 11:13 AM Page 152
salient and fundamental relations which for a man constitute real-
ity. A myth in this sense is primitive, communal, and religious in
origin.... Myth is not make-believe but the most direct and positive
assertion of belief that man can discover. Myth is an indispensable
principle of unity in individual lives and in the life of society.3
The common elements in these two descriptions of myth are striking:
they both assert that myths present what is sacred, eternal, or vitally
important for an individual person, and they imply that myths fulfill
a need that is widely shared in society. Different people will find
meaning in different myths. So the myth of Prometheus, the rebel
against authority, who suffers brutal physical punishment for the
good of mankind, can have a sacred meaning for an altruistic person
(as can the story of Jesus). W.B. Yeats’s mythic image of the ancient
Celtic tower, which he had reconstructed as his workplace for writing
poetry, can seem like a shared image for the contemplative mind that
needs to stand firm and strong in the midst of adversity.
Literature that moves us greatly often does so by gaining access to
a deep level of our being, and articulating a pattern in life that we
feel is crucial for us. Hermann Hesse’s Siddhartha can provide a pow-
erful example for a young man searching in both the secular and
religious worlds for his spiritual home, and finding it in an unex-
pected place. Margaret Laurence’s The Diviners can provide a moving
pattern of a woman’s search for meaning in life. A Jungian psycholo-
gist has said that you get the true meaning of a myth when you feel it
spinning away inside you.4 He argues that myths live in our uncon-
scious minds, and that literature can draw on this unconscious knowl-
edge.
It is useful to have a word such as “myth” to designate those works
of literature that are extremely powerful for many people. A problem
arises, however, when myths are said to be “eternal” or “universal.”
People who maintain this are generalizing in a very broad way, and
they seem to be asserting more than anyone could know. Some may
claim that James Joyce’s Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man attains the
status of myth because it presents the universal quest of a young man
beset with restricting influences to find his own, lonely way forward
in life; but another reader may think that the experience is far from
universal. He may feel that Joyce’s novel presents a limited and par-
ticular experience, and that the protagonist’s solution to his prob-
lems—his need to escape from family, religion, and country—is
facile.5
When I have used The Hobbit as a text in a course, there are always
some students in the class for whom it is a very important story, often
Myths and Demystification 153
ch10.qxd 17/03/2007 11:13 AM Page 153
because they had it read to them when they were children. There is
usually another group who dislike the story and are critical of it, and
they use the word “myth” in its other, pejorative sense. Myths, in this
sense, are misleading or incorrect stories, which are especially annoy-
ing when they are presented as “the truth” to an audience whose
members are able to assess them critically. Roland Barthes explores
this aspect of myths in his witty and iconoclastic book Mythologies.
Barthes was particularly sensitive to the imposition of myths because
he grew up as an outsider to the middle-class culture of France in the
1930s. Because he was a Protestant amid a Catholic majority, because
he was poor, because he suffered from tuberculosis and had to spend
long periods in sanatoriums, perhaps above all because he was gay,
Barthes was aware that many of the values enshrined in middle-class
French life were not appealing to him—in fact, they put him on the
margins of society, and he found them stifling. He knew that these val-
ues were not universal or eternal, and he became interested in how
they had been created and disseminated throughout France in adver-
tising, television, and popular literature.
Barthes defined the central deception in myth as being the substi-
tution of an “eternal status” for an accurate historical explanation.
What he meant by this is that a historical event (such as the Russian
Revolution) may be presented not in terms of what actually hap-
pened (an outcome of a conflict between groups in society, the result
of which was uncertain at the time), but as an event that had to hap-
pen, as though some omnipotent force (or god) had decreed it
would happen. Using this approach, it would be possible to write an
account of the Russian Revolution that would make it appear
inevitable. The author would have to leave out a lot of information,
and in this process he would be creating a myth. The myth would
express an ideology: it would bolster the set of values promoted by
the Revolution.
It is easy for Westerners to scoff at Russian historians for rewriting
their history in order to falsify it. It is more alarming to think that a
similar process could occur in one’s own society—and Barthes’s book
was forceful because he pointed out how this falsification occurs in
everyday life. It happens, for instance, when politicians and journal-
ists call an event that has just occurred “historic,” even though in ten
years it may seem insignificant. They are, in part, trying to make the
event seem historic by describing it in this way. An example in the
area of literary studies is the belief that great works of literature (such
as The Odyssey or Shakespeare’s most famous plays) are eternally and
permanently great. This is the myth about “great” literature. The his-
torical account of “great” literature (as opposed to the mythical) is
154 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch10.qxd 17/03/2007 11:13 AM Page 154
that certain texts, such as King Lear, achieve the status of greatness
because they are widely read and performed, and that this happens
because of the decisions of readers, teachers, and directors. If (for
some historical reason) the work starts receiving much less attention,
it will no longer belong to the canon of great literature.
Another myth that has some currency in universities is the idea
that it is possible to read everything. Of course no one is able to do
this, but sometimes students assume that professors have an infinite
amount of knowledge at their disposal, simply because the professors
have more knowledge than students. Scholarly books often seem to
assume that there are no limits to the amount of information the
reader wants about that particular subject—which can be very
oppressive for readers, who may feel inferior because they can’t imag-
ine absorbing all that material.
Barthes’s idea of myth is based on the notion that those who accept
a myth are being deceived in some way. This may imply that some-
body or some group of people are doing the deceiving, but it may
not. To take a very simple example, it often happens that when we
are asked to give an account of some aspect of our life (why we went
to a certain university, for instance), we make that choice seem more
intelligent than it actually was. In doing so we may stress some aspects
of the story, and suppress others. We are then presenting a fiction
about our own lives—either consciously or unconsciously. Similarly a
company, when advertising its product, may want to promote a myth
about how wonderful that product is. Often the tone of voice in tele-
vision advertising is enough to make it clear that a myth is being
promoted.
It is easy to accept that an individual or a group might con-
sciously try to deceive an audience, but there is a more complex
idea behind Barthes’s Mythologies. It is possible for élites or domi-
nant groups in a society to spontaneously generate myths about
their own superiority, and to use those myths to maintain and bol-
ster their position. Barthes feels that this is what happens in capi-
talist bourgeois society—that through the mass media, capitalist
bourgeois values and norms are programmed into the minds of
almost everyone, with the underlying assumption that these values
and norms are “naturally right.” This promotes striving for material
goods and competition between people, which ensure the continu-
ance of a capitalist economy, with its key distinction between the
wealthy and the poor. Barthes is not saying that there is an organ-
ized plot on the part of one group in society to deceive and exploit
another group. Myths can arise spontaneously, and become identi-
fied with a culture.
Myths and Demystification 155
ch10.qxd 17/03/2007 11:13 AM Page 155
Myth analysis and literature
To analyse a myth in Barthes’s sense means to move from accepting
it uncritically as the truth to being aware of how it has been con-
structed and perhaps to rejecting it. How is this useful for students of
literature?
In the first place, myth analysis is useful in reading many aspects of
popular culture that can be thought of as “texts,” even if they are not
entirely presented in words. Advertising, political speeches, sermons,
and packaging, for example, can be based on implicit myths. If we
are aware of this possibility, we are in less danger of swallowing the
hook or accepting a meaning that it is not in our own interest to
accept. It can also be exciting to see the overlap between literary
studies and more general cultural analysis.
In the second place, myth analysis allows us to understand at a new
level certain forms of literature that are themselves based on power-
ful and widely accepted myths. The standard Harlequin romance is
based on the idea that a woman can find happiness through roman-
tic love, and very often this happiness involves marrying a man from
a higher social or professional group. So in these novels nurses marry
doctors, and thereby enter a “higher” level of life that they think will
be wonderful, even though what actually goes on in their future hus-
bands’ lives may be either unknown or very unattractive to them. We
tend to “romanticize” areas of life that are inaccessible to us, and
Harlequin romances are built on this tendency. When we demythol-
ogize stories like these, they will probably have much less power for
us.
Third, a good deal of literature is about the process of demytholo-
gization, which often clears the way for the truth, or for a more satis-
fying kind of myth. Bertolt Brecht’s The Life of Galileo, for instance,
presents a famous scientist not as a great man but as someone who, at
a crucial moment in the development of science, gave in to fear and
his own sensuality—and so prevented science from entering a period
of rapid development. One of the themes of the play, which Galileo
articulates at the end, is that “great men” oppress those around
them.6 Another example of demythologization occurs in Zen and the
Art of Motorcycle Maintenance, by Robert Pirsig.7 The protagonist is an
English teacher at a college in the Midwest who comes to question
the value of the very teaching that he and his colleagues are doing.
This teaching, he finds, is based on a myth about the value of follow-
ing the rules of grammar and rhetoric, and he wants to develop a
mode of instruction that will allow students to make use of their own
intuition more than they do. This leads him to undermine one of the
156 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch10.qxd 17/03/2007 11:13 AM Page 156
central myths of Western civilization, a myth that splits the world into
two fields: the technological and the humanistic. In the process of
demystifying this binary opposition, the protagonist comes into con-
flict with the academic authorities at the University of Chicago, who
do not want to have the myth challenged.
So literature is often about demystification, and the idea of myth is
helpful in analysing the ways in which mystification takes place. But
literature frequently promotes myths, too, and we need to be aware
of this process as well. I think it is probable that many of the great
classics present myths that we see as truths, like a child entranced by
The Hobbit.
The awkward position of the myth analyst
Barthes notes that critics who analyse myths put themselves at risk,
because every myth they uncover distances them from the social
group that accepts the myth. If they continued their activity indefi-
nitely, they could end up in complete isolation. Since their work is
closely related to deconstruction, they might well find themselves in
a virulent stage 4 world, with many of the seemingly solid structures
in their lives collapsing around them. But there are two other out-
comes for the myth analyst that are less bleak than this. The first is
based on the idea that there is an important difference between the
myths promulgated by the dominant group in society and those put
forward by minority groups. The dominant group’s myths have polit-
ical and social power on their side. They are repeated from every cor-
ner of the world, or so it seems, and they may become especially
immune to criticism. This makes it all the more important to exam-
ine these myths critically, to determine what they imply about human
life and social organization, and what processes of exploitation they
endorse. Otherwise the myths of the dominant group in society can
be extremely oppressive. The myths of minority groups are less dan-
gerous, because they are constantly under attack by the dominant
group, and their shortcomings will usually be made evident. So the
analyst of myths is likely to be most useful when she looks at the
sacred cows in her society. If she deconstructs them, it is true that she
may find herself rejected in certain places; no king likes to be told
that the clothes he is wearing are imaginary. But the analyst may well
find herself welcomed by marginal groups.
The second answer to the problem of myth analysis leading to a
meaningless stage 4 world is that some myths can survive the analysis
and emerge stronger because of it. For instance, most religions are
built on myths, and those myths may enjoin and support certain
Myths and Demystification 157
ch10.qxd 17/03/2007 11:13 AM Page 157
social practices. The parable of the Good Samaritan (from the gospel
of Luke) might be a case in point. It encourages readers and listen-
ers to help people in distress. But if this is an action the group wants
to promote, the myth can be examined critically and accepted con-
sciously. Some critics would say that this process even leads to an
improvement in a group’s myths.
The value of analysing myths is related to the fact that social
groups create paradigms and so (in part) create “reality,” and litera-
ture itself can be an effective way of both creating social realities, and
uncovering how this process works. There is a pattern in many peo-
ple’s lives of growing up with a set of myths, criticizing them, and dis-
covering new myths when the old ones fail. This is one aspect of the
process outlined in Vico’s four stages. There is always the danger that
the person who becomes more aware may find himself stuck in a cyn-
ical, stage 4 mindset. But this opens the possibility of discovering new
and more satisfying myths. As Shakespeare put it in King Lear, “Noth-
ing ... sees miracles but misery.”
Notes
1 The Irish critic Denis Donoghue has described myth in the following
way: “A myth is a certain kind of story, told over and over again for the
benefit of the community to which it is addressed; as Christians receive
the story of the birth, death, and resurrection of Christ. Myths enable
the people who receive them to cope with ‘the absolutism of reality’ ...
by giving names and personalities to the forces they mostly dread. Typi-
cally, myths are stories about a god or gods, because communities need
to be told how to conduct their lives in relation to the forces that
apparently encompass them.” This quotation is taken from an article in
the New York Review of Books in which Donoghue assesses the contribu-
tion of Northrop Frye, the outstanding Canadian critic, to the study of
myth. Donoghue says that between 1957 and 1972, roughly, Frye was
the pre-eminent literary critic in the English-speaking world. (“Mister
Myth,” New York Review of Books, 9 April 1992.)
2 Joseph Campbell and Bill Moyers, The Power of Myth (New York: Double-
day, 1988) 5.
3 George Whalley, Poetic Process (London: Routledge and Kegan Paul,
1953) 178. An excellent description of myth is given by C.S. Lewis in An
Experiment in Criticism (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1961)
40-50. Lewis says, “The experience [of myth] may be sad or joyful but it
is always grave.... We feel it to be numinous” (44).
4 Robert A. Johnson, He: Understanding Masculine Psychology, 2nd ed. (New
York: Harper Row, 1989) x.
158 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch10.qxd 17/03/2007 11:13 AM Page 158
5 When critics describe a story as “eternal” or “universal,” it seems clear
that they are expressing a particular feeling, not a fact. What they expe-
rience might be expressed as follows: “Something like this story is so
important (to me) that it must always have existed, and it will go on
being meaningful in the future.” Saying that something is infinitely
extended in time is a metaphor for a particular intensity of feeling, as
when someone says, “I will love you forever.”
6 Bertolt Brecht, Life of Galileo (London: Eyre Methuen, 1980).
7 Robert Pirsig, Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance (New York: Mor-
row, 1974).
Questions to help you check your understanding of this chapter
1 In literary criticism, the word “myth” has two different meanings that
are almost opposites. Describe the difference between them. Which
meaning seems more normal to you?
2 If you want to deconstruct a society’s myths, why is it helpful to be an
outsider to that society?
3 Why might a person be able to live his life more easily if he had a myth
(in the positive sense) in which he had a strong belief?
Suggestions for further reading
Roland Barthes, Mythologies (Frogmore, England: Paladin, 1973).
George Whalley, “Symbol and Myth,” Poetic Process (London: Routledge and
Kegan Paul, 1953) 164-89. This book presents a view of the art of literature
from the artist’s point of view, making large claims for the “reality” that
artists intuit and create. It is difficult to read, but immensely rewarding.
Myths and Demystification 159
ch10.qxd 17/03/2007 11:13 AM Page 159
CHAPTER ELEVEN
Structuralism (iii): Narratology
“Daddy always said that at the heart of everything—religions, countries, fam-
ilies—you’d find not doctrines or philosophical propositions, but stories, that
stories took you as close as you could get to the heart of things.”
—Robert Hellenga, The Fall of a Sparrow1
Stories exist everywhere in the world, as Roland Barthes pointed out
in a famous article.2 We encounter them in books, movies, myths,
comic strips, and confessions. They exist in every known society, and
the ability to enjoy them is common at a very early age. Most people
have a clear sense of when a narrative is satisfying and when it is not.
In the latter case they say, “What’s the point of that story?” or “You
haven’t finished your story.” When the narrative is successful, how-
ever, they read or listen with close attention, and when the story is
over they may feel that an important human problem has been
brought to a conclusion.
Narratology is the study of how stories work and how readers
understand them. It asks questions such as “What are the elements of
a narrative? Are there rules that tell us how to combine those ele-
ments to form a good story? What other formal properties are there
in narratives? What unacknowledged agreements are there between
authors and readers, so readers can have expectations that authors
can fulfill?” It is tempting to say that narratology is the science of how
stories work, but like most interesting literary investigations it cannot
pretend to be entirely objective. It achieves its purposes best when it
helps us understand our subjective responses to literature, or the
shared response of a community that sets a high value on a particu-
lar story. Narratology can highlight elements of texts that are often
overlooked. It can help explain why some endings are satisfying while
others are not. It can also help us discover similarities between texts
that at first seem very different.
The elements of a narrative
What are the elements of a narrative? The answer to this question
depends on the way in which we approach the text, and this involves
an arbitrary choice. There is no single “right” way, and a method of
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 160
160
ch11.qxd 17/03/2007 11:16 AM Page 160
analysis needs to justify itself by producing interesting insights about
the texts we care about. In this chapter I will deal with four different
kinds of analysis, each of which focuses on different elements in the
text. The first method begins with the act of narration itself; the sec-
ond focuses on how “discourse” mediates events; the third deals with
speed of action; and the last explores patterns in the structure of plots.
With these four methods at your disposal, you will be able to see and
evaluate aspects of stories that might have escaped your notice before.
The act of narration
A good place to begin is the action of telling the story, and how it is
presented in the text. At this level there is (a) someone telling the
story, (b) the story itself, and (c) someone listening to it or reading
it. The teller and the listener are often present in the story, and some-
times they take part in the action. In Hugh MacLennan’s The Watch
that Ends the Night, the narrator tells the story of his life, and, as we
hear about it, we learn a good deal about his consciousness.3 He is,
for instance, interested in Freudian psychology and well versed in
world politics. In the course of his life he has acquired a kind of wis-
dom that is present in his narrating voice from the start of the novel.
What we hear about in the novel is what he thinks is important.
This novel begins with the sentence, “There are some stories into
which the reader should be led gently, and I think this may be one of
them.” The author has in mind a reader whom he wants to take care
of in some way. The person or audience that is present in the text is
called the “narratee,” and that audience is often different from the
actual reader. Nevertheless it may be an important aspect of the nar-
rative that it defines a particular audience. In Coleridge’s “The Rime
of the Ancient Mariner,” the response of the narratee (the Wedding-
Guest) suggests the spellbinding power of the Mariner, and a person
reading the poem almost two centuries after it was written may also
feel this same power. In Joseph Conrad’s “Youth,” Marlow talks to a
group of successful people who began their working lives in the mer-
chant marine. His subject is the enthusiasm for life that he felt as a
youth and how it has disappeared—a theme directly related to the
experience of his middle-aged listeners.
Some texts say a lot about the narrator and the narratee, and oth-
ers say nothing explicit at all. Many novels are written from an
“omniscient” point of view: the identity of the narrator is not speci-
fied, although he or she has access to the minds of all the characters.
Even in these novels it is sometimes possible to detect limitations in
the understanding of the speaker. Similarly, the fact that a narratee is
Structuralism (iii): Narratology 161
ch11.qxd 17/03/2007 11:16 AM Page 161
not specified does not mean that the audience is not characterized.
In reading a text you may get the feeling that it is written for some-
one who isn’t paying attention (because things you remember are
unnecessarily repeated from time to time); or, at the other extreme,
you may feel that the story goes over your head and is intended for
someone much more knowledgeable than you. The status of the nar-
rator and narratee may be important elements in the text, and they
may influence our response to it.
“Fabula” vs discourse: the “events-as-they-happened” vs. the story
that presents them
The Watch that Ends the Night is about a series of events that we can
imagine as actually having happened. Here are some of the key
events, in the order in which they would have occurred:
1. George Stewart, the protagonist and narrator, grows up in Mon-
treal and, as a teenager, falls in love with Catherine Carey. She is
physically weak because she has a congenital heart disease.
2. Catherine goes to McGill University and marries Jerome Martell,
a successful surgeon. They have a child.
3. Jerome leaves his family to fight in the Spanish Civil War, and he
is reported dead.
4. Some years later, George and Catherine marry.
5. Some years after that, they learn that Jerome is not dead; he
returns to Montreal and wants to take up his relationship with
Catherine.
6. Catherine has an embolism and nearly dies because of the strain
of having Jerome come back; George as a result comes close to a
nervous breakdown.
7. Jerome manages to help both Catherine and George in their dis-
tress, and they both recover.
8. Jerome leaves Montreal and is not heard from again.
We could imagine being fully informed about all of these events, as
though we had an omniscient or God’s-eye view of them, or as
162 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch11.qxd 17/03/2007 11:16 AM Page 162
though we had videotapes of everything that had happened. But as
soon as we consider this possibility, we realize that (a) a huge num-
ber of tapes would be needed, (b) the tapes would not show us what
was going on in the minds of the characters, and (c) each character
would have a somewhat different view of what had happened.
The purpose of imagining a complete account of the events-as-
they-happened (the technical term for this, invented by the Russian
formalists, is fabula) is to make us realize that a novel cannot give a
complete account of anything. Any narrative condenses most events
greatly, skips long periods completely, and often provides only one
character’s view of what is happening. What we are given is not the
events-in-themselves, but a discourse about the events. (The word “dis-
course” simply means “something which is put into language.”) But
creating a discourse will involve certain choices about how the events
will be put into language, and which events will be left out. If we want
to describe the novel, we need to talk about how the discourse mod-
ifies the events in presenting them—that is, how it mediates the
events.
The most dramatic way in which the discourse of The Watch that
Ends the Night alters “reality” is that it doesn’t give the events in the
order in which they occurred. The story begins with Jerome’s
return to Montreal after his long absence and his presumed death.
We feel the tension of the situation and the bizarre quality of
Catherine being married simultaneously to two men. Then the
author goes back in time to explain what led up to this impasse.
Much later, the book concludes with what happens after Jerome’s
return. The terms of narratology can help us describe these struc-
tures, so we can understand better how the text works. (The tech-
nical term for a flashback is analepsis; a jump forward in time is
called a prolepsis.) One purpose in having the novel begin in the
middle of the story and not at the beginning is to engage the reader
with an intensely dramatic situation: Jerome has returned from the
dead, so to speak, to find his wife married to another man. The
reader wants to know how this situation came about, and how it will
be resolved.
Presenting the events in an order different from the order in
which they occurred is only one way in which the discourse can mod-
ify the fabula. There are many others, some of which are described in
Gérard Genette’s Narrative Discourse.4 The prolepsis or flash-forward,
although rarer in literature than the analepsis, can be extremely pow-
erful. It is often used in autobiography to stress the importance of an
event, by saying how strong and clear the narrator’s present memory
of it is. Genette gives an example from Proust:
Structuralism (iii): Narratology 163
ch11.qxd 17/03/2007 11:16 AM Page 163
Of late I have been increasingly able to catch, if I listen attentively,
the sound of the sobs which I had the strength to control in my
father’s presence, and which broke out only when I found myself
alone with Mama. Actually, their echo has never ceased: it is only
because life is now growing more and more quiet round about me
that I hear them afresh, like those convent bells which are so effec-
tively drowned out during the day by the noises of the streets that
one would have supposed them to have been stopped for ever,
until they sound out again through the silent evening air.5
Another device that allows the discourse of a novel to affect its fab-
ula is focalization. This occurs when the narration passes through the
mind of a particular person. In Henry James’s The Ambassadors,
Strether provides all the information, and so nothing can be
included in the novel that Strether would not know. Also, the way in
which things are seen will depend on the ideology of the person
through whom the narrative is focalized; for instance, people in dif-
ferent stages of consciousness (see Chapter 9) are likely to structure
stories in different ways.
Speed of action and catalytic material
When approached in another way, the material in a text can be
divided into two categories: hinge events and catalytic material.
Roland Barthes was the first to propose this distinction.6 The hinge
events are those in which there is a turn in the story: they mark a sig-
nificant new stage in the narrative, and, taken together, they form a
structure in which each of them is necessary. If you leave any one out,
the structure doesn’t make sense, or becomes very different. In the
first two parts of Coleridge’s “The Rime of the Ancient Mariner,”
these are the hinge events:
1. The mariner goes to sea as a member of a ship’s crew.
2. He shoots the albatross.
3. The weather improves, and the sailors approve of the shooting.
4. The ship is becalmed; the sailors curse the mariner and hang the
albatross around his neck.
The third event is a hinge event, because, as Coleridge tells us in the
marginal gloss, the sailors make themselves accomplices in the crime
by approving of it, and so they deserve their punishment later on.
164 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch11.qxd 17/03/2007 11:16 AM Page 164
In between the hinge events the author can put as much catalytic
material as he wants, without changing the plot of the story. (It
is called “catalytic material” because, like a negative catalyst or
“inhibitor” in a chemical reaction, it slows down the rate at which
the action occurs.) This catalytic material can consist of other non-
essential, non-hinge actions, such as the sun rising or an iceberg
floating by; or of “information,” i.e., description, or philosophical
reflection.
What is the value of knowing that narratives are made up of hinge
events and catalytic material? This distinction allows us to account for
the difference in feel between a story made up of a lot of hinge
events and relatively little catalytic material (a thriller, for instance, in
which there are continual threats to the life of the hero, and so a lot
of suspense), and a very different kind of story in which there are rela-
tively fewer hinge events, but a lot of description and reflection.
Poems by William Wordsworth (such as “The Thorn”) often have
very little action, and stress instead the quality of the feelings people
experience. Novels by Honoré de Balzac and Thomas Hardy often
have long descriptive passages, which usually set the mood of the
story or tell us something about the characters. A novel by Virginia
Woolf can seem to be composed almost entirely of catalytic material,
which may make it frustrating to a reader looking for action, but satis-
fying to someone willing to read it at a much slower pace. At the
other end of the scale is The Da Vinci Code, which has an enormous
number of hinge events, to keep the reader in suspense, and com-
paratively little catalytic material.
What is most significant in the distinction between hinge events
and catalytic material is the relative presence of each in a particular
text. A text in which hinge events predominate often has a syntag-
matic feel (see Chapter 7): we ask, “What is going to happen next?
How is this going to end?” The events form a long chain, and we want
to reach the conclusion. In a story containing more catalytic mate-
rial, often we ask questions of a paradigmatic nature, such as “What
does this mean?” Often the reader sorts out the structure of the
hinge events on the first reading, and the second provides an oppor-
tunity to pay close attention to the catalytic material. So some stories
can be grasped quite fully on a first reading, while others are worth
reading more than once. In Coleridge’s view, the real test of a story’s
value is the pleasure it provides on a second reading.
“Actants” and plot-grammars
A fourth way to approach narrative structures is to focus on general
(and perhaps universal) patterns in the structure of plots. According
Structuralism (iii): Narratology 165
ch11.qxd 17/03/2007 11:16 AM Page 165
to a system developed by the French structuralist A.J. Greimas, many
narratives contain six roles, which form three pairs:
the subject (the hero), who searches for the object (which may be a per-
son—for example, a loved one—or a state of being);
the helper (who aids the subject in the quest), and the opponent (who
tries to hinder the subject);
the sender (the person or institution that gives the subject a sense
of values and sends the subject in search of the object), and the
receiver (who receives, or obtains, the object looked for by the
subject).7
Greimas calls these entities actants, and he thinks of them as existing
on a “deep” or hidden level in the text; they may appear on the sur-
face level in several actual characters or other elements. So Hamlet is
the subject in Shakespeare’s play; his father is the sender, and Hora-
tio is the helper; but the opponent is split up into several characters,
including Claudius, Polonius, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
When characters are split up into these six categories of actants,
three basic patterns of action emerge:
• desire (the subject’s desire for the object);
• help and hindrance (from the helper and the opponent);
• communication (from the sender to the receiver).
The general structure of a work of literature, analysed in this way,
takes one of two forms. It can be a progression from disorder to
order, as in the case of Henry IV, Part One: King Henry has to put
down the rebellion in the north and enlist the wayward Prince Hal as
a participating member of his entourage. The second form moves
from the existence of a contract, through a breaking of that contract,
to punishment. This form can be seen in Hamlet and Macbeth.
What is the value of being aware of these very abstract patterns in
fiction? The first thing to say is that they are not absolute facts, and
they are not necessarily valuable at all. Their value to us as readers lies
in their usefulness. When they shed light and make us feel we under-
stand something better, then they are valuable. Here are some exam-
ples where they have this power.
One of the strongest and most satisfying feelings in reading litera-
ture is the sense that an engaging story has come to a conclusion, and
that the problems that it has raised have been dealt with in a satisfy-
166 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch11.qxd 17/03/2007 11:16 AM Page 166
ing way. This occurs in The Watch that Ends the Night, when George
Stewart avoids succumbing to a breakdown, and brings his wife home
from the hospital, not with the panic-laden feeling that she may at
any time be taken from him by her illness, but with the confidence
that he is secure enough in himself to go on after her death. We
could say that the ending is satisfying because the subject has finally
attained his object, which has not been professional success or mar-
riage, but the sense of his own security in the world. Attaining this
object makes him feel as though he may be living in harmony with a
divine plan.
If there is some doubt whether the subject attains the object, a nar-
rative may be less satisfying. A case in point is Robert Hellenga’s mov-
ing novel The Fall of a Sparrow. The protagonist, Woody, is a professor
of classics at a small college in the midwestern United States. The
novel begins with the death of his eldest daughter when right-wing
terrorists set off a bomb in the train station in Bologna, Italy. This
ends up destroying his marriage (his wife becomes a nun), and
undermines his devotion to teaching. He is determined to under-
stand why his daughter died—what were the human factors behind
the bombing—instead of accepting it as the will of God, which is his
wife’s method of dealing with her grief. He moves to Italy, and works
with the association of relatives of the eighty-six victims, who are urg-
ing the Italian government to bring the terrorists to trial. In particu-
lar, Woody wants to talk to the young woman who planted the bomb,
to understand why she acted as she did. She is the same age as his
daughter would have been, and, like his daughter, a devoted reader
of The Lord of the Rings.
In the end Woody does manage to talk to her in prison, and he
achieves a degree of closure (although in an unusual way). This
seems to enable him to re-engage with life, but, because he stays in
Italy, the book is quite indefinite about the actual nature and pur-
pose of his life. This ambiguity is increased by another feature of the
story-telling, which is that the final chapter of the novel is narrated
not by the omniscient narrator of most of the rest of the novel, but
by one of Woody’s two surviving daughters. She too is searching for
closure in her process of mourning, and she recognizes that her
father has started a new life in Italy. So the book asserts that Woody
has reached his object (in Greimas’s sense of that word), but it is not
very clear about what that object is. Having this critical term at our
disposal helps us focus on this aspect of the novel, and identify why
the ending is not fully satisfactory.
The categories of actants can be helpful when you map a work of
literature onto them. At the beginning of The Prelude, Wordsworth’s
Structuralism (iii): Narratology 167
ch11.qxd 17/03/2007 11:16 AM Page 167
long autobiographical poem, the poet says he is having difficulty
choosing the subject he wants to write about, and at the end he is
embarrassed by the fact that his subject is his own life. But if we see
the story in Greimas’s terms, it becomes clear that Wordsworth’s
object is to reach a stage in which he considers himself qualified to
write a long, important poem; and an essential part of that process is
his recognition that, for him, the sender—the agent that instructs
him in his true values and sends him on his quest—is Nature itself.
His ultimate object is to achieve a role as a poet-prophet, offering
redemption through nature to a society being transformed by the
Industrial Revolution and the growth of cities. Identifying actants can
help us develop an understanding of what a work of literature means.
* * *
In this chapter I have presented a brief survey of four areas in narra-
tology, which is a field of literary criticism that became important in
the 1960s, as an aspect of structuralism. The new terms I have intro-
duced—narrator, narratee, analepsis, prolepsis, fabula, discourse,
hinge events, catalytic material, and the six actants—all allow us to
talk about features present in narratives. They may be significant, or
not, in any particular narrative, and may or may not help explain its
importance or effect.
One final source of interest of narratology concerns the stories
that we tell rather than those we read. In both John Fowles’s The French
Lieutenant’s Woman and Margaret Laurence’s The Diviners, the authors
suggest that all of us are continually making movies about our lives in
our heads, thinking about the past and the future. When we create
those narratives, to what extent are we constrained by the formal fea-
tures and rules of narrative? To understand our own lives, do we need
to know who is the sender and who the opponent? To tell our stories,
do we need to discover the hinge events in our lives? When we speak
and wish to be understood, we usually follow the rules of grammar—
but this only guarantees the coherence of our sentences. Narratology
can help us understand the larger stories we construct in our lives,
both those that explain the past and those that reach into the future.
The epigraph to this chapter makes a big claim about the power of
stories—that they “take you as close as you can get to the heart of
things.” The Fall of a Sparrow contains a lot of smaller stories, and part
of its interest is that the protagonist often reflects on the nature of
stories and uses them to convey important feelings. But is the big
claim true? It sounds more like a statement of faith (or of ideology)
than of fact. It seems undeniable that some stories give us a strong
168 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch11.qxd 17/03/2007 11:16 AM Page 168
feeling of understanding reality. The interest of narratology is that it
can help us understand better why some stories are so powerful.
Notes
1 Robert Hellenga, The Fall of a Sparrow (Toronto: Viking, 1998) 22.
2 Roland Barthes, “Introduction to the Structural Analysis of Narratives,”
A Barthes Reader, ed. Susan Sontag (New York: Hill and Wang, 1982)
251-96.
3 Hugh MacLennan, The Watch that Ends the Night (Toronto: Macmillan,
[1958] 1975).
4 Gérard Genette, Narrative Discourse, trans. Jane E. Lewin (Ithaca, NY:
Cornell University Press, 1980).
5 Marcel Proust, À la recherche du temps perdu, quoted by Genette, 70.
6 See Barthes, 265 ff.
7 A.J. Greimas, Sémantique structurale (Paris: Larousse, 1966) 155 ff. The
receiver does not seem to be a very distinct category; often the hero is
also the receiver (in a successful quest plot).
Questions to help you check your understanding of this chapter
1 Explain how knowing something about the narrator of a story (for
instance, that he is gay) could affect your interpretation of that story.
2 Imagine a series of events that involve you, such as a car accident. How
does putting those events into words (to tell a story) force you to make
certain choices that will affect how your listener perceives the story?
3 Think of a story that you like, and identify a passage that is clearly cat-
alytic material (and not a hinge event that advances the plot). How does
the catalytic material add something important or necessary to the
story?
Suggestions for further reading
Roland Barthes, “Introduction to the Structural Analysis of Narratives,” A
Barthes Reader, ed. Susan Sontag (New York: Hill and Wang, 1982) 251-96.
This essay was first published in 1966 in Communications 8 (Paris: Seuil),
which contains a number of seminal articles on narratology by A.J.
Greimas, Umberto Eco, Tzvetan Todorov, and Gérard Genette.
—–. S/Z, trans. Richard Miller (New York: Hill and Wang, 1974), first pub-
lished by Seuil in 1970. In this rich and innovative book, Barthes breaks up
a short story by Balzac into units of a sentence or two, and shows how read-
ers make sense of narratives.
Gérard Genette, Narrative Discourse: An Essay in Method, trans. Jane E. Lewin
Structuralism (iii): Narratology 169
ch11.qxd 17/03/2007 11:16 AM Page 169
(Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1980). Originally this was published
as Le discours du récit, in Figures III (Paris: Seuil, 1972). This study is focused
on five “elements” of narrative as they appear in Proust’s À la recherche du
temps perdu: order, duration, frequency, mood, and voice.
Gerald Prince, A Dictionary of Narratology (Lincoln: University of Nebraska
Press, 1987). This provides useful definitions of many of the technical
terms in narratology.
170 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch11.qxd 17/03/2007 11:16 AM Page 170
CHAPTER TWELVE
New Historicism
New historicism is interesting because it takes the lessons of struc-
turalism and deconstruction seriously, and applies them in the
search for a fuller meaning in works of literature. It has attracted a
lot of attention in the last twenty years, and some of the criticism writ-
ten in this mode is particularly brilliant. Many professors subscribe to
its tenets, and a serious student of literature is almost certain to
encounter it. As I explained in Chapter 5, historicism is the belief
that past events can best be understood not in universal terms but in
terms of the particular contexts in which they occurred. New histori-
cism characteristically finds new meanings in literary texts by looking
in detail at some marginal non-literary anecdote or text from the
relevant period (such as an anonymous pamphlet ridiculing the idea
of Purgatory in 1529, which sheds light on Hamlet). What is new
about this process is that the past is imagined in a new and complex
way, derived partly from the thought of Michel Foucault, an influen-
tial French post-structuralist philosopher and historian.
A simplified account of Foucault’s view of the past would begin
with the idea that what counts as knowledge differs from one era to
the next. For example, data about the movement of the Earth simply
did not count as knowledge for the Catholic Church prior to 1600,
because of the firm belief that the Earth was fixed at the centre of
God’s creation. Similarly, what might be taken as a divine revelation
in one era might be considered evidence of psychosis at another
time. Foucault’s conclusion was that what counts as knowledge at a
particular moment in history depends crucially on certain key insti-
tutions in society, such as the church, the university, and the political
system, and on the ideologies that they support and transmit.
Furthermore, Foucault points out that if you look carefully at any
one period in history, such as the era of Shakespeare in England, you
can usually see that there is a struggle for supremacy between the
supporters of different ideologies. The winning party is in a position
to define what “knowledge” or “justice” or “normality” is, and often
they can put those who disagree in jail. Such a struggle went on in
Shakespeare’s time between the Protestants and the Catholics, and,
to some extent, between the nobility and the businessmen of the ris-
ing middle class. In addition there were marginal or suppressed
groups with quite different beliefs about what was important in life—
the Wyccans would be one example. The witches in Macbeth owe
something to this group of marginalized people.
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 171
171
ch12.qxd 17/03/2007 11:19 AM Page 171
A belief of the “old historicism” was that it was possible to define,
quite objectively, a “spirit of the age,” and that the major works of lit-
erature in that age expressed that spirit more or less clearly. The new
historicism assumes, in contrast, that any period in the past will con-
tain a struggle between a number of different ideologies, carried out
mostly in or between the institutions that allocate power, such as (in
Shakespeare’s time) the monarchy, Parliament, and the Church of
England. There will probably be a dominant ideology, and its propo-
nents will almost certainly be trying to maintain and extend their
control of society. But new historicists feel it is very important to look
for other, non-dominant elements of the culture. These may be
“residual” (and dying out slowly), “emergent” (just being devel-
oped), “repressed” (by the authorities), or “marginal” (flourishing
far away from the centres of power).
So when a new historicist looks at a work of literature, he is careful
to watch out for the voices of the non-dominant cultures or ideolo-
gies, and the conflicts that they might cause. Sometimes these are
quite evident. In The Merchant of Venice, there is an obvious conflict
between the members of the Christian bourgeoisie (Antonio, Bas-
sanio, and Portia) and the marginalized Jew, Shylock, whose financial
code of conduct is very different from that of the people to whom he
is lending his money.
Why do these conflicts matter? One reason is that some new his-
toricists believe that the “great art” of the past has often been used to
help the members of the dominant class maintain their hegemony,
partly by presenting the culture or ideology of the rulers as though it
were the only culture. So art can function, in effect, as propaganda,
and can help repress dissident elements in the culture. A work of art
may well go on doing similar work today. By highlighting the social
struggles of the past, which may otherwise have gone unnoticed,
some new historicists feel they can help students recognize and take
account of the conflicts in our own times. This seems to me to be a
worthy object, and we can be grateful to have a more complex and
fuller view of ideological struggles in the past.
A second assumption of new historicism is that we will be able to
see the meaning of a work of art more fully if we see it in relation to
other forms of discourse created at the same time, such as political
speeches, religious pamphlets, and medical treatises. This is an appli-
cation of the structuralist idea that an utterance has its meaning
because it is part of a larger system, and you will lose something if you
lift the utterance out of that system and put it on a separate plane. A
typical procedure in new-historicist criticism is to discuss some other
aspect of culture, and the documents that relate to it, and then show
172 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch12.qxd 17/03/2007 11:19 AM Page 172
how this material illuminates what is happening in a play. In one well-
known article, a pamphlet promoting investment in the colony of
Virginia is used to illuminate the character of Hal in the two parts of
Henry IV.1
The underlying idea here is that society is very complex, and that
to see one of its products clearly you need to see it as part of that orig-
inal complexity. This is a standard historical argument, but it raises
problems when it is applied to literature. One follows from the fact
that we are always lifting things out of their contexts to some degree;
it is impossible to deal fully with the original complexity of the
embedding of a Shakespearean play in its social context. Literature
(by one definition) is distinguished from other verbal records by the
very fact that it still has lively and interesting meanings even when it is
taken out of its context of origin. By tying a play to its context of origin
you in fact make it function less well as literature and more like ordi-
nary discourse. This can substantially reduce its interest.2
A second problem with new historicism has to do with the teach-
ing of literature to undergraduates. Putting a play in its original con-
text demands a lot of knowledge, more than even most professors are
able to acquire. An individual may devote a lot of time to acquiring
this knowledge, and may be able to illuminate a work of art as a
result, in his role as an “expert on the period,” but it is not reason-
able to expect undergraduates to take on this exercise. They may be
impressed by the professor’s learning; they may be inspired to emu-
late it; but they will almost certainly not be able to do this in an
undergraduate course. The heart of this objection, coming as it does
in this book, is that new historicism does not help an undergraduate
group have a good discussion about literature, which usually
depends on the members of the group having an approximately
equal degree of familiarity with the book. New historicism basically
allows an expert to hold forth, and perhaps be challenged by a rival
expert. This may produce interesting achievements by highly trained
people, but it is not a good model for a university class.
A third and final assumption of new historicism rests on the
insights of narratology. New historicists are narratologists in believing
that the past is essentially available to us in narratives that have been
formed by others, and those narratives are not transparent; they do
not simply give access, like a window, to a reality that exists beyond
them. History is based on stories, and is told in the form of stories,
and so it is mediated by narrative. So there can be no simple grasp-
ing of the facts of the past. Two people, or a community of people,
may agree on certain facts about the past; but linking them to form
a narrative will impress on them a structure and an ideology. I agree
New Historicism 173
ch12.qxd 17/03/2007 11:19 AM Page 173
fully with this position, and it leads me to think that new historicists
should look more carefully at the motives for their own narrations. I
will return to this subject to complete this chapter, after giving an
example of new historicism in action, performed by the man who
invented the term.
Stephen Greenblatt and Othello’s self-narration
Stephen Greenblatt is a scholar and interpreter of the Renaissance
who has written several influential books that represent new histori-
cism well. He has said that an openness to recent theoretical discus-
sions, and especially to the work of Michel Foucault, is characteristic
of work in this mode, but he denies that there is any central doctrine:
“My own work has always been done with a sense of just having to go
about and do it, without establishing first exactly what my theoretical
position is.”3 He opens Shakespearean Negotiations with the statement,
“I began with the desire to speak with the dead. This desire is a famil-
iar, if unvoiced, motive in literary studies....”4 This desire leads him to
engage not only with a range of Renaissance literature, but with
many of the texts of deconstruction and post-structuralism. An essay
on Othello entitled “The Improvisation of Power” illustrates well how
he makes use of his wide and unusual kind of expertise.5
The main question Greenblatt addresses is one that has chal-
lenged many critics. How is Iago able to arouse Othello’s jealousy of
Desdemona to such a pitch of certainty that Othello is willing to mur-
der his wife? The argument passes through three main stages. The
first is to show that Othello constructs his identity around the story of
his life as a heroic soldier. He likes telling this story; he uses it to win
Desdemona’s love; and he defends himself to the Venetian senate
with an account of his life when Desdemona’s father objects to their
marriage. So Othello seems a good supporting example for twentieth-
century psychoanalysis: his sense of his own identity depends on his
ability to narrate an arresting life story.
The second stage is for Greenblatt to show that a common way for
one person to achieve power over another is to enter into that other
person’s narrative of identity, to see it and understand it as a fiction,
and to subvert it to achieve his own ends. To illustrate this, he
describes an incident from a text written in 1525 by Peter Martyr, in
which the Spanish in Hispaniola (the island of which Haiti now
forms a part) were searching for slaves to work in their gold mines.
They found a tribe in what are now the Bahamas whose religion told
them they would be transported to a heavenly island after death,
where they would be joyfully reunited with their loved ones. The
174 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch12.qxd 17/03/2007 11:19 AM Page 174
Spanish managed to insert themselves into this narrative, by per-
suading the natives that the Spanish ships had been provided by their
god to take them to this paradise. The natives were profoundly
moved by this prospect, and they joyfully left their homes to board
the Spanish vessels. Upon arrival in Hispaniola the fiction came to an
end, and they were enslaved.
Greenblatt says that Iago is brilliant at precisely this technique of
understanding another’s story well enough to improvise an entry
into it, with the aim of achieving control over it. He can see the
importance of Othello’s account of himself, and he finds a crucial
point of access. To understand this, Greenblatt introduces us to
another set of documents, which deal with whether a married couple
in Shakespeare’s time could enjoy sex with a clear conscience. These
documents suggest that adultery was viewed as one of the most terri-
ble sins (worse, even, than homicide), and that also some theolo-
gians considered adultery to include loving your own spouse too
ardently, or taking too much pleasure in intercourse. The play itself
makes clear that Desdemona and Othello have experienced power-
ful sexual joy in their marriage, and one conclusion (I am leaving out
a lot of the subtlety and the detail of the argument) is that Othello
feels compelled to kill Desdemona because he accepts that her enjoy-
ment of sex is sinful and punishable by death: “he must destroy Des-
demona both for her excessive experience of pleasure and for awak-
ening such sensations in himself.”6 This turns a crucial item in
Othello’s self-narration against himself, and causes him to act on a
religious doctrine that he has subconsciously accepted.
The conclusion, then, is that Othello kills Desdemona not just
because he suspects she has had sexual relations with Cassio, but
essentially because she openly admits her sexual joy with her hus-
band. When Iago’s villainy is revealed, Othello is then driven to kill
himself for much the same reason—for loving not wisely, but too
well.
This argument is best enjoyed with all the details of its original
presentation, but I have summarized it here to give a concrete exam-
ple of how new historicism tilts texts so we see them in a new light—
a light that comes largely from other texts in circulation in the cul-
ture, texts that most of us have not read. This article also shows
clearly two other features of new historicism: its inclination to see
both authors and characters as enjoying very little freedom, impris-
oned, as it were, in their social surroundings; and a tendency to see
authors almost in terms of comparative anthropology, so they seem
very different from us. Many critics have presented an Othello who
suffers from a form of sexual jealousy that is not unknown today; but
New Historicism 175
ch12.qxd 17/03/2007 11:19 AM Page 175
it will be harder for most of us to understand his feelings if he is act-
ing not out of jealousy but because of an obscure sixteenth-century
theological doctrine about sexual pleasure. Greenblatt wanted to
speak to the dead, but in the end the Shakespeare he imagines seems
to be speaking from an alien culture, about beliefs that no longer
matter to us.
The ideology of new historicism
In the new historicists’ approach to texts, we find that works are tied
in a thousand ways to the contexts in which they emerged. A parti-
cular context is usually characterized by competition between the
dominant ideology and its subversive rivals; and freedom seems to
disappear both for characters and for authors. In the epilogue to
Renaissance Self-Fashioning, Greenblatt says that he began his study
wanting to confirm his feeling that a strong individual in the Renais-
sance was free to construct his own identity. But, he says,
as my work progressed I perceived that fashioning oneself and
being fashioned by cultural institutions—family, religion, state—
were inseparably intertwined. In all my texts and documents, there
were, so far as I could tell, no moments of pure, unfettered sub-
jectivity; indeed, the human subject itself began to seem remark-
ably unfree, the ideological product of the relations of power in a
particular society.7
Another critic introduces new historicism in the following, more
abstract, way:
The writing and reading of texts, as well as the processes by which
they are circulated and categorized, analyzed and taught, are now
being construed as historically determined and determining
modes of work. What have often been taken to be self-contained
aesthetic and academic issues are now seen as inextricably linked
to other social discourses, practices, and institutions; and such
overdetermined and unstable linkages are apprehended as consti-
tutive of the ideological field where people and collective struc-
tures are mutually shaped.8
The feeling of this atmosphere may recall our discussion of Vico in
Chapter 9. This is stage 2 thinking: metonymical, horizontal, and
deterministic. The individual is shaped by the forces that impinge
upon him or her; there is little freedom and no chance of escape.
176 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch12.qxd 17/03/2007 11:19 AM Page 176
This is the scholarly equivalent of the constraining social world that
Balzac describes in La comédie humaine. In it people are defined by the
forces and the discourses that surround them.
Perhaps the clearest indicator of this ideology is the belief that
nothing is transcendent. At the beginning of Shakespearean Negotiations,
Greenblatt establishes seven basic assumptions on which his work is
based. Among them are the following:
• There can be no appeals to genius as the sole origin of the ener-
gies of great art.
• There can be no transcendent or timeless or unchanging repre-
sentation.
• There can be no autonomous artifacts.9
Here Greenblatt is reacting to his upbringing in the New Criticism,
with its emphasis on genius, timeless truths, and autonomous works
of art, and what he says sounds reasonable: works of art do not
appear from nowhere, or affect the world like autonomous beings.
But in another sense he is, I believe, wrong. The root meaning of
“transcendent” is “something which has climbed above the rest” or
“something which is outstanding.” Certainly there are some texts, and
some moments in our lives, which are transcendent in this sense:
they are outstanding. Why are they outstanding? Because they feel that
way, and we allow them to take on a special existence. There seems clear
evidence that our lives can be enriched by allowing certain moments,
and certain texts, to have this unusual status.
In our lives, transcendent moments are often those when we make
important choices or have unusual insights that alter our lives. We
feel free or morally engaged or wise or privileged. I see no value in
erasing such moments, or denying that they exist. And in my experi-
ence of literature there are transcendent texts—texts that stand out.
When a group of people largely agree that a certain text is transcen-
dent, it becomes part of that group’s canon. This does not mean that
it emerges from nowhere, or that it has no relation to other texts of
the period. But these factors seem to matter less, often because the
text in question seems alive in the present and relevant to the future.
An analogy may make my argument clearer. Imagine we come
across a mature maple tree in a forest near where we are building a
house to live in. The new historicist is like a botanist-ecologist who
has been watching the tree develop over a forty-year span. He can tell
us (because he knows a lot about this ecological system, as well as
about trees) why the tree is the shape and height it is; he can explain
how it grew slowly at first because it was in the shadow of other trees,
New Historicism 177
ch12.qxd 17/03/2007 11:19 AM Page 177
but when they were blown down it suddenly had much better access
to the sun. He can even explain how the weather patterns over the
years will have affected the tree’s inner structure.
We listen with interest and respect. But we want to harvest the tree
and take it to the local sawmill so that we can use the wood for our
flooring material. We are glad to know that it is a healthy maple; it
will make beautiful, durable floors, with attractive patterns in the
grain. But there is a limit to the amount we want to know, or can
absorb, about the tree’s history; we may have mixed feelings about
cutting down the tree, but we want to move ahead with our building
project, not explore the details of the life of the tree.
It is possible to use literature in a similar way. For example, I am
sure that King Lear has helped many thousands of people understand
their relations with an aging parent and to come to terms with that
situation.10 I am sure that for some of these people certain parts of
the play seem to contain a transcendent wisdom, and that they are
better off because they allow the play to have this role in their lives.
A detailed new historical analysis would not serve the same function
at that moment in these people’s lives. So in a sense the play does con-
tain a transcendent element, and Greenblatt would be wrong to deny
the experience of these people.
There is evidence that Greenblatt has changed his mind since he
wrote Shakespearean Negotiations. His 2001 book Hamlet in Purgatory
explores Hamlet’s relation to his father’s ghost, who returns to the
earth from Purgatory. The Anglican Church had officially declared
that there was no such thing as Purgatory fifty years before Hamlet was
written, so what was Shakespeare doing when he gave new life to this
concept? Greenblatt’s thesis is that Shakespeare was responding to
the common need of a person recently bereaved to connect in some
way with the dead person. The Anglican Church had eliminated the
channel of connection with the dead which followed from a belief in
Purgatory—that of praying for the soul of a dead person in order to
decrease the amount of time he or she had to spend in Purgatory,
before being admitted to heavenly bliss. But the human need to con-
nect with the deceased continued, and Shakespeare may have felt it
particularly strongly in 1601, when his own father died, and when he
wrote Hamlet. This need, Greenblatt suggests, may be almost univer-
sal. He also says that his writing of Hamlet in Purgatory was motivated
by the death of his own father, and his search for some ritual to help
him deal with his feelings of loss.
It is worth adding (in a minor digression before concluding) that
many new historicists look with some scepticism on Shakespeare’s
position at the top of the canon. As one critic puts it, “for them all
178 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch12.qxd 17/03/2007 11:19 AM Page 178
value is contingent, and the special value traditionally attributed to
Shakespeare’s works arises from persistent brainwashing adminis-
tered by entrenched and self-serving institutions.”11 But Greenblatt,
in contrast, admits his immense admiration for Shakespeare:
My goal was not to understand the theology behind the ghost; still
less, to determine whether it was “Catholic” or “Protestant.” My
only goal was to immerse myself in the tragedy’s magical intensity.
It seems a bit absurd to bear witness to the intensity of Hamlet; but
my profession has become so oddly diffident and even phobic
about literary power, so suspicious and tense, that it risks losing
sight of—or at least failing to articulate—the whole reason anyone
bothers with the enterprise in the first place. The ghost in Hamlet
is like none other—not only in Shakespeare but in any literary or
historical text that I have ever read. It does not have many lines ...
but it is amazingly disturbing and vivid. I wanted to let the feeling
of this vividness wash over me, and I wanted to understand how it
was achieved.12
Here Greenblatt makes clear what drives his whole project: the desire
to understand his feelings about Shakespeare in the present. It is the
transcendence, not the historical detail, that matters.
To conclude: we can be grateful to the new historicists for pointing
out the complexity of the social networks in which works of literature
have their origins, and for their skill in recovering voices in texts that
have been obscured or suppressed. We can acknowledge that their
investigations may alert us to ways in which we ourselves are not free,
living our lives as we do in languages and societies not of our own
making. But we do not need to accept their ideology, or allow it to
diminish our freedom or our moral sense when we make choices of
our own. Above all we should not allow new historicism to under-
mine the exaltation and feeling of transcendence that some works of
art give us. We need to be aware of the consequences of those feel-
ings. They may annoy or even oppress some people. But there is no
reason to deny they exist, or to suppose that they are ill-founded.
They are one of the best things that literature has to offer.
Notes
1 Stephen Greenblatt, “Invisible Bullets,” in Shakespearean Negotiations: The
Circulation of Social Energy in Renaissance England (Berkeley and Los
Angeles: University of California Press, 1988) 21-65.
2 John M. Ellis makes this point with great clarity and force in The Theory
New Historicism 179
ch12.qxd 17/03/2007 11:19 AM Page 179
of Literary Criticism: A Logical Analysis (Berkeley and Los Angeles: Uni-
versity of California Press, 1974).
3 Stephen Greenblatt, “Towards a Poetics of Culture,” in H. Aram Veeser,
ed. The New Historicism (New York: Routledge, 1989) 1.
4 Greenblatt, Shakespearean Negotiations, 1.
5 In Stephen Greenblatt, Renaissance Self-Fashioning: From More to Shake-
speare (Chicago and London: University of Chicago Press, 1980) 222-54.
6 Greenblatt, Renaissance Self-Fashioning, 250.
7 Greenblatt, Renaissance Self-Fashioning, 256.
8 Louis Montrose, “New Historicisms,” in Redrawing the Boundaries: The
Transformation of English and American Literary Studies, ed. Stephen
Greenblatt and Giles Gunn (New York: Modern Language Association,
1992) 392.
9 Greenblatt, Shakespearean Negotiations, 12.
10 A fictional example of someone using King Lear in this way is Scar
Tissue, by Michael Ignatieff (Toronto: Viking, 1993). When his mother
is afflicted with Alzheimer’s disease, the protagonist, a professor of phi-
losophy, explores the meaning of her behaviour, partly by re-reading
and giving lectures on King Lear.
11 Frank Kermode, “The High Cost of New History,” New York Review of
Books, 25 June 1992.
12 Greenblatt, Hamlet in Purgatory (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University
Press, 2001) 4.
Questions to help you check your understanding of this chapter
1 Can you explain the difference between “old historicism” and its view of
knowledge as objective and absolute, and new historicism’s view that
what counts as knowledge depends on the particular institutions that
hold power, such as the monarchy and the church?
2 Can you explain why the ideology and assumptions of new historicism
are more appropriate for experts than for undergraduates?
3 Explain why new historicists think it is important to recognize the con-
flict for power between different groups in society, both in the present
and in the past, when great works of literature were written.
Suggestions for further reading
See the books listed in the notes above, and particularly those by Stephen
Greenblatt. Many critics doing new historicism seem very self-effacing, and
some retreat into a style that is extremely abstract and turgid (using
phrases such as “negotiated transactions between discursive formations”
and “the refiguration of the sociocultural field”). Greenblatt does this
180 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch12.qxd 17/03/2007 11:19 AM Page 180
rarely, and he has a refreshing directness and concern with his own motiva-
tions and desires as a reader and—surprising as this may seem for a new
historicist—a person making choices in the world. He obviously enjoys
telling anecdotes about himself, and he does it well. See, for instance, the
three-page epilogue to Renaissance Self-Fashioning, which captures neatly a
central irony of new historicism. Chapter 1 of Shakespearean Negotiations
(“The Circulation of Social Energy”) depicts the ideology and program of
new historicism in a lively way. He is modest about the importance of new
historicism, and thinks that literary pedagogy will remain focused primarily
on goals that the new critics would have agreed with: “sustained, scrupu-
lous attention to the formal and linguistic design of literary works.” But at
other moments he seems wildly ambitious: “We need to analyze the collec-
tive dynamic circulation of pleasures, anxieties, and interests [in Shake-
speare’s England].”
Jonathan Dollimore and Alan Sinfield, Political Shakespeare: Essays in Cultural
Materialism, 2nd ed. (Manchester: Manchester University Press, 1994).
Cultural materialism, which developed in Britain under the influence of
Raymond Williams and Marxism, is similar to new historicism in many
ways. Some of these are outlined in the introduction by Jonathan Dol-
limore (“Shakespeare, Cultural Materialism, and the New Historicism”).
Two differences, traceable to the Marxist roots of cultural materialism,
are (i) a greater concern with how Shakespeare is used in the present—
how his works are situated in our own cultural field, and (ii) a clear polit-
ical commitment:
Cultural materialism does not, like much established literary criticism,
attempt to mystify its perspective as the natural, obvious, or right inter-
pretation of an allegedly given textual fact. On the contrary, it registers
its commitment to the transformation of a social order which exploits
people on the grounds of race, gender, and class. (viii)
This volume contains a concluding afterword by Raymond Williams.
H. Aram Veeser, ed., The New Historicism (New York: Routledge, 1989) is an
anthology that represents the variety of new historicism well. It concludes
with an assessment of the volume, and of new historicism, by Stanley
Fish, who feels that it is not really “new” at all.
New Historicism 181
ch12.qxd 17/03/2007 11:19 AM Page 181
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
Reader-Response Criticism
Il dépend de celui qui passe
que je sois tombe ou trésor
que je parle ou me taise
ceci ne tient qu’à toi
ami n’entre pas sans désir
—Paul Valéry 1
Interest in reader-response criticism has increased greatly in the past
twenty years, partly as a result of the attempt to connect literary the-
ory to what actually occurs in the classroom. The central idea behind
reader-response criticism is that a work of literature does not exist as
“words on the page.” It has no objective existence: it exists only when
it has entered the mind of a particular reader. When it enters your
mind, it is accommodated to what is already in your mind—for exam-
ple, to the particular meanings that individual words have for you.
We all have slightly different associations with the word “river,” for
instance, and when we encounter this word in a poem, those associa-
tions are activated. On a larger scale, there are different methods of
interpretation, and the way in which a work is understood by a par-
ticular person will depend on what method is being used (even if the
person is not aware of there being different methods). Finally, our
own personal histories influence how we respond to different works
of literature and which themes have the most meaning for us.
Reader-response critics argue that it is important to take all of this
into account; they say that any pretense that literary criticism can be
“objective” is a grave distortion of the realities of how literature is
experienced.
When reader-response critics stress the experience of the subjec-
tive individual, a danger seems to loom: if each of us pays attention
only to individual experience, the communal basis for the discipline
will disappear and literature classes will have nothing to hold them
together. One of the main challenges that reader-response critics
have to face is to provide a satisfactory solution to this problem. The
answer generally takes one of two forms. The first is that although we
all read differently, we can classify reading procedures into a small
number of types, and then talk in general terms about these types.
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 182
182
ch13.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 182
The second answer is that we are not free to simply read in any way
we want and be part of a particular community of readers. If we want
to participate in a discussion of a book in a group or on a web site,
our contribution will in effect only be received by others if we read
according to the group’s general guidelines. (When we read only for
our own pleasure, of course, we can do anything we want, including
skipping the parts we find boring and reading the end first to find
out what happens.)
Roland Barthes and the four pleasures of reading
As an introduction to different types of reading, I would like to men-
tion briefly four kinds of reading that Roland Barthes outlines in The
Pleasure of the Text.2 He bases them on Freudian psychoanalysis, and
gives them names that some people will find unattractive, but the dif-
ferences between them are striking, and to some extent they can be
aligned with the first three of Vico’s four stages.
In the first kind of reading, the reader experiences the world
described in the text as though it were reality, in a kind of hallucina-
tion, often through identifying with a particular character. Adolescents
who are enthusiastic readers often read in this mode; they lose all
sense of the world around them and disappear into the story. To this
kind of reader, literary criticism is an impertinence, and to reach the
end of the book is a small disaster, because it leaves the reader bereft
of an imaginative world. This kind of reading seems to correspond to
Vico’s stage 1, in which the individual is lost in a numinous world.
The second kind of reading demands a good deal of intellectual
activity, and it usually involves certain rituals that are repeated as you
read. One of these rituals might be constantly searching for the theme
of what you read. Both analysis and synthesis are needed for this activ-
ity, and it can be very demanding. This kind of reading is often highly
valued in university courses, because it can lead to a stage 3 under-
standing of the work of literature as a whole. Other interpretive ritu-
als that would fit in this category are constantly looking for the
significance of symbols in the work of literature, and working out
allegorical meanings. The goal of both of these processes is to achieve
a global understanding of the work in question.
The third kind of reading mentioned by Barthes is appropriate to
detective stories: here the satisfaction lies in seeing how all the details
and clues fit together to form the main structure of the story. The
general shape of this structure is known in advance, because there
are generic rules about detective fiction that are clearly understood
by both writer and reader.
Reader-Response Criticism 183
ch13.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 183
The fourth kind of reading pleasure is the opposite of the second
and the third, in that the focus is not on the text as a whole, but
rather on fragments of the text: sentences or even phrases. Barthes
calls this the fetishistic manner of reading, because a few small parts
of the text are chosen as somehow containing the essence of the
work or the author’s world view. This is similar to what happens in
some indigenous African religions. The forces of nature are thought
to be controlled by gods who reside in “fetish objects,” such as the
claw of an animal. People who get this kind of pleasure in reading
tend to underline or copy out certain sentences or formulas and
sometimes memorize them, so that they can remember them or
quote them at an appropriate moment.
A fifth kind of reading (not mentioned by Barthes) involves the
pleasure found in the information the book contains about the
author’s life or his times. This pleasure seems to be available prima-
rily to people who already know a good deal about a particular
period, and so it is common among professors. Undergraduate stu-
dents do not usually have the same enthusiasm for it, because they
are often beginning from scratch and don’t have the structure in
their minds to accommodate the knowledge. To many students this
kind of knowledge seems like a collection of facts that are hard to
remember.
These five kinds of pleasure—taking the text as reality, looking for
themes, savouring complex structures, collecting fragments, and
assembling historical information—could all be experienced by a sin-
gle person, although it is unlikely that anyone would enjoy all five
equally. It may, however, be possible to learn to enjoy literature more,
by cultivating your ability to read in ways that are not habitual for
you.
The individual approach to reader-response criticism:
Norman Holland
I will now examine three different views of reader-response criticism,
each of which has a different focus. The first, and most important for
the individual student, deals with a single person who is reading, and
how that person makes sense of a text by processing the material in
that text in his or her own psyche. (How this happens will become
clear in the following paragraphs.) The second view of reader-
response criticism focuses on what happens in the classroom, and the
third on the world of literary criticism as a whole. Reader-response
criticism is not one thing or one defined method, but the different
kinds are united by insisting that we deal with the enormous variety
184 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch13.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 184
in ways texts are transformed when they enter the consciousness of a
particular person.
Norman Holland focuses on the individual. His basic thesis is that
each person has a central structure to his or her personality (which
he calls an “identity theme”), and that when we read a book we essen-
tially try to reproduce the main elements of that structure. If we
can’t, we get frustrated and probably don’t like the story. A person’s
identity theme establishes the crucial issues in his or her life: the atti-
tude toward parents, toward authorities, toward friends and lovers,
and what expectations the individual characteristically harbours
about the greater world in which he or she moves. The identity
theme expresses what a person wants in life, and what he or she
fears—and it indicates what defences will be established against those
things that seem dangerous.
An example may make clearer what Holland means by the term
“identity theme.” He describes the poet Robert Frost as a man who
lived in permanent fear of large, dangerous, and chaotic elements in
the world (and in himself), but who felt that he could use small
things, such as words, as magical symbols that could help him control
his life. Holland describes Frost’s identity theme in this way:
To be in touch with, to create, and to restrain huge unknown
forces of sex and aggression by smaller symbols: words or familiar
objects. Or, more briefly, to manage great, unmanageable
unknowns by means of smaller knowns.3
Using this formulation to explain and unify bizarre elements in
Frost’s life, Holland uses as support some of the poet’s well-known
sayings, such as “every poem is an epitome of the great predicament;
a figure of the will braving alien entanglements,” and “I started call-
ing myself a Synecdochist when others called themselves Imagists or
Vorticists. Always, always, a larger significance. A little thing touches
a larger thing.”
For most people, the idea of an “identity theme” is probably hard
to grasp, because it condenses the huge variety of events and
responses in a person’s life in the form of a sentence or two.4 This
is likely to seem insulting and reductive, especially if someone else
applies it to us. To discover and formulate our own identity theme
might take a lot of introspection, and a high degree of self-
knowledge. In spite of this, working out your identity theme poses
a fascinating question: who am I, really? The first steps in answering
this question are probably to decide what you most want in your
life, and what you most fear.
Reader-Response Criticism 185
ch13.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 185
Holland sees three basic stages in the process of reading a narra-
tive. First of all, the work of art has to get past your network of
defences, which are there to protect you from things that you fear,
either consciously or unconsciously. If the work doesn’t make it
through these defences, you stop reading in any meaningful sense.
As an example of defences coming into play, Holland cites the case
of a rigid, obsessional man who went to see a film about a sea captain
who had to endure mutiny on his ship, and the loss of his authority.
This viewer could not bear to see these events take place, and he left
the theatre halfway through the film. Something similar can occur
when we read, and often the response we are aware of is boredom.
Once the work of art has come through the gates of your person-
ality, so to speak—once it has been allowed admittance, and perhaps
been welcomed, your mind takes its contents and starts building fan-
tasies. The materials for these fantasies are supplied by the story, but
the kind of fantasy you like to build will depend on your own mind. Your
fantasies may or may not reflect the “main theme” of the narrative,
but they will certainly reflect your identity theme.
I have put the phrase “will depend on your own mind” in italics,
because Holland is advancing a very bold hypothesis here, and we
should not take it lightly, or accept it too easily. He is saying that on
a first reading of a book that is important to us, we form the main
structures so they correspond with our deepest wishes and fears. We
create fantasies of achieving our most desired goals (winning the love
and respect of a beautiful person, for example, and protecting our-
selves from enemies who might terrorize us). This is a radical pro-
posal about what happens when we read.
Because he is a Freudian, Holland sees these fantasies as falling
into three groups. (1) The first has to do with the feeling of being
unified with the greater world around you, and losing yourself in it:
the oceanic feeling, as Freud put it. These fantasies are related to the
earliest bond that the infant feels with her mother, in which the
infant is not even aware of the distinction between herself and the
rest of the world. (2) The next group has to do with the feelings we
have about the things we make or create: we may feel proud and pos-
sessive about them; we may want other people to admire them; we
may work out ways of preventing others (especially authorities such
as parents and teachers) from forcing them out of us. (3) The final
group of fantasies involves the themes of competing with other peo-
ple for success and of accepting limits to our sexual and social ambi-
tions.
As an example of how Holland’s categories might work, I will sug-
gest three fantasies a student might have about writing an honours
186 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch13.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 186
thesis on Boswell’s Life of Johnson. A fantasy of the first type might
focus on Johnson as someone who has a deep and valid understand-
ing of the nature of life. The student might feel that his main goal is
to extract from the Life of Johnson its essential teachings and to iden-
tify with them as closely as possible. He might believe that this would
allow him to repose securely in these truths and live in harmony with
the world. A fantasy of the second type might be that the student’s
supervisor is trying to make him organize his thesis in a way that the
student feels is not right for him. So a lot of effort might go into
resisting the supervisor and holding onto the thesis until it is exactly
what the student wants it to be. The third type of fantasy is that the
student might think of his thesis primarily in terms of how it might
advance his career, by putting him ahead of his peers and getting him
into graduate school. Holland’s point is that in a particular individ-
ual one of these three fantasies might be more likely to occur than
the others. This would be a significant reflection of the student’s per-
sonality, and would in turn influence how the student reads.
These three categories—based on Freud’s conception of human
sexual development—may be off-putting to many people, and they
may seem inadequate or simply wrong. It could be that another clas-
sification of fantasies would be more appropriate for a particular
reader. The key element in this part of the theory, however, is
whether or not there is an important element of fantasizing in your
response to literature that deeply involves you.
The first two stages of the reading process (according to Holland)
include the work of getting past the defences and of fantasy-building.
The third stage is the drive toward public meaning. This is more
social, and rule-bound, than the second stage. You take your fantasies
about the story, and you take the psychological processes that are nat-
ural to you, and you put them together in a way that helps you dis-
cover the meaning or the theme of the story. You might do this in
response to a teacher’s demand for an essay on the story. You might
try to work out a theme to help you talk with someone else about the
story. If unity is an important characteristic of the things you like,
then you will want your expression of the theme to be well unified
and to cover the story well. Holland tests his theory by looking at how
five students find meaning in a short story by William Faulkner. He
describes their identity themes (which he has worked out by using a
number of psychological tests) and shows how each of them finds a
reflection of his or her own identity theme in the story.
What is the point of this for students of literature? I will deal with
some limitations of the theory first, before turning to the benefits. It
seems to be applicable only in tutorial situations, where a professor
Reader-Response Criticism 187
ch13.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 187
can investigate in detail the response of a particular student to a par-
ticular work. It would appear very solipsistic, as though each reader
created the meaning of the work on his or her own. The whole idea
of a person having an “identity theme” may seem much too restrictive
(not to say Freudian) for many people. Holland compares finding the
identity theme of a person to finding the theme of a novel, and in
both cases there is a reduction of variety to unity. This can certainly be
overdone, and we need to be careful that the search for themes (in
books and in people) does not become oppressive and reductive.
But there are three main points of general interest. The first is that
Holland’s theory allows us to look carefully at why we respond very
powerfully to certain books. Is it because they are “great”? Or is it
because they reflect our identity themes? Or some combination of
the two? Are “great books” those that touch on elements of identity
themes that are very widely shared? A second point is that many stu-
dents of literature are interested in self-knowledge, and this theory
provides one way of obtaining it. A third point is that Holland’s the-
ory allows us to understand other readers better. Once we become
familiar with some of the variety of identity themes, we realize that an
interpretation of a novel that seems inappropriate to us may be per-
fectly plausible for someone with a different identity theme.
Norman Holland did not develop this theory until he was well into
middle age; he had also done psychoanalysis with a Freudian analyst.
It may be that his approach is simply not appropriate for someone in
the first half of life. Self-knowledge is notoriously difficult to attain,
even for people well advanced in their lives, and his theory depends
on a person being willing to envisage the possibility of having an iden-
tity theme. If this seems outrageous to you, Holland’s theory is
unlikely to be useful for you. If, on the other hand, you find Hol-
land’s ideas attractive, they may lead you to a deeper understanding
of how literature comes alive in our minds, and they may help you
achieve a new kind of self-knowledge.
Reader-response criticism and the creation of knowledge in the
classroom: David Bleich
One of the main themes of David Bleich’s work is that knowledge in
the humanities has its roots in subjective experience, and that this is
especially so in the study of literature. Bleich believes that it is simply
not possible to give anyone objective knowledge of a work of litera-
ture; it has to be experienced subjectively, and then that experience
has to be discussed in a group to become “knowledge.” In Subjective
Criticism, Bleich says, “To know anything at all is to have assigned a
188 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch13.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 188
part of one’s self to a group of others who claim to know the same
thing.”5 What counts as knowledge depends on how individuals form
groups and how these groups fit in with other groups working on the
same area of knowledge. It is a consequence of this that the class-
room is a place in which knowledge is created, because the group may
be able to form a consensus about what a work of literature means.
This knowledge is limited to the existence of the group, and if it is
submitted to a larger group (through the publication of an essay
reporting the conclusions of the group, for instance), the knowledge
may not produce a consensus there. But the main point is that the
process that occurs in this larger group (made up of professors of lit-
erature, let us say) is very similar to the process in the small group.
Knowledge is created by groups; and the groups need to take respon-
sibility for what counts as knowledge. Bleich puts this eloquently:
Subjective criticism is a way of reaching knowledge of language
and literature, of bearing responsibility for it, and of assembling
collective interests in the pursuit of such knowledge. In practice
(as opposed to in imagination) none of these purposes are sepa-
rable from one another. Once you and I enter either a conversa-
tion or a classroom, we are proposing knowledge, bearing respon-
sibility, and defining a community of common interests. There is
no way to reduce the scope of these simple activities; when taken
seriously, they become difficult and complex. The only recourse is
to increase awareness of them and to establish a vocabulary of sub-
jective initiatives that can command our thoughts and regulate our
relationships. Beyond these thoughts and relationships there is no
way to authorize knowledge.6
So Bleich believes that through a challenging process of discussion,
in which groups may need to invent a new vocabulary, groups actu-
ally create knowledge. This leads directly into the area known as the
sociology of knowledge. We want to know how interrelated groups
work together to produce knowledge, and how the classroom fits into
that network.
Bleich describes a number of possible classroom activities. He
points out that while students are often good at expressing ideas,
they tend to have difficulty expressing feelings, and so the first item
on his agenda is to get them to talk about their feelings. Usually a
complex set of feelings lies behind ideas and thoughts, and usually
these feelings are not discussed. They are assumed to be “subjective,”
while the ideas are thought to be “objective.” Bleich will write an
inflammatory statement, such as “Women are smarter than men,” on
Reader-Response Criticism 189
ch13.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 189
the board, simply to cause a feeling-reaction in students, which can
then be discussed. This allows the students to start becoming com-
fortable discussing their feelings in the classroom.
Another class activity recommended by Bleich is based on his
belief that readers recreate works of literature in their own minds
according to the dominant needs of their personalities at the
moment. A particular reading of a text is an expression of the
reader’s own concerns and preoccupations. He encourages students
to ask themselves why they produced a particular reading of a work—
to see what they added in their imaginations and what they sup-
pressed, and why. When powerful feelings are aroused by a book,
usually there are other situations in the student’s life that have pro-
duced similar feelings—often involving an important personal rela-
tionship. Exploring these issues can lead to valuable self-knowledge.
An obvious objection to this method is that the exploration of one
student’s feelings and associations can be fascinating to the student, but
boring for the rest of the class. This is especially likely to happen when
other students have either not read the text or not responded to it very
strongly. If this is the case, then the story does not exist for them in a real
sense, and they will not be able to take part in the group’s discussion.
At a later stage of Bleich’s work with a class, he will ask the students
to develop a community consensus about some significant issue. For
instance, when studying Thackeray’s Vanity Fair, Bleich asked his stu-
dents first to write down their emotional responses to the novel and
then to develop an idea of what is Victorian about it. The collective
definition of the term “Victorian” that results from such a process
can turn out to have less to do with the facts of social history in the
nineteenth century, than with the main concerns of the people in the
group. One group of students wrote a good deal about the experi-
ence of sexuality and how it is repressed in the novel. As many histo-
rians have said, what we see as significant in the past often has a lot
to do with what is important for us in the present.
Bleich points out that in any class there will be individuals who are
simply unable or unwilling to give a full and detailed report on their
own experiences. He argues that these people should not be penalized
for their apparent lack of cooperation, and that there are undoubtedly
good reasons for it in their own past history. Bleich says that many stu-
dents who are not good at expressing their feelings will have a talent
for more traditional literary criticism, in the objective mold, and that
they should be allowed to work in that way if they want to.
An important question for any student to answer when she enters
a class is, “How much do I want to be involved in what is going on
here? Do I want to bring my subjective experiences and make them
190 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch13.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 190
public in this forum? Do I want to negotiate about them, in the hope
of seeing them take on the added authority of communal assent, and
become knowledge?” Perhaps many students just want to watch. Per-
haps some mainly want to establish a relationship with an authority—
either the teacher or the authors on the reading list. Some students
seem to want to engage in a kind of “learning ritual” in which per-
sonal feelings are not significant at all. It is unlikely that one class
could meet all of these needs at once.
Bleich says that the most difficult task in the practice of subjective
criticism is for a group to define itself as an interpretive community.
Success in this area involves aligning the activities of the group with
the motives of the participants for being members of the group. To
some extent this means getting the members to speak roughly the
same language. Bleich points out that adopting another person’s lan-
guage is one way of entering into a new kind of community with that
person. Just as students are expected to articulate why they are
involved with the class, Bleich feels that teachers should be willing to
examine and make public to the class why they are concerned about
literature. As with Jesuits and psychoanalysts, who are required to
examine their motivations before they are allowed to practise in the
world, teachers of literature (or at least their classes) might benefit
from a similar requirement.
The method and ideology of subjective criticism are based on the
idea that the study of literature is a powerful avenue to self-knowl-
edge. Bleich thinks that the desire to know oneself is the main moti-
vation for students in literature programs. Subjective knowledge
becomes “public knowledge” when agreements are reached in com-
munities through negotiation, and for most of us the first and most impor-
tant of these communities is the classroom. This explains why Bleich is so
concerned with what happens in the classroom, in contrast to most
scholars, for whom the location of knowledge is much more objec-
tive—perhaps for them it resides primarily on the shelves of a library.
The excitement of what Bleich is doing comes from the fact that he
is showing us how to reappropriate knowledge and to make every
interested person an active participant in the creation of knowledge.
Certainly he introduces difficulties that providers of objective knowl-
edge can avoid, but these difficulties are necessary if we want to link
knowledge with subjectivity.
Objectivity and the community: Stanley Fish
Norman Holland deals with reading as an individual activity; David
Bleich is concerned with what happens in the classroom. The ques-
Reader-Response Criticism 191
ch13.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 191
tions explored by Stanley Fish in Is There a Text in This Class? relate to
the functioning of the institution of literature as a whole.7 There
seems to be a fundamental conflict, Fish says, between the objectivists
in literary studies, who think there is one correct meaning to a liter-
ary text, and the subjectivists, who think that meaning is entirely
dependent on the idiosyncrasies of the individual. To put the ques-
tion another way, who controls what? Does the text dominate readers
and impose its meaning on them, or do readers dominate the text
and impose their meanings on it?
Fish’s answer is an interesting and useful one. He says that there is
a basic error in thinking of reading as a battle between text and
reader for power, because they are not two independent entities. The
texts that are widely read in universities are “chosen” by the commu-
nity of reviewers, scholars, professors, and students. They would not
be on the bookshelves at all unless they were perceived as having
broad support within the community. Also, students have been
taught to read by members of a similar community. So there is prob-
ably a certain harmony between readers and the texts they are likely
to read in a university course.
In theory, when we sit down to read a book, there is nothing to
prevent us from reading it in any way we please: forwards, backwards,
in fragments, or skipping the boring parts. But for your reading to
make sense to others, or to be significant within the literary commu-
nity, you have to either work by the rules currently in force, or per-
suade a lot of people to change over to new ways of reading. So there
are severe restraints imposed on your freedom, but they come nei-
ther from the text, nor from yourself, but from the literary commu-
nity of which you want to be a part.
We could rephrase these observations using Thomas Kuhn’s idea
of how paradigms unite communities (see Chapter 4 where this is
explained): to participate in a community, you have to use its para-
digm, and the important texts in the community will be ones that fit
in (to some extent) with that paradigm. The paradigm holds the
community together and provides the standard of “objectivity”—
which is not absolute objectivity, but objectivity defined by, and rela-
tive to, the paradigm in force in the community.
An important element in this argument is the idea that symbolic
objects cannot be perceived on their own, objectively. They are always per-
ceived within a paradigm or an institutional framework that gives
them meaning. To illustrate this, Fish uses the example of a student
raising his hand and shaking it vigorously during a discussion in a uni-
versity classroom. The members of the class will see this as an urgent
request to add a point to the discussion. But that is not the “objective”
192 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch13.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 192
meaning of the gesture; in other contexts the same gesture might
mean something entirely different. In a primary school, for instance,
it would be a sign that the pupil wanted to go to the bathroom.
The fact that poems and gestures do not have objective meanings
does not mean that they do not have shared meanings for certain cul-
tural groups. As long as university classes continue to exist in their
present format, the raised hand will have a clear, accepted meaning.
It is the survival of cultural institutions such as universities, and
schools of literary criticism, that allows meanings to be stable, and
that provides definitions for what will be acceptable interpretations.
We are not able to think “anything we like”—we are not radically free
in this sense—because we are encouraged to think things that our
cultural institutions find acceptable. This does not mean that we can-
not have new ideas. This sometimes does happen. But these ideas do
not become socially significant until the community or the institu-
tion is persuaded to accept them. People who insist on pursuing their
own ideas, and who do not obtain community validation for them,
will be isolating themselves culturally. They will in effect cease to be
members of the community in which they used to participate.
Why does this matter? It matters because it shows the impor-
tance of traditions (and the communities that sustain them) in the
study of literature. Students find that different professors empha-
size very different aspects of literary study. Professors find exactly
the same problem at conferences: there are different traditions or
methods operating side by side. So what looks from the outside
like an integrated field of English studies is in fact fragmented.
This poses two problems for each of us: Which tradition speaks
most forcefully to me, and demands my allegiance? And how can I
relate my work in that paradigm to the other traditions with which
I come into contact?
Reader-response criticism is unusual among the paradigms for lit-
erary study because it leaves much more room than most traditions
for the development of groups on their own. Some of the standard
practices are set out in advance, such as the need for members to
report on their responses honestly, and be willing to listen to others.
But what will turn out to be acceptable to the group as a whole can-
not be determined in advance. That makes the whole enterprise of
reader-response criticism challenging and exciting.
Notes
1 “The person who passes here determines whether I am a tomb or a
treasure, whether I speak or am silent. This concerns only you; friend,
Reader-Response Criticism 193
ch13.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 193
do not enter this building without desire.” This inscription was one of
four composed by Valéry for the Palais de Chaillot, which was built in
Paris in 1937 to house museums and a theatre. It is an eloquent state-
ment of one of the principles of reader-response criticism.
2 Roland Barthes, The Pleasure of the Text, trans. Richard Miller (New York:
Hill and Wang, 1975) 63.
3 Norman Holland, Five Readers Reading (New Haven, CT: Yale University
Press, 1975) 189.
4 Here are two further examples of identity themes which Holland
devised for students whose responses he was studying: “Sandra sought
to avoid depriving situations and to find sources of nurture and
strength with which she could exchange and fuse. Saul sought from the
world balanced and defined exchanges, in which he would not be the
one overpowered.” (“Reading and Identity,” at
<www.clas.ufl.edu/users/nnh/rdgident.htm>).
5 David Bleich, Subjective Criticism (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University
Press, 1978) 296.
6 Bleich, 294.
7 Stanley Fish, Is There a Text in This Class? The Authority of Interpretive Com-
munities (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1980).
Questions to help you check your understanding of this chapter
1 What is the main reason why reader-response critics maintain that a
poem does not exist as “words on the page,” but only when it enters the
mind of a reader?
2 Explain what Norman Holland means when he says that readers create a
meaning for a text according to the needs expressed in their identity
themes.
3 David Bleich says that knowledge is “made in the classroom.” What does
he mean by this, and how is this knowledge different from what is nor-
mally considered to be knowledge?
4 Explain what Stanley Fish means when he says that it is the institutions
associated with literature (for instance, English departments in universi-
ties) which give stability to texts by putting limits on interpretation?
Suggestions for further reading
The texts mentioned in the notes above.
David Bleich, Readings and Feelings: An Introduction to Subjective Criticism
(Urbana, IL: National Council of Teachers of English, 1975). This is a
very short, useful book.
194 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch13.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 194
Joseph Gold, Read for Your Life: Literature as a Life Support System (Toronto:
Fitzhenry and Whiteside, 1990). This is a book about how readers can
use reading to enrich their lives, to help resolve difficult issues, and to
realize the importance of story in their understanding of themselves and
those they are close to. Gold is critical of much academic writing on liter-
ature because it ignores the feeling-responses of readers; his book is
based on such responses—his own and others.
Robert Scholes, Semiotics and Interpretation (New Haven, CT, and London:
Yale University Press, 1982). This is a lucid application of semiotic
theories to individual texts, with a glossary and a good annotated select
bibliography.
Susan Suleiman and Inge Cross (eds.), The Reader in the Text: Essays on Audi-
ence and Interpretation (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1980).
An anthology with articles by Jonathan Culler, Tzvetan Todorov, Gerald
Prince, and Norman Holland, and a good bibliography.
Jane Tomkins (ed.), Reader-Response Criticism: From Formalism to Post-Struc-
turalism (Baltimore and London: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1980).
An anthology containing a good introduction to reader-response criti-
cism by the editor, articles by Gerald Prince, Stanley Fish, Jonathan
Culler, Norman Holland, and David Bleich, and a good bibliography.
Reader-Response Criticism 195
ch13.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 195
196 Literary Theory: Structuralism and After
ch13.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 196
PART THREE
Standpoint Groups
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 197
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 197
198 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 198
CHAPTER FOURTEEN
Feminism, Gender Issues, and Literature
In Part Two of this book we dealt with many of the main kinds of lit-
erary theory as it developed in the last three decades of the twentieth
century. Three others—feminist criticism, Marxist criticism, and
postcolonial criticism—belong in a separate section because they are
built on a fundamentally different basis: the desire for social justice.
Each takes up the cause of a particular group of disadvantaged peo-
ple. Feminists work for improvements in the status of women. Marx-
ists want to help those who are disadvantaged by the class system,
especially labourers and those who live in poverty. Postcolonial crit-
ics want to reveal the ways in which colonized people were exploited
by the colonizing power, and try to repair some of the damage done.
There are many other disadvantaged groups in North America
today, and in theory each could develop a kind of literary criticism
aimed at rectifying the injustices from which it suffers. Examples that
come to mind are people who are afflicted by mental illness, or peo-
ple who are HIV-positive, or people who suffer from post-traumatic
stress syndrome. But none of these groups has produced a body of lit-
erary criticism that has been as influential as the criticism developed
by the groups dealt with in the following three chapters. Perhaps one
day they will. (Gay and lesbian criticism has become very important,
and it is included in this chapter under the general heading of gen-
der issues.)
Another type of standpoint group is made up of critics working in
green studies and ecocriticism. Their social goal is to promote aware-
ness that our healthy existence on our planet depends on protecting
the environment and on reversing the seemingly inexorable produc-
tion of greenhouse gasses, which result in global warming and its
devastating effects. Some ecocritics take issue with the poststruc-
turalist views that nothing is “natural” and that our idea of nature is
really only one of the many creations of our culture. They feel that
successful human life on Earth must depend on respecting nature,
and fitting in with its rhythms rather than exploiting and destroying
it. They feel that literature can play an important part in this process,
and that authors such as Wordsworth and John Clare can show us
how to live better in this respect.
In my view, however, the field of green studies has not yet pro-
duced a body of outstanding literary criticism, in the way that femi-
nists, Marxists, and postcolonial critics have. That is why I am not
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 199
199
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 199
including a chapter on ecocriticism. As the field develops, it may well
become more significant, as may other kinds of criticism based on
different forms of social action.1
Among interest groups producing literary criticism, feminists hold
an unusual place, both because of the broad constituency that they
represent, and because they were part of an important, widespread,
and surprisingly rapid change in social attitudes in North America
and Western Europe. Feminism served as an important model for
other movements, and so we will deal first with feminist literary criti-
cism.
Feminism and the issue of gender stereotypes
If you were a fly on the wall at a small, middle-class dinner party in a
North American city, you might find the men speaking about 70 per
cent of the time, and the women 30 per cent of the time. You might
also find that 80 per cent of the questions are asked by women, and
only 20 per cent by men.2 Why does this happen? Is it fair? Does it
bear any relation to the study of literature?
In a typical undergraduate English program in North America, I
would estimate that roughly 80 per cent of the works studied are writ-
ten by men, and about 70 per cent of the students are women. Once
again men seem to be doing most of the “talking,” and women most
of the listening. Why does this situation occur? What should be done
about it?
These statistics strongly suggest that there is a system in place in
our society that encourages men and women to take on different
roles in mixed company. Men are more likely to be active, produc-
tive, and assertive, while women tend to be more passive, receptive,
and inquiring. Although we are all aware of exceptions to these rules,
and it is possible for any person, by force of will or determination, to
become an exception, that does not change the fact that if you are
born a woman you are more likely to be listening than talking in
most situations where men and women interact.
The system (sometimes known as “the patriarchal order”) that
causes the majority of men and women to take on these different
roles is hidden, like the rules of grammar in a language. Children
learn to speak in complete sentences long before they know what
a complete sentence is, and men and women often play their “nor-
mal” roles in social groups without being aware that they have
taken on roles at all. One way of perceiving these roles is to make
a list of what is seen as “masculine” and “feminine” in North Amer-
ican culture.
200 Standpoint Groups
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 200
MASCULINE FEMININE
thinking feeling
aggressive compliant
liking a hierarchy that liking a network that disperses
establishes authorityau authority
oriented to sight oriented to touch
attack and penetration receiving, holding, nourishing
closed open
rational emotional
fixed fluid
going out into the world to work maintaining a home, nurturing
seeking the truth (a single truth) allowing for different truths
wanting to enter a new place wanting to contain
speaking listening
taking strong action being passive or taking weak
action
liking sciences liking the arts
mathematics clinical psychology
economics, thrift abundance, giving
the conscious mind the unconscious, dreams,
fantasies
This list is far from complete or definitive, but something like it is
operating in North America today. We need to ask why. One simple
answer often given by conservative thinkers is that “life is like that,”
that it is “natural” for men to have some characteristics and women
to have others. People who take this attitude sometimes ascribe the
differences to biological distinctions between the sexes, such as
women’s ability to have a new being grow inside her, or the differ-
ences in the shapes of the male and female sexual organs (convex vs.
concave, penetrating vs. receptive). It might seem likely that these
differences would be reproduced in the roles typically taken on by
men and women, although there are no clear rules for extrapolating
from anatomical differences to patterns of behaviour.
Recent studies, reported in The Economist, indicate that there are
identifiable differences between male and female newborn babies.3
Given two possible objects on which to focus attention, a human face
and a mechanical mobile, a baby girl will look for longer at the face,
and the boy at the mobile. Before the age of one, girls show a pref-
erence for dolls and tea sets, and boys for trucks and balls, when all
these toys are available. Vervet monkeys show similar preferences. As
Feminism, Gender Issues, and Literature 201
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 201
The Economist article stated, “The toys preferred by young females are
objects that offer opportunities for expressing nurturing behaviour,
something that will be useful to them in later life. Young males,
whether simian or human, prefer toys that can be used actively or
propelled in space, and which afford greater opportunities for rough
play.” One researcher believes that, from birth, “female brains are
hardwired for understanding emotions (empathising), and male
brains for understanding and building systems.”
The influence of physical sexual differences on psychological or
social differences between men and women is a subject of intense
and continuing debate. One way of distinguishing these two spheres
is to use the word “sex” to refer to physical differences and the word
“gender” to indicate differences that are culturally created and trans-
mitted from generation to generation. In her influential and fasci-
nating study published in 1982, In a Different Voice, Carol Gilligan pro-
vides some examples of how boys and girls are encouraged to
develop in different ways because of systematic social processes.4
Both male and female infants usually have their primary bond with
their mothers, and many psychologists would say that this bond is the
strongest and most important relation the individual will ever know.
But in order to develop to maturity, a boy has to switch his primary
relation from his mother to his father, which is not the case for a girl.
So maturing for a boy means separating from the mother and mov-
ing into a more masculine world, the focus of which is usually outside
the parental home. A maturing girl, like a boy, has to distance herself
from her mother, but the same sharp break is not necessary.
Gilligan also discusses the differences in how groups of boys and
girls play. Girls tend to play in small groups, often in pairs, and the
emotional bond between the members is much more important than
any set of “rules of play”—often there are not any articulated rules.
Boys, on the other hand, usually play in larger groups, often at semi-
organized games like pick-up baseball or hockey. There is usually a
complex set of rules in effect in these games, and it seems typical for
boys (when not supervised by adults) to spend as much time dis-
cussing the rules of the game and arguing about their application as
they do actually playing the game. Also the existence of a larger and
formalized social structure (for example, the “team”) makes it natu-
ral for a hierarchy to develop (at the top we find “the best player on
the team”), and some of a boy’s self-knowledge will consist of his
awareness of how he fits into the structure of the team. It is worth
noting that a boy playing on a team may feel little need for intimacy
or emotional bonding with the other members of the team, whereas
that bonding is often essential in a girl’s friendships.
202 Standpoint Groups
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 202
We do not need to assume that these distinctions are always in
effect to conclude that differences like these may often be operating,
with far-reaching effects on how men and women see themselves
after they have grown up. If boys do spend a lot of time at games, it
makes sense that as men they probably will have learned a lot about
working within power structures, systems of rules, and hierarchies,
and that the demands of big organizations may well be relatively
familiar and congenial to them. On the other hand they may be poor
at, and indeed frightened of, intimate relations, and may not be
skilled at expressing emotions, or dealing with them in others.
Women, in contrast, may have a lot of experience with friendship
and the various feelings that arise in intimate relations, but feel
incompetent, threatened, or repelled by the negotiations and com-
petition that occur in big organizations.
From these differences it might be possible to generate many of
the distinctions in the list of masculine and feminine characteristics
on page 201. It is important to realize that, while biology may play a
part in the construction of the two categories, cultural factors also
have a strong influence. Sometimes the cultural factors can be
altered. For example, when schools encourage girls to play hockey,
and boys to study cooking, there may be some impact on the devel-
opment of masculine and feminine stereotypes in our culture. An
engineering school, noting the consensus that women are less skilled
at imagining spatial relations than men, offered special training in
this field to their female candidates. The retention rate in engineer-
ing courses went up from 47 to 77 per cent. “Biology may predispose,
... but it is not necessarily destiny.”5
Things have changed since 1960
The substance of the section above could have been written fifty
years ago. Gender stereotypes were strongly in force, and women
graduating from university were often advised to seek fulfilment
through devoting themselves to raising a family and supporting their
husband in his career. Behind this attitude lay a form of thinking that
is now known as “essentialism.” This suggests that there is some
“essence” to being a woman, and that a woman can best find fulfil-
ment through accomplishing that essence—which is different from
the essence of being a man. According to essentialism, some stereo-
types are fundamentally valid and unavoidable. The opposite view,
known as anti-essentialism, holds that these essences are fictions cre-
ated by society, that they are different in different societies, and that
they can be modified and even changed radically.
Feminism, Gender Issues, and Literature 203
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 203
Precisely that has happened during the past fifty years in the West-
ern world. The proportion of women of working age with a paid job
has doubled, from one-third to two-thirds. In the United States, 140
women enroll in higher education for every 100 men.6 In some pro-
fessions (such as medicine) there is much less discrimination based
on sex than there used to be, although in other professions (such as
civil engineering) there has been less change. Some observers feel
that progress toward equality between men and women is more sig-
nificant a change in the world at large than were the famous political
revolutions, American, French, or Russian.
One consequence of the enormous success of the women’s move-
ment was that it split into a number of competing subgroups. In
1963, one of the main goals announced in Betty Friedan’s influential
book The Feminine Mystique was that women needed to be treated like
people, and that “all things that kept them from being full people in
our society would have to be eliminated.”7 But were the feminists of
the 1960s actually speaking only for middle-class, white, heterosexual
women? The needs of poor black women in the United States were
not the same, nor were those of women in impoverished third-world
countries. There was also a split between women who were anti-male
and those who were fundamentally more accepting of men. The anti-
male women felt that the root of the problem was the aggressive, vio-
lent nature of men, and that this was unchangeable. Women who
accepted men more easily pointed out that the violence of men was
in part caused by the fact that they had too much power, and that
women could be just as oppressive in situations in which they had
unlimited power—one example being while mothering in the home.
A well-known female literary critic asserted that feminists need to
stop sentimentalizing women and pretending that they are “better
than men.”8
Women’s issues became a matter of identity politics. The identity
of an individual woman could be seen as depending on what sub-
group she belonged to: as a straight or a lesbian woman, as white or
as a woman of colour, as poor or middle class. There has also been a
profound questioning of what gender really is. Judith Butler, a post-
structuralist philosopher, sees gender as something that is performed—
as we grow up, we are taught how to perform roles, and these consti-
tute our gender. Naturally this introduces a huge range of freedom,
at least in theory: everyone can learn to act in new and different ways,
if they want to. Then there is also the possibility of surgically chang-
ing one’s sex, and the particular interests of transsexuals, male and
female. This blossoming of a plethora of women’s interest groups is
reminiscent of the post-structuralism of Derrida: just as he could
204 Standpoint Groups
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 204
imagine language changing with the addition of new vocabulary,
feminists have much greater choice now in their allegiances than
they had thirty years ago. The world changes when your system for
organizing it—through words or through social groups—changes.
What has happened to men?
The questions raised by feminists about the patriarchal order, and
their demands for changes in actual social arrangements, had an
important impact on men. Many men felt attacked, and many men
in positions of relative power saw that the basis of their power could
be eroded by the advance of feminism. On the other hand, there
were possible benefits for men in the liberation of women from cer-
tain limitations and stereotypes. In The French Lieutenant’s Woman, for
instance, the hero, Charles Smithson, lives in a Victorian world in
which men (especially aristocrats like himself) have enormous advan-
tages over women. He is about to marry a woman who is like a child
in many ways, and he fears she will never be his equal. Part of his
attraction to the other woman in his life is that she is an outsider, and
does not live by the standard rules; for instance, she will contradict
him when she thinks he is wrong, which is something his fiancée has
been trained not to do. Sarah’s independence of spirit allows Charles
to glimpse a world in which men and women are much more equal
with each other, and marriage with such a woman is much more
attractive to him.
One response to feminist criticisms of the patriarchy has been
articulated by the psychotherapist and poet Robert Bly. His view is
that the socialization of men by men has been undermined by the
Industrial Revolution, and by the resulting changes in men’s working
lives. One result was that, in many families, the man was away much
of the time at his factory or other place of work, and so the bonds
between fathers and sons were substantially weakened. Young men
would grow up without much contact with older men, and so did not
have a chance to develop a clear, strong idea of what it meant to be
a man. So it is possible that in the twentieth century the “patriarchal
system” created systematic problems for men as well as for women.
Just as the social roles of women in the West have changed progres-
sively in the last fifty years, there now seems to be a steadily advancing
awareness of the particular situation of gay men, and a reduction and
elimination of the social stigma attached to gay relationships. One of
the consequences of gay liberation has been a re-evaluation of litera-
ture written by gay men, and a re-reading of the classics from the past
in search of evidence that particular authors were homosexual, or that
Feminism, Gender Issues, and Literature 205
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 205
relationships within canonized novels had homosexual overtones.
Thomas Mann’s work, for example, has received this kind of attention.
Another fertile area of investigation has been Renaissance literature in
England, because during that period homosexual and pederastic rela-
tionships were viewed much more permissively than they were, subse-
quently, during the eighteenth century. One reason for this was the
importance of Greek and Roman models for writers in the Renais-
sance—models in which pederasty was not unusual.
Another aspect of relations between men in literature that has
been uncovered is “homosocial bonding.” This refers to the rela-
tionships fostered within a patriarchy, between men, which may or
may not have a sexual component. Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick has sug-
gested that in these relationships, there may not be a clear demarca-
tion between men who are heterosexual and men who are gay, and
that homosexuality is a latent possibility in all or most men. Given the
public prejudice against homosexuality, some men, she would say,
suffer from a kind of panic when they feel close to another man, and
become homophobic—that is, they respond in a harshly negative way
to any element of emotional bonding between men.
So the women’s movement in the 1960s and after generated new
awareness on the part of men. Both of these developments found
echoes in literary criticism.
Queer theory
Many lesbian women felt an element of liberation when the women’s
movement produced changes in North American society. Some, how-
ever, felt that their personal and political interests were not well
served by an identification with the women’s movement, since in it
heterosexual women were in the majority. There was a possible con-
vergence of interests with those of gay men, although this link was
always uneasy, given the many differences between the two groups.
Nevertheless, members of both groups could contribute to “queer
theory.” Here the term “queer” loses its connotation of an excluded
party and is accepted with pride. Judith Butler, an eminent post-struc-
turalist philosopher and feminist, pointed out that it was among het-
erosexuals, in the nineteenth century, that the word “homosexual”
was first used, and so it was from the outset tinged with opprobrium.
Queer theory generally advocates dissolving the clear boundaries
between male and female, and between straight and gay, because
these categories are sources of stereotypes and oppression, and are
often used to identify people whom the majority would consider
“deviant” in some way.
206 Standpoint Groups
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 206
Some queer theorists, influenced by post-structuralism (see Chap-
ter 8), would say that all identities are constructed, approximate, and
therefore unstable. All binary oppositions in which one term is
assigned a greater value (such as “normal / deviant” and “hetero-/
homo-”) can be reversed and deconstructed. This leads to a particu-
lar interest in situations where boundaries are crossed (for example,
from male to female) and in borderline situations near these bound-
aries. Anyone who has ever felt they are not “normal” in some respect
will understand how liberating it could be to have that category
deconstructed. But the element of freedom that may be experienced
through queer theory also undoes identity politics. Your identity
cannot be based on groups of people (“I am gay”) if those groups are
not defined with some degree of clarity.
An important topic discussed by Judith Butler is the performative
aspect of gender. This adjective refers to a certain kind of statement
in which the making of the statement actually performs an action in
the world, as in the example “I pronounce you husband and wife.”
When the statement is made, and because it has been made, the status
of the couple involved has changed. Now they are married. Of course
such statements depend on a set of rules accepted by society, and on
the status of the person making the pronouncement. Butler main-
tains that we create our gender identity in a performative way, by per-
forming certain actions, or gestures, and that there are no eternally
fixed roles that identify genders. This may seem to imply that we are
free to construct new kinds of identities, but the social rules usually
constrain us and may imprison us, especially if we perform our roles
unconsciously:
The act that one does, the act that one performs, is, in a sense, an
act that has been going on before one arrived on the scene.
Hence, gender is an act which has been rehearsed, much as a
script survives the particular actors who make use of it, but which
requires individual actors in order to be actualized and repro-
duced as reality once again.9
It is the very widespread repetition of certain gender “scripts” that
makes them seem immutable, but they have no independent reality
apart from these repetitions. A brave and inventive person can write
(and perform) a new script; a person who is unable to conform with
current stereotypes may unwittingly invent a new script or introduce
a new irony into the field.
Literary criticism based on queer theory, because it deconstructs
standard categories such as “gay” and “straight,” can help free us
Feminism, Gender Issues, and Literature 207
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 207
from the assumptions of our culture about what is “natural,” and so
it often undermines what we usually accept as “natural” or “realistic”
in fiction.
Gender stereotypes and literary criticism
So far in this chapter I have mostly discussed questions that are essen-
tially sociological: how have the roles and the freedoms of women
and men changed in the past half-century? I have not dealt with lit-
erary issues very much. This makes sense when dealing with the lit-
erary theories in Part 3, since each of these theories is based on a par-
ticular set of social issues. But there is a good reason why such
questions often arise in English courses: it is often in imaginative liter-
ature that a reader finds the fullest depiction of his condition, and it
is in literature that the desires, frustrations, and satisfactions of indi-
viduals are most fully and persuasively described. You are more likely
to be struck with a sudden feeling of “That’s me!” when you are read-
ing a novel than when reading a sociology text.
“Literature” as an institution seems to bear a heavy imprint of
patriarchal culture. Most of the canonized authors are male, as are
most of the professors, critics, and editors who keep the canon in
place and maintain its authority. Anthologies compiled by men are
likely to favour male authors. Many of the dominant themes of great
literature (for example, adventure, heroism, political struggle, ambi-
tion, and conquest) are closely related to the masculine qualities in
the list on page 201, and some important genres (such as the epic
and the picaresque novel) seem suited to the masculine and anti-
thetical to the feminine.
The patriarchal order can leave its imprint on almost any area of
social life. Many feminists feel that the English language itself is sex-
ist, and that it conveys the implication that men are central and
women marginal, particularly through the use of “man” and male
pronouns to refer to people in general. (We can see sexist aspects of
other languages: in Mandarin, the character meaning “goodness” is
a combination of those for “woman” and “child,” and “peace” is com-
posed of “woman” under a roof. Although English does not contain
this kind of ideological assumption in its orthography, we should be
on the watch for similar “meanings” hidden in our language.) Gram-
mar itself, because it is a system of rules, may have a masculine feel,
and some feminists assert that subversion of those rules has a femi-
nine quality—as in Molly Bloom’s long monologue at the end of
Ulysses, in which punctuation is eliminated and the stream of con-
sciousness flows freely.
208 Standpoint Groups
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 208
Some French feminist thinkers have focused attention on unusual
ways of using language. Julia Kristeva sees a contrast between a
closed, orderly, rational use of language (which involves a good deal
of repression) and a more open, playful, innovatory kind of lan-
guage, which she associates with the experience of the infant during
the earliest stages of life, in the womb and at the breast, before the
age at which sexual differentiation becomes significant. (Behind this
distinction may lie Freud’s contrast between the superego and the
id.) In her essay “The Laugh of the Medusa,” Hélène Cixous is elo-
quent about the need for women to break out of patriarchal modes
of thought, and one method for achieving this is to concentrate on
the body:
Women must write through their bodies, they must invent the
impregnable language that will wreck partitions, classes, and
rhetorics, regulations and codes, they must submerge, cut
through, get beyond the ultimate reserve-discourse.10
There is a strong utopian element in this essay, most clearly shown
by Cixous’s assumption that we can live on the basis of our desires,
without rules, and that the love and giving of women and women’s
writing can overcome the scarcity engendered by a masculine eco-
nomy of the mind and spirit. There is a concomitant sense that par-
adigms are easily changeable (and perhaps ultimately not very impor-
tant). A more masculine view would be that paradigms have
enormous inertia, and that it is as hard to change your paradigm as
it is to learn a new language.
Finally, we can consider sexism in criticism. It seems logical and
inevitable that commentary by men on a dominantly male canon will
reflect patriarchal concerns, and that is often true with author-
centred criticism. When commentary is concerned with the meanings
of works, it is revealing to note the value given to the “legitimate” or
“correct” meaning, which is usually the “author’s meaning,” and the
hierarchy of authority the search for this meaning establishes. (The
“experts” have to know a lot about the author’s life to claim certainty
about what this meaning is.) A parallel can be drawn here between
determining the “legitimate” meaning of a text and the legitimate
children of a man.11 In each case you need a complex intellectual
and social apparatus (with a lot of repression, rules, rule-enforcers,
and experts) in order to determine what (or who) is legitimate. But
who the child’s mother is is perfectly obvious to everyone assisting at a
birth; and, similarly, in reader-response criticism, it is obvious what
the reader’s meaning is. So we might feel justified in suspecting that
Feminism, Gender Issues, and Literature 209
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 209
author-centred criticism has many connections with the masculine,
or patriarchal, paradigm. Reader-centred criticism involves more
feminine qualities: a dispersal of authority, a plurality of valid mean-
ings for a work, and a concern with community rather than author-
ity.
Dealing with gender issues in individual works of literature
We now turn to several questions that can be applied to almost any
work of literature, to investigate how a work presents the masculine
and feminine aspects of experience.
Perhaps the most important general question to ask is this: “Whose
experience is rendered most fully and faithfully?” Is this a novel that
presents men’s experience from the inside, sympathetically, with the
sense of the man as someone evolving with some inner freedom and
choice? Or does the novel focus more directly on the experience of
women, their communities, their interests, and their possibilities?
Are members of one sex presented as stereotypes, and members of
the other shown with more detail and more subtlety? Is there hid-
den—or, indeed, overt—misogyny? Are men normally shown to be
insensitive? Are masculine and feminine activities and values pre-
sented differently? Is adventure valued more than cherishing and
nourishing? Do women dominate men, or vice versa? From whose
point of view is this process seen?
In general, male authors are better at writing about the inner life
of men, and female authors do better at making their female char-
acters subtle and believable. This may be the basis for some critics’
assertion that Homer was in fact two authors, a male who wrote The
Iliad (focusing on armies, personal conflict, and war), and a woman
who was responsible for The Odyssey (which deals much more with
domestic and family life). Shakespeare, of course, excelled in pre-
senting both men and women. Robert Hellenga, in The Fall of a Spar-
row, uses narration focused on a man’s consciousness, but for certain
chapters switches to first-person narrative spoken by his daughter. He
even uses her voice to end the novel, which is concerned with the
father making a new life for himself in Italy. For the reader, what is
actually happening to her father becomes more indefinite, because
we can observe only the part of his life that his daughter knows about
and can understand.
Another set of questions has to do with how the author presents
the society in which the work is set, and the ideology of that society.
If you are writing about Montreal society in the 1930s, as Hugh
MacLennan does in The Watch that Ends the Night, the desire to be
210 Standpoint Groups
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 210
realistic entails showing that in public life men occupy more posi-
tions of authority than women. But what attitude does the book take
toward that fact? Is it critical, or in favour of it, or neutral?
A third set of questions, complementing the first, is concerned
with “gaps” in the work. Of course not even a long novel can provide
a complete view of social life, although epic novels, such as War and
Peace, provide a great deal of information. But there may be system-
atic exclusions. Most of Joseph Conrad’s works accord a very minor
place to women. The men in Margaret Atwood’s novels are often
viewed from the outside (we do not see what is happening in their
minds), and are also often stupid. Specific exclusions or gaps can
indicate a lot about an author’s ideology.
We can also ask questions about how the reader or the narratee
(see Chapter 11) is “constructed” in the text. Many novels give
explicit specifications about what kind of readers they are soliciting,
and the actual readers may fit in with those specifications, or resist
them, and find themselves reading against the grain of the novel.
Some novels encourage masculine rather than feminine readers.
In addition, we should be on the watch for large generalizations
about life made by the author. Anna Karenina begins with the state-
ment that “Happy families are all alike; but every unhappy family is
unhappy in its own way.” Jane Austen begins Pride and Prejudice with
“It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in posses-
sion of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.” Austen has her
tongue in her cheek and Tolstoy is serious, but in both cases it is use-
ful to ask whether these statements reflect the experience of men or
of women. Is any social group being privileged or marginalized in
statements like these?
A final set of questions is “Whose desires and fantasies are driving
the novel? When it comes to an end, does the feeling of completion
come from the fact that a woman’s, or a man’s, desires have been
achieved or assuaged?” In War and Peace, Pierre’s search for a wife is
a principal theme in the book; and after an unsuccessful marriage
with Hélène, he finally marries Natasha. But this is also a stable landing-
place for Natasha. In D.H. Lawrence’s Women in Love, Ursula and
Birkin, although they end the novel living together, have some of
their desires frustrated: Birkin wanted to have a committed tie to
Gerald Crich, who is dead, and Ursula hoped that Birkin would be
completely satisfied by having his main human contact only with
her—and he wants more than that.
Of course not all these questions will be relevant to every work of
literature, but having them in mind may bring to light, and help
explain, a bias in a work that is important to us.
Feminism, Gender Issues, and Literature 211
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 211
Beyond masculine and feminine
Carl Jung’s view was that just as we all contain the genetic material to
create males and females, we also house within our psyches both mas-
culine and feminine characteristics.12 Most girls growing up in North
American society are encouraged to repress their masculine traits
and develop those that show them to be “attractively feminine.” Simi-
larly, most boys are urged (by their parents, their peers, and adver-
tising) to leave their feminine attributes hidden or undeveloped, and
to become aggressive and ambitious. (The table on page 201 is one
result of these processes.) Jung, however, maintained that ignoring
the inner woman or inner man leads to incompleteness, and that one
penalty we pay for mistreating members of the opposite sex is that we
do violence to the inner contra-sexual element in ourselves. Some of
Jung’s followers have maintained that the tradition of Western phi-
losophy and science has impoverished itself by largely ignoring the
reality of women’s experience.13
The fundamental aim of many feminist critics is to create a sepa-
rate world for women’s literature, where it can flourish and be appre-
ciated without irrelevant interventions by men, or competition from
the established classics for attention. Some of this activity goes on in
programs in women’s studies, and one result is anthologies of litera-
ture by women, selected by women. Sometimes these women believe,
like some French feminists, that women’s writing is inherently differ-
ent from men’s writing. On the other hand, one eminent female
critic has denied categorically that language is inherently male or
female:
Language is certainly a powerful force in the hands of anyone who
uses it well, whether Jane Austen or Shakespeare, but it is of itself
neither male nor female, and it can as well affirm the autonomy of
the female subject (think of Emily Brontë’s “No Coward Soul is
Mine”) as deny it.14
Confirming this general outlook, another woman professor wrote:
I believe that to maintain that women write and read differently,
think and feel in some unique way, and that they are interested in
questions that only pertain to themselves is to confine them to
what, in essence, is an intellectual kitchen as narrow, as limiting, as
unacceptable as was the domestic kitchen to which they were con-
fined in the past.15
212 Standpoint Groups
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 212
This is not a result that would be desired by feminists in general.
* * *
What can we conclude from this brief survey of some of the main
gender-related issues in literary criticism? I am aware that any syn-
thesis may feel oppressive to members of minority groups, and to
advocates of the dissolution of group identities. Nevertheless, my
conclusion is that an important dialectical process seems to be at
work.
A key concept in any culture is what it is to be human. During a
patriarchal era, this will often be envisaged in male terms, and
expressed for men. When this unfair focus on male interests is chal-
lenged, at first the reformers will need to concentrate on what has
been left out. This has been the task of the feminists (and later the
lesbians, and still later the gays): to define their own tradition, to re-
animate forgotten writings, to recover a lost or a hidden history, and
to discover new interpretations of classic works. Once the subgroup’s
vision and power have been firmly established, then there lies ahead
another task, one that requires a more comprehensive spirit and a
broader vision. That is to redefine what it means to be human,
including fully the emergent subgroup, instead of ignoring it or mar-
ginalizing it. Literature will almost certainly play an important role in
this process of redefinition. The individuals who contribute to this
achievement will receive, and deserve, high honours.
Notes
1 For a brief treatment of this subject, I recommend Chapter 13 in the
second edition of Peter Barry’s Beginning Theory (New York: Manchester
University Press, 2002); for a much more complete treatment, see Lau-
rence Coupe (ed.), The Green Studies Reader: From Romanticism to Ecocriti-
cism (New York: Routledge, 2000).
2 It is of course hard to find reliable statistics in this area, and so readers
need to test these figures against their own experience. Dale Spender
and Sally Cline report that their field research shows that “In conversa-
tion with men it is almost unheard of for any woman to talk for more
than one third of the time ... women consistently report that they have
had a fair share of the conversation, even if that share was less than
20%.” Reflecting Men at Twice their Normal Size (London: Andre Deutsch,
1987) 8-9.
3 “The Mismeasure of Woman,” The Economist, 3 Aug. 2006.
Feminism, Gender Issues, and Literature 213
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 213
4 Carol Gilligan, In a Different Voice: Psychological Theory and Women’s
Development (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1982).
5 “The Mismeasure of Woman.”
6 The Economist, 15 April 2006, 73-74.
7 Diane Johnson, “What Do Women Want?” New York Review of Books, 28
Nov. 1996.
8 Helen Vendler, “Feminism and Literature,” New York Review of Books, 31
May 1990.
9 Judith Butler, “Performative Acts and Gender Constitution: An Essay in
Phenomenology and Feminist Theory,” Performing Feminisms: Feminist
Critical Theory and Theatre, ed. Sue-Ellen Case (Baltimore: Johns Hop-
kins University Press, 1990) 272, quoted in Dino Felluga, “Modules on
Butler: On Performativity” Introductory Guide to Critical Theory, 2003
<http://www.purdue.edu/guidetotheory/genderandsex/modules/but-
lerperformativity.html>.
10 Hélène Cixous, “The Laugh of the Medusa,” Signs 1 (1976): 875-93.
11 This subject is discussed in Jonathan Culler’s On Deconstruction (Ithaca,
NY: Cornell University Press, 1982) 58-61.
12 “In the past, it was assumed that a female was simply a male with hor-
mones.... The truth is the exact opposite. Female is the default brain
setting. Until the eighth week of gestation every human fetal brain
looks female. The brain, like the rest of the human body, becomes
male as a result of surges of testosterone–one during gestation and one
shortly after birth.” (“The Mismeasure of Woman,” The Economist, 3
August 2006.)
13 A Freudian psychiatrist who has written on this theme is Karl Stern, in
The Flight from Woman (New York: Paragon House, [1965] 1985).
14 Helen Vendler, “Feminism and Literature,” The New York Review of Books,
31 May 1990.
15 Felicia Bonaparte, “Reply to Helen Vendler,” The New York Review of
Books, 16 Aug 1990.
Questions to help you check your understanding of this chapter
1 Think of some ways in which men and women are encouraged to take
different roles in society. How are these roles passed on from generation
to generation? In your opinion, is there some justification for them?
2 How has the success of the women’s movement affected its coherence?
3 What is queer theory?
4 How can the existence of gender stereotypes appear in literary works?
5 What are some questions that will help a reader notice gender bias in
works of literature?
214 Standpoint Groups
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 214
Suggestions for further reading
Catherine Belsey and Jane Moore (eds.), The Feminist Reader: Essays in Gen-
der and the Politics of Literary Criticism (London: Macmillan, 1989). A col-
lection of essays by Dale Spender, Mary Jacobus, Sandra M. Gilbert and
Susan Gubar, Hélène Cixous, Julia Kristeva, and others, with a glossary
and a short, selective bibliography.
Mary Eagleton (ed.), Feminist Literary Theory: A Reader (Oxford: Blackwell,
1986). This book provides short statements (some as short as a page) by
writers and critics, grouped into five chapters: “Finding a Female Tradi-
tion,” “Women and Literary Production,” “Gender and Genre,” “Toward
Definitions of Feminist Writing,” and “Do Women Write Differently?”
The introductions to the chapters, written by the editor, are especially
helpful.
Carol Gilligan, In a Different Voice: Psychological Theory and Women’s Develop-
ment (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1982).
Sandra M. Gilbert and Susan Gubar, introduction to The Madwoman in the
Attic: The Woman Writer and the Nineteenth-Century Literary Imagination
(New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 1979).
Toril Moi, Sexual/Textual Politics: Feminist Literary Theory (London: Methuen,
1985).
Feminism, Gender Issues, and Literature 215
ch14-pt3.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 215
CHAPTER FIFTEEN
Marxist Criticism
Marxist criticism, like feminist criticism, is essentially political. It sub-
ordinates the study of literature to a higher goal of making society
fairer for a disadvantaged group of people: the poor and members of
the lower class. For a Marxist critic, a novel’s value depends on
whether it advances the interests of the poor and the exploited, or
helps the wider world understand their plight. Karl Marx, one of the
key thinkers of the nineteenth century, was very interested in how
certain groups (or social classes) acquire and keep power over other
groups, and Marxist critics pay a lot of attention to the social struc-
tures that allocate power to different groups in society. For a Marxist,
literature has the ability to represent the tensions and conflicts
between classes, to articulate utopian visions of alternative societies,
and to participate in a general process of emancipating people who
are socially and economically oppressed.
Marxism: the basic theory
The key idea in Marxism is that, in most societies, a dominant group
of people (the upper class) is able to get and make use of far more
resources than the main bulk of the population. So in ancient
Greece and Rome, slaves did a huge amount of the physical labour
and were paid nothing, while many aristocrats received enough
income to make working unnecessary. In the Middle Ages, peasants
worked the land, but most of the profit from their work went to lords
and ladies who lived in the local castle. Today, senior executives have
salaries in the millions of dollars, while many workers in the service
industry, or in factories (especially in the developing world) receive
a minimum wage. One of Marx’s main contentions in Capital (1867)
was that in each of these cases, workers are systematically underpaid,
and the profit that comes from their work is diverted into the hands
of the dominant class. In many societies, this process is made to seem
normal and natural. In Shakespeare’s time in England, the son or
daughter of a peasant farmer would almost certainly expect to
remain in his or her parents’ social class, and do the same type of
work that they did. “Upward mobility” was virtually unheard of.
Marx’s fundamental point was that this situation was unfair, and that
the system producing it needed to be examined and changed, so that
the inequalities would be reduced and a more just society created.
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 216
216
ch15.qxd 17/03/2007 11:40 AM Page 216
Marx’s fundamental point is easy to see if you imagine a group of
fifteen university students living in a large house. They need to divide
up the work involved in feeding themselves and maintaining the
house. But suppose the established system was that if you came from
a very rich family you didn’t have to do any of this work, and if you
came from a poor family you had to do six hours a day of cooking,
cleaning, and shopping. It would seem natural to us that the students
from the poor families would feel exploited. But in the world of nine-
teenth-century British capitalism in which Marx lived, something
quite like this was happening. In many poor families, the parents
worked twelve-hour days, seven days a week. Many aristocrats did not
have to work at all. Middle-class families could live quite comfortably,
supported by servants to whom they paid low wages.
How could we turn this student house into a fairer place to live? An
obvious way would be to share the tasks equally, and (as much as pos-
sible) allow each person to do the kind of work he or she liked best.
There would still be drudgery, but it is much less oppressive when
you perceive it as necessary, and fairly shared. Each person does his
or her part. Marx’s hope for a good society can be seen in his famous
formula about how to decide how much individuals will work and
how much they will be paid: “From each according to his abilities; to
each according to his needs.”
Marxism is built on a theory about social progress in the West since
the Middle Ages. (This is a good example of a “grand narrative,” the
kind of story of which deconstructionist critics are suspicious.) In the
Middle Ages, the feudal system was the basis for economic organiza-
tion. This allowed the aristocrats to own the land, which was the basis
for agricultural production. Peasant serfs did the manual labour of
farming, but they received very little compensation for their work.
The profit was taken by the members of the upper class to support
their activities, such as riding, organizing balls, jousting, and waging
war. (There was also a group of what we might now call “middle man-
agers,” who organized and managed the activities of the aristocrats,
and were paid somewhat better than the peasants.) This feudal sys-
tem was stable for quite a long time, but it was gradually weakened by
the rise of three new social groups whose members typically lived in
cities (and so were called “bourgeois,” a bourg being a French word
for city). These groups were the merchants (who traded and sold
goods), the bankers, and the industrial capitalists (who set up facto-
ries). This undermined the feudal system because slowly the main
basis for creating huge fortunes became the industrial factories,
rather than agriculture. Just as the feudal system produced the
exploited class of the peasant farmers, the industrial capitalist system
Marxist Criticism 217
ch15.qxd 17/03/2007 11:40 AM Page 217
produced the exploited class of factory workers, or (as Marx referred
to them) the proletariat.
Marx predicted that there would be a third stage in this develop-
ment, which would represent the ideal communist society. He
thought it would come about because the capitalists would become
fewer and richer, and eventually the working poor would rise up and
overthrow their masters, and then establish a better system, in which
justice and fairness would replace privilege and exploitation. In this
ideal society, which looks quite like the Christian idea of the “just
city” or the “new Jerusalem,” there would be economic and social
cooperation. As much as possible, individuals would feel free, happy,
and fulfilled—not only in their work, but also in their families and
their friendships.
With the spread of Marx’s ideas after his death, a split developed
between those who believed that socialism could be achieved
through peaceful, evolutionary means, and those who thought that
violent revolution was necessary to create the ideal society. The vio-
lent group triumphed in Russia in 1917, and established communism
as one form of Marxist socialism; but Marxist influence is also clearly
present in the West in the creation of the welfare state (with social-
ized medicine and unemployment insurance) and in the trade-union
movement.
Although Marx’s hopes have borne valuable fruit in actual social
changes, a number of his key theories have been disconfirmed or dis-
credited by developments in the twentieth century. In the West, cap-
italists have not become fewer in number or driven their competitors
into the revolutionary proletariat. Instead, a substantial and materi-
ally well-rewarded middle class has prospered, and the living condi-
tions of workers in many capitalist countries have improved markedly
over the last hundred years. The centrally planned economies of the
Soviet Union and the communist eastern-bloc countries in Europe
were not, in general, successful at meeting the needs of their citizens,
and, since 1989, rule by one-party systems in Europe has been mas-
sively rejected. Finally, Marxist revolutionary socialism has not led to
the abolition of privilege or the “withering away of the state,” as Marx
predicted. On the contrary, most communist countries have fostered
privileged élites and sprawling, inefficient, and often corrupt gov-
ernment bureaucracies.
In the West, most people familiar with Marxism are critical of it
because (1) during the Cold War, the West defined itself in opposi-
tion to communism; (2) the results of communism in China, Cuba,
and elsewhere do not look attractive to most Westerners;1 and (3)
Marx’s erroneous predictions mentioned in the previous paragraph
218 Standpoint Groups
ch15.qxd 17/03/2007 11:40 AM Page 218
indicate major flaws in his thinking. Finally, the idea of treating every-
one equally seems to ignore the need to motivate individuals to work
hard. But in spite of all these flaws in the Marxist outlook, Marxist lit-
erary criticism has a lot to offer us, and in order to appreciate it, we
need to acknowledge Marx’s fundamental devotion to defending dis-
advantaged people and developing strong, well-functioning commu-
nities.
Why Marxist literary criticism is worth our attention
For Marxists, a work of literature does not exist “on its own.” They
put it in the context of the historical period in which it was produced,
and see it as an expression of the class conflicts that existed at that
time. Those conflicts represent a moment in a vast historical process,
beginning with feudalism in the Middle Ages and reaching far into
the future. So to understand Hamlet in Marxist terms, you have to
learn about the economic and social conditions around 1600 in Eng-
land, understand the class conflicts at that time, and see how that
period fits into the slow process of cultural and economic develop-
ment over the past thousand years. Although most people cannot
tackle such a challenging project, the questions that Marxists raise
can be intriguing and, in their massive scale, awe-inspiring. They are
the product of a stage 3 mind (see Chapter 9, on Vico) engaging with
a vast expanse of human experience.
Another aspect of the big canvas of Marxist literary criticism is that
it places the study of literature in the context of important social
questions. Here are some examples:
• Is it fair or desirable that we live in a world where some people
become rich manufacturing hydrogen bombs and other instru-
ments of war, while one-fifth of the world’s population (one billion
people) have no proper access to clean water and have a life
expectancy of less than forty-five years?
• A famous Marxist critic, Walter Benjamin, said that “Every work of
culture is also a work of barbarism.”2 The idea behind this can be
expressed by saying that for every person who is able to spend five
hours a day involved with literature, there are another ten who are
illiterate, and twenty more who never read anything more compli-
cated than a comic book or a newspaper article. Reading and writ-
ing literature is an élite activity, and the élite is maintained at the
expense of many other people who are oppressed.
• If access to literature is mostly limited to people who come from
relatively wealthy backgrounds, why does it deserve our attention at
Marxist Criticism 219
ch15.qxd 17/03/2007 11:40 AM Page 219
all? On the other hand, we might argue that it is precisely through
reading literature that we see most clearly how our social system
works, and what people from different social classes experience.
Most literary criticism sidesteps these questions about the place of lit-
erature in our economic and social life. But it would be healthy to
have answers to them. Marxist analysis could help us work out these
answers.
It is worth adding that many students are hostile, consciously or
unconsciously, to Marxist ideas, especially if they are trying to
“improve themselves.” One reason for this hostility is that self-
improvement often is measured by the perception that someone is
moving up in the social scale, or making more money. For these yard-
sticks to be available, there needs to be a class system, and a wide
range of wages. Marxism, in striving for greater fairness, promotes
equality and discourages élitism. So Marxist thought is hostile to the
existence of one kind of yardstick by which high achievers can meas-
ure their progress.
Marxism and ideology
In the first chapter (pages 40-42) I described the way in which a per-
son’s ideology affects almost everything he or she sees, and the dia-
gram on page 41 represents ideology as a kind of grid that you look
through, sometimes without being aware that such a grid exists.
Marxist criticism places questions about ideology at the centre of its
enquiries. One Marxist critic describes ideology as
... the beliefs, attitudes, and habits of feeling which a society incul-
cates in order to generate an automatic reproduction of its struc-
turing premisses. Ideology is what preserves social power in the
absence of direct coercion.3
In a society based on slavery, the ideology in place helps the slave-
owners feel that there is nothing wrong with them having complete
power over the slaves whom they own, and it is possible that even
some of the slaves accept this ideology. This helps the masters to keep
them in their place. In such a situation, it might be unlikely for a
slave owner to even have the thought that slaves should have the
same rights as he does. It can be extremely liberating to become
aware of your own unconscious ideology, and then be able to imag-
ine living by another ideology. Sometimes this can happen when you
read a novel.
220 Standpoint Groups
ch15.qxd 17/03/2007 11:40 AM Page 220
James Joyce depicts this process in A Portrait of the Artist as a Young
Man. Stephen Dedalus is raised in institutions that support the
Catholic Church, and for a brief period he lives by its ideology. But
when the question is put to him whether or not he wants to become a
priest, he realizes he is repelled by the dryness of the lives of the priests
he knows. He also needs to escape the nets that Ireland and the Irish
nationalists are trying to throw over him. The novel ends with him leav-
ing Ireland and the Church, and going to Europe to become an artist.
A reader might ask herself by what ideology he was then living. It might
reasonably be called “pan-European aestheticism.”
Most students in North America, consciously or unconsciously, live
by an ideology that is often called liberal humanism. It accords great
importance to the freedom of the individual, and sanctions big dif-
ferences in wealth and income, because to insist on economic equal-
ity would restrict individual freedoms greatly. Humanism implies that
the important values in this ideology are derived from the experi-
ence of human beings, rather than from a source of dogma such as
the Bible, the Pope, or Chairman Mao. One worthwhile aspect of
Marxist criticism is that it throws the assumptions of liberal human-
ism into question. North Americans tend to value the freedom of the
individual over the well-being of the group, whereas one of Mao’s
main aims in the Cultural Revolution in China in the 1960s was to
prevent intellectuals from passing on their liberal beliefs to their stu-
dents, and subverting the Marxist insistence on the primacy of the
group. So we might draw a parallel between a North American stu-
dent reading A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man and going on a trip
to China: both provide the experience of immersing oneself in an
alien ideology.
Joyce’s novel consciously criticizes an existing ideology (that of the
Roman Catholic Church), presenting it first from the inside and
then viewing it from the outside. But artists are not necessarily aware
of their involvement with ideology. Many of the most powerful pre-
sentations of ideology occur when a novel seems ideologically naive,
and reflects in an honest way how fundamental conflicts in society
are being worked out (usually unconsciously) by its members. In
Balzac’s Père Goriot, Rastignac, the protagonist, comes from the mid-
dle class, and at one point in the novel he hopes to rise in the world
through his own merit; but he soon sees that he can advance himself
much more effectively by gaining the protection of an aristocratic
woman. In the novel, the aristocracy itself is being undermined by
the financial power of the bourgeoisie. Goriot’s two daughters can
gain access to the world of the aristocracy because of their father’s
wealth, even though he made it by manufacturing pasta. So although
Marxist Criticism 221
ch15.qxd 17/03/2007 11:40 AM Page 221
superficially Père Goriot seems to be about the adventures of Ras-
tignac, it can also be seen to be fundamentally about the struggle for
power between the landed aristocracy and the bourgeoisie.
For many Marxist critics, the value of a work of literature resides in
its presentation of the ideology in force when it was written. Georg
Lukács, the Hungarian critic, makes this clear in the preface to his
Studies in European Realism. The great European realists, such as
Balzac and Tolstoy, present not just their personal world view, or
Weltanschauung, but a more comprehensive one that engages with
the fundamental social or political problems of their times.4 Terry
Eagleton, the leading Marxist critic in England, says that the main
function of the high modernism of the 1920s was to offer a criticism
of the hegemony of capitalism.5 T.S. Eliot’s The Waste Land, then,
would be seen as a depiction of the sterility of European bourgeois
capitalism in the early twentieth century.
Texts may be more than simply a direct criticism of the reigning ideo-
logy or a positive statement about it. They may be sites of struggle
themselves, where different views of the world fight with one another.
This is clearly the case with Dr Zhivago, in which the protagonist starts
out as a supporter of the Russian Revolution, and then devotes much
of his energy to presenting an alternative to the conformity demanded
by the communists—the alternative being the life of the artist who pays
attention to particular individuals, feelings, and nature.
Another depiction of the struggle between ideologies can some-
times be seen in the literature of colonial and postcolonial countries,
where the values of the colonist are in conflict with those of the
indigenous population. This struggle may be universal in colonial sit-
uations, but it receives an interesting twist when natives in a colo-
nized country instinctively put the values of the dominating culture
above their own. This occurs in Paul Scott’s novel The Jewel in the
Crown, which is set in pre-independence India. One character,
Duleep Kumar, wants to acquire a British way of speaking and think-
ing so he can then accede to the power and prestige of the British
colonizers. Wanting “the best” for his son Hari, he sends him to Eng-
land to be educated, and tries to prevent any Indian influence from
reaching him; but after his father’s death Hari is forced to return to
India alone and in great poverty. Except for the colour of his skin,
Hari has all the trappings of an educated, upper-middle-class Eng-
lishman; but in India he is rejected by everyone—by the English
because he is not white and by the Indians because he has no Indian
culture and speaks only English. In this novel, the ideological conflict
between the colonizer and the colonized is focused in the fate of a
single, tragic character.
222 Standpoint Groups
ch15.qxd 17/03/2007 11:40 AM Page 222
Works of literature that are more ideologically naive can be
analysed in yet another way, by seeing them from a “superior posi-
tion” and pointing out where they are inconsistent or self-contradic-
tory—and indicating the “gaps” or “fissures” or “blindnesses” that
they contain. For instance, a critic might describe a popular televi-
sion show as being constructed out of “one-liners,” usually humorous
but at some moments serious. This kind of program may seem blind
to the fact that many issues in life cannot be dealt with in such a stac-
cato manner. This condescending, “de haut en bas” approach is not
likely to be useful for students of literature, especially if they are read-
ing canonical works, although it may help the cause of demystifica-
tion to suggest that even great works have some limitations.6
A further role of Marxist criticism is that of pointing out and doc-
umenting the way in which literature and “the literary” function as a
part of ideology. In Tolstoy’s Anna Karenina, Karenin, Anna’s dull but
eminent husband, makes a concerted effort to keep abreast of the
latest developments in literature and in the artistic world generally.
He does this because he feels it is an essential part of his role in life
to be able to discuss contemporary art intelligently at social gather-
ings, even though he has little feeling for it. Here literature is func-
tioning, or being used, as a way of separating people into different
social groups.
A final important way in which ideology can be involved in the
study of literature occurs in the phenomenon known as “aestheti-
cism,” an ideology we first encountered with reference to Stephen
Dedalus above. This is an ideology that places supreme value on the
experience of art—the reading of great works of literature, for
instance—and maintains that this activity will provide us with the
highest and most intense experiences in our lives. Some critics take
this view, and it also attracts some students of literature, because it
makes what they are doing seem very important. But many intellec-
tuals outside the field of literature find aestheticism a narrow-minded
and unattractive ideology.
One element of aestheticism is the belief in something that might
be called “the rich inwardness of the private life.” Studying the canon
of Western literature tends to promote a feeling that there are cer-
tain powers of mind that are inherent, indestructible, and eternally
valuable (the qualities of “man’s unconquerable mind,” as
Wordsworth puts it); and that these powers can be attained through
the essentially private activity of reading. Marxism, on the contrary,
insists that nothing in human experience is eternal and that inner
consciousness only takes on real significance when it has social con-
sequences.
Marxist Criticism 223
ch15.qxd 17/03/2007 11:40 AM Page 223
William Blake wrote that “bless relaxes; damn braces.” One of the
invigorating elements of Marxist literary criticism for those of us who
are not Marxists is that it braces us by approaching us with a true and
lively spirit of opposition.
The bourgeois uses of Marxist criticism
Roland Barthes says that one function of literature in the West is to
give people the belief that they are individuals, as though this were a
healthy fiction for them to embrace (in the way that Kant thought it
was valuable to believe in the immortality of the soul). The teaching
and study of literature are often bound up with fostering a belief in
the importance of individuals. Marxists tend to reject this belief as an
opiate that distracts people from paying attention to questions of
overriding importance, such as the state of the class struggle. But
teachers and learners often work best at the local level, even when
they have large aims in mind. This was put eloquently by Robert Pir-
sig in Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance:
I think that if we are going to reform the world, and make it a bet-
ter place to live in, the way to do it is not with talk about relation-
ships of a political nature, which are inevitably dualistic, full of sub-
jects and objects and their relationship to one another; or with
programs full of things for other people to do. I think that kind of
approach starts at the end and presumes the end is the beginning.
Programs of a political nature are important end products of social
quality that can be effective only if the underlying structure of
social values is right. The social values are right only if the individ-
ual values are right. The place to improve the world is first in one’s
own heart and head and hands, and then move outward from
there. Other people can talk about how to expand the destiny of
mankind. I just want to talk about how to fix a motorcycle. I think
that what I have to say has more lasting value.7
This attitude seems appropriate for students and teachers. It is
important to be aware of the big problems that affect the world as a
whole, but concentrating exclusively on them can lead to a frustrat-
ing feeling of powerlessness.
One reason that ideology is a compelling area for attention in lit-
erary studies is that it is not limited to the political sphere. Although
we all have assumptions about how we slot into the existing class sys-
tem and how we would like to see that system change, we also have
assumptions (many of them unconscious) about much more local
224 Standpoint Groups
ch15.qxd 17/03/2007 11:40 AM Page 224
matters, such as what the good life is, how rewarding friendships
work, and how children should be raised. We have ideas (often inher-
ited from our parents) about the role of emotions in ordering our
lives, about the relative claims of work and of family life, and about
whether good fences make good neighbours. Many of the books
studied in the undergraduate curriculum deal with these matters.
That is one reason why they can be fascinating.
Marxism encourages us to ask big questions, such as how societies
develop over hundreds of years, and how a particular ideology can
affect what we perceive. For committed Marxists, changing society is
the top priority, and literature is of secondary importance (although
it may be very useful to them). The main use of Marxism in literary
studies in the West lies in adapting Marxist methods of analysis, espe-
cially those dealing with ideology, to help us talk about and resolve
smaller problems, which occupy most of us most of the time.
Notes
1 Some observers maintain that the failed communist states were not in
fact following Marx’s ideas closely, but had veered into becoming totali-
tarian police states that would not have been recognized by Marx as the
result of his ideas.
2 Walter Benjamin, quoted by Terry Eagleton in Walter Benjamin, or
Towards a Revolutionary Criticism (London: Verso, 1981).
3 Michael Ryan, “Political Criticism,” Contemporary Literary Theory, ed. G.
Douglas Atkins and Laura Morrow (Amherst: The University of Massa-
chusetts Press, 1989) 203.
4 Georg Lukács, Studies in European Realism (New York: Grosset and Dun-
lap, 1964) 10-12.
5 Terry Eagleton, Marxism and Literary Criticism (London: Methuen, 1976)
19.
6 Re-reading books that we first encountered as children can sometimes
provide the shock of recognizing a clear ideology. The first Babar book,
by Jean de Brunhoff, is based on French colonial ideology in a striking
way.
7 Robert Pirsig, Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance (New York: Ban-
tam, 1988) 267.
Questions to help you check your understanding of this chapter
1 What is the fundamental moral or social goal behind Marx’s thinking?
2 Explain how, according to Marx, economic relations determine what
political system will be in force.
Marxist Criticism 225
ch15.qxd 17/03/2007 11:40 AM Page 225
3 What function does ideology fulfill in social life, according to Marx?
4 What aspects of a work of literature are most important to Marxist liter-
ary critics?
5 Explain why Marxist literary criticism might be interesting to someone
who is a liberal humanist rather than a Marxist.
Suggestions for further reading
Terry Eagleton, Criticism and Ideology (London: New Left Books, 1976).
—–. Marxism and Literary Criticism (London: Methuen, 1976). This book is
short (86 pages), clear, and has a select bibliography with seventeen
entries.
Fredric Jameson, The Political Unconscious: Narrative as a Socially Symbolic Act
(Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1981). This is a dense and demand-
ing book, and shows a committed Marxist’s insistence on historicizing
the work of literature, by showing how the work presents the contradic-
tions in society, the struggle between the classes, and the “cultural revolu-
tion.”
Raymond Williams, Marxism and Literature (Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 1977).
226 Standpoint Groups
ch15.qxd 17/03/2007 11:40 AM Page 226
CHAPTER SIXTEEN
Postcolonial Criticism and Multiculturalism
Postcolonial literature is literature written in the shadow of the great
European empires, which, by one estimate, held 85 per cent of the
rest of the world in their sway by 1914.1 This means that the vast
majority of non-European peoples have been affected by the fact that
they were colonized by a foreign power. Some eminent thinkers
would insist that the culture of Europe itself is fundamentally marked
by its leading role in colonizing the world. It was a project energized
in part by high ideals: the desire to bring the benefits of European
science, technology, and medicine to millions of people leading lives
that were viewed (by the Europeans) as primitive and impoverished.2
During the twentieth century, however, colonization was increasingly
seen in its less attractive aspect:
The conquest of the earth, which mostly means taking it away from
those who have a different complexion or slightly flatter noses
than ourselves, is not a pretty thing when you look into it too
much.
This is Marlow, the narrator of Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness
(which was written in 1899). He considers the possibility that empires
are fundamentally “just robbery with violence, aggravated by murder
on a grand scale.”3
The widespread interest now in postcolonial criticism is a natural
result of the vast extent of the world’s colonial systems, and the
efforts of many of the colonized peoples to gain their independence,
both economically and culturally. Here are some of the issues raised
in postcolonial criticism:
• How did the culture of the colonizer affect that of the indigenous
population?
• How did exploitation occur, and what reparations are in order?
• How open were the colonizers to the experience of the natives?
• How does a person form a solid identity when he or she is part of
a group that is consistently viewed as subhuman or irrational by the
colonizing power?
• When there are vast cultural differences between two peoples (for
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 227
227
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 227
instance, between the British and the Hindus in India), can a com-
mon form of reasoning be found?
• Is science ideologically neutral?
• What effect does the canon of “great literature” in English have on
native writers, and on English-speaking settlers in the new world,
both of whom are writing about experiences that are very different
from those of the canonical authors?
• How is the “great literature” of England affected by the fact that
England possessed, and was enriched by, a huge empire?
And, finally, the “multicultural questions”:
• When a country contains several cultures, should some have
precedence over others? How should state support be allocated to
the various cultural groups? What languages should be spoken in
the schools? What literature should be read?
It is hard, and perhaps impossible, to be impartial about these ques-
tions. Anyone approaching them will have assumptions and commit-
ments already established. In particular, your attitude will depend on
two issues. Are you predominantly a victim of colonialism, or a bene-
ficiary of it—perhaps an unwitting beneficiary? And, second, does the
culture in which you currently live empower you, by presenting you
with images of people you can identify with, who are happy and suc-
cessful in life (to put it crudely)? Or, on the other hand, does your cul-
ture regularly indicate that people like yourself will probably be
exploited, harassed, or denied a hearing, or a job, or fair wages?
People from “subaltern” groups, who have suffered widely from
discrimination (such as blacks in the United States, or Hindus and
Muslims in Britain, or Algerians in France), are almost always aware
that they have to deal with an alien, but dominant, culture, or speak
a language other than their mother tongue. People from dominant,
or colonizing groups, however, often are much less aware of the sys-
tem of oppression that is in place. The group you belong to will affect
the way you see issues of postcolonialism and multiculturalism. We
will begin by considering one of the early and most eloquent advo-
cates of the colonized peoples of Africa, Frantz Fanon.
Frantz Fanon’s The Wretched of the Earth
Frantz Fanon, who was born in 1925 in the French West Indies, was
the psychiatrist in charge of a hospital outside Algiers in the 1950s.
He could see, first hand, evidence of the extreme suffering of the
228 Standpoint Groups
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 228
Algerians during their war of independence, which lasted from 1954
to 1962. During that time approximately 300,000 Algerians were
killed (many of them murdered by other Algerians). The French,
who had up to 500,000 soldiers stationed in Algeria, made brutal and
determined attempts to control the country with counter-terrorist
operations. Hundreds of thousands of Algerians were tortured.
Fanon gave up his hospital work in 1956 to become one of the lead-
ers of the Algerian National Front (which fought for independence),
and the editor of its newspaper.
In The Wretched of the Earth, Fanon says that not only was the French
colonial policy in Algeria one of economic exploitation, but also that
it included an attempt on the part of the French to create “a system-
atic negation of the other person, and a furious determination to
deny the other person all attributes of humanity.”4 The aim of the
colonizers was not only to dominate, but to eliminate everything in
the lives of the natives that might have given them a sense of identity
or dignity. Their language, history, culture, and achievements were
devalued and ridiculed, and they were seen as a species of subhuman
animal.
Why would the French colonizers engage in this kind of systematic
abuse of the native population? Fanon’s answer would be that the
essential goal of the French in Algeria was extreme exploitation, and
that to engage in this successfully, the colonizers needed to see the
native peoples as subhuman. He says,
Europe is literally the creation of the Third World. The wealth
which smothers her is that which was stolen from the under-devel-
oped peoples. The ports of Holland, the docks of Bordeaux and
Liverpool, were specialized in the Negro slave-trade, and owe their
renown to millions of deported slaves.
Colonialism and imperialism have not paid their score when they
withdraw their flags and their police forces from our territories.
For centuries the capitalists have behaved in the underdeveloped
world like nothing more than war criminals. Deportations, mas-
sacres, forced labour, and slavery have been the main methods
used by capitalism to increase its wealth, its gold and diamond
reserves, and to establish its power.5
He goes on to compare the Algerians’ demand for compensation
from France to the demands made by Europeans of the Germans,
after what was, in effect, the colonization of Europe during the Sec-
ond World War.
Postcolonial Criticism and Multiculturalism 229
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 229
Fanon says that the confrontation between the colonizers and the
colonized generates a kind of Manichaeism, an extreme polarization
in which people are seen as either good or evil. The colonizers need
to see the natives as depraved human beings, or not as human beings
at all—somewhat in the way that Shakespeare portrays Caliban in The
Tempest. When the natives realize this, Fanon says, their only effective
response will need to be equally extreme. They cannot negotiate with
their oppressors, or take partial measures, or hope for a compromise.
They need to resort to violence.
At this point in his argument Fanon articulates many themes that
re-appear in subsequent postcolonial literature and criticism. One is
the process by which, before the struggle for independence takes
place, some natives cooperate with, and assimilate themselves to, the
foreign dominators, partly because this gives them some access to
power, but also because it allows them to constitute themselves as
selves. (Fanon felt that one important result of colonial subjugation
was that most indigenous people could not imagine having a “self” in
the Western sense.) Westernized natives may then be unwilling to
support a revolution that will throw out the colonizing power,
because this will take away the basis for their own favoured position,
and may put them in danger of reprisals.6 Those who do become revo-
lutionaries face further challenges. One is to rouse the mass of their
people to action; another is to recover the original native culture that
has been largely obliterated by the colonizer. But inevitably this cul-
ture, even if it can be brought to life, will belong to the past, and be
outmoded. So a subsequent task for workers for independence will
be to create a living culture that reflects the current reality of the
native population.
Fanon was a genuine idealist, envisaging the possibility that
Africans could create a new, communal, compassionate society that
would renounce violence and exploitation. Although he was
impressed by the achievement of European civilization in conquer-
ing most of the world, he saw it as cruel, harsh, and self-centred:
Europe undertook the leadership of the world with ardour, cyni-
cism and violence. Look at how the shadow of her palaces stretches
out ever further! Every one of her movements has burst the
bounds of space and thought.... [But] let us waste no time in ster-
ile litanies and nauseating mimicry. Leave this Europe, where they
are never done talking of Man, yet murder men wherever they find
them, at the corner of every one of their own streets, in all the cor-
ners of the globe. For centuries they have stifled almost the whole
of humanity in the name of a so-called spiritual experience.7
230 Standpoint Groups
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 230
As opposed to the hierarchies set up by European colonists, Fanon
imagined the independent Algerian republic working on the princi-
ples of extreme decentralization, with contact and interchange
between the leaders and the rank-and-file, and a clear understanding
that the government would be at the service of the masses. In addi-
tion, he said, “Women will have exactly the same place as men, not
only in the clauses of the constitution but in the life of every day: in
the factory, at school, and in the parliament.” The living expression
of the nation would be found not in the leaders, the palaces, or ritu-
als of politics, but in “the moving consciousness of the whole of the
people: it is the coherent, enlightened action of men and women.”8
One of Fanon’s greatest admirers, and a leader among postcolo-
nial critics, was the Palestinian-American professor of literature
Edward Said. In his book Orientalism, written in 1978, he expands
Fanon’s view of how the French denigrated the Algerians, to give an
account of how Europeans in general have seen Muslims and other
peoples from the Middle and Far East in a stereotyped way, lumping
them together as a single class of people who are considered lazy,
unreliable, and unreasonable. Said points out that the category of
“the oriental” is culturally constructed, often with the help of estab-
lished scholars, and it seems in the West to have the status of a fact,
whereas it misrepresents and misunderstands the variety of Eastern
peoples and civilizations, and is really a myth generated in the West
for Western purposes. Like Fanon, Said was concerned with practical
politics, and in lifting the burden placed on indigenous people in
areas like Palestine. (He was a member of the Palestinian National
Council.) In the academic world, one of his goals was to produce a
kind of knowledge that did not oppress or coerce minority groups in
society. He wanted to take apart the systems of domination con-
structed by colonialism and, he would have said, by culture itself.
Encountering “the Other”
One of the principal elements in colonial and postcolonial literature
is what is called “the encounter with the Other.” On the one hand,
this could take place when an indigenous person in a colonized
country encountered European culture, with its threatening panoply
of weaponry, Christianity, and disease. On the other hand, it could be
the European settler encountering what seemed to him the mystery,
the darkness, and the threat of a native culture. How does the mind
react when it encounters something new and strange? I would like to
illustrate this process with a visual analogy.
A few years ago I showed forty slides of paintings by Vincent van
Postcolonial Criticism and Multiculturalism 231
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 231
Gogh to a class of 11-year-olds, and talked briefly about his life, the
development of his style, and the meteoric growth in his popularity
in the twentieth century. I spoke about his early attempts to work as
a teacher, as a Christian minister, and as an assistant in an art dealer’s
store; about his failure in love, and his loneliness and poverty at many
periods of his life. I mentioned that in 1987 his painting of irises
brought the highest price ever paid (until then) for a single painting,
$53.9 million. I then asked the children to do a drawing that would
be an imitation of something van Gogh might have painted. I sug-
gested (jokingly) that it might command a high price if it looked like
an authentic work, and I put a “Vincent” signature in the bottom left-
hand corner of the paper I gave them to draw on.
The drawings that the children produced seemed very revealing to
me of the ways in which they dealt with the otherness of van Gogh’s
life and works. The results fell into three basic categories. Several
children drew cartoon characters that they clearly were accustomed
to drawing before they saw the van Gogh paintings. The one I have
reproduced on the next page is of “An Average Teacher.” The subject
was perhaps suggested by our discussion of Vincent’s life, but visually
the drawing owes nothing to the paintings we saw. At the other
extreme, two or three children tried to reproduce, almost exactly, a
picture by van Gogh that they had in front of them. “The Sunflowers”
illustrates this. Here there was a lot of van Gogh, and relatively little
of the child.
“The Baseball Glove” and “Three Lonely Flowers” fall between
these two extremes. The first was inspired directly by van Gogh’s early
painting of a pair of peasant’s boots. This child took an ordinary
object that was sitting on his desk, and tried to do for it what van
Gogh had done in his own painting of a pair of old boots. This pro-
duces a mixing of the child’s life and van Gogh’s painting. “Three
Lonely Flowers” is a more complicated combination because it works
on an emotional as well as a visual level. I had shown the children a
painting of a vase of flowers, and we had talked about the rhythmic
use of lines, or swirls, in van Gogh’s paintings; these are present on
the vase. But the element of loneliness portrayed in this drawing
comes, I am sure, from my brief narrative of the painter’s life.
What this exercise suggests is that when you encounter “the other,”
you may
(i) stick with your own experience, and be relatively uninfluenced.
(This is what happens for most of the English settlers in A Passage to
India, who cannot imagine sharing anything important with a native
Indian.)
232 Standpoint Groups
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 232
Postcolonial Criticism and Multiculturalism 233
Three modes of interacting between the self and the other:
A: The self dominates; B: the other dominates; C and D: a balance between
the self and the other produces hybridization, a blending of two sensibilities
that is similar to dialogue.
A: The Average Teacher, by Bill Cruess B: The Sunflowers, by Sandra Henderson
C: The Glove & Ball, by Lloyd Elliott D: Three Lonely Flowers, by Will Bonnycastle
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 233
(ii) you can abandon your own culture and adopt that of the other.
(This is what happens to the figure played by Kevin Costner in the
film Dances with Wolves, when he abandons his own people and takes
up life with the Sioux.) Or
(iii) you can develop a response that mixes elements of yourself with
elements of the other. (Fielding and Mrs Moore do this in A Passage
to India; they make a genuine attempt to interact, and learn from, the
Indians.)
The third response is probably the most common of the three,
because few people can be entirely unaffected by encountering
another culture (though there will be a range of how much different
people are affected). In postcolonial criticism this response is some-
times referred to as “hybridization”—a new, hybrid form is produced,
which contains elements of different cultures or languages. We
should not, however, imagine that producing a mixing of two cul-
tures is an easy process, any more than mixing two of Kuhn’s para-
digms (see Chapter 4).
What happens when we encounter “the other” in the literature
that we read? One of the biggest difficulties in reading a novel about
a culture very different from your own is that many of the details of
what happens will not have clear meanings, simply because you can-
not supply an appropriate background for them. This was certainly
true when I first read Arrow of God, by the Nigerian novelist Chinua
Achebe.9 It is focused on the chief priest of an alliance of six villages
of the Igbo tribe, who tries to lead his people effectively while they
establish relations with the British colonial administration. One
struggle he undergoes is to maintain his position of authority within
the alliance, where there is a good deal of formal consultation
between the elders of the villages. He also endeavours to learn about
the local Christian mission, by sending one of his four sons to “be his
eyes” there.
Much of the first part of this moving novel is a description of
events that take place in the social and religious life in the village of
the chief priest. This is given without much explanatory material,
and a lot of what happens is hard to understand at first if you are
unfamiliar with the culture. This task is made more difficult by the
fact that the characters’ names are hard to remember, and Achebe
uses Igbo words for some objects, presumably because no English
equivalents exist. I found that the novel first became very involving
during a section in the middle that narrates the attempt by the
British district manager to set up a “clan chief” (he wants to choose
234 Standpoint Groups
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 234
the chief priest, whom he admires), because this is the policy that his
superiors in the colonial administration have decided to impose.
(The manager himself disagrees with it.) He sends a black messenger
to command the chief priest to come to see him; and the messenger,
in turn, wants to impose his authority on the priest and his village.
One reason I found this section compelling is the fact that the sub-
ject of conflict between rival authorities, and the problems of having
a centralized administrative system, are very familiar to me from
reading English literature, and living in the Western world. This sub-
ject does not feel like something alien to me—it feels like an aspect
of my own culture, and so more accessible. But interpreting this sec-
tion of the novel is difficult because it is hard to know what the nor-
mal role of the priest is in Igbo society, and what is liable to offend
his dignity. Perhaps the familiarity I feel is deceiving, and I am not
perceiving “the other” clearly.
My point here is that encountering “the other” is difficult in itself,
and often we deal with it by seeing parallels with our own familiar
experience. Perhaps the most we can hope for in perceiving “the
other” is a hybrid mixture of two cultures, rather than direct insight
into the unfamiliar one. “Encountering the other” is, of course, a
theme that occurs in many areas of literary study: the incomprehen-
sible other in a work of literature may be another character in the
protagonist’s own culture, or an aspect of himself that is repressed.
In the study of comparative literature (that is, comparing works of lit-
erature from two or more cultures), “the other” may be an entire cul-
ture. Postcolonial criticism adds to this the possibility of a hierarchi-
cal relation between cultures: at first the culture of the colonist will
almost certainly be dominant, and the task of the indigenous people
will be to reassert the claims of their own culture.
The category of postcolonial literature also includes the work pro-
duced by settler cultures, which find themselves placed between the
indigenous peoples (for whom they represent the colonizing power)
and the mother country (for whom they may represent a marginal
and relatively uncivilized group). Settler cultures have to find their
own identity in the new country, and their own authentic voice in
writing, which will inevitably be different in form and style from the
models available in the mother country. American literature seems to
have gone through this process of self-definition in the nineteenth
century, and Canadian literature in the twentieth century. The major
works in these traditions can then be reabsorbed into the canon of
“literature in English,” and the canon of English literature will be
altered as a result.
This process is particularly striking in the case of the literature of
Postcolonial Criticism and Multiculturalism 235
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 235
Ireland, which has a long history of suffering from English coloniza-
tion, although this fact is often forgotten. From the twelfth to the
twentieth century Ireland was brutally treated by England, her land
expropriated, and her citizens disenfranchised. Edward Said points
out that
In Ireland ... the idea of murdering Gaels was from the start “as
part of a royal army or with royal approval, [considered] patriotic,
heroic, and just.” The idea of English racial superiority became
ingrained; so humane a poet and gentleman as Edmund Spenser
in his View of the Present State of Ireland (1596) was boldly proposing
that since the Irish were barbarian Scythians, most of them should
be exterminated.10
Approximately one-quarter of Ireland’s population died or was
driven abroad during the potato famine of the 1840s—1.6 million
Irish men and women emigrated to the United States alone—and the
process of gaining independence from England dominated Irish pol-
itics in the early part of the twentieth century. The struggle over
Northern Ireland has continued to this day. It seems ironic now that
the works of Yeats and Joyce, both of whom were strongly affected by
the liberation movement, are seen as two of the outstanding authors
of twentieth-century English literature.
A similar process of merging two opposed cultures can be seen at
the level of language in nations that have emerged from colonial
rule. If English became the language of administration during the
colonial period, then indigenous authors may have a strong incentive
to use English rather than their native language, so their works can
reach a wider audience. But in whose English should they write? The
idiomatic language of London and Oxford will carry overtones rem-
iniscent of the former rulers and their condescension. Another pos-
sibility is to write employing the idioms of the native users of English
in their particular nation, which has its own authenticity. This lan-
guage is sometimes referred to as “english” with a small letter e.
Some authors achieve wonderfully subtle effects by combining and
contrasting these two forms of the English language.11
What conclusion can we reach about these encounters with “the
other” in postcolonial literature? One relevant warning concerns the
difficulty caused by dipping into a series of unfamiliar cultures in a
course on postcolonial literature. The temptation on the part of the
teacher may be to explain a lot of details, to make the novels more
accessible, but in some ways this disempowers the reader and insults
the novel. Arrow of God is comprehensible without any footnotes, and
236 Standpoint Groups
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 236
supplying them in class may be an error. Another caveat is that what
is radically “other” may well be simply inaccessible—this is the case
with the Hindu parts of A Passage to India (especially Professor God-
bole’s actions) for many readers. Then the challenge for both the
reader and the teacher is to allow that gap to remain empty, rather
than fill it with familiar ideas from Western religion or ideology. But
drawing the line between cases such as this one, and those in which
some form of blending (or hybridization) is appropriate, is a delicate
and important issue in teaching postcolonial literature.
Hidden signs of colonial exploitation in “great” literature
If Frantz Fanon was right to say that the economic greatness of Euro-
pean countries such as France and England was built on the basis of
colonial exploitation, then it makes sense to look for evidence of this
in the literature written at the time. Edward Said has discussed two
examples of this in Culture and Imperialism. One occurs in Camus’s
The Outsider, in which the French settlers in Algeria are presented in
considerable detail, while the Algerians (one of whom the protago-
nist kills) have almost no individuality at all. The second case occurs
in Mansfield Park, by Jane Austen. Most of the action of the novel
occurs in the stately home in England of Sir Thomas Bertram and his
family, but he is absent for part of the novel because he is away look-
ing after business affairs on Antigua in the West Indies. Almost cer-
tainly this business involves a sugar plantation worked by slaves, and
it is this business that allows his family, and the people connected
with them, to live at ease back in the mother country. So the high
civilization represented by Sir Thomas’s household depends on the
misery of slaves, labouring in a colony six thousand kilometres away.
This is never explicitly stated in the novel. How does this hidden
dependence affect our assessment of this novel’s morality?
Here the effect of postcolonial criticism is to help us see literary
works in a new, and more complete, light. Once we have this knowl-
edge, it is very difficult to ignore it.
Monoculturalism and multiculturalism
The study of postcolonial literature focuses on nations emerging
from hegemonic domination and discovering their own identities.
The pressing questions posed by multiculturalism arise in countries
where there is more than one culture alive and struggling for recog-
nition, such as the Native, French, and English cultures in Canada,
or the Native, Black, Hispanic, and European cultural groups in the
Postcolonial Criticism and Multiculturalism 237
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 237
United States. (In both of these countries there are other cultural
groups seeking recognition as well.) Until perhaps thirty years ago,
many countries in this situation adopted a monocultural attitude,
symbolized by the idea of the melting pot: there was one dominant
culture, and groups with different cultural backgrounds needed to
assimilate themselves to that culture, to “the way we do things here.”
Increasingly in recent years, groups from different cultures have
demanded, and received, better treatment, which has usually caused
bitter resentment in some parts of the dominant, hegemonic culture.
There are two main arguments for adopting a multicultural view-
point in a country like Canada or the United States. The first is that
to stick with monoculturalism—one language, one central tradition,
and one ideology—is far too limiting, and that everyone misses out
on a lot that is valuable in other cultures. This argument is often put
forward to justify opening up, for instance, the canon of “great
books” to include works by Asian and African-American authors.
An even more compelling argument depends on a view of human
development that places strong emphasis on the importance for a
young person growing up to feel that he or she is part of a recognized
and valued group. This view is closely related to some of Frantz
Fanon’s arguments, and he is a principal influence in its develop-
ment. The main contention is that if you grow up as part of a group
that is not recognized, or that is actually publicly considered inferior
or subhuman, then you are likely to internalize those attitudes
toward yourself, and have, as it were, an agency within yourself that
devalues and criticizes you. This is such a disadvantage to members
of the subaltern group that a democratic society will want to take
action to mitigate that disadvantage and to give its members equality
of opportunity. One way to do this is to publicly recognize and value
the cultural works of members of these groups. (The overlap with
feminist issues is worth pointing out here. A similar argument can be
made for including more works by women authors in university liter-
ature courses.)
An extreme multiculturalist might want to say that all human cul-
tures are of equal value, or equally interesting, and that we should
revise our canons of important literature in a much more inclusive
way. Perhaps in a school with similar numbers of students of, say,
Asian, Black, Slavic, and Anglo-Saxon descent, the compulsory litera-
ture courses should contain an equal concentration on authors from
the different ethnic groups. It is hard to know what the statement
“All human cultures are of equal value” really means. But the oppo-
site was clearly stated by British critic and historian Thomas Babing-
ton Macaulay in 1835:
238 Standpoint Groups
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 238
I have no knowledge of either Sanscrit or Arabic. But I have done
what I could to form a correct estimate of their value. I have read
translations of the most celebrated Arabic and Sanscrit works. I
have conversed ... with men distinguished by their proficiency in
the Eastern tongues. I am quite ready to take the oriental learning
at the valuation of the orientalists themselves. I have never found
one among them who could deny that a single shelf of a good
European library was worth the whole native literature of India or
Arabia. The intrinsic superiority of the Western literature is indeed
fully admitted by those members of the committee who support
the oriental plan of education.12
There is something Victorian about Macaulay’s confidence that an
objective assessment of a foreign culture is possible. We would not
expect to hear anything similar from a respected thinker today.
The Canadian philosopher Charles Taylor has recently pointed
out that minority groups in Canada that would like to have more
presence in the canon would (and should) be insulted by an auto-
matic judgment that their novels are as good as Canadian novels writ-
ten in English or French. Such a judgment should come only after
careful study of the other culture; and presumably the standard for
evaluating works of literature written in Mandarin (for instance)
would be quite different from those in operation in English Cana-
dian culture. A lot of work would be necessary before we could
approach judgments of this sort.13
Taylor’s proposal, with which I agree, is that we should set out to
study other cultures with the assumption that we may find works that
are as interesting, or more interesting, than those we value most from
our own culture. What we discover when we have done the necessary
work will almost certainly be that our ways of judging what is inter-
esting or good literature will have changed, as will our personal lists
of the books we esteem most. As Taylor says, there may be a moral
issue here, which is to recognize that “we are very far away from that
ultimate horizon from which the relative worth of different cultures
might be evident. … What [is required] of us is not peremptory and
inauthentic judgments of equal value, but a willingness to be open to
comparative cultural study....”14
But where does this leave us in deciding what should be taught in
a compulsory first-year university literature course, for instance? I
have no answer to this difficult question. I agree that it is important
to recognize the various cultures present in our social makeup, and
represent them in our canons. I feel we also need to take account of
the difficulty of entering other cultures; a real concern with “the
Postcolonial Criticism and Multiculturalism 239
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 239
other” is, in my experience, quite rare in any age group. In The
Wretched of the Earth, Fanon insists that a nation emerging from colo-
nialism must first of all develop its own identity and culture—that
nationalism needs to come before the pursuit of “international cul-
ture.” I feel quite sure that something analogous to this is true in the
case of the development of individual human beings. The self that is
strong can reach out to “the other,” but the self that is in the process
of development may need to look after its own house first. We will
explore these issues further in the penultimate chapter on “resituat-
ing authority.”
Previous chapters in this book have all had a central core or sub-
ject. It is worth pointing out that postcolonial criticism and multicul-
turalism, like postmodernism, do not really have a centre, in an
important sense: all three are about throwing off a central authority,
and finding local solutions to problems.15 Although different post-
colonial societies may have some features in common, the essential
qualities of (for example) Maori and Haida culture may be utterly
different. In those cases, to look for solutions to literary or pedago-
gical problems on a general plane may only lead to frustration. But one
moral imperative pushing us in the direction of recognizing diversity
is well put by Edward Said near the end of Culture and Imperialism:
We are mixed in with one another in ways that most national sys-
tems of education have not dreamed of. To match knowledge in
the arts and sciences with these integrative realities is, I believe, the
intellectual and cultural challenge of moment.16
This challenge cannot be properly met, in my opinion, simply by
expanding the canon and adding more to the current curriculum,
although that may be the best step to take first. We need to accept the
responsibility of identifying what will be eliminated to make room for
the new material. No one that I know of has a promising solution to
this problem, but that is not a reason for abandoning hope that one
may yet be found.
Notes
1 Edward Said, Culture and Imperialism (London: Vintage, 1994) 6.
2 The opposite attitude is expressed by a character in Marie Balmary’s Le
moine et la psychanalyste, reporting on his experience in third-world
countries: “I discovered cultures and communities in which life, sick-
ness, and death had a very different value [than in Western civiliza-
tion].... I stopped considering rich those people who possessed a lot
but always wanted more, and I did not call poor those who did not pos-
240 Standpoint Groups
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 240
sess things which they did not want” (Paris: Albin Michel, 2005, 37-38;
translation mine).
3 Joseph Conrad, Heart of Darkness (Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1973) 10.
4 Frantz Fanon, The Wretched of the Earth (New York: Grove Press, 1966)
203.
5 Fanon, 80, 79.
6 For example, tens of thousands of Algerians who fought on the side of
the French were slaughtered by the FLN once the French abandoned
the colony.
7 Fanon, 252.
8 Fanon, 161, 163. Adam Schatz reports that “The revolutionary ‘spon-
taneity’ of the peasantry was little more than a myth; violence supplied
the motor of the revolution, a top-down affair in which the poor were
largely passive. ... In the early years of the war, the overwhelming num-
ber of the FLN’s victims were Algerian peasants who failed to rally
behind it.” “The Torture of Algiers,” New York Review of Books, 21 Nov.
2002.
9 Chinua Achebe, Arrow of God (London: Heineman, 1964).
10 Said, 222. Said quotes from Angus Calder, Revolutionary Empire (Lon-
don: Cape, 1981) 36.
11 Ngugi wa Thiong’o, the Kenyan author, has written a moving account
of his experience of language in a colonial context, and in fact the arti-
cle is his farewell to English, in that he says everything he will write in
the future will be in Gikuyu or Kiswahili. He is particularly eloquent on
how language embodies the assumptions built into the entire culture.
He says, “There is a gradual accumulation of values which in time
become almost self-evident truths governing their [that is, a people’s]
conception of what is right and wrong, good and bad, beautiful and
ugly, courageous and cowardly, generous and mean in their internal
and external relations. ... Values are the basis of a people’s identity,
their sense of particularity as members of the human race. All this is
carried by language. Language as culture is the collective memory bank
of a people’s experience in history” (“Decolonising the Mind,” in Liter-
ary Theory: An Anthology, ed. Julie Rivkin and Michael Ryan, 2nd ed.,
Oxford: Blackwell, 2004, 1134). He also says, “In my view language was
the most important vehicle through which that [English colonial]
power fascinated and held the soul prisoner. The bullet was the means
of the physical subjugation. Language was the means of the spiritual
subjugation” (1130).
12 Thomas Babington Macaulay, Minute on Law and Education, quoted in
Edward Said, The World, the Text and the Critic (London: Faber, 1983) 12.
13 Charles Taylor, “The Politics of Recognition,” Multiculturalism, ed. Amy
Gutman (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1994) 25-73.
14 Taylor, 73.
Postcolonial Criticism and Multiculturalism 241
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 241
15 The following is a powerful statement, made in 1998, about the variety
of topics covered by the term “postcolonial criticism,” as well as the
variety of approaches to those topics:
“Postcolonial criticism is in a state of disarray. Since the field was
opened up by Edward Said’s Orientalism (1978), the debate has been so
volatile that no consensus has emerged about the proper objects of
enquiry or who is qualified to undertake it. Should criticism seek to
show how the classics of the West are implicated in imperialism, or con-
centrate on ‘third-world’ texts? Can it be dispassionate, or must it be
committed to ‘decolonizing the mind’? Either way, is it possible for
European scholars to write about African or Asian literature without
engaging in neo-imperialistic appropriation? Such migrant intellectuals
as Gayatri Spivak and Homi Bhabha might seem free of these perplexi-
ties, but their investment in French theory has exposed them to the
charge of seeking prestige in the West at the expense of the value sys-
tems which hold in the societies which they scrutinize. Overall, the sus-
picion grows that, as postcolonial criticism acquires the international
reach which it needs if it is to understand the workings of empire, it
risks losing touch with the disadvantaged communities of the develop-
ing world.” John Kerrigan, “Against Hybridism,” Times Literary Supple-
ment, 21 Aug. 1998.
16 Said, 311.
Questions to help you check your understanding of this chapter
1 Can you explain why a colonizing power (such as the British in India in
the nineteenth century) is likely to degrade and dehumanize the indige-
nous population?
2 Why might the most powerful native people in the colonized country
side with the colonizers rather than with their own people?
3 When you encounter a foreign culture that is very different from your
own, what are three different ways in which you might respond to that
culture?
4 In a multicultural society, is there any way to determine that one culture
is superior to the others?
Suggestions for further reading
Bill Ashcroft, Gareth Griffiths, and Helen Tiffin, The Empire Writes Back: The-
ory and Practice in Post-Colonial Literatures (London and New York: Rout-
ledge, 1989). This book contains clear discussions of many of the main
issues in postcolonial criticism.
Frantz Fanon, The Wretched of the Earth, trans. Constance Farrington (New
York: Grove Press, 1966), first published in French as Les damnés de la terre
242 Standpoint Groups
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 242
(Paris: Maspero, 1961). This is a passionate appeal for understanding,
and a very powerful presentation of the plight of colonized peoples. It
has a preface by Jean-Paul Sartre.
Edward Said, Orientalism (London: Routledge and Kegan Paul, 1978).
—–. Culture and Imperialism (London: Vintage, 1994). This is a rich and
complex work, with chapters on European authors (Conrad, Camus,
Austen) as well as a discussion of postcolonial nations. Said’s main point
is that European imperialism had its effects not just through economic
and political means, but also through vehicles of culture, such as litera-
ture. One result of this is that European literature is deeply marked by
the colonial project.
Charles Taylor, “The Politics of Recognition,” Multiculturalism, ed. Amy Gut-
man (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1994), 25-73. This is a
clear and forceful essay by a philosopher, with a number of references to
the politics of the independence movement in Quebec.
Postcolonial Criticism and Multiculturalism 243
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 243
244 Standpoint Groups
ch16.qxd 17/03/2007 11:44 AM Page 244
PART FOUR
Summing Up and Looking Forward
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 245
ch17-pt4.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 245
246 Preparing to Encounter Literary Theory
ch17-pt4.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 246
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
Conclusion: Resituating Authority
I knew too well from experience that it was
impossible to find in the external world that which
was actually located within myself.
—Marcel Proust, Le temps retrouvé
As we approach the end of this book, it is time to ask two important
questions: where does the search for authority leads us, and what role
can literary theory play in this process? A fundamental assumption of
this book is that in the long run it is desirable that learners become
masters—that is, as in psychoanalysis and tennis, the job of the
teacher is to make himself or herself unnecessary. In other words, as
learning progresses, the authority of the teacher gradually comes to
be possessed by the student to some degree. This process is compli-
cated in the case of a student of literature by the existence of differ-
ent and incommensurable critical paradigms—one of the main
themes of this book. Marxists and feminists (to take two examples)
live in different worlds, and when they read the same book, they see
different objects. Who is right? Who speaks with authority?
T.S. Eliot, the master of modernism
To illuminate the problem of the existence of different critical para-
digms, I would like to propose an analogy: the career of T.S. Eliot.
A defining feature of high modernism in literature, as it emerged
in the years following the First World War, was an acute awareness of
differing and conflicting cultural paradigms. In the nineteenth cen-
tury Matthew Arnold was able to refer confidently to “the best that
has been thought and said,” but the modernists knew that the assur-
ance behind this phrase felt hollow in a world where culture was not
one harmonious whole, but was fragmented along national lines.
“The best” recognized in Germany or Russia was different from “the
best” cherished by the English or the French.
T.S. Eliot, the poet who gave quintessential expression to high
modernism in The Waste Land, became the master of this situation.
Born and raised in St. Louis, Missouri, Eliot did not find the author-
ity he needed or wanted in the American Midwest, or even at Har-
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 247
247
ch17-pt4.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 247
vard. But because he was an American who settled in England, he was
able to approach the culture of Europe as an outsider, with no estab-
lished commitment to any of the national cultures. As a result, he
had a kind of access to English, French, Italian, and German litera-
ture that was not available to most Englishmen. He acquired an
unequalled authority as a spokesman for European modernism
partly because he went beyond the national boundaries that effec-
tively contained most Europeans. But it is also clear from his poetry
that his ultimate authority was achieved at the price of passing
through painful stages of homelessness, rootlessness, and depres-
sion, in which he searched in vain, within himself and in the world,
for sources of value, meaning, and authority. Leaving one’s own con-
text can be liberating and stimulating, but also very challenging, and
possibly dangerous.
Eliot chose to move away from his home, into a world with several
paradigms, and the problems which this involved. If we draw a paral-
lel with the experience of a student of literature today, one differ-
ence is that the student can hardly escape being taught in several dif-
ferent paradigms, due to the differences in the professors’
paradigms. He or she is forced into a complex, multi-paradigm world,
which is often confusing and frustrating. One of the benefits of study-
ing literary theory is that it allows everyone to recognize this complex
situation, and to some extent literary theory demystifies it. Through
literary theory students can come to understand the complex world
of literary studies, including the variety of paradigms espoused within
their departments.
We can now turn to the first problem, the transfer of authority
from the professor to the student.
A theory of the search for authority
The first three of Vico’s four stages can help us in drawing a map for
the search for authority. As we approach this subject, it is worth not-
ing that it forms the theme of many works of literature, and especially
the form known as the Bildungsroman, the story of a young person’s
education, or formation, in the French sense. Wordsworth’s Prelude
and Proust’s À la recherche du temps perdu are two cases in point.
We can imagine a time before authority seems necessary, when our
spontaneous feelings by themselves carry us forward in the direction
we want. This is reminiscent of the Garden of Eden, of falling in love,
and of the newborn infant happily nestled in his or her mother’s arms.
There is a fusion with the outside world that makes authority un-
necessary. Wordsworth describes this fusion in Book 1 of The Prelude:
248 Summing Up and Looking Forward
ch17-pt4.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 248
Blest the infant Babe,
(For with my best conjecture I would trace
Our Being’s earthly progress,) blest the Babe,
Nursed in his Mother’s arms, who sinks to sleep
Rocked on his Mother’s breast; who with his soul
Drinks in the feelings of his Mother’s eye!
For him, in one dear Presence, there exists
A virtue which irradiates and exalts
Objects through widest intercourse of sense.
No outcast he, bewildered and depressed:
Along his infant veins are interfused
The gravitation and the filial bond
Of nature that connect him with the world.1
Marcel Proust describes a similar scene, and, although it does not
involve an infant, it too is a scene of feeding. As a mature man, Proust
drinks a spoonful of tea with crumbs of cake mixed in it; the taste is
so particular and unusual that it has the effect of re-immersing him
in a moment of childhood, when his aunt used to give him just that
particular mixture. The result is something like a mystic experience:
At the very moment at which the mouthful of tea mixed with
crumbs touched my palate, I shuddered, struck by the amazing
feelings I had within me. A delicious pleasure had invaded me, and
because of its isolation I had no idea what had caused it. Suddenly
it made the vicissitudes of life insignificant, its disasters harmless,
its briefness an illusion, in the same way that love affects us, by fill-
ing me with a precious essence: or rather this essence wasn’t in me,
it was me. I no longer felt mediocre, contingent, or mortal.2
Such presentations of infancy, of mysticism, of the bliss of love or
merging with another, are powerful and attractive, and can be moti-
vating at a deep and perhaps unconscious level. Freud says that the
child’s earliest relation to his or her mother sets the pattern for all
future joys, and Proust’s experience of la mémoire involontaire when
drinking the spoonful of tea was crucial to the writing of his fifteen-
volume novel. But these experiences do not seem to help in working
out our conscious relations with people and institutions in the exter-
nal world, and one reason for this is that there is no provision for
authority.
I want to present a very brief and schematic account of how
authority can enter into this scene, so that we can then talk about a
similar process that can occur in our experience of literature. At
Conclusion: Resituating Authority 249
ch17-pt4.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 249
some point the infant begins to realize that she is separate from her
mother, and instinctively knows that survival depends on maintain-
ing the relationship with her. Parents have overwhelming authority:
they move like giants through an apparently magical and danger-
ous world, driving cars, earning money, presiding over PTA meet-
ings, and engaging in conflict. The child depends on the support of
her parents, and, to keep it, she has to comply to some extent with
the rules or guidelines laid down by the parents. This phase has
many of the qualities of Vico’s stage 2, when the individual is learn-
ing about how an institution functions, what its rules are, and who
is in charge.
We can now look at an analogous process in two areas related to
learning about literature: the reading of books, and the relation to
professors. I have already alluded to the stage 1 entrancement cer-
tain readers might have with Boris Pasternak as the author of Dr
Zhivago. This could be a passionate identification in which the reader
is unable to draw a clear line between himself and the author (as in
the relation between infant and mother). The author’s truth is the
reader’s truth. Usually this does not last forever, and the reader
moves on to a new phase, in which he is aware that there are differ-
ences between himself and Pasternak. This could lead to a desire sim-
ply to be near Pasternak, literally or metaphorically; he might feel he
had gained a degree of authority by meeting some of Pasternak’s rel-
atives in Oxford, or by learning about his life. This relationship
might be called metonymic (which is appropriate for stage 2), since
it is based on being in contact with some things which were in physi-
cal contact with Pasternak. Or our reader might try to imitate Paster-
nak’s life—he might cultivate a similarly wide range of interests, or
try to write nature poetry. In this process, he might feel he came to
understand better the reality of what Pasternak did in his life, and
find it less mysterious and less exalted.
How a person shifts from the second stage of learning about
authority to the third stage of possessing authority is mysterious. It
does seem clear, however, that as you come to know more about the
authority you admire, and as you discover you can do some of the
things he is able to do, the feeling of the magic in what he is able to
do is reduced. The hierarchical aspect of the relationship is likely to
seem diminished, and some of the shortcomings of the master may
become apparent.
Proust’s novel sheds some light on the nature of stage 3 in this
process, because the novel begins with him as a child, and some of
the child’s experiences have a stage 1 quality, both when they occur
and when they are fully remembered. The novel ends with Proust,
250 Summing Up and Looking Forward
ch17-pt4.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 250
the author, ready to begin writing, with an overall idea of what he
hopes to accomplish. One key element in what has happened to him
in the interim is that art, and the goal of the artist, have become
demystified. He says that
• The authority of great art lies in its ability to pierce through social
conventions to reach a hidden reality beneath;
• the work of art is not so much a creation as a translation of the
artist’s inner life into an external physical medium, such as the
written word;
• we all possess this inner life, and what is unusual about the artist is
the kind of attention he pays to it; and
• the distinction between the writer and the reader is not of great sig-
nificance, because “... in reality, each reader, when he reads, is the
reader of himself. The work of literature produced by the writer is
only a kind of optical instrument which he offers to the reader in
order to allow him to discern that within himself which, without
this work of art, he might never have seen.”3
A good deal of Proust’s novel is concerned with the nature and the
value of art—especially literature, music, and painting. As a young
man he idealizes artists. By the time he is ready to write his novel, this
aura has disappeared, and he sees himself as someone who can
assume the role of the artist. Simultaneously he sees that the artist is
much less unusual than he previously thought, because every person
is potentially an artist.
A similar pattern of the external becoming internal may be seen in
a student’s relations with his teachers and professors. At first what the
professor does may seem almost magical, and certainly mysterious
(students often say they are surprised by a professor’s ability to inter-
pret symbols, or awed by the extent of his reading). Academic success
usually depends on acquiring some of these skills, so the student may
come to resemble the professor in some ways. This is one area in
which literary theory is especially useful. You can acquire these skills
much more quickly if you can work out what critical paradigm the
professor is using. Literary theory raises this issue right away, and, in
doing so, it tends to demystify the process of working with literature.
Eventually the undergraduate student will gain some of the knowl-
edge and authority that the professor originally had. Some graduate
students will eventually replace the professor.
Our subject is the way in which a student with a growing mind re-
cognizes the authority of an admired master, and then gradually
(partly through imitation and additional learning) is able to acquire
Conclusion: Resituating Authority 251
ch17-pt4.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 251
that authority, and feel it within him- or herself. I would now like to
consider some other aspects of this process. When should it happen?
How quickly should it happen? What factors promote it? And what
limitations are there on it?
Some people object to the idea of teaching literary theory to
undergraduates because it demystifies authority too soon. Their
argument is based on the idea that for healthy growth, a student is
better off to accept the mysterious authority of both authors and pro-
fessors—that the student is liable to learn much more that way. Lit-
erary theory and demystification ought to come later, according to
this view. This may be true in the cases of particular students; but,
generally speaking, I think the early twenties are a good time to trans-
fer some of the authority from writers and professors to the students
themselves. In any case the psyche has its own safeguards: the student
who does not want authority demystified will probably put up effec-
tive defences against this process.
Ideally, authority migrates from the outside to the inside, as the
individual begins to live as an adult among other adults. The speed
of this process is variable, and different speeds will feel comfortable
for different people. Carl Jung describes how it happened to him
very abruptly:
I was taking the long road to school from Klein-Huningen, where
we lived, to Basel, when suddenly for a single moment I had the
overwhelming impression of having just emerged from a dense
cloud. I knew all at once: now I am myself ! It was as if a wall of mist
were at my back, and behind that wall there was not yet an “I.” But
at this moment I came upon myself. Previously I had existed, too, but
everything had merely happened to me. Now I happened to
myself. Now I knew: I am myself now, now I exist. Previously I had
been willed to do this and that; now I willed. This experience
seemed to me tremendously important and new: there was
“authority” in me.4
If this kind of experience happened too early and too completely, it
might close an individual off from new experiences and prevent her
from learning many worthwhile things. On the other hand, if this
process did not occur, an individual might learn a great deal, but have
difficulty putting what is known to effective use, because the centre,
or the self, might not be strong enough to take action in the world.
This process of internalizing authority often depends on uncon-
trollable factors, in particular the amount of attention a person gets.
A child whose parents listen to her attentively can acquire a strong
252 Summing Up and Looking Forward
ch17-pt4.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 252
sense of self early on in life, and later may be able to assume author-
ity with ease. A child whose parents cannot or will not listen may find
it very difficult to be comfortable while exercising authority. A simi-
lar dynamic can be seen in adult life. Knowing that people are lis-
tening to you and caring about what you say can make authority eas-
ier to handle. And of course there are limited supplies of attention
in the world. As the British psychiatrist David Smail says, “It helps to
be loved, but not many people are.”5 In his view, deprivation is the
norm rather than the exception.
The search for authority may be one that some people prefer not
to embark on. For those who do, a further qualification is in order.
The authority that is acquired may feel different from that which we
all observed in some of our best teachers, and felt in our most
beloved authors. In them it may have looked virtually effortless and
absolute. But it rarely feels like that from the inside, because doubts
and uncertainties remain for almost everyone; and any reasonable
person exercising authority in the real world must be aware of how
circumscribed his or her real power is, and how much it is shared
with others. The authority that is projected on another person seems
much more magical and complete than the authority that we assume
ourselves. That is why we rarely feel we have caught up with our par-
ents or our teachers.
The value of literary theory is that it helps us in our quest for matu-
rity and in our attempts to move beyond the locale where we grew up.
It helps us to enter into dialogue with others, and to recognize when
dialogue is impossible. It helps us to see that authority is a social con-
struction, that we all play a part in establishing it, and that it is poten-
tially accessible to us all.
If you are an undergraduate student, the encounter with literary
theory will almost certainly help you understand what is happening
in your various classes, which will doubtless involve different meth-
ods, approaches, and ideologies. It may also help you see what kind
of approach best suits your sensibility, your desires, and your experi-
ence of literature. But it would be a pity, in my opinion, to be content
to become a specialist in one chosen method (such as becoming a
new historicist), although that would be a legitimate first step. The
larger, more comprehensive goal is to become a literary critic : to
engage first-hand with works of literature, to deal with your
responses, and to make judgments that are your own, and therefore
original; and to make these public in some way—through teaching,
or writing, or simply communicating with friends.
To offer this possibility, I want to conclude with a recently written
poem, and ask the reader to think of ways to use the various methods
Conclusion: Resituating Authority 253
ch17-pt4.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 253
described in this book to explain and account for the qualities of the
poem. We began in Chapter 1 with “Kubla Khan,” one of the most
famous poems in English. We end with a poem by the Polish writer
Wislawa Szymborska—a poem that seems to follow on from
Coleridge’s lines, “And ’mid this tumult Kubla heard from far /
Ancestral voices prophesying war”:
After every war
someone has to clear up.
For things won’t find their right place
on their own.
Someone has to heave
the rubble to the roadsides
so the carts piled high with corpses
can pass by.
Photogenic it certainly isn’t;
and it takes years.
All the cameras have gone off
to other wars.
Those who knew
what this was all about
must make way for those
who know little, or less than a little,
or simply nothing.6
Naturally I am tempted to offer suggestions about how each of the
chapters in this book might illuminate this short, simple, but serious
text: how structuralists would examine the process of transformation
described, how Marxists might look at the long view of history it
takes, or how feminists might see this as a woman’s view of war. Any-
one who has read the rest of this book, and wants to take a reader-
response approach, will be able to make some guesses about why this
poem appeals to me, and why the last verse-paragraph is particularly
moving for me, evoking as it does the loss of knowledge and the
decay of culture that teachers try to counteract. But I leave this task
as the final exercise in this book for the reader, hoping that he or she
will find both pleasure and self-knowledge in the operation. They are
what really justify paying attention to literary theory.
254 Summing Up and Looking Forward
ch17-pt4.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 254
Notes
1 William Wordsworth, The Prelude (1850) 2.232-44, ed. Ernest de Selin-
court, rev. Helen Darbishire (Oxford University Press, 1959) 57.
2 Marcel Proust, À la recherche du temps perdu (Paris: Gallimard, 1987) I.44;
my translation.
3 Proust, III.895; my translation.
4 Gerhardt Wehr, Jung: A Biography, trans. David M. Weeks (Boston and
Halifax: Shambhala, 1987) 10.
5 David Smail, Illusion and Reality (London: Dent, 1984) 11.
6 Wislawa Szymborska, from “Beginning and End,” quoted by Norman
Davies in his Europe: A History (London: Pimlico, 1997) 1047-48.
Suggestions for further reading
A good novel that gives a fictional example of Freudian psychoanalysis is
The White Hotel by D.M. Thomas (New York: Viking, 1981). Freud’s New
Introductory Lectures on Psychoanalysis (Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1973) is
easy to read, as is Janet Malcolm’s Psychoanalysis: The Impossible Profession
(New York: Vintage, 1982). Irvin Yalom’s Love’s Executioner (New York: Basic
Books, 1989) gives fascinating accounts of ten cases in psychotherapy.
A novel that presents Jungian analysis is Robertson Davies’s The Manticore
(Harmondsworth: Penguin, [1972] 1976). Jung’s autobiography, Memories,
Dreams, Reflections, (New York: Vintage, 1961) presents many of his ideas.
Anthony Storr’s Jung (London: Fontana, 1973) is short and direct. John
Sanford’s The Invisible Partners (New York: Paulist Press, 1980) is a good
explanation of the contra-sexual archetypes in men and women: the anima
and the animus.
The idea of human growth through intense admiration of another per-
son is clearly described in Chapter 8 (“Identification and Projection”) of
Anthony Storr’s The Integrity of the Personality (Penguin, 1963). Related
issues are dealt with in his more recent Feet of Clay: Saints, Sinners, and Mad-
men: A Study of Gurus (New York: The Free Press, 1996).
Conclusion: Resituating Authority 255
ch17-pt4.qxd 09/04/2007 4:25 PM Page 255
EPILOGUE
Postmodernism: Problems and Solutions
The Short Twentieth Century ended in problems, for which nobody had, or
even claimed to have, solutions. As the citizens of the fin-de-siècle tapped
their way through the global fog that surrounded them, into the third millen-
nium, all they knew for certain was that an era of history had ended. They
knew very little else.
—Eric Hobsbawm
What is the spirit of our times, in the West, in the first decade of the
twenty-first century? How does our culture differ from that of the
1960s, or the roaring 20s, or the aestheticism of the 1890s? What
inheritance will we pass on to the generations to come? Questions
like these have often intrigued writers and thinkers, in spite of their
inherent complexity. It is difficult to make statements that are fair
and representative of something as huge and complex as “our cul-
ture.” But the attempt to define the present is worthwhile: it is an
important part of the search to find out who we are and what we may
become.
If we pay attention to the current debates about contemporary cul-
ture, the term most often used to identify avant-garde literature is
“postmodern.” Whether we like it or not, we live in what is often iden-
tified as “the postmodern period”; and it is fitting to conclude a book
about literary theory with a chapter on postmodernism, because the-
ory has played a central role in both the creation of postmodernism
and the defining of our times. Of course our present culture is not
exclusively postmodern. It is made up of many different strands of
thought, and postmodernism is one. Many of the others can be
traced to identifiable historical periods. Our democratic institutions
find their beginnings in the Greece of 2,500 years ago; the high value
we place on romantic love can be traced to the Middle Ages; the
prestige of science has its origins in the Enlightenment; and our fas-
cination with the workings of the unconscious mind became wide-
spread in the early years of the twentieth century. All four of these
traditions (as well as many others) are vitally alive today, and they
enrich our culture immeasurably. But postmodernism adds some-
thing identifiably new to this mixture.
It is worth pointing out that some people object to the words
“modernism” and “postmodernism” because they are inherently
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 256
256
epilogue.qxd 17/03/2007 12:10 PM Page 256
inappropriate: the word “modern” comes from the Latin word modo,
which means “just now.” The use of the word “modern” in literary
and intellectual history contradicts this meaning. The “modern
period” in British and American literature is generally taken to cover
the fifteen years running from the end of the First World War to
some point early in the 1930s, and its defining authors are Eliot,
Joyce, Woolf, Lawrence, and Faulkner. In intellectual history, “the
modern period” refers to the much longer era beginning with the
eighteenth-century Enlightenment and continuing today. What these
two movements have in common is that each searches for a founda-
tion, a general underlying cause, which would explain some of the
surface manifestations of life. Each searches for a unity lying behind
variety. This foundation may be universal reason, or some form of
myth, or a story about human progress. What is striking about post-
modernism is that it rejects this search for deep structures; it does
not seek unity or a shared ground for human culture. Instead it cel-
ebrates the diversity, contradiction, and variety that are so clearly
present on the surface of our collective life.
What does postmodernism feel like?
Postmodernism is difficult to grasp intellectually at first, so I would
like to begin by trying to evoke the feeling that it might engender in
an individual. I will do this with a setting, then with a fable, and
finally with an image. To begin with, imagine you are in the city cen-
tre of a large metropolis. Various ethnic communities border on an
area dominated by towering downtown skyscrapers. You are aware of
being surrounded by several different cultures. People who are obvi-
ously wealthy and stylish encounter others who are extremely poor.
The core feeling you may have (if you are an outsider) is one of
uncertainty, of floating between different languages and between dif-
ferent cultures—Chinese, Brazilian, Jamaican, and Anglo-Saxon.
There is no clear indication that one of them takes precedence over
the others; there is no dominant authority or set of rules. It is hard
to know what you might encounter next, or what kind of transaction
might be expected of you. It is difficult to know how to distinguish
between politeness, indifference, and hostility in the people around
you. You may be uncertain about the sex of some of the people who
surround you, and about how much power they wield. You may not
be able to tell if people are being honest and sincere or playing an
artificial role.
How would you feel in this setting? I imagine two opposite
responses. Many people would react to it with anxiety, and their first
Postmodernism: Problems and Solutions 257
epilogue.qxd 17/03/2007 12:10 PM Page 257
impulse might be to get back to some community that is more safe
and predictable, where they know what to expect. Many people feel
similarly disoriented and dismayed by postmodern works of litera-
ture: they contain such a mixture of styles, genres, and languages that
they can seem bewildering. Few people want to experience a world
that feels chaotic.
But a very different reaction to the postmodern setting is also
imaginable: you might feel enormously exhilarated by the variety and
the energy in this urban streetscape. New and strange images,
sounds, and smells would surround you. You would probably not feel
fenced in by others’ expectations; you might feel free; you would
(with some knowledge of your environment) be able to choose your
way of living to a degree that was unthinkable fifty years ago any-
where in North America. You could switch back and forth between
radically incompatible lifestyles. You could be speaking English one
moment, and Cantonese the next. The city could become a friendly
labyrinth, offering endless possibilities and strange new combina-
tions of experience. That might feel like a radical new liberation.
The maze of differences might also help you feel protected from the
dominating authority of the state. That too might be a relief, espe-
cially for someone who had lived under a totalitarian regime. Post-
modern literature also often offers the possibility of new and unusual
combinations, and a dissolution of the rules that govern many styles
or genres of writing. Some people are attracted to it because it feels
liberating to them.
A second approach to postmodernism can be found in the follow-
ing fable from John Fowles’s novel The Magus.1 It conveys the confu-
sion and bewilderment that a person can experience when the
authority he has trusted collapses, and he is left to make crucial
choices between incompatible assumptions about life:
 THE PRINCE AND THE MAGICIAN 
Once upon a time there was a young prince who believed in all things but
three. He did not believe in princesses, he did not believe in islands, he
did not believe in God. His father, the king, told him that such things did
not exist. As there were no princesses or islands in his father’s domains,
and no sign of God, the young prince believed his father. But then, one
day, the prince ran away from his palace. He came to the next land. There,
to his astonishment, from every coast he saw islands, and on these islands
strange and troubling creatures whom he dared not name. As he was
searching for a boat, a man in full evening dress approached him along
the shore.
258 Summing Up and Looking Forward
epilogue.qxd 17/03/2007 12:10 PM Page 258
“Are those real islands?” asked the prince.
“Of course they are real islands,” said the man in evening dress.
“And those strange and troubling creatures?”
“They are all genuine and authentic princesses.”
“Then God must also exist!” cried the prince.
“I am God,” replied the man in full evening dress, with a bow.
The young prince returned home as quickly as he could.
“So you are back,” said his father, the king.
“I have seen islands, I have seen princesses, I have seen God,” said the
prince reproachfully.
The king was unmoved.
“Neither real islands, nor real princesses, nor a real God, exist.”
“I saw them!”
“Tell me how God was dressed.”
“God was in full evening dress.”
“Were the sleeves of his coat rolled back?”
The prince remembered that they had been.
“That is the uniform of the magician. You have been deceived.”
At this, the prince returned to the next land, and went to the same shore,
where once again he came upon the man in full evening dress.
“My father, the king, has told me who you are,” said the young prince
indignantly. “You deceived me last time, but not again. Now I know that
those are not real islands and real princesses, because you are a magician.”
The man on the shore smiled.
“It is you who are deceived, my boy. In your father’s kingdom there are
many islands and many princesses. But you are under your father’s spell,
so you cannot see them.”
The prince returned pensively home. When he saw his father, he looked
him in the eyes.
“Father, is it true that you are not a real king, but only a magician?”
The king smiled, and rolled back his sleeves.
“Yes, my son, I am only a magician.”
“Then the man on the shore was God.”
“The man on the shore was another magician.”
“I must know the real truth, the truth beyond magic.”
“There is no truth beyond magic,” said the king.
The prince was full of sadness.
He said, “I will kill myself.”
The king by magic caused death to appear. Death stood in the door and
beckoned the prince. The prince shuddered. He remembered the beauti-
ful but unreal islands and the unreal but beautiful princesses.
“Very well,” he said. “I can bear it.”
“You see, my son,” said the king, “You too now begin to be a magician.”
Postmodernism: Problems and Solutions 259
epilogue.qxd 17/03/2007 12:10 PM Page 259
The postmodern quality of this fable lies in the uncertainty that the
prince experiences, and in the shifting frames for interpreting his
experience: Has he encountered God or a magician? Is his father a
king or a magician? Whom can he believe? This quality is increased
by the fable’s setting within the novel: the protagonist discovers it in
an underground bunker on a Greek island. It has been left behind
by the secret troupe of actors who have been employed to educate,
and at times dupe, him. He is deeply in love (and also very angry)
with one of the actresses from this troupe. But the fable has no iden-
tifiable author, and Nicholas cannot know if it is only an accident that
he has discovered it. It is a text without a discernible intention. Like
the prince in the fable, Nicholas is upset and confused. This kind of
confusion is a postmodern quality.
A third way to evoke the feeling of postmodernism involves the
image of a multicultural bazaar somewhere in the Middle East, a
space where merchants and hucksters set up their stalls to do busi-
ness with a diverse population. There is a variety of smells, foods, lan-
guages. Camels and horses are standing behind some of the stalls.
There is a lot of activity and excitement in the air. Carpets are on sale,
made by several different ethnic groups. Those who are knowledge-
able can tell where the carpets come from and how they were made.
The uninitiated, however, have trouble distinguishing a hand-woven
Persian carpet from an industrial copy. Likewise the quality and fair
price for olives, lamb, jewellery, yoghurt, and spices are not easy to
assess. Some shoppers seem to thrive on the process of bargaining,
questioning the quality of what is on offer and haggling over the
price. Different cultural groups stick together, but there is also inter-
action between them. The merchants come and go. No one finds a
home there; everyone retires to their own communities when the day
is over.
One feature shared by these three evocations of postmodernism
(the city centre, the fable, and the bazaar) is that there is no domi-
nating culture providing a “frame” for the events taking place. Each
is a site where there are contradictions and potential conflict, but this
makes room for differences to flourish. No one can say, absolutely,
what is “right” and what is “wrong.” This is a characteristic feature of
postmodern literature.
A contrast to postmodernism: the unity of a shared culture
Life feels very different when you are at home in your own culture:
you know what to expect, the rules are clearer, and you know whether
you can trust your neighbours. Postmodernists sometimes refer to
260 Summing Up and Looking Forward
epilogue.qxd 17/03/2007 12:10 PM Page 260
this kind of experience as one in which there is a shared grand nar-
rative. This narrative is a story that evokes a particular culture, tells
about the past, and predicts how the future will unfold. Usually it is
a story of hope, such as the biblical story of the Jews reaching the
Promised Land, which God had reserved for them, and where they
would flourish.
The two most powerful grand narratives in the Western world
today are those that tell the stories of the rise and spread of democ-
racy, and the development of science and technology. Both these sto-
ries became very important during the Enlightenment of the eigh-
teenth century, and they seemed to be confirmed (in politics) by the
American and French Revolutions, and (in science and technology)
by the success of the Industrial Revolution. They may seem to be fur-
ther justified in our own times by the disintegration of the Commu-
nist bloc in 1991, and by the many ways in which technology has
made our lives longer and more comfortable in the West during the
past two centuries.
It is worth pausing for a moment to reflect on the matrix in which
the Enlightenment began, because it resembles the postmodern con-
dition in some striking ways. Why did mathematics and the scientific
method gain enormous prestige in the eighteenth century? It was
precisely because, after centuries of superstition, they promised to
establish knowledge and culture on the basis of reason, and the veri-
fiable evidence of the senses. Instead of a myriad of local traditions,
customs, and privileges in politics, inherited from the medieval
period, a single common standard, accessible to everyone, would
apply. Instead of the hatred and conflict spawned by religious sects,
with their private, mystical revelations and their diverse historical
roots, the harmony of a universal rational outlook would be assured.
In the light of reason, the narrow, crooked byways of the past would
be swept away, and a new era of human happiness would dawn. In his
autobiographical epic, The Prelude, Wordsworth expressed the pas-
sionate excitement felt by many people at this time:
Bliss was it in that dawn to be alive,
But to be young was very heaven.
The European Enlightenment engendered powerful hopes for the
future of human society, partly due to the unity it was proposing.
Some would say that postmodernism represents the same sort of
“chaos” that the Enlightenment rescued us from.
There is an interesting disagreement now about whether the
Enlightenment project (of using reason and technology to make
Postmodernism: Problems and Solutions 261
epilogue.qxd 17/03/2007 12:10 PM Page 261
human beings happier in the world at large) is still valid and worth
pursuing, or whether we have entered a new period of history (the
postmodern period) when this project can no longer inspire us.
Those who have given up on this project say that the conditions
under which we live have changed so much that the project is under-
mined. They point to developments such as the internet, the ubiquity
of images (on television and in magazines, for instance), and the rise
of multinational corporations. All these developments make it much
harder for rational, unified control over events to be exercised.
Those who are still engaged in the Enlightenment project say that
there has not been a fundamental change. One prominent philoso-
pher, Richard Rorty, has said, “The utopian social hope which sprang
up in nineteenth century Europe is still the noblest imaginative cre-
ation of which we have record.”2 He feels that the chances of achiev-
ing a democratic utopia are poor, but, he adds, “There is no more
worthy project at hand; we have nothing better to do with our lives.”3
A grand narrative may exert its force in a general way as an ideo-
logy. But it can also be presented in a single book. A striking exam-
ple is the adventure novel by James Redfield published in 1992, The
Celestine Prophecy, which is focused on a fictional ancient manuscript
discovered in Peru.4 This text contains nine “insights” about human
experience, which, the book suggests, are of universal validity and
will occur to every person (who is open to growth) in the same
sequential order. The insights explain things such as the importance
of mystical peace, the process of individual character formation, and
the achievement of new modes of intense human interaction. This is
a grand narrative about the development of human consciousness,
claiming to be universal in its applicability, and infinite in the possi-
bilities it suggests. Its enormous commercial success at the time
(extended by many spin-off books concerned with applying the nine
insights) shows that this grand narrative was warmly received by many
readers.
Any grand narrative, whether it is that of The Celestine Prophecy or
the story of human progress implied by the Enlightenment project,
suggests a single frame of reference. In contrast, postmodernism
rejects the possibility of there being only one frame of reference, and
dismisses the idea that anyone can achieve authority by finding an
objective, God-like viewpoint, the “view from nowhere,” which would
guarantee that facts are correct and interpretations valid. According
to postmodernism, there is no absolute frame of reference; there are
only communities, each operating with its own paradigm. Each has
its own “standards of truth,” but those standards are valid only within
the community.
262 Summing Up and Looking Forward
epilogue.qxd 17/03/2007 12:10 PM Page 262
Postmodernism also questions the possibility of there being unity
in a shared local culture. It emphasizes instead the clashes between
interpretations that arise because a single event or text can be inter-
preted in conflicting ways if it is seen against the background of dif-
fering frames of reference. This is, I think, an important aspect of
most reflective people’s experience of contemporary life. Consider,
for instance, the radically different interpretations given to the
acquittal of O.J. Simpson in the most publicized trial of the 1990s in
North America. To many white people, there seemed to be incon-
trovertible evidence that Simpson murdered his wife. But to many
blacks, their experience of white police falsifying evidence made
them unable to believe the evidence that was presented.
Often the unity of a shared culture, even in a single locality, seems
a thing of the past.
Postmodernism and the weakening of shared public meaning
For the purpose of clarity, we might summarize the ways in which
postmodernism differs from modernism as follows:
1. Postmodernists reject the broad, general view, and focus on par-
ticular localities, which often seem like labyrinths in their com-
plexity.
2. They are hostile to grand narratives and the idea of human
progress that they imply.
3. They value the surface of things, and are suspicious of the search
for deep structures.
4. They mix different styles and genres (combining, for example,
realism and fantasy, or high and pop art); they ignore the rules
governing individual genres.
5. Postmodernists revel in irony, pastiche, and parody, and the
uncertainty and undecidability that these foster.
6. They tend to see signs as disconnected from the underlying real-
ity they refer to; words tend to float free, detached from what they
mean.
7. They accept the overload of information provided by the new
electronic technology. In postmodern culture, often many things
Postmodernism: Problems and Solutions 263
epilogue.qxd 17/03/2007 12:10 PM Page 263
are happening at once, and somehow the recipient takes in what
is necessary.
The conflict between modernism and postmodernism can be
described by using Vico’s four stages (which are described in Chap-
ter 9). It is the struggle, or at least the disagreement, between a stage
3 person (who feels she has penetrated beneath the surface of mod-
ern life and discovered its inherent properties) and a stage 4 person,
who has been much influenced by deconstruction, and “who greets
the absurd or meaningless confusion of contemporary existence with
a certain numbed or flippant indifference, favouring self-consciously
‘depthless’ works of literature.”5
This conflict is well illustrated by a novel, written in 1992 by
Gilbert Adair, entitled The Death of the Author.6 Its protagonist is a
depthless but intriguing character. As a young Frenchman living in
Paris during the Second World War, Léopold Sfax writes anti-Semitic
articles for a Nazi newspaper under a pseudonym. He does this partly
because he feels the Germans will win the war and dominate France
for the foreseeable future, but also because he cannot bear to stifle
his genius as an author: he wants to write and be recognized as a
writer, and the Nazis offered the main chance for publication in
occupied France. When the Germans lose the war, he emigrates to
the United States, and begins a career as a lecturer in comparative lit-
erature, hoping to leave his past, with its burden of guilt, behind him
for ever.
He acquires a wide reputation by becoming the chief spokesman
for an extreme form of deconstruction, and popularizing its theory
that no text can have a determinate meaning:
The more closely a text is studied the more insidiously it is drained
of sense or legibility, just as the more fixedly a word is stared at on
the page the more it too is drained of legibility or sense, striking
the increasingly bewildered eye as a mere weird disconnected
sequence of squiggles. Words are far older and fickler and more
experienced than the writers who suffer under the delusion that
they are “using” them. Words have been around. No one owns them,
no one can prescribe how they ought to be read, and most cer-
tainly not the author.
I proposed that, in every text, there would fatally arrive what I
called an aporia, a terminal impasse, a blank brick wall of impene-
trability, an ultimatum of indetermination, when its self-contradic-
tory meanings could no longer be permitted to coexist in harmony
and its fundamental “undecidability” would undermine for ever
the reader’s most fundamental presuppositions.7
264 Summing Up and Looking Forward
epilogue.qxd 17/03/2007 12:10 PM Page 264
This deconstructionist view is congenial to Sfax, because he can
use it to deny that the pro-Nazi articles he wrote during the war have
a definite meaning. His theory represents a complete disjunction
between literature and life; death, he suggests, is only the “misplaced
name for a linguistic predicament.”
But there is a danger: as he rises to academic stardom, it becomes
likely that someone will write his biography and reveal his ties to the
Nazis—a possibility he cannot bear to contemplate. Eventually one of
his graduate students, a beautiful young woman, embarks on this
project. She gets a major publisher to give her a substantial advance,
and plans to go to Paris to do her primary research on Sfax’s early
life. The book ends with three brutal deaths: a colleague of Sfax’s
and the beautiful graduate student are both murdered, and Sfax
apparently commits suicide.
Despite its bloody conclusion, this is a funny and clever book, espe-
cially for readers who can see how Sfax’s story is modelled on the
career of the late Paul de Man, a professor at Yale who had secretly col-
laborated with the Nazis and later became an eminent spokesman for
deconstruction. It presents a wryly exaggerated version of poststruc-
turalism, and creates a protagonist who is amoral, brilliant, sophisti-
cated, and believably self-contradictory. (One of his most characteris-
tic statements is that “English has always been for me a language to lie
in.”) After his death, Sfax speaks to us from beyond the grave:
Have I any posthumous last words? Not really. As I have discovered
to my disappointment, death is merely the displaced name for a
linguistic predicament, and I rather feel like asking for my money
back—as perhaps you do too, Reader, on closing this mendacious
and mischievous and meaningless book.
But is this book meaningless? Does it have a public meaning that
can be shared, in spite of the labyrinth of uncertainty created by its
protagonist, both through his theory and through the narrative of his
life? My answer will surprise no one who has read the rest of In Search
of Authority: the meaning of the book depends largely on the reader,
and the community in which he or she is reading. The book could be
seen as an amusing pastiche, a witty afternoon’s read for an audience
that knows about deconstruction. Or, on the other hand, it could be
viewed as an eminently moral tale: Sfax has the opportunity, in occu-
pied France, to lead an engaged, authentic life. Instead he betrays his
country and his culture repeatedly, and after the war he goes into
hiding to protect himself. But retribution comes in the end, caused
partly by his insatiable need to assert his own superiority to those
around him—in a word, his need for fame.
Postmodernism: Problems and Solutions 265
epilogue.qxd 17/03/2007 12:10 PM Page 265
The postmodern quality of this story can be found in the contra-
dictions in Sfax himself: he wants the adulation of his followers (and
he receives it), but he despises them; he is a teacher, but he has no
sense of community, either with his colleagues or his students; and he
promotes the idea that texts are meaningless, while being terrified
that the real meaning of texts he has written will come to light. Each
of these contradictions rests on the confusion about how communi-
ties achieve their coherence, a subject that postmodernists and
deconstructionists, like many stage 4 people, have trouble dealing
with adequately.8
Three strategies for dealing with the postmodern situation
How are we to live in the postmodern world? We are surrounded by
conflicting paradigms, clashing civilizations, differing languages. No
one stands outside; no one can be relied upon to take an objective
view of our situation in the world in the twenty-first century. This may
sound like a philosophical problem, but it is a practical one, too,
which can arise if you read imaginative literature. Proust explained
this well when he pointed out that each real artist creates his or her
own particular world, and each sends its own individual ray of light
to us. Because they are all fictional worlds, we can hold them in sus-
pension, and not decide between them. But if we take them as mod-
els for our own lives, and act on them, then we do need to choose
between them.
No doubt there are many strategies for dealing with the postmod-
ern situation, but three stand out for me as I come to the end of this
book. I identify them with Voltaire, Monty Python, and Richard
Rorty.
Voltaire’s strategy is presented at the end of Candide, his philo-
sophical fable about a young man encountering the chaos of the
eighteenth-century world, with its various civilizations, its wars, its
slavery, and its violence, all of which are interpreted by his tutor Pan-
gloss with a mindless optimism (“Tout est pour le mieux dans le meilleur
des mondes”).9 At the end of his adventures, which take him to South
America, Paraguay, Surinam, England, and Constantinople, Candide
settles down at home and observes, “Il faut cultiver notre jardin.”
Because this is a French garden, you may know that it is surrounded
by a high wall, to keep out robbers and trouble-makers. This is the
solution of the gated community. You live your small life as well as
you can, and try to be self-sufficient.
The Monty Python solution is much more open and much more
chaotic, and amounts to embracing the postmodern world with all its
266 Summing Up and Looking Forward
epilogue.qxd 17/03/2007 12:10 PM Page 266
contradictions. It is expressed in the song at the end of the film The
Meaning of Life.10 The first verse outlines the enormous dimensions
of our galaxy, and then continues:
The universe itself goes on expanding and expanding,
In all of the directions it can whiz,
As fast as it can go: the speed of light you know
Ten million miles a minute, and that’s the fastest speed there
is;
So remember when you’re feeling very small and insecure,
How amazingly unlikely was your birth,
And pray that there’s intelligent life somewhere up there in space,
Because there’s bugger all down here upon the earth.
This is a stage 4, cynical, amused attitude. Its main merits, in my view,
are its openness and its good humour. The person who sings these
words may be skating fast over thin ice, but at least he is not likely to
impose his values on you. But one significant absence in the Monty
Python outlook is its failure to take any account of human commu-
nities. Voltaire proposes a community, but it is small, protected, and
extremely limited. Can Voltaire and Monty Python be combined in
any way?
It may be clear to many of you that In Search of Authority is moti-
vated by a stage 3 urge toward making sense of life and the world in
general, and from this point of view it is possible to see a lot of value
in postmodernism without giving up on the stage 3 liking for coher-
ence, understanding, and meaning. Grand narratives are certainly
often oppressive, and leave out important details or counter-narra-
tives that don’t fit easily into the main story. For example, an enthu-
siastic history of the rise of the United States to world dominance
might easily neglect the fate of the native peoples in America, who
were badly treated by the invaders from the imperialistic European
civilizations. The postmodernist urge to include awkward details and
counter-traditions is a healthy one, as long as it doesn’t completely
undermine people’s sense of their own identity.
As I come to terms with the conflict between modernism and post-
modernism, my basic allegiances are with the modernist side, and so,
like an aspiring stage 3 person, I do not want to allow in a degree of
postmodernism that will dissolve my community, my language, or my
sense of self. Like the prince in Fowles’s fable, I think we need to live
with an awareness that the standards of our culture are constructed,
not natural or inevitable. If we want to avoid the unexamined life (as
Socrates proposes we should), we need to acknowledge our role in
Postmodernism: Problems and Solutions 267
epilogue.qxd 17/03/2007 12:10 PM Page 267
being members of a community that constructs and supports those
standards. Inside these communities, a shared public meaning for a
work of literature is possible, because there is a frame for interpreta-
tion. Working out the meaning can be fascinating. Discussion in a lit-
erature class can be precisely this process, occurring on a small but
very meaningful scale.
The third strategy for dealing with postmodernism I associate with
the name of Richard Rorty, the American pragmatist philosopher
and professor of comparative literature. It is late in the book to intro-
duce a new and significant figure, but I am doing so for two reasons.
The first is that I only discovered Rorty in 2006, during the last three
months of rewriting this book for the third edition. The second rea-
son is that I found it exciting to discover a philosopher who had come
to many of the same general conclusions I had reached on my own
while working in the field of literary studies. Rorty provides a philo-
sophical background, as it were, to some of my conclusions about
texts, interpretations, and authority. I hope that a brief exposition of
Rorty’s position will make mine feel more solid for the reader.
One of the chief preoccupations of Western philosophers from the
time of Plato and Aristotle until the middle of the nineteenth cen-
tury was to determine what is objectively real in the external world—
that is, to obtain absolute knowledge of reality, as opposed to mere
opinion, or subjective sensation, or “common sense” as accepted by
society. The hope was to discover “the one true account of how things
really are.” One of Plato’s goals was to discover “the reality behind
the appearances,” and his most famous image for expressing this is
the allegory of the cave.11
Pragmatists, such as John Dewey, William James, and Richard
Rorty, maintain that Plato’s goal is not achievable by human beings.
Like reader-response critics (who say that you cannot ever be sure
you have understood the real meaning of a work of literature, you
only know what individual readers think the meaning is), pragmatist
philosophers believe that we cannot settle conflicts by finding out
what is “objectively real,” because we can only see things from within
our own bodies, operating with our own language and our own cul-
tural paradigm. There is no external authority to tell us whose body
is “most objective,” or whose language and cultural paradigm best
captures reality. For these philosophers, humans cannot discover the
reality behind appearances. For a reader-response critic, humans
cannot discern the real meaning of a work of art.
Rorty is often called a postmodernist philosopher, because of the
radical openness of his attitude. It is consistent with his position that
he sees Kuhn as the most important philosopher of the second half
268 Summing Up and Looking Forward
epilogue.qxd 17/03/2007 12:10 PM Page 268
of the twentieth century (see Chapter 4), and that he greatly admires
Derrida for his sensitivity to how the language we speak affects what
we are able to see (see Chapter 8). He agrees with Darwin, that the
theory of evolution gives the best account of how we came to be
human, and that this theory does not indicate any final, objective
goal for human development. We cannot know exactly where we are
going, or what we may be able to do in the future.
In Chapter 12 (on new historicism) I used the example of a person
felling trees in a forest, so he can build a house for himself, and I
pointed out that this person needs only a limited amount of infor-
mation about his trees. He doesn’t need to know about their full
“reality”; he only needs to know that they will fulfil their function as
part of his house, and not warp or disintegrate. Pragmatists like Rorty
make a similar point about truth and reality: in constructing our
lives, as individuals and as members of a community, we don’t need
to know what is absolutely real; it is enough if we can find out what
will work, and what we agree on. So according to Rorty, the crucial
thing we need to do is not find out about “reality,” although it might
be helpful if we could. The crucial thing is to find agreement,
through discussion and debate, about our goals, and the best means
available of achieving them.12
What Rorty contributes to dealing with the postmodern problem
of the conflict between different paradigms or different cultures is
not a solution but an activity. That is, he does not think that a partic-
ular “right solution” exists, any more than an evolutionist thinks
there is a fixed goal toward which humans are evolving. So instead of
looking for the right solution, we sit down and discuss our common
goals and the means of achieving them, and see what we can agree
on.
The existence of literature is supported by a similar activity, as is
the interpretation of the most important works of literature. It is not
as though there were an ideal canon of great literature (or an ideal
method of interpretation) waiting to be discovered—and which, if we
were very intelligent, and devoted, and assiduous, we might find.
Instead there is the complex process by which we read new works,
from a variety of cultures, interpret them, talk about them, write
about them, and make our provisional selections of the works that we
think are most worthy of our attention. This is how literature lives.
This activity has, indeed, been going on for centuries; but we will do
it more effectively if we realize what we are doing. Literary theory
helps us see what is really happening. Postmodernism helps us
recognize that no final goal is in sight.
Postmodernism: Problems and Solutions 269
epilogue.qxd 17/03/2007 12:10 PM Page 269
Notes
1 John Fowles, The Magus, rev. ed. (New York: Dell, [1965] 1968) 560-62.
2 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and Social Hope (London: Penguin, 1999) 276.
3 Rorty, xiv. One important cultural critic who feels that the Enlighten-
ment project is outmoded is Fredric Jameson, an American Marxist; see
his “Postmodernism, or the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism,” in the
New Left Review, July-August 1984. Jean Baudrillard is a French critic
who feels our world has changed radically because of the proliferation
of images, and our ability to live our lives in a world of images, for
example through playing video games. See his L’échange symbolique et la
mort (Paris: Gallimard, 1976). I need to admit that I cannot judge the
importance in postmodernism of cultural changes which have occurred
in big-city living, since I have almost no experience of this way of life in
the last thirty years.
4 James Redfield, The Celestine Prophecy (New York: Warner, 1992).
5 Chris Baldick, “Postmodernism,” The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Literary
Terms (Oxford University Press, 1990) 175.
6 Gilbert Adair, The Death of the Author (London: Heinemann, 1992). The
subsequent quotations are taken from pages 26, 27-28, 29, 45, and 135.
7 This is a good expression of a deconstructionist’s scepticism about the
value of reading. But if every work inevitably leads to an aporia for the
reader, why would one go on reading?
8 In The Age of Extremes: The Short Twentieth Century, 1914-1991 (London:
Michael Joseph, 1994), Eric Hobsbawm says: “What postmodernism
produced was ... a (largely generational) gap between those who were
repelled by what they saw as the nihilist frivolity of the new mode, and
those who thought that taking the arts seriously was just one more relic
of the obsolete past” (516).
9 Voltaire, Candide (New York: Modern Library, 2005).
10 The Meaning of Life, dir. Terry Jones and Terry Gilliam (Universal Pic-
tures, 1983).
11 For a good layman’s explanation of Plato’s allegory of the cave, see
Robert Hellenga’s novel Philosophy Made Simple (New York: Little Brown,
2006) 10-12.
12 Rorty’s opinion about the worthiest goals is based on utilitarianism: he
wants to produce the greatest happiness for the greatest possible num-
ber of people. And to achieve this, he finds the best method is liberal
democracy. In maintaining this goal and this method, it is important to
note that Rorty is not an absolutist. There are many other candidates
for goals, and systems of government. Nazism, and radical Islam, are
other possibilities, and no one can say that they are demonstrably worse
in an absolute sense, although most people might agree that they are
less likely to lead to general human happiness.
270 Summing Up and Looking Forward
epilogue.qxd 17/03/2007 12:10 PM Page 270
Suggestions for further reading
Terry Eagleton, “Capitalism, Modernism, and Postmodernism,” in Against
the Grain: Selected Essays, 1975-1985 (London: Verso, 1986), reprinted in
Modern Criticism and Theory: A Reader, 2nd edition, ed. David Lodge and
Nigel Wood (New York: Pearson, 2000) 361-73.
Ihab Hassan, The Postmodern Turn: Essays in Postmodern Theory and Culture
(Columbus: Ohio State University Press, 1987).
Linda Hutcheon, A Poetics of Postmodernism: History, Theory, Fiction (New
York: Routledge, 1988).
—–. The Politics of Postmodernism (New York: Routledge, 1989).
David Lodge, “Modernism, Antimodernism and Postmodernism,” in Work-
ing with Structuralism (London: Routledge and Kegan Paul, 1981).
Richard Rorty, “The Inspirational Value of Great Works of Literature,” in
Achieving Our Century: Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century America (Cam-
bridge, MA: Harvard UP, 1999), reprinted in Everyday Theory: A Contempo-
rary Reader, eds. Becky McLaughlin and Bob Coleman (New York: Pear-
son / Longman, 2005) 147-54.
—–. Philosophy and Social Hope (London: Penguin, 1999).
Postmodernism: Problems and Solutions 271
epilogue.qxd 17/03/2007 12:10 PM Page 271
272 Summing Up and Looking Forward
epilogue.qxd 17/03/2007 12:10 PM Page 272
INDEX
Why Study Literary Theory Now? 273
273
À la recherche du temps perdu 77, 248,
250
absolute truth 123, 144
Achebe, Chinua 234
actant 165
Adair, Gilbert 264
aestheticism 223
Algerian War of Independence 229,
241
allegory 112
Ambassadors, The 164
analepsis 163
Animal Farm 112
Anna Karenina 46, 64, 142, 211,
223
Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz, The
111
Arnold, Matthew
Arrow of God 234-37
Atwood, Margaret 211
Auden, W.H. 114
Austen, Jane 211, 237
author-centred criticism 44, 209
Bakhtin, Mikhail 59-61
Balmary, Marie 240
Balzac, Honoré de 115, 165, 221
Barthes, Roland 17, 18, 22, 24, 26,
27, 29, 53, 77, 119, 154, 160, 183
Baudrillard, Jean 270
Beardsley, Monroe 90
Benjamin, Walter 219
Berlin, Isaiah 150
Bildungsroman 248
binary oppositions 123, 130
Biographia Literaria 86, 89
Blake,William 138, 224
Bleich, David 188-191
Bloom, Harold 138, 141
Bly, Robert 205
Boswell, James 187
Brecht, Bertolt 21, 48, 156
Brooks, Cleanth 90
Burke, Kenneth 58
Butler, Judith 204, 207
Camus, Albert 129, 237
Candide 266
canon-formation 48-51, 228
Capital 216
catalytic material 164
Celestine Prophecy, The 262
Cixous, Hélène 209
Coleridge, Samuel Taylor 24, 25,
36-40, 86, 89, 102, 138, 141, 161,
164
Collingwood, R.G. 62
community 67
Conrad, Joseph 149, 161, 165, 211,
227
Copernicus 72
Critical Inquiry 16
Culler, Jonathan 134
cultual materialism 181
cultural studies 14
Culture and Imperialism 236, 237,
240
Da Vinci Code, The 165
Davies, Robertson 103, 120, 255
de Man, Paul 265
Death of the Author, The 264-66
deconstruction 13, 19, 90, 119-34
demystification 157, 223
demythologization 156
Derrida, Jacques 19, 124-29, 269
determinism 22
diachronic relationships 97
dialogism 59-61
dialogue 55-61, 68
Dickens, Charles 10, 111
Dickstein, Morris 30
index.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 273
274 Index
discourse 162, 163
Diviners, The 153, 168
Dollimore, Jonathan 181
Donoghue, Denis 158
Double Helix, The 70
double-voiced words 62
Dr Faustus 112
Dr Zhivago 149, 222, 250
Dürer, Albrecht 56
Eagleton, Terry 53, 87, 222
Easthope, Anthony 18
ecocriticism 199
Eliot, T.S. 144, 247
Ellis, John M. 26, 52, 179
Empson, William 56
Enlightenment 257, 261
essentialism 203
fabula 162
Fall of a Sparrow, The 89, 160, 167,
168, 210
Fanon, Frantz 228
fantasy-building 186
Feminine Mystique, The 204
feminism 200-03
feminist criticism 199, 200-05
fetishist reading 184
Fifth Business 120-22
Fish, Stanley 81, 181, 192
Five Readers Reading 185
focalization 164
Forster, E.M. 60
Foucault, Michel 171, 174
Fowles, John 31, 79-81, 133, 168,
258
France 17, 18, 28
French Lieutenant’s Woman, The 31,
79-81, 100, 143, 143, 168, 205
Freud, Sigmund 24, 120, 186, 187,
255
Friedan, Betty 204
Frost, Robert 185
Frye, Northrop 25, 138, 141
Galileo 72
gender vs. sex 202
gender stereotypes 200-05
Genette, Gérard 163, 169
Gilligan, Carol 202
Gold, Joseph 195
Good Samaritan (parable) 158
Graff, Gerald 150
grand narrative 261, 267
Great Expectations 10, 111
green studies 199
Greenblatt, Stephen 174-79, 180
Greimas, A.J. 165
Gross, John 15
Hamlet 23, 66, 78, 83, 85, 140, 166
Hardy, Thomas 165
Harland, Richard 30
Harlequin romance 156
Hassan, Ihab 271
Heart of Darkness 148, 149, 227
Hellenga, Robert 89, 160, 167,
210
helper (in narratology) 166
Hemans, Felicia 50
Henry IV, Part One 166, 173
Hesse, Herman 153
hinge events 164
historical linguistics 96
historical criticism 38, 83-86, 93
historicism 23
Hobbit, The 149, 152, 153
Hobsbawm, Eric 256, 270
Holland, Norman 31, 184-88
Homer 210
homosocial bonding 206
“horizontal” relations 114
humanism 104, 144, 221
Hutcheon, Linda 271
hybridism 242
hybridization 234
identity theme 185
ideology 40-43, 52, 103, 105, 121,
173, 176, 220
Ignatieff, Michael 180
Iliad, The 111, 210
index.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 274
Index 275
Illusion and Reality: The Meaning of
Anxiety 31, 69
In a Different Voice 202
interpretation 76-81, 105, 126
Ireland 236
irony 144
Is There a Text in This Class? 192
James, Henry 164
Jameson, Fredric 226, 270
Jewel in the Crown, The 94-96, 222
Johnson, Robert A. 52
Joyce, James 14, 115, 116, 153, 221
Jung, Carl 24, 65, 120, 212, 252
Keats, John 102
Kermode, Frank 17, 19, 26, 30, 31,
90
King Lear 178
Kristeva, Julia 209
Kuhn, Thomas 27, 71-79, 192, 268
Kundera, Milan 130-32
Lacan, Jacques 25, 31
langue 98
“Laugh of the Medusa, The” 209
Laurence, Margaret 153, 168
Lawrence, D.H. 57, 111
Leavis, F.R. and Q.D. 87, 138
Lewis, C.S. 158
liberal humanism 104, 144, 221
Life after Theory 19
Life of Galileo, The 156
linguistics 96-98, 107-09
Lodge, David 19, 56, 114
logosphere 60
London Review of Books 23, 30
Lukács, Georg 222
Macaulay, Thomas Babington 238
Macbeth 166
MacLennan, Hugh 161, 210
Magus, The 258
Malcolm, Janet 255
Mann, Thomas 112, 206
Mansfield Park 237
Manticore, The 103, 255
Marx, Karl 216-19
Marxism 106
Marxist criticism 199, 216-25
Meaning of Life, The 267
“Meditations in Time of Civil War”
12
Merchant of Venice, The 172
metaphor 112, 113-16, 141
Metaphysics as a Guide to Morals 133
mind, pradigms for 74
minds, syntagmatic vs. paradigmatic
109
modernism 247, 256, 264, 267
moine et la psychanalyste, Le 240
monologism 60
monologue 54
multiculturalism 228, 237-40
Murdoch, Iris 133
myth 152
Mythologies 154
narratee 161, 211
Narrative Discourse 169
narratology 160-70, 173
narrator 161
new historicism 171-81
new criticism 86-89, 93, 177
New York Review of Books 12, 23, 30
Norris, Christopher 124
object (in narratology) 166
obsession 111
Odyssey, The 111, 115
open ending 101
opponent (in narratology) 166
organic unity 86
Orientalism 231
Orwell, George 112
Othello 174
“other”, the 231-37
Outsider, The 129, 237
paradigm conflict 71-79
paradigm change 13, 71-73
paradigmatic relations 107-18
index.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 275
276 Index
parole 98
Passage to India, A 60, 237
Pasternak, Boris 149, 250
patriarchal order, the 200, 208
Père Goriot 115, 221
performativity 207
Phaedrus 125
phonocentrism 125
Picard, Raymond 30
Pirsig, Robert 57, 156, 224
Plato 56, 125, 268
Pleasure of the Text, The 26, 183
Poetic Process 159
Political Unconscious, The 226
polylogue 58
Poovey, Mary 90
Popper, Karl 65
Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man,
A 14, 116, 153, 221
postcolonial criticism 199, 227-
43
postmodernism 101, 256-69
poststructuralism 22
Pound, Ezra 21
practical criticism 86-89
Prelude, The 23, 77, 147, 148, 167,
248, 261
Pride and Prejudice 211
problem of approaches 40
process vs. content 51
Professing Literature 150
projection 65
prolepsis 163
Propp, Vladimir 102
Proust, Marcel 163, 248, 249
psychoanalysis 100, 103, 145
Psychoanalysis: The Impossible Profes-
sion 255
queer theory 206
reader-centred criticism 44
reader-response criticism 10, 39,
182-95
receiver (in narratology) 166
Redfield, James 262
Reflecting Men at Twice Their Normal
Size 213
relational identity 107
relativism 75
Renaissance Self-Fashioning 181
revelation 10
revolutionary science 72
“Rhythm of Education, The” 151
Richards, I.A. 86
Richler, Mordecai 111
ricorso 145
“Rime of the Ancient Mariner,
The” 161, 164
Rorty, Richard 20, 71, 262, 268
Russian Revolution 154
Ryan, Michael 225
S/Z 169
Said, Edward 231, 236
Sainte-Beuve, Pierre Augustin 84
Sanford, John 255
Saussure, Ferdinand de 14, 93, 96-
97
Scar Tissue 180
scepticism (in deconstruction) 122
Scholes, Robert 106
Scott, Paul 94-96, 222
Sedgwick, Eve Kosofsky 206
self-knowledge 191
semiotic systems 126
sender (in narratology) 166
sex vs. gender 202
Shakespeare, William 178
Shakespearean Negotiations 181
“She Was a Phantom of Delight”
146
Shelley, Percy Bysshe 50-51
Siddhartha 153
Sinfield, Alan 181
Smail, David 31, 69, 253
Stendhal 102, 136
Storr, Anthony 255
structuralism 13, 18, 26, 89, 93-118,
119, 123, 143
Structure of Scientific Revolutions, The
27
index.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 276
Index 277
subject (in narratology) 166
Subjective Criticism 188-91
Superstructuralism 30
synchronic systems 97
synecdoche 142
syntagmatic relations 107-18
system of langauge 97-99
Szymborska, Wislawa 254
tabula rasa 74
Taylor, Charles 239
Tempest, The 148
text-centred criticism 44
Theory and Practice of Group Psy-
chotherapy, The 70
Theory’s Empire 9
Thiong’o, Ngugi wa 241
Thomas, D.M. 255
“Thorn, The” 165
Three Critics of the Enlightenment 150
Tiffin, Helen 242
Times Literary Supplement 12, 18
“Tintern Abbey” 77
Tolstoy, L.N. 12, 46, 136, 142, 223
transcendent texts 177
Twain, Mark 81
typology 48
Ulysses 115, 208
Unamuno, Miguel de 30
Unbearable Lightness of Being, The
130-33
Valéry, Paul 102, 182
van Gogh, Vincent 231-33
“vertical” relations 114
Vico, Giambattista 13, 135-51,
248
Voltaire 74, 266
War and Peace 12, 136, 211
“Waste Land, The” 144
Watch that Ends the Night, The 161,
167, 210
Watson, James 69
Whalley, George 25, 28, 159
White Hotel, The 148, 255
Whitehead, A.N. 151
Wimsatt, W.K. 90
Women in Love 57, 211
Woolf, Virginia 165
Wordsworth, Mary 156
Wordsworth, William 25, 77, 101,
102, 146, 147, 165, 167, 248,
261
Wretched of the Earth, The 228-31
writing vs. speech 127
Yalom, Irvin 70
Yeats, W.B. 12, 153
“Youth” 161
Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Mainte-
nance 57, 148, 156, 224
Zen Mind, Beginner’s Mind 11
index.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 277
278 Index
index.qxd 05/04/2007 4:14 PM Page 278
