TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:36 F: TSL5401.tex / p.16 (16)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
fects (‘postterminal aspects’) and indirectives in Turkic languages is discussed
in Chapter 12. A valid explanation for the connection between perfective or
past and evidentiality has been suggested by Comrie (1976:108): ‘the semantic
similarity (not, of course, identity) between perfect and inferential lies in the
fact that both categories present an event not in itself, but via its results’. This
link, however, is not universal. In Qiang the inferential sense of the suffix -k
is primary only for perfective actions. If an action is imperfective the primary
meaning of this suffix is mirative, and not inferential.
Evidentiality is often not distinguished in future, as is the case in Shipibo-
Konibo, Tariana and Qiang. And in Yukaghir, the combination of inferential
with a future marker has the epistemic meaning of ‘probably’.
In a number of languages, evidentiality marking is mutually exclusive with
mood and modality, as is the case in Abkhaz and in many Samoyede languages.
However, in Western Apache (§4.4 of Chapter 4), Jarawara and Tariana, mood
and modality markers can occur together with evidentials.
There can be restrictions or preferences for the cooccurrence of evidentials
with negation. In Mỹky, negation is mutually exclusive with reported and with
inferred. The majority of languages discussed in this volume show no such
restrictions.
Evidentiality systems often interact with the grammatical person of the
subject or experiencer. Cross-linguistically, there is a tendency to develop re-
strictions as to the use of first person with noneyewitness specifications in
two-term systems (both A1 and A2) and specifications other than visual in
larger systems. There may also be a preference for eyewitness in A1 and A2,
and visual in other systems to be used with first person. In Eastern Pomo,
the ‘direct’ evidential is more frequently used with first person than with third
person (Sally McLendon, p.c.). Evidentiality specifications other than eyewit-
ness (or visual/direct) tend to develop overtones of lack of control or non-
intentionality, when used with first person. Mỹky is quite remarkable in that
only the visual/nonvisual evidentials are never distinguished for first person,
in other words, the opposition between visually and nonvisually acquired in-
formation is neutralized for first person (but not for second or third person;
see Table 3 of Chapter 10).
Evidentials can have a special effect. In Eastern Pomo, no overt marker
of experiencer is permitted in clauses which include the nonvisual sensory
suffix (the experiencer of the action or state described is always the speaker)
(Chapter 5, §1).
Evidentials are hardly ever within the scope of negation (the only possible
example is that of Akha; see Egerod 1985). Neither can an evidential be ques-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:36 F: TSL5401.tex / p.17 (17)
Evidentiality in typological perspective 
tioned (as pointed out by LaPolla, §5 of Chapter 3). But evidentials can have
a time reference of their own, independent of that of the action or state of the
clause. This is illustrated with (26) and (28), from Western Apache (Chapter 4);
and (32–36) under §5.1 from Tariana (Chapter 6). The idea of ‘deferred real-
ization’, as illustrated for Yukaghir (§3 of Chapter 9), has to do with relative
time of inference with respect to the event: inference is always post factum. Ex-
amples of how to tell a lie in Tariana show how one can distinguish the truth
value of an evidential and of the actual event: example (13) in Chapter 6 shows
deliberate use of a wrong evidential, with the correct information; and (23)
illustrates false information accompanied by correct evidential. This demon-
strates the relative independence of evidentials – which behave, in a way, as
predications in their own right.
The choice of evidential marker used in evidential systems often depends
on clause type. A fair number of languages do not have any evidentials in
subordinate clauses; these include Abkhaz, Qiang, Eastern Pomo, Tariana and
Jarawara. This restriction is not universal – for instance, it does not apply in
Shipibo-Konibo. Many languages have no evidentials in commands – exam-
ples include Qiang, Eastern Pomo, Jarawara, Turkic languages and Yukaghir.
Other languages – like Shipibo-Konibo, Tariana and Northern Embera – have
a reduced set of evidentials in commands: typically, just reported (A3 system).
In quite a few languages evidentials are not used in questions – as is the
case in Western Apache and Abkhaz. In those languages where evidentials do
occur in questions, their use may have to do with the source of information the
speaker has. This is the case in Yukaghir (Chapter 9, §4.3), and Eastern Pomo –
for instance, one uses the nonvisual sensory evidential to ask about something
that was perceived with senses other than sight (as in examples (36) and (37)).
Indirective in Turkic languages can be used in questions asked on behalf of
someone else – similar to the use of reported evidentials in questions in Kham
(Watters 1998). Alternatively, evidentials in interrogative clauses may involve
assumptions about the source of knowledge of the hearer – this is the case in
Qiang, Jarawara and Tariana. Such assumptions may be considered daring, and
culturally inappropriate; this is why one avoids asking too many questions in
Tariana. Interestingly, the inferential -mein in content questions for Shipibo-
Konibo combines reference to the source of the knowledge of the speaker, and
of the addressee – see example (21) in Chapter 2. Evidentials in yes-no ques-
tions may have an additional overtone of politeness (see examples under (32),
Chapter 2). Evidentiality is the only grammatical category that allows one to
question, in an interrogative, the assumption of the speaker, of the addressee,
or of both.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:36 F: TSL5401.tex / p.18 (18)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
Evidentials play an important role in discourse. They are often manipu-
lated – typically for highlighting important aspects of a narrative. In Yukaghir,
a speaker may switch to the direct form (rather than inferential), to make the
story sound more vivid (example (29), Chapter 9). Friedman (§6 of Chapter 8)
provides numerous examples of how evidentials are deployed in political dis-
course in the Balkans. Similarly, evidentials in Turkic, and in Abkhaz, can be
used to animate the discourse; or as means of ‘distancing’ oneself from what is
being narrated. In Eastern Pomo, the direct evidential can be used at particu-
lar dramatic moments in narratives, ‘heightening’ a climactic event in a story
(§4 of Chapter 5). And the inferential evidential can be employed even if the
speaker had seen the event, as a way of distancing themself from something
unconventional and bizarre.
Evidentials often correlate with narrative genres. In Tariana and in Shipibo-
Konibo, reported evidentials are used to describe traditional knowledge. How-
ever, in Tariana and in Tucano inferred is used in stories which relate impor-
tant mythological events known to have left tangible traces in the surrounding
landscape (§7 of Chapter 6). The importance of evidentials is corroborated by
additional facts: Friedman (§9 of Chapter 8) reports that English – with no
grammatical evidentiality – is perceived as a ‘deficient’ language in this respect
by speakers of Turkic and of Balkan Slavic languages.
. Evidentiality strategies
Various grammatical categories can acquire an additional evidential-like mean-
ing as a ‘side effect’ without having ‘source of information’ as their primary
meaning (see discussion in Lazard 1999; Dendale 1993, and Kronning forth-
coming). Conditionals and other non-declarative moods often acquire over-
tones of uncertain information and of information taken from some other
source, for which the speaker takes no responsibility. This is the way various
authors characterized French ‘conditionnel d’information incertaine’. Similar
usage of conditionals in Romance languages has been described by Squartini
(2001). In Mangarayi (Australian: Merlan 1981:182), past irrealis forms are
used to convey information which the speaker cannot vouch for.
Past tense and perfective aspect in Turkic and in some Iranian and Tur-
kic languages can acquire additional meanings of ‘indirect experience’ (see
discussion in Chapter 11, of how ‘postterminal’ aspects are used in this way
in Turkic). Perfective and resultative participles may be extended to convey
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:36 F: TSL5401.tex / p.19 (19)
Evidentiality in typological perspective 
reported information in a number of Estonian dialects and in Livonian (see
Fernandez-Vest 1996; Laanest 1975:155).
Different complementizers (Noonan 1985) can express meanings related
to information source as well as the speaker’s degree of belief in – or degree
of commitment to – the proposition expressed in the sentential complements
of cognition verbs, as in Kinyarwanda (Givón & Kimenyi 1974). In English,
different complement clauses serve to distinguish an auditory and a hearsay
meaning of the verb hear. For example, I heard France beating Brazil implies
actual hearing while I heard that France beat Brazil implies hearsay (see Dixon
1991:218; and a discussion of similar examples by Noël 2001). A similar strat-
egy is found in Boumaa Fijian: here, the difference between clausal NP and ni
complement corresponds to the distinction between a firsthand and a hearsay
source of information (Dixon 1988:38).4
The term ‘evidentiality’, in the strict grammatical sense adopted here, is not
appropriate for these systems. One of the current misconceptions concerning
evidentiality is to do with a gratuitous extension of this term to cover every way
of expressing uncertainty, probability and one’s attitude to the information,
no matter whether it is expressed with grammatical or with lexical means; or
whether it is the primary meaning of a category or not, or talking of evidential-
ity in a ‘broad sense’ – by Chafe’s (1986:271) definition: as marking speaker’s
attitude towards his/her knowledge of reality as opposed to its ‘narrow sense’:
marking the source of such knowledge. This is unhelpful and quite uninfor-
mative. What is more, this approach obscures the status of evidentiality in lan-
guages which do have it as a grammatical category quite distinct from modality,
mood or tense; a selection of such languages is discussed in Chapters 2–11 of
this volume. Following this path, one can find evidentiality in English, and just
about every other language (cf. Fox 2001, and many others). This is similar to
how, a few years back, when ergativity was in ‘vogue’, languages which have
ambitransitive verbs of type S=O (e.g. English I broke the glass and The glass
broke) were analyzed as ‘ergative’ (see Dixon 1994:18–20).
Here is another analogy. Many languages of the world have genders (often
feminine and masculine, or animate and inanimate) realized by agreement, e.g.
French, Portuguese, and Iroquoian languages. Other languages do not – but
just about every language has some way of distinguishing males and females,
be it by pitch, or choice of words, or speech style (see Appendix 1 of Aikhenvald
2000), as happens in Turkish or Finnish. Saying that English, on the one hand,
and Qiang (or Shipibo-Konibo, or Tariana), on the other, have ‘evidentiality’, is
similar to saying that both Portuguese and Turkish have grammatical gender.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:36 F: TSL5401.tex / p.20 (20)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
What is and what is not an evidentiality strategy, is another matter.
Maslova, in §7 of Chapter 9, demonstrates that the resultative nominal in Yuk-
aghir shows only superficial similarity to an inferentialand in fact does not have
to do with information source at all. Along similar lines, epistemic modalities
in Tariana, with meanings of ‘possibly, whatever’ and so on, do not indicate the
source of information, and hence are not evidentiality strategies.
Evidentiality systems with several evidentiality distinctions – such as West-
ern Apache, Jarawara or Tariana – have hardly any evidentiality strategies, or
just a few. (See note 6 of Chapter 2, on a possible evidentiality strategy in
Shipibo-Konibo.) Epistemics in Qiang show some semantic overlap with the
inferential marker and hence could be considered an evidential strategy – see
the discussion in §4 of Chapter 3.
. Grammaticalization of evidentiality strategies,
and origins of evidentials
Grammaticalization of evidentiality strategies often results in the creation of
evidentiality systems. In his seminal contribution (Chapter 8), Friedman shows
how the languages of the Balkans – in particular, Macedonian and Albanian –
tend to grammaticalize erstwhile evidentiality strategies into obligatory cate-
gories – that is, ‘a meaning which is encoded into certain paradigms cannot be
avoided when those forms are used’.5
In both Macedonian and Albanian, evi-
dentials developed from past tense forms. In Macedonian, evidential meaning
subsequently extended to new paradigms, while Albanian has a separate set of
paradigms with an evidential meaning. Any grammaticalization process is best
viewed as a continuum: evidential forms in the Balkans occupy an intermedi-
ate place on this continuum, as opposed to systems discussed in Chapter 3–7,
9–12 where evidentials are grammatical categories in their own right.
Almost any evidentiality strategy may develop into an obligatory eviden-
tiality system. Typically a perfective or perfect-like tense carries an inferential
or noneyewitness specification. This path has been described for a number of
Caucasian and Finno-Ugric languages. Serebrjannikov (1960:59, 66) traces the
‘unobvious’ past back to plain perfect in both Komi and Mari. In Tadjik (Lazard
1996:29) a series of forms with noneyewitness meanings has developed out
of a perfect. We have no clear examples of such an origin for terms within
complex systems except for a possible scenario for Tuyuca which involves the
development of a nonvisual present marker from an older perfect aspect con-
struction (Malone 1988:132). The inferential marker in Abkhaz goes back to
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:36 F: TSL5401.tex / p.21 (21)
Evidentiality in typological perspective 
reanalyzed future markers (see §3 of Chapter 11). This development – quite
unusual cross-linguistically – may have to do with grammaticalization of an
erstwhile modal category employed as an evidential strategy. This is similar to
the developmentof the Daco-Romanian presumptive mood, and the probabili-
tive mood in the Novo Selo dialect (northwestern Bulgaria), from evidentiality
strategies to bona fide evidentials – according to Friedman (Chapter 8), they
now have source of evidence as their primary meaning.
Evidentials may develop out of participles or other nominalizations. In
Nenets (Décsy 1966:48; Perrot 1996), the noneyewitness (‘auditive’) forms
probably come from nominalizations. Lithuanian has two strategies used for
conveyingevidential meanings. Active participles are used for ‘reported’ action,
and neuter passive participles for the ‘inferential’ construction (see Grone-
meyer 1997:97–100, 102–106). An evidentiality system can develop as the re-
sult of reanalysis of a complementation strategy, that is, by a process of re-
analysis of a complement clause into a main clause. This grammaticalization
path for the reported in Estonian was suggested by Campbell (1991:285–290).
In complement clauses with speech act and mental state verbs containing
a main verb, et (complementizer), and verb-active participle, the verb-
active participle was reinterpreted as a finite verb form – traditionally called
Modus Obliquus – associated with ‘reported speech’; then the reinterpreted
verb-active participle came to be also employed in main clauses (see further
exemplification in Campbell 1991:286).6
Evidential markers often – but not always (pace Willett 1988) – go back to
grammaticalized verbs. The reported term often involves grammaticalization
of a verb of speech. In Qiang (Chapter 3), the hearsay marker is derived from
the verb ‘say’. In Lezgian (Haspelmath 1993), and in Tauya (MacDonald 1990)
the hearsay evidential comes from a depleted verb of speech. In Maricopa (Yu-
man: Gordon 1986) the eyewitness evidentiality suffix is homonymous with
the lexical verb ‘see’, and has undoubtedly developed from it. Nonvisual marker
-mha in Tariana could go back to the verb -hima ‘hear, feel’. And four of the
six evidentials in Western Apache come from verbs: the nonvisual experiential
comes from a passive verb ‘it is heard’, the non-mirative inferential is from ‘it
is sensed’. The physical inferential goes back to ‘look like, resemble’, while the
quotative comes from ‘say’.
Evidentiality is extremely prone to diffusion (what Johanson calls ‘code-
copying’); the emergence and loss of evidentiality systems is often due to in-
tensive language contact (see Aikhenvald & Dixon 1998b, for evidentiality and
its diffusion in Amazonia). Evidentials are a distinct areal feature of Caucasian
languages (see §5.4 of Chapter 11), as well as of the Balkans (Chapter 8). Ev-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:36 F: TSL5401.tex / p.22 (22)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
identials spread from Turkic into numerous non-Turkic languages of South-
western and Central Asia, Southeastern and Northeastern Europe, etc. (Chap-
ter 12:§17). Evidentials are considered an areal feature for a number of ar-
eas in North America (see Jacobsen 1986; Sherzer 1976). A clear-cut exam-
ple of calquing a whole system of obligatory evidentiality specification under
the impact of areal diffusion is found in Tariana, spoken in the multilingual
Vaupés area (Chapter 6; also Aikhenvald 2002). Emergent marking of eviden-
tiality is found in the contact language of the Vaupés, Brazilian Portuguese (§9
of Chapter 6).
Evidentials can also be lost as a result of language contact. As Johanson
points out in §17 of Chapter 12, a few Turkic languages only have evidential-
ity strategies, rather than bona fide evidentiality, under the influence of Indo-
European languages: examples are Azerbaijanian (influenced by Persian) and
Karaim (influenced by Lithuanian and Ukranian). Tucanoan languages spoken
outside the Vaupés area have a reduced system of evidentials. Retuarã, from
the Central Tucanoan subgroup, is spoken in Colombia, next to Yucuna, a lan-
guage from the North Arawak subgroup that lacks evidentials. Yucuna is the
dominant language in this region, with speakers of Retuarã also being bilin-
gual in it. As a result of Yucuna influence, Retuarã has drastically reduced its
system of evidentials (Aikhenvald 2002).
This extreme diffusability of evidentiality may have to do with its im-
portance for human cognition, and possibly also with diffusability of cultural
attitudes and stereotypes associated with evidentiality – see next section.
. Evidentiality and cultural attitudes
The choice of evidentials may correlate with cultural stereotypes and with at-
titudes to knowledge. In Tariana and in Shipibo-Konibo, shamans use visual
evidentials to relate their knowledge and supernatural experiences: these are
viewed as real. The perception of dreams in different cultures goes together
with different evidentials. In Jarawara (Chapter 7) descriptions of dreams are
cast in visual evidential since they are supposed to be ‘seen’. In Turkic languages
indirectives are not used in describing dreams; neither are any evidentials in
Qiang. In contrast, in Yukaghir dreams are cast in noneyewitness (see Jochel-
son 1905:400). In Tariana, dreams are normally cast in nonvisual since they are
not supposed to belong to the ‘real world’; and Shipibo-Konibo speakers em-
ploy the reportative -ronki when describing their own dreams. But prophetic
dreams of Shipibo-Konibo shamans are cast in visual (since shamans are omni-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:36 F: TSL5401.tex / p.23 (23)
Evidentiality in typological perspective 
scient); a similar usage of evidentials is found in other languages of the Vaupés
linguistic area (e.g. Gomez-Imbert 1986).
New insights into evidentials could be obtained from examining the ways
in which evidentials are used to describe emerging cultural practices. In Qiang,
reported is used for relating something seen on television (Randy LaPolla, p.c.),
while the Tariana use the visual evidential. Another newly introduced practice
is reading. In Shipibo-Konibo, the reported -ronki is used for information read
in a newspaper (similar usage in Quechua was reported by Floyd 1997:104).
Literate Tariana speakers tend to use inferred when retelling stories they have
just read, or when translating. We can offer a tentative explanation for this
difference. In Shipibo-Konibo and in Quechua reported does not have over-
tones of ‘unreliable’ information, which it does in Tariana. Inferred in Tariana
does not have any epistemic connotation and can therefore be safely used for
information transmission.
In languages with grammatical evidentiality it is not appropriate to be
vague about one’s source of information (see Chapter 6, and also §8 of Chapter
13). This attitude to information may correlate with the fact that in Amazonian
society it is held that there is an explicit cause – most often, sorcery – for ev-
erything that happens. So as not to be blamed for something that in fact they
were not responsible for, a speaker is careful always to be as explicit as possible
about what they have done. This relates to the desirability of stating the source
of the evidence for everything that is said, visually obtained information being
the most valuable. We need detailed cross-cultural studies of societies which
speak languages with evidentiality systems before any cross-linguistically valid
conclusions can be formulated.
. Misconceptions
Recently, there has been a surge of interest in ‘evidentiality’7
resulting in a large
number of publications and definitions. Quite a few of these are misleading.
Anderson (1986:274–275) lists the following properties which he considers as
‘definitional’ for evidentials:
(a) evidentials show the kind of justification for a factual claim which is avail-
able to the person making that claim, whether direct evidence plus observation
(no inference needed), evidence plus inference, inference (evidence unspeci-
fied), reasoned expectation from logic and other facts; (b) evidentials are not
themselves the main predication of the clause, but are rather a specification
added to a factual claim about something else; (c) evidentials have the indica-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:36 F: TSL5401.tex / p.24 (24)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
tion of evidence as in (a) as their primary meaning, not only as a pragmatic
inference; (d) morphologically, evidentials are inflections, clitics or other free
syntactic elements (not compounds or derivational forms).
While points (a)–(c) are basically sound, point (d) – which concerns the sur-
face realization of the category – should not be among its definitional prop-
erties: for one thing, this criterion would not work for systems in which the
distinction between inflectional and derivational categories is not clear-cut.
Further criteria include (p. 277):
(i) evidentials are normally used in assertions (realis clauses), not in irrealis
clauses, nor in presuppositions; (ii) when the claimed fact is directly observ-
able by both speaker and hearer, evidentials are rarely used (or have a spe-
cial emphatic or surprisal sense); and (iii) when the speaker (first person)
was a knowing participant in some event (voluntary agent; conscious expe-
riencer), the knowledge of that event is normally direct and evidentials are
then often omitted.
All these points are highly arguable – evidentials in some systems may be
used in ‘irrealis’ clauses depending on how the interactions between mood
and modality, and evidentials, work in a particular language. Chapter 6 and
§3.7.1 of Chapter 11 provide ample illustration of evidentials with nondeclar-
ative moods in Tariana, and in Abkhaz. And in Tucano, evidentials occur with
the conditional mood (Aikhenvald, Chapter 5 of 2002).
The obligatoriness of evidentials depends on the particular system rather
than on randomly chosen parameters such as (ii) and (iii). In Tuyuca (Barnes
1984) evidentials are never omitted, whether the speaker is the ‘knowing par-
ticipant’ or not. Finally, Anderson’s additional criterion, that ‘second person
in questions is treated as first person in statements’ (that is, a locutor versus
nonlocutor distinction in person marking), is not at all necessarily linked to
evidentiality (see footnote 4).
Evidentiality systems differ in how complex they are – some distinguish
just two terms, eyewitness and noneyewitness, or reported and everything else,
and some distinguish up to seven (Central Pomo), or eight terms (Kashaya
Pomo). In this, and many other cases discussed in this volume, evidentiality is
a grammatical category in its own right. It is not usefully treated as a subcate-
gory of tense-aspect (Willett 1988), or as a subtype of epistemic or some other
modality (Bybee 1985; Chung & Timberlake 1985; Palmer 1986; and van der
Auwera & Plungian 1998). The fact that evidentials are typically (albeit inaccu-
rately) translated into English and other familiar European languages as epis-
temics ‘apparently’ or ‘obviously’ could have contributed to these treatments
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:36 F: TSL5401.tex / p.25 (25)
Evidentiality in typological perspective 
(also see the arguments in de Haan 1999).8
In this volume we present am-
ple evidence in favour of evidentiality as a cross-linguistically valid grammat-
ical category whose meaning is source of information and not just ‘linguistic
coding of epistemology’.
. The structure of this book, and prospects for future study
A brief note on the organization of the volume is in order. Chapters 2–13 are
each concerned with an in-depth study of an evidentiality system of a distinct
type. Each considers the following issues:
– organisation of systems, semantics of individual terms and their exten-
sions;
– correlations between evidentiality and other grammatical categories;
– the role evidentiality plays in discourse, the existence and the status of
evidentiality strategies;
– the origins of evidentials, and the correlations between these and the kinds
of extensions evidentials acquire; and
– evidentials and cultural attitudes.
The volume opens with a discussion of largish systems, in Chapter 2 on
Shipibo-Konibo (Pano), by Pilar Valenzuela; Chapter 3 on Qiang (Tibeto-
Burman), by Randy LaPolla; Chapter 4 on Western Apache (Athabaskan), by
Willem De Reuse; Chapter 5 on Eastern Pomo (Pomoan), by Sally McLendon;
and Chapter 6 on Tariana (Arawak), by Alexandra Aikhenvald.
This is followed by discussion of smaller evidentiality systems: Chapter 7
on Jarawara (Arawá), by R.M.W. Dixon; Chapter 8, by Victor Friedman, on
how an evidentiality strategy has been grammaticalized to become an evi-
dentiality category in the Balkans; Chapter 9 on Yukaghir (isolate), by Elena
Maslova; Chapter 10 on Mỹky (isolate), by Ruth Monserrat and R.M.W. Dixon;
and Chapter 11 on Abkhaz (West Caucasian), by Viacheslav Chirikba.
In Chapter 12, Lars Johanson discusses evidential systems of indirective
type in Turkic languages – unlike any other evidentiality systems, these involve
just an indication of existence for an information source, without specifying it.
In Chapter 13, Michael Fortescue discusses scattered coding of evidentiality in
West Greenlandic (Eskimo-Aleut) where evidential meanings do not constitute
one grammatical category.
Chapter 14, by Brian Joseph, summarizes the results of the preceding chap-
ters, and provides further prospects, questions and challenges.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:36 F: TSL5401.tex / p.26 (26)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
The volume lays foundations for further typological cross-linguistic work
on evidentiality. Importantly, all the authors have firsthand knowledge of lan-
guages with evidentiality, based on original fieldwork. The papers follow a uni-
fied typological approach. All this contributes to the reliability and compara-
bility of the inductive generalizations attempted here.
In order to know more about evidentiality systems and their status, we
suggest the following fruitful lines for future inquiry:
– investigating dependencies between evidentials and narrative genres;
– analyzing evidentials and how their usage correlates with different seman-
tic groups of predicates;
– exploring correlations between evidentials and other grammatical cate-
gories, especially in large systems;
– investigating possible further distinctions such as quotative and reporta-
tive;
– analyzing the various origins and grammaticalization paths for evidential
systems;
– investigating how the ways in which evidentials are employed may relate to
cultural stereotypes and newly emerging cultural practices; in other words,
how cultural changes may affect changes in evidentiality systems.
These are just a few of the possible directions for future investigations in
contact-induced change. To elaborate on these, and other issues (which have
not been mentioned here), we need further theoretically informed studies of
evidentials from across the world. This volume is but a start.
Notes
. I am grateful to R.M.W. Dixon and all the participants of the International Workshop
on Evidentiality, for comments and inspiration. Thanks also go to Janet Barnes, Lyle Camp-
bell, Hilary Chappell, Bernard Comrie, Éva Csató-Johanson,Victor Golla, Ilse Lehiste, Terry
Malone, Lena Maslova, Tom Payne, Phil Quick, Marie-Lucie Tarpent, Nikolai Vakhtin and
Tony Woodbury, for insightful comments, discussion and data.
. That is, evidentiality covers ‘type of evidence’ (e.g. Willett 1988) and ‘the existence of
source’ (Frawley 1992:413). We see no point in contrasting these two approaches as diamet-
rically opposed, pace Squartini (2001).
. That is, following Matthews’ (1997) definition, ‘indicating factual necessity, probability,
possibility, etc.’
. The opposition between locutor and nonlocutor, also known as conjunct and disjunct
participant marking, can acquire additional meanings related to the source of information
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:36 F: TSL5401.tex / p.27 (27)
Evidentiality in typological perspective 
and speaker’s participation in the action, and can thus be considered evidentiality strategies
(as in Tsafiki: Dickinson 2000:382–385; and numerous Tibeto-Burman languages).
. A useful summary of how evidential strategies grammaticalize in other neighbouring
languages is in Lazard (2000).
. The grammaticalization of ‘reported’ in Standard Estonian was speeded up by deliberate
language planning starting in 1922, especially by Johannes Aavik, the leading figure of the
Estonian language planning movement (Perrot 1996:159).
. The term ‘evidential’ itself appears to have first been introduced by Jakobson(1957/1995);
he described it as a verbal category ‘which takes into account three events – a narrated
event, a speech, and a narrated speech event’. In actual fact evidential systems can differ
in complexity, covering more than just these three parameters.
. Wierzbicka’s (1996:427–458) treatment of evidentiality (based on a reinterpretation
of the English translations of the limited data published in Chafe and Nichols 1986) is
both misguided and simplistic. She defines evidentials through semantic primitives such
as ‘know’, which are arguable as to their universality; thus, she is defining a grammatical cat-
egory through lexical means. Like many others, she does not make a distinction between ev-
identiality as a grammatical system and as a lexical means of expressing meanings somehow
related to ‘source of knowledge’.
References
Aikhenvald, A. Y. (2000). Classifiers: a typology of noun categorization devices. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Aikhenvald, A. Y. (in press). Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Aikhenvald, A. Y. (2002). Language contact in Amazonia. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Aikhenvald, A. Y., & Dixon, R. M. W. (1998a). Dependencies between grammatical systems.
Language, 74, 56–80.
Aikhenvald, A. Y., & Dixon, R. M. W. (1998b). Evidentials and areal typology: a case-study
from Amazonia. Language Sciences, 20, 241–257.
Anderson, L. B. (1986). Evidentials, paths of change, and mental maps: typologically regular
asymmetries. In W. Chafe & J. Nichols (Eds.), Evidentiality: the linguistic coding of
epistemology (pp. 273–312). Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Aoki, H. (1986). Evidentials in Japanese. In W. Chafe & J. Nichols (Eds.), Evidentiality: the
linguistic coding of epistemology (pp. 223–238). Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Barnes, J. (1984). Evidentials in the Tuyuca Verb. International Journal of American
Linguistics, 50, 255–271.
Bashir, E. (1988). Inferentiality in Kalasha and Khowar. CLS, 24, 47–59.
Bhat, D. N. S. (1999). The prominence of tense, aspect and mood. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Boas, F. (1938). Language. In F. Boas (Ed.), General anthropology (pp. 124–145). Boston,
New York: D. C. Heath and Company.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:36 F: TSL5401.tex / p.28 (28)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
Bybee, J. (1985). Morphology: a study of the relation between meaning and form. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Campbell, L. (1991). Some grammaticalization changes in Estonian and their implications.
In E. C. Traugott & B. Heine (Eds.), Approaches to grammaticalization, Vol. 1 (pp. 285–
299). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Chafe, W. (1986). Evidentiality in English conversation and academic writing. In W. Chafe
& J. Nichols (Eds.), Evidentiality: the linguistic coding of epistemology (pp. 261–272).
Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Chafe, W., & Nichols, J. (Eds.). (1986). Evidentiality: the linguistic coding of epistemology.
Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Chung, S., & Timberlake, A. (1985). Tense, aspect and mood. In T. Shopen (Ed.), Language
typology and syntactic description, Vol. III (pp. 202–258). Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Comrie, B. (1976). Aspect. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Comrie, B. (2000). Evidentials: semantics and history. In L. Johanson & B. Utas (Eds.),
Evidentials. Turkic, Iranian and neighbouring languages (pp. 1–12). Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Décsy, Guyla. (1966). Yurak Chrestomathy. Bloomington: Indiana University, and The
Hague: Mouton.
DeLancey, S. (1997). Mirativity: the grammatical marking of unexpected information.
Linguistic Typology, 1, 33–52.
Dendale, Patrick. (1993). Le conditionnel de l’information incertaine: marqueur modal ou
marqueur evidentiel? In G. Hilty (Ed.), Proceedings of the XXe Congrès International de
Linguistique et Philologie Romanes, Tome I, Section I. La phrase (pp. 165–176). Tübingen:
Francke.
Derbyshire, D. C. (1985). Hixkaryana. Dallas: Summer Institute of Linguistics.
Dickinson, C. (2000). Mirativity in Tsafiki. Studies in Language, 24, 379–421.
Dixon, R. M. W. (1988). A grammar of Boumaa Fijian. Chicago: The University of Chicago
Press.
Dixon, R. M. W. (1991). A new approach to English grammar, on semantic principles. Oxford:
Clarendon Press.
Dixon, R. M. W. (1994). Ergativity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Dixon, R. M. W. (2002). The eclectic morphology of Jarawara. To appear in R. M. W. Dixon
& A. Y. Aikhenvald (Eds.), Word: a cross-linguistic typology. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Dixon, R. M. W., & Aikhenvald, A. Y. (Eds.). (1999). The Amazonian languages. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Dobrushina, N., & Tatevosov, S. (1996). Usage of verbal forms. In A. E. Kibrik,
S. G. Tatevosov, & A. Eulenberg (Eds.), Godoberi (pp. 91–106). München: Lincom
Europa.
Donabédian, A. (2000). Towards a semasiological account of evidentials: an enunciative
approach of -er in Modern Western Armenian. Journal of Pragmatics, 33, 421–442.
Egerod, S. (1985). Typological features in Akha. In G. Thurgood, J. A. Matisoff, & D. Bradley
(Eds.), Linguistics of the Sino-Tibetan area: the state of the art (Papers presented to Paul
K. Benedict for his 71st birthday) (pp. 96–104). Canberra: Pacific Linguistics.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:36 F: TSL5401.tex / p.29 (29)
Evidentiality in typological perspective 
Fernandez-Vest, M. M. J. (1996). Du médiatif finno-ougrien: mode oblique en Estonien,
particules en Finnois et en Same. In Z. Guentchéva (Ed.), L’Énonciation médiatisée (pp.
169–182). Louvain-Paris: Éditions Peeters.
Floyd, R. (1997). La Estructura categorial de los evidenciales en el quechua wanka. Lima: ILV.
Fox, B. (2001). Evidentiality: Authority, responsibility, and entitlement in English
conversation, Journal of Linguistic Anthropology, 11, 1–29.
Frawley, W. (1992). Linguistic semantics. Hillsdale, New Jersey: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Givón, Talmy, & Alexandre Kimenyi. (1974). Truth, belief and doubt in Kinyarwanda,
Studies in African Linguistics, Supplement, 5, 95–113.
Gomez, G. G. (1990). The Shiriana dialect of Yanam (Northern Brazil). PhD thesis, Columbia
University.
Gomez-Imbert, E. (1986). Conocimiento y verdad en Tatuyo, Revista de Antropologia, II,
117–125.
Gordon, L. (1986). The Development of Evidentials in Maricopa. In W. Chafe & J. Nichols
(Eds.), Evidentiality: the linguistic coding of epistemology (pp. 75–88). Norwood, NJ:
Ablex.
Gralow, F. L. (1993). Un bosquejo del idioma Koreguaje. Bogotá: Asociación Instituto
Lingüístico de Verano.
Gronemeyer, C. (1997). Evidentiality in Lithuanian. Working Papers, 46, 93–112. Lund
University, Department of Linguistics.
Guentchéva, Z. (Ed.). (1996). L’Énonciation médiatisée. Louvain-Paris: Éditions Peeters.
Haan, de F. (1997). The interaction of modality and negation: a typological study. New York:
Garland Publication.
Haan, de F. (1999). Evidentiality and epistemic modality: setting boundaries. Southwest
Journal of Linguistics, 18, 83–102.
Hardman, M. J. (1986). Data-source marking in the Jaqi languages. In W. Chafe & J. Nichols
(Eds.), Evidentiality: the linguistic coding of epistemology (pp. 113–136). Norwood, NJ:
Ablex.
Haspelmath, M. (1993). A grammar of Lezgian. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Hewitt, B. G. (1979). The expression of inferentiality in Abkhaz. Journal of Linguistics, 15,
87–92.
Jacobsen, W. H. Jr. (1986). The heterogeneity of evidentials in Makah. In W. Chafe
& J. Nichols (Eds.), Evidentiality: the linguistic coding of epistemology (pp. 3–28).
Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Jakobson, R. O. (1957/1995). Shifters and verbal categories. On Language, V, 386–392.
Massachusetts: Havard University Press.
Jochelson, W. (1905). Essay on the grammar of the Yukaghir Language. American
Anthropologist, Supplement, 7, 369–424.
Johanson, L. (2000). Turkic indirectives. In L. Johanson & B. Utas (Eds.), Evidentials. Turkic,
Iranian and neighbouring languages (pp. 61–87). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Johanson, L., & Utas, B. (Eds.). (2000). Evidentials. Turkic, Iranian and neighbouring
languages. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Kibrik, A. E. (1977). Opyt strukturnogo opisanija archinskogo jazyka. Tom II. Taksono-
micheskaja grammatika. [An essay in structural description of Archi. Volume II.
Taksonomic Grammar]. Moscow: Izdateljstvo Moskovskogo Universiteta.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:36 F: TSL5401.tex / p.30 (30)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
Kronning, H. (forthcoming). Modalité et médiation épistemiques. To appear in
R. Delamotte-Legrand & L. Gosselin (Eds.) La médiation. Marquages en langue et en
discours. Actes du colloque international de Rouen 2000.
Künnap, A. (1999). Enets. Munich: Lincom Europa.
Kuznetsova, A. I., Helimsky, E. A., & Grushkina, E. V. (1980). Ocherki po seljkupskomu
jazyku. Tazovskij dialekt. Tom 1. [Essays on the Selkup Language. Taz Dialect. Vol. 1].
Moscow: Izdateljstvo Moskovskogo Universiteta.
Laanest, A. (1975). Sissejuhatus läänemeresoome keeltesse. (Introduction to Balto-Finnic
languages.) Tallinn: Eesti NSV Teaduste Akadeemia. Keele ja Kirjanduse Instituut.
Lang, Adrianne (1973). Enga dictionary with English index. Canberra: Pacific Linguistics.
Lazard, G. (1996). Le médiatif en Persan. In Z. Guentchéva (Ed.), L’Énonciation médiatisée
(pp. 21–30). Louvain-Paris: Éditions Peeters.
Lazard, G. (1999). Mirativity, evidentiality, mediativity, or other? Linguistic Typology, 3, 91–
110.
Lazard, G. (2000). On the grammaticalization of evidentiality, Journal of Pragmatics, 33,
359–368.
Lowe, I. (1999). Nambiquara. In R. M. W. Dixon & A. Y. Aikhenvald (Eds.), The Amazonian
languages (pp. 269–292). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
MacDonald, L. (1990). A grammar of Tauya. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Malone, T. (1988). The Origin and Development of Tuyuca Evidentials, International Journal
of American Linguistics, 54, 119–140.
Matthews, P. H. (1997). The concise Oxford dictionary of linguistics. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
May, J., & Loeweke, E. (1980). General grammar of Faso (Namo Me). Reprinted from
Workpapers in Papua New Guinea Languages, Vol. 27. Ukarumpa: Summer Institute
of Linguistics.
Merlan, F. (1981). Some functional relations among subordination, mood, aspect and focus
in Australian languages. Australian Journal of Linguistics, 1, 175–210.
Mortensen, C. A. (1999). A reference grammar of the Northern Embera languages. Texas: SIL
International and The University of Texas at Arlington.
Nikolaeva, I. (1999). The semantics of Northern Khanty evidentials. Journal de la Société
Finno-Ougrienne, 88, 131–159.
Noël, D. (2001). The passive matrices of English infinitival complement clauses: Evidentials
on the road to auxiliarihood? Studies in Language, 25, 255–296.
Noonan, M. (1985). Complementation. In T. Shopen (Ed.), Language Typology and Syntactic
Description, Vol. II (pp. 42–140). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Palmer, Frank R. (1986). Mood and modality. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Parks, D. (1972). A grammar of Pawnee. Garland Studies in American Indian Linguistics.
New York: Garland Publishing.
Perrot, Jean. (1996). Un médiatif ouralien: l’auditif en Samoyède Nenets. In Z. Guentchéva
(Ed.), L’Énonciation médiatisée (pp. 157–168). Louvain-Paris: Éditions Peeters.
Rakhilina, E. (1996). Jakoby comme procédé de médiatisation en russe. In Z. Guentchéva
(Ed.), L’Énonciation médiatisée (pp. 299–304). Louvain-Paris: Éditions Peeters.
Rombandeeva, E. I. (1973). Manskijskij jazyk [The Mansi language]. Moscow: Nauka.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:36 F: TSL5401.tex / p.31 (31)
Evidentiality in typological perspective 
Schlichter, A. (1986). The origin and deictic nature of Wintu evidentials. In W. Chafe
& J. Nichols (Eds.), Evidentiality: the linguistic coding of epistemology (pp. 46–59).
Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Serebrjannikov, B. A. (1960). Kategorii vremeni i vida v finno-ugorskih jazykah permskoj i
volzhskoj grupp. [Categories of Tense and Aspect in Finno-Ugric Languages of Permic and
Volga Groups]. Moscow: Izdateljstvo Akademii nauk SSSR.
Sherzer, J. (1976). An areal-typological study of American Indian languages north of Mexico
(North-Holland Linguistic Series, 20). North-Holland: Amsterdam.
Shipley, W. F. (1964). Maidu grammar. University of California Publications in Linguistics,
41.
Silver, S., & Miller, W. (1997). American Indian languages. Cultural and social contexts. Tuc-
son: The University of Arizona Press.
Squartini, M. (2001). The internal structure of evidentiality in Romance. Studies in
Language, 25, 255–296.
Stolz, T. (1991). Sprachbund im Baltikum? Estnisch und Lettisch im Zentrum einer
sprachlichen Konvergenzlandschaft. Bochum: Universitätsverlag Dr. N. Brockmeyer.
Strom, C. (1992). Retuarã Syntax (Studies in the languages of Colombia 3). Summer
Institute of Linguistics and the University of Texas at Arlington.
Thiesen, W. (1996). Gramatica del idioma Bora. Serie Lingüística Peruana 38. Peru: Instituto
Lingüístico de Verano.
van den Berg, H. (1995). A grammar of Hunzib. Munich: Lincom Europa.
van der Auwera, J., & Plungian, V. A. (1998). Modality’s semantic map. Linguistic Typology,
2, 79–124.
Watters, D. E. (1998). The Kham language of West-Central Nepal. PhD thesis, University of
Oregon. (Revision forthcoming with Cambridge: Cambridge University Press).
Wierzbicka, A. (1996). Semantics. Primes and universals. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Willett, T. (1988). A cross-linguistic survey of the grammaticization of evidentiality. Studies
in Language, 12, 51–97.
Willett, T. (1991). A reference grammar of Southeastern Tepehuan. Dallas: SIL and University
of Texas at Arlington.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.1 (33)
Chapter 2
Evidentiality in Shipibo-Konibo,
with a comparative overview
of the category in Panoan
Pilar M. Valenzuela
. Introduction
Shipibo-Konibo (henceforth, SK) is the language of the Shipibo, a Panoan peo-
ple composed of circa 30,000 individuals settled along the meandering Ucay-
ali River and its main tributaries in the Peruvian Amazon. Among the ma-
jor features of SK grammar are: dominantly agglutinative morphology; use of
suffixes (except for a closed set of mostly bodypart prefixes), enclitics, and
postpositions; AOV/SV basic constituent order; absence of cross-referential
pronominal marking on the verb or auxiliary; consistent ergative-absolutive
alignment manifested through case-markers at the phrasal level; fairly com-
plex switch-reference system; unusual types of transitivity agreement; and a
hitherto undescribed evidential system.
The coding of evidentiality in SK takes place at two different levels. First,
a major distinction between first-hand information and second-hand infor-
mation is established; secondly, a further specification may occur to indicate
either inference or speculation. As commonly found in languages with a gram-
maticalized evidentiality category, SK evidentials may also encode epistemic
modality and mirativity.
When eliciting isolated sentences from a Shipibo speaker, it becomes evi-
dent that any declarative sentence requires the presence of either -ra or -ronki to
be considered fully acceptable; their omission would simply yield “incomplete”
utterances. Consider the following examples:1
(1) a. ??Jawen
poss3
jema
village:abs
ani
large
iki.
cop
‘Her village is large.’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.2 (34)
 Pilar M. Valenzuela
b. Jawen
poss3
jema-ra
village:abs-dir.ev
ani
large
iki.
cop
‘Her village is large. (I have been there.)’
c. Jawen
poss3
jema-ronki
village:abs-rep
ani
large
iki.
cop
‘Her village is large. (I have not been there, I have been told that it is
large.)’
As indicated in parentheses, there is a clear evidential distinction between
(1b) and (1c). Two other possibilities involve the morphemes -bira and -mein;
while -bira generally co-occurs with -ra, combinations of -mein and -ra are
less common:
d. Ani-ra
large-dir.ev
i-bira-[a]i
be-infr-inc
jawen
poss3
jema.
village:abs
‘Her village must be large (e.g. because it has a secondary school.)’
e. Ani-mein(-ra)
large-specl-dir.ev
iki
cop
jawen
poss3
jema.
village:abs
‘Perhaps her village is large. (I am just guessing, I ask myself.)’
Additionally, -bira and -mein may combine with -ronki:2
f. Ani-ronki
large-rep
i-bira-[a]i
be-infr-inc
jawen
poss3
jema.
village:abs
‘Her village must be large (from what I heard).’
g. Ani-mein(-ronki)
large-specl-rep
iki
cop
jawen
poss3
jema.
village:abs
‘Perhaps her village is large (from what I heard).’
Crosslinguistically, interesting interactions and combinatorial constraints can
be attested between evidentials and other grammatical categories such as tense-
aspect, mode, person, and verb class. In many languages, evidentiality is en-
coded as part of the finite verb inflection. Dependent clauses, being typically
less finite, exhibit a reduced verbal morphology that commonly excludes evi-
dentials. Similarly, evidentiality specifications tend to be reduced or absent in
interrogative expressions, and are mostly absent in imperatives (Aikhenvald,
Chapter 1, this volume).
SK evidentials are clitics that do not take part in the obligatory verb mor-
phology. They may attach to non-finite clauses and, depending on semantico-
pragmatic feasibility, occur with all tense-aspects, persons, and verb classes.
There are two major constraints: (a) while all evidentials are found in the
declarative, only -mein may combine with interrogative-marked expressions,
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.3 (35)
Evidentiality in Shipibo-Konibo 
Table 1. Distribution of Evidentials across Clause Types
clause type -ra -ronki -bira -mein -ki
dir.ev rep infr specl rep2
main declarative + + + + +
dependent + + + + +
(-ki-marked) interrogative – – – + ?
imperative – – – – +
and (b) only the second reportative -ki (to be treated in 3.2) is attested with im-
peratives. Table 1 summarizes the distribution of evidential morphemes in SK.
. The direct evidential -ra
The selection of the direct evidential -ra indicates that the speaker is a per-
former in the situation described, is an observer, has first-hand sensory knowl-
edge (through vision, hearing, smell, taste, or touch) or, when combined with
-bira and -mein, that the reasoning or speculation is based upon evidence de-
rived from the speaker herself. In situations such as threats, warnings, generally
known facts, and habitual and future events,-ra indicates certainty. Despite this
additional meaning, I argue that -ra cannot be analyzed as a basic epistemic
marker (see also §§4, 5, and 10).
-Ra is realized as r- when preceding the copula iki, thus resulting in r-iki.
Otherwise, -ra is phonologically attached to the right of the first major sen-
tence constituent, other positions yielding ungrammatical utterances. -Ra is
ubiquitous in texts dealing with personal experiences:
(2) a. Nokon
poss1
jane
name:abs
r-iki
dir.ev-cop
Inkan Soi.
Inkan Soi
‘My name is Inkan Soi.’
b. E-a
1-abs
r-iki
dir.ev-cop
Bawanixo-nko-ni-a.
Bawanixo-loc-lig-abl
‘I am from Bawanixo.’
c. E-n-ra
1-erg-dir.ev
mato
2pl:abs
yoi-ai
say-inc
westíora
one
nokon
poss1
yosi-shoko
elder-dim
betan
conj
e-a
1-abs
winó-ni
pass:dtrnz-rem.p:nmlz
jawéki
thing:abs
yomera-i
get.prey-sssi
ka-[a]x.
go-pssi
‘I will tell you something that happened to me and my grandfather
once when we went fishing.’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.4 (36)
 Pilar M. Valenzuela
d. Westíora
one
nete-n-ra
day-temp-dir.ev
ka-a
go-pp2
iki
aux
nokon
poss1
yosi
elder
betan
conj
e-a,
1-abs
piti
fish:abs
bena-i...
search-sssi
‘One day my grandfather and I went to look for fish...’
The second position clitic behavior of -ra is corroborated by the following ex-
amples starting with a coordinated subject NP, a relative clause construction,
and a biclausal adverbial (in (5) /-ra/ is realized as [-a] after a sibilant):
(3) [Papa
father
betan
conj
tita]-ra
mother:abs-dir.ev
wai-nko
garden-all
ka-békon-ai.
go-dual-inc
‘Father and mother are going to the garden.’
(4) [[E-n
1-erg
atsa
manioc:abs
meni-ibat-a]
give-pst2-pp2
joni]-ra
person:abs-dir.ev
moa
already
ka-ke.
go-cmpl
‘The person to whom I gave manioc yesterday already left.’
(5) [[No-n
1pl-gen
papa
father:abs
nokó-ketian]
meet:dtrnz-pds
oin-ax]]-a
see-pssi-dir.ev
no-a
1pl-abs
raro-ke.
become.happy-cmpl
‘When we saw that our father arrived, we became happy.’
If the utterance starts with a vocative, -ra skips the vocative and occurs, again,
after the first major sentence constituent (see direct quote in example (21)).
However, when the first or only constituent is a finite verb, -ra precedes the
plural -kan (if present) and the aspect markers, thus occurring word-internally
(see also example 8):
(6) toxbá-paké-yama-ra-kan-ai
float-going.down-neg-dir.ev-pl-inc
‘(they) are not floating down the river’
(7) bi-bain-yama-ra-kan-ke
get-going.tr-neg-dir.ev-pl-cmpl
‘they did not take it while going’/‘they did not take it and left’
While -ra shows a low degree of selection with respect to its hosts, the plural
-kan and the aspect markers occur only with verbs. Additionally, -ra attaches
to elements already containing indisputable enclitics (such as case- and switch-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.5 (37)
Evidentiality in Shipibo-Konibo 
reference markers), while -kan and the aspect morphemes do not. Hence, the
clitic -ra precedes morphemes that are best analyzed as verbal suffixes.3
The next expression shows that -ra is not restricted to visual evidence. The
transitive verb ‘fry’ is composed of an onomatopoeic root which combines with
the transitive auxiliary; the SK sentence is active:
(8) Shee
onom:frying
a-rá-kan-ai
do.tr-dir.ev-pl-inc
yapa.
fish:abs
‘Fish is being fried. (I smell it and hear it, but cannot see it.)’
Sentences (9) and (10) illustrate, respectively, the use of -ra in a warning ex-
pression and in a future situation involving a non-first person:
(9) Mi-a-ra
2-abs-dir.ev
rono-n
snake-erg
natex-na-ke.
bite-preven-cmpl
‘Be careful, the snake could bite you.’
(10) Jatíbi-tian-ra
all-temp-dir.ev
i-nox
do.i-fut
iki
(fut)
chiní
last
bake-bo
child-pl:abs
ja-ská
that-comp
ja-skát-i
that-comp-i
‘From now on, your children will live just like that.’
-Ra also functions as a “default” evidential when describing events the speaker
might have witnessed. For example, if asked to translate the sentence “The dog
caught a paca”, a Shipibo speaker will most probably employ -ra without fur-
ther inquiring about the source of the information. The relatively broad se-
mantic area covered by -ra is comparable to that of the inferential in Yukaghir
(Maslova, this volume); see also §3.3 for possible etymology and diachronic
development.
. The coding of reported information
. The reportative -ronki
The reportative -ronki indicates that the speaker did not perform or directly
experience the situation described, but obtained the information from an iden-
tified or an anonymous source. The use of -ronki does not entail disbelief or a
lower degree of reliability with regard to the information.
-Ronki is found in traditional stories that commonly start with Moatian-
ronki... “It is said that a long time ago...” or Nete benatianronki “It is said
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.6 (38)
 Pilar M. Valenzuela
that when the world was new...”. Once the reported nature of the utterance
has been established, -ronki is not attested in all clauses, sentences, or conver-
sational turns; instead, -ronki seems to mark certain discourse units. Consider
the following excerpt from a myth of origin. In (11a) the narrator employs
-ronki to open the text, where the general living conditions of the Shipibo in
remote times are described; several clauses unmarked for evidentiality follow:
(11) a. Nete
world
bena-tian-ronki,
new-temp-rep
no-n
1pl-gen
reken-bo
first-pl:abs
onitsapi-bires
suffer:sssi-purely
ja-pao-ni-ke;
live-hab-rem.p-cmpl
wetsa-nko-bires
other-loc-purely
raka-t-ax
lying-dtrnz-pssi
oxa-ai-bo,
sleep-pp1-pl:abs
chopa
clothes
sawe-ti
put.on-inf:abs
onan-ma-bo,
knowledgeable-neg-pl:abs
piti
fish
oa
dist
jawékiati- bo
crops-pl:abs
onan-ma-bo,
knowledgeable-neg-pl:abs
bimi-bicho
fruit:abs-only
koko-ai-bo,
eat.sweet.fruit-pp1-pl:abs
boan-boan-res-i
pass.many-pass.many-just-sssi
ja-kan-a-bo.
live-pl-pp2-pl:abs
‘When the world was new (-ronki), our ancestors lived just suffering;
they lay and slept anywhere, they didn’t wear any clothes, they did
not know (how to obtain) fish or crops, they ate just fruit, they lived
walking and walking.’
A second instance of -ronki occurs on the adverbial clause initiating (11b), then
the God Sun is introduced and the main story-line begins:
b. Jaskara
that.way
onitsapi-bires
suffer:sssi-purely
i-t-ai
do.i-prog-pp1
oin-xon-ronki
see-psst-rep
no-n
1pl-gen
Bari
Sun
Rios-en
God-erg
jawen
poss3
rabé
two
bake
child:abs
no-a
1pl-abs
raan-xon-ni-ke:
send-ben-rem.p-cmpl
Papa
Papa
Inka
Inka
Rios
God
betan
conj
Xane
Xane
Inka
Inka
Rios.
God
‘Seeing that they were suffering (-ronki), our God Sun sent us his two
sons: Papa Inka God and Xane Inka God.’
The next instances of -ronki coincide with a discontinuity in the story-line,
when the two Inkas sent by the Sun are characterized in a contrastive fashion;
-ronki occurs after the mention of each one of them:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.7 (39)
Evidentiality in Shipibo-Konibo 
c. Ja
that
Papa
Papa
Bari
Sun
Inka
Inka
Rios-ronki
God:abs-rep
i-ni-ke
be-rem.p-cmpl
jakon
good
shinan-ya,
mind-prop
ikaxbi
but
ja
that
Xane
Xane
Inka
Inka
Rios-ronki
God:abs-rep
i-ni-ke
be-rem.p-cmpl
jakon-ma
good-neg
shinan-ya...
mind-prop
‘Papa Inka Bari God (-ronki) was generous, but Xane Inka God
(-ronki) was stingy...’ (Fucshico 1998:11, my analysis)
Although -ronki and -ra are not overtly marked in every clause, sentence, or
conversational turn, I argue that evidentiality is “obligatory” in the sense that
the evidential value of the information has always been grammatically marked
in the forgoing discourse and is clear to native speakers. Once this has been
established in the text, -ra and -ronki can be left out in certain clauses that can
be said to be under the “scope” of a previous overt evidential. This analysis is
compatible with the fact that either -ra or -ronki is required in declarative ex-
pressions produced in isolation (§1), since in these instances there is no context
from where their evidential value could be derived. When there is a switch in
evidential value, however, this has to be indicated overtly.4
Crucially, -ronki is a clitic and occupies the same position as -ra in the
sentence; i.e. it occurs to the right of the first major constituent. Furthermore,
-ronki precedes the plural and aspect markers if the first or single constituent is
a finite verb:
(12) a. A-ronki-ai.
do.tr-rep-inc
‘It is said that s/he will do (it).’/‘S/he says that s/he will do it.’
b. A-ronki-a
do.tr-rep-pp2
iki
aux
‘It is said that s/he did (it).’/‘S/he says that s/he did (it).’
However, -ronki cannot be followed by the completive aspect marker -ke or the
plural -kan unless an auxiliary verb is placed inbetween:
c. *A-ronki-ke.
do.tr-rep-cmpl
It is said that s/he did (it)./S/he says that s/he did (it).
d. A-ronki-a-ke.
do.tr-rep-do.tr-cmpl
‘It is said that s/he did (it).’/‘S/he says that s/he did (it).’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.8 (40)
 Pilar M. Valenzuela
e. *A-ronki-kan-a
do.tr-rep-pl-pp2
iki.
aux
It is said that they did (it).
f. A-ronki-a-kan-a
do.tr-rep-do.tr-pl-pp2
iki.
aux
‘It is said that they did (it).’
By contrast, -ra may combine with the plural and the completive -ke directly
(examples (6)–(8)).
As shown in (13), the general interrogative -ki exhibits the same distribu-
tion as -ra and -ronki (a different position of -ki would yield ungrammatical
utterances):
(13) a. Mi-a-ki
2-abs-inter
xawi
sugar.cane
wai-nko
garden-all
ka-[a]i?
go-pp1
b. Xawi
sugar.cane
wai-nko-ki
garden-all-inter
mi-a
2-abs
ka-[a]i?
go-pp1
c. Ka-ki-ai
go-inter-pp1
mi-a
2-abs
xawi
sugar.cane
wai-nko?
garden-all
‘Are you going to the sugar cane garden?’
Hence -ra, -ronki and the interrogative -ki, occupy the same position in the
sentence (with the minor reservations in (12c–f). In the absence of any evi-
dence to the contrary, this suggests that the three clitics form a single paradigm
(cf. Jaqaru, an Aymara language from Peru where markers for questions, first-
hand information, and reported information are part of the same paradigm;
Hardman 1986:129). I will return to this point in Sections 3.3 and 10.
An interesting use of the reportative in SK is to mark indirect speech, when
describing someone else’s utterances or thoughts. In 14(a) -ra marks the first
clause corresponding to an event in which the speaker participated herself,
while -ronki occurs in the complement clause where the speaker reports what
Beso told her:
(14) a. Beso-n-ra
Beso-erg-dir.ev
e-a
1-abs
yoi-ke
say-cmpl
[Kontámanain-ronki
[Contamana:loc-rep
oi
rain:abs
be-ai].
come-pp1]
‘Beso told me that it is raining in Contamana.’
By contrast, -ronki is not acceptable in (14b), where the speaker reports some-
thing she has previously said herself:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.9 (41)
Evidentiality in Shipibo-Konibo 
b. *E-n-ra
1-erg-dir.ev
yoi-ke
say-cmpl
[Kontámanain-ronki
Contamana:loc-rep
oi
rain:abs
be-ai].
come-pp1
‘I said that it was raining in Contamana.’
In (15) the speaker, assuming that s/he has indeed witnessed the theft, cannot
use the reportative -ronki to avoid responsibility for the information, but would
be considered to have lied:
(15) Ja-ronki
3:abs-rep
yometso-iba-ke.
become.thief-pst2-cmpl
‘(I heard that) he stole it (but actually I saw him).’
Either -ra or -ronki may be employed when the speaker refers to an event that
took place while being drunk, the selection depending on whether s/he has a
recollection of the events or was just told about them:
(16) E-a-ronki/-ra
1-abs-rep/-dir.ev
tima-nan-iba-ke.
hit.with.fist-rec-pst2-cmpl
‘I had a fight.’ (I was told, I don’t recall it./I recall it, although I was drunk.)
Although the use of -ronki by itself has no negative implication as to the re-
liability of the information, it may be used sarcastically in combination with
other means (such as a marked intonation, a gesture, and/or a smile):
(17) Nato
this
oxe-ronki
moon-rep
mi-a
2-abs
sueldo
salary:abs
nee-n-xon-ai
go.up-trnz-ben-inc
apo-n,
chief-erg
oin-tan-we!
see-go.do-imp
‘(It is said that) this month the president will raise your salary. Go see it!’
(I am sure this is not true.)
. The reportative -ki
There is a second reportative, -ki (possibly a short form of -ronki), which is
identical in form to the general interrogative (example 13). Although the two
reportatives are semantically interchangable, -ki tends to occur more often than
-ronki in text and may even mark different constituents in the same sentence:
(18) a. Ja-ská-ketian-ki
that-comp-pds-rep2
choro-pake-ni-ke,
disentangle-distr-rem.p-cmpl
‘In that way (the sloth woman) disentangled (the thread),’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.10 (42)
 Pilar M. Valenzuela
b. ja
that
tita-shoko-n-ki
mother-dim-erg-rep2
a-ni-ke
do.tr-rem.p-cmpl
ja
that
yoman-ki
thread:abs-rep2
choro-ma-xon-ki,
disentangle-caus-psst-rep2
‘the elderly woman made (her) disentangle (the thread)’
c. jakiribi-ki
again-rep2
tonko
ball:abs
a-ma-a
do.tr-caus-pp2
iki
aux
ja
that
ponsen
sloth
ainbo.
woman:abs
‘(she) made the sloth woman form a ball (of thread) again.’
(Canayo 1993:191, revised by Sanken Bari, my analysis)
The relatively freer distribution of the reportative -ki, together with the mean-
ing difference, distinguishes it from the interrogative bearing the same form.
A second difference between the two reportatives is that -ki but not -ronki
may be used with imperative expressions (cf. reported imperatives in Tariana
and some Tucanoan languages, Aikhenvald, Chapters 1 and 6, this volume):
(19) Onpax-ki
contained.water:abs-rep2
be-wé!
bring-imp
*-ronki
‘(S/he says that you must) bring water!’
In addition, the two reportatives may be found in the same discourse chain.
Moreover, it is possible to attest the sequence -ronki-ki as in (20) (the reverse
order -ki-ronki is ungrammatical). Note that the presence of two contiguous
reportatives does not encode second degree hearsay:5
(20) Ne-ke-a
prox-loc-abl
nete
world
keská-ribi-ronki-ki
comp-also-rep-rep2
jene
flowing.water
meran.
inside
‘(It is said that) inside the water it is just like on this world.’
The next example illustrates the coding of second degree hearsay. It has been
extracted from a text where the Shipibo plan to deceive the Sun in order to
obtain the white-lipped peccaries he keeps in the sky. The protagonist is the
shaman Ashi, who is supposed to visit the Sun and have him come down to the
earth; in the meanwhile Ashi will set the peccaries free. The transitive auxiliary
a(k)-, translated here as ‘tell’, closes a direct quote which in turn contains a
reportative expression introduced by verbs of saying and marked by -ronki:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.11 (43)
Evidentiality in Shipibo-Konibo 
(21) “Ja
that
noko-xon-ra
find-psst-dir.ev
e-n
1-erg
yo-i
say-sssi
ka-[a]i
go-inc
ne-ská-a-kin:
prox-comp-do.tr-ssst
“Papá,
father:voc
mi-a-ra
2-abs-dir.ev
bake
child
wetsa-baon
other-pl:erg
kena-ma-ke,
call-caus-cmpl
mi-n-ronki
2-erg-rep
xea-i
drink-sssi
ka-ti
go-inf
iki” ”,
aux
a-kin
do.tr-ssst
ak-á.
do.tr-pp2
‘(Ashi) told (the people): “Once I find him I will tell him the follow-
ing: “Father, my brothers have sent (me) to call you, they say that you
have to come (down to the earth) to have a drink””.’ (Soi Rawa 1995:27,
my analysis)
. Possible sources of the reportatives
The form -ki may be related to the semantically generic intransitive auxiliary
ik-, which translates as ‘say’ when introducing or closing a direct quote (analo-
gous to the transitive ak- in (21)). In the related language Kashibo-Kakataibo,
the intransitive auxiliary is ki- instead of ik-; apparently, its meaning and func-
tions coincide with those in SK (Wistrand 1969:157). Ki- ‘say’ may be the
source of both the shorter reportative and the general interrogative; in both
instances -ki would indicate absence of first-hand knowledge on the part of the
speaker (see also §10).
Interestingly, a third Panoan language, Matses, has two intransitive verbs
of saying: onke- ‘speak’ and ke- ‘say’ (Kneeland 1979). It is tempting to relate
these verbs to the SK reportatives -ronki and -ki, respectively. In support of this
hypothesis is the fact that Proto-Panoan6
*/i/ has the reflex /i/ in SK but the
reflexes /i/ ∼ /e/ in Matses (e.g. *pi- ‘eat’, SK pi-, Matses pe; *ßi- ‘get’, SK bi-,
Matses bed; *bawi[n/mV] kind of fish, SK bawin, Matses bawen; Shell 1975;
Kneeland 1979). The reportative -ronki may have resulted from the combina-
tion of -ra + onke-/onki-, in which case -ra may have been a declarative marker
at a previous stage of the language (Faust 1973 as well as Loriot, Lauriault, &
Day 1993 analyze -ra as a declarative/indicative marker). In turn, the gram-
maticalization of -ronki as reportative may have pressured an evidential rein-
terpretation of -ra. Note that a declarative origin of -ra would account for its
current wide distribution which includes future situations, a context where ev-
identiality marking is not expected. One must be cautious with the hypothesis
outlined here, however, since the roots ki- and onki- are not attested in SK.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.12 (44)
 Pilar M. Valenzuela
. The inferential -bira
-Bira encodes inference based on reasoning or observable evidence. It indi-
cates that the speaker has a fairly well-sustained hypothesis for the proposition
expressed. However, a consultant explained, -bira entails some degree of un-
certainty since the speaker has not directly observed what is being described.7
-Bira does not generally occur by itself but combines with either -ra or
the reportatives. Hence -bira can be analyzed as an addition or specification
on clauses already marked by -ra, -ronki, or the reportative -ki. The inferential
-bira is commonly found in the verb but may also occur on a focused non-
verbal element.
Suppose two women are commenting on Beka’s recent move to Charax
Manan, a village where there is scarcity of fish, the main ingredient of Shipibo
diet; then, one of the women could say Beka-ra pi-kas-i-bira i-t-ai [Beka:abs-
dir.ev eat-des-sssi-infr be-prog-inc] ‘Beka must be hungry’. Or someone
hears Beka’s baby crying and tells her Mi-n bake pi-kas-bira-[a]i, oin-we!
[2-gen child:abs eat-des-infr-inc see-imp] ‘Probably your child is hungry,
go see her!’
Now let’s turn to text examples. The next sentence belongs to a narrative
where a family goes to fish with barbasco (kind of plant used to poison fish).8
Given that a reasonable time has passed after the barbasco was spread on the
water, it is expected that the fish are already getting poisoned and floating, and
hence it is time to go catch them. In this context the mother says:
(22) ...moa-ra
already-dir.ev
i-bira-[a]i
do.i-infr-inc
yapa
fish:abs
paen-i,
become.dizzy-sssi
oin-non
see-prosp
bo-kan-we!
go.pl-pl-imp
‘...the fish must be getting poisoned already, let’s go see (them)!’
(Inuma 1993:16, my analysis)
When the family members are already close to the river, they hear a child crying
(and possibly see a heap on the sand too); then, the mother tells her son:
(23) Ka-men-tan-we
go-quickly-go.do-imp
koka-baon-ra
maternal.uncle-pl:erg-dir.ev
jawe-bira
what:abs-infr
miin-ke,
bury-cmpl
bake-ra
child:abs-dir.ev
sion
onom:crying
i-t-ai.
do.i-prog-inc
‘Go quickly and see! What could your uncles have buried, a child is crying.’
(Inuma 1993:16, my analysis)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.13 (45)
Evidentiality in Shipibo-Konibo 
In (23) it is obvious that the woman, hearing the child crying, suspects it is him
her mean relatives have buried. This is exactly what had happened according
to the story, they had buried the Inka’s son.
In the example below, the narrator is telling a group of people about the do-
mesticated animals living on the Salt Mountain up the Pishki River. He claims
that cows and chickens can be heard and seen in this place, despite the fact that
no inhabitant or owner of the animals is to be found. Then the speaker adds:
(24) a. Nato
this
jawéki-bo-ra
animal-pl:abs-dir.ev
e-n
1-erg
onan-yama-ke
know-neg-cmpl
tso-n-a-ra
who-gen-nmlz-dir.ev
i-bira-[a]i,
be-infr-inc
ikaxbi
but
ja
that
Tashi
Salt
Manamamea
Mountain:loc:abl
iki.
cop
‘I don’t know whose animals these could be, but they are from the Salt
Mountain.’
Although from the narrative itself it seems the narrator has no clue as to who
the owner of the animals is, this is not really the case. One can learn in that
village about the Inka (mythical hero) who used to live among the Shipibo in
the old times. One day the Shipibo disobeyed the Inka, so the Inka abandoned
them and went to live to the Salt Mountain. Therefore, the owner of the domes-
ticated animals must be the Inka. (If the narrator had really had no idea with
regard to the identity of the domesticated animals’ owner, I believe he might
have used -mein instead of -bira; see §5.)
The following examples are taken from a narrative about the Inka’s daugh-
ter who was sent by her father to marry the last Shipibo man left on earth after
the deluge and procreate with him. But instead of taking the Inka woman, the
man takes her female servant and refuses to let her go. Seeing this situation, the
Inka’s daughter tells her servant the following (note that -bira occurs on the
contrastive focal element, while -ra follows the first major constituent):
(25) Mi-on-bira
2-intrst-infr
keen-kin-ra
want-ssst-dir.ev
mi-a
2-abs
a-ke,
do.tr-cmpl
mi-a
2-abs
benta-n
benta-erg
yatan-ke.
hold-cmpl
‘Probably it is because he wants YOU that he took you, that the benta took
you.’ (Inuma 1993:35, revised by Sanken Bari, my analysis).
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.14 (46)
 Pilar M. Valenzuela
Interrupting the story-line the narrator comments on the meaning of the word
“benta” which is unknown to him (an archaism?). In this example -bira com-
bines with the reportative -ronki:
(26) Jawe
what
joi-ronki
word:abs-rep
i-bira-[a]i
do.i-infr-inc
“benta”
benta
ja-boan
3-pl:erg
ak-á
do.tr-pp2
joi-bi-ribi.
language-emph-also
‘What could “benta” have meant in their language (from what I heard).’
(Inuma 1993:35, my analysis)
The use of -bira in (26) indicates that the speaker has a reasonably good hy-
pothesis regarding the meaning of “benta”. In fact, from the narrative context
it is obvious that “benta” refers to a partner in a love-sexual relationship.9
-Bira is also found in expressions presenting two alternatives (27), or it can
be used to mean ‘approximately’ (28). The structure V-ti iki employed in (27)
commonly signals obligation:
(27) E-n-ra
1-erg-dir.ev
kopi-bira-ti
return-bira-inf
iki,
aux
e-n-ra
1-erg-dir.ev
a-yama-bira-ti
do.tr-neg-bira-inf
iki.
aux
‘Should I take revenge against him or not?’
(28) Jaino-a-x
there:loc-abl-i
kimisha
three
oxe-bira
moon:abs-bira
ik-á
do.i-pp2
iki.
aux
‘Then, about three months passed.’
In addition, -bira is used when a speaker hesitates trying to recall information
that does not come to her mind immediately but that is probably accessible
to her. For example, trying to recall how a song starts, a speaker uttered Ja-
bira...jaa-bira... and then started singing. Finally, -bira may be used to soften
a request that would otherwise sound too direct.
In sum, -bira indicates the existence of fairly good evidence based on rea-
soning or observable facts; at the same time, -bira allows for some degree of un-
certainty. -Bira is additionally used when presenting two alternatives,to express
approximation, to soften a request, and in hesitations.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.15 (47)
Evidentiality in Shipibo-Konibo 
. The speculative -mein ∼ -main
Although often attested by itself, -mein ∼ -main (in free distribution) may
combine with -ra, the reportatives, or even the interrogative -ki. In structural
terms, sentences containing -mein look like declarative expressions since they
may carry the completive aspect marker -ke (-ke is necessarily replaced by -a
in questions and other types of nominalized clauses). However, -mein is in-
terpreted by native speakers as something that “one asks oneself”. A consul-
tant translated -mein as ‘I am (just) guessing’. -Mein is used when the evidence
for the proposition is rather poor or maybe even non-existent. For example,
if someone knocks at one’s door and one is not expecting anybody, one could
use -mein to express Tso-a-mein i-ti iki? [who-abs-specl be-inf aux] ‘Who
could it be?’ However, if one is expecting Beka, one would probably use the in-
ferential -bira to say Beka-ra i-bira-ai [Beka:abs-dir.ev be-infr-inc] ‘It must
be Beka’. Or, if one is watching a soccer match on TV and sees that a player
suddenly falls to the ground and others come in his help, one could say Oa-
ra taské-bira-ke [dist:abs-dir.ev sprain-infr-cmpl] ‘He must have sprained
or twisted his ankle’. In this context, the use of -mein would be dispreferred
given that the evidence to arrive at that conclusion seems fairly good. However,
-mein would be preferred if one simply sees an unknown person on the street
walking with difficulty (Yoi Sani, p.c. 2000; Sanken Bari, p.c. 2002). -Mein also
expresses doubt.
In the text example below, a man observes that fruit fall down from a tree
into the water. A group of pilchards swim towards the fruit. Some minutes
afterwards the pilchards fly. Then, the man “asks himself”:
(29) Nato
this
jiwi
tree
bimi
fruit:abs
pi-ax-mein(-ra)
eat-pssi-specl(-dir.ev)
sipan
pilchard:abs
noya-ke.
fly-cmpl
‘Having eaten the fruit from this tree perhaps the pilchards flew.’
In a different story, a woman goes to clear the garden every day without taking
a machete with her. Her husband wonders:
(30) a. Jawe
what
keská-xon-main
comp-tr-specl
ak-ai
do.tr-inc
nokon
poss1
awinin
wife:erg
wai
garden:abs
oro-kin,
clear-ssst
machíto-oma
machete-priv
i-xon-bi?
be-psst-emph
‘How can my wife clear the garden in spite of not having a machete
with her?’ (Ministerio de Educación and ILV 1979:23, my analysis)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.16 (48)
 Pilar M. Valenzuela
The husband decides to spy on his wife and hides close to the garden. Then, he
sees a turtle clearing the garden with its shell and thinks:
b. Nokon
poss1
awin
wife:abs
ik-ax-bi-main
be-pssi-emph-specl
iki?
cop
‘Is this perhaps my wife?’ (Ministerio de Educación and ILV 1979:23,
revised by Sanken Bari, my analysis)
It was in fact his wife, the man had married a turtle woman.
As probably noted already, -mein may be used in situations when the
speaker is confused or surprised because what he experiences is totally unex-
pected or contradicts his knowledge of the world. In these cases -mein plays a
mirative function;10
however, this is not necessarily the case, as shown below:
(31) Nato
this
joxo
white
koríki
money:abs
miin-kan-ni
bury-pl-rem.p:nmlz
bi-ax-main,
get-pssi-specl
no-a
1pl-abs
yometso
become.thief
i-ti
do.i-inf
iki.
aux
‘If we take these coins that were buried long ago, we would perhaps be
taken as thieves.’ (Loriot, Lauriault, & Day 1993:241, my analysis)
In the following example, -mein combines with the interrogative -ki:
(32) Mi-n-mein-ki
2-erg-specl-int
a-ti
do.tr-inf
iki?
cop
‘Would you perhaps do it?’
In addition, -mein may indicate courtesy or politeness:
(33) Mi-n-mein
2-erg-specl
e-a
1-abs
nokon
poss1
wai
garden:abs
oro-xon-ai?
clear-ben-inc
‘Would you please/perhaps clear my garden for me?’
-Mein is also attested in content questions. After having his students read a
short story about a man who killed forty red monkeys that had eaten up his
bananas, a teacher asked the children the following question:
(34) Jaweti
how.many
joshin
red
shino-mein
monkey:abs-specl
joni-n
man-erg
rete-a
kill-pp2
iki?
aux
‘How many red monkeys did the man kill?’
Unlike -bira, -mein cannot be used as an approximative marker; besides, the
exact number of monkeys the man killed is clear from the text. According to the
teacher, if he had employed just the interrogative -ki in (34) the question would
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.17 (49)
Evidentiality in Shipibo-Konibo 
have been addressed to the children exclusively. However, through the use of
-mein he as a teacher showed involvement in the task and presented himself
as a participant (Ronon Meni, p.c. 2000). This explanation is compatible with
the interpretation of constructions containing -mein as “something one asks
oneself”, and of those involving the interrogative -ki as related to second-hand
information.
Yet another function of -mein is to mark a type of rhetorical question pre-
supposing a negative answer. The following example belongs to a woman’s
description of the Shipibo social rule according to which those holding the
relationship of rayos (a man’s parent-in-law, a man’s or woman’s son-in-law)
cannot communicate directly but must do it through their daughter or wife:
(35) No-n
1pl-gen
bene
husband:abs
i-ke-mein
be-pds-specl
rayos
son.in.law/man’s.parent.in.law:abs
no-n
1pl-erg
yoká-ti
ask-inf
iki?
aux
‘What, is our son-in-law perhaps our husband to ask him questions di-
rectly?’
From the examples above it can be seen that -mein occurs after the first major
constituent of the sentence similarly to the direct evidential -ra, the reporta-
tive -ronki, and the interrogative -ki. The next sentence shows that also -mein
precedes aspectual morphology when the first constituent is a finite verb:
(36) Ka-mein-ke
go-specl-cmpl
Charo
Charo
Mashi-nko?
Mashi-all
‘S/he may have gone to Charo Mashi.’11
Summarizing, -mein is used when the evidence for the proposition is rather
poor or possibly even non-existent; also, it expresses doubt and may have a
mirative extension. In questions or requests, -mein can indicate courtesy or in-
volvement on the part of the speaker, or may mark a type of rhetorical question
presupposing a negative answer. It could be said that -mein forms a paradigm
with -ra, -ronki, and the interrogative -ki except for the fact that -mein may
be followed by these markers. Sentences containing -mein carry finite verb in-
flection and hence resemble declarative expressions. But even when in combi-
nation with -ra which is restricted to the declarative, expressions marked by
-mein are interpreted by native speakers as something “one asks oneself”, as a
speculation or guessing.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.18 (50)
 Pilar M. Valenzuela
. Common and traditional knowledge
Evidentials are found in dealing with common and traditional knowledge in
accordance with the patterns described above.12
In folkloric texts, for example,
the reportatives are employed except for the instances of direct quotation which
generally trigger a switch to the direct evidential -ra.
Piripiri is a generic category referring to a wide variety of herbs (mostly
Ciperacea) with special powers that are beneficial for those using them. De-
scribing the properties of the ‘love piripiri’, a male consultant said:
(37) Noi
love
waste
piripiri:abs
r-iki
dir.ev-cop
ainbo
woman:abs
bi-ti.
get-inf
‘The love piripiri is used to conquer a woman.’
Answering subsequent questions, the consultant explained that he had tried
the love piripiri himself (and it worked). Next, referring to the ‘piripiri to give
birth with ease’ the same male speaker stated:
(38) Jakon
good
baken-ti
give.birth-inf
waste
piripiri:abs
r-iki
dir.ev-cop
kikin
completely
ikon.
true
‘The piripiri to give birth with ease is really effective.’
In this case the consultant explained that he had seen his wife use jakon ba-
kenti waste and she delivered their baby at home without major difficulties. By
contrast, -ronki was selected when describing the similar properties of the ray
fat, with which the consultant had not had personal experience (although he
didn’t seem to question its effectiveness):
(39) Iwi
ray
xeni-ribi-ronki
fat:abs-also-rep
jakon
good
baken-ti
give.birth-inf
iki.
cop
‘(It is said that) also the ray fat is good to give birth with ease.’
. Evidentials and cultural attitudes
The reportative -ronki is used when describing one’s own dreams. This func-
tion of -ronki does not seem in accordance with its basic meaning; i.e. to mark
information heard from somebody else:
(40) E-a-ronki
1-abs-rep
i-wan-ke
do.i-pst1-cmpl
ani
large
aros
rice
wai
garden
napo
center
chankat-a.
stand-pp2
‘(It is said that) I was standing in the center of a large rice garden.’13
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.19 (51)
Evidentiality in Shipibo-Konibo 
I hypothesize that the non-use of the “highest” evidential -ra in this situation
may be a way to signal that what one has experienced is not part of reality.
According to Shipibo worldview, the great shaman under the influence of
the hallucinogen ayahuasca (Banisteriopsis species, Malpighiaceae) travels to an-
other layer of reality and relates with beings that cannot be seen by the non-
specialist, among them the “hidden” people called Chaikoni. These experiences
are viewed as real. For example, a great shaman can establish a kinship rela-
tionship with a Chaikoni. Hence, a Shipibo may claim to have Chaikoni sib-
lings given that his father, a great shaman, married a Chaikoni woman and had
children with her (Kanan Jisma, p.c. 1991; Ranin Ama, p.c. 1998).
Through the use of ayahuasca, the shaman sees designs or knots on a pa-
tient’s face and body, and consults with his allied spirits to arrive at a diagnos-
tic and determine the appropriate treatment (see Tournon 1991 and references
therein). The following example is an excerpt from a chant sung by a shaman
during an ayahuasca healing session (from Tournon 1991:196, my analysis):
(41) ...e-n-ronki
1-erg-rep
jakon
good
ak-ai...
do.tr-inc
‘...they (my allied spirits) say that I do it well...’
...joni
man
yora
body:abs
senen-ma,
edge-neg
‘...the man’s body is not fully healed,’
yora
body
senen-mamea
edge-neg:loc:abl
e-n-ra
1-erg-dir.ev
keyo-bo-ai
finish-go.tr-inc
‘I will complete the healing of the body’
jakon
good
koshi
strong
bewakan...
song:inst
‘with my good and powerful song...’
Sentence (42) would carry -ra if pronounced by a shaman giving a diagnostic
to a patient; the reportative -ronki would be used by a third participant telling
the patient the diagnostic heard from the shaman:
(42) Mi-a-ra/-ronki
2-abs-dir.ev/rep
koshoshka-nin
river.dolphin-erg
yoto-a
hit.with.blowpipe.dart-pp2
iki.
aux
‘The river dolphin hit you with a (imaginary) blowpipe-dart.’
The shaman may use the reportative when communicating to his patient in-
formation he has obtained from the spirits:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.20 (52)
 Pilar M. Valenzuela
(43) Mi-a-ronki
2-abs-rep
benxoa-ti
heal-inf
jakon
good
iki.
cop
‘(The spirits told me that) I can heal you.’
. Evidentials and European innovations
Watching an image on television is considered as experiencing the event one-
self, since one actually “sees” what is happening. Therefore, when watching a
soccer match the ongoing events as well as the results will be described us-
ing -ra. On the other hand, if the match is heard on the radio, the hearsay
-ronki must be employed since the speaker is being told about the events by
the reporter:
(44) a. Penal
penalty:abs
r-iki.
dir.ev-cop
‘It is a penalty.’ (I am watching it on television)
b. Penal-ronki
penalty:abs-rep
iki.
cop
‘It is a penalty.’ (I am hearing it on the radio)
However, explained a consultant, if one hears the news on television with-
out watching images on what is being reported -ronki rather than -ra would
be appropriate (Yoi Sani, p.c. 2000). In addition, -ronki is used to talk about
something one has been told over the telephone.
-Ronki is also employed for information one reads in the newspaper be-
cause “the newspaper says it”, on the internet (without watching images), or
in a book. -Ronki is ubiquitous when dealing with Peruvian history in the
bilingual elementary schools:
(45) No-n
1pl-gen
reken
first
Inka-ronki
Inka:abs-rep
ik-á
be-pp2
iki
aux
Manco
Manco
Capac.
Capac
‘(It is said that) our first Inka was Manco Capac.’
Commenting about geography classes, a teacher explained that if one reads in a
book about the location of a given place, -ronki would be used; however, if one
obtains the same information from a map, -ra would be appropriate instead:
(46) a. Alemania-ronki
Germany:abs-rep
Holanda
the.Netherlands
patax
next.to
iki.
cop
‘Germany is next to the Netherlands (I read it in a book).’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.21 (53)
Evidentiality in Shipibo-Konibo 
b. Alemania-ra
Germany:abs-dir.ev
Holanda
the.Netherlands
patax
next.to
iki.
cop
‘Germany is next to the Netherlands (I saw it on a map).’
. A comparative overview of evidentiality in Panoan
Based on the available literature, in this section I briefly examine compara-
tive data regarding the grammatical coding of evidentiality in Panoan and put
forward a few observations. Given the fact that Panoan languages are underde-
scribed (if not simply undescribed) and the lack of studies focusing on eviden-
tiality in the individual languages, this overview cannot be exhaustive and my
conclusions are necessarily provisional.
For the purposes of the present comparison, I divide Panoan languages
in two groups: the Ucayali group to which SK, Kapanawa, and Wariapano
belong; and the non-Ucayali group which includes Kashibo-Kakataibo, Mat-
ses, Kashinawa, and Chakobo. The four non-Ucayali languages can be seen as
representing distinct branches of Panoan (Shell 1975; Loos 1999).
. The non-Ucayali languages
.. Kashibo-Kakataibo
So far, only one evidential has been described for Kashibo-Kakataibo, the sec-
ond position reportative clitic -ísa (Shell 1978). Note that Kashibo-Kakataibo
-ísa does not resemble the SK reportatives; i.e. -ronki and -ki.
.. Matses
From Kneeland’s (1979) description of Matses, I conclude that this language
exhibits a set of evidential suffixes that take part in the verb morphology and
may precede tense-aspect and person inflection. Apparently, evidentials are re-
stricted to the past. The morpheme -Ø indicates that the speaker has directly
witnessed the event described (but cf. Kneeland 1979:42, fn. 1, where -c14
is
listed instead). This marker may be used, for instance, when the speaker states
that a place is far away, and s/he has actually been to that place; or that a certain
object is in a basket, and s/he has in fact seen it inside the basket.
A second verbal marker, -ac, is described as indicating knowledge inferred
from observable facts (Kneeland 1979:50, 131–132). For example, -ac could
be used in the expression ‘He has killed a peccary’ when the speaker has not
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.22 (54)
 Pilar M. Valenzuela
directly witnessed the event but sees the hunter carrying the dead peccary; or
to say that a jaguar passed by a certain place after having found the traces left
by it. By contrast, -ash encodes assumed information, lack of circumstantial
evidence (Kneeland 1979:149).
Further investigation might reveal the existence of other evidentials in
Matses. What I would like to highlight here is that the Matses suffixes
above differ from Kashibo-Kakataibo -ísa and the Kashinawa markers to be
introduced below.
.. Kashinawa
Camargo (1996a and 1996b) provides an analysis of “modal markers” in
Kashinawa. Some of these morphemes may be interpreted as evidentials. Ca-
margo (1996a) describes a set of modals that follow the predicate and form
a single paradigm.15
An important point illustrated by Camargo is that these
markers remain optional in Kashinawa. All her examples are in the declarative.
-Ki means that the speaker presents herself as the source of information,
has directly experienced the situation described, is certain, assumes responsi-
bility for the information, and presents the statement as something that cannot
be contested. In comparison to -ki, -bin indicates a stronger statement or en-
gagement on the part of the speaker; however, -bin may also indicate surprise
and inference. Camargo translates -bin as ‘vraiment’.
-KGn is described as a “subjective” marker, expressing personal experience
or knowledge exclusive to the speaker. It is translated by Camargo into French
as ‘selon moi’ ‘according to me’. In contrast, -kin indicates collective or public
knowledge already integrated by the Kashinawa community, even if it is recent.
Historical narratives, myths, costums are narrated using -kin.
The “constatative” -ka may be translated as ‘as you say’, ‘effectivement’ ‘ef-
fectively’. It means that the speaker picks up somebody else’s utterance; -ka
may also indicate concession, surprise, astonishment, amazement, compli-
ment, or approval.
-Iki is called a “médiatif” ‘mediative’ and is translated by Camargo into
French as ‘on dit que’ ‘they say’, ‘il paraît que’ ‘it appears that’. Apparently, -iki
indicates lack of personal commitment on the part of the speaker. -Iki may
co-occur with -ka and unexpectedly with -ki.
.. Chakobo
Following Prost (1965), Chakobo has a reportative particle of the form ki‘a;
this marker may be related to the SK reportative -ki. Other morphemes listed
by Prost that may have evidential(-like) functions are: -kara, provisionally
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.23 (55)
Evidentiality in Shipibo-Konibo 
Table 2. Waripano Person-Marked Evidentials
Person Direct Reportative
1 -ra ?
2 -ra-ma -ronki-mi
3 -ra ?
1pl -ra-na ?
2pl -ra-ma ?
3pl -ra -ronki
described as indicating ‘that which seems to be true for the speaker’ (Prost
1965:87, my translation), pGrG ‘certainly/surely’, mitsa ‘may be/could be’, -tiari
‘probably’, and ‘o expectation.
. The Ucayali languages
.. Kapanawa
Loos and Loos (1998:24) refer to a set of evidential particles in Kapanawa that
occur after the first major constituent of a declarative sentence. These particles
are: ra ‘perhaps’, ki reportative (like in SK, ki may occur more than once in a
complex sentence, Loos & Loos 1998:27), ronki reportative, ka‘en ‘of course, as
you may know’ (p. 122), and s visible evidence.
Additionally, Loos and Loos include a set of sentence-final particles; some
of which may be evidentials: kan ‘of course’ (also translated into Spanish as
‘pues’), ra‘ka ‘probably’, and ki ‘certainty’ (labeled ‘fact’ in Loos 1999:246); cf.
Kashinawa -ki. Ki occurs also in questions (Loos & Loos 1998:25).
.. Wariapano
Valenzuela (2000) analyzes the scarce data on Wariapano (Navarro 1903;
Parker, Sinuiri, & Ramírez 1992) and concludes that in this language -ra and
-ronki function roughly like in SK. A distinctive feature of Wariapano, however,
is that it has developed person/number inflection on evidentials (also a vowel
harmony process seems to be at work). Unfortunately, there is not enough data
to provide complete paradigms. Consider the data in Table 2 (from Valenzuela
2000, based on the examination of the data in Parker, Sinuiri, & Ramírez 1992).
Certain Panoan languages exhibit constructions containing a pronominal
form which is coreferential with a previous full nominal or free pronoun in
the same clause. These anaphoric pronouns tend to follow the first major sen-
tence constituent and operate on a non-ergative basis. Valenzuela claims that
person-marked evidentials in Wariapano might have originated from the en-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.24 (56)
 Pilar M. Valenzuela
cliticization of these coreferential pronouns on the evidential markers (2000
and references therein).
. Evidentiality as an innovative feature
The four non-Ucayali languages exhibit very different evidential(-like) mark-
ers. While Kashibo-Kakataibo and Chakobo have specific morphemes to en-
code second-hand information, neither Matses nor Kashinawa have a dedi-
cated reportative. Kashibo-Kakataibo -ísa does not resemble the reportative in
any other sister language, but Chakobo ki‘a contains the sequence /ki/ also
found in the Ucayali reportatives and the Kashinawa ‘médiatif’.
The markers described for Matses may correspond to direct, inferen-
tial, and supposed evidentials; Kashinawa appears to mark direct knowledge,
knowledge exclusive to the speaker, collective knowledge, and other functions
not easily identifiable with a single evidential meaning. However, the mor-
phemes that seem to encode direct evidentiality in Matses and Kashinawa differ
greatly in form.16
Kashinawa shares with Kapanawa the morpheme ki indicat-
ing certainty/fact. Finally, only Matses evidential(-like) markers take part in the
verb morphology and may be restricted to the past.
Turning to the Ucayali languages, Kapanawa shares with SK the reporta-
tives ronki and ki but employs ra as a dubitative rather than as a direct evi-
dential, and has a visible evidence marker s absent in SK. As for Wariapano,
this language shares the reportative -ronki with Kapanawa and SK, and the di-
rect evidential -ra with SK, but differs from all other languages in that certain
evidentials carry overt person/number inflection.
As mentioned above, both Kapanawa and Kashinawa have the certainty/fact
marker ki; the sequence /ki/ is also present in the Kashinawa “médiatif ”, as well
as in the Chakobo and Ucayali reportatives.
In sum, evidentials in languages belonging to different branches of Panoan
differ greatly not only in form but also in the semantico-pragmatic categories
they encode.17
Although evidential(-like) morphemes involving the sequence
/ki/ are found in Kashinawa, Chakobo, and the Ucayali languages, these mor-
phemes do not always encode the same meaning, and it may be the case that
/ki/ rather corresponds to a common verb of saying (cf. §3.3). Hence, pre-
liminary evidence suggests that not one evidential could be reconstructed for
Proto-Panoan. This conclusion is compatible with Aikhenvald and Dixon’s
(1998:245–246) hypothesis that evidentiality systems in some languages of
Southern Amazonia, including Panoan, may have a relatively recent origin.
Aikhenvald and Dixon point out that in these languages evidentiality is ex-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.25 (57)
Evidentiality in Shipibo-Konibo 
pressed through particles or clitics, evidentials do not interact with tense-
aspect distinctions in the way they do in Tucanoan and other languages, and
non-cognate markers are found even in languages pertaining to the same fam-
ily. An interesting counterexample to these generalizations within Panoan is
found in the northernmost language Matses, where evidentials take part in the
verb inflection and seem to be restricted to the past.
Although future research might show that some of the interpretations
in this section need revision and/or that other evidentials must be added to
the languages represented in this survey, I expect that the general conclusions
will hold.
. Final remarks
I have shown that SK marks evidentiality on two different layers. The first layer
consists of a direct versus reportative distinction. -Ra, -ronki, and the inter-
rogative -ki form a single paradigm and are mutually exclusive. These three
morphemes may be given an evidential interpretation: respectively, first-hand
information, second-hand information, and request for second-hand informa-
tion (i.e. for information that will count as second-hand for the one posing the
question). On a second layer, two additional evidential values can be encoded
as a specification upon the basic distinction: inference (-bira) and speculation
or guessing (-mein).
Besides their evidential functions, -ra extends to certainty, -bira to prob-
ability, and -mein to doubt and mirativity. Crucially, -ra combines with -bira
and -mein, where no certainty regarding the information can be claimed. If
-ra, -bira, and -mein were epistemic markers solely, certain combinations in
the data would render contradictory meanings such as: ‘I am sure that I doubt’.
While certainty can be derived from direct sensory experience, the reverse sit-
uation seems less plausible. Additionally, the selection of -ronki over -ra does
not indicate uncertainty or a lesser degree of reliability but simply reported
information. Also, the use of -ra in the context of European innovations re-
inforces its analysis as a first-hand evidential, while -ronki has been extended
from coding information one has heard to information one has read.
Evidentials in SK are clitics that do not take part in the obligatory verb
inflection. While inference and speculation are marked overtly, direct and re-
ported information need only be coded in the first of a string of clauses, with
zero-marking an option in subsequent clauses. Nevertheless, I argue that ev-
identiality is “obligatory” in the sense that the evidential value of the infor-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.26 (58)
 Pilar M. Valenzuela
mation has always been grammatically marked in the forgoing discourse and
is clear to native speakers. Further research is needed to offer an exhaustive,
more refined account of the SK system, including rules for the overt mark-
ing and omission of -ra and -ronki, and the clause elements that host the
inferential -bira.
As for evidentials and cultural attitudes, I believe the use of the direct evi-
dential when describing events experienced under the influence of ayahuasca,
as opposed to the reportative when narrating one’s own dreams, is very reveal-
ing of Shipibo worldview. While ayahuasca visions are part of reality, dreams
are not, and this distinction is encoded in the system.
The grammatical coding of evidentiality is an innovative feature in Panoan,
and the languages seem to be developing/have developed an evidential sys-
tem more or less independently from each other. Comparing evidential sys-
tems might prove useful in the subclassification of the family. Furthermore,
Panoan languages provide an ideal situation to study how evidentiality may
emerge. Another important question awaiting investigation has to do with the
motivations for the development of evidentiality in Panoan.
Notes
. I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the following Shipibo collaborators for
their significant help and valuable insights; for each person, the Shipibo name is given fol-
lowed by the Spanish name within parentheses: Ronon Meni (Evaristo López Magín), Yoi
Sani (Luis Márquez Pinedo), Ranin Ama (Agustina Valera Rojas), Kesin Beso (Oseas Bar-
barán Sánchez), Ranin Nita (Hagner Valera Rodríguez), and Sanken Bari (Rafael Urquía
Odicio). Ichabires iráke! Special thanks are also due to Bernard Comrie and the scholars par-
ticipating in the International Workshop on Evidentiality, in particular Sasha Aikhenvald,
for their useful comments on a previous version of this article. Remaining infelicities are my
sole responsibility. In this work, the symbols of the official SK alphabet are used, except for
the following modifications: x represents the voiceless retroflex sibilant /‰ / and Á stands for
the voiceless glottal stop. As in the official alphabet, j represents the voiceless glottal fricative
/h/, e stands for the high central vowel /G/, and Vn for nasalized vowels. Generally, SK words
bear primary stress on the first syllable unless the second syllable is closed, in which case the
latter is stressed. In words deviating from this rule, primary stress is indicated with an acute
accent. The sources of the illustrative sentences contained in this chapter are indicated unless
they come from my own fieldnotes; the analysis of all the examples is my responsibility.
. Combinations of -bira and -mein with the reportative -ronki are potentially ambiguous.
First, the speaker may be reporting someone else’s inferences or speculations; secondly, the
speaker may be expressing her own inferences or speculations, drawn from what she has
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.27 (59)
Evidentiality in Shipibo-Konibo 
heard. While both possibilities were accepted in elicitation, only the latter has been attested
in text (e.g. example (26)). This interesting point requires further research.
. In this respect, -ra is comparable to the “endoclitic” in Udi (Harris 2000) and, as pointed
out to me by Martin Haspelmath, to the “mesoclitic” in European Portuguese.
. The distribution of -ronki and -ra may be comparable to that of tense and evidential
marking in the Algonquian language Ojibwe (Rhodes, p.c. 2001). I would like to thank Rich
Rhodes for sharing his Ojibwe data and valuable insights with respect to this point.
. At present I cannot provide any explanation for the presence of two reportatives in this
context.
. Shell (1975) employs the term Reconstructed-Panoan instead of Proto-Panoan given that
her comparative reconstrucion is mainly based on the languages spoken in Peru. However,
Reconstructed-Panoan and Proto-Panoan are not expected to differ in any significant way.
. -Bira is also found in indefinite constructions:
Tso-a-ra
who-abs-dir.ev
sai
cry.out.for.help
i-bira-i.
doi-bira-inc
‘Somebody is crying out for help.’
Kesiman-ra
Kesin:erg-dir.ev
e-a
1-abs
bo-ma-iba-ke
carry-caus-pst2-cmpl
westíora
one
jawe-bira-ribi...
what:abs-bira-also
‘Kesin sent me something...’
-Bira might have arisen from the combination of the emphatic -bi plus -ra. There is also the
sequence -bi-ra commonly found on concessive clauses. This is analyzable into -bi, emphatic
yielding a concessive meaning when appended to an adverbial clause, plus -ra indicating
direct evidentiality.
On non-verbal elements, -bira can often be replaced by the comparative keská which in this
context can be translated as ‘it seems that, I think that’. Although keská can play an evidential
function, its basic meaning is that of a comparative or similative like in examples (20) and
(30a); therefore, keská is best analyzed as an “evidential strategy” in the sense of Aikhenvald,
Chapter 1 of this volume.
. Identified as Lonchocarpus sp., Tephrosia sp., Leguminosae; Jacques Tournon, p.c.
. According to Sanken Bari, the term benta was used by the Inkas to refer to the Shipibo.
. In addition to -mein, the emphatic -bi, the contrastive -kaya, or a periphrastic verb form
involving a doubled auxiliary may be used to encode mirativity.
. According to Loriot, Lauriault & Day (1993:241), the use of -mein in this context indi-
cates expectancy that the answer will be positive. This alleged function of -mein (in contra-
diction with its role in example (35)) was disconfirmed by the Shipibo speakers with whom
I consulted.
. One exception is procedural speech (i.e. the description of a process such as how to
prepare manioc beer) where a speaker may use the reportative even when she has previously
carried out the activity at hand herself. This point requires further research.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.28 (60)
 Pilar M. Valenzuela
. This function of -ronki is similar to the Spanish dizque or dice que ‘third-person says
that’ employed when opening a description of one’s own dream. Hence, the example at
hand could be translated as “Dice que yo estaba parada en medio de un arrozal...”
. Kneeland employs <c> to represent [‘] and [k].
. But cf. Camargo (1996b:3) where -ki is said to occur at the end of the utterance, with
the possibility of moving to other positions in order to mark emphasized elements.
. Based on my analysis of the data, I am assuming that the direct evidential marker in
Matses is not -c, despite Kneeland’s (1979) claim cited above.
. This situation differs from the one described by Tournadre (1996:198) for some Ti-
betan dialects in which the verbal auxiliaries marking evidentiality exhibit different forms
but encode the same basic evidential distinctions.
References
Aikhenvald, A. Y., & Dixon, R. M. W. (1998). Evidentials and areal typology: a case study
from Amazonia. Language Sciences, 20(3), 241–257.
Camargo, E. (1996a). Valeurs médiatives en caxinaua [Mediative values in Caxinaua.] In
Z. Zlatka Guentchéva (Ed.), L’énonciation médiatisée (pp. 271–284). Louvain-Paris:
Editions Peeters.
—— (1996b). Des marqueurs modaux en caxinaua. [Modal markers in Caxinaua.]
Amerindia, revue d’ethnolinguistique amérindienne, 21, 1–20.
Canayo, A. (1993). Ponsen Ainbo. In F. García (compiler), Etnohistoria Shipibo. Tradición
Oral de los Shipibo-Conibo (pp. 189–191). Lima: Centro Amazónico de Antropología y
Aplicación Práctica.
Faust, N. (1973). Lecciones para el aprendizaje del idioma shipibo-conibo. [Lessons for learning
the Shipibo-Konibo language.] Documento de trabajo n.1. Yarinacocha, Pucallpa:
Instituto Lingüístico de Verano.
Fucshico (1998). Non requenbaon shinan. El origen de la cultura shipibo-conibo. Leyendas-
historias-costumbres-cuentos. [The origin of the Shipibo-Konibo culture. Legends-stories-
customs-tales.] Yarinacocha, Pucallpa: Fundación Cultural Shipibo-Conibo.
Hardman, M. J. (1986). Data-source marking in the Jaqi languages. In W. Chafe & J. Nichols
(Eds.), Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology (pp. 113–136). New York:
Ablex.
Harris, A. C. (2000). Where in the word is the Udi clitic? Language, 76(3), 593–616.
Inuma, T. M. (1993). Incan Baque. In F. García (compiler), Etnohistoria Shipibo. Tradición
Oral de los Shipibo-Conibo (pp. 15–44). Lima: Centro Amazónico de Antropología y
Aplicación Práctica.
Kneeland, H. (1979). Lecciones para el aprendizaje del idioma mayoruna. [Lessons for learning
the Mayoruna languages.] Yarinacocha, Pucallpa: Ministerio de Educación del Perú and
Instituto Lingüístico de Verano.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:03 F: TSL5402.tex / p.29 (61)
Evidentiality in Shipibo-Konibo 
Loos, E. (1999). Pano. In R. M. W. Dixon & A. Y. Aikhenvald (Eds.), The Amazonian
languages, Cambridge Language Surveys (pp. 227–250). Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
Loos, E., & Loos, B. (1998). Diccionario capanahua-castellano. [Capanahua-Castellano
Dictionary.] Yarinacocha, Pucallpa: Instituto Lingüístico de Verano.
Loriot, J., Lauriault, E., & Day, D. (1993). Diccionario shipibo-castellano. [Shipibo-Castellano
Dictionary.] Serie Lingüística Peruana, n.31. Yarinacocha, Pucallpa: Centro Amazónico
de Lenguas Autóctonas Hugo Pesce.
Ministerio de Educación and Instituto Lingüístico de Verano (ILV). (1979). Quirica 9, Libro
No. 9 – Afianzamiento para la Lectura, edición experimental, Shipibo-Conibo con
traducción al castellano. Yarinacocha, Pucallpa: Ministerio de Educación and Instituto
Lingüístico de Verano.
Navarro, M. (1903). Vocabulario castellano-quechua-pano, con sus respectivas gramáticas
quechua y pana. [Spansih-Quechua-Pano vocabulary, with a Quechua and a Pano
grammar.] Lima: Imprenta del Estado.
Parker, S., Sinuiri Nunta, A., & Ramírez Cairuna, A. (1992). Datos del idioma huariapano.
[Data of the Huariapano language.] Documento de trabajo n. 24. Yarinacocha, Pucallpa:
Instituto Lingüístico de Verano and Ministerio de Educación.
Prost, G. (1965). Chacobo. In E. Matteson (Ed.), Gramáticas estructurales de las lenguas
bolivianas, tomo II. Riberalta, Beni: Instituto Lingüístico de Verano and Ministerio de
Educación y Bellas Artes de Bolivia.
Shell, O. (1975). Las lenguas pano y su reconstrucción. [Pano languages and their
reconstruction.] Estudios Panos III, Serie Lingüística Peruana, n.12, edited by E. Loos.
Yarinacocha, Pucallpa: Instituto Lingüístico de Verano and Ministerio de Educación.
—— (1978). Los modos del cashibo y el análisis del performativo. [Cashibo moods and
the analysis of the performative.] In E. Loos (Ed.), Estudios Panos I (pp. 23–62).
Yarinacocha, Pucallpa: Ministerio de Educación and Instituto Lingüístico de Verano.
Soi Rawa (1995). Soi Rawa: joni benatian non moabo ipaoni [Soi Rawa: the life of the first
Shipibos], edited by Programa de Formación de Maestros Bilingües de la Amazonía
Peruana. Lima: Asociación Interétnica de Desarrollo de la Selva Peruana and Instituto
Superior Pedagógico Loreto.
Tournadre, N. (1996). Comparaison des systèmes médiatifs de quatre dialectes tibétains
(tibétain central, ladakhi, dzongkha et amdo). [A comparison of the mediative
systems of four Tibetan dialects (Central Tibetan, Ladakhi, Dzongkha and Amdo)].
In Z. Guentchéva (Ed.), L’énonciation médiatisée. pp. 195–213. Louvain-Paris: Éditions
Peeters.
Tournon, J. (1991). Medicina y visiones: canto de un curandero shipibo-conibo, texto y
contexto. [Medicine and vision: a chant of a Shipibo-Konibo shaman,text and context.]
Amerindia, revue d’ethnolinguistique amérindienne, 16, 179–209.
Valenzuela, P. M. (2000). Case-marking and person-marked evidentials in Wariapano: a
synchronic and diachronic approach. Ms. Paper presented at the Meeting of the Society
for the Study of the Indigenous Languages of the Americas. Chicago, January 2000.
Wistrand, L. M. (1969). Folkloric and linguistic analyses of Cashibo narrative prose. Ph.D.
dissertation, The University of Texas at Austin.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:46 F: TSL5403.tex / p.1 (63)
Chapter 3
Evidentiality in Qiang*
Randy J. LaPolla
. Introduction
The Qiang language is spoken by about 70,000 (out of 200,000) Qiang peo-
ple, plus 50,000 people classified as Tibetan by the Chinese government. Most
Qiang speakers live in Aba Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture on the
eastern edge of the Tibetan plateau in the mountainous northwest part of
Sichuan Province, China.2
The Qiang language is a member of the Qiangic
branch of the Tibeto-Burman family of the Sino-Tibetan stock. Within Tibeto-
Burman, a number of languages show evidence of evidential systems,3
but these
systems cannot be reconstructed to any great time depth. The data used in
this chapter is from Ronghong Village, Chibusu District, Mao County in Aba
Prefecture.
Qiang is a verb-final language, with complex agglutinative morphology
on the verb, including direction marking prefixes, negation marking prefixes,
aspect marking prefixes and suffixes, person marking suffixes, and evidential
marking suffixes. There is no tense marking, only perfective, experiential (‘al-
ready’), continuative (‘yet, still’), change of state, and prospective aspect mark-
ing. The full set of prefix and suffix types and their positions is given in Di-
agram 1 (not all of these affixes can occur together), and a few examples are
given in (1)–(4) (see LaPolla in press, LaPolla to appear, for other aspects of
Qiang grammar).
(1) q"
1sg
ts6
water
tu-ósu-z̧-ja.
or-boil-caus-csm+1sg
(< ji-")4
‘I brought the water to a boil.’
(2) t6-wa-j6-ji-ji
or-big-ra-csm-2pl
j6.
say
‘He said you(pl) have gotten big again.’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:46 F: TSL5403.tex / p.2 (64)
 Randy J. LaPolla
(3) p"n6-le
thing-def
B"-ó6̊-k-6n.
or-broken-infr-2sg
‘It seems you broke the thing.’ (inference from seeing the broken pieces in
the person’s hands)
(4) xs6
again
mep
z̧6-l6-m
look.for-come-nmlz
i-p6-l-j6-k-ui.5
or-arrive-come-ra-infr-hs
‘Again someone came looking (for him).’ (lit. ‘One who was looking for
him came again, it is said.’) (from a traditional story)
Diagram 1. The structure of the Qiang verb complex
prefixes 1. intensifying adverb
2. direction/orientation prefix or 3rd person indirect directive marking
prefix (or the two combined as one syllable)
3. simple negation /m6-/ or prohibitive /t.6-/ prefix
4. continuative aspect marking prefix /t.i-/
VERB ROOT
suffixes 5. causative marking suffix /-z̧/
6. prospective aspect marking suffix /-":/
7. auxiliary directional verb /k6/ ‘go’ or /l6/ ‘come’
8. repetition marking suffix /-j6/
9. change of state /-ji/ aspect marking suffix
10. 1st or 2nd person indirect directive marking suffix
11. inferential evidential and mirative marking suffix /-k/
12. visual evidential marking suffix /-u/
13. non-actor person marking
14. actor person marking (1sg /-"/, 2sg /-n/, 1pl /-6p/, 2pl /-i/, 3pl /-t.i/)
15. hearsay evidential marking /-i/
. Organization of the system
The evidential system in Qiang basically has three terms, visual, inferred/mira-
tive, and reported marking (the B1 type discussed in Chapter 1), but it does not
necessarily involve marking of the evidential category on all clauses, and there
are complications related to verb types and combinations of forms. The infer-
ential can appear together with the hearsay or visual marker, therefore it may
be seen as two systems rather than three paradigmatically related items in one
system. The actor person marking, when used without the inferential/mirative
marker, also is involved in expressing an evidential meaning, in that it implies
direct observation, and cannot be used with the hearsay marker.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:46 F: TSL5403.tex / p.3 (65)
Evidentiality in Qiang 
In general, an unmarked clause is assumed to represent knowledge that
the speaker is sure of, most probably, but not necessarily, from having seen
the situation or event first-hand, and so, for witnessed events, the evidential
marking is not obligatory, as in (1) and (2). If the overt visual marker, [-u ∼
-wu] is used (see (5a) below), then the source is definitely visual. This marker is
actually rarely used, and is difficult to elicit from linguistically naive speakers.
It is used only when the actor of the clause is animate, and usually only when
it is necessary to emphasize that the speaker actually saw the other person(s)
carry out the action. This form is used together with the actor person marking
suffixes, but use of the person marking suffixes alone can also imply visual
observation, as in (5b).
(5) a. the:
3sg
ŒdŒyt":
Chengdu+loc
B"-q6-(w)u.
or-go-vis
‘He went to Chengdu.’ (used in a situation where the speaker saw the
person leave and that person has not yet returned)
b. ‘ũ
2sg
t.eóun
marry
tu-pu-ji-n.
or-do-csm-2sg
‘You got married.’ (I saw you get married)
If the speaker is not completely sure of the information being presented in the
utterance, which generally means s/he did not witness it, then one of the non-
visual markers is obligatory. In reporting second-hand or third-hand knowl-
edge of some situation or event the speaker is unsure of, the hearsay marking
suffix /-i/ is used after the verb. Only one token of the hearsay marker is used
in a clause; it cannot be repeated to show the number of sources between the
speaker and the event, as in Tsafiki (Dickinson 2000).
Statements that represent ‘just discovered’ information (mirative) or in-
formation based on inference derived from some physical or other non-visual
evidence take the suffix /-k/ after the change of state marker, if there is one, but
before the prospective aspect and person marking (if there is any – 3sg animate
and all inanimates are unmarked), a different position in the verb complex
from the narrative evidential marking. In some contexts, this marker, partic-
ularly in combination with the hearsay marker, can be used to mark simple
uncertainty (not necessarily inference).
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:46 F: TSL5403.tex / p.4 (66)
 Randy J. LaPolla
. The semantics of the system
The unmarked verb form can be used for visual evidence, and for generally
known facts and for observations that lead to a strong conclusion, such as if
you say ‘He is a strong man’ when you see him do something that makes that
obvious. In this latter case, use of the inferential marker would be optional, and
would imply less certainty.
The visual and inferential evidential markers can be used for past events
(as in examples (5a–b)) or ongoing events, but not future events. The visual
marker [-u ∼ -wu] is only used for visual sensory information, not other types
of sensory information. If you hear some noise, such as the sound of drums
in the next room, and you want to say ‘Someone is playing drums next door’,
you would use the inferential marker, as in (6). Even if you feel something in
your hand but can not see it, the inferential marker, not the visual marker,
would be used.
(6) mi
person
z̧b6
drum
z̧ete-k!
beat-infr
‘Someone is playing drums (it seems to me from hearing a noise that
sounds like drums).’
The visual marker is used together with the actor person marking. In most
cases the person marking reflects the person and number of the actor of the
clause, the usual situation with the person marking, as in (7a), but in the case
of a 3sg actor, which would normally have zero person marking, it is possible to
add 1sg person marking in order to particularly emphasize that the speaker saw
the person do the action, as in (7b) (the resulting form, [w"], is to be distin-
guished from the clause-final emphatic particle /w"/, which appears in (7a)).
(7) a. themle
3pl
jimi
fertilizer
de-se-ji-wu-t.i-w".
or-spread-csm-vis-3pl-emph
‘They spread the fertilizer.’ (I saw them do it)
b. the:
3sg
jimi
fertilizer
de-se-ji-w-".
or-spread-csm-vis-1sg
‘She spread the fertilizer.’ (I saw her spread it)
This same form is also used when the actor is 1sg, but then the meaning is one
of unintentional action, as in (8).
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:46 F: TSL5403.tex / p.5 (67)
Evidentiality in Qiang 
(8) q"
1sg
the:
3sg
t"
loc
de-we-z̧-u-".
or-have/exist-caus-vis-1sg
‘I hit him (accidentally).’ (The context for this was the speaker having
hit the person while leaning back and stretching his arms back without
looking behind him.)
The suffix /-k/ has both an inferential sense and a mirative sense. The inferen-
tial sense is primary when the action involved is an activity, as in (6) and (9a).
The inference may be based on evidence obtained visually or by some other
sense. If what is reported is a state or the resulting state of some action, as in
(9b–c), then the meaning is mirativity (‘just discovered’).6
(9) a. the:
3sg
ŒdŒyt":
Chengdu+loc
B"-q6-k.
or-go-infr
‘He went to Chengdu.’ (Used in a situation where the speaker knew
the person was supposed to go to Chengdu, but wasn’t sure when,
and then saw the person’s luggage gone, so assumed he had left for
Chengdu. /-k/ could not be used if the speaker saw the person leave.)
b. the:
3sg
.t.imi
heart
ŒdŒi-k!
sick-infr
‘He’s unhappy!’ (just discovered; relatively sure, not a guess)
c. dŒy
door
de-z̧ge-ji-k!
or-open-csm-infr
‘The door is open!’ (just discovered; see that the door is open, but
don’t know who opened it)
If the speaker needs to express an inferential sense in talking about a state
or perfective situation, then the speaker would use the adverbial phrase /ósu-
\i/ ‘seems’ or the construction with [-t"n] or [-l"h"n] for marking possibility
(both discussed below), not the inferential marker. For example, if the speaker
feels wind on her back and makes the assumption that the door is open, she
could say (10).
(10) dŒy
door
z̧ge-m-t"n
open-nmlz-appearance
]u6.
cop
‘It appears the door is open.’ / ‘Apparently the door is open.’
Generally the inference marker is used for single instances of an event, such as
if someone was supposed to quit smoking, but then the speaker sees cigarette
butts in an ashtray, the speaker could use the inference marker to comment
that (it seems) the person had smoked. If it was discussed as a habitual action,
then again generally the construction with [t"n] or [l"h"n] would be used.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:46 F: TSL5403.tex / p.6 (68)
 Randy J. LaPolla
(11) the:
3sg
j"n
cigarettes
t‰he-m-t"n
smoke-nmlz-appearance
]u6.
cop
‘S/he might smoke (seems s/he smokes / s/he has the appearance of some-
one who smokes).’
(12) the:
3sg
j"n
cigarettes
t‰he-m-l"-h"n
smoke-nmlz-def-kind
]u6.
cop
‘S/he might smoke (might be a smoker / is a smoking kind of person).’
The inferential/mirative marker is also used together with the person marking,
with the person marking always reflecting the person and number of the actor,
as in (3) and (13), but with first person actors the interpretation is not only that
the action was just discovered, but also that it was unintentional or originally
unknown, as in (14a–b).
(13) themle
3pl
stu"h"
food/rice
s6-t.h6-ji-k-t.i.
or-eat-csm-infr-3pl
‘They have already eaten.’ (inference from seeing used dishes)
(14) a. q"
1sg
dzigů
money
t.y-k-"-\i!
bring-infr-1sg-advm
‘I have money!’ (Used when the speaker originally thought he didn’t
have money, but then opened his wallet and found he did have
money.)
b. (q")
1sg
dŒy
door
B"-m6-su"-k-"!
or-neg-lock-infr-1sg
‘I didn’t lock the door!’ (Used in a situation where the speaker had
thought he had locked the door.)
The suffix /-k/ can appear alone with a mirative sense (e.g. (9b–c)), but often in
these cases the particle [-\i] or [-w"] is added after the inferential marker. The
particle [-\i] is an adverbial marker used also to mark surprise and/or disbelief;
[-w"] is an emphatic marker. Its use with /-k/ gives the construction a stronger
mirative sense. Examples (15a–b) show the use of the suffix /-k/ together with
[-w"] and [-\i] respectively.
(15) a. me:p
rain
de-.i-k-w"!
or-release-infr-emph
‘It’s raining!’ (just discovered; this clause could also mean ‘it has
rained’, with the statement based on inference from having seen the
ground wet)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:46 F: TSL5403.tex / p.7 (69)
Evidentiality in Qiang 
b. the:
3sg
ŒdŒyt":
Chengdu+loc
B"-q6-k-\i!
or-go-infr-advm
‘He went to Chengdu!’ (just discovered)
The suffix /-k/ is used with 1st, 2nd, or 3rd person actors, though with first
and second person actors, /-w"/ is not used to emphasize the sense of ‘just
discovered’; instead /-\i/, /-‰6̊/ or /-\i"u/ is used for first person actors (of these
three, the latter is stronger) and /-\i/ is used for second person actors (/-\i/
can be used for other persons, but if the clause has a second person actor, then
/-\i/ must be used). The combination [-k-w"] is stronger (more certain) than
[-k] alone, but weaker than [-k-\i], which can have the sense that you can’t
believe your own inference, that it is totally unexpected. The auxiliary verb
/tu/ ‘willing, allow’ can also be added after [-k] to weaken (make less certain)
the force of the statement. Following are examples of first and second person
actors ((16) and (17) respectively).
(16) q"
1sg
da-m6̊-k-a-‰6̊!
or-forget-infr-1sg-emph
(if plural, then /k-6p
-‰6̊/)
‘I (just realized I) forgot!’
(17) ‘ũ
2sg
s6
wood
i-t.hi-k-6n-\i!
or-bring.in-infr-2sg-advm
(if plural, then /k-6i-\i/)
‘(I saw) you brought the wood in!’ (just discovered)
The inferential marker, the visual marker, and the person marking can all be
used together for ongoing or past events. This would be possible given a situa-
tion such as having guessed someone was playing drums next door the speaker
went next door and saw the person standing there holding a drum or drum-
sticks. When commenting that ‘He WAS playing drums’, adding (/-k/ + /-u/ >
[ku]) after the verb (see example (18a)) adds the sense of ‘as I had guessed and
now pretty-well confirm’. This interpretation also holds when the clause has a
2nd person actor ([k-u-6n] 2sg, as in (18b), [k-u-i] 2pl) or 3rd person plural
actor ([k-u-6t.i]).
If upon opening the door in that situation the person was still playing
drums, the speaker could say (18c). Adding the 1sg person marking where the
actor is 3sg marks the clause very explicitly as representing information ob-
tained by direct visual observation. The forms with [-k-] and the visual and
person marking contrast with forms without [-k-] in that with the latter do
not imply a previous supposition.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:46 F: TSL5403.tex / p.8 (70)
 Randy J. LaPolla
(18) a. oh,
oh
the:
3sg
z̧b6
drum
z̧ete-k-u!
beat-infr-vis
‘Oh, He WAS playing a drum!’
b. ‘ũ
2sg
ŒdŒyt":
Chengdu
B"-q6-k-u-6n.
or-go-infr-vis-2sg
‘You went to Chengdu’ (as I had assumed, I heard or guessed from
some evidence).
c. oh,
oh
the:
3sg
z̧b6
drum
z̧ete-k-u-"!
beat-infr-vis-1sg
‘Oh, he IS playing a drum!’
If the actor is 1st person, use of the inferential, visual and person marking
together involves an implication not only that the action was done uninten-
tionally and just discovered, as with use of the inferential and person marking
alone, but also that the action was a mistake of some kind, as in (19) (if the
actor was 1pl, then the suffixes would be [k-u-6p
]).
(19) q"
1sg
"p6-t.6-iantu-le:
grandfather-gen-pipe-def+cl
ts"
here
t.y-k-u-".
bring-infr-vis-1sg
‘I mistakenly brought grandfather’s pipe here.’
Usually no marking of evidentials is necessary in retelling dreams, as long as
the speaker remembers the dream clearly, but if not, then the speaker would
use the adverbial phrase /ósu-\i/ ‘seems’ or the construction with [-t"n] or
[-l"h"n] for marking possibility (both discussed below), not the inferential or
hearsay markers. When retelling some event witnessed on TV the unmarked
form can also be used, but often the hearsay marker would be used (the visual
marker cannot be used), as when retelling something heard on the radio. There
is no special marking for information that is not to be taken literally, such as
metaphors or sarcasm.
The hearsay marking suffix /-i/, derived from the verb [j6 ∼ ji] ‘to say’, is
used to mark hearsay of future or presently ongoing events (e.g. ‘I heard he’s
leaving’) or relatively recent past events, as in (20) (could be up to 40–50 years,
but generally not ancient history, though there are exceptions).
(20) the:
3sg
ŒdŒyt":
Chengdu+loc
B"-q6-i.
or-go-hs
‘He went to Chengdu (I heard).’
The hearsay marker is used only for hearsay, and not for simple uncertainty,
when it is used alone. It can also appear in narratives recounting distant past
events (e.g. example (21), the first line in the traditional creation story), but
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:46 F: TSL5403.tex / p.9 (71)
Evidentiality in Qiang 
generally in distant past narratives (story-telling) it is used together with the
inferential marker, to show a greater degree of uncertainty, as in example (22),
the first line of another traditional story.7
The hearsay marking is not used
together with 2nd person marking (e.g. (23)). Unlike in Jarawara (Chapter 7),
the hearsay particle is not used in clauses with a 2nd person actor to remind
the person of what they said.
(21) qep
lot‰u-t",
before-loc
mutu-l"
heaven-loc
mujuqů
sun
z̧gu6-zi
nine-cl
we-i.
have/exist-hs
‘(It is said) in the past there were nine suns in the sky.’
(22) qep
:-qe:p
-tu
before-before-lnk
B"l"
int
k"p6t‰
orphan
kou
indef+one+cl
]u6-k-6i-t.u.
cop-infr-hs-sfp
‘(It is said) in the past there was an orphan.’
(23) ‘ũ
2sg
t.eóun
marry
tu-pu-ji-i-\i!
or-do-asp-hs-advm
‘(I heard) you got married!’
Generally there is no difference between second-hand and third-hand reported
information, but if the hearsay marker is used in a clause with 1sg marking
on the verb, as in (24), the utterance must be interpreted as similar to a di-
rect quote (even though the actor is 3rd person), with the assumption being
that, for example in (24), that the referent mentioned in (24) himself told the
speaker of (24) that he (the referent mentioned in (24)) is unhappy.8
If instead
the verb root is the third person form plus the hearsay marker (i.e. would be
[ŒdŒi-i] in (24)), then the implication is that someone else told the speaker the
other person was unhappy.
(24) the:
3sg
.t.imi
heart
ŒdŒa-i
sick+1sg-hs
(< ŒdŒi-"-i)
‘He’s unhappy (he told me).’
. Evidential strategies
Two other types of marking might be considered evidential strategies rather
than evidential marking. The adverbial particle /ósu-\i/ can be added to the
end of the clause, after the verb complex (and so does not take person mark-
ing), to show uncertainty about some information. This adverbial functions
something like English ‘seem’, taking the whole clause in its scope. The (se-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:46 F: TSL5403.tex / p.10 (72)
 Randy J. LaPolla
mantically) main clause may or may not take the hearsay evidential marker /-i/
(compare (25) and (26)).
(25) the:
3sg
ŒdŒyt":
Chengdu+loc
B"-q6-i
or-go-hs
ósu-\i.
seem-advm
‘S/he went to Chengdu.’ (guessing, unsure if true)
(26) ŒdŒyt":
Chengdu+loc
le
exist
ósu-\i.
seem-advm
‘It seems (he) lives in Chengdu.’
For expressing contingent (‘it is possible that’, ‘perhaps’) situations, often a
construction involving a clause nominalized by /-m/, plus [l"-h"n ∼ l"-h6n]
(definite marker + ‘kind’), [k"-h"n ∼ ka-h6n] (indefinite marker + ‘kind’), or
/t"n/ (‘appearance’), and the copula is used. This is structurally similar to the
Japanese yoo-da and soo-da constructions (see Aoki 1986). Following are ex-
amples of a direct evidential (27a) and a construction using the nominalizer
/-m/ plus /t"n/ (27b). The question particle [lutu"] can be added to the end of
a [t"n/l"h"n] clause to make the statement even more of an uncertainty (as in
(47d) below).9
(27) a. the:
3sg
th"
there
z̧i.
exist
‘S/he is there.’
b. the:
3sg
th"-z̧i-m-t"n
there-exist-nmlz-appearance
]u6.
cop
‘S/he might be there.’
An expression with [-m-t"n] is more of a certainty than one with [ósu-(\i)]
‘seems’. The former can also be used for non-past events.
To make a strong statement of certainty, or of information that was not re-
cently discovered, but known for some time, then a clause nominalized by /-s/
is used without /t"n/ or /l"-h6n/. This is an evidential strategy with epistemic
extensions. This form can’t be used for past/perfective actions.
(28) p6s
today
z̧mu
meeting
tsu-s
hold-nmlz
]u6.
cop
‘There is a meeting today.’ (set and known about beforehand)
(29) the:
3sg
th"-z̧i-s
there-exist-nmlz
]u6.
cop
‘S/he is definitely there.’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:46 F: TSL5403.tex / p.11 (73)
Evidentiality in Qiang 
. Correlations with other grammatical categories
Use of evidential marking in a question is not obligatory, as long as no assump-
tions about the source of the addressee’s information are made, but if it is used,
in the case of the visual or hearsay marking it would imply the assumption that
the hearer saw (visual, as in (30)), or heard about (hearsay, as in (31)), the ac-
tion being questioned. It is the action that is questioned, not the source of the
information.
(30) the:
3sg
B"-q6-u
or-go-vis
]u"?
q
‘Did he go?’
(31) the:
3sg
B"-q6-i
or-go-hs
]u"?
q
‘Did he go?’
If the speaker of a question assumes the addressee of the question also does
not have visual evidence of information about the situation being asked about
(though knows more about the situation than the speaker), the inferential
particle can be used in the question, as in (32):
(32) the:
3sg
h"-q6-k
or-go-infr
]u"?
q
‘Did he go?’
The form used by the one responding to the question would then depend on
the source of that person’s information, visual, inference or hearsay.
If the speaker is asking the addressee about his or her own actions, then
the inferential marker can still be used, but in this case would not represent a
presupposition that the addressee is also not clear about the situation. Instead
it would represent a guess about some aspect of the question, for example in
(33), the guess that Chengdu is the place that the person went to. (The question
marker used in this example also differs from the usual second person question
marker /-"/, in that it implies more of a guess about the situation.)
(33) ‘ũ
2sg
ŒdŒyt":
Chengdu+loc
B"-q6-k-6n
or-go-infr-2sg
dŒa?
q
‘Did you go down to Chengdu?’
Other examples of the use of the inferential marker in questions are given
in (34)–(35). (Example (35) is actually a rhetorical question, from a tradi-
tional story.)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:46 F: TSL5403.tex / p.12 (74)
 Randy J. LaPolla
(34) the:
3sg
ŒdŒyt":
Chengdu+loc
B"-q6-k
or-go-infr
ja?
q
‘Did he go down to Chengdu?’
(35) ‘ũ
2sg
\"
com
q"
1sg
a-q6s
one-form
we-k-":p
have/exist-infr-prosp+1pl
t.i?
q
‘(Could it be) yours and mine are the same?’
The evidential markers can be used with causatives, just as with simplex clauses
(see (8) and (36)).
(36) the:
3sg
B"-q6-z̧-i
or-go-caus-hs
‘He was made to go (I heard).’
It is possible to use the evidential markers in some embedded clauses, with the
acceptability of the marker depending somewhat on the matrix verb (contrast
(37) and (38)).
(37) the:
3sg
pieye
graduate
tu-pu-ji-(u)
or-do-csm-vis
q"
1sg
dŒuků
knowledge
la.
have/exist+1sg
(< le + a)
‘I know he graduated.’
(38) the:
3sg
pieye
graduate
tu-pu-ji-i
or-do-csm-hs
q"
1sg
6-m".
or-hear+1sg
(< m6 + a)
‘I heard he graduated.’
With direct quotes, as in (39), different evidential marking can appear on
the matrix and quoted clauses, e.g. in (39) the inferential marker appears in
the quote, and the narrative marker appears on the verb of saying (from a
traditional narrative).
(39) “ta,
int
q"
1sg
‘ile
2pl
ep
father
]u6-k-",”
cop-infr-1sg
ik6
thus
j6-k-ui.
say-infr-hs
‘(It is said) he said (based on inference from what the two boys had just
said), “Then, I am your father.” ’
In other types of complex sentences, evidential marking can appear either on
only the final clause, when the initial clause has a hypotactic relation to the
second clause, or on both clauses:
(40) the:
3sg
ŒdŒyt":
Chengdu+loc
Ba-q"
or-go
me-t.hi,
neg-want
peit.in-l"
Beijing-loc
d"-t.6-q"-k-6i.
or-yet-go-infr-hs
‘It seems he not only went to Chengdu, he also went to Beijing.’ (I heard,
not too sure)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:46 F: TSL5403.tex / p.13 (75)
Evidentiality in Qiang 
(41) the:
3sg
tu-q-t"
mountain-top-loc
h"-q6-k-6i
or-go-infr-hs
tu,
lnk
t.i
bear
ke:
indef+cl
tu-tsu-k-6i.
or-meet-infr-hs
‘When he went up on the mountain, he ran into a bear.’ (I heard but I’m
not too sure)
(42) the:
3sg
dŒoqu-le:
leg-def+cl
dag6̊-k-(6i),
break-infr-hs
pit.
now
sei
walk
m"-l6̊-jy-k-(6i).
neg-able-asp-infr-hs
‘It seems he broke his leg and now can’t walk.’ (I heard but I’m not too
sure)
There is no marking of evidentials in relative clauses (43), conditional clauses
(44), or imperatives (45a), though the verb of saying can be added to an im-
perative to show that someone told the speaker to order the person to do
something, as in a direct quote (45b).
(43) q"-wu-p"n6-dele-m
1sg-agt-thing-give-nmlz
mi
person
‘the person to whom I gave something’
(44) the:
3sg
mo-lu
neg-come
tu,
lnk
q"-q6i
1sg-self
k":.
go+prosp+1sg
(< k6 + ": + ")
‘If s/he doesn’t come, I’m going to go myself.’
(45) a. ‘ũ
2sg
6-zu6-n!
or-sit-2sg
b. ‘ũ
2sg
6-zu6-n
or-sit-2sg
ji!
say
‘You sit!’ ‘You sit!’ (someone else told me to say that)
. Negation, modality, person, and aspect
If the visual evidential marker is used in the negative, such as to say ‘He didn’t
come’, or ‘It didn’t rain’, there is a presupposition that the speaker has visual
evidence of the person not coming, that is, the speaker was in the place all day,
and so would have seen the person if he had come, or the speaker was outside
all day, and so would have seen it had it rained. When the inferential or hearsay
markers are used with a negative clause (e.g. [m"-t.i-k6-k] [neg-yet-go-infr]
‘(He) hasn’t gone yet’ (inferred from seeing his baggage still in the hallway)),
the implication is that the negative proposition is an inference or hearsay, the
same as with positive propositions. Unlike in Akha (Egerod 1985; Hansson, in
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:46 F: TSL5403.tex / p.14 (76)
 Randy J. LaPolla
press), the evidential particles cannot be negated to express the idea that the
speaker doesn’t know what is happening.
Generally actions performed by oneself do not need to be overtly marked
with evidentials, but the visual evidential can be used with inadvertent actions,
as mentioned above. In the case of one’s mental or physical states, if one is not
sure about some particular state, for example, whether one has caught a cold
or not, usually the construction with [-t"n] or [l"h"n] ‘seems’ would be used,
e.g. ‘It seems like I caught a cold’, as in (46).
(46) q"
1sg
t6-li"n-th"-m-l"-h"n
or-catch.cold-aux-nmlz-def-kind
]u6.
cop
‘I might have caught a cold.’ (cf. English ‘It’s kind of like I caught a cold.’)
. Conclusion
We have seen that Qiang basically has three evidential terms, but the interpre-
tation of these forms relies on the type of activity or situation involved, the
person of the actor, and the combination of markers used. Following is a set
of examples showing the same basic clause with some of the main evidential
possibilities:
(47) a. the:
3sg
tshinpi
intelligent
wa-(u).
very-vis
(certain)10
‘She is intelligent.’
b. the:
3sg
tshinpi
intelligent
wa-k.
very-infr
(just discovered)
‘She is intelligent.’
c. the:
3sg
tshinpi
intelligent
wa-i.
very-hs
(hearsay)
‘She is intelligent.’
d. the:
3sg
tshinpi
intelligent
wa-k
very-infr
lutu".
q
(guess)
‘She is intelligent.’
e. the:
3sg
tshinpi
intelligent
wa-m-t"n
very-nmlz-appearance
]u6.
cop
(possibly)
‘She possibly is intelligent.’
f. the:
3sg
tshinpi
intelligent
wa-m-l"-h"n
very-nmlz-def-kind
]u6.
cop
(possibly)
‘It seems she is intelligent.’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:46 F: TSL5403.tex / p.15 (77)
Evidentiality in Qiang 
Notes
* Fieldwork for this paper was supported by the project “Endangered Languages of the
Pacific Rim”, funded by the Japanese Ministry of Education, Science, Sports, Culture and
Technology. I would like to thank Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald and R. M. W. Dixon for helpful
comments on a draft of this paper.
. The term ‘Qiang’ is an exonym given by the Chinese. Roughly 50,000 of the Qiang speak-
ers are classified as Tibetans by the Mainland authorities, though both groups use the same
name for themselves (/z̧me/ or a dialect variant of this word) when speaking the Qiang
language, which is called /z̧mez̧/ in that language.
. E.g. Rawang, which has a distinction between hearsay and non-hearsay, the former
marked by the particle wā (derived from the verb ‘say’; LaPolla & Poa 2001), Tibetan (De-
Lancey 1986; Woodbury 1986; Sun 1993; Hongladarom 1993; Haller 2000; Huber 2000),
Newar (Hargreaves 1983), Meithei (Chelliah 1997), and Akha (Egerod 1985; Thurgood
1986; Hansson, in press).
. A form given in parentheses to the right of an example is the uncombined form.
. Where an epenthetic vowel is required when a suffix is added, it is represented as part
of the suffix. In this case the [u] in [ui] is epenthetic (a variant of [6], the usual epenthetic
vowel).
. This is reminiscent of the systems in Hare and Sunwari discussed by DeLancey (1997),
where perfective contexts yield an evidential interpretation, and imperfective contexts yield
a mirative interpretation. See also Zeisler (2000) for discussion on the relationship between
tense/aspect and interpretation as mirative or not.
. The combination of inferential and hearsay marking is sometimes pronounced [kui]
in stories, as in (4), but there is no difference in meaning between [k6i] and [kui] in that
context.
. This form contrasts with a direct quote, which would involve a 1st person pronoun and a
full verb of speaking (i), and an indirect quote, which would involve third person forms (ii):
(i) “q"
1sg
.t.imi
heart
ŒdŒa”
sick+1sg
j6.
say
(ii) the:
3sg
.t.imi
heart
ŒdŒi
sick
j6.
say
‘He said “I’m unhappy”.’ ‘He said he’s unhappy.’
. [lutu"], when used alone, marks a type of tag question, but when used with /-k/ or the
construction in (27b), it simply marks the clause as less certain.
. In this case, the visual marker is marking certainty based on observing the person do
intelligent things, but would actually generally not be used. I had difficulty eliciting the
visual evidential with this verb in other dialects, as generally an unmarked form would be
used, hence the parentheses around the visual marker.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:46 F: TSL5403.tex / p.16 (78)
 Randy J. LaPolla
References
Aoki, H. (1986). Evidentials in Japanese. In W. Chafe & J. Nichols (Eds.), Evidentiality: The
linguistic coding of epistemology (pp. 223–238). Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Chelliah, S. L. (1997). A Grammar of Meithei (Mouton Grammar Library 17). Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
DeLancey, S. (1986). Evidentiality and volitionality in Tibetan. In W. Chafe & J. Nichols
(Eds.), Evidentiality: The linguistic coding of epistemology (pp. 203–213). Norwood, NJ:
Ablex.
DeLancey, S. (1997). Mirativity: The grammatical marking of unexpected information.
Linguistic Typology, 1, 33–52.
Dickinson, C. (2000). Mirativity in Tsafiki. Studies in Language, 24, 379–421.
Egerod, S. (1985). Typological features in Akha. In G. Thurgood, J. A. Matisoff, & D. Bradley
(Eds.), Linguistics of the Sino-Tibetan Area: The State of the Art (pp. 96–104). Canberra:
Australian National University.
Haller, F. (2000). Verbal categories of Shigatse Tibetan and Themchen Tibetan. Linguistics of
the Tibeto-Burman Area, 23, 175–191.
Hansson, I.-L. (in press). Akha. In G. Thurgood & R. J. LaPolla (Eds.), The Sino-Tibetan
languages. London: Curzon Press.
Hargreaves, D. (1983). Evidentiality in Newari. M. A. thesis. University of Oregon.
Hongladarom, K. (1993). Evidentials in Tibetan: A dialogic study of the interplay between
form and meaning. Ann Arbor: University Microfilms International.
Huber, B. (2000). Preliminary report on evidential categories in Lende Tibetan (Kyirong).
Linguistics of the Tibeto-Burman Area, 23, 155–174.
LaPolla, R. J., with Huang Chenglong (to appear). A grammar of Qiang, with annotated texts
and glossary. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
LaPolla, R. J. (in press). Qiang. In G. Thurgood & R. J. LaPolla (Eds.), The Sino-Tibetan
Languages. London: Curzon Press.
LaPolla, R. J., & Poa, D. (2001). Rawang texts, with grammatical analysis and English
translation. Berlin: Lincom Europa.
Sun, T.-S. J. (1993). Evidentials in Amdo Tibetan. Bulletin of the Insitute of History and
Philology (63–64): 945–1001.
Thurgood, G. (1986). The nature and origins of the Akha evidential system. In W. Chafe
& J. Nichols (Eds.), Evidentiality: The linguistic coding of epistemology (pp. 214–222).
Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Thurgood, G., Matisoff, J. A., & Bradley, D. (Eds.). (1985). Linguistics of the Sino-Tibetan
Area: The State of the Art. Papers presented to Paul K. Benedict for his 71st birthday (Pacific
Linguistics C, 87). Canberra: Australian National University.
Woodbury, A. C. (1986). Interactions of tense and evidentiality: a study of Sherpa and
English. In W. Chafe & J. Nichols (Eds.), Evidentiality: The linguistic coding of
epistemology (pp. 188–202). Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Zeisler, B. (2000). Narrative conventions in Tibetan languages: The issue of mirativity.
Linguistics of the Tibeto-Burman Area, 23, 13–38.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.1 (79)
Chapter 4
Evidentiality in Western Apache
(Athabaskan)
Willem J. de Reuse
. Introduction
Western Apache (henceforth WA) is a Southern Athabaskan or Apachean lan-
guage spoken by approximately 13,000 people on and near five reservations in
central and east central Arizona, U.S.A.1
In WA, evidentiality is marked by particles only. As seen in the example
sentences in Section 2, the position of the evidential particles is after the main
verb of the clause. WA is basically an SOV language, but this does not mean that
post-verbal particles are invariably clause-final, since adverbs and noun phrases
often follow the verb plus particle complex. Example (9) contains adverbs and
a noun phrase following the verb plus particle complex. As seen in (8), the
evidential particle follows the negative enclitic.
These particles, understandably, never have the degree of obligatoriness
that an inflectional system, such as the one described for Tariana by Aikhen-
vald (this volume) has. However, there are discourse genres in WA where
the marking of evidentiality is obligatory (see Section 3.3). Evidentiality is
more a strategy than a category in WA. These characteristics of Athabaskan
evidentiality are the reason why it has only recently attracted the atten-
tion of scholars, such as Rice (1986) and DeLancey (1990, 2001) on Slave,
Liebe-Harkort (1983) and Potter (1995) on Western Apache, Willie (1996)
on Navajo, Webster (1999) on Chiricahua Apache, and de Haan (1999) on
Athabaskan in general. However, as pointed out by DeLancey (1990:152–153),
the early Athabaskanist Pliny Earle Goddard mentioned elements indicating
the source of information in the Pacific Coast Athabaskan languages Hupa
(1905:322–326), Kato (1912:80–81), and in the Northern Athabaskan lan-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.2 (80)
 Willem J. de Reuse
guage Chipewyan (1912a:162–163). Goddard (1917:511–512) also noted them
in Beaver, another Northern Athabaskan language.
I will tentatively postulate an evidential system with the following terms:
Experiential (non-eyewitness only); Inferential (three particles: mirative/infer-
ential, non-mirative inferential, and physical inferential); and Quotative (two
particles, the second of which also having functions that are not quotative).
So, in the typology of Chapter 1 (this volume), we would have a six-term
system, with one (nonvisual) sensory evidential, three inferentials, and two
reportatives.
. Semantics of the system
. The non-eyewitness experiential
The non-eyewitness experiential particle hiłts’ad covers something heard (not
quoted), exemplified in (1) and (26) below; felt physiologically (2) or psycho-
logically (3); sensed inside one’s body (4); and smelled (5). The difference be-
tween heard information and quoted information is that heard information
is either a noise, or speech not directed to or intended for the speaker. That
speech is something that the speaker overheard, and s/he is not under any obli-
gation to quote it accurately. Quoted information is directed to the speaker,
who is expected to repeat it as exactly as possible.
(1) Train
train
hilwoł
3sg.prog.run
hiłts’ad.2
nvexp
‘I hear the train (running).’ (noise heard)
(2) Gozdod
3sp.p.be.hot
hiłts’ad.
nvexp
‘It’s hot.’ or: ‘I sense it’s hot.’ (felt physiologically)
(3) Ch’a’oshínłtsoo
2sg+1sg.p.lose.ncm
hiłts’ad.
nvexp
‘You got me lost like a fluffy ball.’ (felt psychologically)
(4) Dinshniih
1sg.imperf.asp.hurt
hiłts’ad.
nvexp
‘I am not feeling well.’ (sensed inside one’s body)
(5) Łika
˛h
3sg.imperf.asp.be.sweet
gonłchi
˛h
3sp+2sg.imperf.asp.smell
hiłts’ad.
nvexp
‘You smell good.’ (smelled)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.3 (81)
Evidentiality in Western Apache (Athabaskan) 
. The inferentials
.. The mirative/inferential
In (6), the speaker had heard on the radio that a bear had attacked a woman.
From the description of her wounds on the radio, he infers, using the mira-
tive/inferential particle lā
˛ā
˛, that she was dragged by the bear.
(6) Shash
bear
isdzán
woman
oyinłshōōd
3sg+3sg.p.drag
lā
˛ā
˛.
mir
‘A bear dragged a woman.’
This particle also implies that the speaker was surprised at the event. Bear at-
tacks are uncommon in Arizona, and the woman was someone the speaker was
acquainted with. In fact, lā
˛ā
˛ is more fundamentally a mirative than an inferen-
tial, and functions exactly like the Hare particle lo
˛ (with which it is cognate),3
described by DeLancey (1990:153–158; 2001:375–377). DeLancey argues, with
evidence from Hare, Tibetan and Turkish, that the inferential sense can be de-
rived from the more basic ‘new knowledge’ or mirative sense. The derivation
can be explained in terms of the interaction between mirativity and tense or as-
pect, since an event in the past will typically be new information to the speaker
only if the speaker’s knowledge of that event is gained by inference rather than
by direct perception (2001:369, 379). In WA as well, the mirative sense of lā
˛ā
˛ is
primary. In (7), the speaker states, to her surprise, that my Apache was better
than that of another white person. This speaker could not have inferred this,
because in fact my Apache is not as good as that other person’s is. The use of
the mirative in compliments is widespread (DeLancey 2001:376–377).
(7) Kı̄ı̄
he
Nnēē
Apache
itisgo
more
nłt’ēēgo
3sg.imperf.asp.be.good=sub
ch’idits’ad
4sg.imperf.asp.understand
lā
˛ā
˛!
mir
‘He understands Apache better!’
There is another example of mirative lā
˛ā
˛ in (13).
.. The non-mirative inferential
The non-mirative inferential particle golnı̄ı̄ occurs in (8), a statement by a fa-
ther inferring about his children’s wishes. This particle is often translated as ‘I
think’, ‘it seems like’, or ‘apparently’.
(8) Chaghá
˛shé
Children
doo
neg
ákū
there
nádabini’
3pl.want.to.go.back
da
neg
golnı̄ı̄.
inf.non.mir
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.4 (82)
 Willem J. de Reuse
‘I don’t think the children want to go back there.’ or:
‘I think the children do not want to go back there.’
.. The physical inferential
The physical inferential particle noli
˛h in (9) is semantically quite close to golnı̄ı̄,
but it is different in that it focuses on inferences on the basis of physical appear-
ances. It is often translated as ‘it appears so’, or ‘it looks like it’. In (9) the infer-
ence was on the basis of the speaker’s seeing the daughter’s car driving around.
(9) Mízhaazhé
her.little.one
míł
with.it
na’iłba
˛a
˛s
3sg.imperf.asp.drive
noli
˛h
pinf
dak’eh
at.times
ałdó’
also
áí.
that
‘Her daughter seems to drive her at times also.’
. The quotatives
The quotative particle ch’inı̄ı̄ occurs in (10), the first sentence of a traditional
story, of the Coyote story genre.
(10) Ma’
Coyote
hanaazhi
˛’
on.the.other.side
sitı̄
˛ı̄
˛
3sg.p.lie
ch’inı̄ı̄.
quot
‘Coyote was lying on the other side (of the fire), it is said.’
The particle lé
˛k’eh, typically also translatable as a quotative, occurs in (11), the
first sentence of a story translated from English, The Tale of Peter Rabbit, by
Beatrix Potter.
(11) Łah
some
jı̄
˛ı̄
˛,
day
gah
rabbit
dı̄
˛ı̄
˛’i
four
dagólı̄
˛ı̄
˛
3pl.imperf.asp.live
lé
˛k’eh.
pdr4
‘Once upon a time there were four rabbits, it is said.’
In stories such as the ones containing (10) and (11), the particles ch’inı̄ı̄ and
lé
˛k’eh are fully interchangeable.
WA has no distinctions between secondhand and thirdhand quotatives.
WA does have spectacular strategies for embedding direct speech into di-
rect speech into direct speech, and so on, but these are not part of the
evidential system.
. Epistemic extensions of the evidentials
Most evidentials have epistemic extensions. The non-eyewitness experiential
hiłts’ad is used to emphasize that the speaker personally hears, feels, senses,
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.5 (83)
Evidentiality in Western Apache (Athabaskan) 
or smells something, and that the interlocutor is not expected to share this
sensation.
The mirative/inferential lā
˛ā
˛ is sometimes used in tentative statements and
questions, but does not have strong epistemic extensions, probably because it is
primarily a mirative. The other inferentials golnı̄ı̄ and noli
˛h generally add some
measure of doubt, and are sometimes translated as ‘it seems’ or ‘maybe’.
The quotative ch’inı̄ı̄ does not have epistemic extensions. The possible epis-
temic extensions of lé
˛k’eh will be treated under Section 3.3.
. The absence of an evidential particle
A clause with no evidential particle tends to be interpreted as a statement that
the speaker is quite certain of, and such statements tend to imply that the
speaker was an eyewitness of the event. Thus, (12) would typically be uttered
by someone who is looking at the road, or just looked at it.
(12) Intinhí
road=top
sáí.
sand
‘The road is sandy.’
It would be incorrect, however, to conclude from this that the absence of par-
ticle marks an eyewitness evidential. The absence of a particle is ambiguous,
since evidentials are not obligatory, except in certain well-defined types of
discourse.
. Conclusions
The evidential particle system described above is somewhat problematic in that
several particles do not form a neat syntactic paradigm. Particles in the set lā
˛ā
˛,
chinı̄ı̄, and lé
˛k’eh can occur in sequences of two. The particles hiłts’ad, golnı̄ı̄,
and noli
˛h do not occur followed or preceded by other evidential particles.
Since lā
˛ā
˛ is primarily a mirative, it is not surprising that it can cooccur
with other evidentials. (13), from a traditional story, contains the sequence lā
˛ā
˛
ch’inı̄ı̄.
(13) Ishikín
boys
nakih
two
n’í
the.former
dáła’á
one
dayits’isxı̄
˛ı̄
˛
3pl+3sg.p.kill
lā
˛ā
˛
mir
ch’inı̄ı̄.
quot
‘They killed one of those two boys!, it is said.’
In (13), lā
˛ā
˛ is clearly mirative, expressing the protagonist’s surprise over
this killing.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.6 (84)
 Willem J. de Reuse
The particle lé
˛k’eh turns out to be the most intriguing elementin the system
and will be reconsidered in Section 3, together with the sequences of evidentials
it occurs in.
. The past deferred realization evidential
. Introduction
Speakers of WA usually comment that lé
˛k’eh has to do with something that
happened in the past, or that the speaker was not an eyewitness to what hap-
pened, opinions which are congruent with the quotative function assumed in
Section 2.3.
However, there is much more to the function of lé
˛k’eh than that of a plain
quotative. In Section 3.2, I discuss the meaning of lé
˛k’eh in nonnarrative genres,
and in Section 3.3, I return to lé
˛k’eh in narrative genres and to the difference
between the quotative lé
˛k’eh and the quotative chinı̄ı̄. I conclude that the overall
function of lé
˛k’eh is that of a past deferred realization marker.
. The particle lé
˛k’eh in nonnarrative genres
The particle is pervasive in narrative genres, but also occurs, albeit sporadi-
cally, in other genres such as autobiography or conversation. My sense is that
the occurrences of lé
˛k’eh in these less typical environments are more revealing
about its precise meaning than the almost automatic occurrence of the particle
in storytelling.
I now illustrate lé
˛k’eh with examples from such atypical contexts. The ex-
tract under (14) is from an autobiographical account of a family returningfrom
a dance. On their way, they became very tired and spent the night on a spot in
the dark, not knowing where they were sleeping. As they were sleeping, they
were constantly disturbed in their sleep by something touching them until fi-
nally they became too frightened and decided to leave. In (14), lé
˛k’eh is un-
derlined. It is useful to contrast lé
˛k’eh with the epistemic and tense particle ni’
‘asserted past tense’5
(discussed in Section 4.4), which is not an evidential, but
does have visual evidential connotations. The particle ni’ is double underlined.
(14) [1] T’ah tł’é’dá
˛’ danásikai ni’ áídí’. We left from there while it was
still dark.
[2] Hikahgo nohwee gozt’i
˛i
˛ d. It got daylight while we were
walking.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.7 (85)
Evidentiality in Western Apache (Athabaskan) 
[3] Go dził biká’yú hikahgo t’a
˛a
˛zhi
˛’,
nijēēdyú nádadílt’i
˛i
˛d.
And when we were walking on the
mountain we looked back down
to where we had slept.
[4] Áí n’í nanezna’ łeshijēēdyú
nohwiheskā
˛ā
˛ lé
˛k’eh!
We had slept in a graveyard!
As can be seen in sentence [1] under (14), ni’ is used for events in the past
of which the speaker is quite sure, and most likely experienced. In sentence
[4] however, lé
˛k’eh is used. I suggest that lé
˛k’eh indicates that the realization
that they were in a graveyard did not occur when they were sleeping in the
graveyard, but that this realization occurred later.
Another revealing extract is (15), from a conversation between a man and
his girlfriend. This extract is more complicated because, as is common in con-
versation, there are other particles surrounding the particles ni’ and lé
˛k’eh . One
will note the occurrences of lā
˛ā
˛ in lines [2] and [4]; gó’ı̄
˛ı̄
˛ (lines [1] and [2]) is
best translated as ‘you see’, and zhó
˛ (line [3]) is an intensifying particle, about
as meaningless as Valley Girl English like. The man is talking here and relating
how he was driving from the reservation to the place where the recording took
place. He was worried about the police stopping him, since he did not have a
driver’s license. In the translation, ‘they’ refers to the police.
(15) [1] Nt’é shi
˛h nabil łizgohi lé
˛k’eh gó’ı̄
˛ı̄
˛. There had been something like a
car collision, you see.
[2] Go sha
˛’ ákū míł da’ikeehdá
˛’
nałtsoos náyiníł’ı̄
˛ı̄
˛ lā
˛ā
˛ nsi
˛h ni’ gó’ı̄
˛ı̄
˛.
And when they drove by there, I
thought that they would check for
papers, you see.
[3] Ts’idizyiz ni’ zhó
˛. I was afraid.
[4] Hik’eh sha
˛’ dázhó
˛go ákū bił
ch’í’ikeehi lé
˛k’ehi lā
˛ā
˛.
But then they were just passing on
by (to my surprise).
[5] Ákū shił ch’í’otad ni’, iłní’yú. I went on by in the middle of it.
Here is my explanation for the alternations between ni’ and lé
˛k’eh in (15). The
events told about occurred at night, so the speaker was not as aware of what
was happening than he would have been had there been daylight. In sentence
[1], lé
˛k’eh indicates that the speaker had no awareness of these precise events at
the time that they happened. In other words, he did not see the actual accident
happen. What he probably saw was the result of the collision when he drove
past it. In the same way, in sentence [4], lé
˛k’eh indicates that the speaker did
not actually see the police driving by, but might have seen the police in his rear-
view mirror after they had already driven by his car. By contrast, ni’ in sentence
[2] refers to what the speaker was thinking at the time, ni’ in sentence [3] refers
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.8 (86)
 Willem J. de Reuse
to the speaker experiencing fear at the time, and ni’ in sentence [5] refers to the
speaker’s driving past the accident location. The speaker was certain of these
three events or states at the time that they occurred, and there is no reason to
assume that he became aware of them at a later time.
I will define lé
˛k’eh as a past deferred realization (PDR) particle, because it
marks the fact that the speaker had no awareness of the event or state at the
time that it occurred, but realized what had occurred at a later time in the past.
The particle lé
˛k’eh is also inferential since we usually infer on the basis of
some earlier event or state. It can also be mirative since if one becomes aware
of something at a later time, one is usually surprised about it. The potential
mirative function is particularly clear in sentence [4] of (14). It is therefore
important to contrast lé
˛k’eh with the mirative/inferential lā
˛ā
˛. The two might
actually be etymologically related, as discussed in Section 6. With lé
˛k’eh the
emphasis is not on the fact that there is an inference or new information, but
rather on the fact that there is a significant time lag between the occurrence
and the realization. While lé
˛k’eh can have a mirative function, it is possible to
emphasize mirativity by adding the mirative/inferential lā
˛ā
˛ to it, as in sentence
[4] of (15). This is evidence that lé
˛k’eh by itself is not primarily a mirative, and
cannot be substituted by lā
˛ā
˛.
Furthermore, lé
˛k’eh neutralizes the distinction between inferred evidence
and reported evidence, as shown in the elicited sentence under (16).
(16) Yáhwa
˛hyú
store=at
nashāā
1sg.imperf.asp.be.around
lé
˛k’eh.
pdr
‘I was at the store.’
At first glance, we expect (16) to be infelicitous, since it would appear impos-
sible for a speaker to have been at the store without being aware of it. The
interpretation of (16) is that the speaker has no personal recollection of the
fact that s/he was at the store, maybe because s/he has lost his/her memory, or
was unconscious at the time. The person realized it later, either because s/he
was told or inferred that s/he had been at the store.
Since lé
˛k’eh marks non-firsthand or indirect evidence and has a mirative
function, it is comparable to the Turkic indirectives (Johanson, this volume),
the commentative in Abkhaz (Chirikba, this volume), and the noncongruent
in Tsafiki (Dickinson 2000, p.c.).
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.9 (87)
Evidentiality in Western Apache (Athabaskan) 
. The particle lé
˛k’eh as a quotative in narrative genres
In modern WA, the repetition of lé
˛k’eh at the end of every single sentence is the
proper way of telling a story. It occurs with this distribution in traditional sto-
ries, myths, or tales, or in anything that is not considered historical or autobio-
graphical. It also occurs in this way in tales translated from English, including
such things as The Little Red Hen, Gingerbread Man, and even nursery rhymes
such as Jack and Jill. If one reads a story without the sentence-final lé
˛k’eh, my
consultants react that it is no longer recognizable as a story: ‘lé
˛k’eh brings you
back to the fact that this is a story’. If one was unaware of the cases discussed in
Section 3.2, lé
˛k’eh would certainly be considered a typical storytelling particle,
which one finds in so many other Native American languages.6
Since I analysed lé
˛k’eh as a deferred realization marker, its conventional
usage as a quotative in narrative is now problematic. Indeed, what does sto-
rytelling have to do with deferred realization? I suggest that lé
˛k’eh performs
two functions in storytelling. First, it allows the narrator to emphasize that the
evidence is not firsthand, and that s/he cannot be held responsible for it. Sec-
ond, and more interestingly, it establishes that the storyteller is aware of his
or her authority as a storyteller. This awareness can be viewed as the deferred
realization, since it becomes apparent only through the telling itself.
There is some historical evidence for this admittedly tentative assumption
that lé
˛k’eh helps establish the authority of the storyteller. The traditional tales
and myths in early 20th century texts compiled by Goddard (1919) and Hoi-
jer (n.d.) did not use lé
˛k’eh, but had the bona fide quotative ch’inı̄ı̄ at the end
of every sentence instead. I speculate that this difference is not an example of
language change, but rather the result of the breakdown in the oral tradition
of storytelling. ch’inı̄ı̄ is typically used when oral information is passed down
from a specific person, even though that person is not named. In my modern
consultants’ words: ‘ch’inı̄ı̄ means “that’s what s/he said, and you know who
said it, but you don’t want to say who said it.”’ In early 20th century texts, the
storyteller knew exactly which person had passed the information on to him
or her, and indicated this fact by the use of ch’inı̄ı̄. Nowadays, the knowledge of
traditional storytelling is much more diffuse; modern speakers get their stories
from a variety of sources, including pieces of oral tradition from several speak-
ers, schools, and even written materials. Furthermore, composition classes at
schools and universities have been encouraging speakers to make up their own
stories, and in such cases there is obviously no oral tradition, and only lé
˛k’eh is
appropriate. I assume that modern speakers no longer use ch’inı̄ı̄ because they
are unable to trace the story to a specific storyteller whom they learned it from,
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.10 (88)
 Willem J. de Reuse
and establish their authority by using lé
˛k’eh instead. ch’inı̄ı̄ itself still exists as
a quotative particle but has acquired the connotation of gossip, and indeed,
speakers tend to know which specific person gossip comes from. An example
of quotative ch’inı̄ı̄ in gossip is (28).
Some modern speakers can still use ch’inı̄ı̄ in storytelling, especially in the
sequences lé
˛k’eh ch’inı̄ı̄, and ch’inı̄ı̄ lé
˛k’eh, which are considered identical in
meaning, and equivalent to the single quotative lé
˛k’eh.
To conclude this discussion of lé
˛k’eh, it is worthwhile examining its po-
tential epistemic extensions. Since it can be an inferential, one would expect
there to be such extensions. In a text such as (15), the alternation between the
asserted past ni’ and lé
˛k’eh could be seen as representing various degrees of
certainty. However, in Bible translations, carried out by devout Christians who
would avoid elements that would cast doubt on the divinely inspired charac-
ter of the text, lé
˛k’eh also occurs. It occurs sporadically in the New Testament
(Edgerton & Hill 1988), a distribution which is stylistically inappropriate, and
deserves a detailed study. In the earlier and very rigorous translation of the be-
ginning of Genesis by Uplegger (n.d.:68–79), lé
˛k’eh occurs at the end of every
sentence, in a pattern identical to that of traditional myths. This is evidence
that at least Uplegger, and his native assistants, did not consider lé
˛k’eh to have
any dubitative connotations.
. The interaction of evidentiality with other grammatical categories
. Imperative and interrogative clauses
The evidentials are not normally used in imperative or interrogative clauses.
However, lā
˛ā
˛ and lé
˛k’eh do occur in interrogative clauses. Examples with lā
˛ā
˛
are (17) and (18):
(17) Ch’a’ónyāā
2sg.p.be.lost
lā
˛ā
˛?
mir
‘You’re lost?’
(18) Nańlwod
2sg.imperf.asp.be.strong
lā
˛ā
˛
mir
ya’?
tag
‘You are strong, aren’t you?’
However, such sentences are not prototypical interrogatives. (17) is unusual
in that it does not contain a yes-no question particle, and could just as well
be translated as ‘It appears you are lost’, or ‘To my surprise, you are lost’, with
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.11 (89)
Evidentiality in Western Apache (Athabaskan) 
an interrogative intonation to make it more polite. Note that the speaker’s own
gloss was ‘you are lost?’, and not ‘are you lost?’. Similarly, (18) is actually a state-
ment, expressing some surprise, with the tag question particle emphasizing it
for rhetorical purposes. The sequence lā
˛ā
˛ ya’ is quite common in conversation.
It is also to be noted that the use of lā
˛ā
˛ in questions (17–18) presupposes
the questioner’s assumption that the answerer would, in the possible answers
(19–20), use lā
˛ā
˛ to express surprise:
(19) Ch’a’óyāā
1sg.p.be.lost
lā
˛ā
˛!
mir
‘I am lost!’
(20) Nanshwod
1sg.imperf.asp.be.strong
lā
˛ā
˛!
mir
‘I am strong!’
(21) is a question with lé
˛k’eh. The speaker is discussing someone’s heart con-
dition, and is trying to find out when the condition was first discovered. It is
unlikely that lé
˛k’eh is an evidential in this sentence, but the deferred realization
sense of the particle is quite appropriate.
(21) Ya’
ynq
łahn
at.one.time
ákū
there
naghāā
3sg.imperf.asp.be.around
lé
˛k’eh
pdr
né?
ynq
‘Had it been there before?’
. Subordinate clauses
Muysken (1995:381–382) pointed out that evidentials are used in main clauses
only, and that their occurrence should not be expected in subordinate clauses.
As far as WA is concerned, lā
˛ā
˛ and lé
˛k’eh are again unusual in that they do oc-
cur in subordinate clauses. (22) is an example of lā
˛ā
˛ in a subordinate clause,
which is marked by the subordinating enclitic =go. In such clauses, lā
˛ā
˛ has a
mirative function only. lā
˛ā
˛ is also common in clauses which look like comple-
ments of ‘to think’. Such clauses appear to be subordinated, but are actually
direct quotations. The verb ‘to think’ thus functions like a verb of saying. For
example, sentence [2] of (15) contains náyiníł’ı̄
˛ı̄
˛ lā
˛ā
˛ nsi
˛h ni’ ‘I had thought
that they would check’, where náyiníł’ı̄
˛ı̄
˛ lā
˛ā
˛ ‘they would check’ appears to be
subordinated to nsi
˛h ni’ ‘I had thought’.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.12 (90)
 Willem J. de Reuse
(22) Nnēēk’ehgo
Apache=in.the.manner
yánłti’
2sg.imperf.asp.speak
lā
˛ā
˛go
mir=sub
shił
to.me
ígózi
˛h.
3sp.imperf.asp.be.known
‘I see that you speak Apache.’
Lé
˛k’eh is common in certain types of subordinate clauses, to be treated in
Section 4.3.
. Irrealis clauses
Anderson (1986:277–278) pointed out that evidentials are not used in irrealis
clauses. For WA, Anderson’s claim does hold up, except for lé
˛k’eh, which is
quite common in the protasis of a conditional sentence (the if clause), which
is both irrealis as well as subordinate. (23) is an extract of a conversation in
which a man discusses the hotel room he is staying in. The underlined part
is the protasis, which ends in lé
˛k’eh, followed by the conditional subordinator
=yúgo(hí) ‘if’. The conditional clause is counterfactual.
(23) Dáhayú nt’é ánail’i
˛i
˛hi goz’ā
˛ā
˛
lé
˛k’ehyúgohí tsíst’ı̄ı̄ ik’án ła’ nasíłnii
doleeł ni’ nláh, tsíst’ı̄ı̄ hidā
˛ā
˛hí bigha
˛,
itsi
˛’ bił, doleeł ni’.
If there were a place that had a
kitchen, I would have bought some
tortilla flour, because we would
have eaten tortillas, with meat.
In (24), an extract of a funerary speech, the conditional clause is factual.
(24) Ínashood ch’ilı̄
˛ı̄
˛ lé
˛k’ehyúgohí, kił
goch’oba’hí da’iłtséh si’ā
˛ā
˛ shi
˛h gó’ı̄
˛ı̄
˛.
If you are a Christian, you have to
be kind, first of all, you see.
The common occurrence of lé
˛k’eh at the end of protases is worthy of more
research. A description of lé
˛k’eh: ‘as it is to be seen in mind though belong-
ing to the past or to circumstances not actually present’ given by Uplegger
(1945:13), might be relevant here, since it is reminiscent of the past-as-unreal
hypothesis (Dahl 1997:97), which proposes that in many languages both past
and irrealis can be subsumed under a general meaning ‘remote’ or ‘distant’.
Dahl (1997) concludes that this hypothesis must be rejected as inadequate but
does note that there is a relationship between past tense and counterfactual-
ity crosslinguistically. Since lé
˛k’eh has a past tense reference, one would then
expect it to occur with counterfactual protases only. But that is not the case:
lé
˛k’eh occurs with counterfactuals such as (23) as well as with factuals such as
(24). Dahl (1997:108–111) proposes that instances of noncounterfactual hypo-
theticals have arisen through grammaticalization of the counterfactuals, and I
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.13 (91)
Evidentiality in Western Apache (Athabaskan) 
assume he would attribute the usage of lé
˛k’eh in factuals to a similar process of
grammaticalization.
Furthermore, it is not impossible that in the Apache world view, the past
is actually conceived as belonging to the realm of hypothetical situations. The
particle lé
˛k’eh would then refer to both past (mythical, historical, as well as
immediate) and hypothetical situations, as in (23) and (24), and reflect this
world view.
. Tense and epistemic modality
The important tense and epistemic particle ni’ interacts in interesting ways
with the evidential system. Ni’ is best defined as an asserted past tense.7
When
using ni’, the speaker emphasizes that something happened in the past, and that
s/he is quite certain that it happened. Ni’ has visual evidential connotations,
however, since most WA speakers will only be very sure of a past event if they
actually saw it happen. In (25), the speaker was implying that he saw a man and
his girlfriends dancing (several months before the utterance). Notwithstanding
the asserted past particle, this statement was actually untrue, and intended as
teasing the man.
(25) Bisáné
his.old.ladies
yił
with.them
ńda’izhish
3pl.imperf.asp.dance
ni’.
assp
‘He and his girlfriends were dancing around.’
Because of these visual evidential connotations, ni’ is very common in auto-
biographical narratives or first person narratives of past events, but it is not
obligatory.
Ni’ commonly follows evidential particles. Examples are (26–29).
(26) Áígee
there
‘ha’ish’aah’
1sg.imperf.asp.buy
nı̄ı̄
3sg.imperf.asp.say
hiłts’ad
nvexp
ni’,
assp
ła’.
some
‘Someone was wanting to buy some there.’
In (26), the speaker is certain that he overheard someone say ‘I am going to
buy some (beer)’; ni’ marks the evidential hiłts’ad as past tense. The evidential
is thus within the scope of past tense.
(27) Dakı̄ı̄
they
baa
to.him
ch’inkai
4pl.p.come
lā
˛ā
˛
mir
ni’.
assp
‘It appears that they came to visit him.’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.14 (92)
 Willem J. de Reuse
In (27), the past tense marking is on the verb ‘come to visit’, and therefore lā
˛ā
˛
is not within the scope of the past tense.
(28) Izee
medicine
baa
about.it
gowa
˛hyú
home=to
óyāā
3sg.p.go.off
ch’inı̄ı̄
quot
ni’.
assp
‘I heard she went to the hospital.’
(28) is like (26) and unlike (27) in that the evidential is within the scope of the
tense.
(29) Adā
˛ā
˛dá
˛’
yesterday
magashi
cow
náyis’ah
3sg+3sg.p.butcher
lé
˛k’eh
pdr
ni’.
assp
‘It is clear that he butchered the cow yesterday.’
(Potter & Dawson 1996:29)
In the elicited sentence (29), lé
˛k’eh is translated as ‘it is clear’. Past tense ni’ has
scope over the verb ‘to butcher’ only, and not over lé
˛k’eh, a situation similar to
that of (27). My own consultants confirm that the sequence lé
˛k’eh ni’ means:
‘it happened in the past, and I know about it, but I did not see it’.
Ni’ can also occur preceding evidentials. An example is (30), the beginning
of a traditional tale:
(30) Áłk’idá
˛’
long.ago
nnēē
people
gólı̄
˛ı̄
˛
3sg.imperf.asp.live
ni’
assp
chinı̄ı̄.
quot
‘Long ago, people were living, it is said.’
The sequence *ni’ lé
˛k’eh, however, is ungrammatical, presumably because lé
˛k’eh
would have scope over ni’. Clearly, it is impossible to realize later something
that one was certain of in the past.
To conclude, ni’ can occur before or after evidentials, but when it occurs
after the evidential, ni’ does not necessarily have scope over this evidential.
With the particles hiłts’ad (26) and ch’inı̄ı̄ (28), it does, but with the particles lā
˛ā
˛
(27) and lé
˛k’eh (29) it does not. As already seen in Section 4.1 and Section 4.2,
the particles lā
˛ā
˛ and lé
˛k’eh again function in similar ways, setting them apart
from the other evidentials.
As a result, the evidentials hiłts’ad (26) and ch’inı̄ı̄ (28) can have their own
time reference. Evidentials with their own time reference are an unusual ty-
pological feature of the WA system. Only past tense marking ni’ can provide
evidentials with their own time reference. Future tense particles cannot follow
evidentials, and therefore evidentials cannot have a future time reference.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.15 (93)
Evidentiality in Western Apache (Athabaskan) 
. Person
There are constraints on the use of particles with 2nd person subjects, having
to do with cultural etiquette. One cannot comfortably say: ‘You are cold’ with
no particle (31a), or with asserted past ni’ (31b), because that would presume
that the speaker has the power to tell how another person really feels inside, and
that is culturally inappropriate (see Section 7). Speakers prefer to use the mi-
rative/inferential (31c). A past deferred evidential is also possible (31d). There
are no restrictions on the use of evidentials, or lack thereof, with first and third
person subjects.
(31) a. *?Nił
with.you
gozk’az.
3sp.p.be.cold
‘You are cold.’
b. *?Nił gozk’az ni’. ‘You were cold.’
c. Nił gozk’az lā
˛ā
˛. ‘You are cold, it appears.’
d. Nił gozk’az lé
˛k’eh. ‘You were cold (I realized later).’
. Further evidentiality strategies
In addition to the system outlined in Section 1 through Section 3, there are
various lexical elements which can refer to source of information, but are not
clause-final particles. There is a postpositional stem -nāāł which is often trans-
lated as ‘in one’s presence’ but literally means ‘with one’s eyes’, which can be a
very concrete visual evidential. Examples are (32) and (33):
(32) Nihzhá
˛
you=only
shināāł
in.my.presence
onánzi’
2sg.imperf.asp.dive.in
doleeł.
fut.part
‘Only you will dive in (as I watch).’
(32) is from a conversation in which a wife tells a husband that she will not be
able to go swimming with him, but she will be there to watch him.
(33) Áí
that
dáła’á
one
nago’
3sg.p.fall
lé
˛k’eh
pdr
bināāł,
in.his.presence
hadín shi
˛h
someone
biskahgo.
3sg+3sg.p.shoot
‘He saw one (a duck) that had fallen, shot by someone.’
In (33), lé
˛k’eh preceding bināāł implies that the subject did not see the duck fall,
but watched it on the ground. Note that if the order lé
˛k’eh -nāāł is possible, the
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.16 (94)
 Willem J. de Reuse
order *-nāāł lé
˛k’eh is ungrammatical (34b), since one cannot see something
now and realize it later. Ni’ is possible, as shown in (34a).
(34) a. Willem
(name)
shināāł
in.my.presence
k’é’iłchı̄ı̄
3sg.imperf.asp.write
(ni’).
(ASSP)
‘Willem is writing/wrote in front of me.’
b. *Willem shināāł k’é’iłchı̄ı̄ lé
˛k’eh.
The verb nsi
˛h ‘I think’, often used in combination with other particles, implies
inference from reasoning. (35) is an example with a negative clause. (36–37)
are examples of the very common sequence shi
˛h nsi
˛h, including the epistemic
shi
˛h ‘maybe’. (37) contains a negative clause also, and shows that the subject of
the preceding clause can be different from that of nsi
˛h.
(35) Doo
neg
disháh
1sg.imperf.asp.start.to.go
da
neg
nsi
˛h.
1sg.imperf.asp.think
‘I don’t think I’ll go.’ or: ‘I think I will not go.’
(36) Ánáshdle’
1sg.imperf.asp.make.again
shi
˛h
maybe
nsi
˛h.
1sg.imperf.asp.think
‘I think that I can fix it.’
(37) Bíhí
she=top
doo
neg
na’iziid
3sg.imperf.asp.work
da
neg
shi
˛h
maybe
nsi
˛h,
1sg.imperf.asp.think
A.
(name)
‘I don’t think that she works, that A.’ or:
‘I think that she doesn’t work, that A.’
The second or third persons of the verb ‘to think’ are very rarely used in this
way, because is culturally inappropriate to presume to know the thoughts of
others (see Section 7).
. Origins of evidentials
The mirative/inferential lā
˛ā
˛ and the asserted past tense ni’ are unanalyzable
particles. Both have cognates in the other Apachean languages, e.g. Navajo
(Young and Morgan 2000:305, 311), and are probably reconstructible for
Proto-Athabaskan. However, these particles are not primarily evidentials, since
lā
˛ā
˛ is primarily mirative, and ni’ is primarily tense and epistemic. This does not
bode well for the reconstruction of a Proto-Athabaskan evidentiality system.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.17 (95)
Evidentiality in Western Apache (Athabaskan) 
Four evidentials are recent-looking grammaticalizations of complement-
taking verbs of sensation and of a complement-taking verb of saying. Two are
passives. The nonvisual experiential hiłts’ad is from a passive verb ‘it is heard’.
The non-mirative inferential golnı̄ı̄ is from a passive verb ‘it (spatial subject)
is sensed’. The following two are not passives. The physical inferential noli
˛h
is derived from a third person subject form of ‘to look like, to resemble’. The
quotative ch’inı̄ı̄ is the fourth person8
subject form of ‘to say’.
One should note that if the verbs above have undergone some of the se-
mantic bleaching that one expects from grammaticalized elements, they are
still clearly recognizable as verbs, and can still be inflected like verbs. For exam-
ple, I recorded a perfective aspect form of imperfective aspect hiłts’ad. Actually,
all four forms can function as full verbs.
(38) and (39) exemplify the contrast beween the quotative particle ch’inı̄ı̄,
and the homonymous verb of saying ch’inı̄ı̄, and shows that the contrast is se-
mantic rather than formal. (38) is a line from a traditional story, so the particle
is quotative. In (39), my consultant had in mind a particular person quoted,
referred to with the fourth person.
(38) ‘Dénzhónéhi
3sg.imperf.asp.be.beautiful=spec
ánı̄ı̄yú
3sg.imperf.asp.sound=to
dit’āāzh’
1dl.p.start.to.go
nı̄ı̄
3sg.imperf.asp.say
ch’inı̄ı̄
quot
ni’.
assp
“‘We are going towards the beautiful sound”, she said, it was said.’
(39) ‘Nich’i
˛’
to.you
nanáhishniił’
1sg.f.pay.back
chinı̄ı̄
4sg.imperf.asp.say
ni’.
assp
“‘I will pay you back”, he had said.’
The sixth evidential particle lé
˛k’eh appears to be an analyzable particle rather
than a verb. There is even some etymological justification for glossing it as ‘past
deferred realization’. Its older variant is lánk’eh, still occurring as a variant in
the San Carlos, Cibecue, and Tonto dialects of WA. This form can be analyzed
as the particle lán, a hypothetical/irrealis found in interrogative past and hy-
pothetical sentences, possibly related to lā
˛ā
˛, followed by an adverbial element
-k’eh ‘the next’, occurring in hik’eh ‘and then’ and iskā
˛ā
˛nik’eh ‘the next day’.
. Evidentials, responsibility, and thought in Western Apache culture
Even though evidentiality is by no means an obligatory category in WA, WA
speakers mark source of information more often and more precisely than Eu-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.18 (96)
 Willem J. de Reuse
ropean language speakers do. This might be due to Athabaskan attitudes about
the autonomy of the person (Basso 1979, 1990; Greenfeld 1996; Perry 1991;
Rushforth & Chisholm 1991), resulting in a reluctance to speak for another
person, or to impute feelings to another person ((31) is an example).
It must also be significant that putting words in another person’s mouth for
humorous purposes is done a lot more in WA culture than in Euro-American
culture, and is considered a rather funny sort of teasing. This must be because
such a thing is considered particularly incongruous or preposterous. (40) and
(41) are from conversations between friends:
(40) ‘The Westyú9
(placename)=at
doo
neg
ánii
recently
idishzhiizh
1sg.imperf.asp.dance
da
neg
ni”
assp
ńnı̄ı̄
2sg.imperf.asp.say
‘Say: “I have been dancing at the West for a long time”.’
In (40), the speaker jokingly commands the interlocutor to say this sentence,
knowing that The West is a place where he goes dancing often.
(41) ‘Shits’á
˛’
from.me
ndlā
˛ā
˛’
2sg.imperf.asp.drink
tah10
?
ńnı̄ı̄.
2sg.imperf.asp.say
‘Say: “Drink it from me”.’
In (41), the speaker is thirsty and jokingly commands his wife to tell him that
he can drink from her own cup.
Finally, as seen in (35–37), a possible evidential strategy is the verb form
‘I think’. This is also culturally significant, since in speeches Apaches say ‘when
I think about it’, and such expressions much more often than Euro-Americans
do. Thinking and its powers (magical and otherwise) are very important in
Athabaskan culture, as discussed in Werner, Austin-Garrison & Begishe (1996)
on ‘thought’ regarding Navajo.
. Conclusions
The most interesting typological characteristic of the WA evidential system is
the existence of the past deferred realization evidential lé
˛k’eh, which has not
been attested in any other evidential system. This particle displays an intrigu-
ing constellation of overlapping past tense, irrealis, inferential, mirative, and
quotative functions, and at the same time it is separate syntagmatically from
the other distinctively past tense, inferential, mirative, or quotative elements.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.19 (97)
Evidentiality in Western Apache (Athabaskan) 
Another typological characteristic of the WA system is the absence of a
visual evidential, as in Eastern Pomo (McLendon, this volume) or Eskimo
(Fortescue, this volume), and actually in most other chapters in this volume.
This suggests that the visual evidential is often a default, and that systems
with an explicitly coded eyewitness evidential such as the ones occurring in
Amazonia (Aikhenvald, this volume, Dixon, this volume) are very marked.
More general conclusions on the WA system viewed synchronically and
diachronically are the following.
Viewed synchronically, evidentiality in WA is coded in a scattered way, and
is not a neat system, as shown by its lack of paradigmaticity and obligatoriness.
The presence of several inferentials with non-evidential extensions, and vari-
ous lexical strategies is fairly typical of scattered coding situations, such as the
Greenlandic one (Fortescue, this volume). At best, the WA evidential system is
a fuzzy, or non-prototypical system, in the sense of Rosch (1975). When one
looks beyond the WA evidential system, it appears that the evidential particles
fit into a broader system of WA clause-final particles. This complex system, a
description of which is beyond the scope of this chapter, marks, in addition
to evidentiality, epistemic, and deontic modal distinctions, presentationals like
French voici, voilà and tense. Sequences of three, four, and even five clause-final
particles are not uncommon in conversational speech, as can be seen in (15).
From a diachronic point of view, the modern WA evidential system appears
to be the result of an intersection of various elements, none of which are clearly
evidential in origin: complement-taking verbs of sensation or saying (see Sec-
tion 6), a mirative (with inferential extensions), and a past deferred realization
particle (with quotative extensions).
Notes
. The other Apachean languages are Navajo, Chiricahua, Mescalero, Jicarilla, Lipan, and
Plains Apache. These languages form a chain, with some mutual intelligibility between ge-
ographically contiguous languages, such as between WA and Navajo, and between WA and
Chiricahua. There are four major dialects or variants of WA: San Carlos, Cibecue, White
Mountain, and Tonto. The WA forms in this chapter are from my own fieldwork (1992-
present). Unless otherwise specified, the WA forms in this chapter are in the San Carlos di-
alect, and from naturally occurring speech. The research leading to this chapter was funded
by a grant from the National Science Foundation to the University of Arizona (Nr. SBR-
9408543), and to the University of North Texas (Nr. SBR-9896227). This support is hereby
gratefully acknowledged. I also thank Shobhana Chelliah, Keren Rice, David Samuels, Siri
Tuttle, and the participants at the SSILA Winter 2000 meeting, the Third High Desert
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.20 (98)
 Willem J. de Reuse
Linguistics Conference, WAIL III, and the La Trobe workshop for comments. I am very
grateful to the following Western Apache speaking consultants for their help and patience,
and for sharing with me their views about Apache evidentiality: Phillip Goode (deceased),
Josephine Goode, Joycelene Johnson, Lynnia Key, and A. Nova Calvin from San Carlos; Jen-
nifer Dosela and Betty Kitcheyan (Cibecue); Kathleen Kitcheyan, Fred Wesley, Irwin Rope,
and Marthalean Talkalai-Rope from Bylas (San Carlos); Bernadette Adley-Santamaria, Bon-
nie Lewis, and Theresa Susan (White Mountain), and Rebekah Smith (deceased), Elizabeth
Rocha, and Victor Smith (Tonto).
. The spelling of WA is the standard system used and described in White Mountain Apache
Culture Center (1972:vii–xii, 107–110) and in Bray (1998:xii–xviii). This standard system
only distinguishes high tone (acute accent) and low tone (no accent); the mid tone is usually
marked as a low tone, but occasionally it is marked as high tone (acute accent), particularly
on a short i or a long ii , or on a long oo (often written ú). Because of the unsatisfactory
marking of the mid tone in the standard system, the following addition to the system is
used in this chapter: Low tones are unmarked V, VV, mid tones are marked V̄, V̄V̄, and high
tones are marked V́, V́V́. Underlined n stands for a sound varying between [n] (Tonto and
most San Carlos subdialects) and prenasalized voiced [nd] (some San Carlos subdialects).
Underlined d stands for a sound varying between voiceless [t] and voiced [d] (the latter
with or without slight prenasalization) (Cibecue and White Mountain). See de Reuse et al.
(2001) for a grammar consistently using these additional conventions.
. Hare is a dialect of Slave, an Athabaskan language of northern Canada. The Slave cog-
nate of WA lā
˛ā
˛ would indeed be a low toned particle. However, Rice’s grammar of Slave
distinguishes between lo
˛o
˛ , lo
˛ , no
˛o
˛ ‘evidential, dubitative’ (1989:401–410), and lo
˛o
˛, ló
˛, nó
˛
‘apparently, reported, uncertainty’ (1989:410–412). She points out that these two particles
are identical and have the shape lo
˛o
˛ in the Slavey dialect of Slave, but that they differ in tone,
in the other dialects of Slave, including Hare. It is difficult to distinguish between the two se-
mantically, and to decide which of the two particles DeLancey (1990) is considering. From
Rice’s discussion and examples, it appears that both particles are inferential and mirative,
and have epistemic (dubitative) extensions. Rice (p.c.) comments that she has few Hare data
about these particles, but suggests that in Hare there is indeed a phonological distinction
between a high toned and a low toned particle. The matter needs further research.
. The label PDR ‘past deferred realization particle’ used for this second quotative particle
will be justified in Section 3.2.
. In de Reuse’s (2000:18) preliminary account of lé
˛k’eh, ni’ was considered to be a genuine
evidential meaning ‘experienced past’. I believe that this view was erroneous.
. In narrative, lé
˛k’eh functions exactly like the Navajo storytelling particle jiní (Haile 1984),
but of course it is WA ch’inı̄ı̄ which is cognate with Navajo jiní.
. I owe this term to Potter and Dawson (1996:19).
. The Athabaskan fourth person is a type of third person with a variety of specialized us-
ages. It is used to talk politely about persons present, or to talk to others without having to
address them with the more direct second person.
. The West is short for ‘Wild Wild West’, the name of a country western night-club in
Tucson, Arizona.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.21 (99)
Evidentiality in Western Apache (Athabaskan) 
. The absurdity of the command ‘(you) say:’ is often softened by the particle tah, difficult
to translate, preceding it. Samuels (1998) first noted the tah ńnı̄ı̄ construction, and discusses
its meaning and pragmatics in his Chapter 2.
References
Anderson, L. B. (1986). Evidentials, Paths of Change, and Mental Maps: Typologically
Regular Asymmetries. In W. Chafe & J. Nichols (Eds.), Evidentiality: The Linguistic
Coding of Epistemology (pp. 273–312). Norwood, New Jersey: Ablex.
Basso, K. H. (1979). Portraits of the Whiteman. Linguistic play and cultural symbols among
the Western Apache. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— 1990. Western Apache Language and Culture. Essays in Linguistic Anthropology. Tucson:
University of Arizona Press.
Bray, D. (1998). In collaboration with the White Mountain Apache Tribe. Editor of Western
Apache-English Dictionary. A Community-Generated Bilingual Dictionary. Tempe, Az.:
Bilingual press/Editorial Bilingue.
Dahl, O. (1997). The relation between past time reference and counterfactuality: a new
look. In A. Athanasiadou & R. Dirven (Eds.), On Conditionals Again (pp. 97–114).
Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
DeLancey, S. (1990). A note on evidentiality in Hare. International Journal of American
Linguistics, 56, 152–158.
DeLancey, S. (2001). The mirative and evidentiality. Journal of Pragmatics, 33, 369–382.
Dickinson, C. (2000). Mirativity in Tsafiki. Studies in Language, 24, 379–421.
Edgerton, F. E., & Hill, F. (1988). The New Testament of Our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.
(Bik’ehgo’ihi’nan Biyati’.) Western Apache/English. NY: American Bible Society.
Goddard, P. E. (1905). The Morphology of the Hupa Language. Berkeley: University of
California Press.
—— (1912). Elements of the Kato Language. Berkeley: University of California Press.
—— (1912a). Analysis of Cold Lake dialect, Chipewyan. Anthropological Papers of the
American Museum of Natural History, 10, 67–170.
—— (1917). Beaver Dialect. Anthropological Papers of the American Museum of Natural
History, 10, 399–546.
—— (1919). San Carlos Apache Texts. Anthropological Papers of the American Museum of
Natural History, 24, 141–367.
Greenfeld, P. J. (1996). Self, Family, and Community in White Mountain Apache Society.
Ethos, 24, 491–509.
de Haan, F. (1999). Evidentiality as an areal feature. Paper presented at the Athabaskan
Language Conference, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, May 1999.
Haile, B., O. F. M. (1984). Navajo Coyote Tales. The Curly Tó Aheedlíinii Version. Lincoln and
London: University of Nebraska Press.
Hoijer, H. n.d. San Carlos Apache Texts. Unpublished manuscript, ca. 325 pp. Library of the
American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:04 F: TSL5404.tex / p.22 (100)
 Willem J. de Reuse
Liebe-Harkort, M.-L. (1983). Zu den Partikeln in den Apachen-Sprachen. In H. Weydt (Ed.),
Partikeln und Interaction (pp. 106–117). Tübingen: Gunter Narr Verlag.
Muysken, P. (1995). Focus in Quechua. In K. E. Kiss (Ed.), Discourse Configurational
Languages (pp. 375–393). New York and Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Perry, R. J. (1991). Western Apache Heritage. People of the Mountain Corridor. Austin, Tx.:
University of Texas Press.
Potter, B. C. (1995). Inflectional ‘Suffixes’ in Western Apache. Paper presented at the
Athabaskan Language Conference, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, June 1995.
Potter, B. C., & Dawson, J. (1996). Inee yáshti’. I speak Apache. [A Brief Introduction to the
Western Apache Language.] Unpublished Manuscript, 70 pp. Department of Linguistics,
University of California, Los Angeles.
de Reuse, W. J. (2000). ‘Deferred Evidence’ marking and evidential typology in Western
Apache. Proceedings from the third Workshop on American Indigenous Languages,
April 14–16, 2000, Santa Barbara Papers in Linguistics, 10, 16–25.
de Reuse, W. J., with the assistance of Goode, P. et al. (2001). A practical grammar of the San
Carlos Apache Language. Unpublished manuscript, viii + 674 pp. Denton, Tx.
Rice, K. (1986). Some remarks on direct and indirect discourse in Slave (Northern
Athabaskan). In F. Coulmas (Ed.), Direct and indirect speech. Reported speech across
languages (pp. 47–76). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Rice, K. (1989). A grammar of Slave. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Rosch, E. (1975). Chapter 7, Universals and Cultural Specifics in Human Categorization. In
R. W. Brislin, S. Bochner, & W. J. Lonner (Eds.), Cross-cultural perspectives on learning
(pp. 177–206). Beverly Hills and London: Sage.
Rushforth, S., & Chisholm,J. S. (1991). Cultural persistence. Continuity in meaning and moral
responsibility among the Bearlake Athapaskans. Tucson: University of Arizona Press.
Samuels, D. (1998). A sense of the past: music, place, and history on the San Carlos Apache
reservation. Unpublished Ph.D. Dissertation, Department of Anthropology, University
of Texas, Austin.
Uplegger, F. J. n.d. First lessons in Apache. Unpublished manuscript, 79 pp. Special Collec-
tions Library, University of Arizona, Tucson.
Uplegger, F. J. (1945). Thesaurus of Apache language forms. Manuscript, 47 pp. San Carlos
Lutheran Mission Library, Peridot, Az.
Webster, A. K. (1999). Sam Kenoi’s Coyote stories: Poetics and rhetoric in some Chiricahua
Apache narratives. American Indian Culture and Research Journal, 23, 137–163.
Werner, O., Austin-Garrison, M., & Begishe, K. (1996). On the Importance of Thought in
Navajo Philosophy. In E. Jelinek, S. Midgette, & K. Rice (Eds.), Athabaskan language
studies [Essays in Honor of Robert W. Young] (pp. 407–442). Albuquerque: University
of New Mexico Press.
Willie, M. (1996). On the expression of modality in Navajo. In E. Jelinek, S. Midgette, &
K. Rice (Eds.), Athabaskan language studies [Essays in honor of Robert W. Young] (pp.
331–347). Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press.
Young, R., & Morgan, W. (2000). The function and signification of certain Navaho partic-
les. In T. B. Fernald & P. R. Platero (Eds.), The Athabaskan languages: Perspectives on a
Native American language family (pp. 288–317). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.1 (101)
Chapter 5
Evidentials in Eastern Pomo with
a comparative survey of the category
in other Pomoan languages
Sally McLendon
Eastern Pomo is one of seven distinct but related Pomoan languages spoken
in northern California in the coastal range of mountains between the Pacific
Ocean and the Sacramento Valley.1
All formally differentiate the sorts of ev-
idence on which an assertion is based, but they differ among themselves in
both the forms used and the number of categories distinguished. All are ag-
glutinative, verb-final languages with rich phonological, morphological, and
semantic systems.
In Eastern Pomo, four independent verb forming suffixes distinguish
claims based on direct sensory evidence, someone else’s reporting, inferences
from circumstantial evidence, or direct knowledge. They are:
-ink’e the non-visual sensory evidential
-ine the logical inferential evidential
-·le the hearsay or reportative evidential
-ya the direct knowledge evidential
They are contrasted below with the stem ph
a·békh
‘burn’.
(1) bi·Yá
hand
ph
a·bé-kh
-ink’e
burn-punctual-sensory.ev
‘I burned my hand’ (I feel the sensation of burning in my hand)
(2) bé·k-al
3pl-patient
ph
a·bé-k-ine
burn-punctual-infr
‘They must have gotten burned’ (I see circumstantial evidence – signs of
a fire, bandages, burn cream)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.2 (102)
 Sally McLendon
(3) bé·k-al
3pl-patient
ph
a·bé-kh
-·le
burn-punctual-hs
‘They got burned, they say’ (I am reporting what I was told)
(4) mí·-p-al
3sg-masc-patient
ph
a·bé-k-a
burn-punctual-dir.ev
‘He got burned’ (I have direct evidence)
Evidentials cannot be consistently elicited in Eastern Pomo from English
prompts, as speakers routinely translate literally the various periphrastic de-
vices used in English to suggest evidential meanings. For example, once when
attempting to elicit examples of the inferential evidential, -ine, I asked Leonard
Bateman, a particularly insightful speaker, how to say ‘He must have stolen it/I
think he stole it’. He provided sentence (5) with an explicit verb ‘think’ as the
main verb of the Eastern Pomo matrix clause, but no logical inferential suf-
fix. The verb ‘think’ is suffixed with the direct evidential, presumably because
when one thinks one has direct knowledge of one’s thoughts:
(5) bé·kh
3pl.agent
ph
u·dí-yaki-·
steal-pl.agent-stat
ha·’
1sg.agent
ma·šóy-k-kil-a
think-punctual-hab-dir.ev
‘They stole it, I think/I think they stole it’
Evidentials appear spontaneously from time to time in elicited sentences, since
speakers usually imagine a communicative context within which the Eastern
Pomo utterance they provide might be appropriate. Fortunately, speakers usu-
ally describe this communicative context when they provide the form. Sev-
eral of these volunteered contexts are provided in examples below, set off by
quotation marks within parentheses.
A thorough understanding of the evidential suffixes, thus, requires an ex-
amination of their occurrence in naturally occurring discourse. This analysis is
based on such evidence.
. The non-visual sensory evidential
The non-visual sensory evidential, -ink’e (-nk’e after vowels, -ank’e after /q/)
indicates that the speaker is experiencing, or has just experienced, through any
sense except sight, the action or state expressed by the verb suffixed. Thus:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.3 (103)
Evidentials in Eastern Pomo with a comparative survey 
(6) smell: kó·pi‘
coffee
mi·šé-nk’e
smell-sensory.ev
‘I smell coffee’
(7) hearing: ku·Má
enemy
má·l-ink’e
go.around-sensory.ev
‘I hear a night prowler going around/A night prowler is
going around’
(8) taste: q’o·díy
good
di·kí·th
-ki-nk’e
continuous.flow-semelfactive-sensory.ev
‘It’s going down good, tastes good (what I’m drinking)’
(9) internal feelings: šów
now
di·Láq’ma-nk’e
think-sensory.ev
‘I just now thought of it’
(10) internal feelings: mí
2sg.patient
ma·rá·-nk’e
like/want-sensory.ev
‘I like you’
As these examples show, when the main verb is suffixed with -(i)nk’e, there
is no overt marker of experiencer if the experiencer of the action or state de-
scribed is identical with the speaker. Nevertheless, such sentences are regularly
translated into English with a first person subject as in (6), (7), (9), (10). When
there is an explicit non-first person agent or patient in the clause -(i)nk’e con-
tinues to indicate that the basis for the assertion is the speaker’s senses other
than sight.2
Thus
(11) ba·
that
háyu-he‘mì·-p’
dog-3sg-masc.agent
kh
é·š
lots
ka·Nú·l-ink’e
talk/bark-sensory.ev
du·wé
last.night
‘The dog was barking last night’ (I heard it)
(12) du·lá‘du·làw-u·là
mosquito-agent
qa·néqa·nèm-ink’e
bite.repeatedly-sensory.ev
‘Mosquito’s biting [me] repeatedly’ (I feel it)
(13) kó·pi‘-he‘è
coffee-spec
hóyya‘
good
mi·šé-nk’e
smell-sensory.ev
‘The coffee smells good’ (I smell it)
One cannot form predications with -(i)nk’e which make claims about other
people’s sensory perception. Thus one says
(14) kh
é·š
lots
kh
ú·lma-nk’e
afraid-sensory.ev
‘I’m afraid (of the dark)’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.4 (104)
 Sally McLendon
but:
(15) mí·-p’
3sg-masc.agent
kh
ú·lma-k’i·yà·-l-a
afraid-control-dir.ev
‘He’s afraid (of the dark)’
or:
(16) mí·-p’
3sg-masc.agent
kh
ú·lma-k’i·yà·-l-ine
afraid-control-infr
‘He’s afraid (of the dark)/He must be afraid (of the dark)’ (I infer from his
behaviour or other evidence)
. The logical inferential evidential
The logical inferential evidential, -ine (-ne after vowels) indicates that the
speaker’s assertion is based on a logical inference as to the action or process
that led to the evidence or resultant state observed. As Frances Dennison once
explained to me, “if you come home and find a vase broken and only your ten
year old son was home during the afternoon, you could say ‘my son broke the
vase’ with this suffix attached to the verb ‘break’.” Other examples are:
(17) wáx
1sg.poss
sánti·ya‘
watermelon
ba·
that
mu·sísib-ine [<mu·-sí-ph
]3
[from.internal.energy-split.open-sudden.pressure]+root.redup-infr
‘My watermelon split open’ (Said when found watermelon split open on
vine from overripeness)
(18) bá·=kh
i
spec.anaphoric=3agent
ph
u·di-yaki-ne-he
steal-pl.agent-infr-ant
‘They must have stolen it’ (“You know it’s taken because you left it there,
and now it’s disappeared”)
The logical inferential suffix occasionally occurs with a rare, poorly understood
clitic =qa:
(19) mí·-p’=qa
3-sg.masc.agent=?
‘í·-ne
do-infr
ch
á-wuhù
away-travel
‘He must have gone away’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.5 (105)
Evidentials in Eastern Pomo with a comparative survey 
Circumstantial evidence can include evidence provided by the senses. The
inferential suffix is used when one infers a condition from a sense percep-
tion. The sensory evidential is used when one asserts one’s sense perceptions.
Thus one says:
(20) šá-he‘
fish-spec
mo·wós-k-ine
ripe-punctual-infr
‘Fish must be ripe’ (Said when one smells that fermentation has reached
the desired point)
but:
(21) šá-he‘
fish-spec
mi·šé-nk’e
smell-punctual-sensory.ev
‘I smell the fish’ (Said of one’s perception, not inferring the state of the
fish)
Since the inferential suffix presupposes lack of firsthand experience on the part
of the speaker, it can only be used in predications with explicit first person
agents and patients in the unusual situation in which the speaker has to infer
what happened to him or her from circumstantial evidence. For example:
(22) xó·čh
-inay
two-times
há·
lsg.agent
kó·q-ane
shoot-infr
‘I (must have) hit the deer twice’ (“I didn’t see the arrow or bullet hit,
but the deer has two cuts on its body, and I shot at him, so I must have
hit him”)
See also example (54).
. The hearsay evidential
The hearsay evidential suffix, -·le, indicates that the speaker knows about the
events being recounted through someone else’s telling. A clitic =xa normally
follows the first constituent in the matrix clause when the main verb is suffixed
with the hearsay evidential -·le, as in:
(23) bá-y=xa
there-loc=hs
xáy
stick
kh
íl-ayax-·le
hang.vertically-fut-hs
‘They’re going to have a dance, they say’ (lit. the (invitation) stick will be
hung up there)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.6 (106)
 Sally McLendon
The hearsay clitic is described in more detail in Section 8.1.
The hearsay evidential is commonly used in recounting ma·rú· ‘traditional
myths’. Ralph Holder, a knowledgeable and gifted speaker, began his telling of
the ma·rú· ‘Old Man Coyote and Flint-Young Man’:
(24) yu=xa
already=hs
ku·nú·la-bú·c’ike
Coyote-Old.Man
ká-·le,
live.sg-hs
yó·-qa·qó-y,
south-valley-loc
nó-na·ph
ó-ti-yay
ash-village-ancient-loc
‘Coyote Old Man was staying at home in Big Valley, at Nonapoti’
and continued using the hearsay evidential suffix -·le on the main verbs of all
subsequent independent clauses.
However, Joe Augustine, another gifted speaker, and an initiate in the secret
society of Ash Ghosts, recounted many unique versions of myths to Abraham
Halpern in 1939 with almost no use of the hearsay evidential suffix -·le. Perhaps
this was a special way of speaking used by members of the secret society.
. The direct knowledge suffix
The direct knowledge suffix -ya (-a after vowels) indicates that the event re-
ferred to by the verb is actually happening or has just happened and that the
speaker has direct knowledge of it, primarily because the speaker performed or
experienced the action, process, or state.4
Thus
(25) wí
1sg.patient
q’a·lálma-ya
sick.become-dir.ev
‘I got sick’ (I experienced it)
(26) mí·-p-al
3-sg.masc-patient
há·
1sg.agent
‘óki
still
déwer‘-a
owe-dir.ev
‘I still owe him’ (I know it)
(27) t’á=mà
inter=2sg.agent
šó·-k-a
hear-punctual-dir.ev
‘Did you hear [that]?’ (I know there was a sound)
(28) méya-lal
here-towards
mí·-p’
3-sg.masc.agent
wá-·l-a
go-continuative-dir.ev
‘He’s coming here’ (I know he’s coming)
When I created the form in (29) below, and asked Leonard Bateman what it
would mean if it was acceptable, he explained that ‘if [one was] on a journey
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.7 (107)
Evidentials in Eastern Pomo with a comparative survey 
already and should meet someone and they asked you where you’re going’, you
could say:
(29) há·
1sg.agent
šó-hu-ya
east-travel-dir.ev
‘I’m going east’ (I know which way I intend to go)
Mr. Bateman also explained that if something had disappeared and “one knows
for sure who took it” one says:
(30) bé·kh
3pl.agent
ph
u·dí-yaki-ya
steal-pl.agent-dir.ev
‘They stole it’
There is not a uniquely visual evidential with which the other evidentials
contrast. The direct knowledge suffix -(y)a sometimes occurs in situations
where visual evidence can be interpreted to be available, but more often oc-
curs in situations where visual evidence cannot be involved, as in (25) to (30)
above and (31).
(31) bá·
that
wi
1sg.patient
di·qó·x-a
forget-dir.ev
‘I forgot’
In Ralph Holder’s performance of ‘Bear Kills Her Daughter-in-Law, Deer’,
Deer’s two sons have escaped from their grandmother, Bear, after she has killed
their mother. The two boys then go to live with their grandfather on their
mother’s side, Great Blue Heron. While out playing they hear their mother cry-
ing and tell their grandfather they want to go look for her. Their grandfather
refuses to let them go, saying:
(32) ka·lél-‘ba·
nothing-deictic.emphasis
má·
2pl.agent
šó·-kh
-kil-a
hear-punctual-hab-dir.ev
‘That’s nothing you hear’
In Ralph Holder’s retelling of his grandfather’s account of the visit of the McKee
Expedition to Clear Lake, California in 1851 to negotiate a treaty, Mr. Holder
suffixes most of the verbs in the telling with the hearsay evidential -·le. Towards
the end of the account, he describes how his then teenage grandfather was at-
tacked by a jealous White man whom his grandfather fought to a bloody draw.
His grandfather then ran off to McKee’s camp where the soldiers came out to
meet him, and Mr. Holder says:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.8 (108)
 Sally McLendon
(33) bá-ya
there-loc
xól-dí-yaki-qan
fire.towards-bring-pl.agent-then.switch.ref
mi·kh
í-yi’=kh
i
McKee-patient=3agent
t
.’é·t
.’el-a
tell-dir.ev
...
‘Then [the soldiers] brought him to camp [i.e. where the fire is] and he
told McKee ... [what the White man had done to him]’
By using the direct evidential suffix rather than the hearsay evidential, Mr.
Holder perhaps emphasizes that he has direct knowledge of this event (through
his experience of frequently hearing his grandfather’s reminiscences as a boy).
The use of the direct form at this point is clearly also dramatically effective. It
heightens this climactic event, in which a young Native teenager, attacked un-
justly by one of the newly arrived, powerful strangers who are taking over the
country, ventures into the lion’s den of these strangers – the McKee camp, with
its protective force of soldiers. This was a particularly brave thing to do, since
United States soldiers only a year earlier had attacked and killed a large number
of Native people on an island in Clear Lake in punishment for the killing of two
abusive White settlers, Stone and Kelsey. McKee’s response, totally supportive
of Mr. Holder’s grandfather, and a triumph for the nervy teenager which he
must have remembered with great satisfaction, is subsequently given as a direct
quote. This quote uses the direct suffix as well, emphasizing McKee’s intent and
perhaps reflecting how McKee’s words were translated or understood. McKee
spoke no Eastern Pomo but had an Eastern Pomo speaker with him who acted
as interpreter. (This man, incredibly, had been taken prisoner by the soldiers
the year before while they were attacking the Native peoples at Clear Lake and
had served as a servant to officers in San Diego, where he learned some English,
before returning to the Clear Lake area with McKee in 1851.)
(34) “mí·n
like.that
‘í-x-ba
do-caus-to
‘í·-kh
ùy
do-neg
há·
1.sg.agent
ka·Nú·l,
say
ba·yí·l
teach/instruct
wá·l-a. . .”
go.around-dir.ev
“I didn’t tell the people to do a thing like that, I’m going around teach-
ing/instructing people ... [to be good, to get along]”
The use of the direct knowledge suffix at dramatic moments in narratives,
especially those of personal experience, is found in the narratives of other
speakers as well.
In naturally occurring speech, the direct knowledge suffix is much more
frequent in first person constructions and in questions than in third person
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.9 (109)
Evidentials in Eastern Pomo with a comparative survey 
constructions, presumably because one knows best one’s own knowledge. Oc-
casionally, sentences elicited through English that combine a third person agent
or experiencer with a verb suffixed with the direct knowledge suffix can receive
a visual evidence reading. However, such readings are rare in natural speech
and as the preceding examples show, visual cannot be the primary meaning of
the suffix.
. Co-occurrence of evidential suffixes
These four suffixes form a coherent set semantically, but in fact differ in their
co-occurrence possibilities. The direct knowledge evidential -(y)a cannot co-
occur with any of the other three suffixes. In one genre, ma·rú· ‘traditional
myths’, however, the hearsay evidential, -·le, can follow both -(i)nk’e, the non-
visual sensory evidential and -(i)ne, the inferential evidential.
When the hearsay -·le follows -(i)nk’e, the non-visual sensory evidential is
understood to indicate the sensory experience of a protagonist experiencer in
the scene described, not the speaker. This experiencer is never the agent of the
verb suffixed with -(i)nk’e. Thus, in Mr. Holder’s telling of his grandfather’s ac-
count of the killing of Stone and Kelsey, when one of the two men was stabbed,
he ran into the granary and then upstairs to hide. The Eastern Pomo who ran
after him clustered around the bottom of the stairs, wondering what to do,
listening. Mr. Holder then says:
(35) bá-y=xa
there-loc=hs
ba·
that
t
.ó·š-ink’e-·le
thumping-sensory.ev-hs
which he translated as:
‘[Up] there he’s making thumping noises, kicking around’
The sensory evidential -(i)nk’e refers to the sensory experience of the pursuers
(of whom one was Mr. Holder’s grandfather, from whom he learned this ac-
count), while the hearsay evidential -·le indicates that Mr. Holder’s knowledge
of this event was acquired through someone else’s (actually his grandfather’s)
recounting of the experience.
In another ma·rú·, the hero has gone into a house where a blind old man,
the villain, is lying, and then starts to leave. Mr. Holder then says:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.10 (110)
 Sally McLendon
(36) bá·=xa=kh
í
then=hs=3agent
xów-aqa-nk’e-·le
outwards-move-sensory.ev-hs
‘Then he [the hero] starts to walk out’ (The old man villain, who is blind,
heard the hero start to walk out)
The third person agent clitic =kh
i refers to the hero who is walking out (the
topic of this passage), while -(i)nk’e indicates the sensory experience of the one
who is experiencing the event (who would of course be the speaker in con-
versations). There is only one other protagonist present in this scene: the old
man villain whom the hero is trying to kill and he is the experiencer. The clitic
=kh
i cannot refer to the one having the sensory experience, since it obligatorily
marks backgrounded agents unspecified as to number or gender, and the one
having the sensory experience is not in control5
of the experiencing. Therefore
when an agent or patient is specifically marked in a clause containing -(i)nk’e,
another experiencer is always understood to be involved. This is the speaker in
conversations, but one of the protagonists in narratives.
This usage gives great immediacy and heightened dramatic effect to the
narrative. The listener is focused on the sensory experience (accompanied pre-
sumably, by anxiety and anticipation) of the blind and vulnerable old man by
-(i)nk’e, although it is the hero who is acting. The use of the clitic =kh
i to refer
to the hero, rather than the independent pronoun mí·-p’, signals the hero’s lack
of prominence in this scene. (See McLendon 1996:540–541 for more details
concerning =kh
i.)
In Ralph Holder’s telling of Coyote and the Ground Squirrels, Old Man
Coyote has transformed into a beautiful woman, and seduced Buteo-Chief to
reveal his secret technique for catching ground squirrels, which is to decorate
his hand with dangles of iridescent abalone shell and stick his hand and arm
into the ground squirrels’ hole. The ground squirrels are attracted to his beau-
tifully decorated hand, grab hold of it, and then can be grabbed in turn and
pulled out. Old Man Coyote decorates his hand in the same way and inserts his
arm up to his shoulder into the ground squirrel hole. Then Mr. Holder says:
(37) bá-y=xa
there-loc=hs
bi·Yá-Na
hand-on
xól-k’í-yàki-ink’e-·le,
towards.goal-do-pl.agent-sensory.ev-hs
bi·t
.’ém-kh
-ma-nk’e-·le...
many.cling-punctual-extentive.pl.agent-sensory.ev-hs
which Mr. Holder translated:
‘[Old Man Coyote] could feel them approaching his hand in there; he
could feel many getting on his hand...’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.11 (111)
Evidentials in Eastern Pomo with a comparative survey 
Here again, no agent or patient is explicitly specified in the clause. Old Man
Coyote, the topic of this section of the narrative and the agent of the pre-
ceding sentence (which describes him sticking his decorated hand down into
the ground squirrel’s hole), is understood to be the experiencer of the sensory
impressions indicated by -(i)nk’e.
On another occasion Mr. Holder recounted his grandfather’s account of
how he and his uncle were chased by a bear one day while out checking traps.
Mr. Holder’s grandfather, then a boy, was hidden in a thicket of brush where his
uncle threw him at the beginning of the chase. This is how Mr. Holder describes
the scene:
(38) bá·
then
mí·n
like.that
qa·qó·
field/opening
ka·ná·x,
chase
bá-y=xa=kh
i
there-loc=hs=3agent
ka·ná·-m-du·li-nk’e-·le
chase-constantly-constantive-sensory.ev-hs
‘He [the bear] was chasing [him, the uncle] around in the field, just chas-
ing him around constantly’ (The hidden grandfather who can’t see from
where he is hidden in the brush, hears the sounds of the bear chasing the
man, crashing through brush, panting, etc. from the hot pursuit.)
In the first of the two sentences that precede example (38), Mr. Holder’s grand-
father, whose foot was sticking out in plain sight from his hiding place, is de-
scribed as screaming when some of the bear’s saliva drips on his foot and burns.
The second sentence specifies that the bear paid no attention, but continued to
pursue the uncle, both of whom are named with full nouns – the maximally
prominent marker of a protagonist in a discourse, and unusual in the middle
of a narrative. The agent clitic =kh
i in (38) refers to the bear, the marked agent
of the immediately preceding sentence, who must be still chasing the uncle, as
he was in the preceding sentence. Thus -(i)nk’e indicates the teenage grandfa-
ther’s sensory experience, lying hidden but terrified, listening to what he thinks
is his uncle’s death chase.
When the hearsay -·le follows the logical inferential -(i)ne in this genre,
however, -(i)ne seems always to be interpreted as reflecting the narrator’s in-
ferences, and suggests perhaps that the narrator is not quite certain as to what
happened at this point in the narrative, perhaps because he/she didn’t recall ex-
actly what was said by the person from whom he/she had heard the narrative.
Thus, in Bill Grave’s telling of ‘Bear Kills his Daughter-in-Law, Deer’, after Bear
has killed his daughter-in-law, Mr. Graves says:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.12 (112)
 Sally McLendon
(39) ka·lél=xa=kh
í
simply=hs=3.agent
ma·‘ór-al
daughter.in.law-patient
q’á·-ne-·le
leave-infr-hs
‘He must have simply left his daughter-in-law there, they say’
In ‘Old Man Coyote and his Brother Wolf’, Ralph Holder describes Old Man
Coyote’s efforts to go to sleep so that the sticks he has placed in his dance house
will become children:
(40) mí·n
like.that
ye·hé·l-iday=xa
do-while.switch.ref=hs
si·má·
sleep
né-k-ine-·le
extend-punctual-infr-hs
‘He had been doing that, then he must have gone to sleep, they say’
Sometimes the use of -(i)ne seems to indicate the narrator’s distancing himself
from the events described. Thus in Leonard Bateman’s telling of a borrowed
Spanish folktale, šá pínto‘ ‘The Spotted Fish,’ a fisherman catches a spotted fish
which his wife insists on eating. Before the fish is killed, he tells the husband
to dispose of the fish bones in a carefully prescribed way – all very bizarre and
peculiar from the point of view of Eastern Pomo narrative conventions. The
bones are put in the stable and then Mr Bateman says:
(41) ...káwa‘-yéwa‘-he‘mì·-t
.’=xa
horse-mare-3sg-fem.agent=hs
t’a·né-he‘
fish.bone-spec
mi·múk-ine-·le
smell-infr-hs
‘...Then the mare must have smelled the fish bones’
The logical inferential can also be followed by the anterior mode suffix -·hi
(-he following /e/) in narratives other than myths. It seems to have the same
effect of distancing the speaker from the assertion being made. For example, in
a narrative recounting a dream Mr. Bateman had as a boy, the main verbs are
suffixed with the anterior mode -·hi. He dreamed he was walking along by a
bridge and saw a lady floating in the water, with her hair spread out around her
head. While he was looking at her, she jumped up and came down head first.
Then Mr. Bateman says:
(42) ‘í-qan
do-then.switch.ref
ba·’
that
dá-he‘è
woman-spec
‘í-ne-he’
do-infr-ant
šá-yi·bá·
fish-tail
kó·-kh
long.object/to.be.perpendicular-punctual
which he translated as:
‘Then, happened to be, the lady had a fish tail, with scales’
In transcribing and translating this text, Mr. Bateman volunteered that -(i)ne
was wrong here, since he had seen the fish tail. Yet he, an accomplished and
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.13 (113)
Evidentials in Eastern Pomo with a comparative survey 
fluent speaker, had used the inferential suffix – presumably to distance himself
from the unusual thing he had seen.
Thus the co-occurrence of -(i)nk’e with -·le reflects the multiple points of
view in a dramatic performance of a narrative. It takes the listener inside the
narrative action, giving the performance drama and realism, just as the use of
direct quotes allows the narrator to take on different voices or speech manner-
isms for each character, turning a narrative performance into something more
like a play than a novel. The co-occurrence of -(i)ne with -·le has the opposite
effect, drawing the listener’s attention to the speaker’s feelings (or reservations)
about the narrative action.
. Evidentials and first person point of view
All four suffixes mark the speaker’s source of information for what is asserted
and normally imply a first person involvement. The non-visual sensory evi-
dential -(i)nk’e indicates the most intense first person involvement. Except in
ma·rú· ‘traditional myths’ it always reflects a first person experiencer and is
consistently translated into English with a first person subject, as in (1), in the
absence of an explicit marker of person. Even when non-first persons are ex-
plicitly marked as involved, the presence of -(i)nk’e indicates that the speaker is
basing his assertion on the evidence of his own senses as in (7), (11) and (12).
The inferential -(i)ne reminds the listener that the assertion being made
is based on the speaker’s inference from the evidence. The hearsay -·le signals
that the assertion is based on the speaker’s memory of an earlier recounting by
someone else. The direct knowledge suffix -(y)a generally reflects the speaker’s
point of view as well. However, in recounting past events, -(y)a is sometimes
used to reflect the knowledge of a non-first person participant in the event
described, who the speaker knows has had direct knowledge of that event, as in
examples (33) and (34) above.
Eastern Pomo speakers from whom I have learned Eastern Pomo since
1959, remembered that when they were children their grandparents constantly
reminded them to be careful how they spoke. They were told to be especially
careful to speak well to, and about, other people, because if they didn’t the per-
son spoken about, or to, might be offended and try to “poison” them, that is,
use ritual or other means to bring them misfortune, illness, or even death. Ev-
identials which distinguish non-visual sensory experience, inference, memory,
and knowledge seem a useful means of speaking with care, asserting only what
one has evidence for, and making one’s evidence clear.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.14 (114)
 Sally McLendon
. Evidentials in questions, negatives, commands,
and dependent clauses
Evidentials do not occur in commands, or dependent clauses in Eastern Pomo.
They do occur in questions and negative clauses.
. Evidentials in questions
Questions are formed with one of two modal clitics, the interrogative t’a or the
subjunctive ti (sometimes tiši), postposed to the constituent that is the topic of
questioning. This can be a single word, a phrase, or a clause. When the whole
sentence is the topic of questioning the clitic occurs sentence initially as in (27),
otherwise it occurs in second position.
The clitic =t’a queries current states or activities or ones which happened
or existed in the past. Thus:
(43) mí=t’a
2sg.agent=inter
ma·‘áy
food
ma·rá-·
want-stat
‘Are you hungry?’ (lit. Are you the one who wants food?)
In contrast, the clitic =ti queries states or activities that are possible or desir-
able, but not yet in existence. The choice between these two clitics distinguishes
Realis (marked with =t’a) from Irrealis mode (marked with ti or tiši). Compare:
(44) má=ti
2sg.agent=subj
wá·-l-a
go-continuous-dir.ev
‘Are you going to go?’
with:
(45) má=t’a
2sg.a=inter
wá·-l-a
go-continuous-dir.ev
‘Are you going (actually moving)?’
The clitic =ti also combines with two Irrealis modals. It marks polite requests,
distinct from commands, when combined with the conditional suffix -ya‘è·le:
(46) má=ti
2sg.a=subj
di·t
.’áq-a‘è·le
think-cond
‘Could you think?’
It marks supplications (commonly used in praying and speeches by political
leaders) when combined with the desiderative suffix -(V)š:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.15 (115)
Evidentials in Eastern Pomo with a comparative survey 
(47) má=ti
2sg.agent=subj
wélay
quick
ph
á·Liki-qa-š
be.well-caus-des
‘May you get well quickly!’
Two evidentials, the direct knowledge -(y)a and the non-visual sensory -(i)nk’e,
have been found in questions formed with both clitics. The logical inferen-
tial -ine has only been found in questions formed with the Realis interrogative
clitic =t’a. No examples have been found of the hearsay evidential with either
clitic. Examples of each evidential suffix in questions are given below.
.. Questions with the direct knowledge evidential -(y)a
(48) má=t’a
2.sg.agent=inter
wá-du·ki·-ya
go-inceptive-dir.ev
‘Did you go?’
Mr. Holder’s telling of ‘Old Man Coyote begs Black Bread from the Sun’ begins
with Coyote walking around with his head down. The Sun Captain up above
sees him and asks:
(49) “xé
xé
‘í·lo,
‘í·lo,
xé
xé
‘í·lo,
‘í·lo,
‘á·m=t’a
thing=inter
má
2sg.agent
ma·ká-·l-a
look.for-continuous-dir.ev
“xé ‘í·lo, xé ‘í·lo, what are you looking for?”
In another ma·rú· told by Mr. Holder, Old Man Coyote has brought back to
life the dead and cremated Falcon, his grandson. Falcon is then insulted by
Meadowlark, who on entering the Dance House, complains about the burnt
smell (from Falcon, who had been cremated). This makes Falcon decide to
return to the dead. He then asks:
(50) ‘á·m-iyay=ti
what/thing-loc=subj
há·
1sg.agent
ch
áph
-ki-ya
step-semelfactive-dir.ev
‘What could I step on/What will I step on?’ (expecting that valuable bead
belts will be laid down in a path for him to walk on)
.. Questions with the non-visual sensory evidential -(i)nk’e
(51) ki·yá·=t’a
who=inter
‘éč-ink’e
sneeze-sensory.ev
‘Who sneezed?’ (I heard, but don’t know who sneezed)
(52) ma·rú·=t’a=kh
i
myth=inter=3.agent
ma·rú·-yaq-ank’e
tell.myths-fut-sensory
‘Is he going to tell old stories?’ (Are we going to hear him tell ma·rú?)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.16 (116)
 Sally McLendon
(53) ká·wk-ula-ya
grandchild-agent-voc
ma=ti
2sg.agent=subj
í-nk’e,
do-sensory.ev
Jeff
Jeff
‘Is that you, Jeff?/Could that be you, Jeff?’ (Poholqa, a blind man, said
to a younger relative, Jeff, when Jeff tried to slip into a room without
his knowing)
.. Questions with the logical inference evidential -(i)ne
(54) k’e·héy=t’a
self=inter
mí·
2sg.patient
ka·dá-k-k’-ine
cut-punctual-refl-infr
‘Did you cut yourself?’ (When seeing bandages, or a bloody knife, etc.)
(55) t’a=ma
inter=2sg.agent
da·wí-ne
drill.beads-infr
‘Are you drilling beads?’ (When seeing bead drill and grinding stone out,
for example)
In Bill Grave’s telling of ‘Bear kills his Daughter-in-Law’, Bear asks his daughter-
in-law:
(56) “čh
é·=t’a
where=inter
wa·x
1sg.poss
qa·wí·-‘ba·
boy-deictic.emphasis
líl-uhú-ne”
far.away-travel-infr
“Where did my boy go?”/ “Where has my boy gone?” (Bear is wondering)
. Evidentials in negative clauses
In Eastern Pomo matrix clauses are negated by the insertion of a negative verb
kh
úy- as the first, or more usually, the second, constituent in the sentence. This
negative verb is inflected with the appropriate independent-verb forming suf-
fixes, including evidential suffixes, rather than the semantic main verb. The
negative verb can also occur in sentence final position, like other finite verbs,
to form a negative existential, meaning there is nothing/no-one (McLendon
1996:208).
Only three of the four evidentials have been found suffixed to the negative
verb in first or second position: the non-visual sensory evidential -(i)nk’e, the
hearsay evidential -·le, and the direct knowledge evidential -(y)a. No examples
are known of the logical inferential evidential -(i)ne suffixed to the negative
verb in second position, but it has been found suffixed to the clause final ex-
istential negative verb. For example, Leonard Bateman explained, “if thing is
there, but you can’t quite find it, or don’t know quite where it is (for example if
some thing is in the back of a truck, but you can’t find it)” you would say:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.17 (117)
Evidentials in Eastern Pomo with a comparative survey 
(57) ‘í·’
yes
bá·
that
kh
úy-ine
neg-infr
‘Yes, it must be gone’ (I infer it is gone)
But Mr. Bateman pointed out that if you know it’s gone, you would say:
(58) bá·
that
kh
úy-a
neg-dir.ev
‘It’s gone’
Examples of the evidentials occurring in contrastive affirmative and negative
sentences are given below.
.. The direct knowledge evidential -(y)a
(59) há·
1sg.agent
ma·šóy-k-kil-a
think/guess-punctual-hab-dir.ev
‘I’m guessing at it/ thinking of it’
(60) há·
1sg.agent
kh
úy-a
neg-dir.ev
ma·šóy-k-kil
think/guess-punctual-hab
‘I don’t think so’
A textual example from Leonard Bateman’s telling of ‘The Spotted Fish’ is:
(61) “báy
there
ká·wkh
person
líl-uhù-n
far.away-travel-co.ref
kh
úy-a
neg-dir.ev
xa·má·l
back
qa·šóy
alive
kál-uhù-kil”
home.to-travel-hab
“Whenever a person goes over there, they never come back alive”
.. The hearsay evidential-·le
(62) xa= mí·-t
.’
hs=3-sg.fem.a
ka·Nú-·le
speak-hs
‘She spoke, they say’
(63) xa=kh
úy-·le
hs=neg-hs
ka·Nú-kh
say-punctual
‘She never said a word, they say’
A textual example from Ralph Holder’s telling of ‘Old Man Sun and Falcon-
Young Man’ is:
(64) ...ba=xa
that=hs
kh
úy-·le,
neg-hr
lá·-bú·c’ike-he‘mì·-p’
Sun-Old.Man-3-masc.agent
q’o·díy
good
bálk’...
act
‘And Old Man Sun, he didn’t act good ... [he acted mad]’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.18 (118)
 Sally McLendon
.. The non-visual sensory evidential -(i)nk’e
(65) ma·‘áy
food
qa·bó·-k’-ink’e
full-refl-sensory.ev
‘I’m full (had enough to eat)’
(66) kh
úy-ink’e
neg-sensory.ev
ma·‘áy
food
qa·bó·-k’
full-refl
‘I’m not full/I don’t feel full’
A textual example comes from Leonard Bateman’s account of traditional hunt-
ing rules:
(67) kh
úy-ink’e
neg-sensory.ev
ba·
that
q’o·díy
good
me·‘él
know
‘I don’t know [the hunting rules] for sure’
. Evidentials in second position, suffixed to ‘í-
All four evidential suffixes can also occur suffixed to ‘í-, a general verb of do-
ing, inserted into the first, or more usually, second position in a sentence, in
the same position as the negative verb kh
úy. Like the negative verb kh
úy-, ‘í-
takes the independent verb forming suffixes, instead of the clause final lexical
main verb. For example, in his telling of ‘The Spotted Fish’ story, Mr. Bateman
describes one of the two brothers saying to the other:
(68) “há·=‘è
1sg.agent=cop
‘ó·-y
over.there-loc
mí·n
like.that
mi·-dár-iMak’
2sg.poss-wife-with
‘í-ne
do-infr
há· mér”
1sg.agent lie
“I must have slept with your wife over there, without knowing it”
. Co-occurrence with clitics
The hearsay evidential suffix normally occurs with the hearsay clitic =xa post-
posed to the first constituent in the matrix clause as in examples (23), (24),
(25), (35), (36), (37), (38), (39), (40), (41), (62), (63) and (64) above (see
McLendon 1979 for details). The logical inferential suffix occurs occasion-
ally with a poorly understood clitic =qa postposed to the first constituent,
as in example (19). The non-visual sensory evidential and the direct knowl-
edge evidential never occur with an evidential-specific clitic (although they do
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.19 (119)
Evidentials in Eastern Pomo with a comparative survey 
occur with the question forming clitics =t’a and =ti, as does the inferential
evidential).
. The hearsay clitic =xa
The hearsay clitic =xa is normally postposed to the first constituent in matrix
clauses in which the main (inflected) verb is suffixed with the hearsay evidential
-·le as in (23). As with all such second position clitics, this first constituent can
be a word or a dependent clause. The hearsay clitic does not occur in apposed
clauses following the matrix clause, even when the main verb of these clauses is
also suffixed with the hearsay evidential suffix. In complex sentences with mul-
tiple dependent clauses in the matrix clause before the main verb, the hearsay
clitic can occur after two or more dependent clauses. For example, in Ralph
Holder’s performance of ‘Old Man Coyote and the Ground Squirrels’ he says:
(69) xa·‘á·-qan=xa=kh
i
dawn-then.switch.ref=hs=3agent
yák’aMi
right.away
Wíl-he‘
abalone.shell-spec
ma·ká-y=xa=kh
i
look.for-then.co.ref=hs=3agent
dúyeqal-·le
made.(some)-hs
‘Next morning, first thing, he [Old Man Coyote] looked for that abalone
shell, and made some [shell pendants]’
Not every dependent clause is followed by the hearsay clitic =xa, however. The
occurrence of =xa after each of several dependent clauses signals that the ac-
tions or events described by the sequence of dependent clauses are discrete,
not interrelated or dependent, and happen sequentially, as in (69). The lack
of =xa after a clause signals that the next clause either expands on the first or
describes an action that co-occurs with that described by the preceding clause.
Both possibilities can be seen in (70):
(70) bá·=yu
there=already
ká·ydi·lè
middle
xól-uhù-day=xa=kh
i
towards-go-when.switch.ref=hs=3agent
q’óy-he‘=kh
i
neck-spec=3a
bi·xé·t’-ki-qan=xa...
twist.sideways-semelfactive-then.switch.ref=hs
dáq’a·rà=xa
old.lady=hs
xá-xam
water-in
ba·kú·-y
fall-then.co.ref
xa·bé-‘bá·-Mak’
rock-deictic.emphasis-com
ba·kú·-y=xa
fall-then.co.ref=hs
ka·lél
simply
ti·ší-ti·šì-kh
-·le
made.a.hissing.noise-redup=distributed.pl-punctual-hs
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.20 (120)
 Sally McLendon
‘When the bear had gone across to the middle (to that hot rock) he [Great
Blue Heron] suddenly twisted his neck to one side and the old lady fell in
the water together with those rocks, making a hissing sound’
The clause structure is:
When [the bear] got to the middle=xa
he twisted his neck=xa
the old lady=xa
fell in the water,
fell with the rocks=xa
making a hissing sound-·le
The fifth dependent clause, ‘fell with the rocks’, expands on the immediately
preceding dependentclause, ‘fell in the water’, so no hearsay clitic =xa separates
them. (See McLendon 1979 for more examples and details.)
. Clitics and the classification of independent verb forming suffixes
Evidentials are members of a large group of independent verb forming modal
suffixes in Eastern Pomo. They can be grouped into two sets, Realis and Irre-
alis, on the basis of their patterns of occurrence with one of the four modal
clitics, all of which normally occur in second position in the matrix clause, but
occasionally occur in clause initial position.
Three of the modal clitics, the hearsay clitic =xa, the interrogative
clitic =t’a, and the subjunctive clitic =ti, have already been discussed. The
fourth clitic, the concessive =bi combines with the singular imperative -im,
the plural imperative -me and the jussive -ba‘ to mark polite imperatives. In-
terestingly, it is identical in shape to one of two inferential suffixes in Kashaya
Pomo (Oswalt 1986:42). Examples are:
(71) xa·ká=bi
flint=concessive
yóx-kil-im
make-hab-sg.imper
‘Make an arrow point, if you will!’
(72) mé=bi
this=concessive
ba·ráph
-ki-me
several.to.ride-semelfactive-pl.imper
‘You fellows ride in this!’
The independent verb forming suffixes are:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.21 (121)
Evidentials in Eastern Pomo with a comparative survey 
REALIS IRREALIS
-(y)a ‘direct knowledge evidential’ -(y)aè·le ‘conditional’
-(i)nke ‘non-visual sensory evidential’ -iš ‘desiderative’
-(i)ne ‘logical inferential evidential’ -ba‘è ‘subjunctive’
-·le ‘hearsay evidential’ -i·Nà‘ ‘intentive’
-·hi ‘anterior’ -ba‘ ‘jussive’
-· ‘stative’ -im ‘sg.imperative’
-e· ‘extentive’ -me ‘pl.imperative’
The Irrealis modals code the speaker’s attitude towards the action or state ex-
pressed by the verb, while the Realis modals state the existence of that ac-
tion or state, situate it temporally, and/or specify the speaker’s evidence for
its existence.
The clitic =t’a occurs only with suffixes from the Realis set. It does not oc-
cur with Irrealis suffixes. The clitic =xa occurs only with the Realis hearsay suf-
fix, -·le. The clitic =bi occurs only with Irrealis suffixes, specifically the imper-
ative suffixes, and the jussive. It does not occur with Realis suffixes. The clitic
=ti occurs with Irrealis suffixes, specifically the conditional and the desidera-
tive, and at least three of the evidentials. With the evidentials, it forms polite
questions about future acts or events, as in (50) and (53).
Over half the Realis suffixes are evidentials. Of the remaining three suffixes,
the anterior suffix -·hi indicates that the action or state began in the past, be-
fore the moment of speech. It may refer to an action completed in the past,
or still going on, but always begun sometime before the moment of speech.
The stative suffix -· describes general states or actions, rather than specific
events. The extentive suffix indicates that the state or action referred to has
an extended locus.
. A brief survey of evidentials in other Pomoan languages
Extensive linguistic fieldwork has been carried out with native speakers of six
of the seven Pomoan languages (Halpern 1964; Oswalt 1958, 1961, 1964b,
1976b, 1977a, 1977b, 1983, 1986, 1988, 1990, 1998; McLendon 1969, 1975,
1977a, 1977b, 1978a, 1978b, 1978c, 1979, 1982, 1983, 1985a, 1985b, 1996; Vih-
man 1976, 1998; Moshinsky 1974, 1976; O’Connor 1984, 1986, 1990a, 1990b,
1992; Mithun 1988a, 1988b, 1990a, 1990b, 1993, 1997, 1998; Buckley 1990,
1991, 1993, 1994a, 1994b). The seventh language, Northeastern Pomo, ceased
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.22 (122)
 Sally McLendon
to be spoken in the early 1960s. Less fieldwork had been done on the lan-
guage and less is known about it than the other languages, so it will not be
considered here.
Abraham Halpern is the only linguist to have carried out extensive field-
work on all seven of the languages. His work is particularly valuable as it took
place more than two decades before that of the other of the researchers (in
1939–1940) when most of the languages were still the medium of communica-
tion for a large portion of the communities that spoke them, and his phonetic
transcriptions are remarkably accurate.
. Subgroupings
Both Halpern (1964:90) and Oswalt (1964a:416) have proposed subgroupings
of the languages; Halpern on his understanding of the sound correspondences
and lexical resemblences, Oswalt on a statistical analysis of 100 lexical items.
They both agree that Southeastern Pomo and Eastern Pomo are the most di-
vergent languages (although they are spoken less than 20 miles apart at oppo-
site ends of the largest natural lake entirely within California, Clear Lake), while
Kashaya and Southern Pomo (and possibly Central Pomo) are the most similar.
Halpern and Oswalt differ most significantly on their placement of North-
eastern Pomo, the least documented language. Halpern felt that Northeastern
belonged together with Northern Pomo, Central Pomo, Southern Pomo, and
Kashaya in a subgrouping he called Proto-Russian River Pomo. Oswalt believed
that Northeastern Pomo differed so significantly from the four other languages
in Halpern’s Russian River Pomo that it was a separate development from the
proto language, parallel to Eastern Pomo and Southeastern Pomo. Oswalt also
identified Northern Pomo as one arm of a “Western Branch”, within which
Central Pomo, Southern Pomo and Kashaya were more closely related to each
other, forming a “Southern Group”. Halpern felt there were two possibilities:
1) Northeastern Pomo and Northern Pomo could form one subgroup within
Proto-Russian River Pomo, while Central Pomo, Southern Pomo and Kashaya
formed a separate subgroup (identical to Oswalt’s “Southern Group”). Alter-
natively, 2) Northeastern Pomo could have had a separate development within
Proto-Russian River Pomo, while Northern Pomo and Central Pomo formed
one subgroup, and Southern Pomo and Kashaya formed a second subgroup.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.23 (123)
Evidentials in Eastern Pomo with a comparative survey 
. Historical research so far
The detailed synchronic descriptions available now for five of the seven lan-
guages (Kashaya, Eastern Pomo, Southeastern Pomo, Northern Pomo and Cen-
tral Pomo) provide a basis for careful, considered reconstruction of the mor-
phology and syntax of the parent language, Proto Pomo. The first stage of the
historical work began in the 1960s and 1970s (Halpern [1962ms], 1964; Oswalt
1964a, 1976a, 1976b; McLendon 1973, 1976; Moshinsky 1976). This provided a
good understanding of the sound correspondences that have characterized the
changes in these languages, as well as the various phonological processes that
have often radically changed the shapes of morphemes. The situation is briefly
as follows:
Impressionistically, [the seven Pomoan languages] sound quite different from
one another, they are mutually unintelligible, and they frequently demonstrate
unexpected grammatical divergences. However, the correspondences ... are
characterized by rather small phonetic shifts. This state of affairs results from
the operation of two distinct types of sound change ... the phonetic content
of the proto phonemes has changed (paradigmatic change) ... [while] many
proto phonemes have systematically undergone changes uniquely in certain
types of sequential environments, giving rise to adjustments which are classi-
cally referred to as assimilation, dissimilation, syncope, apocope, and aphesis
(syntagmatic change). Paradigmatic changes of the first type have primarily
affected consonants. Syntagmatic changes of the second type have primarily
affected vowels. (McLendon 1973:13)
. Evidentials in comparative perspective
The six languages for which we have descriptions all have evidential systems,
but they differ in the number of evidentials they distinguish, their meanings,
and their forms. In two languages (Southeastern Pomo and Central Pomo)
the evidentials are clitics. In four languages (Eastern Pomo, Northern Pomo,
Southern Pomo, Kashaya) they are suffixes. The evidential morphemes and
their meanings are charted in Table 1.
The greatest agreement among the Pomoan languages is with the marking
of the hearsay evidential. All six languages have a hearsay evidential, with vir-
tually the same shape in five (Pse =do, Pe -·le, Pn -(‘)do, Pc =‘do/=‘doma, Ps
-do, Pk -do). Only Eastern Pomo differs.
All six languages have a sensory evidential (Pse =q’o [actually always
-n=q’o], Pe -nk’e, Pn -Vnhe, Pc -(V)nne, Ps -(V)n‘da, Pk -(V)nna). The forms
are suggestively similar but don’t appear to follow regular sound correspon-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.24 (124)
 Sally McLendon
Table 1. A comparision of evidentials in Pomoan languages
Southeastern Eastern Northern Central Southern Kashaya
hearsay -n + =do -·le -(‘)do =‘do·
/=‘doma
-do -do
inference 1 ‘ -(i)ne -na -mna
2 [=qa clitic] =‘ka -ka -q(a)
3 [=bi clitic] -ben -bi-(na)
sensory/
auditory
-n + =q’o
[-]q’o]
-nk’e sensory -Vnhe -(V)nme -(V)n‘da -(V)nna>(V)n
direct/
personal
experience/
perfective
-ya perfective -(y)a direct
knowledge
-ye
perfective
=ya 1st hand
personal
experience,
usually visual
-(w)a
personal
experience
-(w)(a) factual
visual =ya visual =ya 1st hand
personal
experience,
usually visual
-yă [=y(a)] visual
perfective
personal
agency‘
=la personal
agency
-(w)ela
imperfective
performative
personal af-
fectedness‘
=wiya personal
affect
-mela perfective
performative
established
fact
=‘ma general
knowledge
dences. (However, Southeastern q’ regularly becomes k’ in Eastern Pomo be-
fore front vowels.) The Northern Pomo form looks tantalizingly similar to the
Eastern Pomo form, but the correspondence of Northern Pomo /h/ to Eastern
Pomo /k’/ or /q’/ and Southeastern Pomo /q’/ is otherwise unattested. Oswalt
(1986) has indicated that the geminant /n/ in the Kashaya suffix looks like the
product of assimilation of a consonant cluster of two unlike consonants, such
as the cluster in Southern Pomo. The agreement in the final vowel of the suf-
fixes in Central Pomo, Northern Pomo and Eastern Pomo (spoken adjacent
to one another) cannot be an accident. But the lack of agreement with the
final vowel of the suffix in Southeastern Pomo on the one hand, or with the fi-
nal vowel in Kashaya and Southern Pomo cannot be explained. This evidential
appears to mark purely auditory evidence in all languages but Eastern Pomo.
All six languages have at least one inferential, some have more, but the
shapes don’t correspond neatly. Eastern Pomo, Northern Pomo, and South-
ern Pomo have resemblant forms: Pe -(i)ne: Pn -na: Ps -mna. The first two
languages were spoken next to each other. Their speakers were neighbors who
intermarried and often learned each other’s languages. Thus the similarities in
form could be due to diffusion as well as preservation of an earlier form.
In Central Pomo the inferential evidential clitic has the shape =‘ka. It re-
sembles inferential suffixes in the two languages spoken to its south and south-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.25 (125)
Evidentials in Eastern Pomo with a comparative survey 
west: Southern Pomo and Kashaya: Pc =‘ka: Ps -ka: Pk -q(a). The rarely occur-
ring, poorly understood Eastern Pomo clitic =qa which sometimes co-occurs
with the logical inferential evidential -(i)ne matches these other affixes in form,
although it occurs in a different position in the sentence. The sound corre-
spondence Pe q: Pc k: Ps k: Pk q is a widely attested one, so these affixes could
be cognate.
A third correspondence involves the Eastern Pomo clitic =bi, the South-
ern Pomo disagential dependent verb marking inferential suffx -ben, and the
Kashaya inferential -bi-. According to Oswalt (1986:41)
the chief difference between -bi- and -qă Inferential I is perhaps distributional;
-bi- is never verb-final but must be followed by some other suffix. It occurs in
four irregularly fused compound suffixes that form subordinate clauses: -bina
inference plus coreference of the agents of the subordinate and superordinate
clause; -bem inference with different agents in the two clauses; and -binati
and -beti, which add the meaning ‘although’ to the preceding pair. In (S30)
there is a similar type of inference in each clause, but different morphemes are
involved because one clause is subordinate to the other:
(S30) du‘k’u-bina
finish-inference. II
cohtoch
-qh
leave-inference. I
‘He must have finished and left (the work is done and he is no longer
here).’
The direct knowledge/personalexperience/factual evidential consists of a vowel
/a/ or /e/ preceded by a not always present glide (either /y/ or /w/) in all six lan-
guages. Although there is variation in the meaning of this morpheme between
languages, from direct knowledge to personal experience, fact and perfective,
they seem on a common semantic trajectory. In two languages, Southeastern
and Kashaya, there is a specifically visual evidential with the shape -ya or =ya.
In Central Pomo, the evidential indicates firsthand personal experience, usually
visual (Mithun 1999:181). In Northern Pomo -ye is a perfective. In Southeast-
ern the suffix -ya is perfective, while the clitic with the same shape, =ya, always
follows the absolutive suffix -n and is identified as a visual evidential.6
Central Pomo has three, and Kashaya two, additional evidentials. Eviden-
tials seem to have been especially elaborated in what Oswalt has called the
“Southern Group” of Pomoan languages: Central Pomo, Southern Pomo, and
Kashaya. Southern Pomo appears to have six evidentials, Central Pomo seven,
and Kashaya eight. The more northerly languages, Southeastern Pomo and
Northern Pomo have three evidential suffixes, while Eastern Pomo has four.
It is a pity that more is not known about the grammar of Coast Miwok, the
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.26 (126)
 Sally McLendon
language spoken immediately south of these Pomoan languages. Did it have
evidentials? And if so, how many?
In any case, Eastern Pomo with its four evidentials is both different from,
and similar to, the other Pomoan languages with their three to eight evidential
morphemes.
Notes
. This work would not have been possible without the many years of insightful explana-
tions, considered speech and discourse provided by a number of accomplished speakers of
Eastern Pomo: Bill Graves, Maude Bateman Boggs, Frances Posh Dennison, Leonard Bate-
man, Mike Gomez, and Ralph Holder (see McLendon 1999:509, 512–513 for brief biogra-
phies). Some of their many insights about their language are presented here. It would also
not have been possible without the financial support of a number of institutions over many
years: the Survey of California and Other Languages, Department of Linguistics, University
of California,Berkeley (1959–1964), the American PhilosophicalSociety, the City University
of New York Faculty Research Award Program, grant #11369, the Guggenheim Foundation,
the National Science Foundation, the National Institute of Mental Health, and the National
Endowment for the Humanities. I thank them all.
. In my grammar of Eastern Pomo (McLendon 1975:98–99) I claimed that when non-
first persons are explicitly marked as involved, the sensory evidential -ink’e was limited to
aural evidence, as in (11). Subsequent fieldwork, however, revealed utterances such as (12)
and (13), and established that sound is only the most frequently available source of sensory
evidence when other participants are involved, not the only one.
. Stem internal morpheme analysis will only be given when it is needed to understand the
meaning of the sentence, as here.
. This suffix was called indicative in McLendon 1975 and 1996.
. For more details about this concept see McLendon 1978a.
. One of the two example forms provided in Moshinsky (1974:71) seems to indicate direct
knowledge (as it would in Eastern Pomo), rather than visual evidence:
‘uyi
he.subject
‘à
I.subject
ba
subject.particle
c’ì-n-do
do-absolutive-quotative
nú-n-ya
say-absolutive-visual
‘He said that I did it’ [Interlinear translation is mine]
(“he-I-subject-did it, quotative-he said, visual” i.e. direct knowledge?)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.27 (127)
Evidentials in Eastern Pomo with a comparative survey 
References
Buckley, E. (1990). Glottalized and aspirated sonorants in Kashaya. Proceedings of the 1990
Hokan-Penutian languages workshop. Southern Illinois Occasional Papers on Linguistics,
15, 75–91.
—— (1991). Kashaya closed-syllable shortening and prosodic syllabification. Proceedings of
the West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics, 10, 65–74.
—— (1993). Kashaya laryngeal increments, contour segments, and moraic tier. Linguistic
Inquiry, 23, 487–496.
—— (1994a). Theoretical aspects of Kashaya phonology and morphology. Stanford: Center for
the Study of Language and Information.
—— (1994b). Persistent and cumulative extrametricality in Kashaya. Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory, 12, 423–464.
Halpern, A. M. (1962 ms.). The Reconstruction of Proto-Pomo. [Typescript of a lecture
given at the University of California, Berkeley, May 3, 1962.]
—— (1964). A report on a survey of Pomo languages (1939–1940). In W. Bright (Ed.),
Studies in Californian linguistics. University of California Publications in Linguistics 34
(pp. 88–93). Berkeley: University of California Press.
McLendon, S. (1969). Spanish words in Eastern Pomo. In Romance Philology, 23, 39–53.
—— (1973). Proto Pomo. University of California Publications in Linguistics, 71. Berkeley:
University of California Press.
—— (1975). The Eastern Pomo language. University of California Publications in Linguistics,
74. Berkeley: University of California Press.
—— (1976). The Proto Pomo pronominal system. In M. Langdon & S. Silver (Eds.), Hokan
studies: Papers from the first conference on Hokan languages, 1970 (pp. 29–53). The
Hague: Mouton.
—— (1977a). Cultural presuppositions and discourse analysis: patterns of presupposition
and assertion of information in Eastern Pomo and Russian narrative. In M. Saville-
Troike (Ed.), Georgetown University Round Table on Languages and Linguistics, 1977:
Linguistics and anthropology (pp. 153–190). Washington, DC: Georgetown University
Press.
—— (1977b). Bear kills her own daughter-in-law, Deer. In V. Golla & S. Silver (Eds.),
Northern California texts. International Journal of American Linguistics-Native American
Texts Series 3 (pp. 71–81).
—— (1978a). Ergativity, case and transitivity in Eastern Pomo. International Journal of
American Linguistics, 44, 1–9.
—— (1978b). Coyote and the ground squirrels. In W. Bright (Ed.), Coyote stories (pp. 87–
111). International Journal of American Linguistics-Native American Texts Series l.
—— (1978c). How languages die: A social history of unstable bilingualism among the
Eastern Pomo. In M. Langdon, K. Klar, & S. Silver (Eds.), American Indian and Indo-
European studies: Papers in honor of Madison Beeler (pp. 137–150). The Hague: Mouton.
—— (1979). Clitics, clauses, closure and discourse in Eastern Pomo. Proceedings of the
Berkeley Linguistic Society, 5, 637–646.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.28 (128)
 Sally McLendon
—— (1982). Meaning, rhetorical structure and discourse organization in myth. In
D. Tannen (Ed.), Georgetown University Round Table on Languages and Linguistics,
1981: Analyzing Discourse: Text and talk (pp. 284–305). Washington, DC: Georgetown
University Press.
—— (1983). How Coyote killed the Rattlesnake people: A Central Pomo story. (With Frances
Jack and Victoria Dicker-Kaplan). Ukiah, Ca.: Ukiah Bilingual-Bicultural Project-Title
VII.
—— (1985a). Beginning lessons in Eastern Pomo. (With Nathan Boggs and Wilbur
Augustine). Sacramento: San Juan Unified School District Indian Bilingual Program-
Title VII.
—— (1985b). Eastern Pomo word list. (With Nathan Boggs and Wilbur Augustine).
Sacramento: San Juan Unified School District Indian Bilingual Program-Title VII.
—— (1996). A sketch of the Eastern Pomo language. In W. C. Sturtevant (Ed.), Handbook
of North American Indians. Volume 17. Languages. I. Goddard (Ed.), (pp. 507–550).
Mithun, M. (1988a). Lexical categories and number in Central Pomo. In W. Shipley (Ed.),
In Honor of Mary Haas (pp. 517–537). Berlin: Mouton.
—— (1988b). The ‘passive’ in an active language. Southern Illinois University Occasional
Papers on Linguistics, 14, 39–45.
—— (1990a). Third-person reference and the function of pronouns in Central Pomo
natural speech. International Journal of American Linguistics, 56, 361–76.
—— (1990b). The role of lexicalization in shaping aspectual systems: Central Pomo.
Southern Illinois Occasional Papers on Linguistics, 15, 62–74.
—— (1993). Switch reference: clause combining in Central Pomo. International Journal of
American Linguistics, 59, 119–36.
—— (1997). The languages of Native North America. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
—— (1998). Fluid aspects of negation in Central Pomo. In L. Hinton & P. Munro (Eds.),
American Indian languages: description and theory (pp. 77–86). Berkeley: University of
California.
—— (1999). The languages of Native North America. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Moshinsky, J. (1974). A grammar of Southeastern Pomo. University of California Publications
in Linguistics 72. Berkeley: University of California Press.
—— (1976). Historical Pomo phonology. In M. Langdon & S. Silver (Eds.), Hokan studies:
Papers from the first conference on Hokan languages, 1970 (pp. 55–76). The Hague:
Mouton.
O’Connor, M. C. (1984). Case marking and third person point of view in Northern Pomo.
Proceedings of the Pacific Linguistic Conference, 1, 225–246.
—— (1986). Two kinds of bound anaphora in Northern Pomo: are they logophoric? Papers
from the 1983, 1984, 1985 Hokan-Penutial languages conferences. Southern Illinois
Occasional Papers on Linguistics, 13, 59–69.
—— (1990a). Suffixal aspect and tense-aspect in Northern Pomo. Proceedings of the 1990
Hokan-Penutian languages workshop. Southern Illinois Occasional Papers on Linguistics,
15, 52–61.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 12:51 F: TSL5405.tex / p.29 (129)
Evidentials in Eastern Pomo with a comparative survey 
—— (1990b). Third person reference in Northern Pomo conversation: the indexing of
discourse genre and social relations. International Journal of American Linguistics, 56,
377–409.
—— (1992). Topics in Northern Pomo Grammar. New York: Garland Press.
Oswalt, R. (1958). Russian loan words in Southwestern Pomo. International Journal of
American Linguistics, 24, 245–247.
—— (1961). A Kashaya Grammar. Ph.D. dissertation. University of California, Berkeley.
—— (1964a). The internal relationships of the Pomo family of languages. Actas and
Memorias de XXXV Congreso International de Americanistas, 2, 413–427.
—— (1964b). Kashaya texts. University of California Publications in Linguistics 36. Berkeley:
University of California Press.
—— (1976a). Baby talk and the genesis of some basic Pomo words. International Journal of
American Linguistics, 42, 1–13.
—— (1976b). Comparative verb morphology of Pomo. In M. Langdon & S. Silver (Eds.),
Hokan studies: Papers from the first conference on Hokan languages, 1970 (pp. 13–28).
The Hague: Mouton.
—— (1977a). Retribution for mate-stealing (Southern Pomo text). In V. Golla & S. Silver
(Eds.), Northern California texts. International Journal of American Linguistics-Native
American Texts Series, 3, 71–81.
—— (1977b). The causative as a reference switching mechanism in Western Pomo.
Proceedings of the Berkeley Linguistic Society, 3, 46–54.
—— (1983). Interclausal reference in Kashaya. In J. Haiman & P. Munro (Eds.), Switch
reference and universal grammar (pp. 267–290). Amsterdam: Benjamins.
—— (1986). The evidential system of Kashaya. In W. Chafe & J. Nichols (Eds.), Evidentiality:
the linguistic coding of epistemology (pp. 29–45). Norwood, New Jersey: Ablex.
—— (1988). The floating accent of Kashaya. In W. Shipley (Ed.), In Honor of Mary Haas
(pp. 611–622). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
—— (1990). The Perfective-imperfective opposition in Kashaya. Proceedings of the 1990
Hokan-Penutian languages workshop. Southern Illinois Occasional Papers on Linguistics,
15, 43–51.
—— (1998). Three laryngeal increments of Kashaya. In L. Hinton & P. Munro (Eds.),
American Indian languages: description and theory (pp. 87–94). Berkeley: University of
California.
Vihman, E. (1976). On pitch and accent in Northern Pomo. In M. Langdon & S. Silver
(Eds.), Hokan studies: Papers from the first conference on Hokan languages, 1970 (pp.
77–83). The Hague: Mouton.
—— (1998). Northern Pomo numerals: a quadriquinary vigesimal system. In L. Hinton
& P. Munro (Eds.), American Indian languages: description and theory (pp. 95–101).
Berkeley: University of California.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.1 (131)
Chapter 6
Evidentiality in Tariana
Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
. Preliminaries
Tariana, an endangered North Arawak language spoken in the multilingual lin-
guistic area of the Vaupés,1
distinguishes at least four evidential specifications
fused with non-future tense-marking enclitics: visual, nonvisual, inferred and
reported. The system in Tariana was developed under the areal influence of
East Tucanoan languages, mostly Tucano, which is now rapidly gaining ground
as a lingua franca of the whole Brazilian Vaupés. Younger speakers of Tariana
are developing a fifth, ‘assumed’, evidential, to match a corresponding struc-
ture in Tucano. Normally, omitting an evidential results in an ungrammati-
cal sentence. A reduced set of evidentials is found in interrogative clauses, in
commands, in apprehensive clauses and in purposives.
A brief typological overview is in order. Tariana is a polysynthetic lan-
guage which combines head-marking morphology with elements of depen-
dent marking. The open classes are nouns, verbs and adjectives. Tariana distin-
guishes simple predicates, serial verb constructions, and complex predicates.
Every verbal root is either ambitransitive of A=Sa type (prefixed) or intran-
sitive of type So or of type Sio (both prefixless). Person markers are used only
with transitive and active intransitive verbs; no markers occur on prefixless sta-
tive verbs, in agreement with the general active-stative profile inherited from
Proto-Arawak. The same set of prefixes marks possessors on inalienably pos-
sessed nouns (prefixes and personal pronouns are in Table 1). Simple pred-
icates have one prefix position and up to nine suffix positions. Unlike most
other Arawak languages, grammatical relations are also marked by cases, on a
nominative-accusative basis.
The tense-evidentiality enclitics in Tariana occupy a fixed slot in the struc-
ture of the verb shown in Diagram 1. Slot 15, reserved for evidentiality and
tense, is in bold. The tense-evidentiality specification is obligatory in ev-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.2 (132)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
Table 1. Person, gender and number prefixes and corresponding pronouns in Tariana
Prefix Pronoun Prefix Pronoun
1sg nu- nuha 1pl wa- waha
2sg pi- piha 2pl i- ihya
3sgnf di- diha 3pl na- naha
3sgf du- duha
Impersonal pa- paha
Diagram 1. Verb structure in Tariana
Prefix 1. Cross-referencing prefixes (A/Sa) (3 persons in singular and in plural), or
negative ma-, or relative ka-
2. ROOT
3. Thematic syllable
4. Causative -ita
5. Reciprocal (rarely: reflexive) -kaka
6. Negative -(ka)de
Suffixes 7. -ina ‘almost, a little bit’
8. Topic-advancing -ni, or passive -kana, or purposive nonvisual -hyu or visual
-kanu
9. Verbal classifiers
10. Benefactive -pena
11. Relativizers or nominalizers
12. Intentional ‘be about to’ =kasu
13. Mood and modality (imperative, declarative, frustrative, conditional,
apprehensive, etc)
14. Aspect ‘zone’ I
14a. Habitual prescribed =hyuna ‘what you do and what you ought to do’
14b. Customary =kape
14c. Habitual repetitive =nipe
14d. Anterior =nhi
Enclitics 15. Evidentiality and tense, e.g. =mhana ‘nonvisual-remote.past’
16. Epistemic =da ‘doubt’, =pada ‘isn’t it true that’
17. Aktionsart (manner or extent of associated action, e.g. ‘split open’, ‘step on
and feel pain’, ‘wag one’s tail’, ‘away’)
18. Degree (augmentative (also meaning ‘indeed’), diminutive, approximative
(‘more or less’))
19. Aspect ‘zone’ II
19a. Perfective =sita ‘already accomplished’
19b. Prolonged, ongoing =daka ‘yet, still’
19c. Repetitive =pita ‘once again’
19d. Completive =niki ‘totally, completely’
20. Switch-reference and clause-chaining markers
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.3 (133)
Evidentiality in Tariana 
ery clause. Like most enclitics in Tariana, the tense-evidentiality enclitics fre-
quently – but not always – go onto the predicate; alternatively they may go onto
any focussed constituent.
Tariana (like East-Tucanoan languages) distinguishes three tenses in most
evidentials: present, recent past and remote past – see Table 2.
Not all moods cooccur with evidentials. Complex predicates express
modality-like meanings such as apprehensive, ‘indefinite’ (‘whatever’), admi-
rative (‘surprise’), epistemic (‘probably’); they cooccur with the various evi-
dentials in different ways – we return to this in §5.
As mentioned above, Tariana is spoken in the multilingual area of the
Vaupés River basin. This area is known for its institutionalized multilingual-
ism based on the language group exogamy operating between speakers of
Tariana and of languages belonging to the East Tucanoan subgroup (includ-
ing Tucano, Piratapuya, Wanano and Desano). Multilingualism is maintained
through a strong inhibition against ‘language mixing’ viewed in terms of us-
ing lexical or grammatical morphemes from another language. However, this
long-term interaction between East Tucanoan languages and Tariana has re-
sulted in a rampant diffusion of patterns (not so much of forms) and calquing
of categories. These include dependent-marking properties (that is, case en-
clitics for core arguments), classifiers, number marking, aspect, and tense-
evidentiality.2
Comparison of Tariana with closely related North Arawak lan-
guages (Baniwa/Kurripako and Piapoco) helps to distinguish patterns inher-
ited from the protolanguage from those acquired through areal diffusion. Areal
diffusion is crucial in establishing the origins of the Tariana evidential system.
The Tariana grammar as used by older and more traditional speakers
differs in a number of quite dramatic ways from the structures found with
younger and more innovative speakers (see details in Aikhenvald 2001). The
main difference lies in the degree of East-Tucanoan influence. Younger people
tend to speak mostly Tucano – an East-Tucanoan language which, for a number
of historical reasons, is gradually becoming a lingua franca of the area. And in-
novative speakers tend to introduce new categories and constructions calquing
Table 2. Evidentials and tense in Tariana
present recent past remote past
Visual -naka -ka -na
Nonvisual -mha -mahka (from -mha-ka) -mha-na
Inferred ‘generic’ – -si-ka -si-na
Inferred ‘specific’ – -nihka (from -nhi-ka) -nhi-na
Reported -pida -pida-ka -pida-na
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.4 (134)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
the patterns of East-Tucanoan languages; these innovations are not employed
by more traditional people. The innovations are not as yet established in the
language and can be considered instances of on-going change (using the ter-
minology by Tsitsipis 1998:34). They contrast with the contact-induced cate-
gories which are fully accepted by speakers of all generations and can be viewed
as instances of completed change.
One instance of on-going areally-induced change is the emergenceof a fifth
evidential term calqued from Tucano by innovative speakers of Tariana – see
§2. Another is the treatment of the Tariana impersonal.
Tucano distinguishes between first person inclusive and first person exclu-
sive; traditional Tariana had no such distinction. But younger speakers of Tar-
iana employ the impersonal prefix and the impersonal pronoun in the mean-
ing of inclusive ‘we’. A construction paha nawiki (we:inclusive people) ‘us (all
the) people’ is often used in general statements about what everyone does,
while waha nawiki (we:excl people) ‘us the people’ may refer to a group that
includes just the speakers, not the addressee (for instance, in dialogues be-
tween people and evil spirits). The impersonal prefix can thus have a first per-
son (‘we:inclusive’) reference, and also a non first person reference (‘everyone;
one’). Evidentials help disambiguate these two meanings (see §5.2).
. Organization of the system:
Evidentials in affirmative clauses
In Tariana – just like in any East-Tucanoan language in the Vaupés area – every
sentence must contain an indication of how the information was acquired by
the speaker: whether they saw the event happen, or heard it, or know about it
because somebody else told them, etc. This is achieved through a set of eviden-
tial markers fused with tense (see Barnes 1984, 1999; Malone 1988). In Tariana
one cannot just say ‘Cecília scolded the dog’. This must be said in one of four
ways, depending on the source of information. If one saw Cecília scold the dog,
(1) would be appropriate:
(1) Ceci
Cecília
vinu-nuku
dog-top.non.a/s
du-kwisa-ka
3sgf-scold-rec.p.vis
‘Cecília scolded the dog’ (I saw it: visual)
If one just heard Cecília shouting at the dog, one would say:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.5 (135)
Evidentiality in Tariana 
(2) Ceci
Cecília
vinu-nuku
dog-top.non.a/s
du-kwisa-mahka
3sgf-scold-rec.p.nonvis
‘Cecília scolded the dog’ (I heard it: nonvisual)
If one sees a very unhappy dog (looking abashed and hiding from people),
the ‘inferred’ evidential is appropriate. Here, inference is based on general
knowledge about how dogs behave.
(3) Ceci
Cecília
vinu-nuku
dog-top.non.a/s
du-kwisa-sika
3sgf-scold-rec.p.infr
‘Cecília scolded the dog’ (I inferred it: inferred)
And if one learnt the information from someone else, the reported evidential
is the only choice:
(4) Ceci
Cecília
vinu-nuku
dog-top.non.a/s
du-kwisa-pidaka
3sgf-scold-rec.p.rep
‘Cecília scolded the dog’ (I have learnt it from someone else: reported)
That is, traditional Tariana has a C1 type system. Innovative speakers are de-
veloping an additional term to match a construction found in Tucano – that is,
the system is developing into a different type. This ‘specific inferred’ evidential
results from reanalysis of anterior aspect marker -nhi and a non-present vi-
sual evidential, forming combinations -nihka (from -nhi-ka) and -nhina (from
-nhi-na) (see §8).3
The ‘specific inferred’ evidential is used to refer to some-
thing one has not seen, but which is based on obvious evidence which can be
seen. For instance, if one saw angry Cecília with a stick in her hand, and the
scared dog running away, one could say (5), as an alternative to (3).
(5) Ceci
Cecília
vinu-nuku
dog-top.non.a/s
du-kwisa-nihka
3sgf-scold-spec.infr.rec.p. (=ant+rec.p.vis)
‘Cecília scolded the dog’ (I infer it on the basis of obvious evidence:
specific inferred)
The difference between the ‘generic’ inferred (as in (3)) and the ‘specific’ in-
ferred (as in (4)) lies in access to direct evidence of something happening
and to the degree of ‘reasoning’ involved. The less obvious the evidence and
the more speaker has to rely on reasoning based on general knowledge (or
common sense), the greater the chance that the generic inferred will be used
(see §3).
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.6 (136)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
. Semantics and use of evidentials in affirmative clauses
The semantics of evidentials and their main extensions are summarised in
Table 3.
Table 3. Semantics of evidentials in Tariana
Term Information source
Visual – §3.1 1. Information obtained through seeing, or data on events which can
be observed
2. Events for which speaker takes full responsibility and/or has a per-
sonal involvement
3. Generally known (and observable) facts
Nonvisual
‘sensory’ – §3.2
1. Events or states which the speaker has heard, smelt, tasted, or felt
but not seen
2. Events or states never seen (but perceived in some other ways, also
negative clauses: I did not see)
3. Accidental uncontrollable actions for which no responsibility is
taken (hence use with verbs of obligation, feeling, illness, physical
processes), as well as with verbs like ‘be lost’; actions in dreams,
descriptions of uncontrollable actions of evil spirits who cannot
be seen but can be felt and heard
Inferred
‘generic’ – §3.3
Information obtained by reasoning or common sense through observ-
ing evidence of an event or a state without directly experiencing it (no
present tense)
Inferred
‘specific’ – §3.3
Information obtained through observing direct evidence of an event
or a state (no present tense)
Reported – §3.4 1. Information obtained through repetition of information related
by someone else
2. A way of ‘distancing’ oneself from the responsibility
3. Preferred evidential in traditional stories
. Visual evidential
Visual evidentials refer to information obtained through seeing. They are fre-
quently used in pointing things out. The present visual evidential appears in
captions for photographs (used as materials for the Tariana literacy work-
shop organized by the author in 2000). Here and elsewhere evidentials are
underlined.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.7 (137)
Evidentiality in Tariana 
(6) hi-naka
dem:anim-pres.vis
iwi-taku-peni
salt-point-pl:anim
talia-seni
Tariana-pl
ha-yakale
dem:inan-cl:village
duhpani-yakale-naka
3sgf+work-cl:village-pres.vis
‘These are the Tariana of Santa Rosa (lit. ‘Point of Salt’)... this is the town
where she works’ (visual)
Visual evidentials are also used to talk about generally known and observable
facts, such as the change of seasons (7).
(7) hı̃
dem:anim
kuphe
fish
ne-ya-naka
3pl-spawn-pres.vis
‘(During this month) fish spawn’ (visual)
The visual evidential can be reinforced by lexical explanation (‘I saw it my-
self’), as in (8). Here, the storyteller used the remote past visual evidential to
stress that he had himself seen the stone – one of the traces of the Creator of
Manioc – which is still there. The rest of the story is told in remote past re-
ported (normal for a traditional story). This lexical ‘reinforcement’ provides
additional evidence in favour of ‘seeing’ as the basic semantics for the visual
evidential.
(8) di-nuku-i-ta-ka
3sgnf-go.down-caus-caus-sub
diha
art
kainiki-da
manioc-cl:round
di-wha-na
3sgnf-stay-rem.p.vis
nu-ka-na
1sg-see-rem.p.vis
nuha
I
kasina-misini
now-too
diha-da-nuku
he-cl:round-top.non.a/s
‘Downstream from it (a rapid) there is the manioc stone (visual), I have
seen this (round object) nowadays, too’ (visual)
Autobiographical stories are told using the visual evidential. An extract from
a story about how Raimundo Brito went looking for worms and got bitten by
a rat illustrates the opposition between visual and nonvisual. To describe the
noise he heard (he could not see what he thought were worms), Raimundo uses
nonvisual; nonvisual is also employed to talk about ‘being bitten’ – something
that is felt, not seen.
(9) haiku-na
wood-cl:vert
pa:-kena-tuki
one-cl:branch-dim
nu-thuka,
1sg-break
nu-munu
1sg-stick
nuka-na
1sg+get-rem.p.vis
nese
then
khameniku
make.noise
na-ni-mhana
3pl-do-rem.p.nonvis
nha
they
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.8 (138)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
katanapini
worms
nese-naku
then-top.non.a/s
nhupa
1sg+grab
numa-tha-na
1sg+look.for-fr-rem.p.vis
nese
then
nu-na
1sg-obj
mava
good
nu-kapi-da
1sg-hand-cl:round
i-whida-na-tuki
indef-head-der-dim
niwhã-mhana-niki
3sgnf+bite-rem.p.nonvis-cmpl
‘I broke a branch of a tree and stuck (it into the hole) (visual). Then the
worms were making a noise (nonvisual), then I grabbed (the stick) and
looked (for worms) in vain (visual). Then (the rat) bit me right on the
tip of my finger.’ (nonvisual)
The visual evidential is used when the speaker knows something for a fact, e.g.
kanu-ma-naka (scare-exc-pres.vis) ‘it is very dangerous (to walk in the jungle
at night)’. In the mouth of shamans and evil spirits, the visual evidential is asso-
ciated with their omniscience. Visual and nonvisual evidentials are contrasted
in (10): the son of the Creator uses the visual to describe what he could see,
and nonvisual to describe what he couldn’t see (but was supposed to):
(10) pai
Dad:voc
mesape-naki
turí-cl:bundle
ma-keta-de-mahka
neg-meet-neg-rec.p.nonvis
nuha
I
mawani-mia-ka
snake-only-rec.p.vis
di-swa
3sgnf-stay
‘Dad, I did not find the bundle of turí (nonvisual), there is only a snake
there’ (visual)
. Nonvisual evidential
The nonvisual evidential is used to talk about things one can hear but not
see – as in the second line of (9), or something one can’t see – as in (10), or
something one can smell – as in (11).
(11) ini
blood
puisani-pu-mha
smell.of.flesh-aug-pres.nonvis
‘There is a smell of (human) blood’ (said the evil spirit) (nonvisual)
The use of a nonvisual evidential often implies less certainty than the use of
visual (see discussion in §3.5).
The nonvisual evidential can be used to describe accidental uncontrollable
actions for which no responsibility is taken, e.g. wa-pika-mahka (1pl-get.lost-
rec.p.nonvis) ‘we got lost (accidentally)’, and physical states. (12) is a typical
way of talking about one’s own sickness.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.9 (139)
Evidentiality in Tariana 
(12) nu-na
1sg-obj
adaki
fever
di-nu-mha-niki
3sgnf-come-pres.nonvis-cmpl
‘I am overcome with fever’ (nonvisual)
In (13), from a story where the nasty uncle let the traira fish eat the son of the
Creator, the nonvisual evidential is used to downplay the responsibility of the
culprit who ‘overlooked’ what had happened. This is an example of how an
evidential can be manipulated to tell a lie. See §5.2.
(13) ka:nu-ka
fear-sub
nuha
I
[nu-a-mahka
1sg-let-rec.p.nonvis
nu-hña-niki]
1sg-eat-cmpl
‘Being scared, I (accidentally) let (the giant fish) eat (your son)’
(nonvisual)
. Inferred evidentials
The innovative Tariana has two inferred evidentials: ‘generic’ and ‘specific’. The
‘generic’ inferred is used to describe an event or a state which the speaker did
not observe, but about which they have enough general knowledge or com-
mon sense to draw conclusions. The contrast between nonvisual and generic
inferred is shown in (14) from the story about a woman who had married an
evil spirit; the children from her first marriage decided to kill him by letting
him drink poisonous manioc broth. He realises that something is wrong – the
broth does not smell right (he comments upon this using a nonvisual eviden-
tial), and concludes that it has not been properly cooked (this is marked with
an inferred evidential). She answers using the visual evidential – he trusts her,
drinks the broth and dies.
(14) kesani-ma-mha
smell-exc-pres.nonvis
diha
it
phimaka-kade-sika
ready-neg-rec.p.infr
diha
it
[...] nu-ní-kanu-wani
1sg-do-purp.vis-abstr
kayu-ka
so-rec.p.vis
nu-ni
1sg-do
nhua
I
‘It (the broth) has an excessive smell (nonvisual), it is (therefore) not
cooked (inferred generic) (he said), [...] I have made it as I always do
(visual) (she said).’
When Tiago, an indigenous politician, died, the general reaction was: di-sa-do-
nuku ma:vi-sika (3sgnf-spouse-fem-top.non.a/s bad-rec.p.infr) ‘it is bad for
her (to be left on her own with seven children)’.
The generic inferred is employed in culturally important stories, such as
the travels of the Tarianas’ ancestors (who are supposed to have left ‘signs’, such
as stones and caves, behind them); it is also used in translations. The specific
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.10 (140)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
inferred is preferred when telling others about the result of one’s inferences, as
in (15) (a continuation of (9) above).
(15) nese
then
inani
mucura.rat
ma:vite
bad+ncl:anim
di-ña
3sgnf-live
di-wapa-nhina
3sgnf-wait-spec.infr.rem.p
‘A nasty mucura rat lived there’ (specific inferred)
Neither of the inferred specifications has present tense forms (see §5.1). The
nonvisual present forms can be used if one has to make inferences with refer-
ence to the present. Once, in the village, we were walking behind a man and
couldn’t quite see who he was; I asked whether it was Batista, and the answer
was diha-mha (he-pres.nonvis) ‘It is him (nonvisual) (we infer it because of
his characteristic gait)’.
None of the inferred evidentials have any overtones of doubt or specula-
tion. Specific inference is considered more reliable than generic inference based
on reasoning – this goes together with the preference for visually obtained
information over any other (if there is a choice).
. Reported evidential
The reported evidential is used for information obtained from someone else.
The source of information may be explicitly stated, as in (16), but does not
have to be.
(16) inanu
woman
puimite-ka
menstruated+ncl:anim-sub
ke:ni
moon
ka-sa-do-pidaka
rel-spouse-fem-rec.p.rep
pedalia-pe
old-pl
na-sape
3pl-say
‘When a woman menstruates, she has been said to marry the moon, old
people say’ (reported)
Most stories are told in remote past reported. The typical beginning of a hunt-
ing story is:
(17) paita-pidana
one+num.cl:anim-rem.p.rep
ivini
game
ka-inu
rel-kill
‘There was one (man), a hunter’ (reported)
The reported evidential can be used if one wishes to avoid taking responsibility
for the information. In (18), the wife of a man who did not come back from the
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.11 (141)
Evidentiality in Tariana 
jungle tells his friends that he must have been eaten up by the evil spirit. She
uses the reported evidential to describe to her husband’s friends where he has
gone; she does it because she is dubious about the whole business. Since she was
there when her husband had gone to the jungle she ought to have used visual
evidential; the reported here is a sign of distrust. He did not come back – here
she uses visual to describe her own experience; and when mentioning that he
must have been eaten up she uses generic inferred: she had not heard (or seen!)
him being eaten, and this is the logically obvious thing to have happened to
someone who does not return from the jungle.
(18) i-kesini
2pl-blood.relative
pune
caraná
ka:-kani
rel+go-past.rel
ka-pida
rel+go-pres.rep
hyukade-naka
not.appear-pres.vis
diha
he
ñamu
evil.spirit
nihya-sika-niki
3sgnf+eat-rec.p.infr-cmpl
di-na
3sgnf-obj
‘Your friend (said that he) went to get caraná palm (from the jungle)
(reported). He is not here (visual). The evil spirit has eaten him up
(generic inferred).’
Tariana speakers have a varied degree of cultural knowledge – this manifested
itself very clearly during our work on Tariana place names. Speakers with good
cultural knowledge were fully certain about place names and used visual evi-
dentials; those who were not so certain used nonvisual; the least knowledge-
able ones used reported. For obscure place names, the responses ranged from
(19a) to (19c):
(19) a. Manaka-taku-naka
açai-point-pres.vis
hipada
stone
nawiki
people
nha
they
na-dana-nipe-naka
3pl-writing-nmlz-pres.vis
‘It is ‘Açai-point’, there is writing of stone people there (that is, petro-
glyphs)’: visual since the speaker knows it for a fact
b. Manaka-taku-mha
açai-point-pres.nonvis
‘It is ‘Açai-point”: nonvisual since this, younger, speaker is not sure
c. Manaka-taku-pida
açai-point-pres.rep
‘It is ‘Açai-point”: reported since this young speaker does not know;
all he does is quote the old man
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.12 (142)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
. How to choose the correct evidential
How is an evidential chosen if one has access to more than one information
source? The principles are:
i. if there is visual evidence, the visual evidential is preferred;
ii. the nonvisual evidential is preferred if no visual evidence is available;
iii. the specific inferred is preferred if one can see the ‘proof’ that the action
did take place;
iv. if there is enough evidence to make inference based on common sense or
general knowledge, the generic inferred in appropriate.
The reported evidential must be used if the information has been obtained
from someone else.
Here is an illustration. In Rafael’s house in Santa Rosa (where we stayed)
there was a cuckoo clock which would play a tune on the hour, and a little bird
would appear. Inside the room, I was told to say (20), with the visual evidential,
to describe this. Since we could see the clock in action, the use of a nonvisual
evidential was considered strange.
(20) keni-da
sun/moon-cl:round
di-napa-ka-sita
3sgnf-sing/dance-rec.p.vis-pfv
‘The clock has sung’ (visual)
When one heard the clock from outside the room (without seeing it), the way
to describe it was:
(21) keni-da
sun/moon-cl:round
di-napa-mahka-sita
3sgnf-sing/dance-rec.p.nonvis-pfv
‘The clock has sung’ (nonvisual)
To say what time it was, one had to say (22a) if one could see the clock; (22b)
would be correct for someone outside the room who could hear it (or was not
looking at the clock); and (22c) would be correct if we hadn’t heard the tune,
for instance, but ‘inferred’ it from counting the number of strokes.
(22) a. oito
eight
hora-ka-naka
hour-decl-pres.vis
‘It is eight o’clock’ (visual)
b. oito
eight
hora-ka-mha
hour-decl-pres.nonvis
‘It is eight o’clock’ (nonvisual)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.13 (143)
Evidentiality in Tariana 
c. oito
eight
hora-ka-sika
hour-decl-rec.p.infr
‘It is eight o’clock’ (generic inferred)
The preference for visual information – if one has it – accounts for the preferred
choice of the specific inferred – rather than the generic inferred – when telling
others about one’s inferences (as in (15) above).
Manipulating the choice of evidentials allows speakers to be inventive in
telling lies. One can give the right information with a wrong evidential, as in
(13); or the wrong information with the correct evidential, as in (23). In this
story, a jaguar has actually grabbed a turtle by its foot; however, the smart tur-
tle deceives the jaguar by telling him he had actually grabbed the root of a
tree. The turtle uses visual evidential because both participants can see what is
happening.
(23) awiña
wacú.tree
i-pani-nuku
indef-root-top.non.a/s
phipa-naka
2sg+grab-pres.vis
‘You are grabbing the root of a tree (not my leg, as you think)’ (visual)
. Evidentials in other clause types
Tariana has a three-way evidentiality specification in interrogative clauses. Im-
perative clauses have just one evidential, while exclamatory clauses do not al-
low evidentials. Most dependent clauses (that is, complement clauses, relative
clauses and subordinate clauses) have no separate tense-evidentiality marking.
. Evidentials in interrogative clauses
Tariana includes a three-way evidential specification in its interrogative mark-
ing (like East-Tucanoan languages). The paradigm is given in Table 4.
Yes-no questions do not contain any question word; they are distinguished
by rising intonation, and the choice of an evidential. Content questions contain
Table 4. Evidentials and tense in interrogative clauses in Tariana
present past remote past
Visual -nha -nihka -nhina
Nonvisual -tha, -mha -mha (-mhana)
Inferred – -sika -sina
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.14 (144)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
a question word; for innovative speakers the use of evidential is then optional.
Traditional speakers do not omit them. The morphemes -mha and -tha are
variants for younger speakers; traditional speakers use just -tha.
The use of an evidential in a question presupposes the questioner’s as-
sumption about the answerer’s source of information. A visual evidential in
a question indicates that the person asking assumes the person asked saw the
action. Every day in Santa Rosa my Tariana brothers would ask me, on seeing
me coming back from the river with a wet towel:
(24) pi-pita-nihka
2sg-bathe-rec.p.vis.inter
phia?
you
‘Have you bathed?’ (visual)
Using visual evidential may imply an assumption on the part of the speaker
about what the addressee knows. (25) is a question to which (13) is the answer.
The Creator – whose son was killed through the criminal negligence of his nasty
uncle – is sure that the uncle let the boy be eaten by a fish, and was to blame.
(25) nuni
1sg+son
kani-nihka
where-past.vis.inter
di-a
3sgnf-go
diha
he
‘My son, where is he gone?’ (visual)
The uncle denies his crime by saying (13); but the Creator continues inter-
rogating him using the visual evidential – as in (26). This sounds like an
accusation.
(26) kwe-nihka
why-past.vis.inter
kay-pi-ni-niki
thus-2sg-do-cmpl
phia
you
‘Why did you do it?’ (visual)
Nonvisual interrogatives are used when the speaker presupposes that the ad-
dressee does not have access to any visual information. In (27) a present
nonvisual interrogative evidential is used in a question about the origin of a
peculiar sound.
(27) kuite
inter+cl:anim
yaphini-mha
thing-pres.nonvis.inter
kayu
thus
pimi:te
sound+cl:anim
‘What thing (that we can’t see) could have been making a sound like this?’
(nonvisual)
Inferred evidentials in interrogative clauses are used if the person asking the
question assumes that the person being asked has no knowledge whatsoever.
When we arrived in Iauaretê (a mission village) after a tiring journey of sev-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.15 (145)
Evidentiality in Tariana 
eral hours on an overcrowded canoe, it turned out that my classificatory
mother Maria was gone, and had hidden the key to the house. The speakers’
reaction was:
(28) kani-se
where-loc
du-sueta-sika
3sgf-stay+caus-past.infr.inter
‘Where on earth has she put it?’ (inferred)
The preferences for evidentials in interrogative clauses follow similar lines to
those in affirmative clauses. A visual evidential presupposes that the addressee
has had direct experience; it is the preferred evidential since visual evidence is
valued more than any other. However, it may be accusatory – since it implies
an assumption on the part of the speaker which the addressee may not agree
with (as in (13)). A nonvisual evidential presupposes less direct access to infor-
mation, while an inferred evidential – which in fact covers any kind of indirect
experience – implies that the questioner assumes that the addressee can hardly
give an informed answer.
The semantic connotations of evidentials in interrogative clauses are
shown in Table 5.
Since asking a question involves making assumptions about the source of
the other person’s information, it is not culturally appropriate to ask too many
questions in Tariana. One asks a question if one is sure the ‘responder’ can
provide the desired information. Otherwise, asking a question may presuppose
the ‘questioner’s’ insistance – which is readily interpreted as due to the fact that
(s)he suspects that something is wrong.
Table 5. Semantic connotations of evidentials in interrogative clauses
Term Semantics
Visual 1. You saw something which I also saw, or which I did not see
2. I am sure you know
3. You do know and/or you are responsible for the action: accusation
Nonvisual 1. You haven’t seen it (you may have heard it, or smelt it)
2. You may not know
3. You are not really responsible
Inferred 1. You do not have any firsthand information about it
2. You are not knowledgeable (You do not know enough)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.16 (146)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
. Evidentials in imperatives
Of the nine imperatives in Tariana, only one – secondhand – has an evidential
type of meaning. It is marked with the clitic -pida, also found in other reported
tense-evidentiality specifications (see Table 2). Saying pi-nu-pida (2sg-come-
impv.sec) means ‘come because somebody told you to’.
The secondhand imperative -pida can cooccur with other imperative
markers, which cannot cooccur with each other.4
It easily occurs with the prox-
imate imperative and with the distal imperative, following either marker, e.g.
hi-nuku pi-theta-kada-pida (dem:anim-top.non.a/s 2sg-correct-dist.impv-
impv.sec) ‘correct this (over there) (on her order)’ and hi-nuku pi-theta-si-pida
(dem:anim-top.non.a/s 2sg-correct-prox.impv-impv.sec) ‘correct this (here,
next to the speaker) (on her order)’. This cooccurrence shows that the second-
hand imperative may be treated as a category distinct from other imperatives.5
. Evidentials in non-affirmative clauses: a summary
We have seen that fewer evidentials are used in questions and in commands
than in affirmative clauses. The three different subsystems are summarized
in Table 6.
The distinction between reported and inferred evidentials is neutralized in
interrogative clauses in Tariana (as well as in East-Tucanoan languages). Evi-
dence for this comes from the ‘conversation sustainer’ question–response pat-
tern. This is the most common strategy for showing a listener’s participation
in conversational interaction.
When A (speaker) tells a story, B (listener) is expected to give feedback,
after just about every sentence, by repeating the predicate (or the last verb
within a serial verb construction) accompanied by an interrogative eviden-
tial. These pseudo-questions do not have a question intonation. The existing
correspondences are given in Diagram 2.
Table 6. Subsystems of evidentials in Tariana in different clause types
Type of system Terms in the system Clause type
traditional: C1
(four term)
Visual, Nonvisual, Inferred, Reported Affirmative
innovative:
five term
Visual, Nonvisual, Inferred ‘generic’, Inferred ‘specific’,
Reported
B2 Visual, Nonvisual, Inferred Interrogative
A3 Reported (vs everything else) Imperative
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.17 (147)
Evidentiality in Tariana 
Diagram 2. Evidentials in question–response
A: visual → B: visual
A: non-visual → B: non-visual
A: inferred → B: inferred
A: reported → B: inferred
A visual–visual pair is illustrated in (30), and a reported–inferred in (31).
(30) A: haw
OK
di-a-ka
3sgnf-say-rec.p.vis
‘He said, “OK”’ (visual)
B. di-a-nihka
3sgnf-say-past.vis.inter
‘He said it?’ (visual)
(31) A: heku-nuku
yesterday-top.non.a/s
du-nu-pidaka
3sgf-come-rec.p.rep
‘She has been said to have come yesterday’ (reported)
B: du-nu-sika
3sgf-come-past.infr.inter
‘She is coming?’ (inferred)
. Evidentials and other grammatical categories
In §§5.1–5.4 we consider interactions between evidentials and tense; eviden-
tials and person; evidentials and negation; and evidentials and modalities.
There are no restrictions on the cooccurrence of the Tariana evidentials with
any of the numerous aspects and aktionsarts. Conditions under which eviden-
tials can be omitted are discussed in §5.5.
. Evidentials and tense
East-Tucanoan languages and Tariana distinguish three tenses in visual and
nonvisual evidentials: present, recent past and remote past. These tenses refer
to the time when the action or state started and to the time when the infor-
mation was acquired. Present tense is used for the action or state which has
just started and is ongoing; recent past is used for something which started a
few minutes to a few days ago, and remote past is used when the action or state
started a long time ago – either of these may, or may not, be finished. The clause
itawhya alia-naka (canoe exist-pres.visual) means ‘there is a canoe (I can
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.18 (148)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
see it; and/or am pointing at it)’, itawhya alia-ka (canoe exist-rec.p.visual)
means ‘there has been a canoe’, or ‘the canoe has been here for a little while’
(from few minutes to a couple of days ago), and itawhya alia-na (canoe exist-
rem.p.visual) means ‘there was a canoe (I saw it, it is gone now)’ or ‘there is a
canoe (and it has been here for a long while; I can see it and saw it before)’.
Neither of the inferred specifications has present tense.6
This makes sense
because one can only infer something after it has happened.
The reported evidential differs from other evidentials in that tense speci-
fication refers exclusively to the time of the report; the time of the actual hap-
pening is irrelevant. (32) was said immediately after we heard a radio message
about the untimely death of the indigenous politician Tiago (he had died a few
days prior to the message).
(32) Tiago
Tiago
di-ñami-pida
3sgnf-die-pres.rep
‘Tiago has died’
A couple of days later, another speaker arrived from the mission village; he had
learnt the sad news a couple of days prior to his arrival, and said:
(33) Tiago
Tiago
di-ñami-pidaka
3sgnf-die-rec.p.rep
‘Tiago has died’
(34) was said by a speaker who learnt about it a week or so before the time of
the utterance.
(34) di-ñami-pidana
3sgnf-die-rem.p.rep
‘He died’
Present reported is often used like a quotative marker, when something some-
one just said is repeated. During our work on place names, if I couldn’t quite
hear the name, José Luis (a younger speaker) would repeat it after his father
Cândido using -pida, e.g. manaka-taku-pida (açai-point-pres.rep) ‘(the name
is) Point of Açai (he says)’.
No evidentials are distinguished in future tense. However, reported eviden-
tials allow a ‘double tense’ specification whereby one can describe future events
reported by someone else. Future nominalizations are used then:
(35) du-ñami-kanu-pidaka
3sgf-die-fut.nom-rec.p.rep
‘She was said (a short time ago) to be going to die (in the future)’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.19 (149)
Evidentiality in Tariana 
(36) du-ñami-kanu-pidana
3sgf-die-fut.nom-rem.p.rep
‘She was said (a long time ago) to be going to die (in the future)’
We have seen that the reported evidential differs from other evidentials in its
tense reference, and in its correlations with clause types: there is no reported
specification in interrogative clauses. The reported is unique among other evi-
dentials in that it allows ‘double’ tense marking. These properties indicate sep-
arate visual-based and reported-based evidential subsystems in Tariana. There
is also diachronic evidence for their separate development: the reported ev-
idential is likely to be inherited from Proto-Arawak, while other evidentials
emerged as the result of areal diffusion from Tucano languages. See §8.
. Evidentials and person
There are no special correlations between the use of person and the visual ev-
idential (though, when talking about one’s own experience, the visual eviden-
tial is preferred). Nonvisual evidentials are preferred with verbs of mental and
physical processes, wanting and feeling, when describing a state experienced by
first person subject, as in (37) and in the second clause of (39).
(37) nhesini-mha
like-pres.nonvis
(nuha)
I
‘I like it’ (nonvisual)
Nonvisual evidentials are preferred with first person experiencers, as in (12)
and (38), and to describe sensations in the speaker’s body parts (39).
(38) hape-pu-mha
cold-aug-pres.nonvis
nu-na
1sg-obj
‘I am very cold’ (nonvisual)
(39) nu-sami
1sg-back
kai-pu-mha
ache-aug-pres.nonvis
nu-na-thama7
1sg-want-fr+pres.nonvis
nu-wha
1sg-sit
‘My back is aching, I want to sit down’ (nonvisual)
Since one cannot ‘feel what the other person feels’, a normal choice for a non-
first person subject would be a visual evidential if one can see the signs of a
physical or mental state. (40) was used to describe a toddler who liked the way
his grandfather was treating him: it was a comment on what one could see.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.20 (150)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
(40) nhesini-pu-ka
like-aug-rec.p.vis
diha
he
‘He likes it’ (visual)
Inferred evidential can be used to describe a second or a third person’s feel-
ings if one did not see the person showing any signs of this; but could make
inferences. One of the Tariana commented on how I appeared to feel on an
overcrowded canoe:
(41) wepa-sika
be.numb(of.limbs)-rec.p.infr
duha
she
‘She (that is, her limbs) must be numb’ (inferred)
A minute later, Jovino complained (about himself), using nonvisual:
(42) wepa-pu-mha
be.numb(of.limbs)-aug-pres.nonvis
nu-a
1sg-go
nhua
I
‘I (my limbs) are getting very numb’ (nonvisual)
Similarly, the nonvisual evidential can be used to describe something that hap-
pened accidentally, as in (13). The choice of the visual evidential would imply
volition and control on the part of the speaker; in contrast, nonvisual may im-
ply that the action was done ‘accidentally’. If the bad uncle in (13) had said
nu-a-ka (1sg-let-rec.p.vis), he would have been assuming full responsibility
for his crime.
The first-person-like usage of the nonvisual evidential helps distinguish the
two meanings of the impersonal prefix pa- and the corresponding impersonal
pronoun. When the impersonal is used in the first person inclusive sense, ‘us’,
the nonvisual evidential is used with verbs of feeling and wanting, as in (43).
(43) yaseni-ku-ne-mia-na
Tucano-der-inst-only-rem.p.vis
pa-sape-hyuna
imp(1st.incl)-talk-cust
kapemani-mhana
feel.shame-rem.p.nonvis
pha
impersonal(1st.incl)
‘(We) spoke only Tucano, we felt shame’ (nonvisual)
But if the impersonal has a generic non-first person reference, the nonvisual
evidential cannot be used to refer to the internal states or feelings; another
evidential specification has to be used instead. (44) describes a general fact –
and the visual evidential is appropriate here.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.21 (151)
Evidentiality in Tariana 
(44) hiku-naka
thus-pres.vis
pa-nena
imp-feel
vãni
man
‘This is how a man feels’ (visual)
The nonvisual evidential occasionally occurs with a second or third person
who the speaker is closely observing; this usage implies that the speaker identi-
fies themself with the other person. It is functionally similar to using ‘disjunct’
markers with first person (where conjunct markers would be appropriate), to
signal ‘empathy’ or ‘engagement’ with the speaker. (45) was a comment on
Jovino’s state: after he had stepped on a nail, he was lying in his hammock
exhausted by fever. Everyone seemed to know how he felt.
(45) pa-kamia-nipe
imp-illness-nmlz
Juvi-nuku
Jovino-top.non.a/s
inuna
lazy,debilitated
di-ni-mahka
3sgnf-do-rec.p.nonvis
‘Illness has made Jovino debilitated’ (nonvisual)
Inferred evidentials are used with first person if the first person was uncon-
scious of what was happening to them (and had to make inferences about their
situation). I do not have any examples of reported with first person.
. Evidentials and negation
Any evidentiality specification can occur in a negative clause. Nonvisual evi-
dentiality is frequently used to describe what the speaker ‘did not see’, or ‘did
not do’ – as in (9). (46) illustrates remote past visual in a negative clause (the
use of visual is explained by the fact that the girl was doing this in front of
the speaker):
(46) kaipeda
all.the.time
du-musu
3sgf-go.out
kunipua-na
not.at.all-rem.p.vis
dhuma-niki
3sgf+hear-cmpl
‘She had been going out all the time, she had not been listening (to us) at
all (and still isn’t)’ (visual)
. Evidentials and modalities
Except for the affirmative,which is unmarked, the declarative-assertive (marked
with -ka), frustrative (-tha) and intentional (-kasu) show tense-evidentiality
distinctions. The uncertainty marker -da and the counterexpectation marker
-pada can cooccur with any evidential except for present visual. The uncer-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.22 (152)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
tainty marker with a nonvisual evidential is shown in (47); it occurs with
inferred in (48).
(47) wepeni-pua-se
poison-cl:river-loc
di-a-thama-da
3sgnf-say-fr+pres.nonvis-doubt
‘He must have said “wepeni-pua-se” (but I am not sure I heard it right)’
(nonvisual)
(48) aı̃-tha-sika
here-fr-rec.p.infr
na-yaketa-da
3pl-get.together+caus-doubt
‘It is here that they probably put it’ (said the Eagle who inferred that people
must have used their plates to store the down they had stolen from him,
but he was not totally sure) (inferred)
The conditional-potential (-bohta) bears no evidentiality distinctions. Appre-
hensive and purposive have a separate system of evidentiality-like meanings,
discussed in §§5.4.1–5.4.2.
Tariana has a number of complex predicates with modality-like mean-
ings. Of these, ‘admirative’ – expressing surprise – can occur with any tense-
evidentiality specifications. The admirative is expressed with a complex predi-
cate of the following structure: lexical verb plus suffix -mhe plus auxiliary verb
-a ‘go, say, let, give’. Both the lexical verb and the auxiliary receive same sub-
ject cross-referencing; no constituent can intervene between the two. (49) de-
scribes Olívia’s surprise based on visual evidence. Here and elsewhere complex
predicates are in square brackets.
(49) Oli
Oli
yanu-si
thing-nposs
ma-weni-de-ka
neg-pay-neg-sub
[du-ka-mhe
3sgf-see-adm
du-a-ka]
3sgf-aux-rec.p.vis
‘Olívia was surprised at things being cheap’ (lit. ‘Olívia, things being
cheap, looked (at this) in admiration’) (visual)
In (50), an admirative form is marked with nonvisual evidential since it de-
scribes the internal feeling of the speaker (cf. §5.2):
(50) [haname-mhe
frighten-adm
nu-a-mhana]
1sg-aux-rem.p.nonvis
‘I could not believe my eyes’ (I was scared in surprise) (nonvisual)
An epistemic complex predicate with repetition consists of two occurrences
of the same verb with identical cross-referencing without any overt marking of
syntactic dependency. Its meaning is ‘maybe, probably’. It can cooccur with any
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.23 (153)
Evidentiality in Tariana 
tense-evidentiality specification except for present visual. The evidential refers
to the way the information on the event was acquired. If one cannot see what
is happening, (51) is appropriate:
(51) [tanada
alive
tanada-mha]
alive-pres.nonvis
ma-yekana-de-mha
neg-know+pass-neg-pres.nonvis
‘It is not known whether he (a drunk lying in the street) is alive or not’
(nonvisual)
In (52) the evidence is visible to the people – who have doubt only as to how to
interpret it.
(52) hı̃
dem:anim
[di-pe-ka-nhi
3sgnf-leave-rec.p.vis-ant
di-pe-sita]
3sgnf-leave-pfv
‘He must have left (the house and the utensils) already’ (said the people
who saw the house and the utensils left behind by the otter) (visual)
And if one has enough general evidence to make an inference, a generic in-
ferred would be appropriate. Rafael used to boast about being able to cure
coughs by blessing. After one of his children actually stopped coughing, others
commented incredulously:
(53) kwe
how
di-a
3sgnf-say
[di-ñapa
3sgnf-bless
di-ñapa-sina]
3sgnf-bless-rem.p.infr
ma-yekade-mha
neg-know+neg-pres.nonvis
‘Whether he (Rafael) had done the blessing or not, (we) don’t know’
(inferred)
The ‘indefinite’ complex predicate (meaning ‘whatever’) also combines with
any evidential except for present visual. Such a predicate has the following
structure: subordinator kani ‘where’ or kwe ‘how’ followed by two occurrences
of the same verb. Just as in the case of epistemic complex predicates, the choice
of evidential depends on the information on which the statement is based.
Rafael said (54), when asked about his whereabouts the previous night. He ob-
viously had visual information on where he had danced (but was not prepared
to tell).
(54) [kani
where
nu-napa
1sg-dance
nu-napa-ka]
1sg-dance-rec.p.vis
‘Wherever I danced I danced (and this is none of your business)’ (visual)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.24 (154)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
Complex predicates of this kind are frequently used with non-visual eviden-
tials, if one has no visual information. In (55), the speaker has no idea about
where his sister is – but she must be somewhere.
(55) [kani
where
alia
exist
alia-mha]
exist-pres.nonvis
‘She must be somewhere (but I don’t know where she is)’ (nonvisual)
The inferred evidential is appropriate if there is sufficient reason to make an
inference. Maria used to hide the key to the house whenever she went out for
the whole day; she never lost it. This is good enough reason for an inference –
she must have put the key somewhere, but we don’t know where.
(56) [kani
where
du-sue
3sgf-lie+caus
du-sue-ta-sika]
3sgf-lie+caus-caus-rec.p.infr
‘She must have put (the key) somewhere (but we have no idea where)’
(inferred)
The cooccurrences between various modalities and evidentiality in Tariana dis-
cussed throughout this section – and summarized in Table 7 – show that evi-
dentiality and modalities, especially epistemic ones, are plainly different cate-
gories. Present visual appears to be the specification having the most restric-
tions on its cooccurrence with meanings related to uncertainty, doubt and
so on. Presumably this has to do with the intrinsic certainty of immediately
available visual evidence.
We will now turn to two further modalities which distinguish evidentiality-
type meanings of different kinds, forming special subsystems within the
language.
Table 7. Cooccurrence of evidentials with modalities in Tariana
Modality Evidentiality specifications used
Non-future indicative all specifications
Declarative-assertive -ka all specifications
Intentional -kasu all specifications
Frustrative -tha all specifications
Uncertainty -da all except present visual
Counterexpectation -pada all except present visual
Conditional -bohta none
Admirative all
Epistemic ‘probably’ all except present visual
Indefinite ‘whatever’ all except present visual
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.25 (155)
Evidentiality in Tariana 
.. Evidentiality meanings in the apprehensive
The apprehensive (‘lest something happen’) does not combine with any tense-
evidentiality markers. Instead, it has its own evidential-type distinctions. The
enclitic -ñhina marks ‘nonvisual apprehensive’: it implies that, according to the
speaker, the addressee cannot see what he or she is doing, or the speaker cannot
see what the addressee is doing. Someone who is walking in front can say to a
person behind them who might be not cautious enough:
(57) nu-pumi
1sg-after
pi-pinita
2sg-follow
mẽda
however
pi-wha-ñhina
2sg-fall-appr.nonvis
‘Do follow me, or else you might fall down (you are not looking)’
The visual apprehensive -da is used if both the speaker and the addressee can
see what is happening:
(58) mava
good
pi-ni
2sg-do
pi-wha-da
2sg-fall-appr.vis
‘Be careful, lest you fall (we can both see what is happening)’
The apprehensive complex predicate, of the structure verb-da say-subordi-
nator-ka, is employed if the speaker does not have firsthand information (then
the warning is typically attributed to a third person). Or the danger could be
common knowledge, as in (59): one does not have to see whether it is raining
or not to know that the road will become slippery and one can fall down.
(59) iya
rain
di-wha-ka
3sgnf-fall-sub
mava
good
pi-ni
2sg-do
[pi-wha-da
2sg-fall-appr
nu-a-ka]
1sg-say-sub
‘When it is raining, be careful, lest you fall, I am saying’
The three-term evidentiality-like distinction in apprehensive is a subsystem
separate from evidentiality in other clause types. Cross-linguistically, a visual
versus nonvisual opposition in apprehensives appears to be rare. A similar
distinction is attested in Nivkh (isolate) (Gruzdeva 1992:60).
.. Evidentiality meanings in purposives
Purposive verb forms in Tariana mark the predicate of purpose clauses and
of complement clauses for some verbs. Purposives cannot take the tense-
evidentiality marking discussed in the main part of this paper. Instead, they
distinguish visual and nonvisual. The visual purposive -kanu is illustrated in
(60), and the nonvisual purposive -hyu in (61).
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.26 (156)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
(60) wasã
let’s.go
tanada-peni
alive-pl:anim
wehta-kanu
1pl+take-purp.vis
wa
1pl+go
‘Let’s go and get the living ones (fish) (we can see them)’
(61) tanada-peni
alive-pl:anim
duhta-hyu
3sgf+take-purp.nonvis
du-a-pidana
3sgf-go-rem.p.rep
‘She went to get the living ones (fish) (she cannot see them and they may
not be there)’
. Omission of evidentials
Tense-evidentiality marking is usually obligatory: for every sentence, tense and
evidentiality should be specified. However, tense-evidentiality can sometimes
be omitted. Firstly, if the time-and-evidence frame has been set in the previ-
ous clause, the whole sentence can receive just one marker – as is the case in
(46). Here, the first clause ‘she goes out all the time’ does not have any tense-
evidentiality: the remote past visual marking goes onto the second clause. The
two clauses form one sentence – this is marked through a fall-rise intonation
on the predicate of the first clause.
Tense-evidentiality marking can be omitted in short answers, as shown in
(62). (Incidentally, haw ‘OK, yes’ and hãida ‘I don’t know’ do not take any
evidentiality markers; Tariana has no word for ‘no’.) Note that a more elaborate
answer requires tense-evidentiality – as in (63).
(62) kwe
what
pi-ni-ka-hna
2sg-do-decl-pres.vis.inter
phia?
you
ma-ni-kade
neg-do-neg
‘What are you doing?’ (asked the jungle woman) ‘Nothing (in particular)’
(lit. ‘do not do’) (said the man)
(63) nuhpani-ka-naka
1sg+work-decl-pres.vis
‘I am working’ (visual)
. Evidentiality strategies
As often happens in large evidentiality systems, there are no evidentiality strate-
gies as such: that is, no category acquires the meaning of source of information
as an additional sense. We saw in §5.4 that modalities with the meaning of
uncertainty or doubt do not have any evidential meanings by themselves; how-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.27 (157)
Evidentiality in Tariana 
ever, most of them can combine with all the evidentials except for the present
visual. There are other ways of saying ‘maybe’ – one is a clause-like complex
predicate pa:pe -ni- (maybe do) ‘possibly’ used to conjecture future events. If
one is talking about one’s opinion, an expression nuha nu-hmeta-ni-nuku (I
1sg-thin-rel-top.non.a/s) ‘to my mind, in my thinking’ can be added: this
expression is often used with nonvisual and inferred evidentials.
The ‘lexical reinforcement’ of evidentiality – illustrated in (8) – provides
metalinguistic justification for associating evidentiality markers with particu-
lar sources of evidence. Frequently, if a speaker did see something and tells a
story about it in visual evidential, but then realizes that their audience is a bit
incredulous, they may choose strengthen their ‘visual source’ by saying ‘I saw
it’. The following example comes from a story told by the oldest living speaker
of Tariana about a ritual no-one else has seen but him.
(64) nha
they
ava-mia,
men-only
ina-nuku
women-top.non.a/s
na-musu-ita-thui
3pl-go.out-caus-all
na:-niki
3pl+go-cmpl
ina:
women
ma-ka-kade-na,
neg-see-neg-rem.p.vis
mayakani-ya
straight-conf
nha
they
kayu
thus
na-ni-ka,
3pl-do-sub
nu-ka-na
1sg-see-rem.p.vis
‘There (were) only men, they drove women away, women did not see (the
flutes), done in a correct way. I saw them do it’ (visual)
Along similar lines, nonvisual information could be reinforced by verbs like
-hima ‘hear, feel’, or -himeta ‘think, feel (sad, etc)’. The verb -anihta ‘think, be
able to reason’ describes inferences; and a ‘lexical reinforcement’ for reported
is ‘this is what people told me/us’.
. Evidentials, semantic types of verbs and discourse
We have seen that verbs of feeling and wanting require nonvisual evidentials
with first person, and visual or inferred with other persons. The choice of ev-
identials may contribute to a differentiation of lexical meanings of some, pol-
ysemous, verbs. The verb -mañe means ‘get something wrong, forget’ and also
‘tell a lie, cheat’. If used with a visual evidential, it most likely will mean ‘tell a
deliberate lie’ – who would ever get something wrong on purpose? So, when
an evil spirit says (65) to a man (who breached a taboo: he went hunting on a
Good Friday!), he is plainly accusing the man of telling a lie:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.28 (158)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
(65) pi-mañe-ka-naka
2sg-get.wrong,lie-decl-pres.vis
phia
you
nu-na
1sg-obj
‘You are lying to me’ (saying that you did not know today was Good
Friday) (visual)
The verb -himeta means ‘think; say something in one’s mind; feel (sad, scared,
etc)’. When used with nonvisual evidentials and first person it necessarily refers
to ‘feeling’; and when used with visual evidentials, it is normally interpreted as
referring to ‘talking to oneself in one’s mind’, cf. kawalikupeda nuhmeta-mhana
(sorry 1sg+feel,think-rem.p.nonvis) ‘I felt sorry’ and nu-kale-se nuhmeta-na
(1sg-heart-loc 1sg+feel,think-rem.p.vis) ‘I thought, saying to myself’.
The choice of evidential has to do with the genre of a narrative. Visual ev-
identials are used in accounts of one’s own experience. Reported evidentials
are used in folk tales and traditional stories. Generic inferred is used in stories
which relate important mythological events that are known to have left tangi-
ble traces in the surrounding landscape. One such instance is the movements
of the Tariana ancestors within the Vaupés area: their traces are there in the
form of stones, rapids, and caves. (See Ramirez 1997:140, on a similar usage of
evidentials in Tucano.) No full narrative is ever told using just the nonvisual or
the specific inferred.
. The origin of evidentials
Complex evidentiality systems are a salient feature of the East Tucanoan lan-
guages, and of the Vaupés linguistic area as a whole. Tariana is unique among
North Arawak languages in having an elaborate evidentiality system. The Tar-
iana evidentials are strikingly similar to the evidentials in East Tucanoan lan-
guages, especially in Tucano (see Aikhenvald 2002b).
Data from related Arawak languages indicate that, before the intensive lan-
guage contact with the East-Tucanoans, Tariana was likely to have had an op-
tional reported evidentiality specification, marked with the clitic -pida (which
is still used as the only evidential in Baniwa, an Arawak language closely related
to Tariana but spoken outside the Vaupés area).
After Tariana came in contact with East-Tucanoan languages, the existing
optional tense and mood system was reanalyzed as obligatory tense-marking:
the past/perfective -na was reanalyzed as a remote past marker, and the erst-
while declarative -ka as recent past marker. The unmarked form was reanalyzed
as present.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.29 (159)
Evidentiality in Tariana 
The existing reported specification, -pida, came to be reanalyzed as having
unmarked present reference. The newly evolved tense markers were added to it.
The generic inferred arose as the result of reanalysis of a dubitative marker,
-si-ka (used as a marker of doubt and speculation in Piapoco, another Arawak
language closely related to Tariana but spoken outside the Vaupés area in
Colombia).
The nonvisual evidential developed via grammaticalization of a verb of
nonvisual perception, -hima ‘hear, feel, seem, perceive’. The visual specification
remained formally unmarked.
The recent development of specific inferred involves reanalysis of the Tar-
iana anterior marker -nhi (which many younger people pronounce as -ni) in
combination with the visual evidential. This reanalysis is based on an analogy
with a homophonous ‘look-alike’ used in a complex specific inferred construc-
tion in Tucano. Such a construction in Tucano involves a nominalization and
the auxiliary niî ‘do; be’ which takes any visual evidential specification (see
West 1980:75–76; Ramirez 1997:140–141, 291–292), as in (66), the Tucano
version of (5):
(66) Ceci
Cecília
diâyG-re
dog-top.non.a/s
tu’tî-’kG
scold-fem.sg
niî-amo
be-rec.p.vis+3sgf
‘Cecília scolded the dog’ (I infer it on the basis of obvious evidence)
The system of evidentials in Tariana is etymologically heterogenous – dif-
ferent specifications come from different sources. The origin of interrogative
evidentials requires further investigation.
. Evidentials and cultural attitudes
As I stated in the Position paper for the Workshop, the existence of eviden-
tials in a language presupposes a certain requirement for explicitly stating the
source of information, and may go together with certain cultural attitudes and
practices.
Speakers’ metalinguistic discourse in the form of comments on the source
of information demonstrates awareness of evidentials and their psychological
reality. Speakers of Tariana and of Tucano usually comment on how one has to
be precise concerning how one ‘knows’ something in their languages; according
to them, translations into Portuguese come out as vague and ‘reduced’.
The use of evidentials correlates with cultural stereotypes and with con-
ventionalized attitudes to information. Visual evidentials are associated with
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.30 (160)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
‘omniscience’. Shamans and evil spirits have access to supernatural knowledge
and ‘know it all’. They speak using the visual evidential; and the visual eviden-
tial is appropriate while talking about their knowledge. Jovino said (67) about
the Wanano shaman, Jesús.
(67) thui
all
mava
well
di-ka-na
3sgnf-see-rem.p.vis
‘He (the shaman) sees everything well’ (visual)
Facts which appear in shamanic visions – believed to be the most reliable source
of information – are told using the visual evidential, as in the following exam-
ple which relates a dream of a shaman who ‘knows it all’ with his power. In
this case, visual evidential is used to describe the actions of an evil spirit which
cannot be ‘seen’ otherwise’ (see below).
(68) ne
then
ta:pulí-se
dream-loc
di-ká-pidana-sita
3sgnf-see-rem.p.rep-pfv
wa-hwe-ni-ne
1pl-grandparent-masc-foc.a/s
ikasu-nuku
now-top.non.a/s
masi-pu-naka
bad-aug-pres.vis
diha,
he
paita
one+num.cl:anim
nawiki
person
di-na-naka
3sgnf-obj-pres.vis
dhita-niki
3sgnf+take-cmpl
diha
he
‘Then he (the shaman) saw (reported: the evidential of the whole story)
in his dream (which he told his wife): “Our grandfather is in a bad way
right now (visual), a man is taking him away (visual).” ’
In contrast, dreams by ordinary people are told using nonvisual evidential:
(69) nu-we-do-nuku
1sg-younger.sibling-fem-top.non.a/s
Lurde-nuku
Lurdes-top.non.a/s
tapulisa-mahka
dream-rec.p.nonvis
nhua
I
‘I have dreamt about my younger sister, about Lurdes’ (nonvisual)
Supernatural actions of evil spirits are described using ‘nonvisual’ evidentials –
as in (70), from a story about what had happened in the jungle. The nonvisual
remote past tense is used to refer to what the evil spirit had done to the two
speakers (he nearly killed them); the visual remote past refers to what they did.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.31 (161)
Evidentiality in Tariana 
(70) amaku-pe
hammock-pl
wa-tutu
1pl-tie
wema-na
1pl+sleep/close.eye-rem.p.vis
wa-na
1pl-obj
kayu-mhana
thus-rem.p.nonvis
di-ni
3sgnf-do
ñamu
evil.spirit
‘We tied our hammocks and went to sleep (visual), this was what the evil
spirit had done to us’ (nonvisual)
New insights on evidentials could be obtained from the ways in which eviden-
tials are used to describe newly emerging cultural practices. One such prac-
tice is reading. Literate Tariana speakers tend to use inferred – rather than re-
ported evidential – when retelling stories they have just read, when translating
Catholic prayers, or acting as Bible translators during church services. This is
because the proof of the validity of the information can be seen as printed
in the book.
We can recall that the reported evidential may have a connotation of ‘un-
reliability’ of information; this may explain why inferred is preferred in trans-
lations. However, in written translations of sacred texts – such as the Sunday
service – descriptions such as ‘Jesus Christ is among us’ or ‘Jesus Christ is good’
are cast in visual. I did not dare ask questions about this: it is quite possible that
statements of this sort are taken to be generally true facts (since all the Tariana,
at least on the surface, are devout Catholics). But I suspect that there could be
a certain influence of the tradition of translating Catholic texts into Tucano us-
ing visual evidentials – the Tariana who insisted that the prayers be translated
into the Tariana language had access to the Tucano translation.
I have been able to observe Tariana speakers talking about what they had
seen on television – they considered it equivalent to real seeing and believed
everything they saw, and so the visual evidential was used. When a few speak-
ers had talked on the phone (in Portuguese, refusing to use either Tariana or
Tucano in this context) they described what they heard with nonvisual.
This precision of the source of one’s statement goes together with a ten-
dency to avoid assumptions about evidence that other people might have.
Evidentials in Tariana do have a number of epistemic extensions – this also
makes interpreting other people’s sources of information more complex. This
may (at least partly) explain the cultural inappropriateness of asking questions
(see §4.1).
The Tariana use yet another strategy to avoid interpreting other people’s
sources of information. When reporting what someone else had said, the pre-
ferred strategy is a direct speech complement. This means that the speaker can
avoid making a choice of an evidential for another person and run the risk of
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.32 (162)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
undesired implications as to ‘validation’ of the other person’s evidence. Thus,
instead of saying, ‘he is coming-reported’, the speaker would prefer saying ‘he
said: I am coming-visual’.
Such attitude to information may be related to the fact that in Amazonian
society it is held that there is an explicit cause (most often, sorcery) for ev-
erything that happens. So as not to be blamed for something that in fact they
had no responsibility for, a speaker is careful always to be as explicit as pos-
sible about what they have done. This relates to the desirability of stating the
evidence for everything that is said, visually obtained information being the
most valuable.
An additional observation concerns emergent marking of evidence in Por-
tuguese – the contact language in the Vaupés.
The majority of the Tariana speak Portuguese (only a very few old peo-
ple claim that they don’t). Portuguese has no evidentiality. But the speakers of
Vaupés Portuguese ‘make up’ for this obvious gap by using an array of lexical
strategies for different evidentiality specifications. Statements referring to in-
formation obtained visually is usually accompanied by a phrase eu vi ‘I saw’.
The expression eu tenho prova ‘I have proof’; or, more rarely, eu tenho exper-
iência (‘I have experience’) can be used to ‘replace’ visual or specific inferred.
Information obtained by hearing or by other sensory experience can be accom-
panied by eu escutei ‘I heard’ or eu senti ‘I felt’. The way of marking inferred
information is by saying parece ‘it appears, it seems’. And diz que ‘it is said that’
is a conventional way of marking reported information.
The use of these expressions makes Vaupés Portuguese sound somewhat
obsequious and hedging; and is often judged as weird by monolingual Brazil-
ians from other areas. In Tariana, inferred evidentiality is used in translations
and in rendering of what one has just read. But it does sound bizarre to na-
tive speakers of Standard Portuguese when an Indian who has just read an
announcement about a football match in the Mission centre says: ‘There is
a football match on, it appears’.
The phenomenon of transference of evidentiality-type distinctions from
one language to another has been documented. In the English spoken by the
Yavapai and Paiute, ‘they say’ is effectively used to cover non-firsthand eviden-
tiality specifications obligatory in the two languages (Bunte & Kendall 1981).
In the Portuguese of the Vaupés area, diz que ‘it is said’ can also be extended
to cover all non-firsthand evidentiality specifications. Thus, an Indian who has
read an announcement, may just as well talk about it using diz que (which
sounds equally bizarre for speakers of Standard Portuguese; since for them this
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.33 (163)
Evidentiality in Tariana 
conveys a tinge of incredulity). Thus, the evidentials have made their way even
into the contact language – albeit in a roundabout fashion.
We conclude that Tariana combines a number of evidentiality subsystems –
C1 or D1 in affirmative clauses; B2 in interrogative clauses and also in appre-
hensives (albeit with unrelated marking), A3 in imperative, and A1 in purpo-
sive. Is this the largest possible number of evidential subsystems a language
can have?
Notes
. Tariana is currently spoken by about 100 people in two villages, Santa Rosa (also known
as Juquira-ponta, lit. ‘Point of Salt’) and Periquitos, on the upper Vaupés. Language loss is
more advanced in Santa Rosa. The two dialects are mutually intelligible (the difference is
comparable to that between British English and American English; or Portuguese as spoken
in Portugal and as spoken in Brazil). I have been working on Tariana since 1991, with over
90% of the speakers of Santa Rosa dialect, and with 70% of those from Periquitos. My cor-
pus contains over 200 stories (about 1500 pages), and also conversations and wordlists. A
detailed grammatical description is Aikhenvald (in press); Aikhenvald (2002a) is a dictio-
nary. The fieldwork on which this paper was based was financed by a Wenner Gren Foun-
dation Small Grants project. I owe a considerable debt to all my teachers of the Tariana
language: the Brito family of Santa Rosa and the Muniz family of Periquitos. Special thanks
go to R.M.W. Dixon, David Beck and all the participants of the Workshop on Evidentiality
for insightful comments, and to Elias and Lenita Coelho de Assis for invaluable support in
the fieldwork situation. I am grateful to Anya Woods for editorial assistance.
. A detailed study of the Vaupés linguistic area and patterns of areal diffusion there can be
found in Aikhenvald (2002b); also see Aikhenvald (1996; 1999a, b).
. Older people rarely use this construction. The anterior marker -nhi and the specific
inferred evidentials can cooccur, in younger people’s speech.
. The other imperatives are: simple (unmarked) -Ø; proximate (‘do here’) -si; distal (‘do
there’) -kada; postponed (‘do some time later’) -wa; detrimental (‘do to your own detri-
ment’) -tupe; conative precative (‘please try and do’) -thana; cohortative (‘let’s do’) -da; and
polite suggestion (‘please do’) -nha.
. Like most evidential specifications, the secondhand imperative is a calque from Tucano.
However, unlike Tariana, the Tucano secondhand imperative marker -ato has no connection
with any of the evidentiality-tense paradigms (cf. Ramirez 1997:146), while the secondhand
imperative marker -pida in Tariana is found throughout the reported evidential paradigm.
I return to this in §8.
. This is also true of the equivalent of the Tariana ‘generic inferred’ in Tucano.
. Following a phonological rule (similar to Grassmann’s law), the sequence of enclitics -tha
+ -mha becomes -thama.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:21 F: TSL5406.tex / p.34 (164)
 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
References
Aikhenvald, A. Y. (1996). Areal diffusion in North-West Amazonia: the case of Tariana.
Anthropological Linguistics, 38, 73–116.
—— (1999a). The Arawak language family. In R. M. W. Dixon & A. Y. Aikhenvald (Eds.),
The Amazonian languages (pp. 65–105). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (1999b). Areal diffusion and language contact in the Içana-Vaupés basin, North West
Amazonia. In R. M. W. Dixon & A. Y. Aikhenvald (Eds.), The Amazonian languages (pp.
385–415). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (2001). Language awareness and correct speech among the Tariana of northwest
Amazonia. Anthropological Linguistics, 43, 411–430.
—— (2002a). Dicionário Tariana-Português e Português-Tariana. Buletim do Museu Paraense
Emílio Goeldi, 17(1) (Special issue).
—— (2002b). Language contact in Amazonia. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
—— (in press). The Tariana language of northwest Amazonia. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Barnes, J. (1984). Evidentials in the Tuyuca verb. International Journal of American
Linguistics, 50, 255–271.
—— (1999). Tucano. In R. M. W. Dixon & A. Y. Aikhenvald (Eds.), The Amazonian
languages (pp. 207–226). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bunte, P. A., & Kendall, M. B. (1981). When is an error not an error? Notes on language
contact and the question of interference. Anthropological Linguistics, 23, 1–7.
Gruzdeva, E. Yu. (1992). Poveliteljnye predlozhenija v nivkhskom jazyke (Imperative
sentences in Nivkh). In V. S. Xrakovsky (Ed.), Tipologija imperativnyh konstrukcij (The
typology of imperative constructions). (pp. 55–63). Sankt-Peterburg: Nauka.
Malone, T. (1988). The origin and development of Tuyuca evidentials. International Journal
of American Linguistics, 54, 119–140.
Miller, M. (1999). Desano grammar. (Studies in the Languages of Colombia 6.) Arlington:
Summer Institute of Linguistics and the University of Texas at Arlington.
Ramirez, H. (1997). A fala Tukano dos Yepâ-masa. Tomo I. Gramática. [The Tucano language
of Yepâ-masa. Volume 1. Grammar.] Manaus: Inspetoria Salesiana.
Tsitsipis, L. D. (1998). A linguistic anthropology of praxis and language shift. Arvanítika
(Albanian) and Greek in Contact. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
West, B. (1980). Gramática popular del Tucano. [A popular grammar of Tucano.] Santafé de
Bogotá: Instituto Lingüístico de Verano.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.1 (165)
Chapter 7
Evidentiality in Jarawara*
R. M. W. Dixon
Evidentiality is marked at three different places within the predicate in Jara-
wara: (i) a distinction between ‘eyewitness’ and ‘non-eyewitness’ is fused with
the three past tenses; (ii) there is a ‘reported’ suffix; and (iii) there is a secondary
verb (a kind of auxiliary) with the meaning ‘it seems, it appears’ or ‘I think, I
guess’. The non-eyewitness immediate past suffix also has a mirative sense.
The three types of evidential marking are dealt with one at a time, with
discussion of their meanings, origin (where known), and interrelations both
with each other and with other grammatical categories. But we first need to
present some basic information about the language and its grammatical profile.
. Introduction
The small Arawá family of southern Amazonia (quite distinct from Arawak)
consists of five extant languages – Dení, Kulina, Sorowahá, Paumarí and Madi
(see Dixon 1999). The Madi language consists of three closely related dialects:
Jamamadí (with about 190 speakers), Banawá (about 80 speakers) and Jarawara
(about 150 speakers, spread over eight jungle villages). The description of
Jarawara given here is based on materials gathered in the course of six field
trips, during 1991–1999.
This is a highly synthetic language, basically agglutinative but with de-
veloping fusion (particularly in the gender-marking forms of inalienably pos-
sessed nouns – see Dixon 1995).
Jarawara is head-marking, with the predicate including obligatory pro-
nouns for S in an intransitive and for A and O in a transitive clause (3sg is
always marked by zero). The only obligatory element in a clause is the pred-
icate. It may optionally be preceded by core NPs marking the S argument (in
an intransitive clause) and the A and/or O arguments (in a transitive clause);
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.2 (166)
 R. M. W. Dixon
note that A and O NPs do not occur in a fixed order. Peripheral NPs and sub-
ordinate clauses are placed on the fringe of a clause, either at the beginning or
at the end.
Each free noun is either masculine (m) or feminine (f). Feminine is the
functionally unmarked term in this gender system; for example, all non-zero
pronouns are cross-referenced by f, irrespective of the sex of their referent(s).
Pronouns distinguish 1st, 2nd and 3rd person; singular (sg) and non-singular
(nsg) number; and inclusive (incl) versus exclusive (excl) within 1nsg. There is
no gender marking on pronouns.
Verbs are classified according to two independent parameters – transitivity,
and whether they are inflecting or non-inflecting. Slightly more than one-third
of verbs are inflecting, and take their own prefixes and suffixes. The remainder
are non-inflecting, and must be followed by an auxiliary (-na- for the majority
of non-inflecting verbs, -ha- for just a few) to which prefixes and suffixes are
added. Compare:
(1) o-fimi-ara
1sgS-be.hungry-Ipef
(2) toho
cough
o-na-hara
1sgS-aux-ipef
‘I was hungry’ ‘I coughed’
In (1) 1sg prefix o- and immediate past eyewitness feminine suffix -hara attach
to the inflecting verb root, -fimi- (the -h- of -hara drops by application of a
phonological rule), whereas in (2) they attach to the auxiliary -na- of the non-
inflecting verb toho.
The auxiliary -na- is omitted from the auxiliary constituent when cer-
tain combinations of suffix and prefix occur (details are in Dixon 2002). This
happens in examples (5a), (20b) and (47) below.
. Predicate structure
The predicate is the most complex part of the grammar of Jarawara. We can
recognise 11 types of elements. They are shown, in order, in Table 1. Note that
all the pronouns in slot A are separate words, as are the nsg pronouns in slots
B and H, and the secondary verbs in slot I. The forms in slot C are prefixes and
those in slots F, G, J and K are suffixes. The verb thus has six possible prefixes,
in three positions, and at least 80 suffixes, organised into about 24 positions.
Note that all suffixes are optional.
Most suffixes and one of the secondary verbs have distinct f and m forms.
These agree in gender with S in an intransitive clause and with either A or O in
a transitive clause (details of the rather complex rules determining this choice
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.3 (167)
Evidentiality in Jarawara 
Table 1. Predicate structure
A First pronominal slot; obligatory in all transitive clauses – marks O;
B Second pronominal slot; obligatory – marks S or A;
C Prefixes:
C1 First prefix position: one of 1sg S/A o-, 2sg S/A ti- (both transferred from slot B);
marker of transitive clause type called O-construction, hi-; or to- ‘away’;
C2 Second prefix position: applicative ka-;
C3 Third prefix position: causative na- (on verb), niha- (on auxiliary);
D Verb root, inflecting or non-inflecting (predicate head) – obligatory;
E Auxiliary – obligatory if verb is non-inflecting;
F Miscellaneous suffixes: about 55 organised into six echelons (with one to five ordered
positions within each echelon), e.g. ‘upriver’, ‘do all night’, ‘also’, negator – all optional;
G Tense-modal suffixes: three past tenses (immediate past (IP), recent past (RP), and
far past (FP), each portmanteau with an evidentiality specification, eyewitness (e) or
non-eyewitness (n)); and five modalities (future, intentional, hypothetical, irrealis, re-
ported) – all optional (either one or two can be shown);
H Third pronominal slot, repeating information about S in an intransitive, and about A or
O in a transitive clause; filled according to certain rules (see Dixon 2000);
I Secondary verb: ama/ama ‘extended in time’ or awine/awa ‘seems, I think’ – optional;
J Mood: declarative (-ke/-ka), backgrounding, four imperatives, two interrogatives, etc. –
optional;
K Post-mood suffixes: a number of tense-modal forms (from slot G) and negation (from
slot F) can follow mood, under particular circumstances.
are in Dixon 2000). Suffixes are quoted with f form first, then /, then m form;
for example, immediate past eyewitness is -hara/-hare, showing the allomorphs
-hara for f and -hare for m agreement.
The slots that concern us in a study of evidentiality are G, with tense-modal
suffixes (discussed in §2 and §3), and I, with secondary verbs (discussed in §4).
. Eyewitness/non-eyewitness fused with past tenses
Slot G (the tense-modal suffixes) includes six terms which combine informa-
tion about past tense and about evidentiality; these are shown in Table 2. Im-
mediate past (IP) is used to describe something which happened between a
few seconds and a few months ago, recent past (RP) covers the time from a few
months to a few years ago, while far past (FP) extends from a few years ago
back to the creation of the world. Note that the initial -hV- part of each tense-
modal suffix is omitted under certain conditions by phonological rules (or just
the initial -h- may be, as in (1)).
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.4 (168)
 R. M. W. Dixon
Table 2. Forms of past-tense/evidentiality suffixes
feminine (f) masculine (m)
immediate past eyewitness (IPe) -(ha)ra -(ha)re
recent past eyewitness (RPe) -(ha)ro -(hi)ri
far past eyewitness (FPe) -(ha)maro -(hi)mari
immediate past non-eyewitness (IPn) -(ha)ni -(hi)no
recent past non-eyewitness (RPn) -(he)te -(hi)ta
far past non-eyewitness (FPn) -(he)mete -(hi)mata
. Meanings
The meanings of the eyewitness (e) and non-eyewitness (n) evidentiality val-
ues are fairly clear. Anything that the speaker witnessed (in real life or in a
dream) will be described by e; otherwise n must be used. The most commonly
used suffixes are FPn, RPe and IPe. Traditional stories which have been handed
down by word of mouth are always in FPn; and, generally, things located in the
far past are less likely to have been witnessed than more recent events – as a
consequence, there are many less FPe than FPn in the corpus collected. More
recent events that are talked about have most often been witnessed – we find
about twice as many instances of IPe as of IPn and far more RPe than RPn.
A typical conversation went as follows:
(3) a. jomeeA
dog(m)
tiwa
2sgO
na-tafi-no
caus-wake-ipnm
awa?
seemm
‘Does it appear that the dog wakened you?’
b. owa
1sgO
na-tafi-are-ka
caus-wake-ipem-declm
‘It did waken me.’
In the question ‘Did the dog waken you?’, non-eyewitness tense is used since
the interlocutor did not himself hear or see the dog, but was just told about it.
The reply uses an eyewitness tense since the speaker did hear (or see) the dog.
Compare this with (4) where a sleeper was not wakened by the noise of singing
and so uses a non-eyewitness tense:
(4) [mee
3nsg
jowiri
sing
ni]O
aux+compl.cl
o-mita-ra-hani
1sgA-hear-negative-ipnf
o-ke
1sg-declf
‘I didn’t hear their jowiri-style singing (in the night, when I was asleep).’
Note that the O argument of (4) is a complement clause (shown in square
brackets) ‘their jowiri singing’.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.5 (169)
Evidentiality in Jarawara 
Interestingly, going to sleep takes n evidentiality, as in (5a), while waking
up takes the e value, as in (5b) and in the causative in (3b). Note that (5a) and
(5b) are consecutive clauses in a text.
(5) a. amo
sleep
o-waha-ni
1sgS-next.thing-ipnf
o-ke
1sg-declf
waha
next.thing
‘The next thing was I fell asleep.’
b. manakobisa
later
[jamaS
thing(f)
siri-maki
be.cold-following+nominalisation
jaa]
at
o-tafi-ara
1sgS-wake-ipef
o-ke
1sg-declf
‘Later, when it was cold (in the middle of the night) I woke up.’
Within a single sentence there can be one clause in n and another in e eviden-
tiality. For example:
(6) WeroS
name(m)
kisa-me-no,
get.down-back-ipnm
ka-me-hiri-ka
be.in.motion-back-rpem-declm
‘Wero got down from his hammock (which I didn’t see), and went out
(which I did see).’
Wero had been asleep. He must have descended from his hammock (the nar-
rator infers that this happened, although he did not see it) and then went out
of the house (which the narrator did observe). The coupling of IPn with RPe is
explained in §2.4.
A further example of n and e evidentiality within a single sentence is:
(7) katosoS
cartridges(f)
ka-foja-ni, ...
applic-be.inside-ipnf
o-wa-kiti
1sgA-applic-take.out
o-na-hara
1sg-list-ipef
o-ke
1sg-declf
‘The cartridges were inside (the bag), I took them out.’
The narrator thought that the cartridges were inside the bag but he could not
see them there and so used IPn in the first clause. The second clause, which
describes him taking them out of the bag, utilises IPe.
One story describes the drunken captain of a boat taking a wrong turn
and getting lost. The narrator dissociates himself from responsibility for this
happening by using n evidentiality:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.6 (170)
 R. M. W. Dixon
(8) jaraA
white.man(m)
otara
1nsg.exclO
to-kana-ke-hita
away-take.off.course-coming-rpnm
ama-ka
extent-declm
‘The white man took us off course.’
One way of describing catching a bad cold is to say that it ‘found’ you. But n
evidentiality is then always employed:
(9) itoA
bad.cold(f)
owa
1sgO
wasi-hani-ke
find-ipnf-declf
‘A bad cold found me (i.e. I got a bad cold).’
One can contrast e and n evidentiality values with the same verb. Consider the
following elicited sentences involving the verb -hano- ‘be drunk’:
(10) a. o-hano-hara
1sgS-be.drunk-ipef
o-ke
1sg-declf
‘I got drunk (deliberately).’
b. o-hano-hani
1sgS-be.drunk-ipnf
o-ke
1sg-declf
‘I got drunk (and don’t recall it).’
The e specification in (10a) implies that the speaker knew what he was doing
when he got drunk. In contrast, (10b), with n evidentiality, could be spoken by
someone who woke up drunk (or with a hangover) and didn’t remember what
he had done the previous night.
One revealing passage from a narrative text provides a contrast between the
use of eyewitness and non-eyewitness tenses. The narrator has been waiting on
the riverbank for a motor boat belonging to a Catholic priest. Finally, he hears
the noise of a boat and says, in the narrative:
(11) a. [moto
motorboat(m)
ati]S
noise
ka-tima-re-ka
be.in.motion-upstream-ipem-declm
‘The noise of the motorboat was coming upstream (the noise could
be heard).’
b. [moto
motorboat(m)
ati]S
noise
ka-time
be.in.motion-upstream+m
‘The noise of the motorboat comes upstream.’
c. motoS
motorboat(m)
ka-time-no
be.in.motion-upstream-ipnm
‘The motorboat was coming upstream (although it could not yet be
seen).’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.7 (171)
Evidentiality in Jarawara 
Clause (a) describes the noise of the boat coming upstream and uses e evi-
dentiality since the noise of the boat’s motor could be heard. Clause (b) then
repeats the same information without tense/evidentiality or mood. Clause (c)
has the boat itself (not the noise of the boat) in S function and there n eviden-
tiality is used. The boat itself cannot be seen and so the n value is the one to
use in (c).
It will be seen that the evidentiality value I refer to as ‘eyewitness’ covers not
only happenings that the speaker witnesses with the eyes but also something
that is heard. However, this ‘earwitness’ sense is restricted to where there is an
NP which explicitly refers to a noise. In (11c) the S NP is ‘boat’ and the speaker
could not see the boat (although he could hear it) so that a non-eyewitness
tense is used. In (11a) the O NP is ‘noise of a boat’; he can hear that, and thus
employs an ‘eyewitness’ tense. It appears, however, that speakers have some
discretion concerning which evidential to choose in borderline cases. Clause
(b) in (3) uses an e evidential where the A NP refers just to jomee ‘dog’, stated
in the previous clause, (3a) (and not specifically to the noise of the dog – it was
the dog’s barking that woke the speaker).
There are also instances of the ‘eyewitness’ choice being used to refer
to something that is smelled, when the appropriate NP includes the noun
mahi/maho ‘smell’. Thus, in one story:
(12) a. [jao
sloth(m)
abohi]S
be.dead+compl.cl
home-hino
lie-ipnm
‘A dead sloth lay (there) (lit. the sloth’s being dead was lying).’
b. [jao
sloth(m)
bete
rottenness
maho]S
smell+m
kita-hare-ka
be.strong-ipem-declm
‘The smell of the rotten sloth was strong (lit. the sloth’s rottenness’
smell was strong).’
In (12b) the NP in S function has jao ‘sloth’ as its head, modified by two in-
alienably possessed nouns, bete ‘rottenness’ and maho ‘smell’. The verb -kita-
‘be strong’ takes the eyewitness IP tense suffix, showing that the eyewitness
choice is appropriate when reference is to smell (this being shown by the inclu-
sion of mahi/maho in the NP). (In (12a) the non-eyewitness IP suffix is used in
its mirative sense, to show surprise at encountering a dead sloth; see §2.2.)
. Special meaning and function of immediate past noneyewitness (IPn)
Delancey (1997), in a seminal study, notes that in some evidentiality systems
one term may also be used to mark a category he calls ‘mirative’, to draw atten-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.8 (172)
 R. M. W. Dixon
tion to some information being ‘new or surprising’. In Chapter 1 of this volume,
Aikhenvald mentions that, in a two-term system, it is the non-eyewitness term
which typically also has mirative meaning. Within Jarawara the IPn suffix has
a mirative use – it can be employed to indicate that an event or state is sur-
prising to the subject. In this sense IPn is used irrespective of time reference or
visibility.
On one occasion, a man had not realised how late it was. Suddenly, dusk
was upon him and he said:
(13) bahiS
sun(m)
to-ke-hino
away-be.in.motion-ipnm
‘The sun is (surprisingly to me) going away (i.e. setting).’
The text from which (13) is taken was told in FPn; the occurrence of IPn shows
that this clause has a mirative meaning. Sentence (14) comes from a personal
reminiscence told in FPe. The narrator and some companions had gone up a
strange river and come across a patch of forest teeming with game animals. This
is described by a clause with IPn marking to indicate the narrator’s surprise.
(14) baniS
animal(m)
mee
3nsg
wina-tee-hani
live-hab-ipnf
‘There are surprisingly many animals living (here).’
One day the village chief, Okomobi, thought he was being given a cup of
cachaça (a potent cane whisky). When he raised the cup to his lips he discov-
ered that it was just water. The surprise he experienced was coded by using IPn
in describing this event:
(15) OkomobiA
name(m)
fahaO
water(f)
hi-fa-hani
Oc-drink-ipnf
ama-ke
extent-declf
‘Okomobi (to his surprise) drank water.’
Another example of the mirative use of IPn is in (12a) where the narrator was
surprised to see a dead sloth. Here the marking of surprise (which requires
IPn) takes preference over the fact that the narrator saw it (which would be
marked by IPe).
Turning now to another use of IPn, it was shown in Table 1 that while
tense-modal suffixes typically occur in slot G, before mood (which is in slot
J), some of them may alternatively be placed after mood, in slot K. This al-
ternative ordering of suffixes carries a special meaning. Only one of the six
past-tense/evidentiality suffixes may occur after declarative mood, this is IPn.
The sequence declarative-plus-IPn may indicate uncertainty about the event
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.9 (173)
Evidentiality in Jarawara 
or state described by the clause. Thus, in a story where two Jarawara men were
waiting for the Padre’s boat to pick them up and take them to a meeting, when
they did not know whether the boat had already been and gone, we get:
(16) otaa
1nsg.excl.S
to-ka-tima-habone,
away-be.in.motion-upstream-intention.f
motoA
boat(m)
otara
1nsg.exclO
ka-kosa-ka-no
applic-leave-declm-ipnm
‘We need to go upstream, the boat might have already come and left us
(here).’
Then a boat was seen coming up the river. But they did not know if it was the
boat that was to take them. The narrator commented:
(17) [Batiri
Padre
mee
3nsg
kaa
poss
moto]S
boat(m)
ama-ka-no
cop-declm-ipnm
haari
there+depm
‘It was unclear whether it was the boat belonging to the Padre’s people
there.’
Each of these sentences carries an overtone of uncertainty, which is shown by
placing the IPn suffix -(hi)no, after declarative, -ka. Compare these with (31),
which shows the more normal order of tense followed by declarative mood.
Another meaning that can be attached to declarative-plus-IPn is ‘just now’,
as in:
(18) hinakitiS
3sgposs+grandfather(m)
ahaba-ka-no
die-declm-ipnm
‘His grandfather just died.’
The full set of six past-tense/evidentiality suffixes is available for main clauses
and relative clauses. Complement clauses (filling subject or object slot in a main
clause) may not include any tense-modal marker. In the most common type of
dependent clause, there can be a tense-modal specification, but only one past-
tense/evidentiality suffix is found, IPn. It appears that, in this context, the three
past tenses and two evidentiality values are neutralised, with the whole system
being representedby the IPn suffix. In (19), the main clause, (a), is marked with
FPn tense (in m form), -himata, plus reported suffix (also in m form) -mona.
The dependent clause in (b) simply bears IPn marking (also in m form).
(19) a. hi-we-himata-mona-ka, b. ka-maki-no-ho
Oc-see-fpnm-repm-declm be.in.motion-following-ipnm-dep
‘[She] saw him, as he was following (along the road).’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.10 (174)
 R. M. W. Dixon
Whichever of the six past-tense/evidentiality choices is used in the main clause,
a dependent clause will always use the IPn suffix.
Slot G also includes five modal suffixes: future, intentional, hypothetical,
irrealis and reported. Now generally only one term can be used from this slot,
but there are some instances of a sequence of two terms. The combinations of
FPn and RPn plus reported are discussed in §3. We also find some occurrences
of irrealis followed by FPn and FPe. And there are a fair number of instances
of future followed by IPn (typically in a dependent clause). This appears to be
another instance of the six past-tense/evidentiality choices being neutralised
and realised as IPn.
Future plus IPn in a dependent clause indicates that the event of the de-
pendent clause followed that of the main clause, both taking place in past time
(if IPn were used without future in the dependent clause, this would indicate
that the dependent clause refers to the same or an earlier time in the past as the
main clause). In (20) the main clause, (a), is marked with FPn -hemete-, plus
reported -mone (both in f form), and the dependent clause, (b), is marked with
future plus the neutralised IPn suffix (again both in f form).
(20) a. okitiA
1sgposs+grandfather
mee
3nsgO
hi-ka-hati-hemete-mone
Oc-applic-cast.spell-fpnf-repf
mee
3nsg
ama-ke,
extent-declf
‘My grandfather is said to have cast a spell over them [the fish in the
river],’
b. mee
3nsgS
fawa
disappear
tee-haba-ni
hab-fut.f-ipnf
mati
dep+3nsg
‘(and then) they disappeared.’
Content questions include a content question word (‘who’, ‘what’, etc.) and
generally also the content question suffix, -ri/-ra, in the mood slot (J from Ta-
ble 1). This suffix is generally word-final, but it can be followed by either the
future suffix or by IPn, as in:
(21) Safato!,
name
hika
where
kosiO
urucuri(m)
ti-jaba-ri-ni?
2sgA-pick-C.Intf-ipnf
‘Safato!, where did you pick the urucuri (fruit)?’
It is likely that an instance of IPn following the content question suffix is again
a neutralisation of the past-tense/evidentiality system.
It will be seen that IPn has a special status within the past-tense/evidentiality
system. It alone has a mirative sense; it is the only tense term to follow declar-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.11 (175)
Evidentiality in Jarawara 
ative mood; and it functions as neutralisation of the three past tenses and two
evidentiality values both in dependent clauses (either alone, or following the
future suffix) and in content questions. It could be said to be the functionally
unmarked term in the system.
. Occurrence and correlations
The full set of six past-tense/evidentiality markers is used in main clauses and
in relative clauses. A single term (IPn), representing the whole system, is used
in dependent clauses and in content questions. There is no tense/evidentiality
marking in complement clauses, nor in imperatives. Polar questions refer-
ring to the future may take future marking, otherwise a polar question gen-
erally lacks a tense-modal suffix. However, a polar question can include one or
more choices from the tense-modal slot, covering both evidentiality values. All
tense/evidentiality suffixes can occur in both positive and negative clauses; for
instance, see (4).
In contrast to the rich morphology of verbs, nouns in Jarawara have a
rather simple structure. There are no exclusively nominal suffixes. However
a noun (or a NP) may employ a selection of the suffixes which are primarily
used with verbs. Of the six past-tense/evidentiality suffixes, four are attested
with nominals. Those missing are RPn, which is rather rare on verbs, and IPe,
which is common on verbs but – as will be discussed in §2.4 – appears to be
a recent addition to the verbal system and has not yet extended its use also to
occur with nouns.
When we look at the correlation of person with evidentiality value, the re-
sults are pretty much as expected. All persons may occur as subject of a verb
with e evidentiality, whereas the great majority of verbs with n evidentiality
have a 3rd person subject. There are, however, some exceptions. Example (5a)
has first person subject with the verb ‘sleep’, taking n evidentiality since – as
mentioned above – one is not aware of oneself going to sleep. And (10b) has
first person subject with ‘be drunk’ in n evidentiality when the speaker doesn’t
recall getting drunk. Similarly, in (22), n is used with the 1st non-singular ex-
clusive pronoun and the verb ‘get lost’, since one does not see or realise that one
is getting lost. As pointed out in Chapter 1 of this volume, n may well be used
here as an indicator of lack of control, or of diminished responsibility.
(22) otaa
1nsg.excl.S
to-sawari-hani
away-get.lost-ipnf
‘We got lost.’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.12 (176)
 R. M. W. Dixon
Another example of first person subject with n evidentiality is in (23), which
also includes the irrealis suffix.
(23) [kowani
other.side
jaa]
ON
otaa
1nsg.excl.S
wine-hene-mete
live-irrf-fpnf
otaa
1nsg.excl
ama-ke
extent-declf
‘We (i.e. our ancestors) could have lived on the other side (of the Purús
River) but didn’t.’
On the lexemic level, verbs such as ‘see’, ‘hear’ and ‘know’ will generally take e
evidentiality. Exceptions include when the clause involves a negator, as in (4) ‘I
didn’t hear their jowiri singing’, with n evidentiality.
. Origin
Rather little can be said about the origin of the past-tense/evidentiality suffixes
in the Jarawara dialect of Madi. It is interesting that the other dialects of the
language – Jamamadí and Banawá – have only five of the six terms, lacking IPe.
It appears that Jamamadí and Banawá use what is the RPe suffix in Jarawara to
cover both immediate past and recent past in the e evidential, i.e.:
(24)
-(ha)ro/-(hi)ri
(current RPe
form in Jarawara)
NON-EYEWITNESS
EYEWITNESS
IPn -(ha)ni/-(hi)no
RPn -(he)te/-(hi)ta
It is likely that this applied in Jarawara at an earlier stage. Then the IPe suf-
fixes, -(ha)ra/-(ha)re, were innovated (I do not know from where), to create a
symmetrical system.
It interesting to study the correspondences between the three e and the
three n terms in present-day Jarawara:
(25) EYEWITNESS
IPe
RPe
FPe
NON-EYEWITNESS
time
from
present
IPn
RPn
FPn
That is, a text which has FPe as the e tense will always have FPn as the n cor-
respondent, and vice versa. Similarly, IPe is always paired with IPn, and RPn
(which is rather rare) is always paired with RPe. But IPn can co-occur either
with IPe or with RPe – as it does in (6) – and, as a consequence, RPe can
co-occur either with RPn or with IPn. These pairings are explainable if the
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.13 (177)
Evidentiality in Jarawara 
original system was as in (24). RPe was originally the correspondent of IPn.
When IPe was introduced, it became paired with IPn, but links between RPe
and IPn – from the stage shown in (24) – still remain. (Further justification for
this historical scenario is in Dixon 2001.)
. The reported suffix
Besides the six past-tense/evidentiality suffixes, slot G also includes five modal
suffixes, set out in Table 3.
Table 3. Forms of modal suffixes
feminine (f) masculine (m)
Intention -(ha)bone -(hi)bona
Future -(ha)ba(na) -(hi)ba(na)
Irrealis -(he)ne -(hi)na
Hypothetical -(he)mene -(hi)mana
Reported (rep) -(ha)mone -(hi)mona
The modal term which concerns us here is reported. This suffix is included
in the tense-modal system (a) because of its position in predicate structure,
and (b) because it has a similar form to other terms in the system, with initial
-ha-/-hi-, final e/a, etc., i.e. -(ha)mone/-(hi)mona.
. Meaning and occurrence
The reported suffix is used to emphasise that what the speaker is relating has
been reported by someone else.
One day I was told that a Jarawara man called Kamo had killed a tapir in a
distant location. I asked Kamo’s father-in-law about this and he responded:1
(26) KamoA
name(m)
awiO
tapir(m)
naboe-himonaha
kill-repm
[Faha.biri
place
jaa]
at
‘Kamo is reported to have killed a tapir at Fahabiri.’
That is, the father-in-law had not witnessed the event, and included the re-
ported suffix to indicate this.
Other examples of the reported suffix include:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.14 (178)
 R. M. W. Dixon
(27) TafiS
name(m)
ati
speak
ne-mona
aux-repm
‘Someone said that Tafi spoke (calling us to eat) (lit. it is reported that Tafi
spoke).’
(28) [mee
3nsg
one
other+f
ihi]
due .to.f
iti-hamone
kill-repf
mee
3nsg+dep
‘The killing was reportedly due to others of them.’
Clauses with the reported suffix are often followed by a clause with the verb
‘say’, as in:
(29) IzakiA
name(m)
NanatobotoO
name(m)
mera
3nsgO
kejehe-mona,
trick-repm
TiokoS
name(m)
hi-na-hare-ka
Oc-aux(say)-ipem-declm
‘Izaki is reported to have tricked Nanatoboto’s people, Tioko said.’
The reported suffix can be used to remind someone of what they said about
themselves, as in:
(30) ti-fimiha-mone,
2sgS-be.hungry-repf
ti-na
2sgA-aux(say)f
‘You were hungry, you said.’
Examples (29–30) – and also (35) – illustrate a complexity of Jarawara gram-
mar. The verb ati -na- ‘say’ omits the ati (the non-inflecting verb component)
when its auxiliary, -na-, bears a pronominal prefix. The occurrence of the auxil-
iary with such a prefix and no accompanying non-inflecting verb root indicates
that the underlying verb is ati -na-.
Note that there is a clear difference between use of an n past tense form,
and use of the reported suffix. One morning I went into the forest with a
Jarawara friend and saw a tree that had just fallen over. Without thinking prop-
erly, I attempted to describe this using the IPe suffix, but was corrected and
told to say:
(31) awaO
tree(f)
ka-so-hani-ke
applic-fall-ipnf-declf
‘The tree has recently fallen (and I didn’t see it fall).’
The n evidentiality is used because the speaker did not himself see it fall. But he
did see for himself that it had fallen, and so did not employ the reported suffix.
The narration of traditional tales normally employs FPn, and 90% of the
occurrences of these are followed by the reported suffix, i.e. -(he)mete-mone/
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.15 (179)
Evidentiality in Jarawara 
-(hi)mata-mona, as in (19a) and (20a). However, when the irrealis suffix is in-
cluded before FPn, as in (23), then it appears that the reported suffix cannot
also be included after it.
The reported suffix cannot be used with any of the three past tense suf-
fixes bearing e evidentiality. As just mentioned, it typically co-occurs with FPn
and is also well-attested with RPn. Interestingly, reported is never used after
IPn. It may be that when the reported suffix occurs without any preceding
tense-modal form, the time frame is – in neutral circumstances – implicitly
‘immediate past’.
A clause including the reported suffix most often has a 3rd person sub-
ject. However, the subject can be 2nd person, as in (30). And it can be 1st
person, as in:
(32) [ee
1nsg.incl
kakome-tee-ri]
be.scared-hab-negative+nominalisation
-mone
-repf
ama-ke
cop-declf
‘We shouldn’t be afraid (lit. our being not habitually afraid, is reported to
be).’
In (32), the subject of the copula verb, ama, is a nominalised clause ‘our habit-
ually not being afraid’, to which the reported suffix is added.
When occurring as a verbal suffix, reported can occur in declarative main
clauses, in questions, and in dependent clauses. It is not attested in commands.
As mentioned in §2.3, a selection of verbal suffixes may be added to a noun (or
to an NP); reported belongs to this set.
Any place that a speaker is not familiar with is likely to be referred to using
the habitual suffix -tee (slot F in Table 1) plus the reported modality. Example
(33) comes from the story of a river journey where the narrator arrives at a
place he is told bears the name Canutama.
(33) [kanatama-tee-monehe
place-hab-repf
jaa]
at
otaa
1nsg.excl.S
kobo
arrive
to-nisa-witiha
away-aux+down-from.place
‘At the place said to be Canutama, we arrived down from (a previous)
place.’
An NP marked with the reported suffix can make up a complete clause. Oko-
mobi was taken by a Padre on a visit to the Sorowahá village and was told that
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.16 (180)
 R. M. W. Dixon
they spoke a language genetically related to Jarawara and were thus a kindred
people. He said, in his account of this journey:
(34) [[otaa
1nsg.excl
kaa
poss
one]
other+f
mee]
plural
-mone
-repf
makoni
no.responsibility.f
‘They are said to be our sort of people (lit: they are said to be others of us).’
In (35), reported is used on the O NP of the first clause (and IPn on the noun
which makes up the second clause):
(35) [makari-mone]O
clothes(f)-repf
o-na
1sgA-aux(say/think)
haa,
dep
rona-ni-ke
canvas(f)-ipnf-declf
‘I thought it was clothing, but it is canvas (lit. it was said to be cloth-
ing, ...).’
In one story a man is accosted by what he thinks is his lover, Watati. In fact it
is a spirit who has taken on the form of Watati. The spirit is referred to by the
narrator as Watati-mone ‘the supposed Watati’.
. Origin
It can be shown, by internal reconstruction, that the initial -hV- syllable of
tense-modal suffixes (in Tables 2 and 3) was originally the final syllable of a
preceding root and has been reanalysed to be now part of the affix (Dixon
2001). In looking for cognates of the reported suffix, we thus consider just the
forms -mone/-mona.
None of the other Arawá languages has a suffix similar in meaning or
in form to -mone/-mona in Jarawara and the other Madi dialects. However,
there appear to be lexical cognates in Paumarí. The dictionary of this language
(Chapman & Salzer 1998:317, 320) mentions an adverb mona ‘they say’ and
also a noun moni ‘news’ (with derived verb ka-moni-ki ‘tell, recount’). It is
likely that in Paumarí the reported adverb ‘they say’ developed out of the noun
‘news’. An earlier stage of Madi may have had a cognate adverb which was then
grammaticalised to become a verbal suffix. The exact nature of the grammati-
calisation process remains a matter for further study (as does the alternation in
final vowels).
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.17 (181)
Evidentiality in Jarawara 
. The secondary verb ‘seem’
One of the unusual features of Jarawara grammar is slots H and I in predicate
structure. When slots H and I are not filled, we may get a tense-modal suffix
(from slot G) directly followed by a mood suffix (from slot J), as in (3b), (6), (9)
and (31), among other examples. However, if there is a 1st or 2nd person pro-
noun (or, in more limited conditions, the 3nsg pronoun) in subject or object
slot, then this may be repeated in slot H. (A full statement of the rules for this
repetition, and the forms involved, is in Dixon 2000.) A nonsingular pronoun
in slot H is a separate word, and if there is a mood suffix it will be added to it.
A singular pronoun in slot H is a prefix, and it forms a word (a ‘rootless’ word)
with a following mood suffix, e.g. o-ke (1sg-declf) in (4), (5a, b) and (10a, b).
There are two forms that I call ‘secondary verbs’, which may occupy slot I.
That which occurs most commonly is ama/ama (with no distinction between
f and m) ‘extended in time’. It occurs in (8) and (15), with no pronoun in slot
H; in (20a), with 3nsg mee in slot H; and in (23), with 1nsg.excl otaa in slot H.
It will be seen that a mood suffix attaches to the secondary verb, e.g. ama-ke
(extent-declf).
We shall here focus on the secondary verb which has an evidential-type
meaning, awine/awa.
. Meaning and occurrence
The secondary verb awine/awa has a semantic range that cannot adequately
be characterised by a single English gloss. Often it can be translated ‘it
seems/appears that’ and I employ seem as the interlinear gloss. Other times
it can be rendered by ‘in my opinion’ or ‘I think’ or ‘I guess’.
Examples of the ‘seem, appear’ sense include:
(36) fahaS
water(f)
kowi-ha
be.deep-f
awine-ke
seemf-declf
‘The water appears to be deep (at this spot in the river).’
(37) [[aba
fish(f)
mee]S
plural
kahi]COPULA.SUBJECT
be.roasted+compl.cl
to-ha
away-cop.f
mee
3nsg
awine-ke
seemf-declf
‘It seems that there is roasted fish (lit. fish being roasted appears to be-
come).’
In one story an Indian heard that a fierce and hostile tribe was approaching,
and hid. The narrator commented:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.18 (182)
 R. M. W. Dixon
(38) haboS
courage+m
baji-re-no
be.deep-negative-ipnm
awa-ka
seemm-declm
‘He appeared to lack courage (lit: his courage appeared not to be deep).’
On returning from a visit to the Jamamadí tribe, I described to the Jarawara
how I had played a cassette of ajaka-style Jarawara singing, and then the Ja-
mamadí sang for me some of their own traditional ajaka songs. I was asked
whether the Jamamadí had understood the Jarawara songs and was instructed
to say in reply:
(39) [[oko
1sg.poss
fita]S
cassette(f)
ajaki]O
sing+compl.cl
mee
3nsgA
wato-ha
understand-f
mee
3nsg
awine-ke
seemf-declf
‘They appeared to understand my cassette’s ajaka singing.’
On another occasion, I was trying to investigate the semantic basis of gen-
der assignment. Having noticed that ‘motor’, ‘motor boat’, ‘plane’ and ‘car’ are
all m, I wondered if everything with a motor would be m. To try to test this
idea, I displayed my rechargeable electric razor, explaining that it had a motor.
Speakers agreed:
(40) motoO
motor(m)
kiha
have+f
awine-ke
seemf-declf
‘[It] appears to have a motor.’
(But, as will be seen from the gender agreement in (40), the shaver itself was
assigned to f gender!)
An example of awine/awa with second person subject is:
(41) [o-wati]O
1sg.poss-voice
tee
2nsgA
mita-ra
hear-neg
tee
2nsg
awine
seemf
‘It appears that you didn’t hear my voice.’
Examples where awine/awa can best be translated by ‘in my opinion’ or ‘I think’
or ‘I guess’ include:
(42) faja
then
ee
1nsg.incl.S
hijara-ba
talk-future.f
ee
1nsg.incl
awine-ke,
seem-declf
[[bahiS
sun(m)
weo
be.mid.afternoon
to-ne]
away-auxm
jaa]
at
‘In my opinion we should talk [pretty soon], since it is now mid-afternoon
(lit. the sun is mid-afternoon).’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.19 (183)
Evidentiality in Jarawara 
One narrative tells how a man has been lying in his hammock talking for half
the night, keeping people awake. They protest that they want to sleep; the
chatterbox replies:
(43) hiba
wait.on
ee
1nsg.inclS
amo
sleep
na-ba
aux-future.f
ee
1nsg.incl
awine-ke,
seem-declf
jama.sokiS
night(f)
jabo-haba
be.long-future.f
awine-ke
seem-declf
‘Wait on, in my opinion we can still sleep (enough), in my opinion there’s
still a lot of the night left (lit. in my opinion, the night will be long).’
As would be expected, the secondary verb awine/awa does not co-occur with
a past tense marked by e evidentiality. It may occur with a past tense bearing
n evidentiality, as in (38). It is not attested in the same clause as the reported
suffix. It appears to allow the subject of its clause to be of any person.
This secondary verb occurs in main clauses but not in any kind of subordi-
nate clause. There is one type of polar interrogative which features awine/awa.
Examples include (3a) and:
(44) [otaa
1nsg.excl
ati]S
language
amosa
be.good
awine(-ni)?
seemf(-p.intf)
‘Is our language good?’
(45) fahaS
water(f)
tasi
come.out
na-ke
aux-coming
awine(-ni)?
seemf(-p.intf)
‘Has the water come out? (of a pipe, when a pump is being tried out).’
(46) OkomobiS
name(m)
to-ko-me
away-be.in.motion-back
awa(-ne)?
seemm(-p.intm)
‘Has Okomobi returned yet?’
Note that the polar interrogative mood marker, -ni/-ne, may be included after
awine/awa in questions of this sort, or it may be omitted.
Another example is:
(47) ijoO
indian
mee
3nsgO
a’ate
ask
o-ra
1sgA-neg
owa
1sg
awine
seemf
oo?
1sg
‘Hadn’t I already asked the Indians? (that I could fish in their waters, said
by a white man who had been accused of fishing without permission).’
As stated at the beginning of the section, it is not an easy matter to convey the
meaning of awine/awa within an English translation; this applies particularly
to questions. One could render (44) as ‘does our language seem good (to you)?’,
but it would be less plausible to include ‘seem’ in the translations of (45) and
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.20 (184)
 R. M. W. Dixon
(46). (It could be that the awine/awa in questions should be treated as a distinct
grammatical form, homonymous with the awine/awa used in non-questions.)
It will be seen that a question marked by awine/awa does not carry any particu-
lar presumption as to what answer is expected. Example (47) is in the nature of
a rhetorical question, the only possible answer being (according to the speaker)
‘yes’; (44–46) do not presuppose that the answer should be ‘yes’ or ‘no’.
In questions, as in indicative clauses, awine/awa can occur with a past tense
in n evidentiality (but not with one that has the e value).
. Origin
The secondary verb ama/ama ‘extended in time’ has identical form to – and
morphological properties as – the copula verb ama ‘be’, illustrated in examples
(17) and (32). The secondary verb awine/awa ‘seem’ is identical in form to the
ambi-transitive inflecting verb awa ‘see, be seen’ plus the suffix (from slot F of
predicate structure) -ine/ø ‘continuous’. It is likely that a biclausal construction
in an earlier stage of the language – in which the second clause featured ama or
awa plus -ine/ø – developed into the rather complex predicate structure of the
modern language.
Now, the Jamamadí and Banawá dialects of Madi are similar to Jarawara
in tense-modal suffixes (except that, as mentioned in §2.4, they lack IPe
-(ha)ra/-(ha)re). But it appears – from the limited information available – that
secondary verbs are less well represented in their grammars. In Jamamadí there
are, it seems, clauses including the secondary verb ama/ama, with these being
glossed ‘X is the one who did it’. This supports the idea of a biclausal origin for
secondary verb predicates.
It may be that there were originally biclausal constructions on the pattern:
(48) kasasaO
cachaça(f)
mee
3nsgA
fawa,
drink+f
meeCOPULA.SUBJECT
3nsg
ama-ke
copula-declf
‘They are drinking cachaça (cane-whiskey), they are.’
The construction in (48) would have the meaning ‘they are the ones who are
drinking cachaça’. Then (48) could develop into a single clause with a complex
predicate, as set out in Table 1, with the meaning ‘they are drinking cachaça,
for an extended period’.
There may also have been biclausal constructions like:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.21 (185)
Evidentiality in Jarawara 
(49) kasasaO
cachaça(f)
mee
3nsgA
fawa,
drink+f
meeCOPULA.SUBJECT
3nsg
awi-ne
be.seen-continuousf
‘They are drinking cachaça (cane-whiskey), they are being seen.’
And this could, in similar fashion, have developed into a single clause with
a complex predicate (as in Table 1), now meaning ‘they seem to be drinking
cachaça’.
I am thus suggesting that the copula verb ama ‘be’ and the lexical verb awa
‘see, be seen’ (plus continuous suffix -ine/ø ) were grammaticalised in Jarawara,
to become secondary elements within the structure of the predicate. In asso-
ciation with the grammaticalisation, there would have been a readjustment
of meanings.
(Such a historical scenario fits well into a comprehensive diachronic
scheme that I am developing, which attempts to tie together and explain a
number of the unusual grammatical features of Jarawara and of other lan-
guages in the Arawá family.)
. Summary
There are three places in the predicate of Jarawara at which an evidentiality-
type specification may be made. Note that all post-root elements in the predi-
cate are optional, so that no clause must include a marker of evidentiality.
a. In the tense-modal slot of predicate structure there are three past tenses (im-
mediate, recent and far past), each with one form for eyewitness and one for
non-eyewitness evidentiality (and also distinct forms for feminine and mas-
culine agreement). That is, an e/n evidentiality choice must be made with any
marking of past tense.
The immediate past non-eyewitness suffix also has a mirative sense (which
is independent of the distance in the past of the event, and of whether or
not it was witnessed). IPn also functions as a neutralisation of the past-
tense/evidentiality system in dependent clauses, and in content questions; it
is also the only term in the system to be able to follow declarative mood.
b. Also occurring in the tense-modal slot is a reported marker, -(ha)mone/
-(hi)mona. This may follow the far past or recent past non-eyewitness tense
suffixesbut not the immediate past non-eyewitnesssuffix. The reported marker
also occurs without any tense specification and the implicit time reference is
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.22 (186)
 R. M. W. Dixon
typically then to the immediate past. The reported suffix is also quite common
on NPs. It cannot occur in dependent clauses or in questions.
c. A late slot in predicate structure relates to two secondary verbs. One of
them, awine/awa,has an evidential-type meaning ‘it seems, appears’ or ‘I think,
guess’. It occurs with past tense markers having non-eyewitness evidentiality,
but not with eyewitness forms. It does not co-occur with the reported suffix.
This form (or a homonym of it) is also used to mark polar questions.
Thus, for a clause with past time reference, we have – in essence – the
following choices:
eyewitness past suffix
non-eyewitness past suffix
reported modality suffix
'seem' secondary verb
neither
Note that while the reported suffix appears to be restricted to past time clauses,
the secondary verb ‘seem’ may also occur with a non-past modality, for exam-
ple future as in (42–43). In addition, both the reported suffix and the secondary
verb may occur without any preceding past/evidentiality suffix. (And, as noted
above, the immediate past non-eyewitness suffix cannot be followed by the
reported suffix.)
The ‘seem’ secondary verb probably comes from grammaticalisation of the
lexical verb awa ‘see, be seen’, plus ‘continuous’ suffix -ine/ø ; modern predicate
structure involving a secondary verb probably goes back to what was a biclausal
construction.
The reported suffix probably comes from grammaticalisation of an adverb
‘they say’, which may in turn derive from a noun ‘news’.
An earlier stage of the language probably lacked the immediate past eyewit-
ness tense, with the present-day recent past eyewitness corresponding to both
immediate past and to recent past non-eyewitness. The immediate past eyewit-
ness suffix was innovated rather recently (I do not know from where), and has
not yet been extended also to be used with NPs.
Notes
* My major debt is to the Jarawara people who welcomed me as a temporary member of
their community, worked at teaching me their language, and answered all of my questions –
Okomobi, Mioto, Soki, Kamo, Botenawaa, Kakai, Wero and others. Alan Vogel is assisting
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:40 F: TSL5407.tex / p.23 (187)
Evidentiality in Jarawara 
me on a grammar of Jarawara and we have discussed many of the points in this chapter.
Alexandra Aikhenvald provided stimulation, asked searching questions, and gave the most
helpful comments.
. The two oldest speakers have allomorphs of the reported suffix as follows: -(ha)monehe/
-(hi)monaha when predicate-final and before the backgrounding mood suffix -ni/-ne, and
-(ha)mone/-(hi)mona in all other environments. The longer allomorph occurs in (26) and
(33). Younger speakers appear to have generalised the -(ha)mone/-(hi)mona forms to be
used in all circumstances.
References
Chapman, S., & Salzer, M. (1998). Dicionário bilíngue nas línguas paumarí e portuguesa.
Porto Velho, Brazil: Sociedade Internacional de Linguística.
Delancey, S. (1997). Mirativity: the grammatical marking of unexpected information.
Linguistic Typology, 1, 33–52.
Dixon, R. M. W. (1995). Fusional development of gender marking in Jarawara possessed
nouns. International Journal of American Linguistics, 61, 263–294.
—— (1999). Arawá. In R. M. W. Dixon & Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald (Eds.), The Amazonian
languages (pp. 293–306). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (2000). A-constructions and O-constructions in Jarawara. International Journal of
American Linguistics, 66, 22–56.
—— (2001). Internal reconstruction of tense-modal suffixes in Jarawara. Diachronica, 18,
3–30.
—— (2002).The eclectic morphology of Jarawara,and the status of word. In R. M. W. Dixon
& A. Y. Aikhenvald (Eds.), Word: a cross-linguistic typology (pp. 125–183). Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.1 (189)
Chapter 8
Evidentiality in the Balkans with special
attention to Macedonian and Albanian*
Victor A. Friedman
. Introduction and survey
The term evidential, although hinted at in descriptions of Native American
languages at the beginning of the twentieth century, was introduced as such
by Boas in 1947 (Jacobsen 1986:4), a decade before Jakobson (1957/1971) ex-
panded its meaning to apply to Balkan Slavic. The earliest description of the
type of evidential strategy systems (Aikhenvald, this volume) to which Jakob-
son applied the label, however, goes back to al-Kāšğarı̄’s 11th century Dı̄wān
luğāt at-Turk, which describes the Turkic miş-past/di-past distinction in terms
of an unwitnessed/witnessed opposition (Dankoff 1982:412). Such usage is
attested in the oldest Turkic data (8th century; Tekin 1968:192–193). In this
chapter, however, I shall refer to Turkish only insofar as it helps illuminate the
Balkan Indo-European situation. (See the Appendix for a map of the Balkans
accompanied by a description of the geograhical layout of these languages.)
Of the ‘classic’ Balkan languages (Albanian, Greek, Romance, and Slavic),
only Greek does not possess evidential categories, although the unacceptability
of the perfect in nonvolitional contexts requires further research (Friedman
1977:127, based on Kostas Kazazis & Joseph Pentheroudakis p.c.):
(1) Khorís
without
ná
su
tó
it
kataláv-o,
understand-pres+1sg
éspasa
break+ao+1sg
*ékh-o
have-pres+1sg
spás-i
break-part
tí
the+acc
bukála.
bottle
‘Without noticing it, I broke/have broken the bottle.’ (December 1974).
To this can be added the use of lé[e]i ‘one says’ as a kind of particle express-
ing a complex of evidential-like meanings including the expected ‘reportedly,
allegedly’ but also a mirative-like emphatic:1
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.2 (190)
 Victor A. Friedman
(2) – Í-tan
be-im+3sg
kaló
Good
to
the
fagitó?
meal
– Kaló,
good
lé-i!
say-pres+3sg
– ‘Was the meal good?’
– ‘Very good!’ (Kriareas 1995)
Since it lacks clearly grammaticalized evidential strategies, Greek will not be
considered further.
Of the remaining three groups, all contain languages with verbal cate-
gories participating in evidential strategies without literally specifying source
of evidence. For these languages, therefore, evidential is understood as refer-
ring to evidential strategies. Aronson (1967) proposed the term confirmative
in place of the misleading witnessed to describe Bulgarian evidentials in which
the speaker is markedly vouching for the truth of the statement, and I extended
this analysis by using the term nonconfirmative to refer to evidentials that at-
tenuate personal vouching by means of reportedness, inference, sarcasm, or
surprise (e.g. Friedman 1977, 1981, 1986; see also Aronson 1991:116–117).2
If we understand confirmative to be the strategic equivalent of ‘eyewitness’ in
those systems where that meaning is grammaticalized, and nonconfirmative to
be the strategic equivalent of ‘noneyewitness’ (if it is opposed as unmarked
to a marked confirmative) or ‘non-firsthand’ (if it is the marked member of
an opposition), depending on the system, then the Balkan languages (except
Greek) all show systems of Aikhenvald’s type A2 (where nonconfirmative is the
marked term), and Balkan Slavic has, in addition, an A1 system (where confir-
mative is marked and nonconfirmative is the chief contextual variant meaning
[Hauptbedeutung] of the unmarked member).
In the case of Balkan Romance, the so-called presumptive mood of Daco-
Romanian – which is formed by means of a future, conditional, or subjunctive
marker plus invariant fi ‘be’ plus the present or past participle of the main
verb – has functions of the A2 type (see Friedman 2000):
(3) Doar,
surely
n-or
not-fut
fi
be
av-înd
have-pres+part
puric-i!
flea-pl
‘Surely he doesn’t have fleas!’ (Ioanna Chitoran, p.c. February, 1998)
The same is true of the inverted perfect of Megleno-Romanian:
(4) ă
a
bră,
hey
tu
you
fost-ăi
Û
be+pa+part-have+pres+2sg
mári
big
om!
man
‘Hey, you’re an important person!’ (Friedman 1994:81)
Varol (2001) also reports a use of the pluperfect instead of a simple past in
Istanbul Judezmo that calques the A2 function of the Turkish miş-past:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.3 (191)
Evidentiality in the Balkans 
(5) Kuando
when
esta-v-an
be-im-3pl
en
in
l’
the
Amérika,
America
les
them+dat
av-iy-a
have-im-3sg
entra-do
enter-pa+part
ladrón
thief
‘When they were in America [i.e. absent], a thief broke into their house.’
(Varol 2001:91)
A morphologically marked evidential strategy is attested in Aromanian (Vlah)
only for the Frasheriote Vlahs of the village of Belã di Suprã (Macedonian
Gorna Belica, located northeast of Struga on the Albanian border; Friedman
1994). In the dialect of this group, who migrated to Macedonia from central
Albania about a century ago, the evidential is based on the Albanian admira-
tive (see §2.2.2) using a calqued participial base plus the 3sg Albanian present
admirative marker (-ka) reinterpreted as an invariant particle:
(6) Abe
hey
tora
now
tini
you
fus-ka
be+part-adm
avut
rich
om!
man!
‘Hey, you’re a rich man now!’ (August, 1992)
There is some debate over whether the Daco-Romanian presumptive is pa-
radigmatic or syntactic, and there is a paucity of data for the Megleno-
Romanian and Judezmo phenomena. The Vlah admirative patterns mostly like
the Albanian.3
From a morphological standpoint, Balkan Slavic is a dialectal continuum
in this respect – as in others. Macedonian and Bulgarian both have an A1 sys-
tem and an A2 subsystem based on a reinterpretation and subsequentextension
of the opposition simple preterite [aorist/imperfect]/perfect.4
An additional A2
evidential, the probabilitive, has also been reported for the dialect of Novo Selo
(Vidinsko), in northwestern Bulgaria near the Romanian and Serbian borders
(Mladenov 1969:108–116). In this dialect, the ordinary future is formed, as in
Bulgarian and Macedonian in general, by means of a preposed invariant par-
ticle derived from a verb meaning ‘want’ plus a conjugating main verb. The
Serbian future type – which is formed by means of a postposed conjugating
clitic auxiliary of the same origin (‘want’) attached to a stem based on the in-
finitive – has been retained in this dialect but reinterpreted as an evidential
with present, future, and past tenses, probably evolving semantically under the
influence of the Romanian presumptive:
(7) Što
what
čă
fut
ni
us+dat
pituvà-čă-š
ask-pb-pres+2sg
tì
you+nom
nàs...
us+dat
‘Why will you ask us...?!’ (Mladenov 1969:111)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.4 (192)
 Victor A. Friedman
Macedonian and Bulgarian dialects show considerable morphological varia-
tion in their treatments of evidentials (Friedman 1988; Fielder 2002, forthcom-
ing), but the underlying semantics are fairly consistent. I shall take Standard
Macedonian, which in this regard faithfully reflects its West Central dialectal
base (Prilep-Veles-Kičevo-Brod), as exemplary of Balkan Slavic for this chap-
ter. The most salient differences between Standard Macedonian and Standard
Bulgarian with regard to evidential strategies are the following: 1) Macedonian
has developed a new perfect using the auxiliary ‘have’ which participates in
the confirmative/nonconfirmative opposition while Bulgarian has developed
a new pluperfect using a nonconfirmative auxiliary ‘be’ (3sgm bil) producing
an A2 subsystem; 2) the Macedonian future/conditional marker derived from
‘want’ is invariant, whereas in Bulgarian the cognate marker is invariant in the
present but conjugates in the past (in both languages, the new pluperfect mark-
ers and the future markers can interact); 3) the older perfect, from which the
(nonconfirmative) unmarked past is derived in Balkan Slavic, completely lost
the third person auxiliary in Standard Macedonian whereas the presence ver-
sus absence of this auxiliary is manipulated in Standard Bulgarian (and also
in Serbo-Croatian and East Macedonian dialects) as a discourse marker asso-
ciated with narrator involvement. In traditional descriptions of Bulgarian, the
absence of the third person auxiliary is said to mark an independent noneye-
witness evidential paradigm, but empirical evidence contradicts this analysis
(see Friedman 1982, 1986; Fielder 1995, 2002; see also Guentchéva 1996 for a
contrasting view).
Albanian has an A2 system using a set of paradigms traditionally termed
the admirative, first described by Dozon (1879:226–227), who introduced
the French admiratif on the basis of Kristoforidhi’s Greek aposdókētoi ‘unex-
pected’.5
The Albanian admirative is a markedly nonconfirmative, morpholog-
ically distinct set of paradigms which, while taking ‘surprise’ as its most com-
mon meaning (see Note 5), can also express sarcasm, inference, reporting, etc.
Jacobsen (1964) used the term mirative to describe the marking of surprise in
Washo. Although it has been traditional in Balkan linguistics since Weigand
(1923–1924) to apply the term admirative to the use of the Balkan Slavic un-
marked past to express surprise at a newly discovered (but pre-existing) state,
(see example 21 cf. also Guentchéva 1996), we can distinguish between mira-
tive, which is limited to unexpected or surprising information, and admirative,
which refers to a set of paradigms for which ‘surprise’ (mirativity) is one of
the contextual variant meanings. The Balkan Slavic phenomenon is one use
of the unmarked past, whereas the Albanian, like the Vlah, is a complete set
of paradigms, including a true present. For Albanian I shall use the standard
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.5 (193)
Evidentiality in the Balkans 
language, which in this respect reflects its northern Tosk (South Albanian) di-
alectal base. Admiratives are absent from pre-sixteenth century diaspora di-
alects (Italy [Arbëresh], Greece [Arvanitika]) and show different developments
in some post-sixteenth century diaspora dialects (Bulgaria, Ukraine, Zadar) as
well as in northern dialects (Demiraj 1971:37; Mindak 1980).
Romani, while not a ‘classic’ Balkan language, has been spoken in the re-
gion for many centuries and also deserves mention here. Romani does not have
a uniformly developed evidential system or strategy. Matras (1995), using data
from the Kalderaš and Lovara dialects, analyzes the opposition between 3sg
simple pasts of some intransitive verbs that agree with their subjects either
for gender or for person (e.g. avil-o, avil-i, or avil-as = ‘came’ 3sgm, 3sgf, or
3sgm/f) as a discourse strategy connected to shared vs. personal knowledge,
and Kostov (1973:108) reports that the Romani dialect of Sliven transforms
the -l of the Bulgarian evidential (equivalent to the Macedonian l-past) into an
evidential particle, li, which is suffixed to past tense forms much like the Vlah
phenomenon cited above.
. Organization
. Category and strategy
The Macedonian evidential type is based on a discourse strategy using inher-
ited forms that acquired evidential meaning which was subsequently extended
to new paradigms. The Albanian evidential is expressed by a separate set of
paradigms that have their origins in a grammaticalized inverted perfect. Ev-
idential strategies are grammaticalized in both languages in that a meaning
which is encoded into certain paradigms cannot be avoided when those forms
are used. However, in Albanian, where evidentiality is the unambiguous (in-
variant) component of a series of paradigmatic sets, usage is never obliga-
tory. On the other hand, Macedonian evidentiality is a strategy that cannot
be avoided in ordinary past tense narration. One must indicate one’s degree of
commitment to the truth of the statement, and the only way to avoid this is to
switch to the historical present. Although literal ‘source of information’ is not
the invariant meaning, it is normally taken to be the motivating factor in the
speaker’s choice.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.6 (194)
 Victor A. Friedman
. Description of systems
.. Macedonian
The Macedonian evidential system consists of three sets of two paradigms each.
The synthetic aorist and imperfect, which are opposed to each other aspectu-
ally as non-durational/durational, are marked for speaker’s confirmation of the
narrated event. There is a parallel set of analytic unmarked pasts (or l-pasts,
also marking aorist/imperfect aspect) descended from the old perfect, which
used the Common Slavic resultative participle in -l (based on the aorist stem)
with the present tense of ‘be’ as an auxiliary. The modern set has added a new
l-form based on the imperfect stem and dropped the auxiliary in the third per-
son. The l-form agrees with the subject in gender (in the singular) or number
(in the plural). The unmarked past usually implies but does not always express
nonconfirmative in opposition to the marked confirmative. A third set is based
on a new perfect using the auxiliary ‘have’ in the synthetic imperfect and l-past
imperfect plus an invariant neuter verbal adjective (descended from the old
past passive participle). This last, newer set is equipollently marked as confir-
mative/nonconfirmative. In Bulgarian, the new pluperfect (e.g. bil napravil ‘he
[allegedly, etc.] did’) is markedly nonconfirmative like its Macedonian equiv-
alent (imal napraveno). The inherited pluperfect (synthetic imperfect of ‘be’
plus the verbal l-form, e.g. beše napravil ‘he had done’ in both languages) is
outside the system of evidential strategies in Macedonian, whereas in Bulgar-
ian it can be used in reported but not anti-confirmative contexts (e.g. the type
illustrated in example (11); Friedman 1986). The Macedonian inherited plu-
perfect is opposed to the have-pluperfect by the fact that the latter is marked as
a resultative of state (see Friedman 1977:104–106).
The following examples are illustrative.
(8) No
but
podocna
later
se
in
sluč-i-ja
happen-ao-3pl
rabot-i
work-pl
za
about
ko-i
which-pl
ne
neg
zna-e-v
know-im-1sg
‘But after that things happened which I didn’t know about’ (Nova Make-
donija 19.VI.74:5)
(9) Zuza:
Z.
Blaže
B.
bi-l
be-l+masc
vo
in
Moskva.
Moscow
Kosta:
K.
Da,
Yes
b-e-še.
be-im-3sg
Zuza: ‘Blaže was in Moscow.’ Kosta: ‘Yes, [I know] he was.’ (October, 1986)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.7 (195)
Evidentiality in the Balkans 
(10) Mu
him+dat
se
in
jav-i-v
call-ao-1sg
na
to
vujko
uncle
mi.
me+dat
Ne
neg
b-e-še
be-im-3sg
doma,
at.home
na
at
plaža
beach
bi-l.
be-l+masc
‘I called my uncle. He wasn’t home, apparently he was at the beach.’ (Au-
gust, 1992)
(11) Ne
neg
veruv-a-m
believe-pres-3sg
deka
that
toj
he
go
it+acc
napravi-l/[*]naprav-i
do-l+masc/do-ao+3sg
toa.
that
‘I don’t believe that he did it.’ (Friedman 1978:110)
(12) Za-toa
for-that
što
what
forma-ta
form-def
b-e-še
be-im-3sg
reše-n-o
decide-va-n
odgovar-a
answer-pr+3sg
na
to
se
in
reš-i,
decide-ao+3sg
t.e.
i.e.
na
to
minato-to
past-def
opredeleno
definite
vreme,
tense
ko-e
which-nom
go
it+acc
upotrebuv-a-me
use-pres-1pl
za
for
označuvanje
indication
dejstv-a
action-pl
što
what
se vrše-l-e
in perform-l-pl
ili
or
se
in
izvrši-l-e
accomplish-l-pl
vo
in
opredelen
definite
moment
moment
vo
in
minato-to.
past-def
‘It is because the form had been decided corresponds to was decided,
i.e. to the past definite tense, which we use to indicate actions that
were performed or accomplished at a definite time in the past.’ (Minova-
Ǵurkova 1984)
In example (8) the speaker knows that the events happened, and therefore uses
a confirmative form despite the fact that he did not see them. Examples (9) and
(10) demonstrate the way the confirmative and nonconfirmative pasts can be
manipulated based on attitude rather than evidence (pace Lunt 1952:93). In
(9), Zuza introduced a story about Blaže’s recent trip to Moscow using the un-
marked past since she wished to emphasize that she was not in Moscow herself.
Kosta, however, who was also not in Moscow, responded with the confirma-
tive past to indicate that he already knew and accepted the veracity as given.
In example (10), the speaker personally vouched for the fact that his uncle
was not home because he was certain the latter would have come to the tele-
phone, whereas the speaker chose not to vouch for his uncle’s actual location
with the same certainty since neither the speaker nor the interlocutor could
be sure that the uncle was actually at the beach. This could be taken as a sec-
ondhand/thirdhand distinction, but it is the speaker’s choice. In context, using
the l-past to report his uncle’s absence would have connoted doubt or surprise.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.8 (196)
 Victor A. Friedman
Thus, the deciding factor is the speaker’s attitude toward the information, since
the evidence is all from a single report. Example (11) shows that the marked
confirmative is unacceptable in an anti-confirmative context. Note that (11) is
grammatical if the meaning of ‘I don’t believe’ is infelicitous, i.e. if I am actually
certain he did it but am surprised, cf. English I can’t believe I ate the whole thing!
Example (12) illustrates the basically unmarked nature of the l-past using it for
a general definition.
In ordinary usage, a synthetic past will lead to the assumption that the
speaker has a reason to confirm the statement and will not be considered nor-
mal if the source of information is a report. The use of the l-past usually im-
plies nonconfirmativity and is expected to be used if there is no reason for the
speaker to confirm the statement. At the same time, however, the l-past still
retains its perfect nuances and can be used as a neutral (unmarked) past.
In the case of the have-perfects, the present perfect using ‘have’ is outside
the evidential system, leaving a markedly confirmative pluperfect using a syn-
thetic imperfect auxiliary and an markedly nonconfirmative perfect using the
l-past of the auxiliary. The following examples are typical:
(13) Pusti-ot
damned-def
Selman-Aga
S.A.
ima-l
has-l+masc
sobra-n-o
gather-va-n
Arnaut-i
Albanian-pl
za
for
da
su
te
you+acc
grabn-e
kidnap-pres+3sg
[...]
[...]
čovek
person
dojd-e
come-ao+3sg
kaž-a,...
tell-ao+3sg
‘That damned Selman-Aga has gathered Albanians in order to kidnap you
[...] A man came and said so...’ (Krle 1972:167)
(14) Jas
I
do-togaš
until-then
nem-a-v
neg+have-im-1sg
vide-n-o
see-va-nom
bel
white
čovek
person
‘I had never yet seen a white person’ (Počinka 12.IX.72:31)
.. Albanian
The Albanian present and imperfect admirative are descended from an inverted
perfect and pluperfect consisting of the short participle and the auxiliary ‘have’
conjugated in the present and imperfect tenses, respectively (Demiraj 1971).
The present and imperfect admiratives of ‘have’ can themselves be used as aux-
iliaries with the participle to form the admirative perfect and pluperfect.6
The
admirative perfect and pluperfect using a short participle can also form com-
pound analytic pasts. These latter are rare in the standard language. Table 1 is
illustrative.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.9 (197)
Evidentiality in the Balkans 
Table 1. 1sg indicative of ‘have’
Nonadmirative Admirative
Present kam paskam
Perfect kam pasur paskam pasur
Imperfect kisha paskësha
Pluperfect (IM) kisha pasur paskësha pasur
Past Perfect kam pasë pasur paskam pasë pasur
Past Pluperfect (IM) kisha pasë pasur paskësha pasë pasur
Aorist pata –
2nd Pluperfect (AO) pata pasur –
2nd Past Pluperfect (AO) pata pasë pasur –
The correct interpretation of the Albanian admirative is determined by
context, as can be seen in the following examples:
(15) Ti
you
kërcye-k-e
dance-adm-pres+2sg
shumë
very
mirë!
well
‘You dance very well!’ (August, 1995)
(16) – Sot
today
pas-k-emi
have-adm-pres+1pl
drekë
supper
të
pc
thatë,
dry
a?
q
– Po.
Yes
Si
how
ja
it+acc+it-dat
qëll-ov-e?
guess-ao-2sg
– S’
neg
kundërm-o-n
smell-pres-3sg
as-një
neg-one
e
pc
djegur.
burnt
– ‘We have a cold supper tonight, eh?’ – ‘Yes. How did you guess?’ –
‘Nothing smells burnt.’ (Rilindja 12.VIII.12:8)
(17) – Unë
I
për
for
vete
self
nuk
neg
kam
have+pres+1sg
faj[...]
fault
– Si
how
more
hey
Loni,
L.
s’
neg
pas-k-e
have-adm-2sg
faj?!
fault
– ‘As for me, it’s not my fault.’[...] – ‘Hey, Loni, what do you mean it’s not
your fault?!’ (Buchholz & Fiedler 1987:155)
Example (15) expresses surprise at unexpected new information based on im-
mediate observation. Example (16) is an inference based on smell. Examples
(17, 47) express dubitative usage, i.e. disbelief, sarcasm, irony, etc. Example
(46) illustrates a neutral report.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.10 (198)
 Victor A. Friedman
. Semantics
. Inference, supposition, report, epistemic, hypothetical
In Macedonian, the choice of evidential in inferencesand suppositions depends
on the conviction of the speaker. The confirmative form can be used for any
type of evidence (sight, sound, smell, etc.; Friedman 1977:39). Consider the
following example:7
(18) –
–
Kade
where
e
is
Violeta?!
V.
[...]
[...]
–
–
Vo
in
bolnica,
hospital
drugar
comrade
inspektor
inspector
[...]
[...]
–
–
Znač-i
mean-pres+3sg
im-a-še
have-im-3sg
i
and
puka-nje?!
shoot-vn
–
–
Ne...
no
–
–
Što
what
se
in
sluč-i?
happen-ao+3sg
–
–
Vinko
V.
se
in
obid-e
try-ao+3sg
da
su
ja
her-acc
ubi-e.
kill-pres+3sg
– ‘Where is Violeta?!’ [...] – ‘In the hospital, Comrade Inspector’ [...]
– ‘So then there was shooting, too?!’ – ‘No...’ – ‘What happened?’
– ‘Vinko tried to kill her.’ (Počinka 21 X 74:27)
In example (18), the inspector’s imaše involves a confirmative inference based
on a report. Moreover, Svetislav’s confirmative ubie is based on an inference
from a witnessed result of an unwitnessed act. He did not actually see Vinko’s
attempt at murder. He was chasing Vinko’s car, lost sight of it, and then found
Violeta lying by the road. The speakers are both emphasizing their being con-
vinced of the inferences. The l-past will be used if such emphasis is not desired
as in (19), where the speaker uses the nonconfirmative pretpostavuval ‘supp-
posed’ because he is speculating on Bob’s assumption, the present imaat ‘they
have’ in reporting what he thinks Bob said since that would have been the orig-
inal tense of the statement, but the confirmative raboteše ‘worked’ because the
speaker knows that Liddy was spying:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.11 (199)
Evidentiality in the Balkans 
(19) Misl-am
think-pres+1sg
deka
that
Bob
B.
pretpostavuva-l
suppose-l+masc
oti
that
tie
they
im-a-at
have-pres-3pl
nešto
something
ovde,
here
nekakv-a
some-fem
operacija
operation
za
for
sobira-nje
gather-vn
na
of
informaci-i,
information-pl
na
on
koj
which
što
what
rabot-e-še
work-im-3sg
Lidi
L.
‘I think Bob was assuming that they had something over there, some in-
telligence operation that Liddy was operating.’
(Nova Makedonija 16.VI.73:27)
In Albanian, because the admirative is a marked nonconfirmative, its use in
inference always carries a nuance of surprise, doubt, etc. as in (16) above.
In the case of Macedonian, epistemic modals can themselves be either con-
firmative or nonconfirmative, followed by a subjunctive clause in the present
tense (see example 28 below). However, a speculation that the speaker wishes
specifically not to confirm can be in the l-past, as in example (20):
(20) Iako
although
s-i-te
all-pl-def
vel-at
say-pres+3pl
deka
that
naj-golem-i-te
most-big-pl-def
problem-i
problem-pl
na
of
Makedonija
Macedonia
se
are
vnatrešn-i,
internal-pl
se-pak,
all-again
mene
me+dat
mi
me+dat
se
in
čin-i
seem-pres+3sg
deka
that
atentat-ot
assasination.attempt-def
treba
must+pres+3sg
da
su
bi-l
be-l+masc
izvrše-n
complete-va
od
from
nadvor.
outside
‘Although everyone says that Macedonia’s greatest problems are internal,
nonetheless it seems to me that the assassination attempt [against Presi-
dent Kiro Gligorov] must have been effected from outside.’
(November, 1996)
In Albanian, admirativity is not attested in co-occurrence with epistemic
modality, but in principle could occur as an expression of speaker noncon-
firmativity (report, surprise, sarcasm, etc.).
. Mirative and dubitative
Both the Albanian admirative and the Macedonian l-past can be used to express
surprise and various shades of unreliability: doubt, disbelief, irony, sarcasm etc.
(Friedman 1981). Examples (14) and (16) above illustrate the ‘surprise’ and
‘unreliable’ readings of the Albanian admirative.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.12 (200)
 Victor A. Friedman
Examples (21) and (22) are typical of the mirative and dubitative uses of
the Macedonian l-past:
(21) Ti
you
si
be+pres+2sg
bi-l
be-l+masc
Rom!
Rom
Ne
neg
sum
be+pres+1sg
znae-l!
know-l+masc
‘You’re a Rom! I didn’t know!’ (Response to a blond person saying he is a
Rom; October, 1973)
(22) Ti
you
Vlav
Vlah
si
be+pres+2sg
bi-l!
be-l+masc
Laž-e-š!
lie-pres-2sg
‘You’re a Vlah [you claim]! You’re lying!’
(Humorous banter; September, 1997)
The fact that the correct translation in these contexts must be an English
present tense has been used to argue that the Macedonian evidential (l-past)
does not mark tense. However, there is always some sort of past reference in-
volved in such usage. In Balkan Slavic mirative usage, apparent present mean-
ing is restricted to the discovery of pre-existing states, i.e. the meaning is ‘it
has been the case that ... but until now I did not know it’. Similarly, dubitative
usage with an apparent present meaning always refers to a real or putative pre-
vious statement, i.e. it is refutation predicated upon repetition (example 16 is
typical in this respect).
Evidence for this analysis can be found in comparisons with Albanian.
Example (23) was uttered by a Kosovar colleague upon taking a sip of a lo-
cal brandy whose quality had declined in recent years. In examples (24)–(25),
taken from the Albanian translation of Konstantinov (1895/1973), it is pre-
cisely when a mirative statement refers to the discovery of a pre-existing state
that Albanian permits the use of any past admirative form in addition to the
normal present admirative of the type illustrated in (14). In all of these ex-
amples, where Albanian has an admirative, Bulgarian and Macedonian use the
l-past, and Turkish uses the miş-past:
(23) Pas-k-a
have-adm-pres+3sg
qe-në
be-pt
e
pc
mirë!
good
‘Why, it turns out that it’s good!’ (June, 2001)
(24) Ore,
hey
fare
complete
gomar
ass
pas-k-ësh
have-adm-im+3sg
që-në
be-pt
ky
this
njeri!
person
‘What an complete ass that guy is!’ (Xoxa 1975:98)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.13 (201)
Evidentiality in the Balkans 
(25) Ama
but
njerëz
people
fare
completely
pa
without
mend
mind
qën-k-ësh-in
be-adm-im-3pl
kë-ta...
these-pl
‘What fools are these...’ (Xoxa 1975:24)
. Correlations with other grammatical categories
. Interrogatives
The use of evidentials in interrogatives is crucial in supporting my preceding
claim that mirative use of the l-past always involves reference to a past state. In
example (26), a man walks into a barbershop and sees the apprentice but not
the boss. He asks:
(26) Ku
where
qen-k-a
be-adm-pres+3sg
mjeshtr-i?
boss-def
‘Where is the boss?’ (Rilindja 8.VI.92:8)
He is asking with surprise where the boss is at the actual moment in time, not
at some pre-existing time. In such a context, the sentence cannot be translated
with an l-form into Macedonian or the miş-past of Turkish:
(27) Kade
where
bi-l
be-l+masc
majstor-ot.
boss-def
Usta
boss
nerede-ymiş
where-be+miş.pa+3sg
*Where is the boss?/Where was the boss?
As indicated in the translation, the sentence in Macedonian (or, mutatis mu-
tandis, Bulgarian) or Turkish means ‘Where was the boss?’, although a dubita-
tive interpretation of the type ‘Where did you say the boss is [implied – I don’t
believe you]?’ in response to an answer that has already been given would also
be possible. The fact that the Macedonian l-past in its mirative function cannot
be used to request present information, whereas the Albanian present admira-
tive can, supports my analysis that any apparent present meaning of the l-past
requires past reference.
In Macedonian, the choice of tense for a question will either be determined
by the speaker’s expectations concerning the addressee’s knowledge (28, 29),
the speaker’s own certainties (30, 31), or by the speaker’s intentions in engaging
the addressee (32, 33).
(28) Ti
you
treb-a-še
must-im-3sg
da
su
dojd-e-š
come-pres-2sg
tuka?
here
‘Were you supposed to come here?’ (August, 1976)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.14 (202)
 Victor A. Friedman
(29) Dali
q
taa
she
saka-l-a
want-l-fem
da
su
go
it+acc
zem-a?
take-pres+3sg
‘Did she want to take it?’ (September, 1997)
(30) Kade
where
ja
it+acc
kup-i
buy-ao+2sg
kola-ta?
car-def
‘Where did you buy the car?’
(31) Kade
where
si
be+pres+2sg
ja
it+acc
kupi-l
buy-l+masc
kolat-a?
car-def
‘Where did you buy the car?’
(32) Solana
S.
dojd-e
come-ao+3sg
vo
in
Skopje?
S.
‘Did Solana come to Skopje?’
(33) Što,
what
pak
again
došo-l
come-l+masc
Solana
S.
vo
in
Skopje?
S.
‘What, did Solana come to Skopje again?’
In (28), the speaker used the confirmative past since she expected me to be
able to answer on the basis of personal knowledge, whereas (29) was asked
in the course of a party game using a fictional story which therefore proceeded
entirely in nonconfirmative forms. The difference between (30) and (31) is that
in (30) the speaker is likely to have seen the car or have some other reason to
be certain that the addressee has a new car, whereas in (31) s/he may have
simply heard that the addressee has a new car or may be expressing mirativity
or dubitativity. The difference between (32) and (33) is that (32) is a simple
request for information and is not intended to lead to further conversation,
whereas (33) is more of an invitation to conversation, or even a request for
confirmation of something the speaker may already know. In this sense, (33)
can have a nuance of mirativity. If evidential strategies are not implicated, the
older preterite/perfect opposition applies: A synthetic past question will refer
to a specific event and an l-past question to a general state, as in English Were
you there? vs Have you [ever] been there?
In Albanian, an admirative question always carries an additional noncon-
firmative nuance in which the speaker expresses an attitude toward some aspect
of the question (examples 17, 26).
. Commands
In all the Balkan languages, the subjunctive particle can be combined with a
present tense verb form to produce an optative, which can have the force of
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.15 (203)
Evidentiality in the Balkans 
an imperative. These particles can also be used with the l-past or admirative.
In Macedonian, such usage can have the force of a reported imperative, as in
example (34), which could be a report either of a true imperative or of a second
person optative usage:
(34) Reč-e
say-ao+3sg
vo
in
‘Bastion’
B.
da
su
sum
be+pres+1sg
došo-l
come-l+masc
‘He said I should come to “The Bastion”’ (June, 2001)
The choice of tense here, however, is facultative. The speaker could also have
used a 1sg present tense (da dojdam). The l-form can also have the function
of an emphatic optative, usually in prohibitions, warnings, and curses, without
any nuance of evidentiality. Such usages appear to be archaisms connected to
ancient uses of the resultative participle (l-form).
(35) Nemoj
neg+iv
da
su
ste
be+pres+2pl
se
in
skara-l-e!
quarrel-l-pl
‘Don’t quarrel!’ (Koneski 1967:474)
In Albanian, the admirative can occur after the subjunctive marker with the
illocutionary force of an imperative, but only as a mirative or dubitative report
of someone else’s words:
(36) – Të
su
shko-sh
go-su+2sg
në
to
pazar!
market
– Të
su
shko-k-am
go-adm-pres+1sg
unë
I
në
to
pazar?!
market
– ‘Go to the market!’ – ‘[What, are you telling me that] I should go to the
market?!’
In fact, however, no such examples are attested in literature or conversation,
and the use of the admirative after të in any meaning is rare (Buchholz & Fiedler
1987:154–160; Lafe 1977).
. Negation, modality, person, tense, aspect
. Negation
In Macedonian, the l-past is preferred to the synthetic past when negation does
not involve volition or a definite point in time. Thus, for example ‘I didn’t
know’ is normally rendered ‘Ne sum znael’ rather than ‘Ne znaev’ when mak-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.16 (204)
 Victor A. Friedman
ing a general statement about something one does not know. Similarly, when
describing an involuntary act, the l-past is normally preferred:
(37) Ni-što
neg-what
da
su
ne
neg
set-am,
notice-pres+1sg
sum
be+pres+1sg
go
it+acc
skrši-l
break-l+masc
šiše-to
bottle-def
‘Without noticing anything, I broke the bottle’ (Lunt 1952:97)
This is in keeping with the sense of distance, a term introduced by Lunt
(1952:91) to describe the combination of resultative and nonconfirmative
meanings.
In Albanian, where the Indo-European distinction between indicative
negator (nuk) and modal negator (mos) is preserved, the admirative is used
with the indicative negator unless it is preceded by the modal particle të or
introduced by mos in its non-modal function as the marker of a negative
tag-question:
(38) Sigurisht
surely
nuk
neg
pas-k-a
have-adm-pres+3sg
dëgj-uar
hear-part
as-një
neg-one
qebap-xhi.
kebab-seller
‘Surely no kebab-seller has heard.’ (Rilindja 10.XII.83:13)
(39) ...të
...su
mos
neg
e
him+acc
pas-k-ish
have-adm-im+3sg
thirr-ur,
call-part
zot-i
lord-def
e
it+acc
di,
know+pres+3sg
sa
how
gjatë
long
do
fut
të
su
kishte
have+im+3sg
mbet-ur
remain-part
ashtu.
that.way
‘If she had not called him, Lord knows how long he would have stayed like
that.’ (Buchholz & Fiedler 1987:159)
(40) Th-ashë,
say-ao+1sg
mos
neg
e
it+acc
pas-k-a
have-adm-pres+3sg
ndërr-uar
change-part
vend-in
place-def+acc
e
pc
punë-s...
work-def+gen
‘I said, he hasn’t changed his work place, has he...’ (Buchholz & Fiedler
1987:160)
Although there are no particular restrictions on the co-occurrence of admi-
rativity and negation, in practice it is infrequent. In a selection of approx-
imately 200 Albanian-language news reports containing admiratives, none
were negated.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.17 (205)
Evidentiality in the Balkans 
. Nonindicative modalities and the future tense
In the Balkan languages in general, the markers of futurity also mark con-
ditional modality (with the imperfect, perfect, or pluperfect), and therefore
we shall treat these two together. Both Lunt (1952) and Kramer (1986) treat
all clauses with the Macedonian future/conditional marker ḱe as modal (see
also Friedman 1993: 268–273). Examples using the future/conditional mark-
ers with evidentials are possible albeit unusual. In Macedonian, the l-form
is unambiguously (markedly) nonconfirmative in such contexts. As with the
have-perfect, these l-form usages are of post-medieval (early modern) origin
and constitute a type of evidential subsystem. It should also be noted that ḱe
plus the synthetic imperfect is not marked as confirmative, and there is also an
inherited conditional in Macedonian that uses the particle bi plus the verbal
l-form and does not enter into evidentiality strategies. The Albanian admira-
tive always carries its nonconfirmative meaning. The following examples are
illustrative:
(41) Ljudmil
L.
reč-e
say-ao+3sg
deka
that
ḱe
fut
sme
be+pres+1pl
se
in
sretne-l-e
meet-l-pl
kaj
at
nego
him-acc
vo
in
kancelarija-ta
office-def
‘Ljudmil said that we are supposed to meet in his office’ (December, 2000)
(42) – Sega
now
ḱe
fut
gled-a
look-pres+3sg
vesti.
news
– Što?
what
– Sega
now
ḱe
fut
gleda-l
look-l+masc
vesti.
news
– ‘He’s going to watch the news now.’ – ‘What?’ – ‘[He said] he’s going to
watch the news now.’ (June, 2001)
(43) Tani
now
edhe
and
çupa-t
girls-def
do
fut
të
su
shko-k-an
go-adm-pres+3pl
në
to
shkollë!
school
‘Now girls will go to school, too!’ (Buchholz & Fiedler 1987:157)
(44) Si
how
do
fut
t-a
su-it+a
pas-k-ësha
have-adm-im+1sg
njoh-ur,
know-part
po
if
të
su
mos
neg
m-a
me+dat-it+acc
kishe
have+im+2sg
treg-uar
tell-part
ti!
you+nom
‘How would I have known it, if you had not told me!’ (Lafe 1977:479)
In (41), the speaker knew that we had agreed to assemble in Ljudmil’s of-
fice, but since we were sitting in the dean’s office the situation was awkward.
When the question arose regarding where we should be, the speaker chose to
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.18 (206)
 Victor A. Friedman
distance herself by using an l-form as an expression of uncertainty and non-
responsibility. Sentence (42) shows the use of a future evidential for emphasis.
Macedonian friends in Holland called a friend in Skopje for news about the
fighting in Aračinovo (a village 5 km east of Skopje), and the one on the tele-
phone in Holland was reporting the conversation to the others. The effect of
the repetition was neither dubitative nor mirative but rather emphatic in the
same sense as that rendered by the brackets in the English translation. Sentence
(43) is a future admirative expressing surprise. Examples (44) and (39) illus-
trate that admiratives can occur in the protasis and apodosis of conditionals.
The examples express speaker surprise.
In Macedonian, the nonconfirmative (l-past) cannot be used with a true
future reported meaning, thus, for example, (45) cannot mean ‘he will say that
he does not know’ but only ‘he will say that he did not know’.8
(45) Toj
he
ḱe
fut
reč-e
say-ao+3sg
deka
that
ne
neg
znae-l
know-l+masc
‘He will say he did/*does not know’
. Restrictions with tenses and aspects
In Macedonian, the confirmative past is a reinterpretation of the synthetic past
(aorist/imperfect) and as such is limited to it, except for the extension into the
use of the imperfect of ‘have’ as an auxiliary in the confirmative pluperfect.
The development of nonconfirmativity began in opposition to confirmativity
but then developed a life of its own and was extended to newly created verbal
forms. In terms of aspect, evidential strategies are not subject to any limitations
that are not already present in the system, but in terms of tense, even when they
have apparent present or future meaning, nonconfirmative evidentials always
carry an element of past reference. In Bulgarian, there is a correlation between
pairing for superordinate aspect and the manipulation of the third person aux-
iliary in the old perfect (unmarked past). In narratives, unpaired imperfective
verbs are more likely to be used for backgrounding and occur with the auxil-
iary, while perfective verbs will lack the auxiliary and be used for foregrounding
and advancing the narrative unless they are used to denote resultant states, in
which case the auxiliary will be present (Fielder 1995, 2002). However, these
are discourse functions not connected to evidentiality per se, since the source
of information (and speaker attitude toward the veracity of the information)
can be the same throughout the narrative.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.19 (207)
Evidentiality in the Balkans 
In Albanian, the admirative paradigms are not limited for tense but they do
contain an aspectual gap: there are no admirative forms corresponding to the
aorist, only the imperfect-based forms are used. This is contrasts with Aikhen-
vald’s generalization – insofar as the aorist is more perfective in meaning than
the imperfect – and may be related to the fact that ‘be’ and ‘have’, which are
the auxiliaries crucial to admirative formation, are more amenable to imper-
fect than to aorist meaning. Although Albanian has both aorist and imperfect
for ‘be’ and ‘have’, the aorists are rare and do not occur in all dialects.
. Evidentiality and discourse types
Evidentiality is connected with genre and manipulated as a stylistic device.
In Macedonian, the l-past is the normal tense for folk tales but the narrative
switches easily into the synthetic past for vividness. An interesting example of
the interaction of discourse genres and style is a book on Alexander the Great
by Vasil Tupurkovski, a Macedonian politician. Many Macedonians saw the
book as a nationalist ploy and criticized the excessive use of the synthetic past.
While it is acceptable to use the synthetic past for well-established historical
facts, the effect of Tupurkovski’s usage was felt to be bombastic, as if he were
trying to present himself as the direct heir of Alexander the Great. (Cf. the use
of shamanic speech described in Aikhenvald, this volume.)
Macedonian newspapers also have house styles that involve evidential
strategies. The relatively independent newspaper Dnevnik uses far more l-pasts
than the government-owned paper Nova Makedonija. Nova Makedonija – like
papers in other East European countries during the communist period – is
more likely to use synthetic pasts, or else nominalizations in order to avoid
having to make a choice that would be required by a finite verbal construction.
This strategy is also used in the Turkish press (cf. Feuillet 1996 and Fielder 2002
on Bulgarian).
Another connection between evidentiality and genre is seen in the Albanian-
language internet news reports of the Kosovo Information Center (QIK), which
later became the Council for the Defense of Human Rights and Freedoms
(KMDLNj), as well as news reports from the Albanian communist party news-
paper Zëri i popullit. In these news sources, the admirative is extremely rare and
almost always dubitative. In the Kosovar news reports from 1994–1999, the ad-
mirative was used to report accusations and other items from Serbian sources
that the authors wished to cast doubt on. After the Treaty of Kumanovo (June,
1999) accusations against Albanians from KFOR and UNMiK replaced those
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.20 (208)
 Victor A. Friedman
from Serbian sources as the objects of admirative usage. Following the rise of
the KLA (identified as ‘a previously unknown terrorist group’ in Open Media
Research Institute’s Report No. 35, Part II, 19 February, 1996), however, Koso-
var news sources would occasionally use the admirative for unvouched for but
neutral reporting:
(46) [...]
[...]
nga
by
Nënkëshill-i
branch.council-def
ynë
our
në
in
Istog,
Istog
u
in
njoft-ua-m
inform-ao-1pl
se
that
në
in
vit-in
year-def+acc
e
pc
kaluar
past
nga
from
kjo
this
komunë
district
qen-k-an
is-adm-pres+3pl
vra-rë
kill-part
edhe:
and
‘[...] we were informed by our subcommittee in Istog that last year in
that community have also been killed:’ [a list of names follows] (KMDLNj
Informata nr. 453, 12.I.99)
The connection between evidentiality and volitionality was noted in (37).
Other than the restriction noted above against using a Macedonian confir-
mative (felicitously) in subordination to a verb of explicit nonconfirmation,
there are no restrictions tied solely to the relationship of evidentiality to the
semantics of the verb.
. Strategies
Aside from obvious lexical strategies, an interesting Albanian phenomenon is
the use of a 1pl dative pronoun to increase a sense of dubitativity as in (47):
(47) Sipas
according
një
one
neokomunist-i
neocommunist-gen
serb
Serb
Kosov-a
Kosovo-def
na
us+dat
qen-k-a
be-adm-pres+3sg
“pjes-a
“piece-def
më
most
e
pc
sigurt
secure
e
pc
Serbi-së.”
Serbia-def+gen”
‘According to a Serbian neocommunist, Kosova is “the most secure part of
Serbia”.’ (Kosovo Information Center, Informatori ditor, nr. 1167, 26.IX.95)
It is worth noting that the admirative introduces the quotation and is thus a
comment on it. The narrative dative is common at the beginnings of folk tales,
but when used with the admirative it increases the nonconfirmative effect. If
the narrative dative is a device for involving the listener in the narration, then
its use with an admirative invites the listener to share the speaker’s disbelief.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.21 (209)
Evidentiality in the Balkans 
. Origins
In strictly structural terms, both Balkan Slavic and Albanian developed eviden-
tial strategies using native past tense forms, and as the contextual variant mean-
ings became invariant the strategies became grammaticalized. In Albanian, the
inverted perfect was associated with nonconfirmativity and lost its marking for
pastness and became the basis of a new set of nonconfirmative paradigms. In
Balkan Slavic, however, the simple preterite developed marking for confirma-
tivity, and the old perfect became associated with the nonconfirmative meaning
by contrast. As a result, new paradigms that developed out of the old perfect
were markedly nonconfirmative, but the old perfect itself never completely lost
its nonevidential meanings, except in regions where a new perfect replaced it
entirely (see below).
Given the fact that the Turkish evidential system was already in place by the
time the Ottomans invaded the Balkans whereas medieval Slavic documents
only hint at the possibility of usages resembling evidential strategies,9
the in-
fluence of Turkish on the Slavic development seems reasonable, although the
calquing was probably not as simple as is sometimes claimed (Friedman 1978).
Our earliest extensive Albanian data (16th century) is unclear, but the conver-
sion of the inverted perfect into a separate admirative paradigm seems to have
taken place precisely during the Turkish occupation. The absence of the ad-
mirative from Arbëresh and Arvanitika supports this, although Arbëresh does
have some presumptive uses of the perfect. The Vlah admirative is clearly based
on the Albanian and is thus a borrowing.
Macedonian evidentiality is most highly grammaticalized in the south-
west (Ohrid-Struga region), where the l-past is a marked nonconfirmative and
the have-perfects have completely replaced all other functions. As one moves
further to the southwest to the Macedonian dialects of the Korča (Albanian
Korçë)-Kostur (Greek Kastoria) region in Albania and Greece, the l-past is
completely lost and the have-perfects completely replace them. The result is
a system recapitulating that of Common Slavic and virtually devoid of eviden-
tials (see Friedman 1988). In the east, where the have-perfect did not develop,
the l-past is more likely to be used as a perfect or unmarked past (Friedman
1977:93). On the other hand, the Standard Bulgarian system is based on North-
east Bulgarian dialects centered around Tărnovo, which were also in close con-
tact with compact Turkic populations. The influence of cities in general, where
Turkish was the dominant language and where urban dialects of other lan-
guages had prestige among the rural populations – may have contributed to
the rise of grammaticalized evidential strategies as we see them in the Balkans
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.22 (210)
 Victor A. Friedman
today. During the Ottoman period, living in a town was a privilege that re-
quired special permission, and Turkish was associated not only with Islam and
the Ottoman state but also with urbanity and high culture in general. This
attitude has persisted among long-established town-dwellers.
At the same time, however, the widespread phenomenon of perfects de-
veloping into nonconfirmative evidentials (and a similar but not as widespread
phenomenon of synthetic pasts developing into confirmatives) suggests a typo-
logical universal tendency. The connection between a perfect’s focus on result
and the preceding act being treated as unwitnessed (sensu largo) goes back to
the Sanskrit grammarians, although it is noteworthy that many of the varied
languages where the strategy developed had been in contact with some form of
Turkic (Friedman 1978:108). In the end, except for obvious cases like Vlah, we
must allow for the effect of contact reinforcing typological tendencies.
. Cultural Attitudes
Aside from the conventionalized attitudes and dialectal differences described
above, Macedonians from the southwestern town of Bitola, which historically
had a large Aromanian population, are much more likely to use the synthetic
past where Macedonians from other western areas would use a nonconfirma-
tive l-form.10
This is said to be due to the influence of the local Aromanian di-
alects, which like most other Vlah dialects, has only an aspectual perfect/aorist
and imperfect distinction with no evidential nuances or strategies.
A point worth considering is the fact that speakers of Turkic and Balkan
Slavic languages have reported feeling the absence of a nonconfirmative verb
form when speaking English. Although adverbs such as apparently carry the
same type of distancing semantics lexically, their use is felt to be gross and
intrusive compared to selecting a verb form. I have felt this same lack myself
when I have returned to the US after spending several months in Macedonia.
Dreams are normally reported in the confirmative, since the speaker has
witnessed them. (In Macedonian, dreams are described as ‘seen’.) However, the
l-past can be used if the speaker wishes to create a sense of distance. Example
(48) illustrates clearly how confirmative and nonconfirmative are manipulated
in reporting a dream:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.23 (211)
Evidentiality in the Balkans 
(48) Ne
neg
zna-m
know-pres+1sg
kolku
how.much
spi-e-v,
sleep-im-1sg
no
but
koga
when
se
in
razbud-i-v
awaken-ao-1sg
si
self+dat
spomn-a-v
remember-ao-1sg
deka
that
sum
be+pres+1sg
sonuva-l.
dream-l+masc
Vid-o-v
see-ao-1sg
deka
that
jas
I
ne
neg
sum
be+pres+1sg
bi-l
be-l+masc
jas,
I
no
but
edn-o
one-n
dete
child
bez
without
braḱa
brothers
i
and
rodnin-i.
relative-pl
B-e-v
be-im-1sg
sam
alone
so
with
majka
mother
mi,
me+dat
meǵu
among
tuǵi
foreign
luǵe
people
i
and
samo
only
od-e-vme
go-im-1pl
peški.
on.foot
‘I don’t know how long I slept, but when I awoke I remembered that I had
dreamt. I saw that I was not I but a child without brothers and relatives.
I was alone with my mother, among strangers, and we just kept walking
and walking.’ (Vocis 1999:110)
In a society where people are aware that television is used as a propaganda
device and that the same footage is used for different news stories, reports of
news seen on television depend on the trust of the reporter. As one friend put it:
(49) Nad
above
Kumanovo
K.
puk-a-a
shoot-im-3pl
ili
or
puka-l-e,
shoot-l-pl
zavis-i
depend-pres+3sg
dali
q
veruv-a-š
believe-pres-2sg
vo
in
televizijsk-i
television-pl
slik-i
picture-pl
ili
or
ne.
neg
‘Above Kumanovo they were shooting or they were allegedly shooting, it
depends whether you believe television pictures or not.’ (June, 2001)
. Conclusion
There is a fundamental difference between the grammaticalized evidential
strategies of the Balkans and adjacent areas and the evidential markers of North
and South America, Tibeto-Burman, and Papua-New Guinea. However, the
Balkan phenomena go beyond contextual uses of e.g. the German subjunctive,
conditionals in French, Hungarian, or Japanese, English modals, etc. Gram-
maticalized Balkan evidential strategies can be divided into two major types:
modal – which are all of Aikhenvald’s A2 type – and past tense. The Daco-
Romanian presumptive mood and the Novo Selo probabilitive mood look
very much like modal strategies, but unlike them, these moods have no other
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.24 (212)
 Victor A. Friedman
uses and so are arguably evidential modals. Within past tense we can distin-
guish between Aikhenvald’s A1 and A2 systems i.e. those that approximate
witnessed/nonwitnessed and those that approximate non-firsthand/other. The
presence of A1 implies the presence of A2, but not vice versa. Albanian and
South Danubian Romance (Aromanian and Megleno-Romanian) are limited
to A2 systems, whereas Balkan Slavic developed an A1 system out of which A2
oppositions arose. This suggests that there are two different paths for gram-
maticalizing evidentials – a confirmative and a nonconfirmative. Although the
nonconfirmative meanings are arguably the more salient (in Turkic languages –
see Johanson, this volume – this is the meaning that keeps surfacing using dif-
ferent participial forms), the fact that in most of Balkan Slavic the perfect never
made the complete transition found in Albanian whereas the simple preterites
are markedly confirmative argues that when marked confirmativity develops
in a system, marked nonconfirmativity will arise, but if nonconfirmativity de-
velops first, confirmativity does not necessarily follow. Although grammatical-
ized strategies of past tense origin are associated with perfects and perfectivity
(see also Section 5), the absence of admirative aorists in Albanian suggests that
the association of perfects with resultant states (which are more amenable to
durational, i.e. imperfect, meaning) is a competing factor.
Finally, there is the issue of literal source of information versus the speaker’s
attitude to the information. In a sense, it is always the speaker’s ‘mediation’
(Guentchéva 1996) that determines the choice of verb form and thus the dif-
ference between ‘source of information’ and ‘speaker attitude’ is a continuum.
Nonetheless, just as tense/aspect/mood categories can be described as discrete
entities while overlapping in actual usage, so, too, evidentiality involves a com-
plex of meanings from extensions of tense/aspect/mood to true evidentials. The
relevant verbal categories of the Balkan languages – of which Macedonian and
Albanian represent basic types – consitute a distinct type that can be called the
‘grammaticalized strategy’, located between tense/aspect/mood and true evi-
dentiality. The effect is that of a true evidential, and the choices are obligatory,
but the underlying semantics are a step removed from literal evidence.
Notes
* The research for this chapter was supported in part by a Grant for East European Studies
from the American Council of Learned Societies, financed in part by the National Endow-
ment for the Humanities and the Ford Foundation (2000–2001) and a grant from the Na-
tional Endowment for the Humanities (2001, Reference FA-36517-01). I also wish to thank
the International Research and Exchanges Board for a 1992 travel grant which enabled me
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.25 (213)
Evidentiality in the Balkans 
to conduct fieldwork on Aromanian (Vlah) with Dr. Marjan Markoviḱ of the University in
Skopje. I am grateful to Marjan’s uncle, Tomislav Manovski/Toma Mani, as well as Vasilie
Balukoski/Silja Baljuk, Andon Labrovski/Ndona Ljabru, and Kosta Panovski/Koči Pani for
their consultation.
. I am indebted to César Montoliu for bringing this to my attention. All examples come
from natural conversation or texts unless a source is given. Examples from conversation are
followed by the month and year they were recorded. Translations are mine. Citations are
given after the translations for the sake of convenience. In some examples, the preceding
material which sets the context will be given in the English gloss, while only the relevant
material will be given in the original. In Macedonian interlinear glosses, stem vowels are
segmented for the present and the synthetic pasts but not the (unmarked) l-pasts. Albanian
textual examples reflect the spelling inconsistencies of the originals. Newspaper sources are
given in italics followed by day.month.year:page and are not listed in the references.
. In Friedman (1981:24), I argued: ‘[W]hen speakers choose admirative forms [in Alba-
nian] they are either refraining from vouching for the truth of the assertion by expressing
doubt, irony, or by attributing the statement to someone else’s words, or they are expressing
the fact that at some time in the past they did not expect the statement to be true and that
they are therefore surprised.’ This same type of argument for the connection between sur-
prise and other types of nonconfirmative meanings was subsequently adduced for languages
such as Turkish and Japanese.
. Although (3), (4), (6), and (7) are all mirative, these forms can all express the entire
complex of nonconfirmative meanings (see §2.2.2).
. The former Serbo-Croatian is said to use the simple preterite for a single term system
of the type ‘eyewitness/everything else’ (Samilov 1957). All Slavic languages have a superor-
dinate aspectual opposition perfective/imperfective inherent in the stem. The subordinate
aorist/imperfect opposition remains only in South Slavic (except Slovene) and Lusatian.
. The native grammatical term for this set of paradigms is habitore from habi ‘surprise’.
. In the mediopassive, ‘be’ replaces ‘have’ as the auxiliary.
. Cf. also examples (8, 9, 10).
. As with (27), apparent present meaning is acceptable as a dubitative repetition.
. Van Wijk (1933:243) cites as possible evidence contrasting uses of the perfect and aorist
to evaluate reports in the aorist in the oldest Slavic Paterikon.
. It is worth noting that Aromanian was also an important contact language in the Korča-
Kostur region during much of the Ottoman period and Greek was the language of literacy
and religion for Christians. On the other hand, Turkish was especially important in Ohrid.
References
Aronson, H. I. (1967). The Grammatical Categories of the Indicative in the Contemporary
Bulgarian Literary Language. In To Honor Roman Jakobson, Vol. 1 (pp. 82–98). The
Hague: Mouton.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.26 (214)
 Victor A. Friedman
—— (1991). Towards a Typology of Verbal Categories. In L. R. Waugh & S. Rudy (Eds.), New
Vistas in Grammar: Invariance and Variation (pp. 113–131). Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Buchholz, O., & Fiedler, W. (1987). Albanische Grammatik. Leipzig: Verlag Enziklopädie.
Dankoff, R. (Ed. and transl. with Kelly, J.). (1982). Mahmud al-Kāšğarı̄, Compendium of the
Turkic Dialects (Dı̄wān luğāt at-Turk), Part I. Cambridge: Tekin
Demiraj, S. (1971). Habitorja dhe mosha e saj. [The admirative and its antiquity.] Studime
filologjike, 8(3), 31–39.
Dozon, A. (1879). Manuel de la langue chkipe ou albanaise. Paris: Ernest Leroux.
Feuillet, J. (1996). Réflexions sur les valeurs du médiatif. In Z. Guentchéva (Ed.),
L’énonciation médiastisée (pp. 71–86). Louvain: Peeters.
Fielder, G. E. (1995). Narrative Perspective and the Bulgarian l-Participle. Slavic and East
European Journal, 39, 585–600.
—— (2002). Questioning the Dominant Paradigm: An Alternative View of the
Grammaticalization of the Bulgarian Evidential. In V. A. Friedman & D. L. Dyer
Bloomington (Eds.), Of All the Slavs, My Favorites: Studies in South Slavic and Balkan
Linguistics in Honor of Howard I. Aronson on the Occasion of his 66th Birthday
Bloomington (pp. 171–201).
—— (forthcoming). The Perfect in Eastern Macedonian Dialects. Studies in Macedonian
Language, Literature and Culture, V. S. Antiḱ. Skopje: University of Skopje.
Friedman, V. A. (1977). The Grammatical Categories of the Macedonian Indicative.
Columbus: Slavica.
—— (1978). On the Semantic and Morphological Influence of Turkish on Balkan Slavic. In
D. Farkas, W. Jacobsen, & K. Todrys (Eds.), Papers from the Fourteenth Regional Meeting:
Chicago Linguistic Society (pp. 108–118). Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society.
—— (1981). Admirativity and Confirmativity. Zeitschrift für Balkanologie, 17(1), 12–28.
—— (1982). Reportedness in Bulgarian: Category or Stylistic Variant? International Journal
of Slavic Linguistics and Poetics, 25/26, 149–63.
—— (1986). Evidentiality in the Balkans: Macedonian, Bulgarian, and Albanian. In
J. Nichols & W. Chafe (Eds.), Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology (pp.
168–187). Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
—— (1988). Morphological Innovation and Semantic Shift in Macedonian. Zeitschrift für
Balkanologie, 24(1), 34–41.
—— (1993). Macedonian. In B. Comrie & G. Corbett (Eds.), The Slavonic Languages (pp.
249–305). London: Routledge.
—— (1994). Surprise! Surprise! Arumanian Has Had an Admirative! Indiana Slavic Studies,
7, 79–89.
—— (2000). Confirmative/Nonconfirmative in Balkan Slavic, Balkan Romance, and
Albanian with Additional Observations on Turkish, Romani, Georgian, and Lak. In
B. Utas & L. Johanson (Eds.), Evidentials in Turkic, Iranian and Neighbouring Languages
(pp. 329–366). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Guentchéva, Z. (1996). Le médiatif en bulgare. In Z. Guentchéva (Ed.), L’énonciation
médiatisée (pp. 49–70). Louvain: Peeters.
Jacobsen, W. H. (1964). A Grammar of the Washo Language. Ph.D. dissertion. University of
California, Berkeley.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.27 (215)
Evidentiality in the Balkans 
—— (1986). The Heterogeneity of Evidentials in Makah. In J. Nichols & W. Chafe (Eds.),
Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology (pp. 3–28). Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Jakobson, R. (1957/1971). Shifters, Verbal Categories, and the Russian Verb. In Selected
Writings 2: Word and Language (pp. 130–137). The Hague: Mouton.
Koneski, B. (1967). Gramatika na makedonskiot literaturen jazik. Skopje: Kultura.
Konstantinov, A. (1895/1973). Baj Ganjo. Sofija: Penčo V. Spasov/Bălgarski pisatel.
Kostov, K. (1973). Zur Bedeutung des Zigeunerischen für die Erforschung Grammatischer
Interferenzerscheinungen. Balkansko ezikoznanie, 16(2), 99–113.
Kramer, C. E. (1986). Analytic Modality in Macedonian. München: Otto Sagner Verlag.
Kriareas, E. (1995). Neo Elliniko Leksiko. [Modern Greek Dictionary.] Athens: Ekdhoti Ath-
inon.
Krle, R. (1972). Izbor. [Selected works.] Skopje: Makedonska kniga.
Lafe, E. (1977). De l’admiratif albanais et de quelques-unes des ses formes. In H. M. Ölberg
(Ed.), Akten des Internationalen albanologischen Kolloquiums (pp. 471–483). Innsbruck:
Universität Innsbruck.
Lunt, H. (1952). A Grammar of the Macedonian Literary Language. Skopje: Državno
knigoizdatelstvo.
Matras, Y. (1995). Verb Evidentials and their Discourse Functions in Vlach Romani Nar-
ratvies. In Y. Matras (Ed.), Romani in Contact: The History, Structure, and Sociology of a
Language (pp. 95–123). Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Mindak, J. (1980). Mbi disa mjete gjuhësore për të shprehur kuptimin e pasigurisë dhe
të habisë në konskruktet foljore të gjuhës shqipe dhe të gjuhës maqedonase. [On
some linguistic means for expressing the concept of uncertainty and surprise in
verbal constructions in Albanian and Macedonian.] In I. Ajeti et al. (Eds.), Seminari
Ndërkombëtar për Gjuhën, Letërsinë dhe Kulturën Shqiptare [International Seminar for
Albanian Language Literature and Culture] Vol. 7 (pp. 229–234). Prishtina: Universiteti
i Kosovës.
Minova-Ǵurkova, L. (1984). Rešeno e...beše rešeno...: Dnevna jazična kritika. [It is/has
been decided...it was/had been decided: Daily linguistic critique.] Nova Makedonija
19.XII.84.11.
Mladenov, M. (1969). Govorăt na Novo Selo Vidinsko. [The dialect of Novo Selo in the Vidin
region.] Sofia: BAN.
Samilov, M. (1957). The Witnessed Past in Serbo-Croatian. Canadian Slavonic Papers, 2,
98–105.
Tekin, T. (1968). A Grammar of Orkhon Turkic. Bloomington: Indiana University.
van Wijk, N. (1933). De l’emploi du parfait et de l’aoriste en vieux-slave. Revue des Études
Slaves, 13, 242–244.
Varol, M.-C. (2001). Calques morphosyntaxiques du turc en judéo-espagnol: mécanismes
et limites. In A. Donabédian (Ed.), Faits de Langues: Langues de diaspora (pp. 85–99).
Paris: Ophrys.
Vocis, Petros G. (Transl. Vasko Karadža). (1999). Makedončeto. [The little Macedonian boy.]
Skopje: Makedonsko sonce.
Weigand, G. (1923–1924). The Admirative in Bulgarian. The Slavonic Review, 2, 567–568.
Xoxa, D. (transl.) (1975). Baj Gano. Prishtina: Rilindja.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.28 (216)
 Victor A. Friedman
Appendix: The Balkan Peninsula
This is a freehand rendition. Only towns and regions relevant to the text are
noted.
A note on terminology and language distribution
In the context of the Balkans, even the term Balkans is disputed and politi-
cized, to say nothing of what is counted as a language and where it is spoken.
After the break-up of the SFR Yugoslavia, Croatia and Slovenia emphatically
rejected being counted as part of the Balkans. In 1923, however, parts of what
is today Slovenia were labeled Balkanic Italy (Encyclopedia Brittanica). In a
region where the ideological formula language=nation=territory=state contin-
ues to influence both politics and scholarship, on the one hand, and where, on
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.29 (217)
Evidentiality in the Balkans 
the other hand, multilingualism and ethnolinguistic distributional complexity
are both interlocking and contested, a map that tries to place language labels
over geographical space would be either misleading or unreadable. I am there-
fore listing here the languages of the region referred to in this chapter with an
indication of the status and geographic distribution of each. All languages la-
beled official are majority languages in their nation-states. All minority lan-
guages except Judezmo are also majority languages at some administrative level
ranging from sizable districts to villages.
Albanian – The official language of Albania, also spoken by majorities
in adjacent parts of southern Montenegro, most of Kosovo, three districts in
southwestern Serbia at the Macedonian border, and parts of western Macedo-
nia. Pre-twentieth century Albanian enclaves survive in Greece, Turkey, Bul-
garia, Romania, Ukraine, Italy, and in the village of Arbanassi near Zadar.
Greek – The official language of Greece, also spoken by a minority in south-
ern Albania, an enclave in Istanbul, and by Sarakatsani (Karakachani) in Mace-
donia and Bulgaria as well as remnant populations in Romania and the former
Soviet Union (many of whom have left for Greece in recent years).
Romanian (=Daco-Romanian) – Official language of Romania and Mol-
dova, also spoken in eastern Serbia, northern Bulgaria, and Ukraine.
Aromanian (=Vlah) – Spoken in southern Albania, northern Greece, east-
ern and western Macedonia, and southwestern Bulgaria as well as by immi-
grants in Romania.
Megleno-Romanian (=Vlah) – Spoken in a few villages in southeastern
Macedonia and adjacent parts of Greece (the Meglen). The largest village was
Muslim and ended up in Greece after World War One, so the inhabitants (ex-
cept for one family that converted to Christianity) were all deported to Turkey
as part of the exchange of populations in the 1920s. Megleno-Romanian and
Aromanian are separate languages, but Megleno-Romanians do not have an
ethnic consciousness separate from Aromanians and use the ethnonym Vla (<
Vlah), which is the Slavic term for Aromanians and Megleno-Romanians, and,
in some contexts, also Daco-Romanians.
Judezmo – Descended from the Spanish spoken by Jews expelled from
Spain in 1492, sometimes also called Ladino, although among specialists this
label is reserved for a form of literary Judezmo that calques Hebrew word for
word. Spoken by sizable Jewish populations in towns throughout the former
Ottoman Empire, most speakers were murdered by the Nazis and their collabo-
rators during World War II. Enclaves survive throughout the Balkans, although
most survivors have emigrated to Israel.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:29/01/2003; 13:43 F: TSL5408.tex / p.30 (218)
 Victor A. Friedman
Bulgarian – The official language of Bulgaria, officially recognized as the
majority language in two districts in Serbia, a significant minority language in
northeastern Greece and in European Turkey, and also spoken by enclaves in
Romania, Moldova, and Ukraine. According to the 1994 Macedonian census,
there are 1,682 Bulgarians in Macedonia. Bulgarian linguists, however, claim
that all the Slavic dialects of Turkey, Greece, Macedonia, Albania and eastern
Serbia belong to Bulgarian. In earlier works, these claims were apparently based
on the isogloss for the postposed definite article, but the most recent Bulgarian
dialectological atlas (2002), excludes Kosovo according to its political bound-
aries and is thus not, in this respect, based on any sort of linguistic criterion.
Needless to say, Serbs and Macedonians do not consider their dialects to be
Bulgarian, nor do most Slavic linguists outside of Bulgaria.
Serbian – The South Slavic continuum can be divided, for heuristic pur-
poses with a basis in historical phonological, morphological, and syntactic
developments, into East South Slavic (Macedonian and Bulgarian) and West
South Slavic (Slovenian and the former Serbo-Croatian, now sometimes re-
ferred to as Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian). All those dialects south of Slovenian,
north of Macedonian, and west of Bulgarian can thus be classified as South-
ern West South Slavic (SWSS). The differentiation of SWSS dialects is based on
geographic distribution rather than ethnicity. For the purposes of Balkan lin-
guistics in general, however, and this paper in particular, only Serbian dialects
are relevant. Serbian is the official language of Serbia and Montenegro and the
Republika Srpska of Bosnia-Hercegovina. It is also spoken in Macedonia, by
a small minority in Albania, by once sizable but now remnant populations in
Kosovo and Croatia, and enclaves in Romania, Austria, and Hungary.
Macedonian – the official language of the Republic of Macedonia, spoken
by minorities in eastern Albania, northern Greece, and southwestern Bulgaria.
The dialects of the Muslim Gorans of southwestern Kosovo and adjacent Alba-
nia are transitional between Serbian and Macedonian. They were classed with
Serbian until the late 1980’s and are now classed with Macedonian.
Romani – Spoken throughout the Balkans and beyond.
Turkish – The official language of Turkey, spoken by sizable minorities in
eastern Bulgaria, northeastern Greece, Macedonia, Kosovo, as well as urban
remnants in Albania. The closely related Gagauz is spoken by Christians in
Bulgaria, Romania, Moldova, and Ukraine.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:23/12/2002; 15:43 F: TSL5409.tex / p.1 (219)
Chapter 9
Evidentiality in Yukaghir
Elena Maslova
. Introduction1
The Yukaghir languages, Kolyma (Southern) and Tundra (Northern) Yukaghir,
are spoken in three small multi-lingual villages in the Saha (Yakut) Republic
(in northeast Russia). Both varieties have an evidential suffix (-l’el-) signalling
that a situation was not witnessed by the speaker (Jochelson 1905:400–401;
Krejnovich 1982:140–144), but inferred on the basis of indirect evidence. The
combination of this suffix with the Future marker (-te-) expresses hypothetical
meaning. Krejnovich cites his Kolyma Yukaghir consultant (1) demonstrating
these basic distinctions:
(1) a. tudel qodo-j ‘He is lying [if we see a person lying]’
b. tudel qodo-l’el ‘He has lain [if we see traces of a hunter’s lying on the
snow and know exactly whose traces they are]’
c. tudel qodo-l’el-te-l ‘Probably, it was he who has lain [if we are not sure
that these are his traces]’ (Krejnovich 1982:140)
The Evidentiality systems in the Yukaghir languages are essentially the same;
for the reasons of space, it is impossible to illustrate each point for both lan-
guages in this chapter. In absence of explicit indications to the contrary, the
prose description below covers both Yukaghir languages, but is exemplified by
Kolyma Yukaghir data. All points of divergence are explicitly mentioned and
illustrated by Tundra Yukaghir examples.
This chapter is based on published descriptions (Jochelson 1905; Kre-
jnovich 1958, 1982); text corpora (Jochelson 1900; Nikolaeva 1988; Nikolaeva
1997; Maslova 2001); and my own field records and informal observations dur-
ing two field trips (1987, 1992). It should be stressed that the most essential
source of information for a study of an essentially deictic category, i.e. natu-
rally occurring dialogues, is virtually non-existent in this corpus. At present,
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:23/12/2002; 15:43 F: TSL5409.tex / p.2 (220)
 Elena Maslova
the Yukaghir languages are scarcely used for everyday communication, which
makes recording natural dialogue virtually impossible.2
As a result, the present
study relies heavily on other types of evidence to infer information about the
basic deictic usage of the Evidential; this includes conversations within narra-
tives, which are most often rendered in the form of direct speech dialogues;
short narratives relating episodes of the narrator’s own life; and native speak-
ers’ comments. Other (non-deictic) meanings associated with the category of
evidentiality are described on the basis of the entire corpus of available texts.
. An overview of verb inflection
The Yukaghir verb has the following morphological structure (“S” stands for
stem):
(2) Polarity-Mood-S-Aspect-Evidentiality-Number-Tense-Clause.Type/Person
There are two overt polarity markers, Negative (el-) and Affirmative (me-). The
absence of an overt polarity marker signifies affirmative.
The Mood position distinguishes Irrealis (et- ∼ ot-) and Realis (no overt
marking). The Irrealis marker is incompatible with the Future suffix (-t(e)-),
which is the only overt morpheme that can fill the Tense position. These mor-
phemes thus constitute a single Tense/Mood category with three meanings:
Realis (non-Future), Future, and Irrealis, e.g.:
(3) a. a:-m ‘s/he made/has made’
b. a:-te-m ‘s/he will make’
c. m-at-a:-m ‘s/he would make (if...)’; ‘s/he might make’
There is no obligatory past vs. present distinction (see §4.1 on temporal inter-
pretation of non-Future forms).
The Evidentiality position class comprises two overt suffixes, Inferen-
tial (-l’el-) and Prospective (-moži-);3
these are opposed to unmarked Direct
form, e.g.:
(4) a. mid’-u-m ‘s/he took/has taken (I saw it)’
b. mil-l’el-u-m ‘s/he took/has taken (I did not see it)’
c. min-moži-m ‘(then) s/he is going to take (as a consequence of some-
thing else)’
The Prospective is incompatible with overt Tense/Mood markers and thus
could be analyzed as a member of the Tense/Mood category. Formally, the anal-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:23/12/2002; 15:43 F: TSL5409.tex / p.3 (221)
Evidentiality in Yukaghir 
ysis adopted here is justified by position class considerations: the Prospective
takes the same linear position as the Inferential (before the Plural marker),
whereas the Future follows the Plural marker, cf.:
(5) a. amde-moži-]i ‘(then) (they) will/are going to die’
b. amde-]i-te-j ‘(they) will die’
For semantic motivations of this analysis, see Section 5.
The Aspect position class comprises two suffixes: general Imperfective
(-nu-) and Habitual (-nun- ∼ -nunnu-), e.g.:
(6) a. juö-m ‘s/he looked, saw’
b. juö-nu-m ‘s/he is/was looking; looks/looked (always, regularly)’
c. juö-nunnu-m ‘s/he used to look; always looks now (in contrast with
the past)’
In Tundra Yukaghir, the suffix -nu- expresses only progressive meaning, e.g.
wie-nu-m ‘s/he is/was making’ vs. wie-nun-u-m ‘s/he makes, used to make.’
The clause type position subsumes markers of illocution, transitivity, and
information packaging structure (the location of grammatical Focus) in finite
clauses, as well as markers of various sub-types of non-finite clauses (medial,
relative, etc.). The verb agrees with the subject in person and number. The
Number position serves to distinguish singular and plural third person subjects
(cf. (5)) and addressees of Imperative. Other person/number distinctions are
expressed in the final structural position; these markers are present only if the
subject is not marked as grammatical Focus.
Transitive and intransitive verbs have differentclause type/person paradigms.
The Inferential suffix triggers two deviations from regular agreement patterns.
First, the 3sg Inferential form of intransitive verbs follows the transitive agree-
ment pattern, as in (7b), or simply lacks overt clause type/person marker, as in
(7c); the corresponding Direct form is shown in (7a).
(7) a. sög-i enter-intr:3sg
b. söw-l’el-u-m enter-infr-04
-tr:3sg
c. söw-l’el enter-infr(3sg)
Conversely, the first person Inferential forms of transitive verbs follow intran-
sitive agreement pattern (Krejnovich 1982:143).
(8) a. t’ine chop(tr:1sg)
b. t’ine-l’el-d’e chop-infr-intr:1sg
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:23/12/2002; 15:43 F: TSL5409.tex / p.4 (222)
 Elena Maslova
(9) a. t’ine-j chop-tr:1pl
b. t’ine-l’el-d’el’i chop-infr-intr:1pl
These deviations may have a phonological motivation, since the 3sg intransi-
tive and 1pl transitive clause type/person markers are formally (and probably
etymologically) identical (-j/-i), which means that functionally opposite devi-
ations occur in identical phonological contexts. On the other hand, the switch
to intransitive agreement in the first person forms correlates with a certain de-
crease in semantic transitivity triggered by the Inferential marking (see Section
5.2 on the semantics of first person Inferential forms).
. The category of evidentiality
. Eyewitness vs. noneyewitness
The core of the Evidentiality system is formed by the morphological opposi-
tion between Direct Realis and Inferential forms. Two major classes of contexts
which require the Inferential marking are inference from visible traces of the
situation and reported information, or hearsay, e.g.:
(10) a. ta]
that
me:me:
bear
naha:
very
motlorqo-j-ben=]o:-l’el
thin-attr-nr=cop-infr(intr:3sg)
‘That bear was very thin’ [as can be seen from his traces] (N54:10)5
b. mieste-ge
place-loc
ala]cin
Alanchin
a]il’-ge
mouth-loc
nodo
bird
nojdi:-t
watch-ss:ipfv
modo-l’el-]i.
sit-infr-3pl:intr
‘[As people who once roamed together with him in their youth told,]
they were sitting at a place called Alanchin mouth, watching for birds.’
(K4:72–73)
Thus, the Yukaghir Direct vs. Inferential distinction instantiates the A1 Eviden-
tiality system, as defined in Chapter 1 of this volume (eyewitness vs. noneye-
witness). Similar to other languages of this type (cf. (Dixon, this volume) on
Jarawara), the concept of ‘eyewitness’ depends on the nature of the situation.
In particular, it does not necessarily imply visual evidence: the situation is con-
ceived of as witnessed if it is perceived by means of the appropriate sense, cf.
the contrasting forms in the following example:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:23/12/2002; 15:43 F: TSL5409.tex / p.5 (223)
Evidentiality in Yukaghir 
(11) [...] aji:-l’el-u-m,
shoot-infr-0-tr:3
šar
something
qoha-s’
burst-intr:3sg
[...]
[...] ‘(then) he shot, something burst’ [...] [During a hunting trip, the
speaker hears the sound of shot (cf. the second clause) and infers that his
fellow hunter (whom he cannot see) made a shot.]
This example is particularly interesting since the same piece of auditory sen-
sory evidence (the speaker hears the shot) is conceived of as direct evidence
(eyewitness) for one situation, but as the basis of inference (noneyewitness) for
the other. The contrast is determined by the fact that the verb qoha(j)- ‘burst’
signifies a sound, i.e. a situation which can only be perceived by hearing, which
is not the case for the situation of shooting.6
Thus, the Inferential form always invokes two situations, the situation be-
ing described (S) and the situation that serves as the source of information
(E for ‘evidence’). E may, but need not, be explicitly mentioned, cf. (10) and
(11), but it must be distinct from S. The eyewitness (Direct) term signifies
that S is described on the basis of direct observation of S, i.e. S and E are not
distinguished.
. Deferred evidence
One of the most striking features of the Yukaghir Evidentiality is an extremely
broad semantic domain of the noneyewitness term: the Inferential form is used
even if the link between a witnessed state of affairs (E) and the situation that
brought it about (S) is most straightforward and ‘trivial’. One of the most
telling natural examples is given by Krejnovich: a Yukaghir friend of his saw
him again after twenty-two years and said:
tundra yukaghir
(12) Krejnowit’
Krejnovich
me-lugu-mu-l’en’
aff-old-inch-infr:intr:3sg
me-köl-mu-l’en’
aff-slim-inch-infr:intr:3sg
‘Krejnovich has grown old and slim (infr)’ (Krejnovich 1982:141)
The Inferential forms signal that the speaker did not witness the process of
Krejnovich’s growing older and slimmer, but only saw the result, i.e. the state of
his being old and slim (after he had seen him being younger and fatter before).
Some similar examples from Kolyma Yukaghir:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:23/12/2002; 15:43 F: TSL5409.tex / p.6 (224)
 Elena Maslova
(13) a. emej=ta]pe
mother=asc
kel-]i,
come-3pl:intr
lebejdi:-le
berries-acc
ningo:
lots.of
šaqal’e-š-l’el-]a:
gather-caus-infr-3pl:tr
‘Our mother and her companions came, they had gathered a lot of
berries’ [The speaker saw the berries when they came.] (K5:103)
b. mit-in
1pl-dat
pugedan’d’e
tzar
šörile-lek
letter-foc
jal-l’el-mele...
send-infr-of:3sg
‘The tzar has sent us a letter ...’ [which is already received] (K1:26)
Thus, the Inferential can be used to signal that the speaker did not witness the
event as it was going on, even if she has firsthand eyewitness evidence of that
event by the time of speech. Although examples like (12)–(13) could be sub-
sumed under the notion of inference from visible traces, they are clearly dis-
tinct from genuine instances of (non-trivial) inference, as in (11a). In such ex-
amples, the Inferential suffix appears to express deferred evidence meaning (see
(de Reuse, this volume) on past deferred evidence marker in Western Apache),
i.e. it signals just that the information on the situation was obtained after
the situation had taken place, independently of the source of this information
(eyewitness vs. noneyewitness).
The deferred evidence semantics is particularly clear in descriptions
of a speaker’s own actions, which cannot be accounted for in terms of
inference, e.g.:
(14) a. ataq-un
two-at
kun’il-get
ten-abl
ningo:
lots.of
i:die-l’el-d’i:l’i
catch-infr-intr:1pl
‘It turned out that we had caught more than twenty’ [The speaker
participated in fishing, yet the fish was counted only afterwards.]
(K5:92)
b. ta:
there
ejre-t
walk-ss:ipfv
met
I
me:me:
bear
abut
lair
a]il’-ge
inlet-loc
ta:
there
cha:j-e
tea-acc
o:ža:-l’el-d’e
drink-infr-intr:1sg
‘While walking there, I drank tea near the lair of a bear’ [The speaker
noticed the lair later.]
On the other hand, examples like (11), where situations S and E are simulta-
neous, show that the Inferential can also express purely noneyewitness mean-
ing. Thus, the noneyewitness and deferred evidence meanings are expressed
by means of the same grammatical form, which is opposed to the unmarked
‘simultaneous eyewitness’ form.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:23/12/2002; 15:43 F: TSL5409.tex / p.7 (225)
Evidentiality in Yukaghir 
. Prospective vs. direct future
The Prospective form encodes a situation in the future (S) viewed as a conse-
quence of an earlier situation (E), e.g.:
(15) a. met
I
qollume
soon
ti]
this
lebie-get
earth-abl
kewe-j-moži:-je
go-pfv-prsp-intr:1sg
‘I am to leave this earth soon’ [since I am very old]
b. met
I
albo:-je,
lose-intr:3sg
met
I
uke-j-moži:-je
go.out-pfv-prsp-intr:3sg
‘I have lost, (this means that) I have to go out’ (N21:28)
Thus, the Prospective resembles the Inferential in that it implicitly refers to an
additional situation (E), which serves as the source of information on S. This
semantic feature determines the semantic contrast between the Prospective and
the Direct Future, which expresses a hypothesis about the future without any
reference to the evidence on which this hypothesis is based. The semantics of
this opposition is thus parallel to the Inferentialvs. Direct Realis distinction, cf.:
(16) [–Future] [+Future]
[+Evidential] Inferential Prospective
[–Evidential] Direct Realis Direct Future
The eyewitness vs. noneyewitness distinction is neutralized in the Future con-
texts.
To sum up, the morphological category of Evidentiality subsumes two in-
terrelated semantic parameters, the presence of a source of information (E) dis-
tinct from the situation being described (S) and relative tense of S with regard
to E, as summarized in the following scheme:
(17) Source of Information Relative Time of Evidence
Direct eyewitness (E = S) simultaneous evidence
Inferential noneyewitness deferred evidence (tE > tS)
Prospective (noneyewitness) anterior evidence (tE < tS)
The relative time of evidence correlates with absolute tense: simultaneous and
deferred evidence meanings are limited to non-future situations, anterior evi-
dence, to future situations.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:23/12/2002; 15:43 F: TSL5409.tex / p.8 (226)
 Elena Maslova
. Interaction with other grammatical categories
. Tense and aspect
Since the correlation between Evidentiality and the morphological category of
Tense (Future vs. non-Future) is described in §3.3, this section focuses on the
past vs. present interpretation of non-Future forms, which, to a certain extent,
depends on their Evidential semantics.
In order to describe this dependency, it is necessary to distinguish three
aspectual types of predicates (Comrie 1976:25):
(18) Perfective predicates: telic verbs without Imperfective markers.
Imperfective predicates:
Habitual: verbs marked for habitual/generic meaning and predicates
signifying stable properties.
Continuous: atelic verbs and telic verbs marked for progressive
meaning.
The temporal semantics of non-Future forms is summarized in (19):
(19) Direct Realis Inferential
Perfective: past past
Continuous: past/present past
Habitual: past/present past/present
The Inferential form entails past time reference for any non-habitual predicate
(as shown by virtually all examples in this paper), whereas the Direct Realis
form allows present interpretation of any Imperfective predicate, cf. (1a) and
(6). Thus, the Direct Realis and Inferential forms differ only with regard to
temporal interpretation of continuous predicates. This distinction seems to be
determined by the deferred evidence meaning of the Inferential suffix: if the
situation being described precedes the time of evidence, and the evidence is
available at the time of speech, then the situation itself must precede the time
of speech. Thus, for all situations viewed as temporally limited, the deferred
evidence meaning implies past time reference. If, however, the situation is con-
ceived of as a characteristic feature of a protracted period of time, this impli-
cation does not apply, since such a period can easily include both the time of
acquiring the evidence and the time of speech, cf. examples (22) and (24).
In Tundra Yukaghir, the Inferential is incompatible with the Progressive
marker (-nu-), so that the constraint on a present interpretation of Continu-
ous predicates applies only to atelic verbs. In Kolyma Yukaghir, the same suffix
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:23/12/2002; 15:43 F: TSL5409.tex / p.9 (227)
Evidentiality in Yukaghir 
serves as a general Imperfective marker (see (6b)) and can be combined with
the Inferential in both progressive (20) and habitual (22) meanings. In this
morphological context, the Inferential suffix can be used only in its hearsay
meaning, i.e. the notion of inference from visible traces (or deferred visual
evidence) is incompatible with the Imperfective marking.
. Tense and mood
The Irrealis Inferential forms are possible but extremely rare in natural dis-
course. They occur only within stretches of discourse related in the Inferential
form throughout, i.e. if the whole description of the episode is based on hearsay
(see Section 5), e.g.:
(20) tamun-gele
that-acc
el-l’uö-l’el-]i
neg-see-infr-3pl:intr
juö-l’el-]ide
see-infr-ss:cond
m-et-aji:-nu-l’el-]a.
aff-irr-shoot-ipfv-infr-3pl:tr
[Two swans passed by (infr)]. ‘They did not see that (infr). If they had
seen it, they would be shooting at them (irr+infr).’ (K4:94–95).
The Irrealis falls within the scope of Inferential in all examples of this sort,
i.e. the Inferential signals that the complex fact expressed by the conditional
construction as a whole has been learned from hearsay.
The combination of Inferential and Future markers expresses hypothetical
modality (Krejnovich 1982:140–141). The following examples show that it can
be used to encode hypotheses about present (21a) and past (21b) situations:
(21) a. a:che
deer
chuge-ge
track-loc
jo:dude-t
turn-ss:ipfv
ejrie-l’el-te-j.
walk-infr-fut-intr:3sg
‘He is probably walking along deer tracks.’ (K3:48)
b. locil-]in
fire-dat
lebie-d
soil-at
emej-]in
mother-dat
tadi:-nu-l’el-te-m.
give-ipfv-infr-fut-tr:3sg
‘Probably, he used to give it to the Fire, to Mother of the Earth.’
(K4:57)
This form cannot be used with future temporal reference, i.e. a hypothesis
about future must be expressed by means of the Direct Future form.
This use of the Inferential suffix may seem to indicate that it can acquire
epistemic meaning. However, the meaning of hypothesis can also be taken as
the invariant semantic component of the Future suffix, i.e. the Hypothetical
(Inferential Future) and Direct Future forms can be assumed to have the same
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:23/12/2002; 15:43 F: TSL5409.tex / p.10 (228)
 Elena Maslova
epistemic meaning and to differ in time reference only. Under this assump-
tion, the Inferential suffix in the Hypothetical form contributes the temporal
meaning of non-Future, but does not bear the epistemic meaning, preserving
its basic meaning of non-witnessed past/present situation. Essentially the same
approach seems to be taken by Krejnovich, who describes the Inferential Realis
and Hypothetical forms as two variants of the “noneyewitnessmood”, “certain”
and “uncertain” respectively (1982:140).
. Clause type
The Evidential suffixes do not occur in Imperative sentences. In questions, the
Inferential marking is possible, but extremely infrequent. It is attested in spe-
cific questions only and applies to the presupposition of the question: in (22),
for example, the Inferential indicates that the speaker has not witnessed people
going away from his current location:
(22) qodo
how
ti:-t
here-abl
kebej-nu-l’el-]i?
go-ipfv-infr-3pl:intr
‘How do people go away from here?’ (N35:513)
In contrast with most languages that allow Evidential marking in interrogative
sentences (see Chapter 1 of this volume), the Inferential form of question does
not involve any assumptions about the addressee’s source of information.
. Semantic extensions of the Inferential suffix
. Inferential with predicates of internal properties: Mirativity
Strictly speaking, internal properties (being clever, kind, bad, etc.) can only be
inferred on the basis of their external manifestations; however, predicates sig-
nifying such properties can occur in both Direct and Inferential form. It seems
that a morphological distinction is drawn between properties that are displayed
and/or acknowledged by the speaker for the first time (Inferential) and prop-
erties that have been established earlier and are therefore known to be present
(Direct). For example, in a narrative about the speaker’s very first hunting ex-
perience, whereby he was supervised by his elder brother, the brother makes
two encouraging statements, first (23a) (right after the hunting was over) and
then (23b):
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:23/12/2002; 15:43 F: TSL5409.tex / p.11 (229)
Evidentiality in Yukaghir 
(23) a. qal’it’e
best.hunter
o:-l’el-d’ek
cop-infr-intr:2sg
‘You proved to be a real hunter!’
b. qal’it’e
best.hunter
o:-d’ek
cop-intr:2sg
‘You are a real hunter!’
The Inferential marking in (23a) indicates that the elder brother has inferred,
on the basis of the boy’s behavior, that he has a set of qualities required of
qal’it’e (the best hunter of a tribe). By the time of the second utterance, this
fact has already been established, and the Direct form is appropriate.
This semantic distinction implies that if the speaker expects a certain qual-
ity to be present, this quality would not be predicated in the Inferential form;
in other words, the Inferential acquires some sort of mirative semantics (De-
Lancey 1997), e.g.
(24) a. a]a-n’e-l’el
mouth-com-infr(intr:3sg)
ada]
this
‘This one has turned out to be voracious!’ [N42:27]
b. önme-n’-d’e
mind-com-attr
šoromo
person
o:-l’el-d’ek!
cop-infr-intr:2sg
‘You have turned out to be a clever person!’ [N31:579]
. First person Inferential: Inadvertent actions
If the speaker is a participant of the situation being described, the situation can
be considered ‘eyewitness’ par excellence. In this context, the Inferential suffix
can be used in its deferred evidence meaning (see examples in (14)). Apart
from this, the Inferential can be used to encode inadvertent actions (Krejnovich
1982:141–142), e.g.:
(25) a. met
I
chohojo
knife
jo]ža:-l’el-d’e
forget-infr-intr:1sg
‘I have forgotten my knife’ [N28:57]
b. modo-t
[sit-ss:ipfv]
ta]diet
then
mala-j-l’el-d’e
sleep-pfv-infr-intr:1sg
‘I was sitting and then somehow fell asleep’
This meaning appears to be limited to first person Inferential forms.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:23/12/2002; 15:43 F: TSL5409.tex / p.12 (230)
 Elena Maslova
. Inferential in non-finite forms: Relative past
In Tundra Yukaghir, the Inferential suffix is used in non-finite forms as a
marker of relative past; in this function, it is paradigmatically opposed to the
Progressive suffix, which expresses relative present, e.g.:
tundra yukaghir
(26) a. sew-l’el-da-ha
enter-infr-3-ds
mon-i...
say-intr:3sg
‘When he had come in, she said:...’ (T1:231)
b. arej
suddenly
neri-nu-da-hane
bite-prog-3-ds:cond
sal’hari:-gi
tooth-poss
me-lepege-t’.
aff-fall.off-pfv:intr:3sg
‘Suddenly, as it was gnawing like that, its tooth fell out.’ (T8:51)
tundra yukaghir
(27) wie-l’el-d’e köde ‘person who has/had made’
wie-nu-je köde ‘person who is/was making’
This usage of the Inferential suffix is clearly related to the temporal (deferred
evidence) component of its primary meaning. Both the Inferential and Pro-
gressive meanings imply the existence of a temporal reference point distinct
from the time of situation and the time of speech, time of evidence and ref-
erence time respectively. For non-finite forms, the temporal reference point
is identified with the time of the situation expressed by the main clause, which
leads to an interpretation of the Progressive as relative present, and the Inferen-
tial, as relative past. Grammaticalization of this distinction in non-finite forms
may have determined the constraint on the compatibility of the Inferential and
Progressive suffixes in finite forms (see §4.1).
In Kolyma Yukaghir, the use of the Inferential suffix in non-finite forms
is limited to conditional forms in counterfactual conditional constructions (cf.
(20)); there is no relative tense opposition of the kind exemplified in (26)–(27).
. Discourse strategies: Shift of the deictic center
Given the eyewitness semantics of the Direct form, one would expect to find
whole narratives related in the Inferential form throughout whenever a speaker
describes events which they learned about from someone else, including all
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:23/12/2002; 15:43 F: TSL5409.tex / p.13 (231)
Evidentiality in Yukaghir 
sorts of oral heritage. Indeed, this form of narrating events is quite common:
speakers do consistently use the Inferential form to signal that they learned
about the events from someone else.
However, if the context unambiguously rules out the speaker as a potential
witness of the events being described, the speaker can choose another strategy,
whereby the story is narrated in the Direct form and the Evidentiality mark-
ing is reoriented towards another potential recipient of information, usually
the main protagonist of the story. In other words, the “reference point” with
regard to which the eyewitness vs. noneyewitness distinction is defined may be
shifted from the speaker to a different observer (cf. Krejnovich 1958:127). This
phenomenon is illustrated by the following example:
(28) chaj
tea
lolha-j-ge
boil-pfv-ds
cha:j-ek
tea-foc
o:že-]ile.
drink-3pl:of
oqonastie
Afanasiy
pulut
old.man
tude
3sg
jouje
net
juö-t
see-ss:ipfv
bicun
various
anil-gele
fish-acc
cumu
all
i:die-l’el-u-m.
catch-infr-0-tr:3sg
‘When the tea was ready, they drank it. Afanasiy the old man had checked
his net and it turned out that he caught all kinds of fish.’ (K4:124–125)
The Direct form in the first sentence is admissible since it has been made clear
earlier in the text that this part of the story is based on hearsay. The immediate
context sets one protagonist (Afanasiy) as the deictic center of the situation.
The Inferential form is used to indicate that the situation was not witnessed by
the observersingled out by the context: Afanasiy did not see fish get into his net.
The choice between ‘Direct’ and ‘Inferential’ discourse strategies seems to
be determined by the speaker’s commitment to the truth of the whole story,
but in a somewhat unexpected way: the consistent Inferential marking is used
to highlight the positive epistemic stance and to stress that the listener is sup-
posed to take the story as truthful. For example, an episode of Yukaghir his-
tory which had happened before the speaker’s lifetime or a mythological story
would almost certainly be narrated in the Inferential form: since it is clear that
the speaker has no firsthand information, they would consistently indicate that
they do have some other source of reliable information. On the contrary, a
fairy tale can be easily told in the Direct form (although the Inferential strategy
is possible as well). There seems to be a slight difference between Kolyma and
Tundra Yukaghir conventions: the Inferential marking used throughout a nar-
rative (including fairy tales) appears more common in the former, so that the
“shifted” usage figures more prominently in Tundra Yukaghir. However, the
number of narrators is so small that it is easy to take an accidental difference in
their personal narrative styles for a difference between languages.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:23/12/2002; 15:43 F: TSL5409.tex / p.14 (232)
 Elena Maslova
At another level, even a story narrated in the Inferential form can occa-
sionally switch to the Direct form for an episode or two, most often when
the speaker goes into vivid details of some episode (as if they were an ac-
tual witness of the situation). Moreover, the deictic center may shift multiple
times in the course of a narrative between several potential observers (includ-
ing the speaker), the result being a quite complex interplay of speaker-oriented
and shifted Inferential marking. Some instances of the Inferential marking
in Tundra Yukaghir appear not to invoke any specific observer; consider the
following example:
tundra yukaghir
(29) tide
that
talhuo-d’e
hide-at
t’i:
people
qu:dej-nu-re]
climb-prog-ss:ipfv
endu
each
ma:rqa-n
one-at
t’awjuol-ek
piece-foc
lew-l’el-]u-mle
eat-infr-pl-tr:of.3
sawhaq=enmu-t.
plate=dstr-abl
‘It turned out that those hidden men, before they climbed up the tree, had
eaten a piece from each plate.’ (T1:395)
The discourse context of (29) contains two groups of protagonists, the primary
participants of the situation (A) and the owners of the plates (B). The sen-
tence appears immediately after the information that the B-group found out
that some food was missing from their plates. The Inferential suffix cannot be
interpreted with regard to the A-group (they did witness their own eating), nor
to the B-group, since they are unable to find out, at this point of the story, who
had eaten the food. It appears that the Inferential is used because the situation
occurred before the current reference time of narrative, i.e. to signal a deviation
from temporally iconic presentation of events. In other words, the deferred ev-
idence meaning is reinterpreted with regard to the speaker-listener interaction
(the relevant information is provided later than suggested by the storyline).
This use of the Yukaghir Inferential seems to resemble the commentative func-
tion of evidential markers in Abkhaz (Chirikba, this volume); however, such
examples are too rare for any positive conclusions.
It seems worth mentioning that the deictic shift phenomenon has some-
what paradoxical implications with regard to the grammatical status of Evi-
dentiality in Yukaghir. On the one hand, the possibility of using the Direct
form to describe situations that were not witnessed by the speaker seems to
indicate that the Evidentiality distinction proper is not obligatory (hence, not
grammatical); on the other hand, the shift of deictic center is quite common for
deictic categories (cf. e.g. the “narrative present” phenomenon) and seems to
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:23/12/2002; 15:43 F: TSL5409.tex / p.15 (233)
Evidentiality in Yukaghir 
show that the category has been extended to cover a broader range of contexts
and to thus indicate a more advanced grammaticalization.
. An Evidentiality strategy: Result Nominal?
Krejnovich (1982:140, 208–209) mentions constructions with the Result Nom-
inal (the suffix -o:l) in a predicative function as a strategy used to indicate that
the source of the information about the situation is based on its visible traces.
The primary function of this construction is to present a state of affairs as a
result of a preceding action:
(30) a. tabun
that
po]žube
wood.grouse
lukil
arrow
eju:-l-o:-gi
get-0-rnr-poss
‘It is the trace of wood grouse’s arrows’ (N6:38)
b. met-kele
I-acc
met
my
es’ie
father
jad-o:-gi
send-rnr-poss
[...]
‘It was my father who had sent me . . . ’ (lit. (My being here) is a result
of my father’s having sent me...) (N22:35)
As shown by these examples, the situation itself may (30b), but need not (30a),
be witnessed by the speaker (example (30a) is the conclusion of a mythological
story intended to explain the origin of the white spots on pike’s skin). In nei-
ther case is it assumed that the information about the preceding situation is (or
can be) inferred from the observable state of affairs: the speaker has this knowl-
edge from some other source. In most cases, it is assumed that the listener can
observe the result (e.g. the speaker being at a certain place, as in (30b)), but not
the situation that brought about this result (his father having sent him there),
and the latter constitutes the information conveyed by the sentence. It seems
that this construction neutralizes the Evidentiality distinctions that otherwise
must be encoded morphologically (by choosing between the Direct and the
Inferential forms), yet it cannot be considered an Evidentiality strategy.
. Conclusion
According to the classification adopted in this volume, the Inferential vs. Di-
rect morphological opposition in Yukaghir instantiates the binary ‘eyewitness
vs. noneyewitness’ (A1) Evidentiality system and features some semantic over-
tones characteristic of such systems cross-linguistically, such as mirative con-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:23/12/2002; 15:43 F: TSL5409.tex / p.16 (234)
 Elena Maslova
notations and inadvertent interpretations of first person Inferential forms. On
the other hand, this opposition is built into a morphological category with a
strong temporal dimension, so that the noneyewitness term can also signify
deferred eyewitness evidence. The resulting Evidentiality system is comprised
of three terms: simultaneous eyewitness evidence (unmarked), noneyewitness
and/or deferred evidence, and anterior evidence (for future situations only).
The deferred evidence meaning of the noneyewitnessterm accounts for seman-
tic extensions which seem to be cross-linguistically unusual for A1 systems, the
shift of deictic center and the relative past meaning in non-finite forms.
The data presented here suggest that temporal semantics play a more sig-
nificant role in Tundra Yukaghir, where some instances of the Inferential mark-
ing seem to display a perfect-like meaning. Since the noneyewitness meaning
figures saliently in all native speaker accounts of the semantics of the Infer-
ential suffix and can be thus taken to constitute its semantic prototype, the
situation in Tundra Yukaghir appears to display the mirror-image of a more
cross-linguistically common situation where Perfect forms are used as an Ev-
identiality strategy. However, the available data is insufficient to reconstruct
the diachronic development of the Inferential suffix, in particular, to find out
whether the temporal semantics of this suffix results from grammaticalization
of a noneyewitness marker or vice versa.
Notes
. I am grateful to all participants of the Workshop on Evidentiality at RCLT (2001) for in-
sightful and encouraging discussion of the previous version of this paper and of Evidentiality
in general.
. Both languages are on the verge of extinction: Kolyma Yukaghir is spoken by ca. 50
people, and Tundra Yukaghir by ca. 150 people (Vakhtin 1991).
. In Tundra Yukaghir, the Prospective suffix has the form -mori-.
. 0 in glosses indicates that the vowel is epenthentic.
. Reference to published text corpora are organized as follows: the letter refers to the text
corpus (N for (Nikolaeva 1988), K for the Kolyma Yukaghir corpus of (Maslova 2001), T for
the Tundra Yukaghir corpus in the same book); it is followed by text number and sentence
number(s) within the text. All examples without explicit references are taken from my un-
published field records. The relevant context information for text examples is summarized
in brackets [ ].
. Krejnovich (1982:208) claims that inference on the basis of auditory information can be
marked by suffix -že- (in Subject-Focus constructions). In actual fact, this suffix is a non-
productive detransitivizer (used with a very small group of verbs), and thus cannot function
as a regular Evidential marker.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:23/12/2002; 15:43 F: TSL5409.tex / p.17 (235)
Evidentiality in Yukaghir 
References
Jochelson, W. (1905). Essay on the grammar of the Yukaghir Language. Annals of the New-
York Academy of Sciences 16(2).
Comrie, B. (1976). Aspect. Cambridge University Press: Cambridge.
DeLancey, S. (1997). Mirativity: The grammatical marking of unexpected information.
Linguistic Typology, 1, 33–52.
Krejnovich, E. A. (1958). Yukagirskij jazyk [The Yukaghir language]. Moscow-Leningrad:
Nauka.
Krejnovich, E. A. (1982). Issledovanija i materialy po jukagirskomu jazyku. [Studies and
materials on the Yukaghir language]. Leningrad: Nauka.
Vakhtin, N. (1991). The Yukaghir language in sociolinguistic perspective. Linguistic and
Oriental Studies from Poznań, 47–82.
Texts
1. Jochelson, W. I. (1900). Materialy po izucheniju jukagirskogo jazyka i foljklora. Chastj
1. Obrazcy narodnoj slovesnosti jukagirov. [Materials on the study of the Yukaghir
language and folklore. Part 1. Samples of folk literature of the Yukaghir]. Trudy
jakutskoj ekspedicii. Otdel III, tom 9, chastj 3. [Publications of the Yakut expedition,
division 9, part 3]. Sankt-Peterburg: Rossijskaja Akademija Nauk.
2. Maslova, E. (2001). Yukaghir texts. Tunguso-Sibirica, 7. Harrassowitz Verlag: Wiesbaden.
3. Nikolaeva, I. (1997). Yukagir texts. Specimina Sibirica, XIII. Savariae: Peter Tillinger,
Szentendre.
4. Nikolaeva, I. (1989). Foljklor jukagirov verknej Kolymy. Hrestomatia. Chasti 1–2. [The
folklore of the Yukaghir of the Upper Kolyma. A Chrestomathy. Parts 1–2]. Yakutsk:
Jakutskij gosudarstvennyi Universitet.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:47 F: TSL5410.tex / p.1 (237)
Chapter 10
Evidentiality in Mỹky
Ruth Monserrat and R. M. W. Dixon
. Introduction
Mỹky is a language isolate, spoken on the Upper Juruena River in the state
of Mato Grosso, Brazil (Iranxe is another dialect of the language); there are
currently about 70 speakers, who are increasingly becoming bilingual in Por-
tuguese. This report was written by Dixon and is entirely based on Mon-
serrat (2000), which is the result of extensive field work by Ruth Monserrat,
commencing in 1980; the report has been read and approved by Monserrat.
There are 17 consonant phonemes: p, t, k, m, n; palatalised pj, tj, kj, mj,
nj; glottal stop ‘ (written as ’); fricatives s, w (written as x), h; semi-vowels j,
w; liquid r (the Iranxe dialect also has a contrast between r and l). There are
seven vowel phonemes, each of which can be either short or long and/or either
plain or nasalised; they are i, ε (written as e), G (written as y), 6, a, u and f
(written as o).
The verb in Mỹky may take a single productive prefix (with iterative mean-
ing) and no less than 11 orders of suffixes; these are set out in Table 1. There
is a visual/non-visual distinction coded in suffix set 7, while other evidentiality
values are included (with negation) in suffix set 4. In addition, suffix 9 indicates
uncertainty, which can relate to an evidentiality system in other languages.
. Visual/nonvisual
There are three paradigms of subject pronominals in suffix slot 7: (I) refer-
ring to present and immediate past, in declarative mood; (II) referring to non-
immediate past, in declarative mood; (III) ‘irrealis’, referring to future time in
declarative mood, and to interrogative and imperative moods.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:47 F: TSL5410.tex / p.2 (238)
 Ruth Monserrat and R. M. W. Dixon
Table 1. Verb structure in Mỹky
prefix iterative
VERB STEM (may involve compounding)
suffix 1 aspect – perfective, progressive, frustrative (‘tried but failed’), non-lasting,
absolutely, etc.
2 pronominal form referring to object, showing whether (i) 1st, 2nd or 3rd
person or reflexive; and (ii) sg or nsg
3 pragmatic marker (first set), indicating whether speaker and subject belong
to different classes; for example, male and female, adult and child, human
and non-human animate, human and spirit
4 evidentiality/negation – see §3
5 habitual marker – impersonal (for example, ‘one plants peanuts’) or per-
sonal (‘I eat corn’)
6 tense – remote past, immediate future, general future
7 pronominal form referring to subject, indicating (i) 1st, 2nd or 3rd person;
(ii) sg, du or pl; (iii) present, past or irrealis; (iv) (only if 2nd or 3rd person,
and present or past) visual (observed by speaker) or non-visual
8 mood – declarative, interrogative (with present and past forms), imperative,
mirative (surprise or admiration), plus emphatic (this only for 1st person
subject and present tense)
9 marker of uncertainty (‘I think so’)
10 pragmatic markers (second set) – similar to suffix 3, marking whether
speaker and subject belong to the same class, and also whether a question,
command or response
11 marker of discourse organisation; for example, -nã in example (3)
There is no further marking for present/immediate past; that is, slot 6 is
left vacant for this tense choice. Remote past involves suffix -kare (sg subject)
or -ka (nsg subject) in slot 6, followed by a choice from paradigm II in slot 7.
If there is no suffix in slot 6, then a form from paradigm II in slot 7 is taken to
refer to non-immediate non-remote past. Future is shown by a suffix in slot 6,
followed by a form from paradigm III in slot 7.
In paradigms I and II of slot 7, there are different subject pronomi-
nals for ‘visual’ (speaker sees it) and ‘nonvisual’ (speaker does not see it),
when the subject is 2nd person – see Table 2. When the subject is 3rd per-
son, a visual/nonvisual distinction is made just in paradigm II. There is no
visual/nonvisual distinction in paradigm III. That is, 2nd person marks vi-
sual/nonvisual in present and past declarative, and third person just in past
declarative. For 1st person subject (that is, when the subject is identical with
the speaker) there is never any visual/nonvisual specification.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:47 F: TSL5410.tex / p.3 (239)
Evidentiality in Mỹky 
Table 2. 2nd person subject pronominals in slot 7, paradigms I and II
paradigm I, present/immediate past paradigm II, non-immediate past
subject visual non-visual visual non-visual
2sg -si -hmı̃ -xu -hmjũ
2du -mé-xi -mé-hmi -mé-xu -mé-hmjũ
2pl -m 6́-xi -m 6́-hmı̃ -m 6́-xu -m 6́-hmjũ
Examples include:
(1) jamã -pju-si
give-3plO-2sg.subject+present+visual
ka
arrow
‘you (sg) just gave them (an) arrow’ (and the speaker saw it)
(2) matosi
monkey
manã -ø-méhmı̃
kill-3sgO-2dusubject+present+nonvisual
‘you two just killed (a) monkey’ (and the speaker didn’t see it)
(3) jontje
yesterday
to
go
kare-méxu-nã
hunt-2dusubject+past+visual-discourse
‘yesterday, you two went out hunting’ (and the speaker saw it)
(4) jontje
yesterday
xahtaka-méhmjũ
return-2dusubject+past+nonvisual
‘yesterday, you two returned’ (the speaker knows it, but wasn’t there at the
time to observe it)
The personal habitual suffix, -na/-ne, in slot 5, takes paradigm II in slot 7, and
can co-occur with visual or non-visual:
(5) katẽtiri
flute
tutu-na-m´
6xu
play-habitual-2pl.subject+visual
‘you all play the flute’ (the speaker has observed this)
(6) sẽı̃
2sg
kuratu
maize
ãka-né-hmjũ
eat-habitual-2sg.subject+nonvisual
‘you (sg) habitually eat corn’ (the speaker knows this, but hasn’t really
seen it)
. The evidentiality/negation system
There are four suffixes in slot 4. The system is optional. (Alternatively, there
could be said to be a fifth term with zero marking, showing that none of the
positive specifications apply.) The four non-zero suffixes are:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:47 F: TSL5410.tex / p.4 (240)
 Ruth Monserrat and R. M. W. Dixon
a. -6́ra, -r6́ra, negative;
b. -maka, reported (‘someone said this’), typically used in myths and tradi-
tional stories;
c. -aka, inferred (‘it appears that’);
d. -hé (with allomorph -étiro), speculative (‘it is likely that’).
What is noteworthy is the occurrence of negative in the same system as the
reported and inferred evidentiality specifications, and the speculative marker.
Examples of (b–d) are:
(7) alỹ-maka-ø
die-reported-3sg(III)
‘it is said that he just died’
(8) k6ja=kao-aka-ø
be.delicious=lots-inferred-3sg(III)
‘it appears to be delicious’
(9) maromỹ
tomorrow
m6nã-étiro-o-ø
rain-speculative-future-3sg(III)
‘it’ll probably rain tomorrow’
The negation/evidentiality suffixes in slot 4 are attested with a variety of suffixes
from the three paradigms in slot 7. However, there appears to be no possibility
of a visual/non-visual distinction in conjunction with any of the set 4 specifi-
cations. The mirative mood suffix (in slot 8) appears to take visual forms from
paradigm I in slot 7; again, there is no visual/non-visual distinction.
. Summary
The evidentiality values shown in the grammar of Mỹky span two distinct suffix
systems:
(1) Visual versus nonvisual – for 2nd person subject in paradigm I, and for
both 2nd and 3rd person subjects in paradigms I and II; never for 1st
person subject. That is, the distinction applies:
Table 3. Interrelation of person with visual/nonvisual evidentiality
paradigm II – declarative mood, non-immediate past tense 2nd and 3rd person subject
paradigm II – declarative mood, present and immediate 2nd person subject
past tense
interrogative and imperative moods not applicable
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:47 F: TSL5410.tex / p.5 (241)
Evidentiality in Mỹky 
(2) Reported or inferred (plus speculative), in the same system as negation, in
slot 4.
It appears that the two systems cannot be combined. That is, a visual/non-
visual specification cannot be combined with a reported or inferred evidential-
ity specification (nor with negative or speculative).
References
Monserrat, Ruth (2000). A língua do povo Mỹky. Ph.D. dissertation, Universidade Federal
do Rio de Janeiro.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.1 (243)
Chapter 11
Evidential category and evidential
strategy in Abkhaz
Viacheslav Chirikba
. Abkhaz: General information1
Abkhaz, together with Circassian and the recently extinct Ubykh, belongs to
the small Abkhazo-Adyghean (or West Caucasian) language family. West Cau-
casian is one of three indigenous language families spoken in the Caucasus, the
others being East Caucasian, or Nakh-Daghestanian, and Kartvelian, or South
Caucasian.
Abkhaz consists of three dialect groups: the northern one, including
Tapanta Abaza, the southern one, or Abkhaz proper (with such dialects as
Abzhywa, Bzyp, Sadz and Ahchypsy), and Ashkharywa, which, though closer
to the southern group, can in general be regarded as intermediate between the
northern and the southern groups.
Abkhaz has an elaborately developed verbal system. The verb is charac-
terized by polypersonalism, the verb-form being able to encode up to 4 ar-
guments. The striking feature of Abkhaz is that it operates its ergative strat-
egy without the use of overt case-marking, the ergativity being expressed by
virtue of form and position of class/person prefixes. Verbs are grouped into
dynamic or stative, which differ, in particular, in the number of tenses: sta-
tive verbs lack the majority of tenses possessed by their dynamic counterparts.
Verbs distinguish also finite and non-finite forms.
Polysynthesis is another salient feature of Abkhaz; the verb-form consists
of a long string of prefixes (expressing grammatical and directional meanings),
while less numerous suffixes serve as bearers of temporal, aspectual and some
other meanings.
Abkhaz tenses form two symmetrical groups, the formal criterion for the
distinction between them being the use of either -t6 or -n as the ending of fi-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.2 (244)
 Viacheslav Chirikba
nite forms of dynamic verbs. The general scheme of the dynamic verb tenses is
as follows:
First Tense Group: Present, Aorist, Future I, Future II, Perfect.
Second Tense Group: Imperfect, Past Indefinite, Future Conditional I, Future
Conditional II, Pluperfect.
Abkhaz is the only West Caucasian language which has a category of grammat-
ical noun class, subdivided into the class of humans (hum) and non-humans
(nhum). The former is further subdivided into masculine (masc) and femi-
nine (fem). The class system finds its expression in verbal, pronominal and
number systems.
. Evidential category and evidential strategy
Abkhaz has a straightforward and in most cases grammatically autonomous
(i.e. not overlapping with other categories) system of coding evidentiality. In
Abkhaz evidentiality is an obligatory grammatical category.
The Abkhaz evidential forms were briefly discussed already in the first
Abkhaz grammar written by the Russian general and linguist Baron Peter Us-
lar. Uslar (1887:23) seems to have noticed the presence of Inferential II forms
only (with suffix -za[a]rEn), which he mistakenly identified as belonging to
the domain of the conditional mood (‘zavisimoe ot uslovija’ = ‘dependent
on condition’). The Georgian linguist Lomtatidze in her two important arti-
cles (1954; 1955, cf. also 1988) discussed the origin of inferential markers in
Abkhaz(-Abaza). The Abkhaz linguist Chkadua (1970:201–202) regards infer-
entials as intermediate formations between the temporal forms of indicative
and the mood forms. According to her colleague Aristava (1982:86), though
the inferential category in Abkhaz is not regarded in the specialist literature
as belonging to the ‘mood’ domain, it can be qualified as one of the forms
of the indicative, “combining the objective-real meaning with the subjective-
problematic meaning”.
The 1979a article by Hewitt is specially devoted to the inferential category
in Abkhaz. Hewitt discusses the semantics of Abkhaz inferentials and possi-
ble explanations of the origin of this category. In his Abkhaz grammar, Hewitt
(1979b:196) describes the inferential mood under the sub-rubric of ‘author-
ity for assertion’, specifying it as expressing an assertion made as a result of
inference or hearsay.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.3 (245)
Evidential category and evidential strategy in Abkhaz 
The evidential category is a pan-Caucasian phenomenon, present in one or
another form in the majority of, if not all, Caucasian languages. From a broader
areal perspective, the Caucasus is known to form a so-called ‘evidentiality belt’
encompassing also Asia Minor and the Balkans. Donabedian (2001:429) calls
this area the ‘Balkan-Caucasian continuum’.
Of recent publications on evidentiality in Kartvelian languages, see the
discussion of Svan by Sumbatova (1999) and of Georgian by Boeder (2000).
On evidentiality in Daghestanian languages see, in particular, publications on
Tsakhur edited by Kibrik and Testelets (1999), on Lak by Friedman (2000), and
a more general survey by Tatevosov (1998).
Evidential category in Abkhaz, according to Aikhenvald’s classification, can
be generally determined as a basic two-term system A2 (cf. Aikhenvald, Chap-
ter 1), i.e. ‘non-firsthand and everything else’, though evidentials in Abkhaz
have also unwitnessed and reported readings.
Evidential Category
Inferential. Verb stem + inferential suffixes -zaap6 (Inferential I)/-zaarEn (In-
ferential II).
Evidential Strategy. Besides having a distinct morphological category, Abkhaz
also uses a range of other grammatical and lexical means to express the evi-
dential strategy. These are: (a) the quotative particle h0a (cf. §4.1) and (b) the
reportative verb a-h0a-ra ‘to tell, say’ (§4.2).
. Inferential
. Formal expression
Inferential meanings are expressed by adding to the verbal stem of the com-
pound suffixes -z+aa+p6 or -z+aa+rE+n, sometimes referred to as Inferential I
and II. The frequency of the suffix -zaarEn is much lower than that of -zaap6.
Both forms are neutral as to the tense distinctions and can refer either to past,
present or future, the bearer of temporal (and aspectual) meaning being the
stem provided by appropriate suffixes. In the verb-form inferential markers
occupy the right-most position, reserved for the ending slot. The rare excep-
tion to this rule is the adding to the verb-form of the emphatic particle -aj (cf.
example (9) below).
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.4 (246)
 Viacheslav Chirikba
. Semantics of inferentials
Three main meanings of Abkhaz inferentials can be singled out: (a) unwit-
nessed (reported), (b) commentative and (c) mirative. Within the scope of these
three terms, a variety of subtler contextually determined nuances can be en-
countered, such as uncertainty as to the information conveyed, speculation,
conjecture, logical deduction, tentative conclusion, summary or judgment,
surprise discovery, sudden realization, a guess, etc. On the other hand, the
non-inferential, zero-marked term would refer to ‘everything else’.
The speaker uses inferential forms to emphasize the fact that they do not
take responsibility or authority over the assertion, or that they were not a wit-
ness or direct participant in the event described, or to give additional back-
ground information to the narrated event. The Inferential can refer to situa-
tions when certain (past) facts or events are inferred, assumed, presumed or
logically deduced from their observable results. The speaker can be an actual
observer of the action, but, as a norm, not a direct or conscious participant
of the event. Inferential forms can be translated into English as ‘apparently’,
‘evidently’, ‘seemingly’, ‘as it turns/turned out’.
Below are examples of a range of evidential nuances, grouped under the
sub-rubrics of unwitnessed, commentative and mirative.
.. Unwitnessed (Reported)
Here the Russian term zaglaznoe naklonenie (‘out-of-sight mood’) is justified,
as ‘unwitnessed’ refers to events of which the narrator was not a direct observer
or a witness, their knowledge being based on what they heard from other peo-
ple (hearsay), or came to know in a way other than direct observation. Some-
times the reported aspect of inferentials is reinforced by expressions like jE-
z+la-r-h0a-wa a-la ‘as they say’. The following are some of the nuances of the
‘unwitnessed/reported’.
(1) a-laSa+ra-x7,
art-light-dir
a-mca-x7
art-fire-dir
d-an-aa-j-%,
(s)he-when-hither-come-aor:nfin
lE-la-k0a
her-eye-pl
%-q6apS7-Ya
it-red-adv
jE-q6a-n,
it-be-past
d-c60Ewa-zaarEn.
(s)he-cry-infer2
‘When she came up to the light, to the fire, her eyes were very red; appar-
ently, she had been crying.’ (DG)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.5 (247)
Evidential category and evidential strategy in Abkhaz 
(2) l-x0EC67E
her-child
d-anE-l-ba-%
him/her-when-she-see-aor:nfin
a-c60Ewa-ra
art-cry-dn
d-a-la+ga-zaap6.
(s)he-it-begin-infer1
‘When she saw her child, she reportedly started crying.’ (Aristava 1982:88)
(3) %-aZ0E+t60+w-aa
art-old+human-pl
jE-z+l-a-r-h0-wa
it-how-about-they-tell-pres:dyn:nfin
a-la,
it-by
a-p6ap6
art-priest
jE-w+aa+h0-c0a
his-helper-pl
a-h0a
art-pig
%E-r-q6aa-nE,
it-caus-shriek-pabs
a-la
art-dog
%-r-zE-j-S7-zaap6.
it-them-for-he-kill-infer1
‘As it was recounted by old people, having made the pig cry, the priest
reportedly killed (and served) the dog for his helpers.’ (Anshba 55)
.. Commentative
When used in the ‘commentative’ function, the inferential forms serve to con-
centrate the listener’s attention on certain focal points of the unfolding intrigue
or to give background-information known to the narrator, but not to the lis-
tener. Though sometimes the inferential form in this function contains a tinge
of inference or the unwitnessed (reported), the main meaning of the form in
question is rather provision of background information or comment, which
allows us to regard ‘commentative’ as a relatively independent meaning, on a
par with inference and unwitnessed.
(4) A giant observes the battle of two protagonists and then makes a tenta-
tive conclusion:
“ar+t
these
%-nE-(a)j+ba-r-c60a-wa-zaap6”,
they-prev-rec-caus-perish-progr2
-infer1
%-jE-h0a-n,
it-he-say-pindef
aY0
one:hum
d-aa-S7tE-j-xE-n
him/her-hither-from.ground-he-take-pindef
j-arJ7a
his-right
mag0
boot
d-ta-jE-r-t60a-%-jt6.
him/her-inside-he-caus-sit-aor-dyn:fin
“‘They are apparently killing each other,” having said (this), he picked up
one of them and put him into his right boot.’ (Marr 13)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.6 (248)
 Viacheslav Chirikba
Note that in (4) the inference (assumption) is based on a direct observation
by the protagonist, who however, until a certain moment, was not a direct
participant, but only an outside observer of the action.
(5) In a story about a person who gained power over a mermaid by cutting
off and hiding a lock of her hair, the verb forms used are non-inferential until
the narrator comes to an important remark that the person’s little daughter saw
where her father hid the mermaid’s hair:
a-x0EC67E
art-child
jE-l-ba-zaap6.
it-she-see-infer1
‘The child, as it turned out, saw it.’ (Anshba 79)
The choice of this particular verb to be marked by an inferential marker is
strategically important, as this knowledge led to a dramatic consequence. Cun-
ningly, the mermaid makes the naïve child tell her the whereabouts of her hair,
takes possession of it, kills the child and disappears.
(6) A young man is visited in his dreams by a devil woman who insists on
marrying him. The man tells his friend about the nightmare and adds that he
is going to kill the she-devil. Soon the news about the man’s suicide comes. The
story ends with the narrator’s comment, which might as well reflect the victim’s
friend’s thoughts:
pxEY-la
dream-instr
jE-jE-ba-wa+z
it-he-see-imperf:nfin
a-ph0Es
art-woman
d-l-aj+x+sE-z
(s)he-her-shoot-pindef:nfin
%-D+S7a-%,
it-think-pabs:nfin
rEcha,
poor.soul
jE-xE
his-head
j-a-g0E+dE-j-c6a-zaap6.
it-it3
-prev-he-put-infer1
‘Having thought that he was shooting at the woman in his dream, he, poor
soul, as it turned out, shot himself.’ (Anshba 81)
.. Mirative
An inferential can, depending on the context, acquire mirative overtones,
which imply a sudden realization or a surprise discovery, a surprise confirma-
tion of a certain knowledge or reputation.
(7) The Prince of Abkhazia is visiting a peasant. The latter is entertaining
the high guest with stories, while the prince sometimes asks about the details.
Apparently they were speaking loudly, because the host’s child started crying
in its cradle. The prince is surprised, as he was not aware of the presence of the
child. He exclaims:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.7 (249)
Evidential category and evidential strategy in Abkhaz 
sa+ra
I
jE-s-ajha+bE-w
it-me-elder-pres:stat:nfin
a-wa+j0-dEw-c60q67a
art-man-big-really
abra
here
dE-q6a-zaap6.
(s)he-be-infer1
‘It turns out (unexpectedly) that there is really a great person here who is
more important than me!’ (DG 175)
Mirative semantics can be reinforced by the use of emphatic words or the
emphatic particle -aj.
(8) A person, having met another character called Arsana after some time,
is perplexed by the fact that Arsana’s hair had turned grey. Though the person
does not doubt the actual exactness of his observation, he expresses his sur-
prise at this fact by means of the inferential form combined with the emphatic
interjection D7Em:
arsana,
Arsana
wE-xE
your-head
%-Sla-zaap6,
it-grey-infer1
D7Em.
interj
‘Arsana, your hair (lit. head) is apparently grey, man!’
(Aristava & Chkadua 1966:154)
(9) The use of the emphatic suffix -aj:
j-a+ba-D7a-sE-m-S7a-wa
it-inter-prev-I-not-evaluate-pres:dyn:nfin
– a-g0E+m+S0a
art-brave
w-ak60-zaap6-aj.
you-be-infer1-emph
‘Why shouldn’t I be surprised – you are evidently (really) a brave soul.’
(Hewitt & Khiba 1998:96, 207)
. Correlation of inferentials with other grammatical categories
.. Tense
As previously stated, the inferential markers are temporally neutral, the bearer
of temporal meanings being the stem. Inferentials I and II possess a symmetri-
cal tense system, Inferential I being used in the first tense group, Inferential II
in the second. In contrast to indicative forms, inferentials lack Future I and Fu-
ture Conditional I, respectively. In narrations, the inferentials refer primarily
to present and past events, future inferentials being quite rare.
(a) Dynamic Verbs. Dynamic verbs designate actions rather than states. Their
marker in positive declarative forms in the First Tense Group is -jt6, which oc-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.8 (250)
 Viacheslav Chirikba
cupies the right-most position in the verb-form (if not followed by the em-
phatic clitic -aj). In the inferential form, the inferential marker replaces the
finite marker, cf. Present dE-r-ga-wa-jt6 ‘they are taking her/him’ vs. dE-r-ga-
wa-zaap6 ‘apparently they are taking her/him’, Aorist dE-r-ga-%-jt6 ‘they took
her/him’ vs. dE-r-ga-zaap6 ‘apparently they took her/him’, Future II dE-r-ga-S-t6
‘they will take her/him’ vs. dE-r-ga-Sa-zaap6 ‘apparently they will take her/him’,
etc. In the Second Tense Group the finite marker is -n, which is replaced in
the inferential form by the suffix -zaarEn, cf. Imperfect dE-r-ga-wa-n ‘they were
taking her/him’ vs. dE-r-ga-wa-zaarEn ‘apparently they were taking her/him’,
Past Indefinite dE-r-ga-n ‘they took her/him and...’ vs. dE-r-ga-zaarEn ‘appar-
ently they took her/him and...’, Future Conditional II dE-r-ga-Sa-n ‘they would
(have) take(n) her/him’ vs. dE-r-ga-Sa-zaarEn ‘apparently they would (have)
take(n) her/him’, etc.
Note that the Future II inferential form is rather rarely used, and the Fu-
ture Conditional II inferential is only theoretically possible, being regarded as
‘artificial’ (cf. Chkadua 1970:75).
(b) Stative Verbs. Stative verbs possess an elementary tense system, consist-
ing of present and past, cf. dE-c0a-wE-p6 ‘(s)he is sleeping’ vs. dE-c0a-zaap6
‘apparently (s)he is sleeping’, dE-c0a-n ‘(s)he was sleeping’ vs. dE-c0a-zaarEn
‘apparently (s)he was sleeping’.
(c) ‘Derived’ Future Tenses. Stative verb stems can form future tenses when
the suffix -zaa is added, but in this case they acquire formally dynamic mor-
phology (cf. Hewitt 1979b:204). Such formations are said to lack inferential
forms, though the ‘Derived’ Future I marker -zaa-p6 (cf. dE-q6a-zaa-p6 ‘(s)he
will be’) is actually the same Inferential I suffix used in the (original) temporal
function (see §3.11). Use of the ‘Derived’ Future I form with a temporal rather
than inferential meaning is quite rare, and here too the shade of inferentiality
is not altogether absent.
(10) mj0a-k6
way-indef.sg
%-a-lE-j-x-wa-jt6,
it-it-prev-he-take.off-prog-dyn:fin
abrEj
this
a-mj0a
art-way
sE-k0-zaap6...
I-be.on.top-infer1
‘He chooses a certain way, I shall be following this way.’
(Aristava & Chkadua 1966:156)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.9 (251)
Evidential category and evidential strategy in Abkhaz 
(11) Sa+ra
I
S0-sE-la-z,
you(pl)-(in)me-be.amidst-imper:stat
Sa+r-g7E
I-and
S0a+ra
you(pl)
s-S0E-la-zaap6.
I-(in)you-be.amidst-infer1
‘Abide in me, and I shall abide in you.’
(John 15.4; cited from Lomtatidze 1988)
The Inferential II suffix can also express temporal (future) semantics, which is
especially clear in sentences containing conditional clauses:
(12) ha+ra
we
ha-q6a-m-za+r,
we-be-not-cond
j-ag7araan
it-many times
%-aj+mE-r-c60a-x7a-zaarEn
they-prev-caus-rob-perf-infer2
arEj
this
S0E-dg7El.
your(pl)-land
‘If it were not for us, they would probably have robbed your land many
times.’ (Ixuu asarkial 18)
These examples are remarkable in the sense that here the evidential forms
shift from pure evidential semantics void of any temporal dimension to the
expression of tense with some evidential extension.
. Negation
Negation adds nothing specific into the formation of evidential forms. In
dynamic verbs the negative particle -m- occupies a pre-radical position (in
present tense a (less preferable) variant is possible with the negation suffix
postposed). As in other languages with negated inferentials, in Abkhaz too
the scope of negation is the action itself, not the source of information, cf.
d-rE-m-ga-wa-zaap6 him/her-they-not-carry-progr-infer1 ‘apparently they
are not taking him/her’, d-rE-m-ga-x7a-zaarEn him/her-they-not-carry-perf-
infer2 ‘apparently they have not taken him/her’, etc. In stative verbs: dE-c0a-
m-zaap6 (s)he-sleep-not-infer1 ‘apparently (s)he is not sleeping’.
. Person
Inferentials in Abkhaz can be used without restriction with all persons, first
person included. When used with the 1st person, the inferential suffix empha-
sizes the distance or detachment between the speaker and their action(s). This
can refer to such situations as dreams, actions carried out under the influence
of alcohol, or when the speaker’s actions have been performed without their
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.10 (252)
 Viacheslav Chirikba
conscious control and come to them as a surprise. The combination of the 1st
person with Inferential often creates mirative overtones. Even when directly
and consciously involved in a certain situation, by using an inferential in the
first person, the speaker undergoes a kind of personality split and, making a
mental sidestep, makes a comment on their own action(s) as if observed or
judged by an outside observer. Examples:
(13) This is a variant of the sentence in (4), this time with the 1st per-
son plural. Being directly involved in the fight, the speaker comments on the
situation:
ha+ra
we
h-nE-(a)j+ba-r-c60a-wa-zaap6.
we-thither-together-caus-exterminate-progr-infer1
‘We are apparently killing each other.’
(14) jE-s-S0a-x7a-zaap6,
it-I-pay-perf-infer1
wE-m-ba-wa-j,
you-not-see-progr-inter
nas,
then
a-para-k0a.
art-money-pl
‘Don’t you see, apparently I have already paid the money.’
(Chkadua 1970:203)
. Mood
Inferentials do not combine with those moods whose markers occupy the same
(final) slot as the inferential suffixes. These are Conditional, Optative, Inten-
tional, (present) Debitive, and Subjunctive. Inferentials and Imperative are also
mutually exclusive, as the latter is based on non-finite forms. At the same time,
there are no restrictions on combining inferentials with those moods which are
marked with prefixes rather than suffixes.
.. The potential category
The potential category, which expresses (im)possibility or (in)capability, is
formed by means of the potential prefix zE-. Inferential and potential markers
can coincide within one verb-form:
(15) jE-s-z-aj+lE-m-k6+aa-%-jt6 vs. jE-s-z-aj+lE-m-k6+aa-zaap6
it-I-pot-prev-not-root-aor-dyn:fin it-I-pot-prev-not-root-infer1
‘I did not understand it.’ ‘Apparently I did not understand it.’
Analytic formation of potential, making use of the auxiliary verb a-l+Sa-ra ‘to
be able, capable’, is also possible:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.11 (253)
Evidential category and evidential strategy in Abkhaz 
(16) a-ca-ra %-jE-l+Sa-wa-jt6 vs. a-ca-ra %-jE-l+Sa-wa-zaap6
art-go-dn it-he-able-progr-dyn:fin art-go-dn it-he-able-progr-infer1
‘He can go.’ ‘Apparently he can go.’
.. The debitive mood
The debitive mood, whose semantics is the expression of necessity or obliga-
tion, is formed by the Conditional plus the present or past form of the copular
verb. The debitive is incompatible with the inferential unless it is formed an-
alytically (as, in particular, in the past tense), whereby the debitive marker is
placed on the main verb, and the inferential marker on the auxiliary.
(17) jE-ca-r %-ak60E-n vs. jE-ca-r %-ak60-zaarEn
it/they-go-cond it-be-past:stat:fin it/they-go-cond it-be-infer2
‘It/they had to go.’ ‘It/they apparently had to go.’
The same principle applies with other auxiliary verbs under the debitive con-
struction. The debitive inferential is also possible when the debitive is formed
by means of the ‘transformative’ suffix -t60E:
(18) jE-ga-t60E-wE-p6 vs. jE-ga-t60E-zaap6
it-carry-deb-pres:stat:fin it-carry-deb-infer1
‘It must be taken.’ ‘Apparently it must be taken.’
.. The pretensive mood
Pretensive mood is formed by adding the pretensive suffix -S0a ‘as if’ to the
stem of the main verb plus an appropriate form of the auxiliary verb. Its main
semantics is to express a semblance of an action or state.
(19) la+r-g7E
she-and
d-aa-gEla-S0a
(s)he-hither-stand.up-as.if
%-l-wE-%-jt6.
it-she-do-aor-dyn:fin
‘She also pretended she were standing up.’
(20) la+r-g7E
she-and
d-aa-gEla-S0a
she-hither-stand.up-as.if
%-l-wE-zaap6.
it-she-do-infer1
‘She also apparently pretended she were standing up.’
.. The nonvolitional mood
Abkhaz has morphological devices to express involuntary, nonvolitional or un-
intentional actions, which can also include the first person. For this purpose the
prefix -amxa- is used, which denotes actions performed without the will of the
referent. Inferentiality can combine with this category.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.12 (254)
 Viacheslav Chirikba
(21) s-amxa-c0a-%-jt6 vs. s-amxa-c0a-zaap6.
I-nvol-sleep-aor-dyn:fin I-nvol-sleep-infer1
‘Involuntarily I fell asleep.’ ‘Apparently I involuntarily fell asleep.’
.. The detrimental mood
Actions which occur to the detriment of the person affected, are marked by the
prefix -c0E-:
(22) jE-s-c0E-j-ga-%-jt6 vs. jE-s-c0E-j-ga-zaap6
it-I-detr-he-take-aor-dyn:fin it-I-detr-he-take-infer1
‘He took it from me against my will.’ ‘Apparently he took it from me
against my will.’
. Restrictions on clause types
Formally inferentials are finite verbs and occur exclusively in declarative (both
positive and negative) main clauses. Inferentials are not possible in relative
(subordinate) clauses, which include nonfinite verb-forms. The only excep-
tions concern finite clauses containing the emphatic suffix -aj (phonetically -ej),
one of the few elements, which can appear after the finite marker. Cf. d-ca-jt6
‘(s)he went’ vs. d-ca-jt6-aj ‘(s)he did go!’ vs. d-ca-zaap6-aj ‘(s)he evidently did
go!’. Adding the emphatic suffix does not change the finite status of the form in
question.
Inferentials are however quite normal in compound sentences where both
clauses contain finite forms:
(23) aY0E
one:hum
jE-zE
he-for
j-aSa-w
it-bitter-pres:stat:nfin
j-ag7E
it-another
jE-zE
he-for
jE-xaa-zaap6,
it-sweet-infer1
aY0E
one:hum
jE-zE
he-for
jE-xaa-w
it-sweet-pres:stat:nfin
j-ag7E
it-another
jE-zE
he-for
j-aSa-zaap6.
it-bitter-infer1
‘What is bitter for someone, appears to be sweet for the other, what is sweet
for someone, appears to be bitter for the other.’
(Aristava & Chkadua 1966:155)
Inferentials are not possible in interrogative or imperative clauses, which are
based on nonfinite verb-forms. On the other hand, inferentials can be used
in echo-questions formed with the help of the interrogative clitic ba, used
when the questioner is seeking confirmation for the statement, and which do
not per se require a non-finite form. Consider, for instance, a statement con-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.13 (255)
Evidential category and evidential strategy in Abkhaz 
taining an inferential form and a reaction to this statement in the form of an
echo-question: a-j0nE-q6a d-ca-zaap6 ‘apparently he went home’; a-j0nE-q6a d-
ca-zaap6 ba? ‘(you say) he apparently went home?’. Note that the clitic ba in
echo-questions brings in a tinge of disbelief.
Inferentials can be combined with quotatives (see example (37) in §5.2).
. Aspect
There are no obvious restrictions on the co-occurrence of inferentials with any
of the aspectual forms, aspectual affixes occupying the slot preceding the fi-
nal position reserved for inferentials. Consider repetitive forms with the suf-
fix -la: d-ca-la-wa-zaap6 ‘(s)he apparently goes regularly’; excessive forms with
the suffix -c0a: dE-pxa+S7a-c0a-zaap6 ‘apparently (s)he is extremely shy’; inten-
sive forms with the suffix -Ya: jE-l-g0+a+pxa-Ya-zaap6 ‘apparently she liked it
very much’; emphatic forms with the suffix -c60q67a: jE-l-g0+a+pxa-c60q67a-zaap6
‘apparently she really liked it’, etc.
. Stylistic remarks
Inferentials are quite usual in all kinds of narratives, especially in stories, fairy-
tales, legends, personal accounts, everyday conversations, and various literary
genres, including prose and poetry. Sometimes folklore texts are introduced by
an inferential form signaling the fact that the narrator heard the story from
somebody else and does not vouch for its actual truth. Consider, for instance,
the initial phrase of the story no. 384 in Anshba’s collection of Abkhaz folklore:
(24) jE-q6a-zaarEn
they-be-infer2
xac6a-k6E-j
man-indef.sg-and
ph0Es-k6E-j.
woman-indef.sg-and
‘There lived reportedly a husband and wife.’ (Anshba 1995:262)
Depending on the context, inferential forms can underline a slight irony, un-
certainty, or distance from the assertion the speaker makes. As well, they can
be used as a ‘challenging’ device to make a narration more vivid, or to focus
attention on important parts of the story.
. Discourse-pragmatic aspects
From the point of view of pragmatic functions, inferentials are characterized by
a high degree of focality: they are more usual in the focus/comment part of the
sentence than in its topical part, which can be seen in the following examples:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.14 (256)
 Viacheslav Chirikba
(25) sa+ra
I
a-Sk6ol-ax7
art-school-dir
s-ca-wa-zaap6.
I-go-progr-infer1
‘Apparently I am going to school.’ (the focus is on the inferential verb)
vs.
(26) sa+ra
I
s-ak60-zaap6
I-be-infer1
a-Sk6ol-ax7
art-school-dir
jE-ca-wa.
who-go-pres:dyn:nfin
‘Apparently it is I who is going to school.’ (the topic is the inferential form
of the copular verb)
. Historical and etymological remarks
Lomtatidze (1955; 1988:183), Aristava and Chkadua (1966:155–156) and He-
witt (1979a) proposed the temporal origin of the inferential suffixes in Abk-
haz and indicated, in particular, their historical connection with future tenses.
More specifically, Hewitt (1979a:91) suggested that the suffixes of Inferentials
I and II were originally the markers of Future I (in the First Tense Group) and
Future Conditional I (in the Second Tense Group) of stative verbs. It is from the
stative Future and stative Future Conditional that they penetrated the dynamic
forms to express the new category, Inferentiality. Following is a discussion of
the origin of inferential markers in some more detail.
.. Suffix -z+aa+p6
The Inferential I suffix consists of three segments: -z+aa+p6. The last of these is
most probably related to the suffix -p6 of dynamic verbs belonging to the First
Tense Group, which serves as the marker of both finiteness and of Future I tense
(s-ca-p6 ‘I shall (shortly) go’). As well, it is probably etymologically connected
with the finite marker -p’ of present stative forms: s-t60a-wE-p6 ‘I am sitting’
(cf. Lomtatidze 1988:142). Lomtatidze (1988:154) quite plausibly suggested
the origin of the element -p6 in all these formations from the copular verb ak60-
‘be’, which has undergone the phonetic transformation k60 > p6.
There is less clarity as to the etymology of the compound segment -z+aa,
regarded by Spruit (1986:105) as the dynamic intransitive root zaa ‘to be’.
Beside inferentials, this element is found in such verbal formations as:
Deverbal Noun (Masdar) of a-q6a-zaa-ra ‘to be, exist’;
Stative and Inversive Verbs: a-ma-zaa-ra ‘to have, possess’;
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.15 (257)
Evidential category and evidential strategy in Abkhaz 
‘Derived’ Future II Stative dE-q6a-zaa-S-t6 ‘he will be’;
and Dynamic Subjunctive: dE-q6a-zaa-j+t6 ‘let him/her be!’; d-ca-zaa-jt6
‘let him/her go!’
Stative Conditional of jE-ma-zaa-ra-zE ‘in order for him to have’
Purpose, Stative Purposive: dE-S7ta-zaa-r(a)+t60 ‘in order to be lying’.
It seems that the intrusion of the element aa into the inferential suffix -zaap6 is
a relatively late phenomenon, as it does not figure in Tapanta Abaza, cf. Tapanta
inferential/probability suffix -za+p6. This can also be confirmed by comparison
with Abkhaz Conditional suffix -za+r (cf. s-ca-za+r ‘if I go’), which contains
the same fricative element as in -z+aa.4
As well, as pointed out by Lomtatidze
(1988:141), the element z+aa used as a stative deverbal noun marker has a
less common variant za, which must represent its older form (cf. such paral-
lel forms as the deverbal abstract noun aps+ta-za-ra and aps+ta-zaa-ra ‘life’
in early Abkhaz texts (John 3.16), as well as stative deverbal noun forms with
-za-ra as used in the Abkhaz-Russian Dictionary published by Marr in 1926,
instead of modern -zaa-ra). These facts suggest the reconstruction of the Com-
mon Abkhaz inferential suffix *-za+p6, preserved unchanged in Tapanta Abaza,
but later complicated in southern Abkhaz by the additional element aa.
With reference to the etymology of -za- in the aforementioned Tapanta
Abaza suffix -za+p6, Genko (1955:139) suggested its derivation from the (unat-
tested) verb *-za, envisaged in such (Abkhaz-)Abaza compounds as pE-za
‘leader’ (cf. pE ‘nose, front’), Ya-nE-za ‘spleen’ (cf. Ya ‘side, rib’), etc. Shakryl
(1961:73) regards *-za as one of the markers of participial forms, whereas
Aristava and Chkadua (1966:154) see in -za- a temporal suffix. According to a
plausible suggestion by Chkadua (1970:290), this element was originally a fea-
ture of stative verbs only, but was later expanded to dynamic verbs as well. She
proposes interpreting the main meaning of -za- as the expression of anteriority.
Lomtatidze (1954:267) connects together -z < *-za- as the marker of dura-
tivity (cf. such stative imperative forms as dE-q6a-z ‘let him be!’), the element
-za in various temporal and aspectual forms, as well as the ‘participial’ suf-
fix -za5
in formations like a-S7ta-za-j0E (art-ground-za-agent suffix) ‘the path
finder’. And in her 1955 article (p. 222–223), Lomtatidze proposes etymolog-
ically connecting the element -za in conditional and other morphemes (thus,
also in inferentials) with the past tense non-finite suffix -z.
As to the original meaning of the suffix -za in all these formations, Lom-
tatidze regards it as the expression of durativity. But such a conclusion probably
needs a more thorough argumentation.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.16 (258)
 Viacheslav Chirikba
Concerning the element -aa-, Lomtatidze (1954:267) suggests its original
meaning was the marker of the future tense, a claim which also needs to be
substantiated. On the other hand, the element -aa- is probably historically re-
lated to the suffix -aa- known as ‘root-extension’, found in such forms as a-
xE+r+k6+aa-ra ‘enclosing around’, a-S7t+pr+aa-ra ‘flying out from beneath’, etc.
.. Suffix -z+aa+rE+n
This suffix contains the segment -z+aa, discussed above and the element -rE+n.
As suggested by Hewitt (1979a:90), the latter is most probably the Future Con-
ditional I (i.e. a past tense of the Future I) suffix of the Second Tense Group
(s-ca-rE+n ‘I would go’), to which the ‘modal’ element -z+aa was added. The
first element in -rE+n is the future suffix, the original unreduced form (-ra)
can be seen in such non-finite forms as s-an-ca-ra ‘when I shall go’ (cf. Hewitt
1979a:90; Lomtatidze 1955). The final -n is probably the past tense marker of
stative verbs (cf. sE-q6a-n ‘I was’). The Common Abkhaz form of this suffix can
be reconstructed as *-za+rE+n.
Whatever the concrete etymological solutions for the elements which form
the inferential suffixes, there seems to be little doubt that they came to be used
to mark the new category of inferentiality due to the semantic expansion of
originally future temporal meanings.
. Evidential strategy
Besides having the distinct evidential category described above, Abkhaz em-
ploys other means to express evidential-like meanings, such as reported, in-
ferred, distanced, etc., which do not form a separate category and thus fall un-
der the rubric of evidential strategy. These are: (a) the quotative particle h0a,
and (b) the reportative verb a-h0a-ra ‘to tell, say’.
. Quotative particle h0a
The quotative particle h0a is an archaic past absolutive of the verb a-h0a-ra ‘to
say’, whose original form must have been *jE-h0a ‘having said it’. The particle
h0a is fully grammaticalized, which is corroborated by the fact that it no longer
takes the object marker jE-, which is obligatory in the past absolutive of transi-
tive verbs, cf. a more regular past absolutive form jE-h0a-nE ‘having said it’. The
grammaticalized character of this particle is even more obvious in the Bzyp di-
alect, where it is often used in a delabialized form (ha). The lack of the object
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.17 (259)
Evidential category and evidential strategy in Abkhaz 
marker in h0a is explained by its usual post-referential position, in which the
3rd person object marker regularly disappears (N.B. even the full form ending
in -nE will lose the initial jE- if its referent immediately precedes it). The origin
of the quotative particle h0a can thus be seen as the fossilization of the past ab-
solutive form of the verb a-h0a-ra ‘to speak’ in an objectless post-referent form
%-h0a (thus d-ca-j-t6 *jE-h0a ‘having said that (s)he left...’ > d-ca-j-t6 %-h0a >
d-ca-j-t6 h0a ‘(s)he reportedly left’).
The quotative particle serves (a) to mark the reported speech (both direct
and indirect), and (b) to mark information received indirectly, e.g. via language
or hearsay. In both cases the invariant meaning of this particle is the reference
to the indirect source of information. Formally, the cases in (b) represent indi-
rect statements embedded into the matrix clause. In (a), the source is explicitly
indicated, while in (b), the source of knowledge is unspecified. Therefore, in
(b), the speaker assumes less responsibility for the information than in (a).
Consider the following examples. In (27), the particle marks the direct
quote containing the hosts’ words, while in (28) and (29) the main meaning of
the particle is to mark the non-firsthand information conveyed by the narrator.
(27) Direct quotation:
“a-sas-c0a
art-guest-pl
%-aa+j-%-[j]t6”
they-come-aor-dyn:fin
h0a
quot
jE-r-aj-g0E+r+J7a-n
it-they-together-happy-pindef
jE-r-pE+la-%-jt6.
they-them-meet-aor-dyn:fin
‘With the words “The guests arrived!” they happily met them.’
(Anshba 239)
(28) Indirect quotation:
d-aa-Ya-wa-m
(s)he-come-emph-progr-neg
h0a
quot
%-j-a-s-h0a-%-jt6.
it-him-about-I-say-aor-dyn:fin
‘I told him that (s)he will not come.’
(29) Embedded indirect statement:
jE-q6a-n
they-be-past:fin
aDEr-jE-pa-c0a
Adzhyr-his-son-pl
h0a
quot
j0E-D7a
two-hum
%-aj+S7-c0a.
art-brother-pl
‘There lived two brothers (reportedly known as) Sons of Adzhyr.’
The quotative particle can co-occur with the Inferential, cf. example (37).
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.18 (260)
 Viacheslav Chirikba
. Reportative vs. introductory verb
The functions of the introductory verb a-h0a-ra ‘to say, speak’ are close to those
of the particle h0a, with which it is etymologically connected. As an intro-
ductory verb indicating the author of a quotation, a-h0a-ra can take all forms
and tenses of dynamic verbs. When used as a reportative device, in narratives,
stories, fairly-tales, etc., the verb a-h0a-ra is always in Aorist, usually in 3sg
hum:masc (jE-jE-h0E-%-jt6 lit. ‘it-he-say-aor-dyn:fin’), but sometimes in the
3pl, which in Abkhaz does not distinguish gender or grammatical noun class
(jE-r-h0E-%-jt6 ‘it-they-say-aor-dyn:fin’). The form jE-r-h0E-%-jt6/jE-jE-h0E-%-jt6
displays certain grammaticalization features: though it is formally third per-
son singular human/masculine, its reference to number or grammatical class
is purely grammatical (i.e. the actual source of the information can be a fe-
male, or more than one person), and it can be translated with an impersonal
as ‘they say’, (French) ‘on dit’, or ‘reportedly’. Its chief meaning is to indicate
the reported, unwitnessed nature of the described event. In narrations, the
introductory and reportative verbs often co-occur within one clause, the in-
troductory verb, which refers to the author of the quote, coming first, and
the (sometimes homophonic) reportative verb, expressing the unwitnessed, re-
ported, non-firsthand character of the described event, following it. Consider
the following examples:
a. Direct quotation with the introductory verb a-h0a-ra ‘to say’:
(30) “s-an
my-mother
d-aa-%-jt6,
(s)he-come-aor-dyn:fin
a-p6at6Ew
art-respect
%-lE-k0-s-c6a-r-a-wE-p6”,
it-her-prev-I-put-cond-be-pres:stat-fin
%-jE-h0a-%-jt6.
it-he-say-aor-dyn:fin
“‘My mother came, I have to show my respect for her,” he said.’
(Anshba 239)
b. Reportative verb jE-jE(/r)-h0E-jt6 ‘he/they said’:
(31) dE-q6a-n,
(s)he-be-past:fin
%-jE-h0E-%-jt6,
it-he-say-aor-dyn:fin
C67k60Ena
boy
x0EC67E-k6.
little-indef.sg
‘There was reportedly (lit. ‘he said’) a little boy.’
(32) amnEj,
that(by.you)
wEbrEj
that(yonder)
%-jac60a-nE
it-star-pabs
jE-q6a+lE-%-jt6,
they-become-aor-dyn:fin
%-r-h0E-jt6.
it-they-say-aor-dyn:fin
‘Those ones reportedly (lit. ‘they said’) turned into stars.’ (Anshba 40)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.19 (261)
Evidential category and evidential strategy in Abkhaz 
Both reportative and introductory verbs can co-occur with the Inferential, cf.
example (37). Note also that in some varieties of Abkhaz, and regularly in the
Bzyp dialect, the vowel a of the verb ‘to say’ (h0a) in the Aorist changes into E
(hence %-jE-h0E-%-jt6 instead of %-jE-h0a-%-jt6).
.. Distancing
In the narrative speech the reportative verb can signify the speaker’s intention
to distance themselves from the information they convey or to emphasize the
distance from the source of information. In order to achieve this, the speaker
often repeats the reportative verb.
Examples:
(33) x-j0E-k6
three-hum-indef.sg
a-J7EC7-c0a,
art-thief-pl
%-jE-h0E-%-jt6,
it-he-say-aor-dyn:fin
aj+c+nE
together
J7EC7+ra
theft
jE-ca-%-jt6,
they-go-aor-dyn:fin
%-jE-h0a-%-jt6.
it-he-say-aor-dyn:fin
‘Three thieves reportedly together went thieving.’ (Anshba 40)
The distinction between the introductory and reportative verb is illustrated by
the following examples. (34) is a dialogue between a man and a woman, (35)
represents an utterance by a goat (in a fairy-tale). All speakers have different
noun class marking:
(34) Man: “h-aj+c-nEq60a-p6”
we-together-walk-fut1
h0a
quot
%-jE-h0a-%-jt6,
it-he-say-aor-dyn:fin
%-jE-h0a-%-jt6.
it-he-say-aor-dyn:fin
Woman: “sa+ra
I
jE-s-taxE-w
what-I-want-pres:nfin
wa+ra
you
w-a-wE-p6”
you-be-pres:stat-fin
%-l-h0a-%-jt6,
it-she-say-aor-dyn:fin
%-jE-h0a-%-jt6.
it-he-say-aor-dyn:fin
‘Man: “Let’s walk through life together”, he reportedly said.
Woman: “The one I want is you”, she reportedly said.’ (Anshba 246)
(35) “sa-ra
I
s-S7ap6E
my-foot
%-p-c60a-wE-p6,
it-prev-break-pres:stat-fin
axa
but
s-nEq60a-n,
I-walk-pabs
r-apx7a
their-front
s-gEla-n
I-stand-pabs
s-ca-wa-t6”,
I-go-prog-dyn:fin
ha
quot
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.20 (262)
 Viacheslav Chirikba
%-a-h0E-%-jt6,
it-it(goat)-say-aor-dyn:fin
%-jE-h0E-%-jt6,
it-he-say-aor-dyn:fin
anEj
that
%-ab.
art-billy-goat
“‘My foot is broken, but (anyway) I do walk and, standing before them
(the herd), I (keep on) going,” having said, the billy-goat reportedly said.’
In (34) and (35) the introductory verb refers to the authors of the quoted
words and reflects their gender/noun class (%-jE-h0a-%-jt6 ‘he(hum:masc) said’,
%-l-h0a-%-jt6 ‘she(hum:fem) said’, %-a-h0E-jt6 ‘it (Nhum) said’). By contrast, the
reportative verb, which is formally the aorist form of 3sg hum:masc (%-jE-h0a-
%-jt), does not indicate a specific referent, and serves only to mark the hearsay
source of an utterance.
Consider also the example where both inferential and the ‘distancing’ re-
portative verbs are used in one sentence, obviously putting extra emphasis on
the ‘distanced’ character of the information:
(36) wEs
such
wa+j0E+S7a-s
character-as
%-jE-ma-zaarEn,
it-he-have-infer2
%-jE-h0E-%-jt6.
it-he-say-aor-dyn:fin
‘He apparently did possess such a character, as they say.’ (Anshba 242)
Some narrations can be excessively loaded with reportative verbs and quotative
particles, creating a specific ‘hearsay’ or ‘distanced’ narrative style.
. Evidentiality: Some typological and areal remarks
. The origin of evidentiality
The cross-linguistic comparison of the origin of evidential systems shows that
in the majority of cases they result from a semantic extension or transformation
of temporal (more specifically, perfect) tenses. Comrie (1976:110) provides an
explanation for the connection between evidentiality and the perfect tense: ‘the
semantic similarity (not, of course, identity) between perfect and inferential
lies in the fact that both categories present an event not in itself, but via its
results’.
Abkhaz seems to be one of the few languages where evidentiality is histor-
ically based on future, not on perfect. Other cases include Romanian, where
the presumptive is formed from the bases of the future or conditional auxil-
iary or the subjunctive of the future particle plus the non-finite form fi ‘be’
and the gerund or past participle of the main verb (cf. Friedman 1998). Con-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.21 (263)
Evidential category and evidential strategy in Abkhaz 
sider also Afghan Persian dialects, where a periphrastic ‘future tense’ is used
as a basis for inferential presumptive or speculative modes (Perry 2000:243).
A close analogue to the Abkhaz suffix -zaap6 seems to be the evidential suf-
fix -boti/-beti in Hill Patwin, a Wintun language of North America, which is
analyzed as a combination of the auxiliary -bo/-be ‘to be (locational)’ with
the definite future suffix. In some contexts the original future sense of this
evidential suffix can still be seen. Despite its origin, the suffix was general-
ized to apply to predicates in the present or past tenses (cf. Whistler 1986:70–
71). Consider also evidentials in Akha (Tibeto-Burman), where some mark-
ers evolved from copulas with (assumptive and speculative) future meanings
(Thurgood 1986:221–222), the West Greenlandic sentential affix with infer-
ential semantics -(sima)ssa ‘inferred’, which contains the future marker -ssa
(Fortescue, this volume), and some Latin American varieties of Spanish, where,
under the influence of Quechua, the future is developing an evidential reading
(Escobar 1997).
That future as much as perfect can be used for the formation of an evi-
dential category is not by itself something extraordinary.6
In his 1979a paper
Hewitt explains the connection between inferentiality and the future tense:
[I]f an action is inferred to have occurred, to be occurring or to be likely to
occur, the possibility remains that the inference may be proved wrong by the
subsequent acquisition of more information. This is precisely and necessarily
the case with each and every pronouncement concerning an event in the fu-
ture; the same lack of certainty attaches to statements about the future which
attaches to descriptions of events not witnessed, or being witnessed, by the
speaker personally. (p. 91)
There is thus nothing unusual in the future tense serving as a basis for the
formation of the inferential category. What is interesting is that perfect seems
to be by far a much more frequently used tense than future as a basis for an
evidential category, as demonstrated by the majority of languages in which this
category occurs. The connection between perfect and evidential, called ‘pan-
Eurasian evidential perfect’ by Nichols (1986:253), is sometimes even regarded
as a linguistic (near) universal (cf. Bulut 2000:148; Johanson 2000:63).
In the Caucasian linguistic area, where the evidential category is found
in the majority of the indigenous languages (i.e. both North Caucasian and
Kartvelian), I am aware of only Abkhaz where this category is historically based
on the future tense. The closely related Circassian shows an intermediate situ-
ation: in Common Circassian the inferential suffix *-Ja-n was built on the ba-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.22 (264)
 Viacheslav Chirikba
sis of the perfective suffix -Ja plus the future marker -n, cf. Adyghe k60a-Ja-n,
Kabardian k60a-Ja-n-2 ‘apparently he went’ (Kumakhov 1989:199).
It seems that the semantic invariant which unites the perfect and future
tenses, and which makes it possible to use them to form the evidential category,
is the time distance between the event and the speech act describing this event,
and the impossibility of verifying the information about the (past or future)
event by direct observation.
. Distancing category
Among the views concerning the nature of evidentiality two major opinions
prevail: to regard this category as referring to (a) the source of information,
or (b) to the speaker’s attitude towards the information. Without going into
discussion of these (conflicting) views which reflect the complex phenomenon
of evidentiality, I would emphasize the role of distance as critical in the expla-
nation of the nature of evidentiality, which has been pointed out by a num-
ber of authors. Chkadua (1970:201–202) implicitly points to the role of dis-
tance while describing the semantics of inferentials in Abkhaz. In her treat-
ment of evidentiality, Kozintseva (1994:95) speaks about ‘self-distancing of the
speaker from the situation, about which a surprise is being expressed’. Kibrik
and Testelets (1999:230–233) in their description of evidentiality in Tsakhur
use the term ‘effekt otstranenija’ (the effect of keeping away), while Lazard
(1985) demonstrates the relevance of the notion of distance in explaining the
various meanings as conveyed by the Persian ‘distant past’.
The importance of the notion of distance as an essential semantic compo-
nent inherent in the phenomenon of evidentiality and probably also of some
other categories (such as mirativity) perhaps necessitates the postulation of a
special distancing strategy or category (the corresponding noun being distan-
cive). The term would mean that by using certain grammatical or lexical means
the speaker can distance himself from the information he conveys, disclaim re-
sponsibility for the truthfulness or exactness of his statement or defer authority
over his statement to somebody else. In terms of time specification, the speaker
might refer to past or future events which are either already not directly ob-
servable, or are not yet observable. In distancing terms, evidentiality can be
regarded as one step forward from objective reality (realis) towards subjective
reality (irrealis).
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.23 (265)
Evidential category and evidential strategy in Abkhaz 
Distancive:
neutral/unmarked: the speaker assumes full authority over his statement,
he is, or speaks as being, a direct witness of an event.
distancing: the speaker disclaims responsibility for his statement
either by shifting it to someone else (reported speech),
or by using evidential markers.
For example, in Abkhaz narrations the neutral/unmarked degree is character-
ized by present, simple past/aorist, or other tenses, cf. d-aa-wa-jt6 ‘(s)he is com-
ing/comes’, d-aa-%-jt6 ‘(s)he came’, etc. The distancing is expressed (a) by us-
ing quotatives (d-aa-jt6 h0a %-jE-h0E-jt6/jE-s-aha-jt6 ‘he said/I heard that (s)he
came’) or (b) by using the inferential form (d-aa-zaap6 ‘presumably/it looks as
if/apparently (s)he came’). The following example shows a combination of in-
ferential, quotative particle and introductory and reportative verbs, which has
an accumulative distancing effect:
(37) “waZ0E
now
d-aa-zaap6”
(s)he-come-infer1
h0a
quot
%-jE-h0E-%-jt6,
it-he-say-aor-dyn:fin
%-jE-h0E-%-jt6.
it-he-say-aor-dyn:fin
“Now (s)he apparently came,” he reportedly said.
. Areal aspects
While dealing with languages within one linguistic area it is always a dilemma
whether to treat a certain shared trait as a contact-induced or independently
formed phenomenon.In the case of evidentiality in the Caucasus, this dilemma
seems to be almost unsolvable, as the majority, if not all indigenous Cau-
casian languages possess the evidential category in one form or another. At
least in some Caucasian languages evidentiality is an inherited category. In
other cases, when it can be shown to be a relatively recent phenomenon, its
appearance can be tentatively attributed to the influence of genetically related
neighbouring languages. As well, some Caucasian idioms had quite close con-
tact with Turkic languages which have this category and from which it could
have been borrowed.
There is a tendency in the Balkans, Caucasus and Central Asia to hold the
Turkic languages responsible for the development of the evidential category.
In a number of cases this explanation can obviously be justified, cf., for in-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.24 (266)
 Viacheslav Chirikba
stance, Friedman (2000:357) for the description of the situation in the Balkans.
According to Bulut (2000):
With regard to Turco-Iranian language contact, the Turkic influence has been
held responsible for certain changes in the tense-aspect system of a number
of Iranian languages, which led to the formation (grammaticalization) of the
so-called inferential categories. (p. 147)
Kozintseva (2000:414) thinks that the development of evidentiality in East-
ern Armenian is partially explained by areal contact with Iranian and Turkic
languages (cf. also Donabedian 2001). Discussing evidentiality in Georgian,
Boeder (2000:277) regards Turkish influence as a possible stimulating factor
in the development of this category in both Georgian and the related Megre-
lian. As for the other Kartvelian language, Svan, which was developing without
any direct influence from Turkish, Boeder suggests here the mediating role of
Megrelian: if the Megrelian evidential system was developed partly due to Tur-
kic language contact, this “may have been a mediating model for Svan” (Boeder
2000:277; cf. also Friedman 2000:357).
Whereas for certain cases the Turkic influence can indeed be regarded as
relevant, the problem is that in some Caucasian languages the evidential cat-
egory is likely to have been formed before any significant contact with Turkic
languages had taken place. This is certainly the case with the West Caucasian
languages. In both Abkhaz and Circassian evidentiality is an inherited cate-
gory, which can be reconstructed for both Proto-Abkhaz and Proto-Circassian
periods (see §§3.11 and 5.1 above). The time depth of both proto-languages
can be estimated at ca. 8th–9th centuries AD. Though Proto-Circassian might
have had some areal contacts with the Kypchak branch of the Turkic languages,
like Crimean Tatar or early Karachay-Balkar, these were not prominent in the
time of the existence of Proto-Circassian. On the other hand, Proto-Abkhaz
had contacts with Byzantine Greek, Alanic (Proto-Ossetic) and Kartvelian lan-
guages, but not with Turkic languages. Any discernible Turkish presence in
Abkhazia can be traced back to a period not earlier than 16th century, when
Ottoman Turkey had established its hegemony over the Caucasian Black Sea
coast. This means that at least Circassian and Abkhaz formed this category
independently of any foreign (specifically Turkic) influence.
It is surprising that Ubykh, the West Caucasian language geographically
situated between Circassian and Abkhaz, which both possess the evidential cat-
egory, does not have any traces of evidentiality (cf. Charachidzé 1989:402). In-
terestingly, in an Ubykh text translated from Abkhaz and published by Dumézil
(1967:147–156), the Abkhaz inferential form ak6E %-l-taxE-zaap6 ‘one it-she-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.25 (267)
Evidential category and evidential strategy in Abkhaz 
want-infer1’ = ‘she apparently wants something’ is translated into Ubykh
as za-g0ara q6aSa-JE-n CE+ma ‘she probably wants something’, i.e. with epis-
temic CE+ma ‘probably’. Given that Ubykh served as a ‘bridge’ between the
Circassian- and Abkhaz-speaking areas, the majority of Ubykhs being bi- or
even tri-lingual, it seems surprising that Circassian and Abkhaz have failed to
induce the formation of the evidential category in Ubykh, otherwise heavily
influenced by its sister-languages (especially by Circassian).
The evidential system in Georgian differs from that of other Kartvelian
languages. As noted by Hewitt (1979a:87–88), in Georgian the semantic fea-
ture of evidentiality is restricted to the perfect tense-group (i.e. perfect and
pluperfect), ‘and even then these tenses are not, of necessity, endowed with this
feature’. By contrast, in Svan, Megrelian and Laz evidentiality is not restricted
to perfect tenses, extending to other tenses as well (cf. Hewitt 1979a: 87–88).
In this sense evidentiality in Georgian is typologically closer to that present
in the neighbouring Armenian, where it is also restricted to perfective tenses.
Incidentally, by analogy with split ergativity in Georgian and some other lan-
guages, which have ergative construction in past tenses and nominative in non-
past tenses, one can, in a similar fashion, call the Georgian or Armenian type
of evidentiality ‘split evidentiality’.
The situation in Megrelian, which possesses a fully generalized system of
inferentials not restricted to perfect tenses, more closely resembles the situation
in the neighbouring Abkhaz, rather than in the related Georgian. The question
arises, therefore, whether the influence of Abkhaz (as much as Turkish), could
be held responsible for the formation of the tense-neutral type of evidentiality
system in Megrelian.
Notes
. I would like to extend my sincere gratitude to G. Hewitt, Z. Khiba and L. Kulikov for
useful comments and suggestions on the first draft of this chapter.
. The suffix -wa- is regarded either as a dynamic, or as a present tense marker. According
to Hewitt (1979a:89, fn) it must more correctly be determined as the non-stative marker. I
gloss it here as ‘progressive’, as it refers to continuous non-stative actions.
. A dummy object required by the preverb.
. The digraph aa represents an underlying voiced laryngeal (5) realized as a long O. Abkhaz
does not tolerate vocalic clusters, therefore the combination za+aa [za+O] inevitably yields
z+aa [zO].
. In Circassian its possible cognate is the present absolutive suffix -ze: k60e-ze ‘going’.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.26 (268)
 Viacheslav Chirikba
. A rare case of evidentiality based on the 3sg present form of the verb ‘to be’ in Chinese
Pidgin Russian is described by Nichols (1986).
References
Aristava, S. K. (1982). Problema prostogo predlozhenija v abxazskom jazyke. [The problem of
a simple sentence in Abkhaz.] Tbilisi: Tbilisi University.
Aristava, Š. K’., & Chkadua, L. P’. (1966). Apsua bEzS0a (afonet6ik6ei amorfologiei).
Alek6ciak0a rk6urs. [The Abkhaz Language (Phonetics and Morphology). Lectures.] Aq60a:
AlaSara.
Boeder, W. (2000). Evidentiality in Georgian. In L. Johanson & B. Utas (Eds.), Evidentials.
Turkic, Iranian and Neighbouring Languages [Empirical Approaches to Language
Typology 24] (pp. 275–328). Berlin, New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Bulut, C. (2000). Indirectivity in Kurmanji. In L. Johanson & B. Utas (Eds.), Evidentials.
Turkic, Iranian and Neighbouring Languages [Empirical Approaches to Language
Typology 24] (pp. 147–184). Berlin, New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Charachidzé, G. (1989). Ubykh. In B. G. Hewitt (Ed.), The Indigenous Languages of the
Caucasus [Volume 2, The North West Caucasian languages] (pp. 359–459). Delmar,
New York: Caravan Books.
Chkadua, L. P’. (1970). Sistema vremen i osnovnyx modal’nyx obrazovanij v abxazsko-
abazinskix dialektax. [The system of tenses and main modal formations in Abkhaz-Abaza
dialects.] Tbilisi: Mecniereba.
Comrie, B. (1976). Aspect. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Donabedian, A. (2001). Towards a semasiological account of evidentials: An enunciation
approach of -er in Modern Western Armenian. Journal of Pragmatics, 22, 421–442.
Dumézil, G. (1967). Documents anatoliens sur les langues et les traditions du Caucase, V.
Études Abkhaz. [Anatolian documents of the language and traditions of the Caucasus,
Volume V, Studies of Abkhaz.] Bibliothéque archéologique et historique de l’Institut
Français d’Archéologie d’Istanbul, XXI. Paris.
Escobar, A. M. (1997). From Time to Modality in Spanish in Contact with Quechua.
Hispanic Linguistics, 9(1), 64–99.
Friedman, V. (1998). The Grammatical Expression of Presumption and Related Concepts
in Balkan Slavic and Balkan Romance. In M. Flier & A. Timberlake (Eds.), American
Contributions to the 12th International Congress of Slavists (pp. 390–405). Bloomington:
Slavica.
—— (2000). Confirmative/nonconfirmative in Balkan Slavic, Balkan Romance, and
Albanian with additional observations on Turkish, Romani, Georgian, and Lak. In
L. Johanson & B. Utas (Eds.), Evidentials. Turkic, Iranian and Neighbouring Languages
[Empirical Approaches to Language Typology 24] (pp. 329–366). Berlin, New York:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Genko, A. N. (1955). Abazinskij jazyk. Grammaticheskij ocherk narechija Tapanta. [The Abaza
language. A grammatical description of the Tapanta dialect.] Moskva-Leningrad: AN
SSSR.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.27 (269)
Evidential category and evidential strategy in Abkhaz 
Hewitt, B. G. (1979a). The expression of ‘inferentiality’ in Abkhaz. Journal of Linguistics, 15,
87–92.
—— (1979b). (in collaboration with Z. K. Khiba). Abkhaz [Lingua Descriptive Studies,
Volume 2]. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
Hewitt, B. G., & Khiba, Z. K. (1998). Abkhaz Newspaper Reader (with supplements).
Maryland, USA: Dunwoody Press.
Johanson, L. (2000). Turkish indirectives. In L. Johanson & B. Utas (Eds.), Evidentials.
Turkic, Iranian and Neighbouring Languages [Empirical Approaches to Language
Typology 24] (pp. 61–87). Berlin, New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Johanson, L., & Utas, B. (Eds.). (2000). Evidentials. Turkic, Iranian and Neighbouring
Languages [Empirical Approaches to Language Typology 24]. Berlin, New York:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Kibrik, A. E., & Testelets, J. G. (Eds.). (1999). Elementy tsaxurskogo jazyka vtipologicheskom
osveshchenii. [Elements of Tsakhur from a typological perspective.] Moskva: Nasledie.
Kozintseva, N. (1994). Kategorija evidentsial’nosti (problemy tipologicheskogo anali-
za). [The category of evidentiality (problems of typological analysis).] Voprosy
jazykoznanija, 3, 92–104.
—— (2000). Perfect forms as a means of expressing evidentiality in Modern Eastern
Armenian. In L. Johanson & B. Utas (Eds.), Evidentials. Turkic, Iranian and Neigh-
bouring Languages [Empirical Approaches to Language Typology 24], (pp. 401–417).
Berlin, New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Kumakhov, M. (1989). Sravnitel’no-istoricheskaja grammatika adygskix (cherkesskix) jazykov.
[Historical comparative grammar of Adyg (Circassian) languages.] Moskva: Nauka.
Lazard, G. (1985). L’inférenciel ou passé distancié en Persan. [The inferential or distant past
in Persian.] Studia Iranica, 14, 27–42.
—— (2000). Le médiatif: considerations théoriques et application à l’iranien. [The
mediative: theoretical considerations and application to Iranian.] In L. Johanson &
B. Utas (Eds.), Evidentials. Turkic, Iranian and Neighbouring Languages (pp. 209–228).
Berlin, New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Lomtatidze, K. V. (1954). St’at’ik’uri da dinamik’uri zmnebi apxazurshi. [Stative and
dynamic verbs in Abkhaz.] Iberijsko-Kavkazskoe Jazykoznanie, 6, 257–271.
—— (1955). Apxazuri zmnis dziritad dro-k’ilota sist’ema. [The main temporal and mood
system in Abkhaz.] Iberijsko-Kavkazskoe Jazykoznanie, 7, 207–227.
—— (1988). Apsua bEzS0a azc6aarak0a. I. [The Problems of the Abkhaz Language. Volume
I.] Aq60a: AlaSara.
Marr, N. J. (1926). Abkhazsko-russkij slovar’ (Posobije k lektsijam i v issledovatel’skoj rabote).
[Abkhaz-Russian dictionary. (An aide to lectures and research)]. Leningrad. Izdanie
Akademii abkhazskogo jazyka i literatury.
Nichols, J. (1986). The Bottom Line: Chinese Pidgin Russian. In W. Chafe & J. Nichols
(Eds.), Evidentiality: the linguistic coding of epistemology (pp. 239–257). Norwood, NJ:
Ablex.
Perry, J. R. (2000). Epistemic verb forms in Persian of Iran, Afghanistan and Tajikistan. In
L. Johanson & B. Utas (Eds.), Evidentials. Turkic, Iranian and Neighbouring Languages
[Empirical Approaches to Language Typology 24] (pp. 229–257). Berlin, New York:
Mouton de Gruyter.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.28 (270)
 Viacheslav Chirikba
Shakryl, K. S. (1961). Affiksacija v abxazskom jazyke. [Affixation in Abkhaz.] Sukhum:
Abgosizdat.
Spruit, A. (1986). Abkhaz Studies. Leiden.
Sumbatova, N. (1999). Evidentiality, transitivity and split ergativity. Evidence from Svan. In
W. Abraham & L. Kulikov (Eds.), Tense-Aspect, Transitivity and Causativity (pp. 63–95).
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Tatevosov, S. G. (1998). Kategorija evidentsial’nosti v dagestanskix jazykax: nekotorye
tipologicheskie nabljudenija. [The category of evidentiality in Daghestanian languages:
some typological observations.] [Abstracts of reports.] 9th International Colloquium of
Caucasian Studies, 202–204. Republic of Daghestan, Makhachkala.
Thurgood, G. (1986). The Nature and Origins of the Akha Evidential System. In W. Chafe
& J. Nichols (Eds.), Evidentiality: the linguistic coding of epistemology (pp. 214–222).
Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Uslar, P. (1887). Etnografija Kavkaza. [Ethnography of the Caucasus.] Tiflis: Izdanie
Upravlenija Kavkazskago Uchebnago Okruga.
Whistler, K. W. (1986). Evidentials in Patwin. In W. Chafe & J. Nichols (Eds.), Evidentiality:
the linguistic coding of epistemology (pp. 60–74). Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Texts
Anshba. Apsuaa rfol7klor. Artur AnSba ianc6amtak0a. Eik0EirSeit6 Zurab D7ap6Eua. Anauk6at60
redak6t6or Vladislav ArYEnba. [Abkhazian folklore. Collections of Artur Anshba. Edited
by Zurab Dzhapua. Scientific editor Vladislav Ardzinba.] Aq60a, 1995.
DG. Dmit6ri Gulia. Ialk6aau. [Collected works.] Aq60a: AlaSara, 1973.
DG (1985). DErmit6 Gulia. Ij0Emtak0a reizga. 5 at6om. [Collected works. Vol. 5.] Aq60a:
AlaSara, 1985.
Ixuu asarkial. RuS7ni D7op6ua. Ixuu asark67al. Ap6iesak0a. [Rushni Dzhopua. The Wounded
Bell. Plays.] Aq60a: AlaSara, 1976.
John. Ihak0itu Iisus Xrist6os Ievangelia Ck7a. Matfei, Mark6ozEi, Luk6ai, IoannEi irEq6nEt60.
[The Sacred Gospel of our Saviour Jesus Christ. According to Matthew, Mark, Luke and
John. Reprinted by Oriental Biblical Institute.]
Kart-Tiflis: Tipografija Kantseliarii Namestnika E.I.V. na Kavkaze [Press of the Office of
Governor EIV in the Caucasus]. 1912. Reprinted by Oriental Biblical Institute, 1975.
Marr. Apsua fol7k6lor amat6erialk0a (ak6ademik6 N. I. Marr iarxivaq6nEt60). Ak67Epx7 jazirxieit6,
alagaZ0ei azg0atak0ei ij0it6 Sergei ZEx0ba. [Materials on Abkhaz folklore (from the
archive of the Academician N.I. Marr). Edited, forwarded and commented by Sergei
Zykhuba.] Aq60a: AlaSara, 1967.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.29 (271)
Evidential category and evidential strategy in Abkhaz 
Correspondences between the special symbols adopted here in the
Caucasian transcription and the SIL IPA:
SIL-IPA Caucasian Description
b b voiced bilabial stop
p p voiceless (aspirated) bilabial stop
p’ p6 voiceless glottalized bilabial stop
dz Y voiced dental affricate
dz Y0 voiced dental labialized affricate
d D voiced retroflex alveolar affricate
d D7 voiced alveolar palatalized affricate
ts c voiceless dental affricate
ts c0 voiceless dental labialized affricate
ts’ c6 voiceless dental glottalized affricate
ts’ c60 voiceless dental glottalized labialized affricate
d d voiceless dental stop
d d0 voiceless dental labialized stop
 g voiced velar stop
 g7 voiced velar palatalized stop
 g0 voiced velar labialized stop
h h voiceless laryngeal
h h0 voiceless labialized laryngeal
j j palatal semi-vowel
j j0 palatal labialized semi-vowel
k k velar voiceless (aspirated) stop
k k7 velar voiceless (aspirated) palatalized stop
k k0 velar voiceless (aspirated) labialized stop
k’ k6 velar voiceless glottalized stop
k’ k67 velar glottalized palatalized stop
k’ k60 velar glottalized labialized stop
q’ q6 uvular glottalized stop
q’ q67 uvular glottalized palatalized stop
q’ q60 uvular glottalized labialized stop
 S retroflex voiceless alveolar fricative
 S7 voiceless alveolar palatalized fricative
 S0 voiceless alveolar labialized fricative
t t voiceless (aspirated) dental stop
t t0 voiceless (aspirated) labialized dental stop
t’ t6 glottalized dental stop
t’ t60 glottalized labialized dental stop
w w bilabial semi-vowel
	 x uvular voiceless fricative
	 x7 uvular voiceless palatalized fricative
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:31/01/2003; 9:46 F: TSL5411.tex / p.30 (272)
 Viacheslav Chirikba
SIL-IPA Caucasian Description
	 x0 uvular voiceless labialized fricative
 Z retroflex voiced alveolar fricative
 Z7 voiced alveolar palatalized fricative
 Z0 voiced alveolar labialized fricative

 E Schwa
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.1 (273)
Chapter 12
Evidentiality in Turkic
Lars Johanson
. Introduction
The present chapter aims at summarising the essential features of the grammat-
ical categories of evidentiality found in Turkic languages. Other epistemic cate-
gories such as presumptives and dubitatives will not be included. The data will
be dealt with along the principles suggested in Chapter 1, with special regard to
the distinctive devices of each particular system type. Systems will be taken to
be paradigmatic sets of evidential forms, fitting together in a contrastive way,
systematically opposed to each other with respect to their functions.
Since the survey concerns a whole language family, numerous language-
specific details will be omitted. Today’s Turkic-speaking world extends from
Turkey and its neighbours in the Southwest, to Eastern Turkistan and further
into China in the Southeast. From here it stretches to the Northeast, via South-
ern and Northern Siberia up to the Arctic Ocean, and finally to the North-
west, across Western Siberia and Eastern Europe. Most Turkic languages may
be classified as belonging to a Southwestern, a Northwestern, a Southeastern or
a Northeastern branch. Khalaj in Central Iran and Chuvash in the Volga region
constitute separate branches. Of the peripheral languages in the Southeast, Yel-
low Uyghur and Fu-yü are related to dialects of the Northeastern branch, and
Salar to the Southwestern branch.
Turkish examples will be cited according to the official script of Turkey.
Quotations from other languages will be given in traditional Turcological tran-
scription. In the standardised morpheme notation, capital letters and segments
in brackets indicate morphophonemic variation. Thus, I and A stand for har-
monic variation of high and low vowels, respectively. In the examples, mor-
phemes will be divided by hyphens, though this does not correspond to the
orthographic practice in the languages concerned.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.2 (274)
 Lars Johanson
. Indirectivity as an evidential category
Despite system differences, almost all known older and recent stages of Tur-
kic possess the grammatical means of expressing indirectivity. This firmly in-
tegrated cognitive category covers various notions traditionally referred to as
‘hearsay’, ‘inferential’, etc. It implies that the statement is ‘indirect’ in the sense
that the narrated event En
is not stated directly, but in an indirect way, by ref-
erence to its reception by a conscious subject, a recipient R. This core meaning
may be paraphrased ‘as R becomes (became, etc.) or is (was, etc.) aware of En
’.
The result is two-layered information: ‘it is stated that En
is acknowledged by
R’. The recipient may be the speaker as a participant of the speech event, or a
participant of the narrated event, e.g. a protagonist in a narrative.
Examples: Turkish Eşek öl-üyor-muş, Uyghur Išek öl-üwėt-iptu [donkey
die-intra-ic] ‘The donkey is/was obviously dying’, Turkish Eşek öl-müş,
Uyghur Išek öl-üptu [donkey die-ipast] ‘The donkey has/had obviously died’.
The notion of indirectivity is in accordance with the crosslinguistic defini-
tion of evidentiality as ‘stating the existence of a source of evidence for some
information’. The crucial element of indirectivity, the presentation of an event
‘by reference to its reception by a conscious subject’, is certainly not unique to
Turkic. It may be basic to many other evidentiality systems, and even qualify as
a crosslinguistic definition of evidentials (see Comrie 2000:1).
. Sources
Specification of the source of information – the way in which the event is ac-
knowledged by R – is not criterial for indirectivity as such. The reception may
be realised through (i) hearsay, (ii) inference, or (iii) perception.
i. Reportive uses: ‘En
or its effect is reported to R’. The basis of knowledge
is a foreign source, reported speech, hearsay, e.g. Turkish Bakan hasta-
ymış (minister sick-ic) ‘The minister is reportedly sick’, said by some-
body informed about the sickness. English translation equivalents include
reportedly, allegedly, as they say/said, etc.
ii. Inferential uses: ‘En
or its effect is inferred by R’. The basis of knowledge is
pure reflection, logical conclusion, e.g. Turkish Uyu-muş-um (sleep-ipast-
1sg) ‘I have obviously slept’, said by somebody just waking up. English
translation equivalents include as far as R understands/understood, etc.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.3 (275)
Evidentiality in Turkic 
iii. Perceptive uses: ‘En
or its effect is perceived by R’. The basis is first-hand
knowledge, direct sensory perception of the event or indirect perception
on the basis of traces or results, e.g. Turkish İyi çal-ıyor-muş (good play-
intra-ic) ‘(S)he is, as I hear, playing well’, said by somebody just lis-
tening. English translation equivalents include it appears/appeared that, it
turns/turned out that, as R can/could see, hear, etc.
All these readings can be translated by evidently, obviously, etc. If the Turkish
sentence Ali bu-nu bil-iyor-muş [A. this-acc know-intra-ic] is rendered as
‘Ali evidently knows/knew this’, evidently may be interpreted as judging from
(i) hearsay, (ii) inference, or (iii) appearance.
In their perceptive uses, indirectives express that the eventor its effect turns
out to be the case, becomes manifest, visible, or apprehended through one of
the senses and thus open to the recipient’s mind. These uses cannot be de-
rived from reportive or inferential meanings or be subsumed under ‘non-first-
hand knowledge’. Indirectivity markers thus do not fit into evidential schemes
distinguishing between ‘the speaker’s non-firsthand and firsthand informa-
tion’. Their primary task is not to express the foreign origin of the speaker’s
knowledge.
Some more elaborated Turkic systems distinguish between ‘reported’ and
‘non-reported’ (inferential/perceptive) indirectivity. There are, however, no
systematic differences relating to other types of sources, e.g. visual versus other
kinds of sensory information.
. Marked and unmarked terms
Turkic languages display basic contrasts between marked indirectives and
their unmarked counterparts. Functionally marked terms, expressing the ev-
idential notions explicitly, stand in paradigmatic contrast to non-evidentials.
Thus, Turkish exhibits items signalling indirectivity, e.g. gel-miş [come-
ipast] ‘has obviously come/obviously came’ and gel-iyor-muş [come-intra-
ic] ‘is/was obviously coming, obviously comes’. It has corresponding un-
marked items such as gel-di [come-dpast] ‘has come/came’, gel-iyor [come-
intra] ‘is coming/comes’.
Although the relations between marked and unmarked terms vary across
languages, the unmarked ones always exhibit neutral uses in cases where the
speaker considers the evidential distinction unessential and thus chooses not
to use it. The widespread opinion that unmarked items such as gel-di ‘has
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.4 (276)
 Lars Johanson
come/came’ consistently signal ‘direct experience’ or ‘visual evidence’ is in-
correct. Unmarked items simply do not signal that the event is stated in an
indirect way, i.e. acknowledged by a recipient by means of report, inference or
perception.
. Formal types of markers
The coding of indirectivity in Turkic is ‘scattered’, morphologically realised by
two types of markers:
i. Inflectional markers: Verbal suffixes filling obligatory slots and opposed to
other inflectional morphemes, e.g. -miš, -gan, -ibdir.
ii. Copula particles: Enclitic or suffixed elements, occurring after predicate
cores, filling non-obligatory slots and opposed to zero forms, e.g. ermiš,
erken.
. Turkish examples
Turkish possesses the simple inflectional marker -mIş, which is suffixed to ver-
bal stems and marks main clauses. It is capable of carrying high pitch. It is
a rather stable marker of indirectivity, mostly with past time reference, e.g.
gül-
müş [laugh-ipast] ‘(has) evidently laughed’ (gül- ‘to laugh’ + -mIş). It
is homonymous with the postterminal participle suffix -mIş, which does not,
however, express indirectivity.
Turkish also possesses the copula particle imiş, which cannot be added to
verbal stems, but may follow nominals, including nominal stems of the verb.
It is not capable of carrying high pitch, a characteristic of enclitic particles.
Like its equivalents in other Turkic languages, it is temporally indifferent, i.e.
ambiguous between past and present time reference, and a stable marker of
indirectivity. Since imiş normally exhibits suffixed allomorphs in the shape of
-(y)mIş, some of its written realisations coincide with those of the inflectional
marker -mIş, e.g. 
gülmüş [rose-ic] ‘it is/was evidently a rose’ (gül ‘rose’ + imiş).
In spoken language, the variants of the two morphemes are distinguished by
different pitch patterns (cf. Csató 2000a).
This copula particle may, for example, form indirective intraterminals, i.e.
presents and imperfects, e.g. gel-iyor-muş [come-intra-ic] ‘is/was evidently
arriving’, prospectives such as gel-ecek-miş [come-prosp-ic] ‘will/would evi-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.5 (277)
Evidentiality in Turkic 
dently arrive’ and unequivocally indirective postterminals such as gel-miş-miş
[come-post-ic] ‘has/had reportedly arrived’.
. Aspectual values
The deceptive similarity of certain allomorphs has led linguists to confuse the
two markers -mIş and imiş, referring to both as ‘the suffix -miş’, allegedly at-
tachable to both verbal and nominal stems, or to speak of an ‘evidential perfect’
that would include both markers. In view of such misunderstandings, some
comments on the aspectual values of the respective items may be appropriate.
The perspectives of intraterminality and postterminality – two marked aspec-
tual ways of envisaging events with respect to their limits – are grammaticalised
in Turkic as well as in many other languages (Johanson 1996a, 2000).
The intraterminal perspective envisages, at a given aspectual vantage point,
an event within its limits, e.g. Azerbaijanian gel-ir-em [come-intra-1sg] ‘I
am coming, I come’. Intraterminals are marked ‘imperfectives’ with ‘relative
present’ meanings of ‘the state of verb-ing’.
The postterminal perspective implies that, at a given aspectual vantage
point, the decisive limit of the event is already passed over, e.g. Azerbaijanian
gel-miš-em [come-ppast-1sg] ‘I have [already] arrived’. Postterminals express
‘the state of having verb-ed’ and can thus refer to preexisting events in an indi-
rect way. The event is totally or partly absent from the view, depending on the
actional content, but it is still relevant at the vantage point, possibly through
observable results or traces.
In many languages, postterminals, e.g. ‘perfects’ expressing past events
with present relevance, tend towards indirective readings (Johanson 1971:
Chapter 8, 2000:121–123). Even if the event is wholly or partly outside the
range of vision, traces, results or other forms of present knowledge of it may
obtain at the vantage point. Postterminals may thus suggest that information
becomes available post factum, that a preexisting state is discovered, etc. These
secondary meanings are pragmatic side effects that can be used as ‘evidential
strategies’. What indirectives share with ‘perfects’ as a common core meaning
is not the notion of ‘distance’, but rather that of postterminality.
The functions of Turkic indirective markers such as -mIş derive from the
indirect postterminal perspective. However, they should not be equated with
pure postterminals used as ‘evidential strategies’. Although some of them may
vacillate with respect to their semantics, they are, as a rule, more explicit and
stable evidentials, whose indirect aspectual value has been reinterpreted as in-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.6 (278)
 Lars Johanson
directivity. On the other hand, copula particles such as imiş have, through
grammaticalisation processes, completely lost their relationship to the post-
terminal value and cannot possibly be considered ‘perfect’ markers, as some
linguists have assumed.
. Semantic types of inflectional markers
Two or more of the following semantic types of inflectional markers are gener-
ally found in Turkic languages:
ipast-1. Unequivocal indirective pasts, e.g. -ibdir: Kazakh -(I)ptI, etc.
ipast-2. Less stable indirective pasts, e.g. -miš, -gan: Turkish -mIš, Tatar
-GAn, etc.
ppast. Postterminal pasts with secondary indirective readings, e.g. -miš,
-gan: Azerbaijanian -mIš, Kazakh -GAn, etc.
dpast. Direct pasts, not signalling indirective meanings: -di.
. Semantic types of copula particles
The temporally indifferent indirective copula particles express indirectivity
without any synchronic association with postterminality. In certain systems,
two copula particles divide the area of indirectivity between themselves ac-
cording to the pattern reportive versus non-reportive (inferential + perceptive)
uses. We thus find the following semantic types of indirective items.
ic-1. General indirectives, e.g. ermiš: Turkish -(y)mIš, etc.
ic-2. Indirectives with reportive meanings, e.g. ermiš: Turkmen -mIš, etc.
ic-3. Indirectives with non-reportive meanings, e.g. erken: Kazakh eken,
etc. A similar type, frequent in spoken registers, is bolibdir ‘evidently
is/was’: Kazakh, Noghay bolïptï, Uzbek bolip, Altay boluptïr, boltïr,
Khakas poltïr, Tatar bulγan, etc.
. System types
The types of evidentiality systems and their organisation vary considerably
across the modern Turkic languages. Most systems possess clearly evidential
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.7 (279)
Evidentiality in Turkic 
categories with indirectivity as the primary meaning. The following survey will
begin with the more comprehensive systems and proceed to the simpler ones.
. Three-term systems
The most comprehensive evidential systems are represented by modern lan-
guages such as Uyghur and Uzbek of the Southeastern branch, Kazakh of the
Northwestern branch, and Turkmen of the Southwestern branch.
Languages of this type exhibit three-term subsystems of inflectional mark-
ers, consisting of an indirective past in -ibdir, a postterminal in -gan, and a
direct past in -di.
The marker -ibdir is a stable indirectivity marker of the type ipast-
1: ‘has evidently done, evidently did’, e.g. Uyghur yėz-iptu, Uzbek yåz-ibdi
[write-ipast] ‘has evidently written, evidently wrote’, Kazakh tüs-ipti [fall-
ipast] ‘has evidently fallen, evidently fell’, Turkmen gid-ipdir [go-ipast] ‘has
apparently gone’.
The marker -gan is a postterminal of the type ppast, displaying perfect-
like meanings with occasional indirective readings, e.g. Uyghur yaz->an, Uzbek
yåz->an [write-ppast] ‘has written’, Kazakh öltir-gen [kill-ppast] ‘has killed’,
Turkmen öylön-ön [get.married-ppast] ‘has married’, ‘is married’.
In languages of this type, two indirective copula particles, erken and er-
miš, combine with various predicates to express ‘is/was obviously’. ermiš tends
towards reportive uses (type ic-2), and erken towards non-reportive, i.e. in-
ferential and perceptive, uses (ic-3).
erken combines with intraterminals,i.e. presents and imperfects, prospec-
tives, non-verbal predicates, etc, e.g. Uyghur yėz-ivatqan iken [write-intra
ic] ‘is/was evidently writing’, Kazakh kel-edi eken [come-intra ic] ‘is/was
evidently writing’, üyde eken [at.home ic] ‘is/was obviously at home’. It
combines with postterminals to express ‘has/had obviously been or done’,
‘turns out/turned out to have been or done’, e.g. Uyghur tüget-ken iken
[finish-post ic] ‘has/had obviously finished’, Uzbek yåz->an eken [write-post
ic] ‘has/had obviously written’, Kazakh tüs-ken eken [fall-post ic] ‘has/had
obviously fallen’.
ermiš expresses corresponding reportive meanings, e.g. Uyghur yėz-
ivatqan-miš [write-intra-ic] ‘is/was evidently writing’, Kazakh kel-edi-mis
[come-intra-ic] ‘is/was reportedly arriving’. With postterminals, it forms un-
equivocally indirective past items, e.g. Uyghur yaz->an-miš [write-post-ic]
‘has/had allegedly written’, Turkmen gid-ip-miš-in [go-post-ic-3sg] ‘has/had
reportedly gone’.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.8 (280)
 Lars Johanson
There are also items of the structure -ibdir + ermiš, which apply reportive
meaning to inferential or perceptive statements, ‘is/was reportedly evident’,
e.g. Kazakh kel-ipti-mis [come-ipast-ic]. Uyghur yėz-ipti-miš [write-ipast-ic]
‘has/had allegedly written’ is thus interpretable as a more reliable statement
than yaz->an-miš [write-post-ic], since it suggests the existence of something
perceived or inferred.
The distribution discussed here allows three-term subsystems of copula
particles of the type ‘indirective’ [‘reportive’ versus ‘non-reportive’] versus ‘un-
marked’. However, the opposition ‘reportive’ versus ‘non-reportive’ is often
limited to certain dialects or registers. Thus, ermiš is not used in all varieties
of Uyghur and Uzbek, and its role in Kazakh is also rather limited.
. Split three-term/two-term systems
Some languages exhibit three inflectional markers, indirective, postterminal
and direct past, but a simplified subsystem of copula particles: ‘indirective’
versus ‘unmarked’.
Noghay, of the Northwestern branch, has ipast-1, ppast, and dpast, e.g.
kel-ipti [come-ipast] ‘evidently arrived’, kel-gen [come-ppast] ‘has arrived’,
kel-di [come-dpast] ‘arrived’. Its copula particle erken is a general indirec-
tive marker of the semantic type ic-1, thus covering both reportive and non-
reportive meanings. It combines, for example, with intraterminals, e.g. kel-e-di
eken [come-intra-3sg ic] ‘is/was obviously arriving’, and with postterminals
and indirective pasts to form indirectives signalling relative anteriority, e.g. kel-
gen eken [come-post ic], kel-ipti eken [come-ipast ic] ‘has/had obviously ar-
rived’. bolibdir has a similar function, e.g. qal->an bolïptï [remain-post ic]
‘has/had obviously stayed’.
Certain other languages exhibit a simplified subsystem of inflectional
markers, while maintaining a richer subsystem of copula particles, distinguish-
ing between reportive and non-reportive.
In Tatar and Bashkir, of the Northwestern branch, -gan is used without a
competing -ibdir, thus representing the type ipast-2. It displays postterminal
uses but may also suggest indirectivity, e.g. yaz->an [write-ipast] ‘has [evi-
dently] written’. The neighbouring language Chuvash has a similar marker -nĂ
with postterminal and indirective meanings, e.g. kala-naă [speak-ipast] ‘has
[evidently] spoken’.
Tatar, Bashkir, and Chuvash possess both ermiš (reportive) and erken
(non-reportive), e.g. Chuvash kil-nĕ imeš [come-post ic] ‘has reportedly ar-
rived’, kil-nĕ ikken [come-post ic] ‘has evidently arrived’. The Tatar parti-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.9 (281)
Evidentiality in Turkic 
cle bul>an, which belongs to the type bolibdir, has functions similar to
those of erken, combining, for example, with intraterminals, postterminals,
and prospectives: bar-a bul>an [go-intra ic] ‘is/was evidently going’, bar->an
bul>an [go-post ic] ‘has/had evidently gone’, bar-ačaq bul>an [go-prosp ic]
‘will/would evidently go’.
. Two-term systems
A few systems just consist of one inflectional marker and one copula particle
plus their unmarked opposition partners. An inflectional marker -miš of the
type ipast-2 is used in the western subgroup of the Southwestern branch, e.g.
Turkish -mIş. The cognate item -BIT is used in Yakut, the northernmost lan-
guage of the Northeastern branch, spoken at the opposite extreme of the Turkic
world. The languages in question also possess ermiš particles of the type ic-1,
e.g. Turkish imiş, Yakut ebit.
Since -miš lacks a competing -ibdir, and ermiš lacks a competing erken,
these languages display two-term subsystems of the type indirective versus
non-indirective. The inflectional markers allow reportive, inferential and per-
ceptive readings, thus corresponding to several items in more comprehensive
systems, e.g. Kazakh -(I)ptI, -(I)ptImIs, -GAn eken and -GAn.
Turkish -miš, which mainly displays indirective uses, is opposed to an un-
marked simple direct past in -di, which negates the notion of indirectivity but
also displays neutral uses. Since Turkish lacks a competing pure posttermi-
nal, this item covers both ‘perfect’ and ‘preterite’ functions, e.g. gel-di [come-
dpast] ‘has come/came’. The copula particle is a stable general indirectivity
marker with reportive, inferential and perceptive uses. A complex item -miš +
ermiš applies an explicitly indirective type of evidentiality to a posttermi-
nally envisaged event. It is often used for rumours, gossip, etc., e.g. gel-miş-miş
[come-post-ic] ‘has/had reportedly arrived’.
Yakut has a similar system (see Buder 1989). The inflectional marker -bit
conveys reportive, inferential and perceptive nuances, e.g. kel-bit [come-ipast]
‘has [obviously] arrived’. The temporally indifferent indirective particle ebit is
similar to Turkish imiş and allows similar combinations with intraterminals,
postterminals, etc., e.g. tur-ar ebit [stand-intra ic] ‘evidently stands/stood’,
kel-bit ebit [come-post ic] ‘has/had evidently arrived’.
There are still smaller evidentiality systems, in which the inflectional
marker represents the type ppast, i.e. a postterminal with secondary indirec-
tive readings. Thus, Azerbaijanian possesses, like Turkish, an indirective copula
particle ermiš of the semantic type ic-1, imiš. However, the status of its inflec-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.10 (282)
 Lars Johanson
tional marker -mIš, which forms a common mixed paradigm with -(I)b, is dif-
ferent from that of Turkish -mIš. It represents an ambivalent type with postter-
minal meanings, e.g. gel-miš-em [come-ppast-1sg] ‘I have arrived’, yaz-ïb-sïn
[write-ppast-2sg] ‘you have written’. The unmarked term -di thus tends to-
wards ‘preterite’ rather than ‘perfect’ functions, e.g. gel-di [come-dpast] ‘came’
versus gel-ib [come-ppast] ‘has come’. The type -miš + ermiš unambigu-
ously applies indirectivity to postterminally envisaged events, e.g. yaz-mïš-mïš
[write-post-ic] ‘has/had reportedly written’.
. Contextual interpretations and semantic extensions
The motives for using Turkic indirectives may vary. They may get various
contextual interpretations and display various pragmatic extensions of their
central meaning.
. Testimony, involvement, control
Indirectives may evoke the impression that the recipient does not or did not
witness the event, perceive it, or participate in it consciously; that (s)he is or
was not present at the event, not in control of it, not directly involved in it.
However, despite the indirect way of presentation, these meanings are not sig-
nalled explicitly. The indirectively marked event may indeed be apprehended
by the recipient through the senses, consciously taken part in, etc. Lack of par-
ticipation or control is limited to certain contexts and cannot be the common
core meaning of indirectives. The source of information may be direct evi-
dence, personal, even visually obtained knowledge. A sentence such as Turkish
Ahmet gel-miş or Uyghur Exmet ke-ptu [A. come-ipast] ‘Ahmed has [as I note]
arrived’ can be felicitously uttered by a speaker who has witnessed the arrival
in reality. The indirective statement just expresses the conscious reception. As
is often the case with linguistic devices, it does not tell us how something is in
reality, but rather how the speaker chooses to present it.
On the other hand, evidentially unmarked terms may suggest that the
source of information is direct experience, that the speaker takes/has taken
part in the event consciously, is/was in control of it, etc. Again, the unmarked
terms do not signal these meanings explicitly, but may also be used for unwit-
nessed, uncontrolled, reported or inferred events, e.g. Turkish Çok büyü-dü-
n [much grow-dpast-2sg] ‘You have become very big’, Kemal Paşa, Selânik’te
doğdu [Atatürk(Kemal Paşa) Salonika+loc be.born+dpast] ‘Atatürk was born
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.11 (283)
Evidentiality in Turkic 
in Salonika’. They just lack the two-layered information typical of indirectives,
and may thus be used whenever this specific information seems unessential.
. Factuality
Turkic indirectives may also have epistemic connotations in the sense of reser-
vations about the validity of the event as a fact. The indirect way of referring
may create uncertainty concerning the realisation of the event and be inter-
preted as non-testimonial reference. Indirectives, in particular reportive items,
can be used to disclaim direct responsibility for the truth of the statement,
suggesting that the speaker is not the originator of the information or does
not vouch for it. By contrast, unmarked terms may suggest that the speaker is
certain of the truth of information and even responsible for it.
‘Supposition’ is sometimes claimed to be the main meaning of Turkic indi-
rectives. The corresponding unmarked items are said to signal that the speaker
regards the event as certain. However, indirectives are not presumptives or du-
bitatives reducing the factuality of the statement. Their task is not to express
the speaker’s attitude to the truth of the content, to signal doubt or conjecture
concerning the information conveyed.
Turkic languages have other ways of expressing supposition or conjec-
ture, e.g. the particle -dir, added to postterminals, intraterminals and other
forms, e.g. Turkish yaz-mış-tır, Uzbek yåz->an-dir, Uyghur yaz->an-du [write-
post-supp] ‘has presumably written’, Turkish oku-yor-dur, Turkmen oqo-ya:n-
nïr [read-intra-supp] ‘is presumably reading’, Uyghur išle-vatqan-du [work-
intra-supp] ‘is presumably working’.
. Distance
‘Distance’ is another possible contextual realisation. It has sometimes even
been suggested as the common core meaning of Turkic indirectives. Thus,
Turkish -miš and its counterparts, e.g. in Old East Turkic, have been referred
to as ‘preterites of distance’. It is true that some kind of distance is likely to be
involved if one does not refer directly to the event itself, but rather to the recep-
tion of it. By virtue of their central value, indirectives may imply cognitive or
emotional distance from the event. Speakers may use them in order to distance
themselves from the event, to distinguish themselves from the responsibility for
it, or as a way of being vague about sources that they do not want to lay open
to view. The notion is, however, too vague to possess any explanatory force.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.12 (284)
 Lars Johanson
. Irony
Indirectives may, in particular contexts, display pragmatic extensions of an at-
titudinal nature. One kind of dissociation from the event may be an ironic
relation to it, reservation interpretable as sarcasm, disdain, etc. e.g. Bu-
nu yap-acak-mış-sın [this-acc do-prosp-ic-2sg] ‘You will obviously (as you
think) do this’.
. Caution, modesty, summarising
The limitation to an indirective statement may be motivated by caution, mod-
esty, need for a summarising view, etc. Thus, indirective inflectional mark-
ers may represent events in a complexive, experiential, summarising way, fre-
quently with nuances of modesty, e.g. Turkish Ben her zaman vazife-m-i yap-
mış-ım [I each time duty-poss.1sg-acc do-ipast-1sg] ‘I have [as it appears]
always done my duty’, cf. Uyghur Men daim vezipe-m-ni ada qi-pti-men [I al-
ways duty-poss.1sg-acc fulfilment do-ipast-1sg], Turkish Önemli bir konu el-
e al-mış-sın [important a topic hand-dat take-ipast-2sg] ‘You have [if I may
summarise] addressed an important topic’. Readings of these kinds derive from
the indirect postterminal perspective.
. Mirative connotations
Indirectives of the types -ibdir, -miš, erken and ermiš, etc. may convey mi-
rative connotations. Their use may, in particular contexts, be interpreted in
terms of new knowledge, discovery, sudden awareness of revealed facts, sur-
prise, mental unpreparedness, perception contrary to one’s expectations, ad-
miration, etc. Such readings follow naturally from the notion of indirectivity.
The conscious reception (‘as it turns out/turned out’) may be sudden or un-
expected; what the recipient turns the mind to may come as a surprise. The
statement that Turkish indirectives may convey new information that is not yet
part of the speaker’s integrated picture of the world (Aksu-Koç & Slobin 1986)
is compatible with the central value of indirectivity. But this does not mean that
‘mirativity’ is their central meaning from which the other uses may be derived
(DeLancey 1997). Surprise, novelty and contrariness to the speaker’s expecta-
tion are not necessary elements of indirectivity. So-called ‘hot news’ is typi-
cally expressed by the direct past marker -di. On the other hand, certain Turkic
languages possess other means of expressing unexpected events, e.g. miratives
particles such as Altay Turkic turbay.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.13 (285)
Evidentiality in Turkic 
In sentences such as Kazakh Ol ket-ip qal-ïptï, Uyghur U kėt-ip qa-ptu
[(s)he go-conv remain-ipast] ‘(S)he has left [as I note]’, or exclamations such
as Turkish Bu kız ne güzel-miş! [this girl what beautiful-ic] ‘How beautiful
this girl is!’, Uyghur Bu qiz čirayliq iken! [this girl beautiful ic] ‘This girl is
beautiful!’, Turkish Büyü-müş-sün! [grow-ipast-2sg], Uyghur Čo] bol-up sen!
[big become-ipast 2sg] ‘You have grown!’, the indirective marker just adds the
meaning ‘as I am/become aware of’, which is the central value of the category.
Contrariness to the speaker’s expectation is, however, not part of this value.
. Differences between persons
Although evidential specifications are possible in all persons, certain interde-
pendencies with the person systems may be observed. The semantic interpre-
tations vary according to the degree of the recipient’s involvement in the event.
There are often differences between the first person singular and other persons.
Reportive or inferential uses are naturally most common with third persons.
The traditional definition of indirectivity as the expression of ‘the speaker’s
non-firsthand information’ is problematic because of its frequent incompati-
bilities with the first person. The use of indirectives when speaking of oneself
then necessarily implies lack of awareness, volitionality, consciousness or con-
trol due to inattention, sleep, drunkenness, coma, etc. However, with a defi-
nition based on the presentation of the event ‘by reference to its reception by
a conscious subject’, it is by no means contradictory to use indirectives with
firstperson subjects whose referents are aware of the event in question.
In Yellow Uyghur, a small Turkic language spoken in Western China, the
second and third person of certain tenses tends to take the evidential form
-(ï)ptï, -(ï)ttï = -ibdir, denoting that the eventis beyond control of the speaker,
whereas the first person takes the corresponding non-evidential form, -(h
)tï
= -di. Thus, a unified past tense paradigm has been suggested, in which the
first and non-first persons take different suffixes, e.g. men pah
r-tï ‘I went’ =
-di, sen part-ttï ‘you went’ = -ibdir (Roos 1999:105–106). In earlier descrip-
tions, however, these two types were dealt with as two separate tenses (Tenišev
1976:92–93).
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.14 (286)
 Lars Johanson
. Correlations with other grammatical categories
Turkic evidentials are limited to main clauses with an asserted, contradictable
content. They are not allowed in non-indicative moods such as optative and
imperative.
They may, however, cooccur with necessitatives or debitives, e.g. Turkish
Git-meli-ymiş-sin [go-nec-ic-2sg], Uyghur Sen kėt-iš-i] kėrek iken [you go-
nom-2sg necessary ic] ‘You evidently ought to go’.
In negative sentences, evidentials are not within the scope of negation. The
narrated event itself is negated, not its reception by the conscious subject, e.g.
U kel-me-ptu [(s)he come-neg-ic] ‘(S)he has not arrived [as I note]’.
Turkic indirectives may also occur in interrogative sentences, e.g. Turkish
O böyle de-miş mi? [(s)he so say-ipast q], Uyghur U mundaq de-ptu-mu? [(s)he
so say-ipast-q] ‘Did (s)he reportedly/evidently say so?’, Kazakh Kel-e mi eken?
[come-intra q ic] ‘Is (s)he, as it appears, coming?’, Üyde mi eken? [at.home q
ic] ‘Is (s)he, as it appears, at home?’ Noghay Ne-ge kel-gen eken-ler? [what-dat
come-post ic-pl] ‘Why have they, as it appears, come?’. Indirectives may also
be used in questions asked on behalf of someone else. They do not express the
speaker’s assumption about the addressee’s source of information.
Though evidentiality specifications are relatively independent of aspect-
tense choice, there are certain cooccurrence restrictions. Indirective copula par-
ticles are incompatible with the simple past -di and the related copula forms
edi, idi etc. ‘was’, e.g. Turkish *-di-ymIş, *-(y)dI-ymIş.
. Modal uses of erken
Certain uses of erken seem to be exceptions to the last rule of the preceding
section. In some languages, erken may also be used as a modal particle mean-
ing ‘indeed’, etc., in which case it does not take personal suffixes, but is added to
complete main clauses. In this function, erken may also cooccur with -di, e.g.
Kazakh Kel-di eken! [come-dpast mod] ‘(S)he has indeed arrived!’. It can also
combine with conditional markers to form modal sentences expressing mod-
est, polite or timid wishes, e.g. Noghay Yaz-sa-] eken, Uyghur Yaz-sa-] iken
[write-cond-2sg mod] ‘If you would write it up [it would be fine]’.
With interrogative elements, the modal variant of erken forms rhetorical
questions, with readings such as ‘I wonder’, e.g. Kazakh Ne et-ti-m eken? [what
do-dpast-1sg mod] ‘I wonder what I have done’, Noghay Nege bol-ma-y-dï
eken?, Uyghur Nemišqa bol-ma-y-di-ken? [why become-neg-intra-3sg mod]
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.15 (287)
Evidentiality in Turkic 
‘I wonder why it does not come about’. Two examples from Noghay may il-
lustrate the difference between the modal and the evidential use of erken.
Ne-ge kel-gen-ler eken? [what-dat come-post-3pl mod], where the particle is
added to the complete main clause, is a rhetorical question meaning ‘I wonder
why they have come’. In the corresponding indirective sentence, erken takes
the personal suffix: Ne-ge kel-gen eken-ler? [what-dat come-post ic-3pl] ‘Why
have they reportedly [etc.] come?’ (Karakoç 2001:38).
. Evidentiality and discourse
Indirectives may play various roles according to different discourse types. In
traditional story-telling, e.g. in fairytales, they play the role of detaching the
narrator from the narrated events, e.g. Uyghur Burun bir padiša öt-üptu; un-
i] bir bali-si bar iken [formerly a ruler live-ipast; (s)he-gen a child-poss.3sg
existing ic] ‘Once upon a time there was a king who had a son’. On traditional
-miš-based narratives in Turkish, see Johanson (1971:79–80). Independentlyof
their status as genuine indirectives or indirectively interpretable postterminals,
-miš, -ibdir and -gan may serve as propulsive, ‘plot-advancing’, basic items of
this discourse type. In historical narratives, however, direct pasts of the type
-di are used as the basic items; as mentioned, also for events unwitnessed by
the speaker. Evidentials are not typically used for describing dreams or content
conveyed by written, auditory or visual media.
. Origins
Turkic indirective markers of the inflectional type originate in postterminals.
The developmentof more stable indirective meanings may be seen as the gram-
maticalisation of an evidentiality strategy, a semantic extension in the sense of
conventionalised implicatures. The markers -miš and -gan are of unknown
origin, but may have developed from lexemes. For example, it is conceivable,
though hardly provable, that -miš goes back to a form of a verb of the type bïš-
‘to ripen, to mature’ (attaining a final state such as ‘ripe’, ‘cooked’ or ‘done’).
Markers of the formal type -ibdir, e.g. Uyghur yėz-ipti ‘evidently wrote’,
Salar gel-du ‘evidently came’, Tuvan ber-iptir ‘evidently gave’, go back to the
postterminal periphrasis -(I)b tur-ur, consisting of a converb of the lexical verb
plus tur-ur ‘stands’, e.g. yaz-ïb tur-ur (‘stands having written’) ‘is in the state of
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.16 (288)
 Lars Johanson
having written’, ‘has written’. The type bolibdir consists of bol- ‘to become, to
be’ plus the indirective suffix -ib[dir].
The copula particles ermiš and erken are derived from er- ‘to be’, though
not regular forms in -miš and -gan. Both may be of postterminal origin, if er-
was originally an initiotransformativeverb (see Johanson 2000:62–63)express-
ing (i) an initial dynamic phase ‘to become’ and (ii) a subsequent stative phase
‘to be’. The postterminal perspective of such a verb may envisage the event as
still going on at the aspectual vantage point: er-miš ‘has become (evident)’, ‘has
appeared’ = ‘is (evident)’, ‘appears’.
. Contact-induced codecopying
Indirectives play a central part in almost all Turkic languages. However, due to
influence from Indo-European languages such as Persian, Greek and Slavic,
a few languages and dialects only exhibit ‘evidentiality strategies’. The ten-
dency of Azerbaijanian -mIš/-(I)b towards pure postterminal (‘perfect’) read-
ings is most probably due to Persian influence, e.g. yap-ïb ‘has done’, cf. Persian
karde(-ast). There are also other influences. For example, the Yellow Uyghur
system is reminiscent of the Tibetan verbal paradigm (DeLancey 1986). Ev-
identiality systems are lacking in a few Turkic languages and dialects which
have been strongly influenced by Indo-European, e.g. Karaim in Lithuania,
under Slavic and Lithuanian impact (Csató 2000b), and the Turkish dialects
of the Trabzon province on the east Black Sea coast, under the impact of Greek
(Brendemoen 1997).
Features of Turkic evidential systems have proven highly attractive in lan-
guage contact situations and have been copied into non-Turkic languages in
Southwestern and Central Asia, Southeastern and Northeastern Europe, etc.
Indirective categories similar to the Turkic ones typically appear in contact ar-
eas such as the Balkans, Anatolia, Caucasus, the Volga region, and Central Asia,
e.g. in Bulgarian, Macedonian, Albanian, Kurdish, Western Armenian, Geor-
gian, Tajik, and Eastern Finno-Ugric. For example, Northern Tajik has devel-
oped a comprehensive evidential system on the Uzbek model. Indirective func-
tions have been copied (i) onto postterminals of the ‘perfect’ type (as opposed
to ‘aorists’), and (ii) onto related participles, on the model of the temporally
indifferent erken or ermiš, e.g. Bulgarian bil (Johanson 1996b) and Western
Armenian e>er. I also suggest that Hungarian igen ‘yes’ goes back to a Turkic
form erken ‘evidently’.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.17 (289)
Evidentiality in Turkic 
Differences in markedness sometimes seem to speak against the assump-
tion of contact influence. The basic evidential oppositions of Bulgarian and
Macedonian are described as relying on marked ‘confirmative’ items indicating
unequivocal and direct assertion, whereas the corresponding unmarked items
convey indirective meanings in particular contexts. The question is whether
systems based on marked confirmatives may have emerged through areal con-
tact with Turkic systems based on marked indirectives. Comrie considers the
possibility that the semantic distinction can be reduced to a single prototype
with markedness inversion: “one of the systems, almost certainly the Balkan
one, has undergone a shift whereby an old indirective was reinterpreted as
unmarked, with the originally unmarked non-indirective then becoming a
marked confirmative” (2000:8). This suggestion is in line with the basic prin-
ciple of the Code Copying framework (see, e.g., Johanson 2002) to the effect
that a code copy is never identical with its model.
References
Aksu-Koç, A. A., & Slobin, D. (1986). A psychological account of the development and use
of evidentials in Turkish. In W. Chafe & J. Nichols (Eds.), Evidentiality: The linguistic
coding of epistemology (pp. 159–167). Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Brendemoen, B. (1997). Some remarks on the -mIş past in the Eastern Black Sea coast
dialects. Turkic Languages, 1, 161–183.
Buder, A. (1989). Aspekto-temporale Kategorien im Jakutischen. [Aspect-tense categories in
Yakut.] (Turcologica 5.) Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz.
Comrie, B. (2000). Evidentials: semantics and history. In L. Johanson & B. Utas (Eds.),
Evidentials. Turkic, Iranian and neighbouring languages (pp. 1–12). Berlin and New
York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Csató, É. Á. (2000a). Turkish MIŞ- and IMIŞ-items. Dimensions of a functional analysis. In
L. Johanson & B. Utas (Eds.), Evidentials. Turkic, Iranian and neighbouring languages
(pp. 29–43). Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Csató, É. Á. (2000b). Some typological features of the viewpoint and tense system in spoken
North-Western Karaim. In Ö. Dahl (Ed.), Tense and aspect in the languages of Europe
(pp. 27–187). Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
DeLancey, S. (1986). Evidentiality and volitionality in Tibetan. In W. Chafe & J. Nichols
(Eds.), Evidentiality: The linguistic coding of epistemology (pp. 203–213). Norwood, NJ:
Ablex.
DeLancey, S. (1997). Mirativity: The grammatical marking of unexpected information.
Linguistic Typology, 1, 33–52.
Johanson, L. (1971). Aspekt im Türkischen. Vorstudien zu einer Beschreibung des
türkeitürkischen Aspektsystems. [Aspect in Turkish. Prolegomena to a description of the
Turkish aspect system.] Uppsala: Almqvist & Wiksell.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 9:34 F: TSL5412.tex / p.18 (290)
 Lars Johanson
Johanson, L. (1996a). Terminality operators and their hierarchical status. In B. Devriendt,
L. Goossens, & J. van der Auwera (Eds.), Complex structures: A functionalist perspective
(pp. 229–258). Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Johanson, L. (1996b). On Bulgarian and Turkic indirectives. In N. Boretzky, W. Enninger, &
T. Stolz (Eds.), Areale, Kontakte, Dialekte. Sprache und ihre Dynamik in mehrsprachigen
Situationen (pp. 84–94). Bochum: Brockmeyer.
Johanson, L. (2000). Viewpoint operators in European languages. In Ö. Dahl (Ed.), Tense
and aspect in the languages of Europe (pp. 27–187). Berlin and New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Johanson, L. (2002). Structural factors in Turkic language contacts. London: Curzon.
Karakoç, B. (2001). Studien zum finiten Verbalsystem des Nogaischen. [Studies of the finite
verb system in Noghay.] Ph.D. thesis, University of Mainz.
Roos, M. E. (1999). The Western Yugur (Yellow Uygur) language. Grammar, texts, voca-
bulary. Ph.D. thesis, University of Leiden.
Tenišev, Ė. R. (1976). Stroj saryg-jugurskogo jazyka. [The structure of the Yellow-Uyghur
language.] Nauka: Moskva.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:21 F: TSL5413.tex / p.1 (291)
Chapter 13
Evidentiality in West Greenlandic
A case of scattered coding
Michael Fortescue
. Organisation1
Evidentiality as such can hardly be said to be systematized in West Green-
landic – at least not in any obvious sense. The category manifests itself in
‘scattered coding’ in this language (see Aikhenvald, this volume, Chapter 1),
in the form of various kinds of bound affixes, a single quotative enclitic, a sin-
gle adverbial ‘particle’, and, more peripherally, in part of its demonstrative sys-
tem (as well as through adverbial and syntagmatic means).2
It does not appear
to display any ‘evidentiality strategy’ either, if by that is meant secondary ev-
idential meanings of non-evidential categories (see Aikhenvald, this volume,
Chapter 1). The situation is virtually identical in all other languages of the
Eskimo-Aleut family.
The closest thing to a systematized area of evidentiality is in the choice
of certain ‘sentential affixes’ (a formal category intermediate between deriva-
tion and inflection) that have epistemic meaning (two out of half a dozen or
so), namely -gunar- ‘it seems’ and -sima- in its ‘reportative’ sense (signalling a
past event the speaker was not present at in person), but the overlap here with
‘true’ epistemic (inferential/judgmental) senses is egregious and the whole cat-
egory of epistemic affixes is, like all other main clause verbal affix categories in
Eskimo apart from mood-person-number inflections, optional in West Green-
landic. The other (non-sentential) derivational affixes – verb-extenders or ver-
balizers – with an evidential meaning (such as ‘one can hear the sound of...’)
are also optional, as is the quotative (reportative) enclitic -guuq. Note that
some relevant affixes have an evidential and a non-evidential sense (notably
-sima-, which also has an aspectual and a tense – perfect – sense) but these are
distinguishable by commutation with other affixes.3
In other words, the be-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:21 F: TSL5413.tex / p.2 (292)
 Michael Fortescue
haviour of such morphemes may be ‘systematic’ without their forming com-
plete paradigmatic sets and without their being obligatory – this will be re-
turned to in the conclusion. More broadly, these various types of evidential-
ity codings form a cline of subjectivity, ranging from objective sensory-specific
derivation through epistemic modality to subjective attitudinal affixes, ordered
from left to right within the verb complex (the quotative enclitic, being purely
pragmatically controlled, falls outside of this).
. Semantics
The coding of evidentiality in West Greenlandic is spread amongst the follow-
ing items then:
a. sentential affixes (of the epistemic sub-category)
-gunar- ‘it seems that’ (from sensory information – usually visual but also
auditory, etc.), or ‘presumably, probably’ (by logical inference)
-sima- ‘apparently’ (speaker not present, but inferred from verbal report or
visual evidence left of event)
The two senses of -gunar- are only distinguished by context. Although in its
evidential sense -sima- is not usually used with 1st person subjects, it can be in
its other, aspectual or temporal senses (and note that there is no interaction be-
tween person and other sentential affixes). In actual texts, the three meanings
(for non-1st person at least) are most often all conflated, i.e. when speaking
of an event that happened in the past when the speaker was not present him-
self/herself and that resulted in some persisting state. The only way they can be
differentiated is, as mentioned, by permutation, though in most contexts there
will not be sufficient (non-obligatory) surrounding affixal material to ‘disam-
biguate’. If two tokens expressing more than one sense are present,the first must
be aspectual and the second either tense or epistemic modality (the ‘sentential’
meanings).4
There do not seem to be any restrictions on the nature of the stem
to which it may attach (e.g. as regards inherent aspect).
Other epistemic affixes potentially filling the same non-obligatory ‘slot’ in
the morphology include:
-junnarsi- ‘probably, no doubt’ (about the present, on the basis of general
expectations)
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:21 F: TSL5413.tex / p.3 (293)
Evidentiality in West Greenlandic 
-nnguatsiar- ‘presumably, I suppose, as far as one can tell’ (about the present
on the basis of expectations and experience – more subjective than the
preceding)
-junnanngit- ‘I don’t think that ..., probably will not’ (speaker is convinced of
a present or, more usually, future negative potentiality)
-qquuqi- ‘undoubtedly, must have -ed’ (not much used by younger people
today)
-(sima)ssa- ‘must (have -ed)’ (inferred)5
There is some semantic overlap between these items, and there are a few oth-
ers (less usual or dialectal or restricted in combination) that may fill the posi-
tion. As discussed below, some specialization of meaning in combination with
negative affix -nngit- is found.
Here follow a few examples:6
(1) (taangaarami)
(it is so dark)
unnua-a-gunar-puq
night-be-gunar-3sg+indic
‘It must be night (to judge from the light).’
(2) (taa)
(listen!)
siallir-unar-puq
rain-gunar-3sg+indic
‘It must be raining (to judge from the view through the window or the
sound on the roof).’
(3) (takuuk masak)
(look it is wet)
siallir-sima-vuq
rain-sima-3sg+indic
‘It appears to have rained (said when going outside and seeing a pool of
water after it has stopped raining).’
(4) savik
knife.abs
una
this
ipik-kunar-puq
be.sharp-gunar-3sg+indic
‘This knife looks sharp.’
(5) (kingusinnirusukkut sianirvigigiuk)
(call him later)
niri-gunar-puq
eat-gunar-3sg+indic
‘He is probably eating (a logical inference, e.g. from the present time and
one’s knowledge of the person’s habits).’
(6) (akurnusirsurnagu)
(don’t disturb him)
qasu-junnarsi-vuq
be.tired-junnarsi-3sg+indic
‘He is no doubt tired (from what we know of his endurance and what he
has been through).’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:21 F: TSL5413.tex / p.4 (294)
 Michael Fortescue
(7) (takusarusunngilara)
(I don’t want to go and look)
api-nnguatsiar-puq
snow-nnguatsiar-3sg+indic
‘It is probably/no doubt snowing (that is my personal feeling or expecta-
tion).’
(8) naasu-kasik
flower-miserable+abs
una
this
alli-unnanngil-aq
grow.big-junnanngit-3sg+indic
‘I don’t believe this miserable little flower will grow bigger/you can be sure
it won’t grow any bigger (speaker’s conviction based on experience, etc.).’
(9) (naak puuqattara?)
(where is my bag?)
tammar-simassa-aq
get.lost-simassa-3sg+indic
‘It must have got lost (logical conclusion from the object’s absence from
its expected place).’7
There are also a few (non-epistemic) sentential affixes of a mirative meaning
such as -riallar- expressing the protagonist’s (or the narrator’s own) surprise at
some event (see Fortescue 1984:31 for examples), but these do not function as
evidentials (or cooccur with them).
b. non-sentential affixes
-(r)paluC- ‘look V’ (e.g. good; also ‘look, sound, act like an N’)
-(r)palaar- ‘one can hear (someone or something) V-ing’ (also ‘one can hear
an N, look like, act like an N’)
-(r)pallaC- ‘one can hear (someone or something) V-ing’ or ‘they say he has
V-ed’
Especially the last of these has a clear evidential sense (evidence from rumour
or some other kind of unconfirmed spoken report), but -(r)paluC- can also
be used in this sense, and -(r)pallaC- can also be used of evidence from other
senses than hearing (for example tactile or kinaesthetic).
These are all typically used to describe a state of affairs or event, either in
the present or reported in a narrative context.8
Here follow a few examples:
(10) napparsima-rpalup-puq
be.ill-(r)paluC-3sg+indic
‘He looks ill.’
(11) arnar-palup-puq
woman-(r)paluC-3sg+indic
‘He seems effeminate (because of his behaviour or appearance).’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:21 F: TSL5413.tex / p.5 (295)
Evidentiality in West Greenlandic 
(12) angir-pallap-puq
say.yes-(r)pallaC-3sg+indic
‘He is supposed to have said yes (I have heard).’
(13) katap-pallap-puq
fall-(r)pallaC-3sg+indic
‘One can notice that something has fallen off (e.g. from the sled, which
therefore feels lighter or more sensitive to steer).’
(14) ani-rpallap-puq
ani-(r)pallaC-3sg+indic
‘One can/could hear him going out.’
(15) qia-rpalaar-puq
cry-(r)palaar-3sg+indic
‘One can/could hear someone crying.’
(16) naaja-rpalaar-puq
seagull-(r)palaar-3sg+indic
‘One can/could hear (the cry of) seagulls.’
There are other such affixes like -nirar- ‘say that someone/something V-s’, and
-suri- ‘think that someone/something V-s’ which are added to verbal stems and
introduce their own subject participant (the reporter or thinker) – they report
events or thoughts but are not strictly evidential, stating (quasi-) objective facts
rather.9
A single example will suffice:
(17) Tuumasi
Tuumasi.abs
iqiasun-nirar-paat
be.lazy-nirar-3pl/3sg+indic
‘They said that Tuumasi is/was lazy.’
c. quotative enclitic
Sentential/phrasal enclitic -guuq (after consonant usually -(n)nguuq), ‘one/he
says/ they say...’, is used for ‘mediated’ illocutions of all sorts: it moves respon-
sibility for a speech act away from the speaker. Reports with -guuq suggest dis-
placed responsibility for veridity rather than unreliability (it may be a matter of
true but unwanted news, say), the source of the information being left unspec-
ified. With imperatives it expresses indirect commands and with interrogatives
indirect questions. Here follow examples with all three moods:
(18) Tuumasi-n-nguuq
Tuumasi-rel-guuq
qilalugaq
beluga
pisar-aa
catch-3sg/3sg+indic
‘Tuumasi caught a beluga (they say).’
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:21 F: TSL5413.tex / p.6 (296)
 Michael Fortescue
(19) filmiir-sinnaa-ppan-nguuq
see.film-can-3pl+inter-guuq
‘They want to know whether they can see a film.’
(20) inuullua-ri-lin-nguuq
live.well-non.imm-3pl+opt-guuq
‘Give my greetings to them.’
d. quotative particle
The uninflectable particle unnia ‘just think, they say that...’ is the impersonal
(and mildly mirative) equivalent to an inflected form of verbal stem unnir-
‘say that’ and – like the mirative construction mentioned in note 12 – takes a
complement clause in the participial mood:
(21) unnia
unnia
Qaanaa-mi
Qaanaaq-loc
najugaqar-tuq
live-3sg+part
‘They say he lives at Qaanaaq (would you believe).’
Unlike quotative -guuq, this has a ‘gossipy’, subjective flavour to it. The corre-
sponding full verb unnir- inflected in the indicative is used (like more com-
mon uqar- ‘say’) in an ordinary syntactic construction of indirect speech with
specified subject and a subordinate mood complement clause.
e. demonstratives
As mentioned in (1), the demonstrative system is more peripherally involved
with evidentiality. Thus deictic prefix aa- on demonstratives ‘(that one) over
there, in there, up there, etc.’ contrasts with anaphoric ta(C)- ‘(that one) afore-
said’. There is also amongst the demonstrative roots an item im- ‘that in-
visible, that long ago’ though this is archaic today. Thus angut aa-juna ‘this
man (here – pointing)’ is opposed to angut ta-anna ‘that man (recently/just
referred to)’, both from the same demonstrative pronominal form una of a
nearby thing or person. Angut inna (with im-) in the older language would
refer to someone invisible (for example because of belonging to the legendary
past). The distinction between visible and invisible/obscured in the original Es-
kimo demonstrative system is still fully alive in Alaskan Yupik (see Reed et al.
1977:256).
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:21 F: TSL5413.tex / p.7 (297)
Evidentiality in West Greenlandic 
. Correlations with other grammatical categories
As regards interaction with the (inflectional) category of mood, the use of quo-
tative -guuq with an interrogative clause to produce an indirect question has
already been mentioned. Of the other evidential morphemes listed, the senten-
tial ones are not used in questions, but the non-sentential ones may, since they
merely produce derived predications (e.g. the sound of seagulls being heard in
(16) could well be questioned in the interrogative mood). Similar statements
apply to commands (see -guuq in (20) above) and also to dependent clauses,
since -guuq can be attached enclitically to any initial sentential constituent –
including a dependent verb-form. No sentential affix (apart from special ‘con-
junctional’ ones) can be added to dependent clauses, but there is no restriction
on other non-sentential ones of an evidential nature doing so.
In Fortescue (1995) can be found a discussion of other means of express-
ing indirect reports, commands and questions in West Greenlandic. Apart
from syntactic constructions of the usual subordinating kind, there are also
morphological constructions, including -nirar- illustrated above in (17). No-
tice that the latter (as also -suri- ‘think that’) can exceptionally take whole
‘propositions’ containing epistemic and tense sentential affixes in its scope,
verb-internally, thus:
(22) Maalia-p
Maalia-rel
miiraq
child
irniinnaq
right.away
sini-li-ssa-gunar-nirar-paa
sleep-begin-fut-probably-say.that-3sg/3sg+indic
‘Maalia said that the child would probably fall asleep right away.’
Less productively, there is also an affix of reported direct speech -Vr- following
common fixed phrases as base (here a whole indicative sentence kalippuq):
(23) nukappiaraq
boy.abs
kalippu-ur-puq
he.is.towing.something-say-3sg+indic
‘The boy said/cried, “He’s towing something” (e.g. when announcing that
he had caught sight of a returning hunter towing a seal behind his kayak).’
West Greenlandic (like all Eskimo languages) further has a range of attitudi-
nal sentential affixes like -kasiC-, which expresses that the subject of the action
acted clumsily or in an annoying or stupid way (often used ironically about
oneself) , or -nnguar-, which expresses affection or compassion when the sub-
ject is a small or weak person (typically a child) – for examples see Fortescue
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:21 F: TSL5413.tex / p.8 (298)
 Michael Fortescue
(1984:295f.). These may combine with the epistemic sentential affixes above
(which they always follow).
. Combination with negation
The only restrictions on combination with negation concerns the sentential af-
fixes listed above under 2a, insofar as there is a certain degree of lexicalization
in some combinations with negative affix -nngit- (with non-sentential affixes
there is the usual transparent scope relation whether negation follows or pre-
cedes). Either following or preceding -gunar- (-gunanngit- or -nngikkunar-)
this produces a lexicalized ‘certainly/probably not’ meaning, whereas follow-
ing -sima- (it cannot precede it) -nngit- will usually force one of the other
two readings of that morpheme, namely resultative (aspect) or perfect (tense).
Compare also -junnanngit- listed under 1a (it is a compound of the initial ele-
ment of -junnarsi- and negative -nngit-), which is if anything somewhat more
subjective or tentative in meaning than -gunanngit- above (the two have be-
come somewhat entangled historically). -nnguatsiar- is different from these by
always being attached after -nngit- (transparently – there is no lexicalization):
(24) qimaguti-nngi-nnguatsiar-puq
leave-neg-nnguatsiar-3sg+indic
‘I don’t think he’s left/ he’s probably not left.’
. Discourse
As mentioned above, -sima- is not usually used of a 1st person subject, but it
can be so used in a jocular manner (e.g. suggesting one was drunk at the time
of an event one is reporting), e.g.:
(25) ippassaq
yesterday
Nuum-miis-sima-vunga
Nuuk-be.in-sima-1sg+indic
‘Yesterday I was in Nuuk apparently.’
It is also commonly used to distance oneself from responsibility for an event,
for example a child found next to a broken vase might say:
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:21 F: TSL5413.tex / p.9 (299)
Evidentiality in West Greenlandic 
(26) asirur-sima-vuq
break-sima-3sg+indic
‘It got broken (i.e. not by me).’
An interesting use of quotative enclitic -guuq also typical of children is in ‘pre-
tend’ situations such as the following, where one child is proposing a game (not
reporting someone else’s words):
(27) illin-nguuq
you-guuq
nakursaq
doctor
uanga-lu
I-and
napparsimasuq
patient
‘You are (to be) the doctor and I am the patient.’
Heavy use of -guuq is also typical of the traditional narrative genre, being often
repeated (enclitic to the first word or phrase of successive sentences) for stylistic
rather than informational purposes (compare de Reuse, this volume, on a par-
allel in Western Apache). Miratives and other ‘subjective/attitudinal’ affixes are
also often used in this genre to add vividness, but these are not strictly speaking
evidential.
. Evidentiality strategies
It is not really possible to say that any of the morphemes in WG expressing
evidentiality are secondary uses of other modal meanings, i.e. the result of an
‘evidential strategy’, on the way to (primary) grammaticalization. Thus eviden-
tial -sima-, for example, developed historically from a non-modal resultative
(and has further developed a tense sense), but has not produced an obligatory
evidential ‘system’ nor replaced the earlier meaning. At most one can say that
certain of the epistemic affixes of the language have developed narrower ev-
idential senses. The Proto-Eskimo source of -gunar- thus apparently had the
meaning ‘probably’ (see -yuknar-, from -yuke- ‘think that’ and -nar- ‘be such
as to cause’, in Fortescue et al. 1994:437), and -sima- can only be reconstructed
to this stage in its (secondary) epistemic sense as a general inferential, ‘appar-
ently’ (the link to specific modalities as in (3) is thus presumably later).10
The
basic category here in all forms of Eskimo is epistemic modality (as perhaps
also in Eastern Pomo – see McLendon, this volume).
There is nothing in West Greenlandic analogous to the use of the particip-
ial mood for evidentiality as reported for mainland Central Siberian Yupik
(Vakhtin 1995). Jacobson (1990:57), in describing the closely related Saint
Lawrence Island variety of the language, links this use of the participial mood
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:21 F: TSL5413.tex / p.10 (300)
 Michael Fortescue
to the presence of preceding affix of epistemic modality -(i/u)ma-, which cor-
responds to West Greenlandic -sima-. Coupled with other mood inflections it
has the aspectual (resultative) sense of WG -sima-. Apparently the affix is op-
tional on the mainland, although the examples of this usage given by Vakhtin
(1995:232f.) actually do all include preceding -(i/u)ma- or other affixes with
modal or tense meanings like -yaXqa(a)- ‘must’, immediate past -nXa(a)-, or
past/perfective -ka(a)- ‘to have V-ed/ to have been V-ed’ (combinations not
specifically reported by Jacobson). So the situation could in fact well be just
the same as on Saint Lawrence Island. The situation does at all events reflect –
if indirectly – the general replacement of sentential affixes in Central Siberian
Yupik by particles under the influence of neighbouring Chukchi (which has
possibly been strongeron the mainland than on the island) – compare de Reuse
(1994), who names several Chukchi loan particles of an epistemic nature (e.g.
agnepa ‘probably, must have (inferred from circumstances)’, from ewn6pe on
p. 366).11
Evidentiality is in general expressed by particles in Chukchi. In Cen-
tral Alaskan Yupik there is a different epistemic affix, -llini-, corresponding to
-sima-, glossed as ‘it seems that, I found out that, I discovered that...’ (Reed et
al. 1987:237) and the use of the participial mood as an indicative is described
as ‘exclamatory’ (Reed et al. 1987:250).12
For Central SiberianYupik (on Saint
Lawrence Island) Jacobson describes it as ‘a past tense in continuing discourse’
(Jacobson 1990:57).
. Historical sources
The various affixes with evidential meaning cannot be traced back to earlier
independent stems (even for proto-Eskimo-Aleut). As mentioned above, the
source of epistemic -sima- lies in a resultative affix, whose reconstructed form
for Proto-Eskimo is -(u)ma- (see Fortescue et al. 1994:410). The direction of
change is that expected from grammaticalization theory, but with no ultimate
source in any independent verb (the form -sima- reflects the allomorph orig-
inally found after t-stems). Compare Anderson (1986:275) for the common
source of ‘circumstantial-inference’ evidentials in resultative perfects.
The situation as regards the lack of any obvious lexical source is similar
with the other affixes discussed above. The origin of -gunar- has been men-
tioned in §6, and -nnguatsiar- was an attitudinal affix at an earlier stage;13
-
ssa-, which has both an epistemic and a tense meaning, derives from *-tya-
‘intend to, be about to’, related to Proto-Eskimo root modal affix *-ya- ‘be apt
to’. As for -(r)paluC- (and other related non-sentential affixes), one might sus-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:21 F: TSL5413.tex / p.11 (301)
Evidentiality in West Greenlandic 
pect an original independent verb meaning ‘hear’, but apart from a tantaliz-
ing verb stem valom- ‘hear’ (and palomtel- ‘listen’) in Chukchi there is no ev-
idence for this (a purely internal relationship between recontructed *-valuk-,
after C *-paluk-, and Proto-Eskimo denominal affix -var-/-par- ‘go towards’ is
suggested in Fortescue et al. 1994:432).
Enclitic -guuq (in Central Siberian Yupik -nguq) may have arisen from ver-
balizing affix -(ng)u- ‘be’ plus a 3sg indicative inflection (i.e. ‘it is so that...’),
for which there is a near-parallel in Aleut aXtakuX ‘apparently be’ from a-
‘be’ (originally u- as in Eskimo) plus stative/resultative affix -Xta-, here in
the present indicative (cf. Bergsland 1997:119, 123, 217). The adverbial ‘par-
ticle’ unnia ‘it is said that’ is derived from verb stem unnir- ‘say (that)’, as
mentioned above.
The situation in remotely related Aleut is, incidentally, similar to that
in West Greenlandic, with at least one affix of epistemic modality (-masu-/
-musu-, that may be related in part to -sima-), but it lacks a quotative enclitic,
and generally has more analytic/syntagmatic means of expressing evidentiality
(e.g. with ‘auxiliary’ verb aXta- ‘apparently’ mentioned above).
. Cultural attitudes
One can only speculate as to whether the wide-spread use of the quotative en-
clitic as a ‘responsibility shifter’, leaving vague the source of information, could
reflect the often noted diffidence of Greenlanders and other Inuit, which is
manifest in periphrastic (impersonal) expressions for first person reference as
well as in the phenomenon here at issue. Presumably life in very small, scat-
tered Arctic communities, where everyone is likely to know of everyone else’s
doings and where rumours spread easily, is such as to make being vague about
one’s source of information (and attitude towards its veracity) a generally sen-
sible strategy. Related to this is assuredly also the fear of ridicule (the major
form of social sanction in such loosely organized communities).
As regards evidential markers in connection with modern media such as
newspapers, radio and television, Greenlanders use the means available in
much the way one would expect from usage in oral contexts. In particular, the
distinction between hearing and seeing (including reading) is maintained, such
that quotative -guuq is used for reports of what one has heard from both radio
and television, whereas one would not normally use it in reporting something
one has read in the newspaper (unless it was a quoted speech, say).14
Report-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:21 F: TSL5413.tex / p.12 (302)
 Michael Fortescue
ing the recent death of the queen mother, for example, to an acquaintance who
may not know of the fact, one could say:
(28) Dronning
Queen
Ingrid
I.
tuqu-sima-vu-ruuq
die-sima-3sg+indic-guuq
‘Queen Ingrid has died (apparently).’
This would be suitable whether one heard it from an individual or on the ra-
dio or television news. The epistemic affix -sima- is not obligatory here, but
is normally used to emphasize that the reporter was not present him/herself
when it happened, so one has here the possibility of expressing a double ‘dis-
tancing’ from the reported event, both of oneself and of the intermediary one
got it from. One could also use derivational affix -(r)pallaC- from §2b to dis-
tance oneself still more from responsibility for the validity of the information
by reducing it to objectively reported hearsay: tuqu-rpallap-puq ‘it is said/they
say that she is dead’.
. Conclusion
To return briefly to the general nature of the ‘scattered coding’ of evidential-
ity in West Greenlandic, let us consider again the problem raised at the outset
of the chapter of defining the category in this language (and other varieties
of Eskimo) in terms of ‘systematicity’ and ‘obligatoriness’. In the context of a
discussion of ‘grammaticalizable’ categories, Slobin (2001) reminds us that the
distinction between ‘content’ and ‘function’ words – where the latter typically
form small systematized sets of items of very general meaning and paradigmat-
ically related to each other by mutually exclusive choice – is fuzzier and more
language-specific than many would like to believe. He specifically mentions
English modal auxiliaries – extended by quasi-auxiliaries – which clearly form
such a system (the result of well charted grammaticalization processes), point-
ing out that this category is not obligatory in English. In most actual instances
of speech one chooses the ‘zero option’ of leaving the precise modality of the
utterance open (Slobin 2001:436). In other words, systematicity and obliga-
toriness do not necessarily go hand in hand. Systems may furthermore have
rather ragged edges at some stage of their diachronic development.
Epistemic modality – and therewith the principal means of expressing ev-
identiality in Eskimo languages – is no more nor less ‘systematized’ than other
sub-types of ‘sentential affixes’, namely those for tense, polarity and subjec-
tive attitude.15
It is optionally expressed: the speaker may choose to express it
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:21 F: TSL5413.tex / p.13 (303)
Evidentiality in West Greenlandic 
or not in a given utterance. The same applies a fortiori to the isolated quo-
tative enclitic -guuq. This in itself is not enough to write off the category as
unsystematic, however – in fact the pragmatic use of -guuq is itself quite sys-
tematic, if hardly constituting a ‘system’. The principles governing the presence
or absence of -sima-, for example, as described above, are perfectly system-
atic, and the affix itself belongs to a rather clear cut paradigmatic set of af-
fixes of epistemic modality, which can be used with any verbal sentence. But
it is only part of a broader category in Eskimo languages (that of epistemic
modality). Also the non-sentential affixes of ‘seeming’ under §2b form part of
a broader set of optional items, namely verb-extending affixes of ‘judging and
saying’ – but this is defined purely by their common semantics (in fact there
are two groups morphosyntactically – those that attach to nominal stems form
a separate verbalizing sub-group of ‘seeming/acting like’ affixes).
The situation is apparently similar in other polysynthetic languages of
North America that code this category morphologically (e.g. the Wakashan
ones such as Kwakwala as described by Boas 1911:496 – actually amongst the
first to be described as displaying affixes of evidentiality).16
On the other hand,
one would want to distinguish the situation in Eskimo languages from that in
Chukotko-Kamchatkan and Athabaskan ones, where the category is in a broad
sense only lexically expressed (by particles, adverbials and syntagmatic con-
structions). The only truly universally applicable criterion for distinguishing
the two cases would appear to be quite simply whether the category is ex-
pressed morphologically or not (irrespective of obligatoriness). Enclitics are
still a problem: whether these count as ‘morphological’ or not is largely a mat-
ter of definition. If West Greenlandic only had its quotative clitic (which ad-
heres to the first word in the clause) one would have to make a fairly arbitrary
choice as to whether to include it among languages that do systematically dis-
play evidentiality. As it is, the further involvement of ‘sentential’ affixes -sima-
and -gunar- is probably enough to state that this language does indeed belong
among such languages. Sentential affixes like these command a unique position
half-way between (optional) derivation and (obligatory) inflection in Eskimo
languages; such a stable, quasi-paradigmatic but non-obligatory formal cate-
gory may only be possible in languages with very rich verbal morphologies,
of course.
The formal ‘system’ utilized for expressing ‘core’ evidentiality in West
Greenlandic is thus its distributionally defined category of ‘sentential affixes’,
which covers the heterogenous – but semantically contiguous – area of tense-
modality-polarity-attitude (not inflectional mood, note). The common se-
mantic area which allows comparison with other languages can be called epis-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:21 F: TSL5413.tex / p.14 (304)
 Michael Fortescue
temic modality in the broadest sense. It can be directly correlated with what
Whitehead calls the ‘subjective form’ that adheres to all propositional judg-
ments (Whitehead 1978:231–233) – note that this also covers what is expressed
by attitudinal markers in West Greenlandic (and -nnguatsiar- at least does
bridge both epistemic and attitudinal senses historically), but hardly the prag-
matic use of -guuq. It is surely too much to expect, however, that formal and
semantic ‘systematization’ in this overall area should coincide neatly in all in-
dividual languages, given the indeterminacies of historical change, and West
Greenlandic is no exception in this respect.
Notes
. I would like to thank Frederikke (Naja) Blytmann Trondhjem for assistance with the ex-
ample sentences. Note the following orthographic conventions (close to those of the ‘new’
standard orthography but with the five orthographic vowels reduced to the phonemic three,
which are lowered and centralized before uvulars): g [γ], r [R], ll [łł], nng []]], and ti [tsi].
C refers to an always assimilated (or truncated) morpheme-final consonant (historical /g/
or /t/), and (r) to an intrusive /r/ after morpheme-final vowels.
. All these elements fall within Anderson’s (1986) definition of evidential morphemes as
not being predicates of clauses themselves but ‘about something else’, typically expressed
inflectionally or by clitics (or other free syntactic elements) rather than by derivation – pro-
vided, that is, that one realizes that West Greenlandic ‘sentential affixes’ are (at least seman-
tically) closer to inflection than to derivation (Anderson 1986:274f.). Non-sentential affixes
such as -(r)paluC- below still betray their derivational origins outside of true evidentiality.
. Sentential affixes – indicating tense, epistemic modality, negation and subjective attitude
(in that order if more than one is present) – must occur just before the obligatory inflection,
so cannot be followed by others (cf. Fortescue 1984:313ff.). Note that scope is transparently
cumulative from ‘left to right’.
. Thus isir-sima-sima-vuq (come.in-sima-sima-3sg+indic)means ‘he has apparently been
in/come home’, the first -sima- indicating state and the second indicating that the speaker
has not himself/herself witnessed this. Compare first person isirsimavunga ‘I am at home’
(with aspectual -sima-).
. More certain than -gunar-. Note that -ssa- also fills the preceding tense slot as an affix
of pure futurity, its original meaning (Danish future skal also has this epistemic sense, so
there may have been some influence). More common in the epistemic sense – especially of
a continuing perfective state – is the combination -simassa-, which contains resultative (or
perfect) -sima-.
. See Berthelsen et al. (1997) – the latest Greenlandic-Danish school dictionary – for fur-
ther examples. The translations there of the morphemes involved are more reliable than in
earlier dictionaries.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:21 F: TSL5413.tex / p.15 (305)
Evidentiality in West Greenlandic 
. Compare this with aqagu tiki-ssa-sima-vuq (tomorrow come-fut-sima-3sg+indic) ‘he
will apparently come tomorrow’, where the two affixes are reversed and -ssa- has its usual
future meaning.
. As an example of the (non-evidential?) use of these affixes in a subordinate object clause
of sensory perception observe the following:
ilaanikkut
occasionally
angallati-irar-palut-tuq
vehicle-small-sound.like-3sg+part
tusar-tar-paat
hear-hab-3pl/3sg+indic
‘Occasionally they would hear the sound of a small vehicle (passing by).’
. These so-called ‘double transitivizers’ can be added to either intransitive or transitive
stems (see Fortescue 1984:84f. for examples).
. Note also hypothetical affix -ssagaluar- ‘would ... if’, from future/epistemic -ssa- men-
tioned above, as in (ilinnut takutikkukku) tupigutsa-ssagaluar-putit (be.surprised-ssagaluar-
2sg+indic) ‘(if I showed it to you) you would be surprised’.
. Others are lureq ‘maybe’, enmen ‘they say, it is said’, and et‘6m ‘apparently’. The only affix
of such a meaning is nominal prefix mel-/mil- ‘it seems’ as in mel-umq6 ‘apparently a polar
bear’ (Skorik 1961:325).
. Compare the West Greenlandic mirative construction consisting of exclamatory particle
plus verb in the participial mood, as in:
sunaaffa
why!
piili-qar-tuq
car-have-3sg+part
‘Why, there is a car!’
. This probably explains why it follows -nngit- of sentential negation (which usually
follows epistemic modality and precedes attitudinal affixes).
. Interestingly, the Greenlandic news program on television in Greenland is called Qanu-
ruuq (qanuq ‘how’ plus quotative -guuq), which means either ‘what did he/they say?’ or – as
a fixed expression of greeting – ‘what’s new?’.
. Though future meaning must be expressed by a suitable affix if a future event is de-
scribed.
. More recently Jacobsen (1986) has described the similar situation in related Makah,
where evidentiality is expressed by a heterogenous variety of (at least) two different types of
non-obligatory suffix, namely incremental (inflection-like) and formative (lexical) suffixes.
The former correspond to WG epistemic sentential affixes, the latter – ‘where the focus of the
predication shifts from the suffix to the stem ... to provide merely a kind of epistemological
orientation’ – to the WG non-sentential affixes treated above, which like them commonly
derive predicates from ‘incorporated’ nominal bases (Jacobsen 1986:24f.).
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:30/12/2002; 13:21 F: TSL5413.tex / p.16 (306)
 Michael Fortescue
References
Anderson, L. B. (1986). Evidentials, paths of change, and mental maps: typologically regular
assymetries. In W. Chafe & J. Nichols (Eds.), Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of
Epistemology (pp. 273–312). Norwood, New Jersey: Ablex.
Bergsland, K. (1997). Aleut Grammar. Fairbanks: Alaska Native Language Center.
Berthelsen, C., Jacobsen, B., Kleivan, I., Petersen, R., & Rischel, J. (1997). Editors of Oqaatsit.
Grønlandsk-dansk ordbog (2nd edition). Nuuk: Atuakkiorfik/Ilinniusiorfik.
Boas, F. (1911). Kwakiutl. In F. Boas (Ed.), Handbook of American Indian Languages, Part 1
(pp. 423–557). Washington: Smithsonian Institution.
de Reuse, W. (1994). Siberian Yupik Eskimo, the Language and its Contact with Chukchi. Salt
Lake City: University of Utah Press.
Fortescue, M. (1984). West Greenlandic. Beckenham, Kent: Croom Helm.
Fortescue, M. (1995). Morphological versus Syntactic Direct and Indirect Speech in West
Greenlandic Eskimo. In S. Schousboe (Ed.), Embedding in Functional Grammar (pp.
7–33). Publications of Department of English 20, University of Copenhagen.
Fortescue, M., Kaplan, L., & Jacobson, S. (1994). Comparative Eskimo Dictionary with Aleut
Cognates. Fairbanks: Alaska Native Language Center.
Jacobsen, W. H. Jr. (1986). The heterogeneity of evidentials in Makah. In W. Chafe &
J. Nichols (Eds.), Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology (pp. 3–28). Nor-
wood, New Jersey: Ablex.
Jacobson, S. (1990). A Grammatical Sketch of Siberian Yupik Eskimo. Fairbanks: Alaska
Native Language Center.
Reed, I., Miyaoka, O., Jacobson, S., Afcan, P., & Krauss, M. (1977). Yup’ik Eskimo Grammar.
Fairbanks: Alaska Native Language Center.
Skorik, P. J. (1961). Grammatika Chukotskogo Jazyka. Moskva/Leningrad: Akademija
Nauk SSSR.
Slobin, D. (2001). Form-function relations: how do children find out what they are?. In
M. Bowerman & S. Levinson (Eds.), Language Acquisition and Conceptual Development
(pp. 406–449). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Vakhtin, N. B. (1995). Sintaksis jazyka aziatskikh eskimosov. [Syntax of the language of the
Asian Eskimos.] Sankt-Peterburg: Izdatel’stvo Evropejskogo Doma.
Whitehead, A. N. (1978). (first published 1929). Process and Reality. New York: The Free
Press.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.1 (307)
Chapter 14
Evidentials
Summation, questions, prospects
Brian D. Joseph
Introduction
Summing up the results of as interesting a set of reports as are presented in
the chapters of this volume is a daunting task to be sure, especially since the
topic of evidentiality does not particularly fall within my area of expertise, my
primary language of specialization being Greek, a language that does not show
any active participation in the grammatical marking of evidentiality. Thus, to
borrow an evidential technique of trying to distance myself from responsibility
for the task at hand, I must say up-front that I have no firsthand experience
with the notion to draw on here. But one does not have to be an expert to ap-
preciate both fine research and interesting linguistic phenomena, and the range
of perspectives on evidentiality treated in these chapters is both impressive and
stimulating to anyone with an interest in language, all the more so if the topic
falls outside one’s usual linguistic line of sight.
There are several areas covered in these chapters that deserve some com-
ment, especially with regard to certain recurring issues that appear throughout:
the semantics of evidentiality, the categorial status of evidentiality in particular
languages, the fate of evidentiality in contact situations, the origins of eviden-
tiality, and the methodology employed in studying the phenomenon. I address
these seriatim below, and then in closing, I signal some directions for further
research. I do this in part by applying lessons learned about evidentiality from
the works contained herein to a novel language not usually thought of in the
context of discussions of evidentiality and in part by mentioning some issues
that have not been definitively addressed in the preceding chapters.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.2 (308)
 Brian D. Joseph
. Semantics
A basic issue to confront with regard to evidentials is whether there is a core
meaning that covers all the various systems, categories, strategies, and tech-
niques that natural languages show for this phenomenon, and if so, what that
essential meaning is. Among other things, this task aims at finding the inter-
section of a number of functions and values that certain types of markers in a
language can have and trying to see which of these are basic, primary notions
and which are reasonably treated as extensions.
Some authors in this volume, e.g. Michael Fortescue (Chapter 13), have
located evidentiality at least in part in “epistemic modality”, i.e. having to do
with inferential judgments about knowledge (evaluating it as factual necessity,
probability, possibility, etc.), whereas others, e.g. R.M.W. Dixon (Chapter 7)
and Viacheslav Chirikba (Chapter 11), have seen it more as a matter of recep-
tion to information, assimilation of information, judgment regarding source
of information, or degree of certainty about the information, and one, Lars
Johanson (Chapter 12), uses the characterization of indirectivity for the basis
of evidential marking. These various concerns – all of which undoubtedly are
valid for some language or other and actually in no way mutually exclusive –
in turn bring to mind the Jakobsonian notion of “shifters”.1
That is, the ‘truth
value’ as it were, of a shifter differs according to context – the referent of I ut-
tered by me is different from that of I uttered by Paul McCartney for instance –
just as the ‘truth value’ imputed to a statement can shift according to the con-
text in which it is embedded and the perspective on an action that a speaker
takes, e.g. whose point of view is adopted. Since shifters typically involve deixis
(e.g. pronouns or demonstratives), evidentiality in part at least may well be
thought of therefore as connected to matters of deixis,2
in that in systems that
overtly mark evidentiality, utterances typically include indicators pointing di-
rectly to particular sources or away from potential sources, as the speaker takes
a particular point of view in describing an action.
While it is suggested below that searching for a core invariant meaning
for any category may be the wrong approach in general to take, nonetheless I
offer here my own hypothesis about the essence of the notion of evidentiality,
drawing in part on the notion of shifting of deixis.
Let me start by introducing yet another term that I consider to be a reason-
able characterization of what is going on with evidentiality: as suggested above,
marking for evidentials involves the speaker’s adopting a particular point of
view – I hereby call this a stance3
– with regard to information sources. This is
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.3 (309)
Evidentials 
consistent with the idea of looking at evidentiality as deixis, and especially with
thinking about it in terms of perspective and point of view.
Interestingly, some seemingly contradictory characterizations of what evi-
dentials allow or require one to do are given in various chapters in this volume.
In some languages/cultures, e.g. the Tariana that Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald de-
scribes so richly (Chapter 6), speakers appear to use a highly developed evi-
dential system to be as precise as possible about information sources whereas in
other languages/cultures, e.g. West Greenlandic Eskimo as described by Fortes-
cue (Chapter 13), speakers use a less developed evidential system as a way of
distancing themselves from having to be precise about information source; e.g.,
Fortescue (§2) describes the use of the “quotative enclitic” -guuq for what he
calls “mediated illocutions” and states that “reports with -guuq suggest dis-
placed responsibility for veridity”.
Are these contradictory functions compatible? I would argue that they are
indeed, and further that they represent two different but equally functional
responses – or, better, stances – to a basic constraint/principle of human inter-
action, and a basic stance: namely HEAR NO EVIL/SEE NO EVIL/(and espe-
cially) SPEAK NO EVIL, or in other words, AVOID (POTENTIAL) TROUBLE
(= AVOID NEGATIVE CONSEQUENCES).4
Both of these responses are ways
of avoiding possible negative outcomes. In the one type of response, by being
specific the speaker is giving him-/herself an out, as if stating “I didn’t say that
X was true; someone else did – I am just reporting things as I heard them or
inferred them”; in the other, by being vague the speaker is also giving him-/
herself an out, as if stating “This may be true; I don’t know for sure and it isn’t
clear where the information comes from but I pass it along to you in case it
interests you or is important to you”.
There are linguistic parallels for looking for a common denominator in
seemingly contradictory phenomena. These isofunctional ways of satisfying an
AVOID TROUBLE constraint are like the situation in phonology, where, for in-
stance, one language might satisfy an AVOID CONSONANT CLUSTERS con-
straint by cluster reduction and another might accomplish the same goal by
vowel epenthesis.
More tellingly, in the realm of semantics, the range of meanings – whether
primary meanings or secondary extensions – seen in various evidentiality sys-
tems compares very interestingly in its scope with the wide range of meanings
found with diminutivity as a “category” (cf. Jurafsky 1996). Note for instance
that it is common for diminutives to have a physical sense (presumably but
not necessarily the primary sense) but also various extended senses, including
an endearing value as well as a directly opposite derogatory value, with quite
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.4 (310)
 Brian D. Joseph
a range in between (ordinariness, nonthreateningness, powerlessness, etc.), to-
gether with the possibility for irony and sarcasm thrown into the mix as well. To
some extent, the semantics of diminutivity can be viewed in terms of a stance
that a speaker takes toward some object, an evaluation of the speaker’s mer-
its and strengths, so to speak, compared with those of the object. In that way,
there is a situational and structural parallel with the semantics of evidentiality
(though there is no implication here that the semantics of one have anything
to do with the semantics of the other).
. Category status
Another question that arises several times in the preceding chapters, though
perhaps without a definitive answer, is how much and what sorts of evidence
are needed to permit talking about a grammatical category in the case of evi-
dentiality marking. This is of course a broader question that goes beyond just
evidentiality, namely how do we argue for linguistic categories in general? This
question is relevant to the issue of how to distinguish between English-type
circumlocutory indication of evidentiality from the Turkish-type described by
Lars Johanson (Chapter 12) or the Tariana-type. Is it enough just to talk about
obligatory marking vs. optional marking, or does affixal vs. periphrastic mark-
ing matter? Is paradigmaticity relevant here, i.e., whether the marking is part
of a recognizable verbal paradigm? Do we focus on form, as Fortescue suggests
(§9) by emphasizing morphological expression, or on meaning, as Aikhenvald
implies (though perhaps does not wholeheartedly endorse), or both?
It is probably worth noting that two recent dictionaries of linguistic termi-
nology, Trask (1993) and Matthews (1997) are quite vague in their definitions
of the term ‘category’:
Trask (p. 37) – ‘a term of very wide and diverse application, variously denoting
any of several classes of formal objects’.
Matthews (p. 48) – ‘any class or system of grammatical or lexical units distin-
guished at some level in the structure of a language’.
Moreover, Trask goes on to say that ‘usage of the term is so varied that no gen-
eral definition is possible; in practice, a category is simply any class of related
grammatical objects which someone wants to consider’.
Clearly, if there is no agreement as to what is needed to constitute a cate-
gory, a decision as to whether some entity or set of entities is a category is not
going to be possible.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.5 (311)
Evidentials 
This situation does not mean that anything goes, however; the general cri-
teria mentioned above – obligatoriness, morphological vs. lexical, etc. – are all
worth considering, but it is not clear that they will advance the cause at all, or
even bring it to any sort of satisfying point.
Part of the problem is that probably all languages have some means of in-
dicating one’s degree of taking a covering stance towards statements and events
that are not a matter of category or grammar per se. This insight is what is
behind the distinction made by Aikhenvald in her position paper (Chapter 1)
between an evidentiality strategy and an evidentiality system. We run the risk
of vitiating the whole enterprise of examining evidentiality if we are so broad
in our investigation and classification as to include every means under the sun,
strategies as well as systems.5
Thus the matter of defining and identifying categories becomes especially
important as a way of deciding whether one is confronting in a particular lan-
guage a strategy or a system, since category status implies a degree of embed-
ding in the grammatical apparatus of a language and thus true systematicity.
Still, one key issue brought out by Aikhenvald in Chapter 1 is the fact that
the realization of evidentiality can be manifested across different parts of the
grammar, what she referred to as ‘scattered realization’, a phenomenon also
exemplified in this volume by West Greenlandic Eskimo (see Fortescue’s Chap-
ter 13) and by Western Apache (as described by Willem de Reuse in Chapter 4).
My suggestion here is that such cases can indeed be a cognitive “system” and
can in fact be a significant linguistic category, what we might informally call
a ‘scattergory’ (to borrow from the name of the Milton Bradley board game,
Scattergories).
Of particular relevance here is the construct that I have argued for else-
where in a number of publications with my colleague and collaborator Richard
Janda, namely the linguistic constellation, as discussed, e.g., by Janda & Joseph
1986, and Joseph & Janda 1988. The basic problem that a constellation is
designed to solve can be summed up as how to capture ‘unity-in-diversity,
diversity-in-unity’ among linguistic objects, i.e. situations in which a group
of potentially relatable elements show both similarities and differences. We de-
fine a (rule) constellation as a set of elements which share at least one charac-
teristic property of form but are distinguished by individual idiosyncrasies –
both of form and of function – that prevent their being collapsed with one an-
other, and we posit moreover that the identity of the shared formal elements
is shown by a meta-(level) redundancy-rule, or ‘(partial) meta-template’, which
equates (or “parses”) all relevant instances of a particular formal configura-
tion that share certain properties. Moreover, these two constructs are related,
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.6 (312)
 Brian D. Joseph
in that morphological constellations are ensembles of distinct or uncollapsi-
ble word-formational rules or morphemes united by meta-templates which
express the formal and functional identities these morphological rules or mor-
phemic elements share. The constellation then recognizes the differential prop-
erties among elements and the meta-(level) redundancy rule expresses their
similarities.
Examples of this construct discussed in the literature include Sanskrit
reduplication (Janda & Joseph 1986), the Modern Greek sometime negator
mi(n) (Janda & Joseph 1999), Arapesh plural marking (Dobrin 2001), and
Hindi postpositional ko (Vasishth & Joseph 2002), and in each such case, the
elements or processes in question show enough similarity to warrant want-
ing to unify them but also enough differences to prevent collapsing them eas-
ily into a single element at some level of analysis. In a sense, with such ele-
ments, we thus locate the ‘category’ in their union rather than (as is more cus-
tomary in linguistic analysis) in their intersection. In this way, one does not
have to look, as attempted above regarding the semantics of evidentiality, for a
core/invariant/primary meaning, since ultimately, that can prove to be a tricky
enterprise at best.
Thinking of categories in terms of constellations, moreover, might help
to solve some minor problems that come up in the analysis of evidentials in
particular languages. For instance, under a constellational point of view, the
situation that Johanson describes for Turkish in Chapter 12 may be interpreted
somewhat differently. That is, he argues (§§6–7) that the Turkish inflectional
suffix -mIş, a ‘marker of indirectivity, mostly with past time reference’, and the
allomorphs of the copula imIş (with suffixal forms -(y)miş) are different en-
tities synchronically, since, among other things, they attach to different cat-
egories of host, though many ‘linguists ... confuse the two’. Yet, given their
similarity in form and similarities in function, any such differences in and
of themselves need not be a basis for rejecting a connection between two el-
ements – Greek mi(n)(-), for instance, has realizations as an affix and as a sep-
arate word, thus with very different distributions, but they are nonetheless re-
latable, constellationally. A definitive assessment remains to be made of course,
as not all potentially connectable elements are in fact to be connected, even
under a constellational approach. Still, if the notion of ‘sameness’ and thus cat-
egorization is broadened constellationally, then if there are some features that
link two elements, it may be that they can be connected, even in the face of
some differences.
Morphological constellations are more like ‘family resemblance’ sets or a
‘fuzzy category’ in the sense of Rosch (1975) – interestingly, this latter con-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.7 (313)
Evidentials 
struct is referred to by de Reuse Chapter 4 (§8) in his characterization of the
Western Apache evidential system – or the formal side to Lakoffian radius-and-
hub semantic networks (as in Lakoff 1987) than they are like morphemes in the
sense of structural linguistics, yet they provide a useful addition to the range
of linguistic basic entities. Importantly, the “constellation” seems to be use-
ful here with regard to evidentials. The ‘scattered realization’ of evidentiality
within various languages would seem to be exactly the sort of linguistic phe-
nomenon that would lend itself to treatment – and unification in the face of
difference – under a constellational approach.
Yet another side of the category question is what constraints or limits there
are – if any – on the range of evidential (etc.) categories a language might en-
code. The preceding chapters present systems with a number of categories –
from two-term systems (see Aikhenvald, Chapter 1, §1)6
to five-term systems,
Tariana being the most complex described in detail. But is five the upper limit?
Aikhenvald (Chapter 1) does refer to the system in the Papuan language Fasu
(see also Foley 1986) that has 6 distinctions, as shown by these 6 ways of
translating the English sentence ‘It is coming’:
apere ‘I see it’
perarakae ‘I hear it
pesareapo ‘I infer it from other evidence’
pesapakae ‘Somebody says so, but I don’t know who’
pesaripo ‘Somebody says so, and I know who’
pesapi ‘I suppose so’
Of course, it is not clear that these are all grammatical distinctions, and there
are languages which are said to have more distinctions (e.g. Makah, cf. Jacobsen
1986, reportedly with 8 distinctions) but not necessarily all of a fully grammat-
ical nature. Still, this question of upper limits is one that cannot be ignored.
More generally, it is well-known that systems that encode perception of the
world can be very elaborate. The situation with noun classes (‘gender’) is a case
in point, for there are certainly languages with more than 6 classes (e.g. many
Bantu languages, where even more noun classes, as many as 23, are often re-
ported, though the actual number depends on how one measures what counts
as a ‘different’ class),7
and there is no clear upper limit cross-linguistically.
Furthermore, when one moves out of the realm of perception-encoding
classes, and looks to such areas as morphological noun class or verb-stem class,
‘systems’ (or at least sets of forms) can be found that are far more numerous
in their membership. For instance, the Latin classification into 5 noun declen-
sions and 4 verb conjugations can be cited, especially when one considers how
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.8 (314)
 Brian D. Joseph
artificial these are and how one really needs instead to recognize numerous sub-
classes within the Latin 3rd declension.8
And, the situation can get even worse
if Gross (1979) is taken seriously about the number of ‘frames’ (read: ‘(sub-)
categories’) needed for a full description of French verbal complement subcat-
egorization – there are some 2000 or so distinct patterns of complementation,
by his reckoning.
These cases are perhaps different since they involve arbitrary classes, but
they do show that speakers can juggle sets of entities with a rather large number
of members. It is unlikely therefore that any real limit could ever be recognized.
Moreover, in this regard, if there were such a limit, it would need to be asked if it
is a practical limit, i.e., a limit imposed by independent forces of discourse and
human interaction and human cognition, or instead is one that is somehow a
purely linguistic universal.
. Diffusibility
I turn now to evidentials and language contact. Several chapters point to the
extreme diffusibility of evidentials and suggest that they are ‘handy’ and useful
in some sense. And, there certainly are numerous documentable instances of
the diffusion of evidentials, as Victor Friedman shows for the Balkans (Chap-
ter 8) and Aikhenvald for Amazonia (Chapter 6). Thus it behooves us to pay
attention to evidentiality and contact. In particular, it is fair to ask why eviden-
tiality should be a category that is easily borrowed/diffused between languages
(or at least relatively so).
Going out on a limb somewhat, let me suggest a reason, namely that it
might have to do with the pragmatics of what would go on in a contact situa-
tion involving imperfect bilinguals.
Consider the contact scenario between speakers of a language that has ev-
identiality marking (E) and of one that does not (N), where both have a rudi-
mentary command of the other’s language (an essential in contact if there is to
be any contact-induced change) – E says something (UE for ‘utterance by E’)
and it has evidentials in it as marking for evidentiality is an obligatory part of
E’s grammar; N is caught unawares by the extra information that is present in
E’s utterance and struggles to figure out what is there. Moreover, when N says
something (UN) to E in E, and does not include any marking for evidentiality,
E will feel that something is missing and may query N about it, leading N to
realize that he had better include something to that effect another time.9
There-
fore, even though we might think a priori that there would be simplification in
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.9 (315)
Evidentials 
such a situation, and that the more complex utterance-type would be given up
in favor of the less complex, it seems plausible that to meet the communicative
needs of both speakers in such a situation, the grammar that provides more
information would actually prevail.
This outcome would not necessarily be the case with all linguistic features
in contact situations, but rather only those that bear directly on transfer of in-
formation – for instance, the placement of a definite article, a feature which has
been involved in language contact in the Balkans, is not contentful, in and of
itself.10
As a result, while such a feature could spread, and the postposed cer-
tainly seems to have spread in the Balkans,11
its spread would not be tied to
pragmatics in any way. Thus, informativeness cannot be all there is to gram-
matical diffusion, and further, simplification does take place in some contact
situations.
Nonetheless, these considerations might lead one to predict that eviden-
tials will always spread, though with the added condition that the contact must
be of the right type in terms of intensity and cultural pressure (cf. the ‘borrow-
ing scale’ of Thomason & Kaufman 1988:74–75). However, counter-examples
appear immediately: Aikhenvald in Chapter 1 (§8) points out that evidentials
have been lost under contact in Retuarã, Johanson in Chapter 12 (§17) refers to
the loss of evidentials in Turkish dialects and Turkic languages in contact with
Indo-European in Trabzon and in Lithuania, and there is as well the failure
of Greek and Romani in the Balkans (a hotbed of evidentiality diffusability) to
take on Turkish evidentials, and so on. So perhaps the hypothesis here is simply
wrong, but some insight can be gained by looking to socio-historical reasons
for the lack of diffusion of evidentials – in the case of Balkan Greek,12
it prob-
ably has to do with the attitude Greek speakers have about their language (i.e.,
a stance different from that indicated in §1 but still not irrelevant), the literary
tradition of Greek, the identification of Greek with religion, the importance of
religion in identity formation among Greeks, and the like; regarding Romani, it
is relevant that its speakers are involved in one-way not reciprocal bilingualism;
with regard to Greek in Trabzon, it must be borne in mind that it was the domi-
nant language in the speech community that speakers would eventually have to
assimilate into.13
That is, in these cases, as in all contact situations, as Thoma-
son and Kaufman (1988) have repeatedly stressed, social factors rule – there are
no purely structural imperatives that guide outcomes in contact situations.
In any case, in a substratum situation in which there is language shift,
rather than adstratal contact, the prediction might be different. If an E speaker
has to shift to a non-E language, s/he has to learn to suppress E’s if the contact
is going to be mainly with real non-E speakers and the E group’s population is
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.10 (316)
 Brian D. Joseph
not large (or powerful) enough to make an impact in the overall speech com-
munity. If on the other hand, s/he uses non-E mainly with other nonnative
speakers of non-E who come from E-language backgrounds (e.g. Turks and
Bulgarians in a Gastarbeiter-type situation in Germany), then it seems possi-
ble that an E-version of the non-E language could emerge for use among those
various E and non-E speakers, again in response to their communicative needs
and expectations.
One other significant concern with regard to language contact involv-
ing evidentials, besides attending to the exact nature of the contact situation
and social/communicative interaction involved, is the determination of which
forms would be used most frequently by speakers in a contact situation. It
stands to reason that frequency could well play an important role in guiding
the outcome of language contact, since speakers most likely have no access to
structural markedness, except insofar as it is reflected in frequency of usage.
. Origins
In light of the spread of evidentiality, it must be realized that evidentials can
also arise independentlyin a language; in one sense, they have to be able to since
without independent origin in at least one language, there would never be such
a category anywhere in any language that could diffuse. It is thus appropriate
to consider the issue of the kinds of sources for evidentials that can be found.
The preceding chapters give examples of past, perfect, and future forms
all apparently serving as elements that feed into the marking of evidential-
ity. Similarly, elements having to do with saying have been linked to quota-
tive and reportive markers. Other possibilities must surely be considered –
Botne (1995), for instance, has argued for a pronominal origin for an eviden-
tial marker in the Bantu language Lega – especially once evidential strategies
are taken into account, as the range of available adverbials is quite broad. Such
developments are generally considered, these days at least, under the rubric of
‘grammaticalization’.
It in fact need not be disturbing that a few different ‘pathways’ for the
emergence of evidentials are available, as long as a plausible link can be demon-
strated amongst them and/or the logic of a particular development can be de-
fended. If there can be manifestations of the expression of evidentiality that
are as different as those catalogued in the various languages presented in this
volume, then it is reasonable that there could be many different ways to reach
those points.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.11 (317)
Evidentials 
Still, a cautionary note about ‘grammaticalization’ and ‘pathways’ is in or-
der. A tacit assumption that many linguists make and seem to accept quite
readily is that if there is a main verb or lexical item with a given form and an
appropriately evidential-like meaning, as well as a grammatical piece such as
an affix that had an appropriate meaning in the same language or a related lan-
guage, then one is justified to say that the affix was derived historically from
the fuller lexical item. In fact, claims have even been made, e.g. by Hopper and
Traugott (1993:128–129) that all affixes and grammatical material have a ‘prior
lexical history’. Given the belief that many proponents of grammaticalization
have that the only movement one finds with grammatical elements is from
less grammatical to more grammatical (the so-called ‘unidirectionality princi-
ple’ – see Hopper and Traugott 1993 and Haspelmath 1998 for discussion, and
Janda 2001 for a compelling contrary discussion), this is a natural assumption
to make. However, it is incontrovertible that ‘counter-directional’ movement,
from more grammatical to less grammatical, is indeed possible and is reason-
ably well-attested, even if less frequent in absolute terms than the reverse. Some
70 or more cases in the literature are cited and discussed in Janda (2001) and
other examples are given in Joseph (2001) and Newmeyer (2001).
That being the case, we have to be cautious in inferring a lexical source
for affixal evidentiality, however reasonable it may seem. That is, a grammati-
cal marker -X and a lexical item XY with similar meanings could in principle
be related to one another not via reduction of XY to give X but instead via
a reanalysis/resegmentation/liberation/demorphologization of -X and an aug-
mentation of the newly freed or recognized base to give XY. Since delocutive
derivations are possible, in which an element involved in a speech act becomes
the basis for a derivative,14
and since a piece of a word can be liberated (by
whatever process – the exact means is irrelevant) as with -ism being cut off of
communism/socialism etc. and being treated as a lexical item (as in the great isms
of the modern world), why in principle could an affix with a discourse function
not be extracted out of that discourse and treated as the basis for lexical deriva-
tion? Thus even if reconstruction of a lexical source for an affix is reasonable,
it is not 100% certain and should never be treated as such.15
In this context,
an observation made by Fortescue in Chapter 13 is particularly important: he
states (§7) that at least some affixal evidential elements in modern Eskimo lan-
guages are reconstructible as affixes for Proto-Eskimo-Aleut, thus dating back
some 3000 years as such, with no (obvious or likely) lexical sources.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.12 (318)
 Brian D. Joseph
. Methodology
All of these musings would not be possible without the right methods to get at
the data. Just about everything discussed in this volume is based on naturally
occurring conversation or narration or on textual evidence; only very rarely
did a researcher have to resort to the elicitation of data cold from informants.
Furthermore, in the discussion at the workshop, it was noted overtly by many
how hard it is to elicit data on the use of evidentials, yet it was also recognized
that sometimes there is no other way – sometimes the situations that would test
whether evidentials are used in a particular way simply do not occur often in
the course of natural and ordinary conversational interactions or in texts. Thus,
in some instances, one has to resort to whatever means one can, and elicitation
is often the answer. Moreover, as Pilar Valenzuela notes in Chapter 2 (§1), elic-
itation can be useful in indicating the need for evidentials, since ‘it becomes
evident that any declarative sentence [in Shipibo] requires the use of either -ra
or -ronki to be considered fully acceptable; their omission would simply yield
“incomplete” sentences’. Also, there can be some real value to knowing what
can not be said or used, and that is something that is not derivable simply from
texts.16
A real issue though – appropriate enough to ask in the context of discussing
evidentiality – is what can we know here? Speakers clearly can manipulate ev-
identiality markings/strategies for dramatic or narrative or pragmatic effect,
e.g. to convey irony (noted by Friedman in Chapter 8, e.g., §§2.2.2, 3.2); if so,
the analyst is thus seemingly placed in the role of literary critic or narratologist,
moving out of science and the objective and into more subjective evaluations
of materials. This is perhaps inevitable, but one has to wonder whether at such
a point we are entirely engaging in ‘the science of language’, to use a common
characterization of the field of linguistics.
Thus there would seem to be a danger in reading too much into exam-
ples found in texts and in conversations, but also in relying too heavily on the
reflective statements of native informants. To some extent, though, there is a
real dilemma here. On the one hand one has to look to texts and spontaneous
speech for ‘real’ data, yet at the same time also do some elicitation. In the latter
case, one can argue that native speakers are the authorities, but linguists have
also long recognized that native speakers’ knowledge of their language gener-
ally involves knowledge that is not readily accessible to them for reflection and
discussion.17
If so, can we ever expect to get fully reliable information by asking
informants why they chose a particular marker or phraseology?
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.13 (319)
Evidentials 
There is no obvious solution to this problem, other than simply being
aware of the methodological limitations: we have to mine all of the potential
sources of information but also be cautious not to rely too heavily on any one
type of data. We have to be open to the possibility that we might not be able to
know all that we might like to about these elements – this is not necessarily an
agnostic stance, but rather a realistic one.
One very promising methodological angle is to test what happens with ev-
identiality marking when speakers are confronted with new technology; thus,
television or the telephone or even books, or other advances still to come (3D
graphics or olfactory internet sites, etc.) offer an exciting prospect for test-
ing hypotheses about evidentials, and intriguing data on that topic is to be
found in Chapter 3 by Randy LaPolla on Qiang and in Chapter 6 by Aikhenvald
on Tariana.
This particular methodology sparks some random but interrelated
thoughts. It is fair to wonder, for instance, if there might be changes in a rela-
tively short period of time in how technological innovations are treated from
an evidential point of view as speakers grow more accustomed to them and see
them more as an everyday sort of piece of their material culture. The situation
with photography in the mid-19th century is instructive in this regard: when
this new technology first came into the public’s consciousness, photographs
were thought to be unassailable records of what actually happened, the ulti-
mate in fully verifiable and confirmatory technology, until, that is, someone
came up with the further technology of trick photography. One could imagine
speakers of an evidentiality language using one sort of evidential at first with
photos until they learn more about them and come to realize that looks can be
deceiving even in photographs; perhaps they would then switch to a different
kind of evidential at that point. Again, a speaker’s stance towards the photo-
graph is at issue, and that conceivably could also be a personality issue, subject
to individual differences, e.g., if someone were regularly a ‘doubting Thomas’.
The reference in Aikhenvald’s Chapter 1 (§9) to dreams and evidentiality
in a sense provides a glimpse into reactions to technological advances, and so
also with the effects of alcohol or any intoxicant,18
since these situations might
be thought of as the first kind of ‘technology’ that speakers with an eviden-
tial system had to figure out what to do with. Alcohol is of course a very old
‘technology’ and mind-altering substances occur in nature, but at some point
speakers must have realized that things happen while one is under the influence
and that it is possible to talk about those events; so also are dreams of course
common to all humanity, but there must have been a point where speaking
humans realized that what goes on in their heads while asleep is a shared expe-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.14 (320)
 Brian D. Joseph
rience that they can talk to others about. If those speakers spoke an evidentiality
language, then some choices would have to be made, and that would have been
a novel testing ground for studying evidentials, something that is not readily
available in the same way now.19
Or is it? In a sense, studying the acquisition of evidentials by children is
a fertile testing ground: when, for instance, does a child learn to talk about
his/her dreams? Are there changes in the way children talk about them – or
other sensory-based ‘knowledge’ – at different stages of their cognitive devel-
opment? And so on – we can thus keep child language acquisition as an area
for future research regarding evidentials.
. Towards a conclusion – Applying new insights?
By way of testing if the insights contained in this volume have extension be-
yond the languages discussed herein, we can consider the enterprise of the
reconstruction of Proto-Indo-European (PIE). In particular, PIE is not gen-
erally reconstructed as having anything like evidential marking; indeed, one
of the telling pieces of evidence that points to the appearance of evidential-
ity in three different branches of Indo-European in the Balkans (Albanian,
Italic (via Romanian and Vlah), and Slavic, as Friedman so convincingly ar-
gues in Chapter 8) and in Lithuanian (cf. Aikhenvald in Chapter 1, §8) as being
an innovation, possibly contact-induced, is the overwhelmingly agreed upon
reconstruction of PIE as not having evidential marking.
Even though the chronology and the geography of the appearance of ev-
identiality in these branches of Indo-European would require that they be
treated as an innovation, and thus relatively recent developments, it is inter-
esting to reconsider the question of evidentiality in PIE, to see if there might
be any basis for reconstructing the proto-language differently. As it happens,
there are a few assorted facts from various Indo-European languages that point
in the direction of some sort of at least primitive evidential system early on in
the family. As such, they provide a useful case-study, showing what applying
the results of the investigation of evidentiality to a novel domain can lead to.
First, the oldest attested branch of IE, namely Anatolian, has a well-
entrenched bound-word20
element that is generally called a ‘quotative’ marker
and which is used to indicate direct speech; this is the form -wa(r) that occurs
in Hittite (-wa before consonants, -war before vowels), Luvian, and Palaic. The
presence of a quotative marker in and of itself need not tell anything about evi-
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.15 (321)
Evidentials 
dentiality, except that under each of its possible etymologies, there is something
striking from the point of view of systemic evidential marking.
One hypothesis – the standard view, cf. Friedrich (1952:s.v.) – derives -war
from the verb ‘say’ (*werH- as in Latin ver-b-um ‘word’, Greek eíro: < *werH-
yo:, and Hittite weriya- ‘say’). Under this view, the development of -war is like
other quotative strategies discussed in previous chapters, and may involve a
direct assertion about the truth of what follows, or else a way of marking clearly
at least who is responsible for the truth of the words in question. The other
competing hypothesis, argued for most recently by Joseph (1981), takes -war
to be from an adverbial *-wo (maybe a disjunctive marker, cf. Sanskrit va: ‘or’)
plus an adverbial suffix *-r (as in English where/here/there). Under that view,
the use of a cognate form, Sanskrit iva (thus, *i-wo) ‘like; thus’ is interesting,
since iva can be used in a mitigating sense in the oldest layers of Sanskrit (Vedic
Sanskrit), e.g. rebhati iva ‘he is making noise, as it were’ – the mitigation here
may reflect a type of equivocating about the truth of the asserted statement,
and if so, may suggest some distancing on the speaker’s part from the content
of the statement. To get from that distancing to a direct quote use in Hittite,
if that is indeed the path of development, would involve treating the Hittite
usage as a way of distancing oneself from the direct statement that follows by
being specific about the source (i.e., these are not my words, but rather are
what X says).
Second, in Vedic Sanskrit there is a special verbal mood, referred to in many
discussions as the ‘injunctive’, which has past tense endings but no past tense
prefix, e.g. gamam (1sg of gam- ‘go’) which is used among other things for
timeless truths and statements in the mythic past; this is paralleled by the so-
called ‘gnomic aorist’ in Greek, in which a past-tense form (the aorist) is used
for timeless truths. In Greek the past tense prefix became obligatory and so the
simple past with the prefix continues functionally the form seen in the Vedic
injunctive, which can thus be projected back into PIE. Interestingly, some lan-
guages with evidential systems, e.g. Jarawara as discussed by Dixon (Chapter 7)
and Tariana as discussed by Aikhenvald (Chapter 6), have a special marking
for the expression of timeless statements, essentially unwitnessed but part of
common knowledge, as part of that system. To the extent, then, that the PIE
injunctive had such a function, it may well be yet another piece suggesting that
evidentiality was relevant in PIE.
There are as well various sorts of lexical evidence which might point to
evidentiality marking in PIE, e.g. seemingly synonymous but formally distinct
roots for ‘know’ (*g’neH-, as in Greek gnó:-sko:, and *weyd-, as in Greek oída)
that invite the possibility of the encoding of different types of knowledge or
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.16 (322)
 Brian D. Joseph
modes of knowing. Overall, though, the evidence is at best suggestive, and
clearly a lot more remains to be worked out before one can say that these bits
and pieces scattered here and there across the whole family actually add up to
a supportable claim that PIE is to be reconstructed with even an evidentiality
strategy let alone a system (discussed further in Joseph 2002c). Still, this discus-
sion shows that the insights that have emerged from this volume are applicable
to novel domains and can at the very least make practitioners in all language
families, even those languages that have not been significant players on the ev-
idential pitch – diggers in the evidential trenches, so to speak – sit up and take
notice; evidentiality clearly is a response to a basic human desire and to the dy-
namics of human interaction, and as such, is something that all languages may
well have some reflection of in some way.
. Conclusion – Some unanswered (and maybe unasked) questions
To bring these remarks to a close, by way of pointing to some prospects for
future research, I signal here some issues and questions that are unanswered or
unaddressed and possibly, for some of them, even unasked before this:
a. As already mentioned, there is the intriguing matter of language acquisi-
tion (about which more can be learned, though Aksu-Koç & Slobin 1986
offer a start in that regard).
b. Why do evidentials develop in language X but not in language Y even under
similar stimuli? Is it in their “group psychology”, their shared culture, their
shared attitudes, etc.? We may have a partial answer to that in regard to
the resistance of some languages (e.g. Greek, see §3 above) to borrowing
evidentials, but clearly more is needed here.
c. If one were to map evidentials on a global basis, are there geographically
coherent areas that are devoid of evidentials? An even more basic ques-
tion: is mapping even a fruitful enterprise here? Is there something to
be learned from the geography of evidentiality-marking languages? How
would this exercise interact with the matter of deciding categorial status for
evidentiality? Is it important to focus also on the time-period the mapping
might refer to?
d. Does the size of the speech community have any correlation with the size
or nature of the evidential system?21
Here we have to realize that even
in a language with thousands or even millions of speakers, there can be
pockets of very limited interaction where speakers are in a relatively closed
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.17 (323)
Evidentials 
community even if there are potential links to larger numbers outside the
community.
e. What happens when there are multiple sources of information present?
Is there a hierarchy that speakers follow? Is it culturally determined or is
it possibly universal? Does the apparent default status of visually based
information hold across all languages and cultures?
f. Clearly, ‘distancing’ matters with respect to evidentiality, and it is usually a
mental or cognitive distancing or perhaps a temporal distancing (note the
Jarawara remote past that Dixon describes in Chapter 7) – is ‘distance’ just
a metaphor here, or can we talk of physical distance mattering too? What
about being physically removed from the source of information – does that
affect evidentiality marking at all? Is auditorily based information perhaps
the physical analogue (no immediate visual stimuli) to the metaphorical
distancing?
g. Are there other types of distancing ploys that speakers might utilize that are
not evidentially based, and if so, do they have any relation to evidentiality?
For example, 1996 U.S. presidential candidate Bob Dole had the habit of re-
ferring to himself in the 3rd person (e.g. he would say ‘Bob Dole will work
for you’ instead of ‘I will work ...’) – is this a type of stepping out of one-
self, distancing oneself as an individual from oneself as speaker/narrator?22
More generally, what about the very large area involving social distanc-
ing that politeness strategies and honorific systems provide? Are they at all
(to be) connected with evidentials? An intriguingly suggestive bit of data
comes from Shipibo-Konibo, where, as described by Valenzuela in Chapter
2 (§5), one of the functions of the speculative marker mein is a courtesy
use in interrogatives.
Putting all these remaining issues together, we see that there is still more to be
learned about evidentiality, despite the very considerable progress towards an
understanding of this phenomenon that the papers in this volume collectively
constitute. Such a situation is actually a positive note to end on, though, since it
both validates the utility of the investigation to date and points to its on-going
vitality.
Notes
. This term, from Jakobson (1957), was mentioned explicitly by Sally McLendon in the
context of evidentiality during the general discussion at the end of the workshop that this
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.18 (324)
 Brian D. Joseph
volume is based on, quite reasonably of course since the 1957 paper is where Jakobson
discusses evidentiality in his treatment of the Slavic verb.
. This very notion was brought out explicitly in the general discussion by Dr. Ilana Mushin
of The University of Melbourne. Moreover, Elena Maslova (Chapter 9) refers in her §1 to
evidentiality as an ‘essentially deictic category’.
. Much to my surprise and delight, I learned only after first formulating these thoughts at
the workshop itself that Mushin (2001) comes to the same conclusion and uses this same
term; I am happy to have been anticipated by her and feel that to some extent, our each
coming up with this characterization of evidentiality independently is an indication of it
being on the right track.
. More crudely put, perhaps, this can be called a “cover one’s rear” stance.
. This very apposite point was made explicitly by Bob Dixon during the general discussion
at the end of the workshop that this volume is based on.
. Timothy Curnow (p.c.) suggested that one might view a two-term system of the sort X
vs. non-X as really a one-term system, so that could be taken to be the most basic (and
in any case would contrast with a zero-term ‘system’, i.e. a language with no marking for
evidentiality).
. I would like to thank my colleague David Odden for help interpreting the Bantu facts.
. There is at least the traditional distinction between i-stems and non-i-stems in that class,
and the -io- vs. non-io- distinction in the 3rd verbal conjugation, and those are far from the
only sub-distinctions one has to make.
. Without belaboring the point, by the same token, if an E-speaker uses N, s/he might feel
obliged to add in more information, to find a way in N to say E-type material; these strate-
gies could then get encoded into the grammar of N if an N-speaker uses them in speaking
N to an E-speaker, accommodating to the E-speaker’s usage and/or expectations. In the dis-
cussion at the workshop, two anecdotal references to this phenomenon were reported: Sasha
Aikhenvald noted that Tariana speakers in their Portuguese give the impression of including
far more information than might be expected or ordinarily called for, and Victor Fried-
man reported the excessive use in his own English of disclaiming and confirmatory adverbs
whenever he returns from the Balkans. It is as if crucial information is felt to be missing
when one shifts from an evidential language to a nonevidential one. See also Friedman’s
Chapter 8 (§9) where he notes that ‘speakers of Turkic and Balkan Slavic languages have
reported feeling the absence of a nonconfirmative verb form when speaking English’.
. Definiteness clearly carries communicative content, but the placement of the marking
of definiteness is not obviously tied to content and instead seems somewhat arbitrary.
. In this case, however, the spread may have been a matter of substratum influence,
not the adstratum sort of situation envisioned here in this hypothetical scenario involving
evidentiality.
. As suggested by Victor Friedman in the discussion at the workshop.
. This is the case also with the Tariana eventually learning correct Portuguese or with
Victor Friedman returning to normal English usage (see Note 9 above); under those cir-
cumstances, ultimately the more prestigeful and dominant norm prevails.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.19 (325)
Evidentials 
. Consider for instance a verbal use such as My sons can please-and-thank-you with the
best of them! or Benveniste’s famous example of French tutoyer ‘talk down to’ from the use
of tu and toi as markers of lower status and lack of respect/politeness.
. We might even think of assigning a probability quotient to such ‘unidirectionality-based’
reconstructions instead of an asterisk; on this suggestion for comparative reconstruction in
general, see Janda & Joseph (2002:§1.3.1).
. In the discussion at the workshop, this limitation on natural conversational data was
noted by Victor Friedman. Timothy Curnow added the important caveat regarding the use
of large textual corpora that while statistics on a large corpus can be suggestive as to what
is unlikely or impossible, the absence of an item from a corpus is not the same thing as that
item being absolutely impossible in the language.
. This important point was brought out by Bob Dixon in the workshop discussion.
. As suggested by Aikhenvald in her presentation of material for the introduction at the
workshop itself.
. The persistence of common strategies for talking about dreams and mind-alteration
in evidentiality languages despite the age of these ‘technologies’ suggests that there might
not be adaptation and change as a technology becomes more ingrained and more familiar.
Still, the fact that each speaker learns about these anew in his/her life might mean that the
technology never really gets old or too familiar.
. This element is traditionally referred to as an ‘enclitic’, though for various theoretical
reasons I deliberately avoid the designation ‘clitic’; see Joseph (2002a, b) for discussion of
this position.
. Sasha Aikhenvald brought this question up during general discussion at the workshop.
. Note the use of the term ‘commentative’ by Viacheslav Chirikba in Chapter 11, with
reference to one of the functions of evidentiality in Abkhaz.
References
Aksu-Koç, A. A., & Slobin, D. (1986). A psychological account of the development and use
of evidentials in Turkish. In W. Chafe & J. Nichols (Eds.), Evidentiality: The linguistic
coding of epistemology (pp. 159–167). Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Botne, R. (1995). The pronominal origin of an evidential. Diachronica, 12, 201–221.
Dobrin, L. (2001). The morphological status of Arapesh plurals. Paper presented at the
Annual Meeting of the Linguistic Society of America, Washington,D.C. (January 2001).
Foley, W. A. (1986). The Papuan languages of New Guinea. Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
Friedrich, J. (1952). Hethitisches Wörterbuch. Kurzgefasste kritische Sammlung der Deutungen
hethitischer Wörter. Heidelberg: C. Winter.
Gross, M. (1979). On the failure of generative grammar. Language, 55, 859–885.
Haspelmath, M. (1998). Does Grammaticalization Need Reanalysis? Studies in Language,
22(2), 315–351.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.20 (326)
 Brian D. Joseph
Hopper, P., & Traugott, E. (1993). Grammaticalization. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Jacobsen, W. (1986). The heterogeneity of evidentials in Makah. In W. Chafe & J. Nichols
(Eds.), Evidentiality: The linguistic coding of epistemology (pp. 159–167). Norwood, NJ:
Ablex.
Jakobson, R. (1957). Shifters, verbal categories, and the Russian verb. In Selected Writings, 2:
Word and Language (pp. 130–137). The Hague: Mouton.
Janda, R. D. (2001). Beyond ‘pathways’ and ‘unidirectionality’: On the discontinuity of
language transmissionand the counterability of grammaticalization.Language Sciences,
23, 265–340.
Janda, R. D., & Joseph, B. D. (1986). One Rule or Many? Sanskrit Reduplication as Frag-
mented Affixation. OSU Working Papers in Linguistics, 34, 84–107 (earlier version in
ESCOL ’85: 103–119).
Janda, R. D., & Joseph, B. D. (1999). The Modern Greek negator µη(ν)(–) as a morpholo-
gical constellation. In G. Babiniotis (Ed.), Greek linguistics: Proceedings of the 3rd
international conference on Greek linguistics (pp. 341–351). Athens: Elinika Gramata.
Janda, R. D., & Joseph, B. D. (2003). On Language, Change, and Language Change – Or, Of
History, Linguistics, and Historical Linguistics. In B. D. Joseph & R. D. Janda (Eds.),
Handbook of Historical Linguistics, Chapter 1. Oxford: Blackwell Publishers.
Joseph, B. D. (1981). Hittite iwar, wa(r) and Sanskrit iva. Zeitschrift für vergleichende
Sprachforschung, 95, 93–98.
Joseph, B. D. (2001). Is there such a thing as ‘grammaticalization’?. Language Sciences, 23,
163–186.
Joseph, B. D. (2002a). The word in Modern Greek. To appear in R. M. W. Dixon &
A. Y. Aikhenvald (Eds.), Word: A Cross-Linguistic Typology. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Joseph, B. D. (2002b). Defining ‘word’ in Modern Greek: A response to Philippaki-
Warburton and Spyropoulos 1999. In Yearbook of Morphology 2001.
Joseph, B. D. (2002c). Evidentiality in Proto-Indo-European? Paper presented at 14th annual
UCLA Indo-European Conference, Los Angeles, 2002.
Joseph, B. D., & Janda, R. D. (1988). The How and Why of Diachronic Morphologization
and Demorphologization. In M. Hammond & M. Noonan (Eds.), Theoretical Morphol-
ogy (pp. 193–210). NY: Academic Press.
Jurafsky, D. (1996). Universal tendencies in the semantics of the diminutive. In Language,
72, 533–578.
Lakoff, G. (1987). Women, Fire, and Dangerous Things: What Categories Reveal About the
Mind. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Matthews, P. (1997). The concise Oxford dictionary of linguistics. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Mushin, I. (2001). Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance. Narrative Retelling. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Newmeyer, F. (2001). Deconstructing grammaticalization. In Language Sciences, 23, 187–
229.
TSL[v.20020404] Prn:24/12/2002; 10:14 F: TSL5414.tex / p.21 (327)
Evidentials 
Rosch, E. (1975). Universals and cultural specifics in human categorization. In R. W. Brislin,
S. Bochner, & W. J. Lonner (Eds.), Cross-Cultural perspectives on learning, Chapter 7
(pp. 177–206). Beverly Hills: Sage.
Thomason, S. G., & Kaufman, T. (1988). Language contact, creolization, and genetic linguis-
tics. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Trask, R. L. (1993). A dictionary of grammatical terms in linguistics. London: Routledge.
Vasishth, S., & Joseph, B. D. (2002). Constellations, Polysemy, and Hindi ko. In Papers from
the 28th Annual Meeting of Berkeley Linguistics Society. Berkeley: Berkeley Linguistics
Society.
Index of authors
A
Aikhenvald, A. Y. 1–31, 34, 42, 56,
58 n. 1, 59 n. 7, 79, 97, 131–164,
172, 189–190, 207, 211–212, 245,
291, 309–311, 313–315, 319–321,
324 n. 9, 325 n. 18, 325 n. 21
Aksu-Koç, A. A. 284, 322
Ama, R. 51, 58 n. 1
Anderson, L. B. 23–24, 90, 300,
304 n. 2
Anshba, A. 247–248, 255, 259–262
Aoki, H. 2, 10–11, 72
Aristava, S. K. 244, 247, 249–250,
254, 256–257
Aronson, H. I. 190
Austin-Garrison, M. 96
B
Barnes, J. 6, 24, 26 n. 1, 134
Bari, S. 42, 45, 47–48, 58 n. 1, 59 n. 9
Bashir, E. 3–4, 12
Basso, K. H. 96
Begishe, K. 96
Bergsland, K. 301
Berthelsen, C. 304 n. 6
Bhat, D. N. S. 11
Boas, F. 1, 189, 303
Boeder, W. 245, 266
Botne, R. 316
Bray, D. 98 n. 2
Brendemoen, B. 288
Buchholz, O. 197, 203–205
Buckley, E. 121
Buder, A. 281
Bulut, C. 264, 266
Bunte, P. A. 162
Bybee, J. 24
C
Camargo, E. 54, 60 n. 15
Campbell, L. 21, 26, n. 1
Canayo, A. 42
Chafe, W. 2, 19, 27 n. 8
Chappell, H. 26 n. 1
Chapman, S. 180
Charachidzé, G. 267
Chelliah, S. L. 77 n. 2, 97 n. 1
Chirikba, V. A. 243–272, 325 n. 22
Chisholm, J. S. 96
Chitoran, I. 190
Chkadua, L. P’. 244, 249–250, 252,
254, 256–257, 264
Chung, S. 24
Comrie, B. 16, 26 n. 1, 58 n. 1, 226,
263, 274, 289
Csató, É. Á. 26 n. 1, 276, 288
Curnow, T. 324 n. 6, 325 n. 16
D
Dahl, Ö. 90
Dankoff, R. 189
Dawson, J. 98 n. 7
Day, D. 43, 48, 59 n. 11
de Haan, F. 25, 79
de Reuse, W. 79–100, 224, 299–300,
311, 313
Décsy, G. 4, 21
DeLancey, S. 2, 77 n. 3, 77 n. 5, 79,
81, 98 n. 3, 171, 229, 284, 288
Demiraj, S. 196, 196
Dendale, P. 18
Derbyshire, D. C. 7
Dickinson, C. 5, 7, 9, 14, 27 n. 4, 65,
86
 Index of authors
Dixon, R. M. W. 4–5, 7–8, 11, 19, 21,
56, 97, 165–187, 222, 237–241,
308, 321, 323, 324 n. 5, 325 n. 17
Dobrin, L. 312
Dobrushina, N. 3
Donabédian, A. 12, 245, 266
Dozon, A. 192
Dumézil, G. 267
E
Edgerton, F. E. 88
Egerod, S. 16, 75, 77 n. 2
Escobar, A. M. 263
F
Faust, N. 43
Fernandez-Vest, M. M. J. 19
Feuillet, J. 207
Fiedler, W. 197, 203–205
Fielder, G. E. 192, 206–207
Floyd, R. 4, 14, 23
Foley, W. A. 313
Fortescue, M. 97, 263, 291–306,
308–311, 317
Fox, B. 19
Frawley, W. 26 n. 2
Friedman, V. 18, 20, 21, 189–218,
324 n. 9, 324 n. 12, 324 n. 13,
325 n. 16
Friedrich, J. 321
Fucshico 39
G
Genko, A. N. 251
Givón, T. 19
Goddard, P. E. 79–80, 87
Gomez, G. G. 4
Gomez-Imbert, E. 23
Gordon, L. 21
Gralow, F. L. 7
Greenfeld, P. J. 96
Gronemeyer, C. 21
Gross, M. 314
Gruzdeva, E. Yu. 155
Guentchéva, Z. 2, 192, 212
H
Haile, B. 98 n. 6
Haller, F. 72 n. 2
Halpern, A. M. 106, 121–123
Hansson, I.-L. 76, 77 n. 2
Hardman, M. J. 4, 40
Hargreaves, D. 77 n. 2
Harris, A. C. 59 n. 3
Haspelmath, M. 4, 21, 59 n. 3, 317
Hewitt, B. G. 4, 244, 249–250, 256,
258, 263, 267
Hill, F. 88
Hoijer, H. 87
Hongladarom, K. 77 n. 2
Hopper, P. 317
Huber, B. 77 n. 2
I
Inuma, T. M. 44–46
J
Jacobsen, W. H. Jr. 1, 5, 10, 22, 189,
192, 305 n. 16, 313
Jacobson, S. 299–300
Jakobson, R. 27 n. 7, 189, 308,
323 n. 1
Janda, R. D. 311–312, 317, 325 n. 15
Jisma, K. 51
Jochelson, W. 22, 219
Johanson, L. 2–3, 8, 12, 21–22, 86,
212, 264, 273–290, 308, 312, 315
Joseph, B. D. 307–327
Jurafsky, D. 309
K
Karakoç, B. 287
Kaufman, T. 315
Kazazis, K. 189
Kendall, M. B. 162
Khiba, Z. K. 249
Index of authors 
Kibrik, A. E. 9, 245, 264
Kimenyi, A. 19
Kneeland, H. 43, 53–54, 60 n. 4,
60 n. 16
Koneski, B. 203
Konstantinov, A. 200
Kostov, K. 193
Kozintseva, N. 264, 266
Kramer, C. E. 205
Krejnovich, E. A. 219, 221, 223,
227–229, 231, 233, 234 n. 6
Kriareas, E. 190
Krle, R. 196
Kronning, H. 2, 18
Kumakhov, M. 264
Künnap, A. 4
Kuznetsova, A. I. 4
L
Laanest, A. 19
Lafe, E. 203, 205
Lakoff, G. 313
Lang, A. 4
LaPolla, R. J. 4, 17, 23, 63–78
Lauriault, E. 43, 48, 59 n. 11
Lazard, G. 18, 20, 27 n. 5, 264
Lehiste, I. 15, 26 n. 1
Liebe-Harkort, M.-L. 79
Loeweke, E. 6
Lomtatidze, K. V. 244, 251, 256–258
Loos, B. 55
Loos, E. 53, 55
Loriot, J. 43, 48, 59 n. 11
Lowe, I. 6
Lunt, H. 195, 204–205
M
MacDonald, L. 4, 21
Malone, T. 14, 20, 26 n. 1, 134
Marr, N. J. 247, 257
Maslova, E. 20, 26 n. 1, 37, 219–235,
324 n. 2
Matras, Y. 193
Matthews, P. H. 26 n. 3, 310
May, J. 6
McLendon, S. 5, 9, 16, 97, 101–129,
299, 323 n. 1
Meni, R. 49, 58 n. 1
Merlan, F. 18
Miller, W. 4
Mindak, J. 193
Minova-Ǵurkova, L. 195
Mithun, M. 121, 125
Mladenov, M. 191
Monserrat, R. 237–241
Montoliu, C. 213 n. 1
Morgan, W. 94
Mortensen, C. A. 4
Moshinsky, J. 121, 123, 126 n. 6
Mushin, I. 324 n. 2, 324 n. 3
Muysken, P. 89
N
Navarro, M. 55
Newmeyer, F. 317
Nichols, J. 2, 27 n. 8, 264, 268 n. 6
Nikolaeva, I. 4, 12, 219, 234 n. 5
Noël, D. 19
Noonan, M. 19
O
O’Connor, M. C. 121
Odden, D. 324 n. 7
Oswalt, R. 120–125
P
Palmer, F. R. 24
Parker, S. 55
Parks, D. 5, 7
Perrot, J. 4, 21, 27 n. 6
Perry, J. R. 263
Perry, R. J. 96
Pentheroudakis, J. 189
Plungian, V. A. 24
Poa, D. 77 n. 2
Potter, B. C. 79, 92, 98 n. 7
Prost, G. 54–55
 Index of authors
R
Rakhilina, E. 2
Ramírez, C. A. 55
Ramirez, H. 158–159, 163 n. 5
Reed, I. 296, 300
Rhodes, R. 59 n. 4
Rice, K. 79, 97 n. 1, 98 n. 3
Rombandeeva, E. I. 4
Roos, M. E. 285
Rosch, E. 97, 312
Rushforth, S. 96
S
Salzer, M. 180
Samilov, M. 213 n. 4
Samuels, D. 97 n. 1, 99 n. 10
Sani, Y. 47, 52, 58 n. 1
Schlichter, A. 5
Serebrjannikov, B. A. 20
Shakryl, K. S. 257
Shell, O. 43, 53, 59 n. 6
Sherzer, J. 22
Shipley, W. F. 4
Silver, S. 4
Sinuiri, N. A. 55
Skorik, P. J. 305 n. 11
Slobin, D. 284, 302, 322
Soi, R. 43
Spruit, A. 256
Squartini, M. 18, 26 n. 2
Stolz, T. 4
Strom, C. 5
Sumbatova, N. 245
Sun, T-S. J. 77 n. 2
T
Tatevosov, S. G. 3, 245
Tekin, T. 189
Tenišev, Ė. R. 285
Testelets, J. G. 245, 264
Thiesen, W. 10
Thomason, S. G. 315
Thurgood, G. 77 n. 2, 263
Timberlake, A. 24
Tournadre, N. 60 n. 17
Tournon, J. 51, 59 n. 8
Trask, R. L. 310
Traugott, E. 317
Tsitsipis, L. D. 134
U
Uplegger, F. J. 88, 90
Uslar, P. 244
Utas, B. 2
V
Vakhtin, N. 26 n. 1, 234 n. 2,
299–300
Valenzuela, P. M. 33–61, 318, 323
van den Berg, H. 4
van der Auwera, J. 24
van Wijk, N. 213 n. 9
Varol, M-C. 190
Vasishth, S. 312
Vihman, E. 121
Vocis, P. G. 211
W
Watters, D. E. 4, 17
Webster, A. K. 79
Weigand, G. 192
Werner, O. 96
West, B. 159
Whistler, K. W. 263
Whitehead, A. N. 304
Wierzbicka, A. 27 n. 8
Willett, T. 5, 12, 21, 24, 26 n. 2
Willie, M. 79
Wistrand, L. M. 43
Woodbury, A. C. 26 n. 1, 77 n. 2
X
Xoxa, D. 200–201
Y
Young, R. 94
Z
Zeisler, B. 77 n. 5
Index of languages and language families
A
Abkhaz (Northwest Caucasian) 4, 9,
11–13, 16–18, 20–21, 24, 86, 232,
243–272
see also Abzhywa, Ahchypsy,
Bzyp, Common Abkhaz,
Proto-Abkhaz, Sadz
Abkhaz-Abaza (Northwest Caucasian)
244, 257
see also Tapanta Abaza
Abkhazo-Adyghean (or Northwest
Caucasian) 243
Abzhywa, dialect of Abkhaz
(Northwest Caucasian) 243
Adyghe (Northwest Caucasian) 243,
264
Afghan Persian (Iranian,
Indo-European) 263
Ahchypsy, dialect of Abkhaz
(Northwest Caucasian) 243
Akha (Tibeto-Burman, Sino-Tibetan)
16, 75, 263
Alanic (Iranian, Indo-European)
266
Alaskan Yupik (Eskimo-Aleut) 296
Albanian (Indo-European) 14, 20,
189–218, 288, 320
see also South Albanian,
Standard Albanian
Aleut (Eskimo-Aleut) 301
Altay Turkic (Turkic) 278, 284
Amazonian linguistic area 23, 162
Anatolian 320
Apache (Athabaskan, North America)
91, 94, 96
see also Western Apache,
Chiricahua Apache, Cibecue
Western Apache, San Carlos
Western Apache, Tonto Western
Apache
Arapesh (Toricelli phylum, Papuan
area) 312
Arawá family (South America) 165,
180, 185
Arawak family (South America)
131, 158–159
see also North Arawak,
Proto-Arawak
Archi (Northeast Caucasian) 9
Armenian (Indo-European) 267
see also Eastern Armenian,
Western Armenian
Aromanian (Romance,
Indo-European) 191, 210, 212,
217
Aromanian dialects
see Aromanian
Arvanitika (Indo-European) 193,
209
Ashkharywa (central Abkhaz,
Northwest Caucasian) 243
Athabaskan (North America)
79–100, 313
see also Western Apache,
Northern Athabaskan family,
Pacific Coast Athabaskan,
Proto-Athabaskan, Southern
Athabaskan
Aymara (Jaqi, South America) 4, 40
Azerbaijanian (Turkic) 22, 277–278,
281, 288
 Index of languages and language families
B
Balkan Greek (Indo-European) 315
see also Greek
Balkan Romance (Indo-European)
190, 212
see also Romance
Balkan Slavic (Indo-European) 18,
189–218
see also Slavic
Balkan-Caucasian (linguistic area)
245
Balkans (linguistic area) 18, 20–21,
189–218, 245, 266, 288–289,
314–315, 320
Balto-Finnic (Finno-Ugric, Uralic) 4
Banawá, dialect of Madi (Arawá,
South America) 165, 176, 184
Baniwa (North Arawak, South
America) 133, 158
see also Kurripako
Bantu (Niger Congo) 313, 316
Barbacoan (South America) 7
Bashkir (Turkic) 280
Beaver (Athabaskan, North America)
80
Bora (Bora-Witoto, South America)
10
Boumaa Fijian (Austronesian) 19
Brazilian Portuguese (Romance,
Indo-Euoropean) 22
Bulgarian (Slavic, Indo-European)
190–194, 200–201, 206–207, 209,
218, 288–289
see also Northeast Bulgarian,
Standard Bulgarian
Byzantine Greek (Greek,
Indo-European) 266
Bzyp, dialect of Abkhaz (Northwest
Caucasian) 243, 258, 261
C
Caddoan (Caddoan) 5, 7
Caucasian (linguistic area) 21, 245,
264, 266
see also East Caucasian,
North Caucasian, Northeast
Caucasian, pan-Caucasian, South
Caucasian, West Caucasian
Central Alaskan Yupik
(Eskimo-Aleut) 300
Central Pomo (Pomoan, North
America) 24, 122–125
Central Siberian Yupik
(Eskimo-Aleut) 299–301
Central Tucanoan (Tucanoan, South
America) 5–6, 22
Chakobo (Panoan, South America)
53–56
Chipewyan (Athabaskan, North
America) 80
Chiricahua Apache (Athabaskan,
North America) 79
Chukchi (Chukotko-Kamchatkan,
North America) 300–301
Chukotko-Kamchatkan (North
America) 303
Chuvash (Turkic) 273, 280
Cibecue Western Apache
(Athabaskan, North America)
95
Circassian (Northwest Caucasian)
243, 266–267
see also Common Circassian,
Proto-Circassian
Coast Miwok (Miwokian, Utian,
North America) 126
Common Abkhaz (Northwest
Caucasian) 257–258
Common Circassian (Northwest
Caucasian) 264
Common Slavic (Indo-European)
194, 209
Crimean Tatar (Turkic) 266
D
Daco-Romanian (Romance,
Indo-European) 21, 190–191,
211, 217
Index of languages and language families 
Daghestanian (Northeast Caucasian)
245
Dardic (Indo-European) 3–4
Dení (Arawá, South America) 165
Desano (East Tucanoan, Tucanoan,
South America) 133
E
East Caucasian (or
Nakh-Daghestanian, Northeast
Caucasian) 243
East Macedonian (Slavic,
Indo-European) 192
East Tucanoan languages (Tucanoan,
South America) 5–6, 131, 133,
158
Eastern Armenian (Indo-European)
266
Eastern Finno-Ugric (Uralic) 288
Eastern Pomo (Pomoan, South
America) 5, 11, 13–18, 97,
101–129, 299
Enets (Samoyede, Uralic) 4
Enga (Engan family, Papuan area) 4
English (Germanic, Indo-European)
1–2, 18–19, 24, 76, 85, 87,
102–103, 109, 113, 162, 181, 183,
196, 200, 202, 206, 210–211, 246,
274–275, 302, 310, 313, 321
Eskimo (Eskimo-Aleut) 97,
291–306, 309
see also Proto-Eskimo
Eskimo languages (Eskimo-Aleut)
11, 291, 297, 302–303, 317
Eskimo-Aleut family 291
see also Proto-Eskimo-Aleut
Estonian (Balto-Finnic, Finno-Ugric,
Uralic) 4, 15, 19, 21
Eurasian
see pan-Eurasian
European languages 24, 95–96
F
Fasu (Papuan area) 6, 313
Finnish (Balto-Finnic, Finno-Ugric,
Uralic) 19
Finno-Ugric family 3, 20, 288
see also Eastern Finno-Ugric
French (Romance, Indo-European)
2, 18–19, 54, 97, 192, 211, 260,
314
Fu-yü (Turkic) 273
G
Georgian (South Caucasian)
244–245, 266–267, 288
German (Germanic, Indo-European)
211
Godoberi (Northeast Caucasian) 3
Greek (Indo-European) 189–190,
192, 209, 217, 288, 312, 315,
321–322
see also Balkan Greek,
Byzantine Greek
Greenlandic (Eskimo-Aleut) 97
see also West Greenlandic
H
Hare (Athabaskan, North America)
81
Hill Patwin (Wintun, North America)
263
Hindi (Indic, Indo-European) 312
Hittite (Anatolian, Indo-European)
320–321
Hixkaryana (Carib, South America)
7
Hungarian (Ugric, Finno-Ugric,
Uralic) 211, 288
Hunzib (Northeast Caucasian) 4
Hupa (Athabaskan, North America)
79
I
Indo-European 22, 189, 204, 288,
315, 320
see also Proto-Indo-European
Iranian (Indo-European) 3, 18, 266
 Index of languages and language families
Iranxe, dialect of Mỹky (isolate, South
America) 237,
see also Mỹky
Iroquoian language family 19
Italic (Indo-European) 320
J
Jamamadí, dialect of Madi (Arawá,
South America) 165, 176, 182,
184
Japanese 2, 10, 72, 211
Jaqaru (Aymara, South America) 40
Jaqi family (South America) 4
Jarawara, dialect of Madi (Arawá,
South America) 3, 7, 9, 11–13,
15–17, 20, 22, 71, 165–187, 222,
321, 323
Judezmo (Indo-European) 190–191,
217
K
Kabardian (Northwest Caucasian)
264
Kalasha (Dardic, Indo-European)
3–4, 12
Kalderaš, dialect of Romani (Indic,
Indo-European) 193
Kapanawa (Ucayli Panoan, South
America) 53, 55–56
Karachay-Balkar (Turkic) 266
Karaim (Turkic) 22, 288
Kartvelian (or South Caucasian)
243, 245, 264, 266–267
Kashaya Pomo (Pomoan, North
America) 24, 120, 122–125
Kashibo-Kakataibo (Panoan, South
America) 43, 53–54, 56
Kashinawa (Panoan, South America)
53–56
Kastoria (or Macedonian dialect
spoken in Greece,
Indo-European) 209
Kato (Athabaskan, North America)
79
Kazakh (Turkic) 278–281, 285–286
Khakas (Turkic) 278
Khalaj (Turkic) 273
Kham (Tibeto-Burman,
Sino-Tibetan) 4, 17
Khanty (Ugric, Finno-Ugric, Uralic)
4
see also Northern Khanty
Khowar (Dardic, Indo-European)
3–4, 12
Kinyarwanda (Bantu, Niger-Congo)
19
Kolyma Yukaghir (Yukaghir,
Paleo-Siberian isolate) 219,
223–224, 226–227, 230–231
Komi (Finno-Ugric, Uralic) 20
Korča Macedonian (or Korçë) 209
see also Macedonian
Korçë (or Macedonian dialect spoken
in Albania, Indo-European)
209
see also Macedonian
Koreguaje (Tucanoan, South
America) 7
Kostur Macedonian (or Kastoria)
209
Kulina (Arawá, South America) 165
Kurdish (Iranian, Indo-European)
288
Kurripako (North Arawak, South
America) 133
see also Baniwa
Kwakwala (Wakashan, North
America) 303
Kypchak branch (Turkic) 266
L
Ladakhi (Tibeto-Burman,
Sino-Tibetan) 11
Lak (Northeast Caucasian) 245
Latin (Romance, Indo-European)
313–314, 321
Laz (South Caucasian) 267
Lega (Bantu, Niger-Congo) 316
Index of languages and language families 
Lezgian (Lezgic, Northeast Caucasian)
4, 21
Lithuanian (Baltic, Indo-European)
21–22, 288, 315, 320
Livonian (Balto-Finnic, Finno-Ugric,
Uralic) 4, 19
Lovara, dialect of Romani (Indic,
Indo-European) 193
Luvian (Anatolian, Indo-European)
321
M
Macedonian (Slavic, Indo-European)
20, 191–196, 298–210, 212, 281,
288–289
see also East Macedonian,
Korča Macedonian, Kostur
Macedonian, Standard
Macedonian
Macedonian dialects (Slavic,
Indo-European) 191–192, 209
Madang-Adelbert Range (Papuan
area) 4
Madi (Arawá, South America) 165,
176, 180, 184
see also Madi
Maidu (Maidu, South America) 4
Makah (Wakashan, North America)
10, 313
Mangarayi (Australian area) 18
Mansi (Finno-Ugric, Uralic) 4
Mari (Finno-Ugric, Uralic) 20
Maricopa (Yuman) 21
Matses (Panoan, South America)
43, 53–54, 56–57
Medieval Slavic (Indo-European)
209
Megleno-Romanian (Romance,
Indo-European) 190–191, 212,
217
Megrelian (Kartvelian) 266–267
Mỹky (Brazilian language isolate) 3,
8–9, 11, 15–16, 237–241
see also Iranxe
N
Nakh-Daghestanian (or East
Caucasian) 243
Nambiquara (South America) 6
Native American languages 87, 189
Navajo (Athabaskan, North America)
79, 95–96
Nenets (Samoyede, Uralic) 4, 21
Nivkh (Paleosiberian isolate) 155
Noghay (Turkic) 278, 280, 286–287
North Arawak (Arawak, South
America) 22, 131, 133, 158
North Caucasian 264
Northeast Bulgarian (Slavic,
Indo-European) 209
Northeast Caucasian 3–4, 9
Northeastern Pomo (Pomoan, North
America) 121–122
Northern Athabaskan 79–80
Northern Embera family (South
America) 4, 8, 17
Northern Khanty (Finno-Ugric,
Uralic) 12
Northern Pomo (Pomoan, North
America) 5, 121–125
Northern Tajik (Iranian,
Indo-European) 288
O
Old East Turkic (Turkic) 283
Ossetic (Iranian, Indo-European)
see Proto-Ossetic
P
Palaic (Anatolian) 320
pan-Caucasian 245
pan-Eurasian 264
Panoan (South America) 33, 43,
53–58
see also Proto-Panoan
Papua 4, 6, 313
Papua New Guinea 211
Paumarí (Arawá, South America)
165, 180
 Index of languages and language families
Pawnee (Caddoan, North America)
5, 7
Persian (Iranian, Indo-European)
22, 263–264, 288
see also Afghan Persian
Piapoco (North Arawak, South
America) 133, 159
PIE
see Proto-Indo-European
Piratapuya (East Tucanoan,
Tucanoan, South America) 133
Pomo
see Central Pomo, Eastern
Pomo, Kashaya Pomo,
Northeastern Pomo, Northern
Pomo, Proto-Pomo,
Proto-Russian River Pomo,
Southeastern Pomo, Southern
Pomo
Pomoan (North America) 101,
121–126
Portuguese (Romance,
Indo-European) 19, 159,
161–162, 237
see also Brazilian Portuguese,
Standard Portuguese, Vaupés
Portuguese
Proto-Abkhaz 266
Proto-Arawak 131, 149
Proto-Athabaskan 94
Proto-Circassian 266
Proto-Eskimo 299–300
Proto-Eskimo-Aleut 300, 317
Proto-Indo-European 320–321
Proto-Ossetic 266
Proto-Panoan 43, 56
Proto-Pomo 123
Proto-Russian River Pomo 122
Q
Qiang (Qiangic, Tibeto-Burman,
Sino-Tibetan) 4, 7–8, 13–17,
19, 21–23, 63–78, 319
Qiangic (Tibeto-Burman,
Sino-Tibetan) 63
Quechua (Quechuan, South America)
4, 14, 23, 263
R
Retuarã (Tucanoan, South America)
5, 22, 315
Romance (Indo-European) 189
see also South Danubian
Romance
Romance family (Indo-European)
18
Romani (Indic, Indo-European)
193, 218, 315
see also Kalderaš, Lovara,
Vlah
Romanian (Romance,
Indo-European) 191, 217, 263,
320
Russian (Slavic, Indo-European) 2,
246
S
Sadz, dialect of Abkhaz (Northwest
Caucasian) 243
Salar (Turkic) 273, 287
Samoyede family (Uralic) 4, 11, 16
San Carlos Western Apache
(Athabaskan, North America)
95
Sanskrit (Indic, Indo-European)
210, 312, 321
Selkup (Samoyede, Uralic) 4
Serbian (Slavic, Indo-European)
191, 218
Serbo-Croatian (Slavic,
Indo-European) 192, 218
Shasta (Shastan, North America) 4
Shipibo-Konibo (Panoan, South
America) 3, 9–10, 13–20,
22–23, 33–61, 318, 323
Sino-Tibetan family 63
Slave (Athabaskan, North America)
79
Slavic (Indo-European) 218, 288,
320
Index of languages and language families 
see also Common Slavic,
medieval Slavic
Slavic dialects 218
Sliven, dialect of Romani
(Indo-European) 193
Sorowahá (Arawá, South America)
165, 178–180
South Albanian family 193
South American languages 4, 11,
165, 211
South Caucasian (or Kartvelian) 243
South Danubian Romance (or
Aromanian and
Megleno-Romanian,
Indo-European) 212
Southeastern Pomo (Pomoan, North
America) 122–125
Southeastern Tepehuan
(Uto-Aztecan) 5
Southern Amazonian 56
Southern Athabaskan (Athabaskan,
North America) 79
Southern Pomo (Pomoan, North
America) 122, 124–125
Spanish (Romance, Indo-European)
55, 112, 217, 263
Standard Albanian (Indo-European)
192, 196
Standard Bulgarian (Slavic,
Indo-European) 192, 209
Standard Macedonian (Slavic,
Indo-European) 192
Standard Portuguese (Romance,
Indo-European) 162
Svan (Kartvelian) 245, 266–267
T
Tadjik (Iranian, Indo-European) 20
see also Northern Tajik
Tadjik (Iranian, Indo-European)
288
Tapanta Abaza (Northwest Caucasian)
245–246, 257
see also Abkhaz-Abaza
Tariana (North Arawak, South
America) 5–8, 12–24, 42, 79,
131–164, 309–310, 313, 319, 321
Tatar (Turkic) 278, 280
Tauya (Madang-Adelbert Range
Subphylum, Papuan area) 4, 21
Tibetan, 81, 288
Tibeto-Burman family (Sino-Tibetan)
4, 63, 211, 263
Tosk (Albanian, Indo-European)
193
Tsafiki (Barbacoan) 5, 7, 9, 14–15,
65, 86
Tsakhur (Northeast Caucasian) 245,
264
Tucano (East Tucanoan, Tucanoan,
South America) 6, 13–14, 18,
24, 131, 133–135, 158–159, 161
Tucanoan (South America) 5, 22,
149
see also Central Tucanoan,
East Tucanoan
Tundra Yukaghir (or Northern
Yukaghir, Paleosiberian isolate)
219, 221, 223, 226, 230–232, 234
Turkic languages 3, 12–13, 16–18,
22, 86, 189, 210, 212, 266,
273–290, 315
Turkish (western subgroup of
Southwestern Turkic, Turkic)
19, 81, 189–191, 200–201,
209–210, 281, 266–267, 274–278,
281–288, 310, 312, 315
Turkmen (Southwestern Turkic,
Turkic) 278–279, 283
Tuyuca (Tucanoan, South America)
6, 14, 20, 24
U
Ubykh (Northwest Caucasian) 243,
267
Ugric family (Uralic) 4
Ukranian (Slavic, Indo-European)
22
Uto-Aztecan 5
 Index of languages and language families
Uyghur (Turkic) 274, 279–280,
283–287
Uzbek (Turkic) 278–280, 283, 288
V
Vaupés Portuguese (Romance,
Indo-European) 162
Vedic Sanskrit (Indic, Indo-European)
321
see also Sanskrit
Vlah (Indic, Indo-European)
191–193, 209–210, 217, 320,
see also Romani
W
Wakashan (North America) 10–11,
303
Wanano (East Tucanoan, Tucanoan,
South America) 133
Wariapano (Panoan, South America)
53, 55–56
Washo (Washo, North America) 5,
192
West Caucasian 243–244, 266–267
West Greenlandic (Eskimo-Aleut)
10–11, 263, 291–306, 309, 311
Western Apache (Athabaskan, North
America) 6–8, 10, 12, 15–17,
20–21, 79–100, 224, 299, 311, 313
Western Armenian (Armenian,
Indo-European) 12, 288
Wintu (Wintun, North America) 5
Wintun family (North America) 263
X
Xamatauteri (Yanomami, South
America) 5
Y
Yakut (Turkic) 219, 281
Yanam (Yanomami, South America)
4
Yellow Uyghur (Turkic) 273, 285,
288
Yucuna (North Arawak, South
America) 22
Yukaghir (Paleosiberian isolate)
219–235
see also Kolyma Yukaghir,
Tundra Yukaghir
Yupik
see Alaskan Yupik, Central
Alaskan Yupik, Central Siberian
Yupik
Yuman family 21
Index of subjects
A
absolutive 33, 125, 258
acquisition of evidentials 320, 322
addressee 17, 73, 134, 144–145, 155,
201–202, 228, 286
admirative 14, 133, 152, 154,
191–193, 196–197, 199–200, 212
affirmative clauses 8, 117, 134–143,
146–147, 151, 163
agglutinative 33, 63, 101, 166
agreement 19, 33, 123–124, 131,
166–167, 182, 185, 193, 194,
221–222
aorist 191, 194, 197, 206–207, 210,
212, 244, 250, 260–262, 265, 288,
321
apodosis 206
apprehensive 8, 131–133, 152, 155,
163
asserted 84, 88, 91, 93–94, 113, 286,
321
assertive 151, 154
assumed evidential 5–6, 14, 131
see also inferred evidential
assumed knowledge 5–6, 8, 14, 17,
54, 67, 71, 73, 89, 144–145, 161,
196, 198, 228, 233, 246, 248, 286
assumption 17, 67, 71, 73, 89,
144–145, 161, 198–199, 228, 248,
286
assumptive 263
auditive 21
auditory 3, 5, 19, 124, 223, 287, 292
see also evidence – nonvisual
awareness 85–87, 159, 175, 211,
248–249, 274, 284–285, 314
B
belief, degree of 19
see also disbelief, speaker’s
commitment to truth of
statement
borrowing 112, 209, 265–266, 307,
314–315, 322
C
certainty
see epistemic modality
circumstantial evidence 6, 11, 101,
105, 300
lack of circumstantial evidence
54
cognition 14, 19, 22, 314
combining evidentials 9, 34–35, 37,
40, 44, 46–49, 57, 65, 76, 94, 241,
275
see also double marking of
source
commands 8–9, 17, 96, 114, 131,
146, 179, 202–203, 238, 295, 297
see also imperative
commentative 86, 232, 246–248
complement clause 19, 21, 40, 89,
143, 155, 168, 173, 175, 296
complementizer 2, 19, 21
concessive 120
conditional 2, 5, 11, 18, 24, 75, 90,
114, 121, 132, 152, 154, 190, 192,
205–206, 211, 227, 230, 244,
249–253, 256–258, 263, 286
conditional-potential 152
confirmative 190, 192, 194–196,
198–199, 202, 205–206, 208, 210,
212, 289
 Index of subjects
continuative 63–64, 106, 114–115,
184–186, 226–227
continuum 20, 191, 212, 218, 245
control 3, 13–15, 150, 282–283
lack of control 16, 110, 136,
138–139, 175, 251–252,
282–283, 285
copula 10, 35, 72, 179, 184–185,
253, 256, 263, 276, 278–281, 286,
288, 312
counterfactual clause 90, 230
cultural attitudes 22–23, 25, 50–52,
159–163, 210–211, 301–302
cultural practices/knowledge 18, 48,
50, 23, 26, 50, 87, 93, 96, 118,
139, 141, 159, 161, 319
cultural stereotypes 14, 22, 26
culturally inappropriate 17, 93–94,
145, 161
D
declarative 9, 33–35, 39, 43, 47, 49,
54–55, 132, 158, 167, 172–175,
179, 185, 237–238, 240, 249, 254,
318
declarative-assertive 151, 154
deferred realization 12, 17, 84–88,
93, 95–97, 224
dependent clause 34–35, 114,
119–120, 143, 173–175, 179,
185–186, 297
dependent-marking 131, 133
desiderative 114–115, 121
diffusion 21–22, 124, 133, 149,
314–315
direct evidence 3–6, 13–14, 23–24,
37, 53–57, 64, 69, 81, 101–102,
106–109, 113, 135–136, 145, 223,
252, 264, 275–276
direct evidential 4–5, 13, 16, 18,
35–37, 43, 49–50, 56–58, 72,
101–102, 106–109, 113, 115–118,
121, 124–125, 220–223, 225–226,
228–233, 265
see also visual evidential
disbelief 37, 68, 197, 199, 208, 255
distancing 12, 18, 112–113, 136,
204–206, 210, 251–252, 255, 258,
261-262, 264–265, 277, 283,
298–299, 302, 308–309, 321, 323
double marking of evidentiality
8–10, 55, 174, 302, 323
double marking of tense 148–149
dreams 22, 50, 58, 70, 112, 136, 160,
168, 210–211, 248, 251, 287,
319–320
dubitative 56, 88, 98, 159, 197,
199–201, 203, 206–207, 273, 283
E
epistemic markers 35, 57, 84, 94,
132, 267, 297, 299–300, 302,
epistemic meaning/extension 2,
11–12, 13–16, 20, 23–24, 72,
82–83, 88, 98 n. 3, 152, 161,
227–228, 231, 283, 292–293, 300
epistemic modality 1, 13–14, 20, 24,
33, 91–92, 97, 133, 154,
198–199, 273, 300, 302–304,
308
certainty 12–13, 35, 54–57, 66,
69, 72, 76, 83, 86, 88, 138,
154, 195, 201–202, 228, 283,
308
uncertainty 13–15, 18–19, 44,
46, 57, 66, 69–72, 111, 141,
151–152, 154, 156, 172–173,
206, 228, 237–238, 246, 255,
263, 283
evidence
see assumed knowledge,
circumstantial evidence, direct
evidence, general knowledge,
hearsay evidence, indirect
evidence, indirect speech,
inferred knowledge, nonvisual
evidence, personal knowledge,
physical evidence, reported
evidence, visual evidence
evidentiality and aspect
Index of subjects 
see continuative, extentive,
habitual, imperfect,
intraterminal, perfect,
postterminal, prospective,
resultative
evidentiality and belief
see belief, disbelief
evidentiality and culture
see cultural attitudes,
cultural practices/knowledge,
cultural stereotypes, culturally
inappropriate
evidentiality and mood
see apprehensive, assertive,
conditional, declarative,
frustrative, hypothetical, mood
system, non-declarative, optative,
presumptive, probabilitive,
purposive, subjunctive
evidentiality and negation
see negation
evidentiality and person
see first person, non-first person
evidentiality and politeness
see politeness
evidentiality and tense
see future tense, non-future
tense, past tense, perfect tense,
present tense, tense system,
tense-aspect, tense-evidentiality,
tense-mood, double marking of
tense
evidentiality in questions
see questions
evidentiality systems
A1 3, 8–9, 12, 16, 163, 190–191,
212, 222, 233–234
A2 4, 9, 12, 16, 190–192,
211–222, 245
A3 4, 8–9, 11–12, 17, 146, 163
B1 4, 8, 64
B2 5, 8, 146, 163
B3 5
C1 5, 8, 135, 146, 163
C2 5, 9
C3 5
C4 5–6
two-term system 1–4, 13–14,
16, 24, 146, 172, 245,
280–282
two systems in one language
8–10, 280
three-term system 4–5, 13–14,
64, 76, 146, 155, 234, 246,
279–280
four-term system 5–6, 9, 14–15,
146, 239
multi-term system 1, 6, 13–15,
24, 80, 135, 146, 167, 176,
313
evidentials and commands
see commands
evidentials and imperatives
see imperative
evidentials
see assumed evidential,
assumptive, direct evidential,
hearsay evidential, indirect
evidential, indirectivity, inferred
evidential, nonvisual evidential,
physical inferential,
reportative, reported evidential,
scattered coding, visual evidential
exclamatory 143, 300
extentive 112, 121
eyewitness evidential
see direct evidential, visual
evidential
eyewitness
see direct evidence, visual
evidence
F
first person 13, 16, 24, 68–69, 91, 93,
103, 105, 108, 113, 134, 149–151,
157–158, 175–176, 221–222, 229,
234, 251–253, 285, 301
formal markedness 5, 7–8, 13, 159,
260, 275–276, 303
frustrative 132, 151, 154, 238
 Index of subjects
functional markedness 7–8, 166,
175, 275–276
future events 35, 37, 43, 70, 121,
148, 157, 175, 225, 227, 234, 237,
245, 251, 258, 263–265
future tense 16, 21, 92, 131, 148,
174, 177, 186, 190–191, 219–220,
225–227, 245, 249–251, 256–258,
263–264, 316
G
gender 6, 19, 110, 132, 165–168,
177, 182, 186, 193–194, 244, 262,
313
general knowledge 5, 13–14, 18, 35,
50, 54, 56, 66, 124, 135–137, 139,
141–142, 150–151, 155, 161, 321
H
habitual action 35, 67, 179, 227, 293
habitual marker 132, 179, 221, 226,
239
head-marking 131, 165
hearsay evidence 4–5, 7, 12, 15, 19,
70, 73, 222, 227, 231, 244, 246,
259, 262, 274–275, 302
hearsay evidential 2, 4–5, 10–11, 15,
19, 21, 52, 64–65, 70–73,
75–76, 101, 105–109, 111,
113, 116–121, 123–124
second degree hearsay 42–43
hypothetical 90–91, 95, 167, 174,
177, 198–199, 220, 227–228
I
imperative 11, 34–35, 42, 75, 88–89,
120–121, 132, 143, 146, 163, 167,
175, 202–203, 221, 228, 237–238,
240, 252, 254, 257, 286, 295
see also commands
imperfect 95, 124, 191, 194,
196–197, 205–207, 210, 212, 221,
226–227, 244, 250, 276–277, 279
indirect evidence 1, 3, 12, 14, 18, 44,
86, 145, 219, 246, 248, 259, 265,
275
indirect evidential 167
indirect speech 40, 295–297
see also reported evidence
indirectivity 3, 12–13, 16–17, 22, 25,
86, 274–289, 308, 312
inferential 5–21, 37, 44–7, 56, 58,
64–75, 80–83, 86, 88, 93–97,
101–125, 220–234, 244–258,
260–267, 274–275, 278–282,
285, 291, 299, 308
inferential/judgmental 291
inferential/perceptive 275
inferential/probability 257
inferential/mirative 64, 68,
90–91, 83, 86, 93, 95, 97
non-mirative/inferential 21,
80–81, 95
inferred evidential 4–11, 14–18,
20–21, 23, 37, 44–47, 56–58, 64,
66–71, 73–75, 80–83, 86, 88,
93–97, 101–102, 104–105, 109,
111–113, 115–116, 118–121,
124–125, 131, 133, 135–136,
139–148, 150–154, 157–159,
161–162, 220–234, 240–241,
244–258, 260–267, 274–275,
278–281, 285, 292–293, 299
inferred knowledge 1, 3–6, 11, 14,
17, 23, 34, 53–54, 57, 64–65,
67–69, 73–75, 81–82, 86, 91, 101,
104–105, 111, 113, 117, 135,
139–140, 142–143, 148, 150–154,
157, 159, 69, 190, 192, 197–199,
219–220, 222–224, 227, 233, 244,
246–248, 258, 263, 274–277, 280,
282, 291–293, 299–300, 309, 313
initiotransformative 288
intonation 41, 89, 143, 146, 156
intraterminal 276–277, 279–281,
283
Index of subjects 
irrealis 18, 24, 90–91, 95–96, 114,
120–121, 167, 174, 176–177, 179,
220, 227, 237–238, 265
L
lexical reinforcement of evidentiality
13, 96, 137, 157, 246, 249
lie 17, 41, 139, 143, 157
see also speaker’s
commitment to truth of
statement, belief
M
markedness
see formal markedness,
functional markedness,
zero-marking of evidentiality
médiatif
see mediative
mediative 3, 54, 56
mediativity
see medative
mirative 2, 12, 14–16, 48–49, 65,
67–68, 81, 83, 86, 89, 95–97, 165,
171–172, 174, 185, 189, 199–201,
203, 206, 229, 233–234, 238, 240,
246, 248–249, 252, 284–285, 294,
296, 299
mirative/inferential
see inferential
mirativity
see mirative
modality 2, 11, 15–16, 19–20, 24,
34, 75, 91–92, 133, 151–152, 154,
156, 179, 186, 199, 205–206, 227,
292, 299–304, 308
see also epistemic modality
mood system 8, 158
morphologically unmarked
see zero-marking of evidentiality
multiple sources of evidence
142–143
N
negation 11, 16, 75–76, 79, 94,
116–118, 136, 151, 175–176,
203–204, 237–241, 251, 254, 286,
293, 298
nonconfirmative 204–206, 208–210
see also confirmative
non-declarative 18, 24
non-eyewitness evidential 80, 82,
165, 167–168, 170–172, 185–186
non-first person 37, 69, 93, 103,
113, 134, 149–151, 251, 285
non-firsthand evidence
see reported evidence,
hearsay, indirect evidence
non-future tense 131, 226–228, 240
non-mirative inferential
see inferential
nonvisual evidence 5–6, 13–16, 22,
37, 65, 157, 239
nonvisual evidential 5–10, 13–14,
16–17, 20–21, 65, 80, 95,
101–104, 109, 113, 115–116, 118,
121, 131–133, 135–136, 137–155,
157–161, 237–241
O
optative 202–203, 252, 286
P
past deferred realization
see deferred realization
past tense 3, 7, 9, 15, 18, 20, 90–92,
94, 96, 133, 147, 160, 165,
167–178, 183–186, 193, 206, 209,
211–212, 240, 253, 257, 285, 300,
321
perceptive 275, 278–282
perfect 2, 15–16, 18, 20, 63, 67, 72,
95, 124–125, 132, 158, 189–194,
196–197, 202, 205–207, 209–210,
212, 226, 234, 238, 244, 262–264,
267, 277–279, 281–282, 288, 291,
298, 300, 316
 Index of subjects
person
see first person, non-first person
personal knowledge 4, 8, 24, 35, 43,
54, 56, 65, 108–109, 193,
201–202, 233, 275
see also direct evidence
shamanic knowledge 22
supernatural occurrences 167
physical evidence 5–6, 9, 65
see also direct evidence,
indirect evidence
physical inferential 21, 80, 82, 95
politeness 17, 48, 88–89, 114,
120–121, 286
polysynthetic languages 11, 131,
243, 303
postterminal 16, 18, 276–284,
287–288
present tense 20, 133, 136, 140,
143–144, 147–148, 151, 153–157,
157–159, 191–203, 206, 226,
237–238, 240, 249–250, 276, 294
presumptive 21, 190–191, 209, 211,
263, 283
probabilitive 21, 191, 211
probability 2, 13–14, 16, 19, 44, 55,
57, 133, 152, 267, 292–293,
298–300, 308
prospective 63–65, 220–221, 225,
276, 279, 281
protasis 90, 206
purposive 8, 131–132, 152, 155–156,
163, 257
Q
questions 9, 16–17, 49, 55, 73, 83,
88–89, 108–109, 114–116,
144–147, 168, 179, 183–186,
201–202, 228, 286, 297
content 17, 48, 143–144,
174–175, 185
echo 254–255
indirect 295, 297
polar 175, 183, 186
pseudo-questions 146
question markers 40, 72–73, 88,
114–115, 119, 174, 183
response to 73, 144–147
rhetorical 49, 73–74, 88–89,
183–184, 286–287
yes-no 17, 88–89, 143
R
realis 24, 114–115, 120–121, 220,
222, 225–226, 228, 265
reliability 2, 37, 41, 57, 140, 160,
231, 280
unreliability 23, 161, 199, 295
reportative 6, 22, 26, 35, 37–44,
46–47, 49–58, 80, 101, 245, 258,
260–162, 265, 274, 291
reported evidence 1, 3–6, 9, 12,
18–19, 21, 23, 37–43, 57, 65, 67,
71, 86, 101–102, 135, 140, 148,
157, 161–162, 190, 192, 194,
206–207, 211, 222, 245, 247, 258,
260, 275–276, 278–282, 292,
294–295, 298–299, 301–302, 309
reported evidential 1, 4–6, 8–12,
14–18, 21, 23–24, 37–43, 52, 64,
131, 133, 135–137, 140–142,
146–149, 151, 158–162, 165, 167,
173–174, 177–180, 183, 185–186,
190, 196–199, 203, 206, 240–241,
246–247, 259, 265, 274–275, 278,
283, 285, 297, 316
resultative 18, 20, 194, 203–204,
298–301
S
scattered coding 10–11, 25, 97, 276,
293, 302, 311, 313
scattered coding of evidentiality
10–11, 25, 97, 276, 291–305, 311,
313
shaman
see sorcery
sorcery 22–23, 42, 51, 138, 160, 162,
167, 207
Index of subjects 
speaker’s commitment to truth of
statement 12, 190, 194, 231,
255, 265, 283, 321
see also lie, belief
speculation 33, 35, 49, 57, 140, 159,
198–199, 246
speculative 47–49, 240–241, 263,
323
subjunctive 114, 120–121, 190, 199,
202–203, 211, 252, 257, 263
supernatural
see sorcery
surprise 2, 5, 12, 24, 48, 54, 68, 81,
83, 86, 89, 133, 152, 171–172,
190, 192, 195, 197, 199, 201, 206,
238, 246, 248–249, 252, 264, 284,
294
see also mirative
T
tense 81, 143, 147–149, 154, 191,
198, 201, 207, 225, 243–244, 251,
260, 285, 300
tense system 8, 249–250
tense-aspect 1–2, 15, 34, 57, 266,
286
tense-evidentiality 84, 131–134, 143,
151–153, 156, 167–177
tense-mood 91–92, 167–177, 179,
185, 220, 303
traditional knowledge
see cultural practices/knowledge
U
uncertainty
see epistemic modality
unintentional action 13, 66–67, 70,
76, 136, 138–139, 150, 229,
253–254
unmarked for evidentiality 38,
65–66, 70, 151, 159, 175, 190,
192, 194–196, 206, 209, 220, 224,
234, 265, 275–276, 280–283, 289
see also zero-marking of
evidentiality
V
verificational 1, 7
visual evidence 3–7, 9, 12–33, 16, 23,
37, 65–67, 69, 73, 75, 84, 91, 93,
107, 109, 140, 142–145, 151–154,
157, 159–160, 162, 222, 227, 239,
275–276, 282, 287, 292, 232
visual evidential 4–9, 13–14, 16,
22–23, 64–66, 69–70, 73, 75–76,
93, 97, 107, 124–125, 131–139,
141–162, 237–241
Z
zero-marking of evidentiality 7–8,
57, 66, 165, 239, 246, 302
see also unmarked for
evidentiality
In the series TYPOLOGICAL STUDIES IN LANGUAGE (TSL) the following titles have
been published thus far:
1. HOPPER, Paul J. (ed.): Tense-Aspect: Between semantics & pragmatics. 1982.
2. HAIMAN, John & Pamela MUNRO (eds): Switch Reference and Universal Grammar.
Proceedings of a symposium on switch reference and universal grammar, Winnipeg, May
1981. 1983.
3. GIVÓN, T.: Topic Continuity in Discourse. A quantitative cross-language study. 1983.
4. CHISHOLM, William, Louis T. MILIC & John A.C. GREPPIN (eds): Interrogativity: A
colloquium on the grammar, typology and pragmatics of questions in seven diverse lan-
guages, Cleveland, Ohio, October 5th 1981-May 3rd 1982. 1984.
5. RUTHERFORD, William E. (ed.): Language Universals and Second Language Acquisi-
tion. 1984 (2nd ed. 1987).
6. HAIMAN, John (Ed.): Iconicity in Syntax. Proceedings of a symposium on iconicity in
syntax, Stanford, June 24-26, 1983. 1985.
7. CRAIG, Colette (ed.): Noun Classes and Categorization. Proceedings of a symposium on
categorization and noun classification, Eugene, Oregon, October 1983. 1986.
8. SLOBIN, Dan I. & Karl ZIMMER (eds): Studies in Turkish Linguistics. 1986.
9. BYBEE, Joan L.: Morphology. A Study of the Relation between Meaning and Form. 1985.
10. RANSOM, Evelyn: Complementation: its Meaning and Forms. 1986.
11. TOMLIN, Russel S.: Coherence and Grounding in Discourse. Outcome of a Symposium,
Eugene, Oregon, June 1984. 1987.
12. NEDJALKOV, Vladimir (ed.): Typology of Resultative Constructions. Translated from the
original Russian edition (1983). English translation edited by Bernard Comrie. 1988.
14. HINDS, John, Shoichi IWASAKI & Senko K. MAYNARD (eds): Perspectives on
Topicalization. The case of Japanese WA. 1987.
15. AUSTIN, Peter (ed.): Complex Sentence Constructions in Australian Languages. 1988.
16. SHIBATANI, Masayoshi (ed.): Passive and Voice. 1988.
17. HAMMOND, Michael, Edith A. MORAVCSIK and Jessica WIRTH (eds): Studies in
Syntactic Typology. 1988.
18. HAIMAN, John & Sandra A. THOMPSON (eds): Clause Combining in Grammar and
Discourse. 1988.
19. TRAUGOTT, Elizabeth C. and Bernd HEINE (eds): Approaches to Grammaticalization,
2 volumes (set) 1991
20. CROFT, William, Suzanne KEMMER and Keith DENNING (eds): Studies in Typology
and Diachrony. Papers presented to Joseph H. Greenberg on his 75th birthday. 1990.
21. DOWNING, Pamela, Susan D. LIMA and Michael NOONAN (eds): The Linguistics of
Literacy. 1992.
22. PAYNE, Doris (ed.): Pragmatics of Word Order Flexibility. 1992.
23. KEMMER, Suzanne: The Middle Voice. 1993.
24. PERKINS, Revere D.: Deixis, Grammar, and Culture. 1992.
25. SVOROU, Soteria: The Grammar of Space. 1994.
26. LORD, Carol: Historical Change in Serial Verb Constructions. 1993.
27. FOX, Barbara and Paul J. Hopper (eds): Voice: Form and Function. 1994.
28. GIVÓN, T. (ed.) : Voice and Inversion. 1994.
29. KAHREL, Peter and René van den BERG (eds): Typological Studies in Negation. 1994.
30. DOWNING, Pamela and Michael NOONAN: Word Order in Discourse. 1995.
31. GERNSBACHER, M. A. and T. GIVÓN (eds): Coherence in Spontaneous Text. 1995.
32. BYBEE, Joan and Suzanne FLEISCHMAN (eds): Modality in Grammar and Discourse.
1995.
33. FOX, Barbara (ed.): Studies in Anaphora. 1996.
34. GIVÓN, T. (ed.): Conversation. Cognitive, communicative and social perspectives. 1997.
35. GIVÓN, T. (ed.): Grammatical Relations. A functionalist perspective. 1997.
36. NEWMAN, John (ed.): The Linguistics of Giving. 1998.
37. RAMAT, Anna Giacalone and Paul J. HOPPER (eds): The Limits of Grammaticalization.
1998.
38. SIEWIERSKA, Anna and Jae Jung SONG (eds): Case, Typology and Grammar. In honor
of Barry J. Blake. 1998.
39. PAYNE, Doris L. and Immanuel BARSHI (eds.): External Possession. 1999.
40. FRAJZYNGIER, Zygmunt and Traci S. CURL (eds.): Reflexives. Forms and functions.
2000.
41. FRAJZYNGIER, Zygmunt and Traci S. CURL (eds): Reciprocals. Forms and functions.
2000.
42. DIESSEL, Holger: Demonstratives. Form, function and grammaticalization. 1999.
43. GILDEA, Spike (ed.): Reconstructing Grammar. Comparative Linguistics and Gram-
maticalization. 2000.
44. VOELTZ, F.K. Erhard and Christa KILIAN-HATZ (eds.): Ideophones. 2001.
45. BYBEE, Joan and Paul HOPPER (eds.): Frequency and the Emergence of Linguistic
Structure. 2001.
46. AIKHENVALD, Alexandra Y., R.M.W. DIXON and Masayuki ONISHI (eds.): Non-
canonical Marking of Subjects and Objects. 2001.
47. BARON, Irene, Michael HERSLUND and Finn SORENSEN (eds.): Dimensions of Pos-
session. 2001.
48. SHIBATANI, Masayoshi (ed.): The Grammar of Causation and Interpersonal Manipula-
tion. 2002.
49. WISCHER, Ilse and Gabriele DIEWALD (eds.): New Reflections on Grammaticalization.
2002.
50. FEIGENBAUM, Susanne and Dennis KURZON (eds.): Prepositions in their Syntactic,
Semantic and Pragmatic Context. 2002.
51. NEWMAN, John (ed.): The Linguistics of Sitting, Standing and Lying. 2002.
52. GÜLDEMANN, Tom and Manfred von RONCADOR (eds.): Reported Discourse. A
meeting ground for different linguistic domains. 2002.
53. GIVÓN, T. and Bertram MALLE (eds.): The Evolution of Language from Pre-language.
2002.
54. AIKHENVALD, Alexandra Y. and R.M.W. DIXON (eds.): Studies in Evidentiality. 2003.
