additional intonational characteristics that set OTT intensiﬁcation apart from ordinary
intensiﬁcation (Zwicky, 2006), but there are still clear cues from the syntax, lexical item choice,
punctuation and typeface style used, and the surrounding utterances that make OTT intensiﬁcation
recognizable in written discourse.
2.2. Evidence for distinct items in set
In order to obviate hypotheses that any of the four OTT intensiﬁers in the present study are
merely dialectal variants of one another, the intrasubject collection provides evidence of all 4
intensiﬁers used by a single speaker, Rachel Maddow (msnbc.com). Examples from the
intrasubject collection are provided in (5–8), documenting use of each of the intensiﬁers.
(5) [to Keith Obermann] There’s also a very cute [photo] of you.
You’re super-excited to be there.
(6) AIG wouldn’t have become too big to fail if they hadn’t become a big, hybrid,
complicated uber ﬁnancial everything company . . .
(7) [on George W. Bush] Liberating 50 million people is so not gonna be the ﬁrst thing
people say about you.
(8) Sean Connery was totally the best James Bond.
3. SYNTAX OF OTT CONSTRUCTIONS: SURPASSING SYNTACTIC LIMITS
Constructions using OTT intensiﬁcation in the syntactic domain place the intensiﬁer in a
syntactic environment usually unavailable to that intensiﬁer. Surpassing the syntactic limits of
the intensiﬁer serves to mark subjectivity, calling attention to a speaker’s particular point of
view regarding the intensiﬁcation target. Two of the four intensiﬁers in the present study, so and
totally, were found in such syntactic environments. The use of so with nontraditional targets has
been referred to as GenX so (Zwicky, 2006), because its use was ﬁrst documented in the speech
of GenXers. So and totally appear in noun phrase, verb phrase, negative, and superlative
contexts that expand the boundaries of the set of environments in which these intensiﬁers are
usually used.
It should be noted that OTT intensiﬁcation only obtains when some linguistic limit is
surpassed. Thus, rather than subjectivity being a property of intensiﬁers in general, or of any
particular intensiﬁer, it is an outcome of OTT intensiﬁcation. Although it has been proposed
(Athanasiadou, 2007) that all intensiﬁers express some degree of subjectivity, the focus here is the
narrower characterization of subjectivity marking in which it functions as a discourse cue. Thus,
so and totally are not considered particular indicators of subjectivity when they are used in their
ordinary contexts (e.g., The window is totally open.).
Super, uber, so, and totally 19
3.1. Noun phrase targets
So and totally are found in OTT intensiﬁcation contexts with noun phrase targets which expand
the syntactic privilege of occurrence for these two intensiﬁers. New noun phrase environments for
so and totally include targets such as deﬁnite noun phrases, proper nouns, and noun phrase
clauses. OTT intensiﬁcation environments for so and totally with noun phrase targets are
illustrated in (9–12):
(9) Man, this is *so* the place to come for Friday lunch.
(10) Luigi is totally the bomb.
(11) This place is so San Francisco to me
(12) They also can come to your house to do auto work which is so what I should have
done.
The targets of the intensiﬁers in (9–10) are the deﬁnite noun phrases (i.e., target in (9): the
place to come for Friday lunch; target in (10): the bomb). The asterisks in (9) give a further cue to
the subjectivity marking in the discourse; they provide a written version of the accent and
intonation in a spoken sentence. Sentences (11–12) show the intensiﬁers with proper noun
(San Francisco) and noun phrase clause (what I should have done) targets, respectively. The
syntactic novelty of these constructions with so and totally signals the presentation of speakers’
attitudes toward their targets.
3.2. Verb phrase targets
Intensiﬁers so and totally appear in contexts with verb phrase targets, as illustrated in (13–15)
below:
(13) She so helped me out with my ﬂower arrangement for this lady I’ve been dating for 3
months.
(14) It only took about ten minutes, but she totally could have charged us for that.
(15) Creative International is the best! I am so getting my wedding cake done by them.
Expanding the syntactic contexts for intensiﬁers so and totally to verb phrases in (13–15)
allows OTT intensiﬁcation to signal the exceptional strength of each speaker’s endorsement in
the review. The surrounding discourse contexts in which OTT intensiﬁcation appears often
contain exclamation points, as in (15), further indexing the speakers’ viewpoints for pragmatic
impact.
20 Rachelle Waksler
3.3. Negatives
Examples of so used with negative targets are abundant in the data, with targets from a variety
of syntactic categories, as exempliﬁed in (16–19):
(16) NegþAP: Dude. Shrimp is so not vegetarian.
(17) NegþPP: First off . . . this is so not in Hayes Valley.
(18) NegþVP: And for three weeks, despite my best intentions, I
repeated, ‘‘nah, f—k that noise, I am so not pushing these clothes back up
this hill in two hours.’’
(19) NegþNP: [after visit to haircutter] I looked like me, which is
so not what I’m going for.
In (16–19), OTT intensiﬁcation is recognizable due to the presence of so in a new syntactic
environment, taking a negative target. In (16), the subjectivity of the OTT construction is
further supported by the use of the vocative ‘‘Dude,’’ which has the impact of calling out to
the interlocutor to point out his/her inadequate characterization of possible vegetarian entrees.
In (17), the initial phrase ‘‘ﬁrst off,’’ followed by ellipses denoting a pause preview the
speaker’s upcoming disparagement of the interlocutor’s error. The speaker in (17) is about to
introduce several problems, and OTT intensiﬁcation is used to mark the speaker’s disdain for
such an obvious mistake. In (18), the speaker is recalling an imagined scenario in which she
would have had to perform a difﬁcult and unpleasant task, and she uses the OTT so with the
negative VP target to underscore her attitude toward the task. The expletive in the sentence
further emphasizes her viewpoint. In (19), the OTT use of so preceding the negative NP clause
cues the speaker’s presentation of her feelings regarding the disappointing outcome of her
haircut.
Examples of totally with negative targets were also found, though they were less numerous in
the data set, because totally was usually used in discourse with a positive affect. However,
examples like (20) show totally with a negative target:
(20) One of the bartenders withheld change from our party to take her tip, which is totally not
ok. We were all of course going to tip the bartenders, but the tradition is – you give us the
change, we tip you, not you keep the change and spare us the bother of deciding whether
you earned one.
The sarcasm in the discourse context following the OTT intensiﬁcation in (20) (i.e., ‘‘spare us
the bother of deciding whether you earned one’’) further emphasizes the speaker’s perspective on
this situation, providing support for the subjectivity of the OTT intensiﬁcation.
Super, uber, so, and totally 21
3.4. Superlatives
Intensiﬁers so and totally do not traditionally allow superlative targets, but examples like
(21–22) are now found with OTT intensiﬁcation:
(21) Oh my God, this is *so* the best sushi I’ve ever had in the city!
(22) Sean Connery was totally the best James Bond. (¼example (8))
The introductory interjection ‘‘Oh my God’’ and the asterisks surrounding so in (21) support
the subjectivity analysis of OTT intensiﬁcation, further indexing the speaker’s perspective in this
sentence. In (22), taken from the intrasubject data set, Rachel Maddow highlights her particular
viewpoint regarding Sean Connery versus the other actors who portrayed James Bond. Note that
the truth value of (22) would be the same with or without the intensiﬁer; the intensiﬁer’s sole
function is to cue subjectivity in this sentence.
4. SEMANTICS OF OTT CONSTRUCTIONS
4.1. General semantic properties
OTT constructions are employed in a wide variety of situations, with positive, negative, or
neutral affect. Targets in OTT constructions exhibited evaluative properties (e.g., excellent, nice,
helpful) as well as nonevaluative properties (e.g., backed up, local). Indeed, the targets in OTT
constructions exhibit the full range of property types (Dixon, 1977): dimension, physical property,
color, human propensity, age, value, speed, position. A sampling of the different property types
found in the data set is provided in (23–26):
(23) Physical property:
. . . the perfect place for a romantic date, especially if your date is smart enough to
ﬁgure out how to eat Mitchell’s ice cream with super ﬂimsy spoons, which makes it
even more romantic.
(24) Human propensity:
I like that there were free drinks to help me shake off my ‘‘you are so not welcome here,
I mean seriously, did you see what you’re wearing?’’ vibe I got upon entrance.
(25) Value:
The classes are uber cheap. That’s right, twenty bucks per unit.
(26) Speed:
Totally slow. One time I went in there to mail a package and it took 30 minutes.
22 Rachelle Waksler
Tagliamonte and Roberts’ (2005) study of intensiﬁers used in the Friends television series
showed a preponderance of targets with emotional value, but OTT intensiﬁcation is not similarly
constrained. In fact, OTT intensiﬁcation is quite wide-ranging, appearing with emotional target
properties (e.g., happy, jealous, sorry) as well as with target properties lacking emotion (e.g., long,
modern, random).
4.2. Surpassing semantic limits
OTT intensiﬁcation is found to surpass two types of semantic limits of its target: gradability
and boundedness. OTT intensiﬁers can take targets whose properties are not gradable, and thus
would not be expected to undergo intensiﬁcation, and override the gradability feature on the
semantic level. Similarly, targets that are unbounded, and thus would not be expected to be
modiﬁed by the bounded intensiﬁer totally, are found to undergo OTT intensiﬁcation. I argue in
this section that it is this surpassing of the semantic limits that signals subjectivity.
4.2.1. Gradability. Intensiﬁers are gradation markers, so their targets ordinarily denote gradable
properties. Denotations for targets like soft, displeased, and in fashion can be mapped onto a
gradation scale (e.g., fairly soft, extremely displeased, somewhat in fashion). OTT intensiﬁers,
however, take targets with [gradable] properties and make them [þgradable], overriding the
semantic features of the targets. Consider (27–29) below:
(27) And that’s when I realize something: this dude is SO not my age.
(28) The crowd at 222 is super random.
(29) they so have the monopoly on the market
In (27), the semantic property denoted by the target constitutent not my age is either true or
false of some individual. The intensiﬁcation construction with so forces gradability onto this
target, overriding its [gradable] semantic feature. The speaker is thus mapping the [gradable]
property onto a gradable continuum, indexing those ages closer to his age and those ages farther
from his age. The OTT construction conveys the speaker’s perspective, i.e., that ‘‘this dude’’ is
nowhere near the speaker’s age. Capitalization of the OTT intensiﬁer in (27) gives a further cue to
the speaker’s intent; it is the written equivalent of the GenX so intonation.
The target constituent in (28), random, expresses a property that is, again, either true or false
(i.e., non-gradable). Adding the intensiﬁer super overrides the [gradable] feature of this
property, marking it for subjectivity. Again, in (29), the target predicate have the monopoly on the
market expresses a non-gradable property, but the OTT intensiﬁer overrides the semantics of the
target and maps it onto a continuum of values. The lexical semantics of monopoly further
enhances the arresting impact of the OTT intensiﬁcation, because if a company has a monopoly on
some market, it is not possible for any other company to have a monopoly on the same market.
Super, uber, so, and totally 23
4.2.2. Boundedness. The semantic feature of boundedness characterizes the property of having a
natural endpoint (Kennedy & McNally, 2005; Paradis, 2001). Bounded arguments have a natural
endpoint, and unbounded arguments do not. Examples of bounded and unbounded arguments are
provided in (30):
(30)
Unbounded (no natural endpoint) Bounded: (natural endpoint)
#completely short Ocompletely open
#a completely praised puppy Oa completely frozen pizza
As shown in (30), the boundedness feature of the argument must match that of its intensiﬁer.
Completely is a bounded intensiﬁer, and so it cannot be used with unbounded arguments (unless
OTT intensiﬁcation overrides the natural semantic limits). There is no natural endpoint for being
short, so completely short is semantically infelicitous (without OTT intensiﬁcation). Similarly,
there is no natural endpoint to praising a puppy, so a completely praised puppy is semantically
infelicitous. Conversely, for properties like open or frozen, where there are natural endpoints, the
bounded intensiﬁer matches the bounded argument. Thus, e.g., it is possible for a window to be
slightly open, or completely open, i.e., open to the maximum of its natural limits.
OTT intensiﬁcation can be used to override the semantic feature of boundedness, applying to
change a [bounded] target property to a [þbounded] one. Examples illustrating OTT
intensiﬁcation surpassing the semantic limits of boundedness are given in (31–33):
(31) You have given me some seriously sexy hair! I totally strut down Van Ness after I leave.
(32) this time, she got out my totally old highlights and then again did the amazing with my
hair.
(33) Everyone there is really funky and totally funny (I think we talked about vaginas for a
bit . . . on my ﬁrst visit).
Strutting, in (31), is an atelic verb (i.e., it has no natural endpoint), so it would not be expected
to be used with a bounded intensiﬁer like totally. The use of OTT intensiﬁcation maps the
unbounded target predicate strut onto a bounded scale, and places the speaker’s strutting at the end
limit of the scale, marking the target for subjectivity. Similarly, in (32), there is no natural limit to
how old highlights can be, so the coupling of the bounded intensiﬁer totally with the unbounded
property old produces OTT intensiﬁcation. The speaker reinforces her particular viewpoint in the
following conjunct, using an already semantically loaded lexical item (amazing) in an innovative
way (i.e., using zero-derivation morphology to make the adjective into a noun: ‘‘did the
amazing’’).
In (33), the target funny expresses an unbounded property (i.e., there is no limit to how
funny something can be), so its pairing with the bounded intensiﬁer totally yields OTT
intensiﬁcation. The parenthetical in (33) further supports the subjectivity marking of the OTT
24 Rachelle Waksler
intensiﬁcation: the speaker notes the peculiarity of talking about such an intimate subject on her
ﬁrst visit to this hair salon.
5. SURPASSING PRAGMATIC LIMITS
The intensiﬁers super and uber serve to place a target at an extreme point on the scale, higher
than intersubjectively understood expectations. These two intensiﬁers surpass the pragmatic limits
of expectation with respect to the target’s position on the scale, yielding OTT intensiﬁcation.
Super has the default locus of subjectivity, the intensiﬁer’s target. Uber adds the additional
component of highlighting the speaker’s connection to the target.
5.1. Super
Super is used to signal the speaker’s viewpoint that the position of the target constituent on the
scale exceeds pragmatic expectations. Super can be found in contexts with positive, negative, or
neutral affect. Consider the contrast between super and other felicitous intensiﬁers very, really,
and hella in (34):
(34) I’ve always had super (very/really/hella) long hair my whole life but the problem was
that it was always too thin.
In (34), the speaker’s use of super cues her perspective that the length of her hair is longer than
intersubjective expectations on hair length. The intensiﬁers very, really, and hella used in this
context would put the length of the hair at the high end of the scale, with hella reﬂecting a
markedly colloquial style of discourse, as well as signaling membership in a speech community
delimited by age (Waksler, 2000). Only super, however, conveys the speaker’s view that her hair
was even longer than pragmatic expectations of how long hair might be.
In (35–36), the speaker’s viewpoint that the target surpasses pragmatic limits is substantiated
with detailed evidence in the discourse following the intensiﬁed construction:
(35) It’s tiny and super hole-in-the-wall, next to a sketchy looking massage place
(36) The women who work here are super careful; they measure and check with you on the
front end to make sure everything is as you want them
In (35), the extreme position of the bar’s location is conﬁrmed by its neighbor’s description, ‘‘a
sketchy looking massage place.’’ The pragmatic context of a massage place combined with the
qualiﬁer sketchy looking suggests that the massage place may be used for illicit prostitution,
underscoring the bar’s out of the way location. In (36), the intensiﬁed construction is followed
by an entire sentence of corroborating evidence for the OTT positioning of the target on
Super, uber, so, and totally 25
the carefulness scale, ‘‘they measure and check with you on the front end to make sure everything
is as you want them.’’
5.2. Uber
Uber, borrowed from the German word meaning ‘‘over, above, excess,’’ also signals surpassing
the pragmatic expectations with respect to the position of the target on the scale, but adds
additional discourse information about the speaker’s connection to the target. The speaker’s
connection may be positive (i.e., aligning him/herself with the target), or negative (i.e.,
disassociating him/herself with the target). The data in (37–38) illustrate uber’s usage:
(37) It’s still an uber-modern, . . . trendy yogurt bar, so if you don’t like that vibe – like me –
you won’t like the vibe here.
(38) The store is uber-cool with a lot of black and lucite, so immediately you feel that you
are in an atelier rather than a ﬂower shop.
In (37), the speaker marks her perspective that this yogurt bar is off the charts on the scale of
how modern a yogurt bar would be expected to be, and also signals her connection with the target,
i.e., that she is disassociating herself from such an establishment. The clause following the
intensiﬁcation construction in (37) corroborates the discourse cue to uber’s speaker-connection
contribution: ‘‘if you don’t like that vibe – like me – you won’t like the vibe here.’’
Example (38) again expresses the speaker’s connection to the target, but this time the speaker is
associating himself with the uber-cool store. The lexical choice of atelier in the clause following
the intensiﬁcation construction accentuates the speaker’s position: he is cool, too, the kind of
person who would use a hip French word in everyday conversation.
The distinction between super and uber is shown clearly in (39), in which both intensiﬁers are
used:
(39) Despite all the uber-metro stuff happening in here, my brother found a super rad pair
of chocolate lace up boots
In the ﬁrst clause in (39), the speaker’s use of uber contributes two pieces of information: (a)
the target is even higher on a scale of ‘‘metro stuff’’ than one would expect the range of that scale
to be; (b) the speaker is expressing his connection with the target. The use of the lexical item
despite in this clause shows that the speaker’s connection in this case is a dissociative one. In the
second clause in (39), super is used to mark the position of the chocolate lace up boots as even
higher on the ‘‘rad’’ scale than pragmatic expectations would expect boots to be. The adjectives
included in the description ‘‘chocolate lace up boots,’’ as well as the choice of the lexical item
chocolate for the shade of brown, with its connotation of ‘‘delicious treat,’’ give further
corroboration of the target’s OTT position on the scale.
26 Rachelle Waksler
6. TYPOLOGY OF PROPERTIES FOR OVER-THE-TOP INTENSIFICATION
6.1. Surpassing limits on three linguistic levels
The research presented here has uncovered OTT intensiﬁcation at three different levels of the
linguistic structure: Syntactic, Semantic, and Pragmatic. Table 2.1 depicts the typology of OTT
intensiﬁcation with an example of each type.
It is, of course, possible for the OTT intensiﬁcation construction to surpass limits on more than
one level. For example, Shrimp is so not vegetarian surpasses both syntactic and semantic
([gradability]) limits; super random surpasses both semantic ([gradability]) and pragmatic limits.
Stacked intensiﬁers in OTT constructions can also be found, as illustrated in (40–41):
(40) I cannot even count the number of times models tripped over their dresses, almost
bumped into each other, or just failed to walk properly down the runway. The timing
was super super off.
(41) Like omigod, you should so TOTALLY get those rad earrings and wear them to
homecoming!
In (40), the combination of superþsuper magniﬁes the degree to which the target’s position on
the scale exceeds the intersubjectively expected limit. In this case, the speaker gives detailed
Table 2.1. Typology of OTT intensiﬁcation
Type Example
Syntactic (surpassing syntactic privilege of occurrence) Dude. Shrimp is so not
vegetarian.
Semantic (surpassing semantic property)
 Gradability The crowd at 222 is super
random
 Boundedness I totally strut down Van Ness
after I leave.
Pragmatic (surpassing intersubjectively understood
expectations of scale range)
 Target scale range (default) super hole-in-the-wall, super
careful
 Target scale range plus speaker-connection uber delicious, uber-modern
Super, uber, so, and totally 27
descriptions in the discourse to document the models’ surprising failures in timing on the runway.
In (41), the speaker’s OTT use of soþtotally yields compositional intensiﬁcation for the two
intensiﬁers. Analyzing the sentence according to its constituent structure, totally surpasses the
semantic limits on the target VP, and then so surpasses the semantic limits on the new (already
intensiﬁed) predicate.
Note that in the interpretation for (41), the scope of the intensiﬁcation is broadened to include
the entire proposition. That is, (41) is not an intensiﬁcation of the position of the predicate [get
those rad earrings and wear them to homecoming] on a scale, but, rather an intensiﬁcation of how
much [you should get those rad earrings and wear them to homecoming]. This broadening of the
intensiﬁcation scope would obtain with either of the quantiﬁers in (41) individually, so it is not
due to the presence of multiple quantiﬁers. Section 5.2 presents discussion of intensiﬁer scope
broadening, as well as a revision of some of the traditional intensiﬁer categories.
6.2. Revising intensiﬁer categories
Traditional intensiﬁer categories for the augmenting intensiﬁers include overlapping sets, as
seen in (42):
(42) Traditional intensiﬁer categories (Athanasiadou, 2007; Ito & Tagliamonte, 2003;
Nevalainen & Rissanen, 2002; Quirk, Greenbaum, Leech, & Svartvik, 1985)
a) Boosters (e.g., very, really, so) – increase degree of target property on scale
b) Maximizers (e.g., completely, totally, absolutely) – increase degree of target property
to position at end limit of scale
c) Emphasizers (e.g., really, so, totally, absolutely) – reinforce truth value
As seen above in Section 4.2.2, and following Paradis (2001) and Kennedy and McNally
(2005), the function of the intensiﬁer matches the semantic features of its target. The booster vs.
maximizer category distinction is a reﬂex of the semantic feature [7bounded]. Exemplary
members for the categories shown in (43) are representative of the pattern that the booster and
maximizer sets are nonintersecting, and the emphasizer set contains only items that are members
of either the booster or the maximizer set.
The emphasizer set’s traditional function, to reinforce truth value, is, in fact, predictable based
on the semantic type of its target. The emphasizer category contains those intensiﬁers which
modify propositions. Since the denotation of a proposition is a truth value, when the scope of an
intensiﬁer is a proposition, intensiﬁcation serves to modify that truth value. That is, intensiﬁcation
of a propositional target serves to reinforce the speaker’s certainty of the truth value of the
proposition, to the degree determined by the semantics of the particular intensiﬁer.
Let us consider some examples to instantiate the possible combinations. If the intensiﬁer is
[–bounded], and the target’s semantic denotation is a property, like so San Francisco, or so not
28 Rachelle Waksler
vegetarian, the intensiﬁer will serve to increase the degree of that property on the scale. The
interpretation, then, of so San Francisco, maps the property of being San Francisco onto
a gradable scale, based on features that the speaker considers representative of San Francisco, and
places this particular café high on the scale. Similarly, for so not vegetarian, the speaker maps the
property of being not vegetarian onto a gradable scale, and then puts shrimp at a point high up on
that scale (higher than eggs, e.g., which might be considered less not vegetarian than shrimp).
If the intensiﬁer is [þbounded], and the target’s denotation is a property, like totally slow, or
totally not ok, the intensiﬁer will serve to increase the degree of that property to the end limit of
the scale. The OTT intensiﬁcation constructions totally slow, and totally not ok, then, override the
natural boundedness features of the target properties for slow, and not ok, map those properties
onto their respective scales with end limits, and put the targets at the end limit points.
If the intensiﬁer is [bounded], and the target is interpreted as a proposition, as in I am so
getting my wedding cake done by them, the intensiﬁer will serve to increase the speaker’s certainty
of the truth value of that proposition. OTT intensiﬁcation of the proposition [I am getting my
wedding cake done by them] using so signals the speaker’s degree of certainty of the truth value
of that proposition as high on the scale.
Finally, if the intensiﬁer is [þbounded], and the target is interpreted as a proposition, as in I’ll
totally go again, the intensiﬁer will serve to increase the speaker’s certainty of the truth value of
that proposition to a position at the end limit of the certainty scale. The OTT intensiﬁcation of the
proposition [I’ll go again] using totally yields the interpretation that the speaker is maximally
certain of the truth value of that proposition.
Thus, the function of emphasizers is predictable based on the type of intensiﬁer ([7bounded])
and the semantic type of its target; there is no need for a separate emphasizer category. The
question remaining, however, is how to predict when the target of the intensiﬁer is a proposition.
This question is addressed in Section 6.3 below.
6.3. Determining the scope of OTT intensiﬁers
Usually, the scope of the intensiﬁer is the property represented by its syntactic target. An
intensiﬁer than modiﬁes an adjective, noun, verb, preposition, or their respective phrasal
constitutents, e.g., serves to modify the semantic property set denoted by that constituent
(Bolinger, 1972; Kennedy & McNally, 2005). As seen above, however, some intensiﬁers serve to
modify entire propositions. Either the pragmatics or the semantics of the targets (or both) may lead
to their interpretations as propositions. Let us consider two such examples:
(43) You’re totally getting laid.
(44) They siad they’d be there w/in 30 minutes, guess what?? They SO were ther WAY w/in
30 min, AWESOME!!! [typing errors sic]
Super, uber, so, and totally 29
In (43), the pragmatics of getting laid (i.e., we do not usually contrast partial vs. complete
states of that predicate) cue the addressee that the target of intensiﬁcation is not the predicate
getting laid, but, rather, the speaker’s certainty about the proposition you’re getting laid. Note that
a different predicate, such as totally snarﬁng that cereal, would receive the expected property
interpretation, in which the semantic features of snarﬁng that cereal (e.g., gobbling it up quickly,
or in great quantities) were maximized.1
In (44), because the predicate were there WAY w/in 30 min resists interpretation as a gradable
property (i.e., either they were there or were not there), the interpretation of the OTT
intensiﬁcation is that of the intensiﬁed proposition, providing the speaker’s conﬁrmation of her
high degree of certainty of the truth value of that proposition (i.e., that the locksmiths were there
as they had promised). The speaker’s bolding of were in (44) is also a cue to the interpretation of
the intensiﬁed target as the proposition; it is the written version of accent on that verb.
Sometimes, an OTT intensiﬁcation construction is ambiguous between a reading in which the
target is interpreted as a predicate or a proposition. When picking up a phone that kept ringing in
the middle of my large Introduction to Linguistics class, I barked at the caller:
(45) You SO have the wrong number.
My intention when I uttered (45) was to express OTT intensiﬁcation of the target predicate
have the wrong number, i.e., to let the caller know that in my viewpoint, whatever number the
caller was trying to reach was many digits off from the number in my classroom. But (45) can
alternatively be interpreted as intensiﬁcation of the proposition You have the wrong number,
which would yield the meaning ‘‘I am quite certain that you have the wrong number.’’ In sum, the
scope of an intensiﬁer is usually able to be determined by the semantics or pragmatics of the target
constituent, but sometimes, felicitous readings may be obtained with either a predicate or a
propositional scope. In such cases, the sentence will be ambiguous between those two readings.
7. CONCLUSION: OTT INTENSIFICATION AND SUBJECTIVITY
In this paper, I have documented and analyzed the use of English intensiﬁers {super, uber, so,
totally} to mark subjectivity in colloquial discourse. The proposal is that subjectivity is not a
property of the intensiﬁer per se; it is a result of OTT intensiﬁcation, calling attention to the
speaker’s point of view by surpassing a target’s syntactic, semantic, and/or pragmatic limits.
1
There is an interaction between the pragmatics of the predicate and its interpretation as future or
present, as well as an interaction between future and propositional interpretation. These areas are
beyond the scope of the present paper, but ripe for investigation. Nevertheless, the examples in Section
6.3 document propositional interpretations obtained in future, past, and present situations.
30 Rachelle Waksler
I have posited a typology of OTT intensiﬁcation, and also reduced the traditional number of
intensiﬁer categories to eliminate a third category whose function was predictable. Though
the data set in this paper focused on OTT intensiﬁcation in colloquial style, the construction’s
range on the style continuum, as well as its users’ age range, seems to be expanding quickly. It can
be found in what (Zwicky, 2006) calls ‘‘relaxed formal’’ style (e.g., in a New York Times editorial),
and with users from a broad range of ages.
REFERENCES
Athanasiadou, A. (2007). On the subjectivity of intensiﬁers. Language Sciences, 29, 554–565.
Bauer, L., & Bauer, W. (2002). Adjective boosters in the English of young New Zealanders. Journal of English
Linguistics, 30, 244–257.
Bolinger, D. (1972). Degree words. The Hague: Mouton.
Dixon, R. (1977). Where have all the adjectives gone? Studies in Language, 1(1), 19–80.
Ito, R., & Tagliamonte, S. (2003). Well weird, right dodgy, very strange, really cool: Layering and recycling in
English intensiﬁers. Language in Society, 32, 257–259.
Kennedy, C., & McNally, L. (2005). Scale structure, degree modiﬁcation, and the semantics of gradable
predicates. Language, 81(2), 345–381.
Macaulay, R. (2006). Pure grammaticalization. The development of a teenage intensiﬁer. Language Variation
and Change, 18, 267–283.
Nevalainen, T., & Rissanen, M. (2002). Fairly pretty or pretty fair? On the development and
grammaticalization of English downtoners. Language Sciences, 24(3-4), 359–380.
Paradis, C. (2001). Adjectives and boundedness. Cognitive Linguistics, 12, 47–65.
Quirk, R., Greenbaum, S., Leech, G., & Svartvik, J. (1985). A comprehensive grammar of the English
language. London: Longman.
Tagliamonte, S. (2008). So different and pretty cool! Recycling intensiﬁers in Canadian English. English
Language and Linguistics, 12, 361–394.
Tagliamonte, S., & D’Arcy, A. (2009). Adolescence, incrementation, and language change. Language, 85(1),
58–108.
Tagliamonte, S., & Roberts, C. (2005). So weird; so cool; so innovative. The use of intensiﬁers in the television
series Friends. American Speech, 80, 280–300.
Waksler, R. (2000). A hella new speciﬁer. In S. Chung (Ed.), Festschrift for Jorge Hankamer. Retrieved from
http://ling.ucsc.edu/Jorge
Zwicky, A. (2006). So in style at the NYT. Language Log, April 6. Retrieved from http://
itre.cis.upenn.edu/Bmyl/languagelog/archives/002994.html
Super, uber, so, and totally 31
This page intentionally left blank
Subjectivity in Language and in Discourse
Edited by Nicole Baumgarten, Inke Du Bois and Juliane House
r 2012 by Emerald Group Publishing Limited. All rights reserved.
3
COLLECTIVE ASPECTS OF SUBJECTIVITY:
THE SUBJECT PRONOUN eleı́1 (‘WE’)
IN MODERN GREEK
Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou
1. INTRODUCTION
The purpose of the present paper is to explore subjectivity in connection with a group or
collectivity, a member of which the speaker signals to be. Two features have characterized the
literature on subjectivity. First, ever since Benveniste’s milestone treatise on subjectivity in
language, published in 1958 (cf. Benveniste, 1971), the ‘I’ has been taken to be the primordial
linguistic site of subjectivity. Like Benveniste, Lyons’ well known delineation of ‘subjectivity’ as
referring ‘‘to the way in which natural languages, in their structure and in their normal manner of
operation, provide for the locutionary agent’s expression of himself and of his own attitudes and
beliefs’’ (Lyons, 1982, p. 102) enhances the orientation to the singular subject. The emergence of
interest in subjectivity within cognitive linguistics and the subsequent subjectivity boom from the
mid-1990s onwards (cf. Stein & Wright, 1995) retain exclusive focus on the singular
manifestation of the speaking subject. In the last decade, there has been a growing interest in
topics like stance (e.g. Kärkkäinen, 2003), point of view (e.g. Scheibman, 2002), perspective (e.g.
Graumann & Kallmeyer, 2002), positioning (e.g. Eckert & McConnell-Ginet, 2003), etc., all of
which pertain to aspects of the speaking subject. But again, almost all of these studies deal
exclusively1
with the ﬁrst person singular, thus focusing on the speaker as an individual.
1
A notable exception is Scheibman (2002).
Sometimes, however, the speaking subject explicitly ‘‘expresses’’ or self-presents herself/
himself as part of a group or collectivity. Quite obviously, this is the case when the speaker uses
the ﬁrst person plural pronoun in the nominative case: ‘we’ always purports to include the
speaking subject while at the same time positioning it as belonging to a group.2
But the group
alluded to by the indexical ‘we’ is not necessarily ﬁxed (a list of members); it may simply be a
collectivity, without clear-cut boundaries, corresponding to a category.3
Nor does it have to be
pre-deﬁned; rather, it may get constructed – sometimes, even explicitly deﬁned or delineated –
during discourse itself. Moreover, it does not have to remain constant, even if uttered by the
same speaker, during the same stretch of discourse; on the contrary, it may change and get
reconstructed with every utterance, indicating varying alliances and allegiances. Although it is
true that the ‘I’, too, may encompass variation – pointing e.g. to different aspects of the
speaker’s identity or personality – it maintains a certain stability, if used by the same speaker
during the same stretch of discourse. The ‘we’ thus seems to have a kind of inherent ﬂuidity that
the ‘I’ lacks.
A second feature of the literature on subjectivity is that discussion of the phenomenon is
restricted to languages in which the presence of the subject pronoun is obligatory. However, in
certain zero-subject languages,4
e.g. Italian, Spanish and Greek, the subject is morphologically
marked on the verb (inﬂected, among other things, for person). In such languages, personal
pronouns in subject position are considered syntactically/referentially redundant.5
Traditionally,
an emphatic and/or contrastive function has been attributed to such pronouns. Several studies,
however, working with naturally occurring conversational data, have offered more differentiated
views on the role of the ‘redundant’ subject pronouns (cf. e.g. Duranti, 1984, for Italian;
Davidson, 1996 and Stewart, 2003, for Spanish; Hacohen & Schegloff, 2006, for Hebrew),
2
The same applies of course to other cases of the personal pronoun, e.g. ‘us’, or some other pronouns
like the possessive ‘ours’ and the reﬂexive ‘ourselves’. But since, as we shall see below, the focus of
the paper is on the personal pronoun in subject position, the discussion that follows will be conﬁned
to ‘we’.
3
Cf. also Sacks’s lecture 3 in Fall 1965: ‘‘‘We’ can refer to a category, which has as one of its crucial
properties that no intention exists of listing the incumbents, and furthermore they’re not listable. That is,
‘we’ can refer to an inﬁnite population’’ (Sacks, 1995, vol. I, p. 148f).
4
Since the object-language of the present chapter is Modern Greek, the following discussion will take
into consideration only zero-subject languages in which the subject is morphologically marked on the
verb-form.
5
Besides being called ‘redundant’, such pronouns are also commonly referred to as ‘free-standing’ or
‘overt’ pronouns. All of these designations, however, apply to the marking of the subject itself and not
to the pronoun, since there are no ‘bound’ or ‘covert’ pronouns but only bound grammatical
morphemes in these languages. With this precaution in mind, I will be using the attribute ‘free-standing’
for the subject pronoun emeı́B (‘we’) in the present paper.
34 Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou
without dealing speciﬁcally with the ﬁrst person plural pronoun, though.6
Only in Pavlidou (2007,
2008) have the ﬁrst steps been taken towards the examination of the role of the free-standing ﬁrst
person plural pronoun emeı́B in the construction of (gendered) collectivities in Modern Greek.
The aim, then, of this chapter is to look more closely at the collective aspects of subjectivity
and the role of the Modern Greek pronoun emeı́B (‘we’) in the construction of collective subjects.
In other words, what is of interest here is not when or why a speaker employs collective as
opposed to individual self-reference;7
rather, my point of departure is: once a speaker has chosen
to self-refer collectively, and this is manifested unambiguously in the verb form that s/he employs,
under what circumstances is the free-standing pronoun emeı́B also used and what are the
implications of this choice with respect to the collective subject? More speciﬁcally, taking a
Conversation Analysis stance, I will argue that the contribution of emeı́B to the construction of the
collective subject is not constant or given but the outcome of a dynamic interplay between (a) the
position of the turn containing this subject pronoun in the sequential context of conversation, and
(b) a number of cognitive and interactional dimensions, among which the informational import of
the utterance with respect to the collective subject, the composition of the group or collectivity
(the members it comprises) and the positioning of the speaker towards the addressee.
Before going into the analysis, however, I will provide (Section 2) some information on the
background of the present study, including a brief discussion of the ﬁrst person plural in general,
the role of subject pronouns in zero-subject languages, and my preliminary ﬁndings on the subject
pronoun emeı́B. In Section 3, I will be looking at the sequential contexts of turns containing this
subject pronoun. More speciﬁcally, emeı́B will be examined in turns that initiate a sequence (3.1),
in sequence-continuing turns (3.2), and ﬁnally in sequence-closing turns/sequences (3.3). Section
4 will offer an overall discussion of the results and some conclusions to be drawn from these.
2. PREPARING THE GROUND
2.1. The ﬁrst person plural
Several authors (cf. e.g. Benveniste, 1971; Cysouw, 2003; Helmbrecht, 2002; Mühlhäusler &
Harré, 1990; Sacks, 1995; Siewierska, 2004; Wales, 1996; cf. also Du Bois, this volume) have
6
Although the title of Stewart’s (2001) publication may lead to the impression that the article deals with
the redundant Spanish pronoun nosotros, the author explicitly states that it was not her ‘‘concern to
study the presence or absence of the pronoun itself but rather the occurrence of a given verbal form of
personal reference (whether accompanied or not by the pronoun)’’ (2001, p. 161).
7
On these (or similar) issues, see e.g. Sacks’s lecture 11 in spring 1967 (Sacks, 1995, vol. I, pp. 568-
577) and Lerner and Kitzinger (2007). Cf. also Brewer and Gardner (1996) where such matters are
discussed from a social psychological point of view.
Collective aspects of subjectivity 35
pointed to the complexities of ‘we’, some of which I have alluded to in the introduction. For
one, the very nature of this ‘plural’ has been called into question, since ‘‘the oneness and the
subjectivity inherent in ‘I’ contradict the possibility of a pluralization’’ (Benveniste, 1971,
p. 202). More speciﬁcally, the ‘we’, according to Benveniste, ‘‘is not a multiplication of
identical objects but a junction between ‘I’ and the ‘non-I’’’, with the former being the con-
stitutive element of ‘we’. It is this predominance of ‘I’ in constituting the ‘we’ that renders,
under certain conditions, the singular interpretation of ‘we’ as ‘I’ (‘royal we’, ‘author/orator we’,
etc.) possible. On the other hand, the indeterminacy of ‘non-I’ allows for its interpretation as
‘you’ or ‘they’ (resulting in some languages in the formal distinction between an inclusive and
an exclusive ‘we’8
).
Mühlhäusler and Harré (1990) have put it even more pointedly:
[G]iven the right functional and contextual factors, we [and similar pronouns in some
other languages] can be used to encode any of the six persons that are usually distinguished in
English. (p. 177)
The two authors argue that the different meanings of ‘we’ (e.g. the ‘royal we’ and the ‘academic
we’ – both having individual self-reference – or the ‘directive we’ that has the addressee as
referent, and so on) derive from the different functions of language (directive, integrative,
expressive, cognitive – associated with the inclusive/ exclusive versions of ‘we’ – and
combinations thereof) in the situational contexts of the pronoun’s use. The common denominator
to these different meanings is taken to be: ‘‘I as speaker, but not necessarily indexical referent,
plus someone else’’ (1990, p. 170). In other words, the ﬁrst person plural signals group
indexicality:
By selecting we rather than another pronominal form a speaker introduces a bond with
his/her interlocutors. Through this other persons are brought into an obligation pattern
and the responsibility of the speaker is accordingly reduced. (Mühlhäusler & Harré, 1990,
p 178)9
8
Although the distinction between inclusive/exclusive we is not morphologically or lexically marked in
English, Scheibmann’s (2004) analysis of conversational utterances in the ﬁrst person plural has
demonstrated that differing referential values of we (i.e. ‘inclusive/exclusive dual’, ‘inclusive/exclusive
plural’) may be signaled by the differential employment of other formal features of the utterance such as
grammatical tense and modal verbs. For example, an inclusive-plural interpretation of we has been
found to favor employment of present tense and modal verbs, while exclusive interpretations of we
appear more frequently with past tense and fewer modal verbs.
9
According to Mühlhäusler and Harré (1990, p. 178), this also holds for the ‘royal we’ – the speaker in
this case speaking as a representative of an/a (unspeciﬁed) group rather than as a self.
36 Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou
The referential ﬂexibility of ‘we’ across different contexts has been the object of much
subsequent research. In particular, the communicative implications of preferred referential
values of ‘we’ in certain discourse domains and genres, like establishing solidarity,
mitigating face-threatening acts, enhancing one’s argumentative position, evading exclusive
agency and responsibility, and so on, have been at the heart of several studies on the use of
the ﬁrst person plural pronoun.10
However, even in one and the same context the ﬁrst
person plural can take more than one interpretation – a fact that contradicts the tacit
assumption of some scholars that ‘‘a given pronoun is ‘tidily indexical of its referent’’’, as
Stewart (2001, p. 159) points out. Her analysis of the Spanish ﬁrst person plural in editorial
meetings (newspaper and radio station) has shown that the referential value of nosotros in an
utterance can be indeterminate or ambiguous, e.g. between an inclusive- and an exclusive-
‘we’ interpretation; it is this referential ambiguity that speaker and hearer can exploit
strategically in order to handle face-threatening acts in the maintenance and negotiation of
their relationship.
The bulk of the research on the ﬁrst person plural concerns the English language, but there
has been a growing number of studies on ‘we’ in other languages in the last years.11
With
respect to Modern Greek, the ﬁrst person plural as such has received scanty attention. The few
observations available go back to Tzartzanos (1991 [1946]), who registers several uses of the
plural number for singular reference, noting in particular the ‘modesty plural’ (that includes the
academic ‘we’, but also instances of presenting one’s self in a ‘‘somewhat general and
indeﬁnite’’ manner (1991, p. 52, my translation) and also the exact opposite, i.e. the ‘majestic
plural’ (equivalent to the royal ‘we’). To these Holton et al. (1997) add the use of the ﬁrst
person plural to refer to the addressee ‘‘when the speaker wants to show that s/he participates
emotionally in the meaning of the verb either positively or negatively’’ (1997, p. 199), as well
as its use when giving ‘‘directions or instructions which have a general applicability’’, like e.g.
in recipes (1997, pp. 198–199). In other words, what Greek grammars register is the possibility
that ‘we’ is used for non-collective self-reference or for second person reference.
10
For example, academic lecturing (e.g. Fortanet, 2004) and writing (e.g. Kuo, 1999), political
discourse (e.g. Pyykkö, 2002; Skarzynska, 2002), political interviews (Bull & Fetzer, 2006), newspaper
editorials (Temmerman, 2008).
11
Cf. for example, de Fina (1995) and Stewart (2001) on Spanish; Mao (1996) on Chinese; Margutti
(2007) and Bazzanella (2009) on Italian; Pyykkö (2002) on Russian; Pavlidou and Kapellidi (2005)
on Greek; Temmerman (2008) on Dutch; Borthen (2010) on Norwegian; Assouline (2010) on
Jiddish.
Collective aspects of subjectivity 37
2.2. Subject pronouns in zero-subject languages12
Although some of the above-mentioned research on the ﬁrst person plural deals with zero-
subject languages, e.g. Stewart (2001) and Margutti (2007), these studies do not take issue with the
redundancy aspect of the free-standing ﬁrst person plural pronoun, nor with the implications of its
presence. As already indicated, subject pronouns in zero-subject languages like Spanish or Italian
have been traditionally attributed an emphatic and/or contrastive function – a view also shared by
Greek grammarians. Tzartzanos, e.g., remarks that the ﬁrst and second person subjects ‘‘normally’’
do not appear in a sentence; only when ‘‘there is emphasis or when a contradistinction is made’’
does the subject appear (1991, p. 48, my translation). Holton et al. (1997) even call these pronouns
‘‘emphatic’’, distinguishing them from the weak (clitic) pronouns. But their notion of emphasis,
though not explicitly discussed, is apparently not on the same level as that of contrast; rather, it
seems to be understood as a hypernym covering both contrast and topicalization.13
Discourse-based
studies, on the other hand, suggest that the role of free-standing pronouns in zero-subject languages
is more intricate than what can be adequately captured by ascribing emphasis or contrast to them. In
spite of the fact that none of the studies available explicitly examines ‘we’, we will discuss them
brieﬂy in this section, as some insights can be gained from their approach to the problem.
One of the ﬁrst studies to draw attention to the enriched functional gamut of the Italian subject
pronouns was Duranti’s (1984). Based on an analysis of narratives in conversation, Duranti
suggested that from the point of view of the informational structure of discourse, the Italian
pronouns io, tu, lui, lei, etc. are devices with which attention is drawn to human referents ‘‘who
have already been established as part of the current narrative frame, but have not been mentioned
in the immediately prior discourse’’14
(p. 279), i.e. on referents who are ‘‘old’’ but ‘‘not given’’
information (in the sense that these referents cannot be assumed to be in the addressee’s
‘‘consciousness’’ or ‘‘active ﬁle’’, according to Chafe (reference in Duranti, 1984)); their
appearance is related to changes in discourse continuity (according to Givón (reference in Duranti,
1984)) such as subtopic shifts. From the point of view of social meaning, speakers use the third
12
As noted above (see footnote 5), the present discussion is limited to zero-subject languages with
morphological marking of the subject on the verb form.
13
Cf. Holton et al.’s (1997, p. 308) comment that in subject position, emphatic pronouns are used when
‘‘the person of the verb is emphasized for contrastive purposes [ . . . ] or when the subject is topicalized
[ . . . ]’’ (emphasis in the original).
14
According to Duranti (1984, p. 289), a referent does not need to have already been mentioned prior to
the particular utterance in which s/he features in order to be considered old or shared information.
Speaker and addressee are considered always shared, deﬁnite information, therefore io and tu do not
presuppose prior mention of their referent. But even in the case of the third person pronouns prior
identiﬁcation of the referent is not a necessary condition, e.g. when a noun referring to the set that
contains the referent of lui/lei has been used.
38 Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou
person subject pronouns lui and lei also in order to deﬁne the main characters in a story and/or
express empathy or positive affect for these referents.
The focus of Davidson’s (1996) study is on the ﬁrst and second person Spanish subject
pronouns, yo (‘I’) and tú (‘you’), which in contrast to the third person are unambiguously
marked on the verb form, and hence, redundant. His analysis of four conversations among
Madrid students, recorded surreptitiously, conﬁrmed that the overt presence of these subject
pronouns is relatively marked (they make up only about 20% of all ﬁrst and second verb form
cases), and that they occur almost always in sentence-initial pre-verbal position (commonly
preceding the entire utterance), behaving like topicalized nominal phrases. Thus, their
appearance in conversation is inﬂuenced by a number of factors associated with their position
as discourse topics. Davidson argues that adding emphasis/contrastiveness is only part of what
these pronouns do and suggests that through their use speakers may accomplish several other
things as well – sometimes simultaneously – like signalling a truth-functional reading of
possible epistemic parenthetical verbs or a performative reading of a verb of saying, indicating
the intention to take and keep the ﬂoor for some time (in the case of the ﬁrst person pronoun) or
hand it over (in the case of the second person pronoun), and so on. In short, through their
employment speakers add ‘‘pragmatic weight’’ to their utterance – a notion that Davidson
introduces in order to encompass the various pragmatic and meta-linguistic functions that the
overt subject pronouns can have.15
A further aspect of the pragmatic weight that overt subject pronouns add to an utterance is,
according to Stewart (2003), related to politeness. Pronominal use, she maintains, involves the
ﬂouting of the Gricean maxims, thus inviting the addressee to infer unexpressed meanings with
respect to the speaker’s social identity, the negotiation of face, and so on. Using workplace data
(editorial meetings), as in her 2001 study, supplemented with recordings of discussions and
interviews, Stewart argues that the Spanish pronoun tú (‘you’) functions as a multi-functional
Gricean hedge to the maxim of quantity.16
Given that multiple referential interpretations (general
reference, reference to speaker, reference to addressee) can simultaneously apply to the same
15
In a similar vein, Kapellidi (2004), in seeking to substantiate the relationship between subjectivity
and involvement through the use of the ﬁrst and second person pronouns in subject position, argues in
her MA thesis that these pronouns index the speaker’s emotive stance, besides making his/her presence
more overt.
16
It is not clear why Stewart regards this as an instance of ﬂouting the maxim of quantity, since the
presence of the pronoun does not give more information than necessary – at least not on the referential
level; what it adds is more words on the same reference, and as such it may be better regarded as
ﬂouting the maxim of manner. This is the line taken by Leoudi (2005), who in her MA thesis maintains
that the use of the overt ‘I’ ﬂouts the Gricean sub-maxim of manner (‘‘Be brief (avoid unnecessary
prolixity)’’), giving rise to the implicature there is a person x, where x is not I, and x not p, where p is a
predicate. But there is no further discussion of the divergence from Stewart (2003), as Leoudi does not
seem to be aware of Stewart’s publication.
Collective aspects of subjectivity 39
token of tú in conversation, speakers can use it strategically to protect their own and their
interlocutor’s face and thus negotiate/maintain their interpersonal relationships.
More recently, Hacohen and Schegloff (2006) looked at referentially redundant pronouns from
the point of view of the preference for minimization in person reference (Sacks & Schegloff,
1979), i.e. the preference for a single form when referring to persons, whereby ‘single form’ can
be a phrase, a clause or an afﬁx. This preference implies that deployment of more than one single
reference form in an utterance will be inducing recipients (and analysts) to look for ‘‘what else is
being done besides referring’’ (Hacohen & Schegloff, 2006, p. 1306). More speciﬁcally, the two
authors examined the ﬁrst (ani ‘I’) and second (at for feminine, atah for masculine) person
singular pronouns in Hebrew, where the verb is inﬂected for person (along with number and
gender) in the past and future tenses, so that the sub-lexical marking of the syntactic subject
renders the free-standing pronouns referentially redundant. Their analysis of Hebrew conversa-
tional data shows that these pronouns appear in trouble environments of different kinds, e.g.
disagreement with prior talk or report of prior talk that involves disagreement/rejection; in other
words, the departure from minimization in this case is accounted for by the fact that the pronouns
are used in ‘‘marking, embodying or managing the negative valence or dispreferred character of
the local proceedings’’ (Hacohen & Schegloff, 2006, p. 1311).
Despite the fact that the analyses of the overt subject pronouns mentioned above are based on
naturalistic data, their comparability is rather limited – with the exception, perhaps, of the two
studies on Spanish pronouns. For one, their data are drawn from different discourse types (e.g.
narratives, workplace meetings, conversations). For another, they focus on speciﬁc pronouns
without always discussing to what extent their results can be generalized to other subject pronouns
in the same language, not to mention other languages. Finally, and most importantly, though
broadly socio-pragmatic, the studies discussed here adopt quite different theoretical perspectives.
Therefore, analysis of other pronouns and other zero-subject languages, notably the Greek ﬁrst
person plural pronoun emeı́B (‘we’), can only partially proﬁt from them.
2.3. Previous work on the subject pronoun eleı́1 (‘we’)
Turning now to the main object of inquiry in this paper, I would ﬁrst like to point out that in
Modern Greek there is no morphological differentiation between an inclusive and an exclusive ‘we’
and that the pronoun emeı́B is not marked for gender. Also, employment of the free-standing
pronoun is not a very frequent phenomenon, as a quantitative analysis of speaker deixis in Modern
Greek (Pavlidou & Kapellidi, 2005) based on six conversations among familiars and seven teaching
hours from high school, yielded. This study showed that self-reference through the use of indexicals
(subject pronouns and/or verb endings) is context-dependent; more speciﬁcally, speaker deixis was
20 times more frequent in the conversations examined than in classroom interaction. In addition,
preference for either ﬁrst person singular or plural was found to be context-dependent as well: in
the conversations examined singular self-reference was almost twice as frequent as plural self-
40 Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou
reference, whereas in classroom interaction plural self-reference was the preferred form. But in both
settings, the use of overt subject pronouns, i.e. egó (‘I’) or emeı́B (‘we’), made up only a small
percentage of total speaker deixis, whereby singular self-reference was more common than the
plural one; as a matter of fact, only two instances of the overt pronoun emeı́B were found in
classroom interaction while the conversations contained more than 120 tokens of this pronoun.
Given the paucity of emeı́B in classroom interaction, my subsequent examination of this subject
pronoun, e.g. in Pavlidou (2008), was based only on conversational data (more than 30
conversations between friends and relatives). It was argued that while the ﬁrst person plural verb
ending enables a general reference to a group or collectivity as the subject of the verb, the free-
standing pronoun topicalizes this subject in order to delineate, explicitly or implicitly, the
collectivity referred to. In demarcating, through various mechanisms (e.g. invocation of a common
activity/experience, addressing intended group members by name, specifying the spatial/temporal
domain of the group, etc.) who belongs to the ‘we’, the collectivity is constructed in speciﬁc ways,
which may be accepted or contested by the other participants of the conversation. In this way, the
construction of a collectivity in situ can be observed, in a manner that guarantees the relevance of
this collectivity for the conversationalists. Moreover, the rich data of this study revealed the great
variety of sentential and sequential contexts in which emeı́B appears, a fact that necessitates the
systematic analysis of the distribution of this pronoun. Interestingly, none of the occurrences of
emeı́B entailed non-collective self-reference (e.g. royal or academic ‘we’) or excluded the speaker
from the collective reference (e.g. directive use of ‘we’), meanings which are also associated with
the ﬁrst person plural (cf. Section 2.1); nor was emeı́B found in stereotypical verb phrases in the ﬁrst
person plural, like aB poúme (literally ‘let’s say’, in the sense of ‘sort of’) or na poúme (‘so to speak’).
It was also shown, however, that the collective referent is by no means always clear, even in cases
where the use of the pronoun emeı́B purports to provide referential information, i.e. in contexts
where the presence of the pronoun is structurally not redundant (answers to who-questions).
3. THE SUBJECT PRONOUN eleı́1 (‘WE’) IN THE SEQUENTIAL CONTEXT
OF CONVERSATION
As mentioned in the introduction, the purpose of the present chapter is to examine the role of
the Modern Greek free-standing subject pronoun emeı́B (‘we’) in the construction of a collective
subjectivity that includes the speaking subject. In Section 2.3, it was indicated that emeı́B appears
in a great variety of contexts, both sententially and sequentially. In this section, we will be looking
at the sequential contexts in which turns containing emeı́B appear and discuss the contribution of
the subject pronoun to the making of collective subjects in these environments. I will argue that
the role of emeı́B is not constant or given, but the result of the interplay among a number of
possible dimensions in connection to the sequential position of the turn containing it.
Collective aspects of subjectivity 41
The data for the present study are drawn from 33 tape-recorded and fully transcribed
conversations among friends and relatives.17
The conversations (at least half an hour long) were
tape-recorded as part of 25 graduate students’ semester work, whereby eight of the students had to
deliver two conversations). With one exception,18
each conversation involved the student herself/
himself as a participant plus two or three other friends or relatives. Students were speciﬁcally
instructed to erase anything they did not wish me or others to know about.
In these conversations, the free-standing subject pronoun emeı́B was encountered in less than
8% of all occurrences of the ﬁrst person plural verb form. Due to limited space, the following
discussion will be conﬁned to occurrences of the pronoun in pre-verbal position, i.e. the majority
(60.2%) of all cases, and to elliptical cases (7.3%), with the following additional restrictions: (a)
only main clauses19
will be analysed – the tacit assumption being that the functions of emeı́B in
subordinate clauses are derivable from those in the main ones, (b) cases in which the group
referred to by emeı́B is explicitly compared or juxtaposed to another group will not be considered
here.20
Taking these restrictions into account, we are left with a total of some 165 instances of the
pronoun emeı́B in the data.
3.1. Eleı́1 in sequence-initiating turns
Three types of turns with emeı́B that take sequence-initial position are found in my data:
questions, announcements and turns that launch a narrative.
3.1.1. Questions. The ﬁrst example we will look at is taken from an episode in which four friends
discuss the possibility of going to the movies. After talking about a certain ﬁlm that one of them
had suggested, the day before that they all go to, and possible alternatives, Chrysi mentions that an
17
The data stem from the Corpus of Spoken Greek which I have been compiling as part of my research
project on Greek Talk-in-Interaction and Conversation Analysis (http://ins.web.auth.gr/en/ylikoelectr/
Corpus.html) at the Institute for Modern Greek Studies (M. Triandaphyllidis Foundation), Aristotle
University of Thessaloniki. The data are transcribed according to the Conversation Analysis
transcription conventions (cf. the Appendix). Due to space reasons, a word-by-word gloss is
provided here only for the line(s) with the free-standing pronoun emeı́B on which the discussion focuses.
In these glossings, the ﬁrst person plural marked on the verb form is indicated as verb-WE. Other
abbreviations used are F ( ¼ feminine), M ( ¼ masculine), N ( ¼ neuter), PST ( ¼ past tense) INTERJ
( ¼ interjection); such information is added selectively, i.e. only if held necessary for understanding.
Finally, the symbol ^ is used to indicate external sandhi.
18
This conversation was recorded by the relatives of a student without her being present.
19
With a couple of exceptions concerning causal clauses (cf. Section 3.2.3).
20
These include some 40 instances of pre-verbal kai emeı́B . . . (‘we, too,...’), enó/allá
emeı́B . . . (‘whereas we’/‘but we’) oúte emeı́B . . . (‘neither did we’ (‘we don’t/didn’t . . . either’)), and a
small number (10) of similar cases without a verb (elliptical).
42 Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou
important ﬁlm will be shown on TV the same evening and that she would like to watch it. This
leads to a discussion about which movie showing (early or late one) they should be going to.
Chrysi then wraps up the discussion in lines 1–2 of extract (1). At this point, Myrto announces
that she will not be going along and provides some reasons (lines 3–5). After the silence in line 7,
Chrysi asks whether ‘we are going’, employing not only the ﬁrst person plural verb form, which
had been used throughout the episode in connection with going to the movies (up to Myrto’s
announcement), but also the subject pronoun emeı́B.
Extract (1): 5.3 Going to the movies
Why, then, does Chrysi employ (line 8) the subject pronoun emeı́B along with the verb form?
Notice that Myrto’s announcement is met with a silence (line 4), after which she accounts for her
decision (line 5). Except for a short giggle (line 6) in terminal overlap with Myrto’s turn, there is
again no reaction (line 7). In other words, the fact that Myrto has just detached herself from the
group, although they had been planning on going to the movies together, does not receive any
verbal comments and the sequence remains open (as a matter of fact it is only later on in the
episode that the other participants comment on Myrto’s decision and try to make her change her
mind, upon which Myrto admits that she does not care to see the ﬁlm the others decided to go to).
Had Chrysi asked (line 8) ‘are we going?’ using just the ﬁrst person plural verb form, the
collective subject marked on the verb form would have been co-referential with the one that had
Collective aspects of subjectivity 43
been used all along in this episode. By employing the subject pronoun emeı́B (in TCU-initial
position21
), Chrysi marks the collective subject as redeﬁned, now comprising only a subset of the
original group of participants to the exclusion of the previous speaker.
The next extract exempliﬁes a similar case, though this time the question with emeı́B (again in
TCU-initial position) involves not planning an action but reporting a past one. Extract (2) is taken
from an episode in which Vangelis, Ourania’s ﬁancé, talks about his brother’s excessive eating; he
alternates with Maria, who reports on similar practices of her own. Maria’s reports culminate in
the most recent incident of her eating pasta at 4:30 in the morning (lines 2–4). At this point
(line 5), Ourania asks what ‘we ate’, employing the subject pronoun emeı́B.
Extract (2): 4.1 Peculiar eating habits
21
TCU stands for turn-constructional unit (cf. e.g. Schegloff, 2007).
44 Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou
What Maria describes in lines 2–4 is some rather unusual behaviour, but Ourania does not
spare a single comment on it (in contrast to Maria, who in line 10 comments on Ourania’s
report on what she and Vangelis had for dinner). Moreover, what Maria is telling the others
is noteworthy not so much with respect to what she ate as to when she ate it. Ourania takes
up the former, i.e. the less relevant feature in the given context, and deliberates on what ‘we
ate’ (line 5);22
in other words, she does not assess the extraordinary incident that Maria is
telling them about. The question now is why Ourania employs both the ﬁrst person plural
verb form and the subject pronoun emeı́B. Had Ourania used only the ﬁrst person plural verb
form at this point, the collective subject might have been taken to apply to all persons
present.23
The subject pronoun emeı́B in Ourania’s turn marks the collective subject as a new
one, more speciﬁcally, as a subset of the participants that excludes the previous speaker
but includes the current speaker and some other party. This proves to be her ﬁancé; indeed,
Vangelis feels addressed by Ourania’s question: he ﬁrst acknowledges the question and
then starts providing an answer in line 6, in overlap with Ourania, to whom he ﬁnally cedes
the ﬂoor.
3.1.2. Announcements. In the next case, the turn involving emeı́B is not a question; rather, it
announces a future action. Extract (3) is from the same conversation as extract (2), but a
little later on, when Maria, Ourania and Vangelis are all at one that cooking for one person
is no fun (not included in the extract below). In line 1, Maria ﬁrst provides an agreement
token (in partial overlap with the previous turn) that could be taken as the closing of the
preceding sequence; she goes on, however, to underpin her position by mentioning that she
did cook the day before, but had then to eat the same dish over and over (lines 1, 3). Since
nothing comes from the other participants at this point (cf. the silence in line 4), Maria
takes the ﬂoor again to assess the situation herself (line 5). Now Ourania, instead of
commenting on Maria’s description or assessment, announces that ‘we’ will be eating at
Vangelis’ mother.
22
Actually, since the speaker herself was involved in that eating, this question that refers to a past
action, in contrast to planning an action as in extract (1), only makes sense if she cannot remember the
details of that action, or, alternatively and/or additionally, if she wants to stress the ‘togetherness’
between herself and somebody else as opposed to Maria (cf. the discussion with respect to extract (3)
below from the same conversation as extract (2)).
23
In other words, emeı́B makes explicit what is implicitly available through the context: given that the
previous speaker has just mentioned what she ate, a question without emeı́B would have otherwise made
little sense. The same holds for extract (1).
Collective aspects of subjectivity 45
Extract (3): 4.2 Cooking for one
Again, as in the previous examples, Ourania’s turn with emeı́B appears at a point in the
conversation where assessing or commenting on the preceding turn would not have been out of
place; rather than closing the cooking-for-one-is-no-fun sequence, Ourania initiates a new
sequence which, though related to eating, leaves Maria’s experience aside. Ourania not only
projects into the future (rather than referring to Maria’s past action), but also makes it clear –
through the use of emeı́B – that the collective subject marked on the verb form does not include
Maria. In other words, the use of emeı́B marks this delineation of a collective subject that consists
of a subset of the participants, excluding the addressee and juxtaposing the ‘togetherness’ of the
speaker and her ﬁancé to Maria’s being alone.
3.1.3. Launching a narrative. The last type of turns with emeı́B initiating a sequence in my data
is turns that launch a narrative. Extract (4) is from an episode in which one of the
participants, Yannis, who had been working abroad for a while, is asked whether he had heard
about the train that was stuck in snow (in the region of Greece he comes from). Yannis
replies that it was his German colleagues who told him about the train incident, providing
details of the rather peculiar situation, which amuse the others (not shown below). Then,
Amalia (line 1), in partial overlap with Niki, assesses the weather conditions at the time the
train incident took place, and asks for conﬁrmation (cf. the tag question via the particle e?).
Rather than replying, and after a short silence, Niki herself starts telling a story that took
place in the same time interval (line 4).
46 Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou
Extract (4): 19.5 Train stuck in snow
Niki’s turn with emeı́B in TCU-initial position appears at a point (line 4) where replying to the
request for conﬁrmation (cf. line 1) would be expected. This initial turn of the narrative with the
ﬁrst person plural subject pronoun introduces a new collective subject encompassing the teller
herself and her brother (to the exclusion of the other participants). As a matter of fact, one could
not start a story without accomplishing this referential shift through the subject pronoun or,
alternatively, without employing a couple of other, quite speciﬁc, devices. However, this
collective subject is not ‘‘OLD, but not GIVEN information’’ (capitals in the original) nor is it the
‘‘main character’’ of the story, as Duranti (1984, p. 279; cf. also e.g. pp. 279, 286, 294) would
argue. As it turns out later on in the narrative, the main character of the story is the teller herself.
3.1.4. Summary. In my data, turns with the pronoun emeı́B that initiate a sequence are either ﬁrst
pair parts of particular types, i.e. questions and announcements, or turns that launch (or resume) a
narrative. The sequence thus initiated is never a fully autonomous one, e.g. like opening a new
conversation, but always relates to prior sequences.
More speciﬁcally, in the cases examined here, turns with emeı́B appear at points where closure
of the on-going sequence would be called for. The subject pronoun always holds TCU-initial
position and, if the turn is a multi-TCU one, it always occurs in the ﬁrst TCU, strongly indicating
that the collective subject is topicalized. In these cases, the free-standing pronoun always refers to
a subset of the participants, including of course the current speaker, but excluding the previous
speaker, who may not be addressed at all by the turn containing emeı́B, as in extract (1). Moreover,
Collective aspects of subjectivity 47
the subject pronoun itself cannot be omitted in these contexts, otherwise the ﬁrst person plural
marked on the verb form would encompass ALL participants, which is not the case – a fact also
available through the context; in other words, the pronoun makes linguistically explicit what is
implicit in the context. The content of turns with emeı́B involves speciﬁc actions (planning or
reporting) that relate to the activity or state of things mentioned in the prior sequence, but the new
sequence entails a subtopic shift in which the referential shift to the collective subject, as the agent
of such actions plays a crucial role. So, what emeı́B seems to be doing is to mark the subject –
already indicated by the verb form – as new, either by redeﬁning an already existing plural (cf. e.g.
extract (1)) or by introducing a new one (cf. extract (2)), excluding in all cases the previous
speaker from this collective subject. While the dimension of contrast may be relevant in certain
cases (cf. (1)), it becomes less important in (2), (3) and (4), in diminishing order.
Turns with the pronoun emeı́B that initiate a sequence may also occur after closure of an on-
going sequence has been accomplished (not examined here). These include e.g. questions that
resume an open sequence after a digression and turns that continue a narrative that has been
interrupted. In such cases, emeı́B foregrounds a collective subject that had been deﬁned/constituted
earlier in the conversation, i.e. it brings back an already existing plural that had gone out of focus.
It should also be noted that in the case of announcements or narratives the informational import of
the utterance encompasses, additionally, what is predicated of the subject.
3.2. Eleı́1 in sequence-continuing turns
In this section we will be looking at non-initial turns. Three types of turns with emeı́B that
continue a sequence are encountered in my data: second pair parts to disagreements, replies to
questions and turns providing an explication or account.
3.2.1. Disagreements. I would like to start with an instance of disagreement with a claim. In extract
(5), Thanos reacts to Petros’ statement about the existence of certain standards (which taxi drivers
do not respect) with a three-TCU turn (lines 6, 7). Thanos’ turn, almost in full overlap with Petros’,
ﬁrst challenges the preceding turn by requesting that Petros specify what these standards are (ﬁrst
and second TCU). But, then, Thanos cuts off his second TCU and repairs it in the third one, this
time targeting his disagreement at Petros’ impersonal formulation ‘there are some standards’.
Extract (5): 1.1 Taxi drivers
48 Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou
Thanos’ third TCU (lines 6–7), with emeı́B in initial position, juxtaposes a collective agent
(marked on the verb form) to the ‘agentless’ existence of standards as implied by Petros (lines 1, 3),
and emphasizes this through the explicit employment of the pronoun (note also the emphatic stress
on emeı́B). The property of agency, underscored through emeı́B, clumps together the speaker and the
other participants, including the addressee, into a general – and undisputed – category of (human)
entities, implicating further properties, e.g. responsibility, which arise from belonging to the cate-
gory of agents. If the subject pronoun were to be omitted, the emphasis would have to be achieved by
other means – provided that one would want to express the same pragmatic meaning. Note that
Thanos’ disalignment with Petros is already established through the ﬁrst two TCUs of his turn.
While in the example above the disagreement was targeted at the purported agentless state of
affairs (third TCU, lines 6–7), in other cases it may concern the ascription (or non-ascription) of
an action (or the speciﬁcs thereof) to speaker and addressee or may target not the claim itself but
an underlying assumption. Consider extract (6) from an episode in which the four participants
discuss the way women are. Among other properties, Yorgos ascribes sudden and unmotivated
changes of mood to women. In lines 1–7, he attempts to account for women’s ‘cyclothymic’
personality by associating this to their hormones and characterizing it as ‘natural’. Dimosthenis
reacts to this account not by challenging the causality between hormones and moods but the
underlying assumption that only women have hormones, with a two-TCU question containing the
explicit presence of emeı́B (line 8).
Extract (6): 28.3 The way women are
Collective aspects of subjectivity 49
Dimosthenis, taking for granted that both he and his addressee belong to the category of men,
uses the speciﬁc form of disagreeing rhetorical questions to implicate that men, too, have
hormones, namely, testosterone.24
However, he does not explicitly employ the formulation ‘men’;
instead, he uses the ﬁrst person plural marked on the verb form plus the subject pronoun emeı́B.
Had he used the verb form alone, the collective subject, i.e. the category of men, might have been
misunderstood to encompass all participants. Given, though, that one of the participants is a
woman, Dimosthenis employs emeı́B to delimit the relevant subset of participants, consisting of
himself and the previous speaker.
3.2.2. Replies to questions. Second pair parts to questions are informed by the type of question
that the ﬁrst pair part is, i.e. yes/no-questions or different kinds of wh-questions. Moreover, and
more crucially, the appearance of a collective subject including the speaker in the reply may be
invited by the question itself (cf. also Lerner, 1993). Therefore, in examining the subject pronoun
emeı́B in second pair parts to questions, we have to distinguish between questions that are
formulated in the second – or even ﬁrst – person plural and all others. For space reasons, I will
conﬁne the examination here to second pair parts to questions formulated in the second person
plural, which invite the use of ﬁrst person plural in the second pair part, i.e. a ‘we’ that excludes
the speaker of the ﬁrst pair part.25
However, it should be noted that with the exception of replies to
who-questions, i.e. where the subject pronoun emeı́B provides the referential information
requested, all other turns with emeı́B are dispreferred second pair parts or index some kind of
problem.
24
Interestingly, this challenge is not countered by Yorgos himself, to whom it was actually addressed.
Instead, it is Manos who ﬁrst indicates that he cannot say much, and then Aphroditi, who points out the
paucity of men’s hormones as compared to those of women, thus aligning with Yorgos.
25
Cf. also Sacks (1995, vol. I, p. 572).
50 Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou
The ﬁrst example comes from an episode in which two of the participants, Mara and
Rosa, inquire about the details of a computer game that two other participants, Linos and
Stathis, have been playing. In extract (7), Mara addresses a series of questions to Linos,
formulated in the second person plural (lines 1, 3–4). Linos’ turn (line 5) provides in the ﬁrst
TCU a negative answer to Mara’s yes/no-question in line 4, while in the second, formulated
in the ﬁrst person plural and using emeı́B, the actual contribution of the two players is
provided/speciﬁed. Linos’ second TCU with emeı́B in initial position indicates a different
action taken by the speaker and his co-player than the one suggested by the question itself; it
thus claims a different kind of agency (and hence a different responsibility). Note that the
dispreference is established by the ﬁrst TCU, which provides a negative answer to the
question.
Extract (7): 6.2 Computer game #1
Collective aspects of subjectivity 51
Similarly, Mara’s yes/no-questions (lines 6–7), this time formulated in the second person
singular, ﬁrst receives a ‘no’ as an answer (line 8) and then, in overlap with Mara’s attempt to
explicate her previous questions, a multi-TCU turn (lines 10, 12) in which the free-standing
pronoun is employed in three TCUs in TCU-initial position.
In my data, there is another type of second pair parts to questions, which are not, strictly
speaking, dispreferred, but express some disalignment with the previous speaker. In extract (8),
Elli addresses three questions to Mary (lines 1, 3–4) regarding the latter’s honeymoon trip. The
ﬁrst two questions refer to Mary and her ﬁancé, as they are formulated in the second person plural;
the third one suggests two possible answers to the second question. Mary does not immediately
provide a reply to this third question (note the silence in line 5 and the turn initial delay in line 6,
both indicating that the response may not be a preferred one). While her answer (line 6) shows
some signs of alignment with the previous speaker – Mary adopts, e.g., Elli’s formulation (Gia
póte léte, literally: ‘For when are you considering’) adjusted for the ﬁrst person plural (léme gia,
literally: ‘we are considering for’) – it does not align with the options offered by Elli. And this is
signalled by the subject pronoun emeı́B in TCU-initial position, although in this case the verb form
alone would have been both referentially and interactionally adequate.
Extract (8): 14.7 Going on a honeymoon trip
52 Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou
Mary’s response in line 6 does not reject Elli’s suggested course of action outright; rather,
she opts out of the expected answer to Elli’s question. While the collective subject marked
on the verb forms (léme ‘we are considering’, na páme ‘that we go’) is dictated by the
question itself, the use of emeı́B is not. The subject pronoun reinforces Mary, because it
indicates that Mary is not alone in her divergent position from Elli, but shares this decision
with her ﬁancé.
3.2.3. Providing an account or explication. The subject pronoun emeı́B also features in the
context of providing accounts or explications either of a preceding TCU by the same speaker or
of a turn by the same/other speaker. In these cases, there are commonly lexical and/or prosodic
indications, e.g. giatı́ (‘because’), autȯ ennoȯ (‘this is what I mean’) or acceleration in
articulating the TCU with emeı́B, which show that an explication for the preceding TCU or turn
is forthcoming. In the examples presented below, the account (or explication) refers to the
speaker’s own behaviour; but it may also apply to a preceding turn by a different speaker (with
whom the current speaker agrees), in which case the subject pronoun emeı́B appears in the ﬁrst
TCU of the reacting turn.
Extract (9) is from an episode in which Aleka has been telling Anna about a one-day
trip that she and her husband took together with others by car; at one point, Anna asks
whether they had faced any problems with the snow, whereupon Aleka starts telling of a
number of problems. Among these was the fact that one of the drivers was rather inex-
perienced (lines 1–13).
Extract (9): 8.3 Inexperienced driver
Collective aspects of subjectivity 53
Aleka closes her narrative by recapitulating that Konstantina does not have much driving
experience and that she was under strain about driving on that particular day (line 13). After the
silence in line 15, though, Aleka goes on to justify her assessment – in overlap with Polychronis’
contribution in the same direction – by mentioning that she (being a ‘girl’) was in the car that
Konstantina drove after the group split up into two (girls and boys) (lines 16, 18); this justiﬁcation
is acknowledged by Anna in line 19. The subject pronoun employed by Aleka in line 18
introduces a new collective subject that excludes the addressee (but also the other participant,
Polychronis).
The next extract illustrates a two-TCU turn, the ﬁrst of which entails the actual reaction to the
preceding turn, while the second provides the account. In extract (10), Diogenes and Marios,
visiting Athina and Glykeria, express their admiration (lines 1 and 4–5) for the sofas that the two
sisters have.
54 Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou
Extract (10): 12.4 Superb sofas
Marios’ positive assessment of the sofas is ﬁrst implicitly countered by Glykeria (line 7). Then
Athina reacts to Marios’ assessment with a two-TCU turn (line 9): the ﬁrst expresses her surprise
(therefore indicating that she does not share the positive assessment of her friends – eventually, an
instance of disalignment with the previous speaker); the second TCU starts to account for her
surprise in the ﬁrst TCU, by indicating the divergent considerations which she and her sister (the
new collective subject introduced by emeı́B in TCU-initial position) had. These considerations are
spelled out ﬁrst by Glykeria (line 10: ‘Replacing them (right away)’) and then by Athina herself
(line 12: replacing it by and by). The subject pronoun emeı́B deﬁnes a collective subject, the
proprietors of the sofas, as a subset of the participants excluding the addressees (who expressed
their liking for the sofas).
3.2.4. Summary. In all the cases that we examined, emeı́B appears in TCU-initial position (except
in accounts preceded by a ‘because’-clause, as in extract (9)); however, its role is varying,
depending on what exactly the turn is a second pair part to.
Collective aspects of subjectivity 55
In the case of disagreements (3.2.1), the speaker draws on shared ground (be it knowledge or
experience) with the addressee to refute a claim or an underlying assumption of the claim that the
addressee has made. The turn itself does not add new information to this; rather, the speaker
brings certain properties or experiences into focus, which both s/he and the addressee along with
eventually other participants and third parties share through their membership into those
categories (cf. extracts (5) and (6)). It is these properties that the ﬁrst pair part (i.e. the claim)
seems to ignore or contest (implicitly or explicitly). In other words, the commonality of
membership to the same category is invoked through emeı́B in order to refute a claim or its
assumptions. While there may be emphasis (or even contrast) on the subject through the pronoun,
as in (5), this would not be the case in (6) (i.e. men, too, like women, have hormones).
In the case of second pair parts – all of them non-preferred – to questions formulated in the
second person plural (3.2.2), the collective subject is introduced by the ﬁrst pair part, i.e. the
question itself, and the second pair part just takes it over, adjusting it to the ﬁrst person plural.
Consequently, if the question is in the second person plural, the collective subject that appears in
the answer does not include the speaker of the ﬁrst pair part, i.e. the addressee of the answer.
Therefore, the informational import of the answer does not relate to the subject itself but to what is
predicated of it, namely a speciﬁc action. The subject pronoun emeı́B, always in TCU-initial
position, seems to index some problem at different levels, e.g., by ascribing agency, and hence
responsibility, to this collective subject (extract (7)) or by pointing to a different course of action/
decision taken by this collective subject (extract (8)). In all instances, though, what is signalled is
a differing position or stance from the one that the addressee seems – qua his/her ﬁrst pair part, i.e.
the question – to hold.26
Notice again that one could hardly make a case for emphasis on the
subject or for contrasting the subject with a previously mentioned one.
In the two cases of account/explication that we examined (3.2.3), the speaker provides additional
information with which she justiﬁes her previous turn (extract (9)) or TCU (extract (10)). The
informational import of the turn or TCU containing emeı́B includes both the collective subject marked
with the subject pronoun as well as what is predicated of this subject. In this case, the collective
subject may include other participants besides the speaker (cf. extract (10)), but excludes the
addressee, who was also the previous speaker. In both cases, the speakers present themselves as part
of group that has the authority/legitimacy (either as eye witnesses to an event, extract (9), or as
proprietors of the sofas, extract (10)) to present the position expressed in the preceding turn or TCU.
3.3. Eleı́1 in sequence-closing turns/sequences
In sequence-closing turns or sequences only a few instances of turns containing emeı́B were
encountered in my data.
26
The only exception to this is a case where the same speaker both asks and replies to a question
formulated in the ﬁrst person plural (cf. extract (2)), and where the notion of disalignment with one’s
self would be a contradiction in terms.
56 Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou
3.3.1. Rhetorical questions. Extract (11) illustrates a question containing emeı́B that is placed
within a sequence-closing sequence. Stathis, Rosa’s husband, tells the other participants about a
four-hour car drive during which his mother-in-law kept reciting excerpts from a Greek tragedy
(lines 1–8). Stathis’ story, with comments by the others, goes on for more than 30 lines omitted
here. Then, Mara, Rosa’s sister, reports on a similar experience with her mother during the latter’s
visit to Mara’s home (lines 41–42), followed by a series of assessments (lines 43–55, omitted
here) the last of which refers to the old lady’s determination to recollect the whole of Sophocles’
Antigone (lines 56–57). After a short silence (line 60), Stathis, the main contributor to the
narrative, draws the ﬁnal line to the sequence by quickly asking the (rhetorical) question with
emeı́B ‘What have we done to deserve this?’.
Extract (11): 6.6 Grandma’s passion for Antigone
Collective aspects of subjectivity 57
Here emeı́B introduces a new collective subject comprising all the participants, who have been
contributing to the narrative of Grandma’s passion for Antigone, and perhaps everybody else, who
would potentially become Grandma’s audience, except of course for Grandma herself. Given that
the question expects no answer (rhetorical) nor does it get one, its implication is that ‘We have
done nothing to deserve this’, which can be held to be obvious to all participants.
3.3.2. Aphoristic aftermaths. In the next extract, taken from a later phase of the same
conversation as extract (5), after two stories about non-smoking countries, told by other members
of the group, Nefeli – a smoker herself – initiates the closing of the long sequence on smoking
with an aphoristic aftermath in which she expresses her pity for smokers (lines 21, 23, 26, 28–29).
Extract (12): 1.2 Sympathizing with smokers
58 Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou
Using emeı́B in line 21, Nefeli not only sympathizes with smokers but also pities herself, since
she subsumes herself under the general category of smokers. At the same time, in the second and
third TCU of the same turn, she takes up the topic (taxi drivers) they had been discussing before
(cf. extract (7)), thus providing a closure for both topics – at least for the time being, as the topic
on taxi drivers is reopened later on.
3.3.3. Summary. Turns with emeı́B appearing in the closing part of a sequence seem to summarize
the consensus spirit of the preceding discussion e.g. with a rhetorical question (extract (11)) or
with an aphoristic aftermath (extract (12)). The subject pronoun is employed to delineate a
collective subject that extends beyond the group of participants (e.g. all persons that are not the
person(s) the participants had been talking about) and may comprise a general category (e.g.
smokers with whom the speaker identiﬁes). However, the turn itself has little or no informational
import, since both the referent (the collective subject) and what is predicated of it have been
available to all participants during the discussion – not so much as a group of listable members but
Collective aspects of subjectivity 59
as a category comprising the speaker and everybody else who is not, e.g., Grandma (extract (11))
or a non-smoker (extract (12)). By deploying emeı́B the speaker enhances the position implicated in
the turn with the subject pronoun: it’s not just one person, the speaker, but many, who e.g. suffer
the negative effects of Grandma’s passion for Antigone or the prohibition of smoking.
4. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS
Collective subjectivity (the ‘we’), as opposed to individual subjectivity (the ‘I’), is not given or
stable, but has to be constantly – implicitly or explicitly – delineated and negotiated, due to the
referential ﬂexibility, ambiguity, and ﬂuidity that the ‘non-I’ within the ‘we’ lends to this
collective subject. Focusing on Modern Greek, a zero-subject language in which the subject is
unambiguously marked on the verb form, the point of departure for the present study was the
question: under what circumstances does a speaker who chooses to self-refer collectively deploy
not only the verb form, but also the free-standing pronoun emeı́B (‘we’)? The aim of the chapter
was to investigate what else – besides indexing the collective subject redundantly – this pronoun
contributes to the construction of the collective subject, and thus, implicitly, to capture the ‘non-
referential’ meaning of the free-standing pronoun.
Taking into account the great diversity of sentential and sequential contexts, in which the
pronoun emeı́B appears in my conversational data, and adopting a Conversation Analysis stance,
according to which ‘‘[v]irtually everything in talk-in-interaction is the product of both position
and composition –i.e., not only what is said or done (composition), but also where it is said or
done’’ (Schegloff, 2008, p. 31), the sequential environments of turns with emeı́B were ﬁrst
established. As it was shown, the appearance of such turns is not arbitrary, but subjected to
sequential restrictions. More speciﬁcally, turns with emeı́B come forth in my data as
(a) ﬁrst pair parts of particular types (i.e. questions, announcements, turns that initiate or
resume a narrative);
(b) second pair parts that either diverge from the preferred ones (i.e. disagreements with a
claim, or its underlying assumptions, and non-preferred answers to non-who-questions) or
provide accounts/explications of a preceding turn (this category also includes other non-
initial turns in which a non-initial TCU provides accounts/explications of a preceding
TCU);
(c) part of a sequence that closes an extended sequence.
Given the fact that even turns of the ﬁrst type, i.e., ﬁrst pair parts, appear either at a point where
closure of the on-going sequence would be called for or after the on-going sequence has been
closed, we may conclude that turns with emeı́B never open a conversation or a fully autonomous
sequence; rather, what they can, at best, do is to initiate a sub-sequence within a larger sequence.
60 Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou
This, in turn, suggests that the use of emeı́B always requires an already established context with
whatever this implies, e.g. speciﬁc conversational roles and activities, a relevant set of referents,
certain shared assumptions, and so on. Moreover, given that in these environments, emeı́B always
retains a collective reference, which includes the speaker, we can conclude that the presence of the
free-standing pronoun conﬁnes the otherwise potential referential ﬂexibility and referential
ambiguity that the ﬁrst person plural might have.
Looking then more closely at the distribution of turns with emeı́B in conversations among
friends and relatives, it was shown that this subject pronoun may be doing a number of things
besides collective self-reference. In particular, emeı́B can mark
(1) the ‘newness’ of the collective subject either when introduced for the ﬁrst time by the ﬁrst
person plural verb form or when the ﬁrst person plural verb form actually implies a
redeﬁnition of a previously available collective subject (3.1.1., 3.1.2, 3.1.3); or,
alternatively, it can mark the foregrounding of a collective subject that had been
constituted earlier in the conversation;
(2) the exclusion of others (e.g. of the previous speaker (3.1.1., 3.1.2, 3.1.3), of the person
talked about (3.3.1), of the addressee (3.2.2, 3.2.3)) or the inclusion of others (e.g. the
addressee (3.2.1)), other participants and third parties (3.3.2);
(3) the speaker’s disalignment with the addressee (3.2.1, 3.2.2) on different levels (content or
interaction) or the speaker’s alignment with the addressee(s) (3.3).
Thus, the use of the free-standing emeı́B not only renders issues of referential ﬂexibility and
ambiguity irrelevant, but also contributes to the reduction of the ﬂuidity of the ﬁrst person plural
along several cognitive and interactional dimensions concerning the informational structure of the
utterance (specifying the role of the collective subject in this structure), the composition of the
group or collectivity referred to (clarifying who belongs to it and who doesn’t), the speaker’s
positioning towards what the addressee says or does (indexing detachment/distancing),
irrespective of whether the addressee is included in or excluded from the collective subject. As
the discussion above has shown, these dimensions may be intersecting; however, the salience of
each dimension varies depending on the sequential environment of the turn containing emeı́B. It is
because of this dynamic interplay between sequential position and these cognitive/interactional
dimensions that the use of the free-standing ﬁrst person plural pronoun does not always entail ‘‘a
bond with [the speaker’s] interlocutors’’ (Mühlhäusler & Harré, 1990, p. 178), and renders
collectivity not coterminous with solidarity.
Opening up the scope a bit, I would maintain that the non-referential meaning of emeı́B (or other
free-standing pronouns for that matter) cannot be adequately captured by attributing to the
pronoun the role of adding emphasis or contrast to the referent (already sufﬁciently marked on the
verb form), as is traditionally argued. Nor can more recent approaches, some of which (cf. e.g.
Davidson, 1996; Duranti, 1984) also constate the inadequacy of traditional accounts, successfully
Collective aspects of subjectivity 61
explain all the workings of Greek emeı́B. Such approaches are correct in so far as they attempt to
establish a relationship between the free-standing pronoun itself and some aspects of the prior
context, but they fail to both work out all the speciﬁcs of the employment of a certain pronoun
and, at the same time, relate – in a coherent way – the particular usages to a general principle.
While Stewart’s invoking of the Gricean mechanism for conversational implicatures is more
convincing than Davidson’s ‘pragmatic weight’, it does not provide the necessary link to all
contextual contingencies. It is, then, in this sense that Sacks and Schegloff’s preference for
minimization (Sacks & Schegloff, 1979) offers a promising alternative that encompasses both the
generality of Grice’s implicature apparatus and the speciﬁcity of particular functions like those
ascribed to e.g. Spanish pronouns (cf. Davidson, 1996).
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Some of the ideas presented here have been previously articulated in Pavlidou (2007, 2008), as
well as in a talk at UCLA hosted by Manny Schegloff. I would like to thank Manny and all those
who with their comments helped me clarify my arguments. Thanks also go to my research team at
the Institute for Modern Greek Studies (cf. footnote 17) at the Aristotle University of
Thessaloniki, in particular, Chara Kapellidi and Lena Gialabouki for re-transcribing and
scrutinizing the data; to Lena I am also indebted for her contribution to the comprehensibility of
the text (including the data) in English. Last but not least, I would like to thank the two
anonymous referees for their helpful comments.
REFERENCES
Assouline, D. (2010). The emergence of two ﬁrst-person plural pronouns in Haredi Jerusalemite Yiddish.
Journal of Germanic Linguistics, 22, 1–22.
Bazzanella, C. (2009). Noi come meccanismo di intensità. In B. Gili-Fivela & C. Bazzanella (Eds.), Fenomeni
di intensità nell’Italiano parlato (pp. 101–114). Firenze: Cesati.
Benveniste, E. (1971). Problems in general linguistics. (M.E. Meek Trans.). Coral Gables, FL: University of
Miami Press. (Original work published 1966.).
Borthen, K. (2010). On how we interpret plural pronouns. Journal of Pragmatics, 42, 1799–1815.
Bull, P., & Fetzer, A. (2006). Who are we and who are you? The strategic use of forms of address in political
interviews. Text&Talk, 26, 1–35.
Brewer, M., & Gardner, W. (1996). Who is this ‘we’? Levels of collective identity and self-representations.
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 71, 83–93.
Cysouw, M. (2003). The paradigmatic structure of person marking. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
62 Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou
Davidson, B. (1996). ‘Pragmatic weight’ and Spanish subject pronouns: The pragmatic and discourse uses of
tú and yo in spoken Madrid Spanish. Journal of Pragmatics, 26, 543–565.
De Fina, A. (1995). Pronominal choice, identity and solidarity in political discourse. Text, 15, 379–410.
Duranti, A. (1984). The social meaning of subject pronouns in Italian conversation. Text, 4, 277–311.
Eckert, P., & McConnell-Ginet, S. (2003). Language and gender. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Fortanet, I. (2004). The use of ‘we’ in university lectures: Reference and function. English for Speciﬁc
Purposes, 23, 45–66.
Graumann, C. F., & Kallmeyer, W. (Eds.). (2002). Perspective and perspectivization in discourse. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Hacohen, G., & Schegloff, E. (2006). On the preference for minimization in referring to persons: Evidence
from Hebrew conversation. Journal of Pragmatics, 38, 1305–1312.
Helmbrecht, J. (2002). Grammar and function of we. In A. Duszak (Ed.), Us and others: Social identities
across languages, discourses and cultures (pp. 31–49). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Holton, D., Mackridge, P., & Philippaki-Warburton, I. (1997). Greek: A comprehensive grammar of the
Modern Greek language. London: Routledge.
Jefferson, G. (2004). Glossary of transcript symbols with an introduction. In G. Lerner (Ed.), Conversation
analysis: Studies from the ﬁrst generation (pp. 13–31). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kapellidi, Ch. (2004). [in Greek] To omiloún upokeı́meno stZ glossikŹ epikoinonı́a. [The speaking subject’
in linguistic comnmunication]. Unpublished MA thesis. Department of Linguistics, Aristotle
University of Thessaloniki.
Kärkkäinen, E. (2003). Epistemic stance in English conversation. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kuo, C-H. (1999). The use of personal pronouns: Role relationships in scientiﬁc journal articles. English for
Speciﬁc Purposes, 18, 121–138.
Leoudi, K. (2005). H antidiastaltikŹ wrŹsZ tZB antonumı́aB egó se yésZ upokeiménou: PragmatologikŹ
proséggisZ. [The contrastive use of the pronoun ‘I’ in subject position: A pragmatic approach].
Unpublished MA thesis. Department of Linguistics, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki.
Lerner, G. H. (1993). Collectivities in action: Establishing the relevance of conjoined participation in
conversation. Text, 13, 213–245.
Lerner, G. H., & Kitzinger, C. (2007). Extraction and aggregation in the repair of individual and collective
self-reference. Discourse Studies, 9, 526–557.
Lyons, J. (1982). Deixis and subjectivity: Loquor ergo sum? In R. Jarvella & W. Klein (Eds.), Speech, place
and action: Studies in deixis and related topics (pp. 101–124). New York, NY: Wiley.
Mao, L. R. (1996). Chinese ﬁrst person pronoun and social implicature. Journal of Asian Paciﬁc
Communication, 7, 106–128.
Margutti, P. (2007). Genitori italiani, sportive austrialiani, cuochi lucani: Descrivere sé e gli altri in categorie di
appartenenza. In A. Ciliberti (Ed.), La construzione interazionale di identità: Repertori linguistici e
pratiche discorsive degli Italiani in Austrália (pp. 139–175). Milano: FrancoAngeli.
Mühlhäusler, P., & Harré, R. (1990). Pronouns and people. Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
Pavlidou, Th.-S. (2007). ‘We are the salt of the earth’: Constructing (gendered) collectivities. Paper presented
at the 10th IPrA Conference, Göteborg.
Pavlidou, Th.-S. (2008). Emeı́B kai Z sunomiliakŹ sugkrótZsZ (émfulon) sullogikotŹton. [‘We’ and
the discursive construction of (gendered) collectivities]. In M. Theodoropoulou (Ed.), Light and
warmth: In memory of A.-PH. Christidis (pp. 437–453). Thessaloniki: Center for the Greek Language.
Pavlidou, Th.-S., & Kapellidi, Ch. (2005). Speaking subjects, gendered stances. Paper presented at the 9th
International Pragmatics Conference, Riva del Garda.
Collective aspects of subjectivity 63
Pyykkö, R. (2002). Who is ‘us’ in Russian political discourse. In A. Duszak (Ed.), Us and others: Social
identities across languages, discourses and cultures (pp. 234–238). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Sacks, H. (1995). Lectures on conversation (Vols. I and II). In G, Jefferson (Ed.). Cambridge, MA: Blackwell.
Sacks, H., & Schegloff, E. (1979). Two preferences in the organization of reference to persons in conver-
sation and their interaction. In G. Psathas (Ed.), Everyday language: Studies in ethnomethodology
(pp. 15–21). New York, NY: Irvington.
Schegloff, E. (2007). Sequence organization in interaction: A primer in conversation analysis. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Schegloff, E. (2008). A different ‘uh(m)’: The reason-for-the-call as the locus of order. Studies in Greek
Linguistics, 28, 30–56.
Scheibman, J. (2002). Point of view and grammar. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Scheibmann, J. (2004). Inclusive and exclusive patterning of the English ﬁrst person plural: Evidence from
conversation. In M. Achard & S. Kemmer (Eds.), Language, culture, and mind (pp. 377–396).
Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications.
Siewierska, A. (2004). Person. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Skarzynska, K. (2002). We and they in Polish political discourse. In A. Duszak (Ed.), Us and others: Social
identities across language, discourses and cultures (pp. 249–264). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Stein, D., & Wright, S. (Eds.). (1995). Subjectivity and subjectiﬁcation. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Stewart, M. (2001). Pronouns of power and solidarity: The case of Spanish ﬁrst person plural nosotros.
Multilingua, 20, 155–169.
Stewart, M. (2003). ‘Pragmatic weight’ and face: Pronominal presence and the case of the Spanish second
person singular subject pronoun tú. Journal of Pragmatics, 35, 191–206.
Temmerman, M. (2008). ‘Today we are all Danes’: Argumentative meaning of the 1st and 2nd person
pronouns in newspaper editorials on the Muhamad cartoons. L’Analisi Linguistica e Letteraria (XVI,
289–303) (Special Issue: Word meaning in argumentative dialogue).
Tzartzanos, A. (1991). NeoellZnikŹ súntaxiB (tZB koinŹB dZmotikŹB) Au [Modern Greek syntax (of common
demotic), Vol. 1]. Reprint of the 2nd ed. in 1946 (1st ed. in 1928). Thessaloniki: Kyriakidis Bros.
Wales, K. (1996). Personal pronouns in present-day English. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
64 Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou
APPENDIX: TRANSCRIPTION SYMBOLS
The data are transcribed, with minor modiﬁcations, according to the standard Conversation
Analysis transcription conventions (cf. e.g. Jefferson, 2004; Schegloff, 2007).
[ overlap onset
[
] overlap end
]
¼ latching
(0.8) silence in tenths of a second
(.) micro-pause (less than 0.5 second)
. falling/ﬁnal intonation
? rising intonation
, continuing/non-ﬁnal intonation
¿ a rise stronger than a comma but weaker than a question mark
: prolongation or stretching of the sound
word emphasis (increased loudness or higher pitch)
WOrd especially loud talk
WOrd emphasized loud talk
1 talk that is markedly quiet or soft
- cut-off or interruption
_: prolongation of the preceding sound and a falling intonation contour.
: prolongation of the preceding sound and a rising intonation contour.
m sharp intonation rise
k sharp intonation falls
Wxxxo compressed or rushed talk
oxxxW slowed or drawn out talk
(h) aspiration inside word boundaries
.h inhalation
((laughs)) meta-linguistic, para-linguistic and non-conversational descriptions
( . . . ) no hearing
(word) a likely possibility of what was said.
(word)/(board) alternative hearings of the same strip of talk
[ . . . ] omitted talk
Collective aspects of subjectivity 65
This page intentionally left blank
Subjectivity in Language and in Discourse
Edited by Nicole Baumgarten, Inke Du Bois and Juliane House
r 2012 by Emerald Group Publishing Limited. All rights reserved.
4
OBJECTIVIZING SUBJECTIVITY: PERSON DEIXIS
AND THE CONSTITUTION OF DIALOGIC IDENTITY
(WITH AN EXAMPLE OF GERMAN DISCOURSE DATA)
Gabriele Diewald and Marijana Kresić
The simplicity of the grammatical pronominal paradigms belies the complexity of their use.
Malone (2005, p. 44)
The term ‘subjectivity’ refers to the way in which natural languages, in their structure and their
normal manner of operation, provide for the locutionary agent’s expression of himself and of his
attitudes and beliefs. Lyons (1982, p. 102)
1. INTRODUCTION
We suggest that the constitution and management of dialogic identity (in the sense of
temporary, potentially persistent discourse roles) is essentially based on the use of person deixis.
A method of analysis for describing this process is suggested and illustrated by a segment of
German discourse.
The chapter is structured as follows: The ﬁrst part is devoted to the explication of our basic
concept of dialogic identity, the category our analysis is ultimately interested in (Section 2). After
an introduction of the notions of subjectivity and objectivity used here (Section 3), the function of
the category person is introduced (Section 4) and related to the notion of positioning (Section 5).
It is shown that the category of person in discourse is central to the construction of discourse
identity, and the procedure of analysing it is laid out. Section 6 is devoted to the analysis of an
exemplary segment of spoken dialogue. The chapter concludes with a summary of the theoretical
argumentation and the analysis and with some hypotheses concerning the cross-linguistic validity
of the presented concepts (Section 7).
2. IDENTITY – DIALOGIC IDENTITY
Before analysing the role of person deixis in objectivizing subjectivity, the central underlying
concepts of identity, dialogic identity and deictic identity need to be explained.
We deﬁne identity as a phenomenon which is ﬂexible with regard to its features and its scope,
and which is constructed by interlocutors in communicative processes, i.e., in sign-based
interaction (cf. Kresić, 2006, for an extensive treatment). These processes encompass both
dialogic and narrative forms of communication. Our conception of identity constitution as a sign-
based process is motivated by the following considerations: Personal and social identities are
constituted primarily in social interaction with signiﬁcant others on the basis of the usage of signs.
The relevant sign systems include language, images and symbols. These complex sign systems are
the elementary starting point for the study of identity (cf. Kresić, 2006). Sign systems therefore are
no neutral instruments of information transmission, but they are used by the participants of a
communicative situation to construct their currently activated identity.
Our general concept of identity thus refers to a person’s semiotically acknowledged
characteristics that are biographically more or less stable and that are based upon linguistic,
speciﬁcally deictic, processes. The details of the latter will be analysed in detail in the following
sections of this paper.
With respect to identity in general, we suggest to distinguish between personal or individual
processes on the one hand and social or collective processes of identity construction on the other
hand. Collective identities can be constituted on occasions such as the group discussion analysed
in Section 6, in which the participants refer to history as a collectively relevant past. Generally
speaking, collective identity is salient whenever identity is addressed in the sense of belonging to
one or more collectives or groups. The case of multiple membership is particularly interesting
because of the possibility of conﬂicting identity attributions.
However, the focus of our considerations is not on biographically stable identity features, but
on temporary, constantly changing roles and potentially persistent positions of participants in
ongoing discourse. In this context, the notions of dialogic identity, identity predications and
deictic identity are essential. A ﬁrst sketch of these terms will be presented here, and a more
precise deﬁnition follows in Sections 3 and 4.
Dialogic identity refers to a current, instable partial identity in the frame of an interaction,
which is constituted by the encoding of the deictic identity in combination with identity
predications. An important factor in this process is the speciﬁc pragmatic function of the role
68 Gabriele Diewald and Marijana Kresić
variables, i.e. linguistic elements referring to the two communicative roles of speaker and hearer
(Braunmüller, 1977, p. 23; see also Section 4). This function, which is the basic function of the
grammatical category of person, consists of the explication of the subjective anchoring of the
utterance in the speech situation and its connection to the participants of the communicative
interaction. This act of encoding the dialogue roles in the linguistic string is seen here as an
objectivizing process which establishes the speciﬁc deictic identities of the dialogue partners, i.e.
their current status as dialogue participants in the ongoing communicative act. The deictic identity,
i.e. the status of speaker or hearer linguistically encoded by the role variables, is therefore a
communicative precursor to dialogic identity. The second step in the constitution of dialogic
identity is attaching more complex, semantic units which are constitutive of identity and which we
call identity predicates, to deictic expressions of identity. In other words: Identity predications are
the result of attaching predicates to an interlocutor who has been assigned a deictic identity.
Through adding identity predications to deictic identity expressions, the previous (merely) deictic
identiﬁcation is enriched by more speciﬁc, more stable features, and is transformed into a dialogic
identity. While deictic identity per deﬁnition changes with every turn, dialogic identity may be
kept up over longer stretches of discourse. Under appropriate conditions, the dialogic identity can
transform into temporally more stable forms of identity and self-concepts.
3. SUBJECTIVITY – OBJECTIVITY
During the last decades, several concepts of subjectivity and subjectiﬁcation have been put
forward. Though similar at ﬁrst sight, they are not automatically compatible. Therefore, our usage
of these concepts requires some explanation.
Roughly spoken, in linguistics, there are two theoretical conceptions on subjectivity which
have to be kept distinct. One has been established by Traugott and is primarily concerned with
language change and grammaticalization, the other by Langacker with a cognitive linguistic focus
on perspectivization.
Traugott treats subjectiﬁcation as a particular type of semantic change, and, accordingly,
subjectivity as a particular type of meaning of linguistic items. This notion of subjectivity as a
semantic ﬁeld is deﬁned via the degree of speaker involvement, which is encoded in the linguistic
item, the lexeme. The more speaker involvement an item expresses, the higher is its degree of
subjectivity. Subjectiﬁcation, as the process leading to an increase in subjectivity, produces
meanings ‘‘based in the speaker’s subjective belief state/attitude towards the proposition’’
(Traugott, 1989, p. 35). The following quotes renders the essence of this notion:
Subjectiﬁcation is the semasiological process whereby SP/Ws [speakers/writers] come over time
to develop meanings for Ls [lexemes] that encode or externalize their perspectives and attitudes
Objectivizing subjectivity 69
as constrained by the communicative world of the speech event, rather than by the so-called
‘‘real-world’’ characteristics of the event or situation referred. (Traugott & Dasher, 2002, p. 30)
[S]ubjectiﬁcation typically involves making SP/W attitude explicit. (Traugott & Dasher, 2002,
p. 97)
As an example for subjectiﬁcation understood as the encoding of speaker attitude in lexical
semantics, Traugott points to the development of well-known cases of pejoration such as boor
‘countryman, farmer’ W ‘crude person’ (2003, pp. 633–634).
Langacker, on the other hand, treats subjectiﬁcation as a type of perspective, i.e. as one
alternative in a choice between (more) subjective and (more) objective linguistic representations
of cognitive conceptualizations. In opposition to Traugott’s use of the term, subjectiﬁcation is not
seen as the ‘externalization’ of speaker attitude in the semantic structure of linguistic entities, but
in the process of leaving features of the communicative setting – the ground in Langacker’s
terminology1
– implicit. They remain not only ‘unproﬁled’ (which means not in the focus of
attention), but offstage, i.e. not linguistically encoded at all.
Subjectiﬁcation, for Langacker, is a process of perspectivizing a linguistically rendered event
with respect to its deictic anchoring (the ground). Therefore, subjectiﬁcation has its direct opposite
in objectiﬁcation, which is the process of explicitly marking relevant aspects of the ground (in
putting them onstage or even ‘proﬁling’ them) in the linguistic utterance itself. The deictic centre
of the ground, for Langacker, is not so much associated with the role of the speaker but with the
role of the conceptualizer (which, however, often coincide so that this distinction may be
neglected here). The following quote summarizes his position.
An entity is construed objectively to the extent that it is put onstage as a focused object of
conception. By deﬁnition, an expression’s proﬁle is construed with a high degree of objectivity,
being the focus of attention within its immediate scope. At the opposite end, an offstage
conceptualizer is subjectively construed to the extent that it functions as the subject of conception
without itself being conceived. Maximal subjectivity attaches to a tacit locus of consciousness an
implicit conceptualizing presence that is not itself an object of conception. So deﬁned,
subjectivity/objectivity is a matter of vantage point and role in a viewing relationship.
(Langacker, 1999, p. 297)
In short, subjectiﬁcation and objectiﬁcation are opposite mechanisms of perspectivizing the
relation between the linguistically encoded scene and its communicative setting. With reference to
Langacker (1985), these two options are dubbed subjective viewing arrangement and objective
1
According to Langacker (1999), the term ground refers to ‘‘the speech event, its participants, and its
immediate circumstances such as the time and place of speaking’’ (p. 9).
70 Gabriele Diewald and Marijana Kresić
viewing arrangement.2
An example may clarify how this distinction impacts on linguistic analysis
and description. While the subjective viewing arrangement is represented in the examples under
(1), the objective viewing arrangement is chosen in the ones under (2):
(1) a. Ah, er kommt den Hang herauf.
Ah, he is coming up the hill.
b. Geh weg!
Go away!
(2) a. Ich sehe ihn den Hang heraufkommen.
I see him coming up the hill.
b. Ich ﬁnde, Du solltest weggehen!
I think you should go away!
Though Langacker does not employ the notion of viewing arrangements in later papers where
the notion of ground and its degrees of semiotic expression are central, we ﬁnd the terms useful as
they focus on the actional component of establishing a perspective, and therefore, we will use
them when appropriate.
4. DIALOGUE AND PERSON DEIXIS
Dialogue, i.e. face-to-face-conversation, is known to be the prototype of communicative
situations from which all other modes of communication are derived. It is deﬁned as the free,
mutual exchange of the two primary dialogic roles: the speaker and the hearer (Henne &
Rehbock, 1982, p. 14, see also Clark, 1996, p. 9). Hartung (1987) states that this fundamental
reciprocity of the two perspectives of speaker and hearer is the basic organizational structure of
language, which underlies all its realizations in particular genres. The communicative roles of
speaker and hearer are given without having to be explicitly expressed in the linguistic utterance
(i.e. they may remain maximally subjective in Langacker’s terms). But as soon as they are
expressed, they are encoded in the grammatical category of person. Jakobson states succinctly that
the essence of the category of person is this explicit encoding of the dialogue role (as dialogue
roles) in the linguistic utterance itself. This is expressed in the following quote:
PERSON characterizes the participants of the narrated event with reference to the participants of
the speech event. (Jakobson 1971 [1957], p. 134)
2
Langacker (1985) terms these two settings ‘‘egocentric viewing arrangement’’ and ‘‘optimal viewing
arrangement’’ (p. 121–123).
Objectivizing subjectivity 71
On the basis of earlier work (Diewald, 1991, 2010), we assume that this category – the
category of person – consists of the opposition between ﬁrst person and second person, i.e.
speaker and hearer (while the so-called ‘third’ person is not included in this category, see below).
In German, these two basic dialogue roles are expressed by the person deictics ich (‘I’) and du
(‘you’) and their respective derived forms (e.g. plural wir (‘we’) and ihr (‘you’), the [þ social
distance]-form Sie (‘you’) singular as well as plural). In short: ich (‘I’) denotes the role of the
speaker (encoder, sender), i.e. the person who utters the linguistic entity in which it appears, thus
marking the deictic origo (Bühler, 1982 [1934]). The expression of the second person, du (‘you’)
correlates with the role of the hearer (decoder, recipient), i.e. the person the utterance is addressed
to. Du may apply to many different referents as long as they can be conceptualized as potential
participants of the communication. Jakobson (1971 [1957]), again, expresses this accurately (cf.
also Benveniste, 1966 [1956], p. 252):
Thus ﬁrst person signals the identity of a participant of the narrated event with the performer of
the speech event, and the second person, the identity with the actual or potential undergoer of the
speech event. (p. 133)
In this primary dialogic situation, there is no place for a third role – there is only one deictic
origo, placed in the speaker, and even if there are several hearers, only one can be the next
speaker (choral ‘we’ is a highly marked, derived mode of use, cf. Du Bois, this volume).
Therefore, the so-called ‘third’ person is best treated as a ‘non-person’ which may take any
referent except the two principal communicative roles of speaker and hearer (Benveniste, 1966
[1956], p. 256).
Therefore, we depart from the traditional practice of grammatical description, and instead of a
tripartite paradigm of personal pronouns, we implement a bipartite one, consisting only of
expressions for the two principal and inevitable dialogue roles: the ﬁrst and the second person (or
‘role variables’). This basic paradigm of the grammatical category of person is represented in
Table 4.1 (S ¼ speaker, H ¼ hearer, X ¼ one or several arbitrary, animate entities):
Table 4.1. Role variables in the singular and plural
Categorical value Linguistic form Referent Abbreviation
1SG ich (‘I’) speaker S
1PL wir (‘we’) speaker & X SX
2SG du (‘you’) hearer H
2PL ihr (‘you’) hearer & X HX
72 Gabriele Diewald and Marijana Kresić
The dialogue roles may be modiﬁed and enriched by additional features, most commonly
social distinctions of respect, politeness, and reverence. This does not dissolve the fundamental
opposition of the two primary roles, i.e. each additionally marked form must contain the basic
feature of either speaker or hearer, which also means that they occupy the highest ranks in the
animacy hierarchy, i.e. the human, intentional communicative roles. In German, the common
modiﬁcations of the second person are forms marking [þ social distance], i.e. Sie (‘you’) for the
singular du (‘you’), and Sie (‘you’) for the plural ihr (‘you’).
Beyond other morpho-syntactic peculiarities of the ﬁrst and second person deictics (cf.
Diewald, 1991, pp. 202–237 and Diewald, 2010 for details), one feature is important for the
dialogue analysis to follow. The plural marking of the person distinction is highly deviant from
any other plural marking in nominal forms. The number opposition is irregular, as the number of
dialogue roles cannot exceed two. Thus, true pluralization of ‘I’ and ‘you’ is not possible, as it
always includes referents which cannot be called ‘I’ or ‘you’ presently. In the plural, many
languages express the distinction between inclusive and exclusive forms, with inclusive ‘we’
including the hearer (any other entity) and exclusive ‘we’ excluding the hearer (Grimm, 1866,
pp. 239–240; Seebold, 1984, p. 4.; Du Bois, this volume). In German, this distinction is not
marked in morphology, but as it is often relevant for identity building in discourse, the following
table renders the semantic difference (Table 4.2).
It must be emphasized that the function of both dialogue roles is an obligatorily meta-
communicative function, which among all the signs of a language can only be expressed by the
forms of the person category. First and second person – ‘I’ and ‘you’ – denote the dialogic
communicative setting and nothing else. This reference to the communicative situation makes
them inherently meta-communicative: language about language. As this function cannot be
abstracted away from these forms, they can be called obligatorily meta-communicative. Whenever
the participants of the event spoken of are to be denoted as participants of the speech event, these
forms have to be used, and no other form will fulﬁll exactly this function.
This fact leads to the speciﬁc referential and text-linguistic features of these forms, which are
not shared by any other linguistic item. As ‘I’ and ‘you’ do not refer to ontologically constant
referents, but to the continually and mutually changing referents of the present speaker and the
present hearer, they have to change with every turn change. The consequence of this fact for
textual coherence is that any instance of ‘I’ in a text may be (i) co-referential with the last ‘I’
Table 4.2. Inclusive and exclusive wir
Categorical value Linguistic form Referent Abbreviation
1PL inclusive wir (‘we’) speaker & hearer ( & X) SH (X)
1PL exclusive wir (‘we’) speaker & X SX
Objectivizing subjectivity 73
uttered, or (ii) co-referential with the last ‘you’ uttered, or it may refer (iii) to a referent that does not
appear in the foregoing text or iv) one that is expressed by some other linguistic form (e.g. a third
person pronoun or a nominal expression). In short, within a text, the ﬁrst and second person deictics
neither refer to one constant individual, nor to a constant textual antecedent, but to the ever-changing
distribution of the communicative roles of speaker and hearer (cf. Braunmüller, 1977, p. 23).
Pronouns of the so-called ‘third’ person behave very differently. They undergo syntagmatic
and paradigmatic substitution by demonstrative pronouns, referential noun phrases, or proper
nouns. Some of them (e.g. German er (‘he’) may be used deictically, but their primary mode of
pointing is the text-internal mode (anaphoric and cataphoric)).
Summing up so far, we may state the following. The central function of the category of person
is to denote human beings in their presently activated communicative roles. There is a constant
and essential relation to the act of communication itself. Therefore, the category of person is seen
as a meta-communicative linguistic category, unparalleled by any other item in language. The
referents of person markers are communicatively engaged human entities. These speciﬁc
functions of the ﬁrst and second person deictics account for their structural and semantic
characteristics and justify the restriction to a binary opposition of the category of person.
Relating these ﬁndings to the notions of subjectiﬁcation and objectiﬁcation we may note the
following: Representing a dialogue role by one of the person deictics is an instance of
objectiﬁcation of the ground, and thus an instance of the objective viewing arrangement.
The speciﬁc function of the role variables, i.e. the objectiﬁcation of the subjective anchoring of
that which is spoken of in the speech situation, provides the tool for the constitution of identity in
dialogue. Encoding the dialogue roles represents the deictic identity of the participants in the speech
situation, i.e. their ever-changing status in the ongoing discourse. Deictic identity, therefore, is the
communicative a priori, the local basis, of the constitution of any dialogic or more stable identity.
5. POSITIONING AND THE EXPRESSION OF PERSON IN DISCOURSE
Deictic identity is related to the notion of positioning. The importance of positioning for
identity work in the process of linguistic communication is widely recognized (cf. e.g. Bamberg,
1999, 2005; Lucius-Hoene & Deppermann, 2004, p. 86). Therefore, it is necessary to comment
brieﬂy on this concept. With a focus on oral narratives, Bamberg (2005) points out that
positioning is an analytical construct for investigating ‘‘how humans make sense of themselves
and construct their (and others’) identities’’ (p. 445). Positioning works in two directions:
it orients how characters are situated in space and time [ . . . ] vis-à-vis one another as relational
story agents [ . . . and] simultaneously affects how the teller designs the story in order to deﬁne
social location for himself or herself in the act of telling a narrative to an audience. (p. 446)
74 Gabriele Diewald and Marijana Kresić
Lucius-Hoene and Deppermann (2004) state that
Positioning describes how speakers, with the help of speech acts, constitute themselves as
socially determinable persons, how they construct and claim a ‘position’ for themselves,
communicating how they wish to be seen (self positioning). With the help of speech acts, they
also assign their interlocutors a social position and communicate how they see them (positioning
of the other). The interlocutor can respond to the positioning by accepting or refusing it. On the
basis of such positionings of oneself and of the other, the possibilities to act in a dialogue are
inﬂuenced. (p. 62, translation G.D. & M.K.)
Acts of positioning throw into relief different positions of different partners in that they contrast
different local, emotional and cognitive ‘places’ of the partners, which are mutually attributed to
each other. In this way, the participants become mutually recognizable, i.e. identiﬁable (cf.
Lucius-Hoene & Deppermann, 2004, p. 63). The connection between positioning and notions like
deixis, grounding and footing is obvious, as can be seen from the following quote:
Footing is an interactional phenomenon in which we signal our momentary identity, our
interactional role, not only through language, but often through gaze, gesture, or posture.
(Malone, 2005, p. 46, with reference to earlier work by Goffman, Levinson and others)
While the concept of positioning (or footing) embraces a full range of verbal and nonverbal
domains and is not speciﬁc as to the linguistic means involved, the notion of deictic identity as it is
applied here is much more restricted and focused. It refers to the act of encoding dialogue roles via
role variables, i.e. expressions of the category of person. Deictic identity, thus, reﬂects the primary
dialogic make-up of language, and therefore might be seen as representing the primary type of
positioning and as the starting point and core of any identity work in dialogue. It is this type of
positioning (the encoding of deictic identity) that we are going to investigate in the following,
which means that we concentrate on the linguistic expressions primarily involved in this process.
In our view, this aspect has not received sufﬁcient attention so far.
Lucius-Hoene and Deppermann (2004, p. 222f) mention the function of the category of person
for the constitution of narrative identity, but they treat it as one means among others and do not
discuss it at any length. This reﬂects their general tenor of pointing to the importance of language in
general for the process of positioning and listing some linguistic means and observations, but not
explicitly showing how they work (Lucius-Hoene & Deppermann, 2004, p. 63). Bamberg (1999),
who also subscribes to the claim that language is central to identity work, emphasizes the importance
of local discourse activities for acts of positioning; in his exemplary analysis he focuses on
sequences of speech acts and their basis in the participants’ respective ‘‘moral perspectives’’ (p. 49f).
Malone (2005, pp. 42–76), in contrast, discusses the function of linguistic means for
establishing deictic identity in impressive detail. However, he does so under the traditional label of
Objectivizing subjectivity 75
‘personal pronouns’, including the old tripartite paradigm, and focuses on semantic and
sociolinguistic issues. Furthermore, he adheres to the conviction that linguistic distinctions and
(linguistic features of) grammatical categories are irrelevant or even detrimental to the solution of
the question of identity constitution (pp. 44–46).
We argue that the opposite is the case, and that the basic distinction of the grammatical
category of person in the communicative situation lays the ground for identity work in
dialogue, proving that grammar is deeply rooted in pragmatics. As for the objectiﬁcation of the
dialogue roles, i.e. the encoding of deictic identity, we assume that a thorough analysis of this
category, i.e. a thorough analysis of marking person and of not marking it, as well as marking
of ‘entity-except-person’ (‘non-person’) and of not marking it, is an essential component of any
investigation into this topic. That is, we suggest that the essential function of the objectiﬁcation
of dialogue roles in the utterance (i.e. of marking the deictic identity) is to build the anchoring
point for the establishment of dialogue identities. With these assumptions, our basic claims can
be summarized as follows:
(1) The constitution of deictic identity – the turn-speciﬁc local relation to the primary
dialogue roles of speaker and hearer – is achieved through the objectiﬁcation of the
dialogue roles via person deictics (role variables). The speciﬁc realization of deictic
identity is dependent on text types.
(2) The encoding of deictic identity is the precondition for the establishment of more
complex identities (dialogic identities, narrative identities). In the case of complete
subjectiﬁcation, i.e. no explicit expression – dialogic identity – cannot be built up or
modiﬁed.
(3) Dialogic identity – the actual, instable (partial) identity is achieved via the modiﬁcation
of an expression of deictic identity with an identity predicate, i.e. by identity predication.
(4) Dialogic identity can be transformed into more stable concepts of identity (which,
however, is not treated here).
These hypotheses will be tested in the following analysis.
6. EXEMPLARY ANALYSIS
The segment below is taken from a group discussion among 8th grade junior high school3
students in Germany. All of them come from immigrant – mostly Turkish – families. The topic of
their talk, which was introduced by the interviewer (D1), focuses on ‘historical awareness’. The
3
German Realschule (‘intermediate secondary school’).
76 Gabriele Diewald and Marijana Kresić
interview was designed, conducted, recorded and transcribed in the course of an investigation in
developmental psychology into historical awareness in adolescence (Kölbl, 2004; Kölbl, 2008
[2004]).
1 D1 Jetzt ham zwei von euch ja schon gesagt, dass sie das Osmanische Reich
2 interessant ﬁnden. Könnt ihr das n bisschen weiter ausführen warum das so
3 ist. Also auch ihr gerne, ne, also alle.
4 [Unverständliches Gemurmel]
Now two of you already said that you ﬁnd the Ottoman Empire interesting. Can you
go on about why? And you guys, too, everybody. [Unintelligible murmur]
5 S Also ich kenne nicht viel von diese Osmanische Reich. Ich hab davon
6 gehört, aber ich kenne nicht viel, aber er kennt viel, mein Klassenkamerad
Well, I don’t know much about the Ottoman Empire. I’ve heard about it, but I don’t
know much. But he knows a lot, my classmate
7 Ü ich weiX
8 in der Schule
Yeah, I know from school
9 S Ünal Tünek.
Ünal Tünek.
10 Ü In der Türkei hab ich alles gelernt. In der Schule.
I learned everything in school in Turkey.
11 D1 mh
Uh huh
12 Ü Ja, das sehr interessant.
Yeah, it’s very interesting
13 S (guck mal)
(listen)
14 D1 Und was genau, und warum ist das interessant?
Okay, what exactly, and why is it interesting?
15 Ü Ja, die (((gedehnt))) die warn sehr reisch und dann auf einmal haben die alle Kriege
verloren. Und
16 zum Beispiel die sind, äh, von äh Engländer, äh
17 Franzosen und Russen, die haben äh die Türkei besitzt und dann vielleicht
18 kennen Sie, äh, Atatürk, vielleicht kennen Sie, ich weiX nisch,
Yeah, they (((stretched))) they were really rich and then all of a sudden they lost all the
wars. And for example the, uh, English, um, French and Russians, they occupied
Turkey and then maybe you know, uh, Atatürk, maybe you know, I dunno,
19 D1 mh kenne ich ja,
yeah, I know
20 Ü da hat er die ganze, äh die Engländer, Russen und Franzo/Franzosen hat er alles, äh,
zurückgehen
Objectivizing subjectivity 77
21 gelassen. Der hat die, äh, besiegt,
he beat all the, uh, the English, Russians and French/French, he let them all go back.
He defeated the, uh,
22 D1 mh
uh huh
23 Ü er hat die/er hat die Türkei gerettet.
he saved/he saved Turkey.
24 D1 Mh
uh huh
25 Ü Das war’s.
That’s all.
The following analysis of lines 1–23 of the above discourse segment sketches the process of
identity management, i.e. the constitution and modiﬁcation of deictic identities and dialogic
identity, in the ongoing dialogue as it is conducted by the participants. It focuses on the
conversational analytic, pragmatic, semantic and syntactic means and procedures used by the
participants for this purpose on a turn-to-turn basis. This exemplary analysis shows how our
hypotheses may be applied in actual discourse analysis.
Before the analysis of identity management can be undertaken, the discourse must be
segmented into turns, speech acts and – where needed – syntactic units. Thus the preparatory
analysis includes three steps:
(i) Segmentation of discourse into turn units (leaving aside all communicative actions not
immediately relevant for identity management proper, i.e. attention getting etc.)
(ii) Segmentation of turns into speech acts
(iii) Segmentation of speech acts into syntactic units (if necessary)
Table 4.3 shows the segmentation of the extract into turn units.
The subdivision of turns 1–9 into speech acts is given in Table 4.4.
The analysis of identity management (i.e. the constitution of deictic and dialogic identity)
requires the following steps:
(i) Analysis of deictic identity: encoding of the basic dialogue roles as offstage or onstage,
analysing the respective linguistic means, noting the encoding of ‘third’ participants.
Thus, we have to make the following decisions:
 Speaker: onstage deictic identity/offstage deictic identity
 Hearer: onstage deictic identity/offstage deictic identity
 Non-person: onstage/offstage; type of reference (deictic, anaphoric etc.)
(ii) Analysis of new identity predications which constitute a dialogic identity: As explained
before, a new identity predication can only be added to an onstage deictic identity, i.e. an
78 Gabriele Diewald and Marijana Kresić
Table 4.3. Segmentation into turn units
Line Turn unit Speaker Content Backchannel,
etc.
1–3 T1 D1: Jetzt ham zwei von euch ja
schon gesagt, dass sie das
Osmanische Reich interessant
ﬁnden. Könnt ihr das n
bisschen weiter ausführen
warum das so ist. Also auch ihr
gerne, ne, also alle.
Now two of you already said
that you ﬁnd the Ottoman
Empire interesting. Can you go
on about why? And you guys,
too, everybody.
5 T2 S Also ich kenne nicht viel von
diese Osmanische Reich. Ich
hab davon gehört, aber ich
kenne nicht viel, aber er kennt
viel, mein Klassenkamerad
Ünal Tünek.
partial overlap
with T3
Well, I don’t know much about
the Ottoman Empire. I’ve
heard about it, but I don’t know
much. But he knows a lot, my
classmate Ünal Tünek.
7–10 T3 Ü ich weiX in der Schule. In der
Türkei hab ich alles gelernt. In
der Schule
partial overlap
with T2
Yeah, I know from school. I
learned everything in school in
Turkey.
Dl: mh
12 T4 Ü Ja, das sehr interessant. S: (guck mal)
Yeah, it’s very interesting listen
Objectivizing subjectivity 79
Table 4.3. (Continued )
Line Turn unit Speaker Content Backchannel,
etc.
14 T5 D1 Und was genau, und warum ist
das interessant?
Dl: mh
Okay, what exactly, and why is
it interesting?
15 T6 Ü Ja, die (((gedehnt))) die warn
sehr reisch und dann auf
einmal haben die alle Kriege
verloren. Und zum Beispiel
die sind, äh, von äh Engländer,
äh Franzosen und Russen,
die haben äh die Türkei besitzt
Yeah, they (((stretched))) they
were really rich and then all of
a sudden they lost all the wars.
And for example the, uh,
English, um, French and
Russians, they occupied
Turkey
17–18 T7 Ü und dann vielleicht kennen Sie,
äh, Atatürk, vielleicht kennen
Sie, ich weiX nisch
subturn of T6
backchannel
sequence for
reassurance
and then maybe you know, uh,
Atatürk, maybe you know, I
dunno,
19 T8 D1 mh kenne ich ja, subturn of T6
yeah, I know
backchannel
sequence for
reassurance
20–23 T9 Ü da hat er die ganze, äh die
Engländer, Russen und Franzo/
Dl: mh
80 Gabriele Diewald and Marijana Kresić
element marking a deictic role, which typically takes subject position. If there is no such
element in a given string, this string may keep up dialogic identities established before,
but it may not add a new identity predicate to one of the dialogue roles. We might speak
of an implicit identity status here, as we have offstage persons; in this situation, there is
reliance on the common ground. Furthermore, only statements (representative speech
acts) can be used to introduce new identity predications; questions and requests cannot.
Thus, we make a rough distinction between
 Strings keeping the old identity status
 Strings modifying the identity status of at least one of the dialogue roles.
(iii) Analysis of the ratiﬁcation of a ‘suggested’ identity predication ( ¼ establishment of the
dialogic identity): Identity predications can be made as described in stage (ii). In order to
achieve validation they have to be ratiﬁed by the dialogue partner. Here, we may
hypothesize that if the new speaker has taken over the turn and does not explicitly object
or modify the identity predication of the earlier speaker, then this predication counts as
accepted, and a dialogic identity is established. Thus, we may distinguish two states:
 String ratifying the identity predication made before (thus establishing a dialogic
identity)
 String not ratifying the identity predication made before, either by refutation or
modiﬁcation
The analysis presented below follows these considerations. Due to space constraints it is not
rendered in every detail, but tries to bring out the issues raised above. While for the ﬁrst turns, the
analysis is described step-by-step; the later turns are discussed in a summarizing way.
Table 4.3. (Continued )
Line Turn unit Speaker Content Backchannel,
etc.
Franzosen hat er alles, äh,
zurückgehen gelassen. Der hat
die, äh, besiegt, er hat die/er
hat die Türkei gerettet
he beat all the, uh, the English,
Russians and French/French,
he let them all go back. He
defeated the, uh, he saved/he
saved Turkey.
Objectivizing subjectivity 81
Table 4.4. Turns 1 to 9 – subdivision into speech acts
Line Turn unit:
Speech
act unit
Content Speech act
1 T1:S1 Jetzt ham zwei von euch ja schon
gesagt, dass sie das Osmanische Reich
interessant ﬁnden.
representative speech act
Now two of you already said that you
ﬁnd the Ottoman Empire interesting.
2 T1:S2 Könnt ihr das n bisschen weiter directive speech act
ausführen warum das so ist. indirect request,
Can you go on about why? formulated as yes-no-
question
3 T1:S3 Also auch ihr gerne, ne, also alle. same as S2; elliptical
And you guys, too, everybody.
5 T2:S1 Also ich kenne nicht viel von diese
Osmanische Reich.
representative speech act
Well, I don’t know much about the
Ottoman Empire.
5–6 T2:S2 Ich hab davon gehört, aber ich kenne
nicht viel,
representative speech act
I’ve heard about it, but I don’t know
much.
6 T2:S3 aber er kennt viel, mein
Klassenkamerad Ünal Tünek.
representative speech act
But he knows a lot, my classmate Ünal
Tünek
7–
10
T3:S ich weiX in der Schule. In der Türkei
hab ich alles gelernt. In der Schule
representative speech act
Yeah, I know from school. I learned
everything in school in Turkey.
12 T4:S Ja, das sehr interessant representative speech act
Yeah, it’s very interesting
82 Gabriele Diewald and Marijana Kresić
Table 4.4. (Continued )
Line Turn unit:
Speech
act unit
Content Speech act
14 T5:S Und was genau, und warum ist das
interessant?
directive speech act
coordinated constituent
Okay, what exactly, and why is it
interesting?
question
15 T6:S1 Ja, die (((gedehnt))) die warn sehr
reisch und dann auf einmal haben die
alle Kriege verloren.
representative speech act
Yeah, they (((stretched))) they were
really rich and then all of a sudden they
lost all the wars.
15–
17
T6:S2 Und zum Beispiel die sind, äh, von
äh Engländer, äh Franzosen und
Russen, die haben äh die Türkei
besitzt
representative speech act
And for example the, uh, English, um,
French and Russians, they occupied
Turkey
17–
18
T7:S und dann vielleicht kennen Sie, äh,
Atatürk, vielleicht kennen Sie, ich weiX
nisch
representative speech act as
indirect request & request
for feedback
and then maybe you know, uh, Atatürk,
maybe you know, I dunno,
19 T8:S mh kenne ich ja, representative speech act
response to request &
backchannel
yeah, I know
20 T9:S1 da hat er die ganze, äh die Engländer,
Russen und Franzo/Franzosen hat er
alles, äh, zurückgehen gelassen.
representative speech act
because he beat all the, uh, the English,
Russians and French/French, he let
Objectivizing subjectivity 83
Turn 1
Table 4.5 shows the establishment of the deictic identities (with the speech acts subdivided into
syntactic units, e.g. S1a, S1b, as far as needed).
As far as the establishment of deictic identity through encoding the communicative roles is
concerned, it is remarkable that the role of the speaker in this turn is kept offstage throughout
(noted in Table 4.5 as ‘‘S ¼ Ø’’). There is neither explicit nor elliptical reference to the ﬁrst
person. This is a strong indication that the speaker, who at the same time is the interviewer,
obviously assumes his own dialogic identity as presupposed and given. He does not have to
establish or modify it. Instead, the speaker produces several complex addresses to his listeners in
which he assigns their deictic identities and thus lays the ground for the addition of identity
predications, which he also offers in his turn.
Let us have a closer look at these: In S1a, reference to the listeners is achieved through the
complex NP zwei von euch (‘two of you’) in subject position. The head of the NP, the numeral
zwei (‘two’) is post-modiﬁed by a prepositional phrase with the Listener-PL von euch (‘of you’-
DAT_PL). By embedding the role variable into an NP it is possible to refer to an unspeciﬁed
group of listeners and at the same time to pick out two individuals, who – through this – are
marked as potential next speakers.
S1b represents an embedded object sentence to the matrix sentence S1a. The subject of S1b,
the third person plural pronoun sie (‘they’) anaphorically takes up the complex subject NP of
S1a and has identical referents. Both clauses ﬁx the deictic identity of the listeners in subject
position, so that the respective predication can be used as an identity predication on the referent
whose deictic identity has been anchored by putting it onstage as a subject NP. In S1b we
Table 4.4. (Continued )
Line Turn unit:
Speech
act unit
Content Speech act
them all go back. He defeated the, uh,
he saved/he saved Turkey.
21–
23
T9:S2 Der hat die, äh, besiegt, er hat die/er
hat die Türkei gerettet
representative speech act
he beat all the, uh, the English,
Russians and French/French, he let
them all go back. He defeated the, uh,
he saved/he saved Turkey.
84 Gabriele Diewald and Marijana Kresić
witness an indirect assignment of an identity predication to the listeners via the third person
subject, which, however, is anaphorically connected to the role variable in S1a. This procedure
(which might be called covered identity predication) is in concord with the indirectness of the
identity predications by speaker D1 assigned to his listeners. These identity predications are
presented in Table 4.6.
In S1a the deictic identity of the listeners is combined with the identity predication of having
said the content of the embedded clause S1b (dass sie das Osmanische Reich interessant ﬁnden
‘that they ﬁnd the Ottoman Empire interesting’). That is, the referents of the subject of S1a zwei
von euch (‘two of you’) are identiﬁed by the speaker as the ones that have afﬁrmed the content
of S1b.
In S1b the subject sie (‘they’) (which through anaphoric reference is identical with the selection
of listeners identiﬁed in S1a) receives the identity predication das Osmanische Reich interessant
ﬁnden (‘ﬁnd the Ottoman Empire interesting’). Because S1b is an instance of indirect speech, the
present speaker claims that his present listeners are the original speakers of S1b, i.e. it is their own
Table 4.5. Turn 1 – Marking of the dialogue rolesa
Line Unit Utterance Participants’ deictic status
1 S1a Jetzt ham zwei von euch ja schon
gesagt,
S ¼ Ø
Now two of you already said
Listener–PL ¼ complex NP with
role variable of 2PL in attributive
function
1–2 S1b dass sie das Osmanische Reich
interessant ﬁnden.
S ¼ Ø
that you ﬁnd the Ottoman Empire
interesting.
Listener–PL ¼ pronoun 3PL
2 S2 Könnt ihr das n bisschen weiter
ausführen warum das so ist.
S ¼ Ø
Can you go on about why? Listener–PL ¼ role variable
3 S3a Also auch ihr gerne, ne, S ¼ Ø
And you guys, too, Listener–PL ¼ role variable (auch
(‘too’) refers to a subset)
3 S3b also alle. S ¼ Ø
everybody. Listener–PL ¼ indeﬁnite pronoun
a
Ø means that the dialogue role in question is not encoded linguistically (is offstage).
Objectivizing subjectivity 85
claim that they ﬁnd the Ottoman Empire interesting. The present speaker makes identity
predications which he does not take personal responsibility for but claims to have been brought
forward by his listeners themselves.
Interpreting this sequence we may summarize: The speaker introduces the deictic identity of
the group and attaches an identity predication to the whole group. This however is done indirectly
in two steps: By selecting two members of the group as the ones who originally had made this
predication, he disclaims his responsibility for the identity predication, and presumes that the
group in their own deﬁnition had assumed that das Osmanische Reich interessant ﬁnden (‘ﬁnd the
Ottoman Empire interesting’) is a relevant identity predication for them.
The rest of turn 1 consists of S2 and S3a and S3b. These speech acts are requests
formulated as questions. They do not make a new identity predication. Instead, they redeﬁne
the deictic identity of the listeners. S2 (Könnt ihr das n bisschen weiter ausführen warum das
so ist ‘can you go on about why’), addresses the same referents as before, now using the
second person plural ihr (‘you’) in subject position. The addressees are asked to state why the
identity predication attached to them in S1 by D1 holds. Thereby D1 tries to elicit a rati-
ﬁcation of that identity predication. In S3a and S3b, this intention is kept up, the request is
repeated. However, the addressees are extended to include not only a subset of the listeners,
but all of them. While the ﬁrst ihr (‘you’) in S2 keeps up the referents of S1, the ihr in S3a
also auch ihr (‘you too’), refers to the other members of the group of listeners, and S3b,
ﬁnally, by using the indeﬁnite pronoun alle (‘everybody’) in also alle, includes all listeners
present in the group.
The succession of establishing the deictic identity of the listeners in turn 1 thus is achieved by
the following chain of co-reference:
zweii von euchi&jW[embedded: siei]Wihr W also auch ihrjWalso allei&j.
‘two of you’W‘they’W‘you’W‘you too’W‘everybody’
With this shift of extension of the expressions for the referents, D1 implies that the presumed
identity predication of S1 holds for all. D1 thus assumes that all his listeners form a homogeneous
Table 4.6. Identity predications of S1 in turn 1
Line Clause Subject: Deictic identity Identity predicate
1 S1a zwei von euch S1b gesagt haben
two of you already said
1–2 S1b sie das Osmanische Reich interessant
ﬁnden
they ﬁnd the Ottoman Empire interesting
86 Gabriele Diewald and Marijana Kresić
group sharing the feature of ‘ﬁnding the Ottoman Empire interesting’, which is not explicitly
expressed in S2 and S3 but is taken over from S1.
Thus, turn 1 is an act of suggesting a group identity for all the listeners by D1, succes-
sively broadening the inclusion of referents in the role variables and pronouns and transferring
the identity predication made for a sub-group (zwei von euch) to all (also alle). In the next
turn this suggestion of dialogic identity has to be afﬁrmed or refuted (see analytic step (iii)
above).
Turn 2
In turn 2 participant S takes over as speaker (and deictic origo) and marks the dialogue role as
indicated in Table 4.7. The speaker explicitly encodes his deictic identity in using the role variable
ich (‘I’) in S1 and S2, while the immediate listener (the former speaker D1) is offstage. In S3 a
third participant, a member of the group attending (bystander), is introduced with the help of the
third person pronoun er (‘he’), which is used as a demonstrative (by deictic reference), and
supplemented by additional (predicative) information (mein Klassenkamerad, Ünal Tünek ‘my
classmate Ünal Tünek’).
Table 4.7. Turn 2 – Marking of the dialogue roles
Line Unit Utterance Participants’ deictic status
5 T2:S1 Also ich kenne nicht viel
von diese Osmanische
Reich.
S ¼ role variable 1SG
Well, I don’t know much
about the Ottoman
Empire.
Listener ¼ Ø
5–6 T2:S2 Ich hab davon gehört,
aber ich kenne nicht viel,
S ¼ role variable 1SG
I’ve heard about it, but I
don’t know much.
S ¼ role variable 1SG
Listener ¼ Ø
6–9 T2:S3 aber er kennt viel, mein
Klassenkamerad Ünal
Tünek.
S ¼ Ø
But he knows a lot, my
classmate Ünal Tünek.
Listener ¼ Ø
Bystander: 3SG, demonstrative pronoun use
er (‘he’) & descriptive speciﬁcation & proper
name
Objectivizing subjectivity 87
The identity predications added to these deictic identities in this turn (resulting in dialogic
identities) are presented in Table 4.8.
It is obvious that this second turn takes up the identity predication by D1 in turn 1 and, instead
of ratifying it, disclaims it. This becomes clear from the way identity predications are added to
the deictic identity of the speaker (in T2:S1 and in T2:S2, Table 4.7). The resulting dialogic identity
of S is ‘one who has heard about the Ottoman Empire but does not know much about it’. The
assignment of the identity predication ‘one who is interested in the Ottoman Empire’ by D1 in turn 1
is refuted and substituted by the present speaker’s own predication (an act of contrastive
positioning).
Moreover, in the last speech act of turn 2 (S3), speaker S shifts the focus to another participant
(er, mein Klassenkamerad Ünal Tünek ‘he my classmate Ünal Tünek’), who had been classiﬁed as
a member in the group of listeners (one among ihr alle ‘everybody’) by speaker D1 in the very
ﬁrst turn. S3 redeﬁnes this participant as one who should take over the active part of interlocutor
because he has the relevant knowledge to be identiﬁed as ‘one who ﬁnds the Ottoman Empire
interesting’. Loosely speaking, S denies being the right dialogue partner, and hands over the ‘hot
potato’ to Ü (‘not me, but him’).
Turn 3
In turn 3, Ü indeed takes over (his turn partially overlapping with turn 2). As shown in Table
4.9, the new deictic identity again is established by using the role variable ich (‘I’) (two times),
while the listener(s) remain offstage.
The following identity predications are performed by speaker Ü (Table 4.10).
Table 4.8. Identity predications in turn 2
Clause Subject: Deictic identity Identity predicate
S1 ich kenne nicht viel von diese Osmanische Reich
I don’t know much about the Ottoman Empire.
S2 Ich hab davon gehört, aber ich kenne
nicht viel,
I I’ve heard about it, but I don’t know much.
S3 er. . . kennt viel
he . . . knows a lot
mein Klassenkamerad Ünal
Tünek.
my classmate Ünal Tünek.
88 Gabriele Diewald and Marijana Kresić
In S1a Ü ratiﬁes the identity predication attributed to him by the last speaker S, who had
claimed that Ü knows everything. In S1b Ü speciﬁes this by making the predication of having
learned all this in school in Turkey. In doing so, he explicitly does not ratify the identity
predication suggested by D1, i.e. he does not claim personal interest or personal involvement.
Instead, he identiﬁes himself as one who has acquired knowledge in the regular way in school.
Turn 4
After D1’s backchannel mh, Ü starts a new turn, which does not contain any reference to
dialogue roles. It takes up the content of what has been said before stating that this is interesting in
a summative way. The distribution of dialogue roles is given in Table 4.11, the respective
predication is shown in Table 4.12.
Ü states that das (‘it’), i.e. some abstract entity in the common ground, is interesting. Das may
take up the content of what he learned at school. By using the same words as D1 in turn 1 (as
well as by using a turn initial ja (‘yeah’), which in this case also has an afﬁrmative function),
the present speaker Ü obviously wants to keep up good relations with D1. At the same time, even
Ü does not ratify the identity predication suggested by D1: He does not state that he is someone
Table 4.9. Turn 3 – Marking of the dialogue roles
Line Unit Utterance Participants’
deictic status
7-10 T3:S1 ich weiX in der Schule. In der Türkei hab ich alles
gelernt. In der Schule
S ¼ role variable
1SG
Listener ¼ Ø
Yeah, I know from school. I learned everything in
school in Turkey.
Table 4.10. Identity predications in turn 3
Clause Subject: Deictic identity Identity predicates
S1a ich weiX
I know
S1b ich habe alles gelernt in der Türkei in der Schule
I learned everything in school in Turkey
Objectivizing subjectivity 89
who ﬁnds the Ottoman Empire interesting; he just states that some rather unspeciﬁc piece of
knowledge is – generally – interesting.
Turn 5
In turn 5, D1 takes over again with the question: Und was genau, und warum ist das interessant?
(‘Okay, what exactly, and why is it interesting?’). By doing this, he tries to provoke some more
personal involvement in the topic on the side of his dialogue partners. In his question, there is
neither onstage marking of the dialogue roles, only the continuation of the propositional anaphoric
reference, nor is there a new identity predication. The speciﬁcation (was genau und warum ‘what
exactly and why’) and the repetition (ist das interessant ‘is it interesting’) hints at the fact that D1
still clings to his initial identity predication, still trying to elicit a ratiﬁcation for it from his partners.
Turns 6 to 9
Turns 6 to 9, which are reproduced here for convenience, can be analysed in a summarizing
way (Table 4.13).
The major speaker is Ü, who starts with an account of historic facts (turn 6), interrupts himself
with a request for feedback (turn 7), which is answered afﬁrmatively by D1 (turn 8). After this
sequence, Ü goes on with his narration (turn 9).
In turns 6 and 9, neither the speaker (Ü) nor the listener (D1) are deictically identiﬁed. Instead,
this passage presents an account of the history of the Turks, the actors of which are – unsurprisingly
– encoded by demonstrative and anaphoric pronouns of the third person, and by proper names. Ü
keeps up the dialogic identity, he has assigned to himself in turn 3 (‘one who knows what he
learned at school’), by not making a new identity predication about himself, but unfolding his
Table 4.11. Turn 4 – Marking of the dialogue roles
Unit Utterance Participants’ deictic status
T4:S1 das sehr interessant S ¼ Ø
Listener ¼ Ø
it’s very interesting non-person: propositional anaphoric reference
Table 4.12. Predication in turn 4
Clause Subject Predicate
T4:S1 das sehr interessant
it very interesting
90 Gabriele Diewald and Marijana Kresić
knowledge. In asking the listener (D1) whether he knows about Atatürk, he implicitly asks his
partner to accept Ü’s identity assignment. In answering the appeal for conﬁrmation in the
afﬁrmative (mh kenne ich ja ‘yeah I now’), D1 not only afﬁrms the required state of knowledge for
understanding the narration, but, at the same time, he accepts and ratiﬁes Ü’s identity predication,
Table 4.13. Turns 6 to 9 – subdivision into speech acts
Line Turn:
Speech
act
Content Speech act
16–
17
T6:S2 Und zum Beispiel die sind, äh, von äh
Engländer, äh Franzosen und Russen,
die haben äh die Türkei besitzt
representative speech act
And for example the, uh, English, um,
French and Russians, they occupied
Turkey
17–
18
T7:S und dann vielleicht kennen Sie, äh,
Atatürk, vielleicht kennen Sie, ich weiX
nisch
representative speech act as
indirect request & request for
backchannel
and then maybe you know, uh, Atatürk,
maybe you know, I dunno,
19 T8:S mh kenne ich ja, representative speech act,
response to request &
backchannel
yeah, I know
20–
21
T9:S1 da hat er die ganze, äh die Engländer,
Russen und Franzo/Franzosen hat er
alles, äh, zurückgehen gelassen.
representative speech act
because he let all the, uh, the English,
Russians and French French, he let them
all go back.
21–
23
T9:S2 Der hat die, äh, besiegt, er hat die/er
hat die Türkei gerettet
representative speech act
He defeated the, uh, he saved/he saved
Turkey.
Objectivizing subjectivity 91
which – as stated before – is not ‘one who ﬁnds the Ottoman Empire interesting’, but ‘one who
knows about Turkish history and tells his listeners about it’. This discourse analytic sketch should
have shown the importance of person deixis for the establishment of dialogic identity as well as the
plausibility of the proposed model of the constitution of dialogic identity.
7. CONCLUSION
We conclude by summarizing our main theoretical and methodological points, by discussing
the most striking results of the analyses and by referring them to cross-linguistic issues.
The concept of identity is constituted by interlocutors in communicative processes and
signiﬁcantly based upon linguistic, especially deictic processes. Dialogic identity is deﬁned as an
instable, partial identity in the frame of an ongoing interaction, which is constituted by the encoding
of a deictic identity together with attached identity predications. Where deictic identity is constituted
by means of dialogue roles which reﬂect the current status of the dialogue participants in the
ongoing communicative act (ich ‘I’ ¼ speaker role; du ‘you’ ¼ hearer role), identity predications
are provided by attaching more complex, semantic units to deictic expressions of identity.
Following Langacker (1999, 1985), the concepts of subjectiﬁcation and objectiﬁcation are
deﬁned as opposite mechanisms of expressing subjective and objective linguistic representations
of cognitive conceptualizations. As a process of perspectivizing a linguistically rendered event
with reference to its deictic anchoring or ground, subjectiﬁcation involves leaving features of the
communicative setting implicit or offstage. The process of representing a dialogue role by one of
the person deictics represents an instance of the opposite phenomenon of objectiﬁcation,
i.e. explicitly marking relevant aspects of the ground ( ¼ the dialogue roles) by putting them
onstage.
A bipartite paradigm of personal pronouns, consisting of the ﬁrst and second person as the two
principal and ‘inevitable’ (obligatory) dialogue roles adequately reﬂects their dual structure.
This grammatical paradigm was described for the German language and deﬁned as a meta-
communicative linguistic category which has the unique function of constituting deictic identity.
Deictic identity represents the communicative a priori, the local basis, for the constitution of a
dialogic or more stable identity. Furthermore, deictic identity reﬂects the primary dialogic make-up
of language and thus represents the primary type of deictic positioning of both dialogue partners.
The essential function of encoding and objectifying the dialogue roles in an utterance, i.e. the
marking of deictic identity in a turn, is the building of the anchoring point for the establishment of
dialogue identities. In the case of complete subjectiﬁcation, i.e. the lack of explicit expression of
dialogue roles, dialogic identity cannot be constituted. As mentioned before, dialogic identity –
the actual identity set up in the course of a particular dialogue – is achieved by attaching identity
predications to the given instances of deictic identity. The intersubjective ratiﬁcation of such a
92 Gabriele Diewald and Marijana Kresić
dialogic identity, which is assigned to one dialogue partner by the other, requires at least one
change of dialogue roles. Only the person who holds the speaker role (i.e. the person who
currently has the turn) can assign and ratify a dialogic identity suggested in the preceding turn.
Our analysis of a short segment of discourse primarily concentrated on the constitution of
deictic identity and dialogic identity by means of linguistic composition. It showed that the
grammatical category of person plays a central role in the process of dialogic identity constitution.
Drawing on one segment of a group discussion among young migrants in Germany, the following
analytical steps were performed:
(i) Segmentation of discourse into turn units
(ii) Segmentation of turns into speech acts
(iii) Segmentation of speech acts into syntactic units
The analysis of identity management required the following steps:
(i) Analysis of deictic identity: encoding of the basic dialogue roles as offstage, or onstage,
describing linguistic means, noting the encoding of ‘third’ participants
(ii) Analysis of new identity predications
(iii) Analysis of the ratiﬁcation of a ‘suggested’ identity predication (establishment,
ratiﬁcation of the dialogic identity)
With respect to deictic identity two states were distinguished: it can be put onstage (by role
variables), or it can remain offstage with no explicit expression at all. Furthermore, we made a
rough distinction between:
 Strings keeping the old identity status
 Strings modifying the identity status of at least one of the dialogue roles.
As far as the ratiﬁcation of dialogic identity is concerned, we distinguished between two states:
 String ratifying the identity predication made before (thus establishing a dialogic identity)
 String not ratifying the identity predication made before, either by refutation or modiﬁcation.
The exemplary analysis revealed the concrete mechanisms of the process of identity
management, i.e. the constitution and modiﬁcation of deictic identities and dialogic identity, in the
ongoing dialogue as it was conducted by the participants. It focused on the pragmatic, semantic
and syntactic means and procedures applied by the participants to this purpose on a turn-by-turn
basis. The analysis demonstrated how the hypotheses formulated in this paper may be applied in
actual discourse analysis.
Finally, some cross-linguistic considerations are worth mentioning. The initial subdivision into
turns served to determine the basic units of the dialogic structure of the analysed sequence. It
should be possible to segment a piece of spoken discourse in any language in the same manner.
Objectivizing subjectivity 93
The same universal applicability is assumed with reference to the segmentation into speech
acts. In the given dialogue, there was a predominance of representative speech acts, which are
required for the introduction of new identity predications. However, in other dialogue types, such
as e.g. in counselling interviews, other types of speech acts might be more frequent (e.g.
expressives, directives), which should be the case in a broad variety of other languages.
As far as the concrete analysis is concerned, it was shown that at the beginning of our dialogue
sequence, the role of the speaker is kept offstage and thereby subjectiﬁed. As a consequence,
fewer opportunities are given to assign the speaker/interviewer a dialogic identity. His role is
introduced as a more or less unmodiﬁable position, whereas complex addresses of the hearers lead
to the explicit constitution, i.e. objectiﬁcation of their deictic identity, to which identity predictions
can be added. It can be assumed that this mechanism applies to the constitution of dialogic and
deictic identity in other languages, as well.
An interesting research hypothesis, however, can be formulated with reference to pro-drop
languages: How is the opposition between onstage deictic identities and offstage deictic identities
structured in languages such as Italian and Croatian where personal pronouns marking the subject
of the sentence are not obligatorily encoded? English, on the other hand, is expected to function in
a similar way as German, since it displays the obligatory explicit marking of the two dialogue
roles via personal pronouns and is also assumed to have a binary paradigm of the grammatical
category of person.
Other challenging research questions to be answered by further, cross-linguistic and language-
speciﬁc studies pertain to the speciﬁc ways of realizing and ratifying identity predications,
including the speciﬁc linguistic means used to modify or keep an identity status. Every language
certainly has a rich and speciﬁc variety of means which serve to accomplish identity management
in an ongoing dialogue.
REFERENCES
Bamberg, M. (1999). Identität in Erzählung und im Erzählen. Versuch einer Bestimmung der Besonderheit des
narrativen Diskurses für die sprachliche Verfassung von Identität. Journal für Psychologie, 7, 43–55.
Bamberg, M. (2005). Positioning. In D. Herman, M. Jahn & M.-L. Ryan (Eds.), The Routledge encyclopedia
of narrative theory (pp. 445–446). New York, NY: Routledge.
Benveniste, É. (1966 [1956]). La nature des pronoms. In É. Benveniste (Ed.), Problèmes de lingistique
générale (pp. 251–257). Paris: Gallimard.
Braunmüller, K. (1977). Referenz und Pronominalisierung: Zu den Deiktika und Proformen des Deutschen.
Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Bühler, K. (1982 [1934]). Sprachtheorie: Die Darstellungsfunktion der Sprache. Stuttgart: UTB.
Clark, H. (1996). Using language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Diewald, G. (1991). Deixis und Textsorten im Deutschen. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
94 Gabriele Diewald and Marijana Kresić
Diewald, G. (2010). Dialogrollen-Person-Identität. In M. Palander-Collin, H. Lenk, M. Nevala, P. Sihvonen &
M. Vesalainen (Eds.), Identitätskonstruktion in der interpersonalen Kommunikation (pp. 15–36).
Mémoires de la Société Néophilologique de Helsinki, 81. Helsinki: Sociéte Néophilologique.
Grimm, J. (1866). Ueber den Personenwechsel in der Rede. In Abhandlungen zur Litteratur und Grammatik.
Kleinere Schriften (Vol. III, pp. 236–311). Berlin: Dümmler.
Hartung, W. (1987). Das Dialogische als Prinzip des Sprachlichen: Positionen zwischen Kontinuität und
Diskontinuität. In W. Neumann & B. Techtmeier (Eds.), Bedeutungen und Ideen in Sprachen und
Texten (pp. 93–111). Berlin: Akademie-Verlag.
Henne, H., & Rehbock, H. (1982). Einführung in die Gesprächsanalyse (2nd ed.). Berlin: de Gruyter.
Jakobson, R. (1971 [1957]). Shifters, verbal categories, and the Russian verb. In R. Jakobson (Ed.), Selected
writings (Vol. II, pp. 130–147). The Hague: Mouton.
Kölbl, C. (2004). GeschichtsbewuXtsein im Jugendalter. Grundzüge einer Entwicklungspsychologie
historischer Sinnbildung. Bielefeld: Transcript.
Kölbl, C. (2008 [2004]). Transcript: Gruppendiskussion mit Jungen einer 8. Realschulklasse, Oktober 2004
[Manuscript].
Kresić, M. (2006). Sprache, Sprechen und Identität. Studien zur sprachlich-medialen Konstruktion des Selbst.
München: iudicium.
Langacker, R. W. (1985). Observations and speculations on subjectivity. In J. Haiman (Ed.), Iconicity in
syntax. Proceedings of a symposium on iconicity in syntax. Stanford, June 24-6 1983 (pp. 109–150).
Amsterdam, Philadelphia, PA: John Benjamins.
Langacker, R. W. (1999). Subjectiﬁcation and grammaticization. In R. W. Langacker (Ed.), Grammar and
conceptualization (pp. 297–315). Berlin: de Gruyter.
Lucius-Hoene, G., & Deppermann, A. (2004). Rekonstruktion narrativer Identität. Ein Arbeitsbuch zur
Analyse narrativer Interviews (2nd ed.). Wiesbaden: VS Verlag für Sozialwissenschaften.
Lyons, J. (1982). Deixis and subjectivity. In R. J. Jarvella & W. Klein (Eds.), Speech, place and action: Studies
in deixis and related topics (pp. 101–124). New York, NY: Wiley.
Malone, M. J. (2005). Worlds of talk. The presentation of self in everyday conversation. Cambridge: Polity
Press.
Seebold, E. (1984). Das System der Personalpronomina in den frühgermanischen Sprachen: Sein Aufbau und
seine Herkunft. Göttingen: Vandenhoeck & Rupprecht.
Traugott, E. C. (1989). On the rise of epistemic meanings in English: An example of subjectiﬁcation in
semantic change. Language, 65, 31–55.
Traugott, E. C., & Dasher, R. B. (2002). Regularity in semantic change. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Traugott, E. C. (2003). Constructions in grammaticalization. In B. Joseph & R. Janda (Eds.), The handbook of
historical linguistics (pp. 624–647). Oxford: Blackwell.
Objectivizing subjectivity 95
This page intentionally left blank
Subjectivity in Language and in Discourse
Edited by Nicole Baumgarten, Inke Du Bois and Juliane House
r 2012 by Emerald Group Publishing Limited. All rights reserved.
5
AUTHORIAL STANCE IN RESEARCH ARTICLE
ABSTRACTS AND INTRODUCTIONS FROM
TWO DISCIPLINES
Phuong Dzung Pho
1. INTRODUCTION
Novice writers often wonder how much they should reveal their own identity in writing a
scholarly article, for instance, whether it is appropriate to use I or not. Writing handbooks and
manuals sometimes give unhelpful advice such as ‘Don’t use ﬁrst personal pronouns in academic
writing’ or ‘Use passive voice instead of active voice’. Such advice can be misleading and
overgeneralised as styles may vary greatly across disciplines or, as demonstrated later in this
chapter, across moves. Styles may also vary across genres such as the abstract or the introduction.
As pointed out by Bunton (2002), an introduction to a graduate thesis has a different style from an
introduction to an article to be published in a scholarly journal.
That non-native speaking scholars experience problems not only with the structure of the
article but also in expressing authorial stance or voice has been documented in the literature
(e.g. Flowerdew, 1999). ‘Authorial stance’ or ‘voice’ as used in the present study refers to the
writer’s identity (i.e. whether the writer shows his/her presence explicitly or implicitly in the text),
as well as the writer’s expression of attitudes, feelings or judgments about a proposition or entity
in the text. There have been a considerable number of studies on the abstract genre and the
research article genre. Most of the research on the abstract tends to focus more on rhetorical
structure than on interpersonal aspects (e.g. Anderson & Maclean, 1997; Busch-Lauer, 1995a,
1995b; Lorés, 2004; Santos, 1996). Some of the more recent studies, however, do address
authorial stance in the abstract. For example, Dahl (2004), Lorés (2008), Samraj (2002) and
Stotesbury (2003b) investigate the use of ﬁrst person pronouns in research article abstracts;
Hyland and Tse (2005) and Stotesbury (2003a) look at evaluation in that-complement clauses;
and Martı́n Martı́n (2002) examines hedging. Similarly, studies of the main research article (or
the research article proper) also focus more on the move structure of individual sections of the
research article (e.g. Posteguillo, 1999; Yang & Allison, 2004). Studies that investigate certain
aspects of authorial stance in the main article include Harwood’s (2005) study on the use of I
and we; Hyland’s (1995) and Koutsantoni’s (2006) studies on hedging devices and Thompson
and Ye’s (1991) study on reporting verbs. Although these studies provide us with interesting
insights into some features of authorial stance in either the research article abstract or the
main article, they tend to be selective. It would be useful for the novice writer to be presented
with a more comprehensive account of linguistic realisations of authorial stance in research
articles.
Another limitation of current studies on authorial stance in research articles is that these
studies mainly investigate variations of authorial stance realisations across sections of the main
research article, with no attention paid to different moves within those sections. (The concept of
‘moves’ here, following Swales (1990) and other researchers, refers to segments of text with a
certain communicative function.) Yet, as pointed out by Hunston (1994) and Reilly, Zamora,
and McGivern (2005), the interpersonal aspect of texts is closely related to the function of the
text. It is therefore reasonable to hypothesise that linguistic realisations of authorial stance
would vary across moves, not just across genres or sections within a genre (see also Rentel, this
volume).
The present study thus aims at examining the distribution patterns of the main linguistic
features realising authorial stance in different moves of the abstract and the introduction of
research articles in two disciplines – Applied Linguistics and Educational Technology. The
abstract and research article introduction are treated as two different genres in the present study,
following Samraj (2005) and Lorés (2008).
2. METHODOLOGY
2.1. The construction of the corpus
A corpus of 40 empirical research articles was compiled from four journals in the ﬁelds of
Applied Linguistics and Educational Technology: 10 from The Modern Language Journal (MLJ)
and 10 from TESOL Quarterly (TQ) in the ﬁeld of Applied Linguistics; 10 from Computers &
Education (CE) and 10 from the Journal of Computer Assisted Learning (JCAL) in the ﬁeld of
98 Phuong Dzung Pho
Educational Technology. These journals were chosen, as they have high impact factors according
to Journal Citation Reports (2006).
First, I collected all the empirical research articles published in those four journals from
January 2006 up to the most recent issue available at the time of data collection in May 2007.
The collection of articles from the most recent issues of the journals is to ensure that the articles
reﬂect the current trend in writing of the journals. The articles were then numbered sequentially
starting from 01. Then 10 articles were randomly selected from the cohort of articles from each
journal using a random number generator. This random procedure ensures that the selection
is unbiased.
2.2. The coding of rhetorical moves
The 40 articles were downloaded and converted from .pdf format to .txt format and xml-
tagged for move structure. The present study is part of a larger project examining the rhetorical
structure and linguistic realisations of moves and authorial stance in the abstract and all the
sections of the main article, but this chapter only reports relevant ﬁndings for the abstract and
introduction of the articles. The corpus (including both abstracts and introductions) comprises
over 82,000 words.
The framework for the coding of moves in the abstract and introduction (as shown in Table 5.1)
was mainly based on Santos (1996) and Swales (2004).
Although neither Santos’ nor Swales’ corpora include Educational Technology articles,
their models of move structure for the abstract and the introduction seem to apply very well for
the corpus of the present study. No new functions had to be added to the framework at the
move level.
2.3. Approach to the analysis of linguistic realisations of authorial stance
An initial analysis of the linguistic features of the research articles was carried out to identify
the features that have the potential of characterising moves and indicating authorial stance.
Linguistic features identiﬁed in previous studies of research articles (e.g. Hyland, 1996, 2005;
Kanoksilapatham, 2003; Vassileva, 2000, 2001) and in a pilot study of mine (Pho, 2008) were
also taken into consideration. Based on these previous studies, I developed a framework for the
analysis of authorial stance for the current study as shown in Table 5.2.
After the corpus was xml-coded for moves, it was tagged for parts of speech using CLAWS7
(Garside & Smith, 1997). Since this tagger can distinguish words with different morphological
structures (e.g. VD0 – do, base form (ﬁnite), VDD – did, VDG – doing, VDI – do, inﬁnitive,
Authorial stance in research article abstracts and introductions 99
VDN – done, VDZ – does), it is useful for the extraction of grammatical structures such as verb
tense and aspect or voice. The linguistic features listed above were then semi-automatically
extracted using WordSmith Tools (Scott, 2004) and Perl scripts to obtain the distribution pattern of
each linguistic feature in each rhetorical move.
Table 5.1. Framework for move coding used in the present study
Function/description Questions asked
Abstract moves
Situating the research
oSTRW
Setting the scene for the current
research (topic generalisation)
What is known about the
ﬁeld/topic of research?
Presenting the research
oPTRW
Stating the purpose of the study,
research questions and/or
hypotheses
What is the study about?
Describing the
methodology oDTMW
Describing the materials,
subjects, variables, procedures,
etc.
How was the research done?
Summarising the
ﬁndings oSTFW
Reporting the main ﬁndings of
the study
What did the researcher ﬁnd?
Discussing the research
oDTRW
Interpreting the results/ﬁndings
and/or giving recommendations,
implications/applications of the
study
What do the results mean?
So what?
Introduction moves
Establishing a territory
oESTW
Reviewing previous studies and
setting the scene for the current
study
What has been done in the
ﬁeld? What is the writer’s
view of existing studies?
Establishing a niche
oESNW
Indicating gaps in previous
research
What has not been done in
the ﬁeld?
Presenting the present
work oPPWW
Announcing the present study What is the study about?
What are the research
questions or hypotheses of
the study?
100 Phuong Dzung Pho
3. FINDINGS AND DISCUSSION
3.1. Direct/explicit expressions of authorial stance – the use of self-reference words
The concordances of self-reference words such as I, me, my, mine, myself, we, us, our, ours,
ourselves, the author(s), the researcher(s)1
in different moves show that self-reference words are
found in all of the moves in Applied Linguistics abstracts and introductions except in the Situating
the research move. As shown in Table 5.3, the move that has the most self-reference words is the
Presenting the present work move of the Introduction (with 71 occurrences per 10,000 words in
the Applied Linguistics corpus and 100.8 occurrences per 10,000 words in the Educational
Technology corpus).
The following examples show some of the most common ways in which self-reference words
are used in the two disciplines:
(1) oPresenting the present workW In this study, we investigate aspects of the learning
experiences of some second-year undergraduate students studying social work in a
metropolitan Australian University. [ET_JCAL1]
Table 5.2. Framework for the analysis of linguistic realisations of authorial stance
A. Direct/explicit expressions/indications of authorial stance
1. Self-reference words (including ﬁrst person pronouns and their derived forms, and other words
referring to the writer(s) of the article: I, me, my, mine, myself, we, us, our, ours, ourselves, the
author(s), the researcher(s)
B. Indirect/hidden expressions/indications of authorial stance
1. Deictic form ‘this’ (e.g. ‘This study shows . . . ’ in fact means ‘In this study I show that . . . ’)
2. Voice (passive voice)
3. Modal auxiliaries and semi-modal verbs (e.g. may, can, should, have to)
4. Epistemic and attitudinal stance adjectives, adverbs and nouns (e.g. important, likely, possible,
surprisingly, curiously, probably, generally, importance, signiﬁcance, possibility, assumption,
tendency)
5. That-complement clauses (controlled by verbs, adjectives or nouns)
6. Controlling words in that-complement structures
1
Note that only instances of the author(s) or the researcher(s) that refer to the author(s) of the paper
being analysed were included here.
Authorial stance in research article abstracts and introductions 101
(2) oPresenting the present workW In this article, we explore vocabulary use in postreading
composition . . . [AL_TQ1]
As we can see from the examples, self-reference words tend to be used when the authors are
introducing their own work. This type of words seems to be a good device for the authors to mark
a shift from reviewing other studies in the Establishing a territory move and the Establishing a
niche move to introducing what the current study is doing in the Presenting the present work
move. That said, when authors introduce their work in the Presenting the research move of the
abstract, which can be considered a parallel move to the Presenting the present work in the
introduction, they do not seem to employ many self-reference words. The frequencies of self-
reference words in the Presenting the research move of the abstract, where writers introduce their
own work, are not as high as those in the Presenting the present work move of the introduction
section in both disciplines (71 vs. 30.5 for Applied Linguistics and 100.8 vs. 27.8 for Educational
Technology). As pointed out in Section 3.2, writers tend to use inanimate nouns such as this study
or this paper to introduce their own study in the abstract instead of referring to themselves.
Only one instance of the author used as self-reference word (i.e. referring to the author of the
present study) is found in the Establishing a niche move (see example 3).
Table 5.3. Normalised frequenciesa
of self-reference words in different moves
Genres Moves Normalised frequencies of self-reference
words
AL ET
Abstract Situating the research 0 0
Presenting the research 30.5 27.8
Describing the methodology 47.7 25.7
Summarising the ﬁndings 33.9 15.5
Discussing the research 34.4 0
Introduction Establishing a territory 15.4 8.2
Establishing a niche 22.2 26.4
Presenting the present work 71.0 100.8
Note: AL, Applied Linguistics; ET, Educational Technology.
a
As the total number of words varies from one move to another and across the disciplines, the raw counts of
tokens for the linguistic features were normalised as per 10,000 words to ensure that they are comparable to
each other.
102 Phuong Dzung Pho
(3) oEstablishing a nicheW This examination should primarily focus on critical variables
inﬂuencing that integration, which, to the author’s reading, has rarely been carried out so
far. [ET_JCAL5]
Thus self-reference words have a clear function of introducing the writer’s own work. There is a
greater tendency for authors in Applied Linguistics to claim their authority in the abstract through
the use of self-reference words than their Educational Technology counterparts, whereas self-
reference words are more commonly used in the introduction section of Educational Technology
articles than those in Applied Linguistics.
3.2. Indirect expressions of authorial stance – the use of the deictic form this
Concordances of this and the nouns study, article, research, investigation, and project were
run. The cases obtained were then checked manually to include only sentences with such noun
phrases in the subject position followed by an active action verb, and to ensure that the data set
included only phrases referring to the present study, not other studies, as in the following example:
(4) oPresenting the researchW This paper analyses a sample of online discussions to
evaluate the development of adult learners as reﬂective practitioners within a networked
learning community. [ET_JCAL9]
This is regarded an indirect way of saying In this paper we analyse a sample of online
discussions . . . .
The majority of deictic forms of this are found in the Presenting the research move of the
abstract (with 227 occurrences per 10,000 words in the Applied Linguistics corpus and 166 cases
per 10,000 words in the Educational Technology corpus). These ﬁgures far exceed the
corresponding numbers for the Presenting the present work move of the introduction (with only
16 cases per 10,000 words in each discipline). The use of this paper can be said to be a way of
hiding the authors themselves, hence making the sentence appear more objective by making the
object the writers are working on the focus of the sentence rather than the writers themselves. Such
use of ‘personiﬁcation of inanimate nouns’ has also been noted in economics and linguistics
abstracts by Fløttum, Dahl, and Kinn (2006) and in scientiﬁc abstracts by Master (2001) and
Orasan (2001). It thus seems that whereas authors are more direct when introducing their own work
in the introduction (as discussed in Section 3.1), they are more indirect when presenting their
work in the abstract. This suggests that the abstract is kept more impersonal than the main article.
3.3. Indirect expressions of authorial stance – the use of grammatical voice
Unlike some previous studies which compare the frequency of passive verbs to that of all other
verbs, the present study compares the frequency of passive transitive verbs to that of active
Authorial stance in research article abstracts and introductions 103
transitive verbs as only transitive verbs have the true possibility of being used in passive or active
voice. Figure 5.1 shows the percentages of transitive verbs used in passive and active voice in
each move of each discipline.
Overall, transitive verbs are more frequently used in active voice than in passive voice for all
moves across the two disciplines except the Describing the methodology move in Educational
Technology abstracts where more passive verbs than active verbs are found, and the Situating the
research move and the Establishing a niche move of Educational Technology articles where
passive verbs and active verbs are more or less equally distributed. Some typical examples are
given below:
(5) oDescribing the methodologyW A combination of open-ended questionnaires and semi-
structured interviews was used to investigate . . . [ET_JCAL1]
(6) oSituating the researchW Signiﬁcant differences were found in Internet experience,
attitudes, usage, and self-conﬁdence between Chinese and British students. [ET_CE5]
(7) oEstablishing a nicheW . . . little research has been done to identify the factors affecting
students’ acceptance of the WebCT learning system . . . [ET_CE1]
The preference for passive verbs over active verbs in the Describing the methodology move
of the abstract, as shown in example 5, can be attributed to the fact that writers try to appear
objective by hiding their own identity when they present the methods of their study. Thus, instead
of saying We used a combination of open-ended questionnaires . . . , the writers chose to use the
Figure 5.1. Percentages of transitive verbs used in passive and active voice in each move.
104 Phuong Dzung Pho
passive structure. Such a structure also draws the reader’s attention to the methods used, which is
the focus of the sentence. On the other hand, the use of passive structures in the Establishing a
niche move of the introduction section (as shown in example 7) seems to make the writer’s
criticism of previous studies less direct; they help writers avoid naming and criticising particular
researchers in the ﬁeld.
A comparison of the normalised frequencies of passive verbs in each move across the two
disciplines shows that more passive verbs are used in Educational Technology articles than in
Applied Linguistics articles for most of the moves. The only exceptions are the Presenting the
research move and the Summarising the ﬁndings move in the abstract, where more passive verbs
are found in Applied Linguistics than in Educational Technology; however, the differences are
relatively small. This difference between the two disciplines can be accounted for by the fact that
although it is a mixed discipline, Educational Technology seems to belong more to the ‘hard’
science category, whereas Applied Linguistics belongs to the ‘soft’ science category. As pointed
out by Hyland (2004) hard sciences tend to adopt a more impersonal tone. This explains the
greater use of passive verbs in Educational Technology than in Applied Linguistics.
3.4. INDIRECT EXPRESSIONS OF AUTHORIAL STANCE – THE USE OF
MODAL AUXILIARIES AND SEMI-MODAL VERBS
The function of modal auxiliary verbs such as might, could or should in conveying authorial
stance has been well documented in studies of hedges and boosters in academic writing (Fortanet,
Palmer, & Posteguillo, 2001; Giltrow, 2005; Hyland & Bondi, 2006; Lindeberg, 1995; Poppi,
2004; Promsin, 2006; Thompson, 2001; Verstraete, 2001; White, 2003). The use of might or
could, for example, conveys the writer’s tentativeness, whereas the use of must or should enforces
the strength of a proposition.
More modal auxiliaries and semi-modal verbs are found in the introduction moves than in the
abstract moves, as can be seen in Figure 5.2.
Although there is little difference in the overall frequencies of modal verbs in the three
introduction moves, more possibility/ability modal verbs are found in the Establishing a territory
and Establishing a niche moves, whereas more volition/prediction modal verbs are found in the
Presenting the present work move of the introduction. Some typical examples are given below:
(8) oEstablishing a territoryW Implicit feedback can also take the form of recasts, in
which . . . [AL_MLJ2]
(9) oEstablishing a nicheW Many experimental studies also use hypothetical scenarios as a
basis for discussion, which may not be meaningful to participants. [ET_JCAL2]
Authorial stance in research article abstracts and introductions 105
(10) oPresenting the present workW . . . it was expected that (a) a measure of L2
productive vocabulary knowledge would not be able to adequately reﬂect incidental
vocabulary acquisition . . . [AL_TQ3]
Such distribution patterns are understandable as authors tend to use hedging when reporting
other people’s work or showing gaps in previous studies. On the other hand, volition/prediction
modal verbs such as will and would are more frequently used in the Presenting the present work
to present the hypotheses of the study or to organise the discourse (i.e. to introduce what the
authors are going to present in the paper).
Modal verbs are not found at all in the Describing the methodology move and almost none
occur in the Summarising the ﬁndings move of the abstract in both disciplines, which shows that
these two moves are presented as very factual. The Discussing the research move seems to stand
out from the other moves of the abstract in that possibility/ability modal verbs are found in both
disciplines. For example,
(11) oDiscussing the researchW The key conclusion of the study is that integration may be
a desirable option regardless of the potential extra costs involved. [ET_CE4]
The use of this type of modal verbs makes the conclusion of the study sound less strong and
deﬁnite and can thus avoid criticisms and be more acceptable to the readers.
Figure 5.2. Distribution pattern of the three types of modal verbs across moves and
disciplines.
106 Phuong Dzung Pho
3.5. Indirect expressions of authorial stance – the use of attitudinal and epistemic stance
adjectives, adverbs and nouns
As shown in Figure 5.3, although both attitudinal and epistemic stance words are found in
almost all of the abstract moves, there are proportionally more attitudinal stance words than
epistemic stance words in most of the moves, except the Describing the methodology move, the
Summarising the ﬁndings move and the Discussing the research move, where the normalised
frequencies of epistemic stance words are more or less the same as those of attitudinal stance
words. Authors tend to use epistemic stance words such as possible (see example 13) in these
three moves of the abstract, where they present or discuss the results of their own study, to soften
the language of the abstract which normally decides whether the reader will accept the study and
continue with the main article. Examples of the use of attitudinal and epistemic stance words are
given below:
(12) oEstablishing a nicheW However, in spite of the large number of studies,
underexplored areas remain. [AL_TQ8]
(13) oDiscussing the researchW It is possible that computerised assessment does not detect
the established gender effect . . . [ET_JCAL7]
Figure 5.3. Distribution pattern of attitudinal and epistemic stance adjectives, adverbs and nouns
across moves and disciplines.
Authorial stance in research article abstracts and introductions 107
This again shows that linguistic features tend to vary across moves rather than across disciplines.
It is also interesting to note that unlike some other linguistic features, stance words seem to be
used slightly more frequently in some of the moves in the abstract than those in the introduction.
Within the abstract, the use of attitudinal stance words in the Situating the research move
stands out from the other moves, especially in Educational Technology. Educational Technology
authors tend to use attitudinal stance words to establish the importance of the ﬁeld that they are
researching – as in example 14:
(14) oSituating the researchW Adapting training methods to speciﬁc teacher traits to best
facilitate the training effects for preservice teachers is an important, yet neglected, topic
in aptitude-treatment interaction research. [ET_CE9]
The stronger tendency of Educational Technology authors to use more attitudinal stance words in
situating the research in the abstract than in the introduction shows that writers need to express
their attitude more strongly in the abstract to promote their study. Readers tend to rely on the
abstract to decide whether they want to go on to read the whole article or not.
3.6. Indirect expressions of authorial stance – the use of that-complement clauses
The that-complement clauses obtained are further classiﬁed into three types: that-clauses
controlled by adjectives, that-clauses controlled by verbs and that-clauses controlled by nouns,
based on the assumption that the construction of Verb_that-clause is a more direct evaluative
expression than Noun or Adjective_that-clause constructions.
The results show that that-complement clauses are mostly found in the Summarising the
ﬁndings move and the Discussing the research move of the abstract and the Establishing a
territory move of the introduction in both disciplines (see Figure 5.4). These clauses are not used
at all in the Presenting the research move and not frequently used in the other moves. That-
clauses controlled by verbs are more common than the other types of that-constructions. The
following extracts illustrate some of the uses of that-complement clauses in the corpus:
(15) oSummarising the ﬁndingsW The ﬁndings revealed that learners made signiﬁcant
improvements in both content knowledge and functional linguistic abilities. [AL_MLJ9]
(16) oDiscussing the researchW This suggests that ﬁndings on the oral L2 processing of
more educated learners may not hold for the oral L2 processing [ . . . ] [AL_TQ2]
(17) oEstablishing a territoryW . . . Smith and Woody found that students gained higher
examination scores from multimedia courses . . . [ET_CE3]
It seems that such a reporting structure as seen in the examples above gives the authors a tool for
expressing their view towards their own ﬁndings (as in examples 15 and 16) or towards other
108 Phuong Dzung Pho
researchers’ studies (as in example 17). Such a structure also helps authors (see example 15) to
signal that the move is now changed to the reporting of the ﬁndings in their own study (through
typical main clauses such as the ﬁndings revealed that . . . or the study shows that . . . ).
3.7. Indirect expressions of authorial stance – the use of that-clauses controlling word types
In addition to the choice of that-clause types (see Section 3.6), writers can also project their
own voice through the choice of controlling words such as show or suggest. The distributions of
controlling word types in that-complement clause structures also vary from move to move.
Positive controlling words such as show or suggest are commonly used in the Summarising the
ﬁndings move and Discussing the research move of the abstract in both disciplines, where writers
report and discuss the ﬁndings of their own work.
(18) oSummarising the ﬁndingsW The results showed that the integrated formats were
more effective than the separated format . . . [ET_JCAL3]
(19) oDiscussing the researchW We suggest that using the keyword method [ . . . ] leads to
better vocabulary learning . . . [AL_MLJ3]
It should be noted that writers use more strongly positive words (i.e. words that express a
strongly positive attitude or feeling such as show or point out) in the Summarising the ﬁndings
move than in the Discussing the research move in both disciplines. Almost all of the controlling
Figure 5.4. Distribution pattern of various types of that-complement constructions across moves
and disciplines.
Authorial stance in research article abstracts and introductions 109
words found in the Discussing the research move are positive weak words (i.e. words that express
a weakly positive attitude or feeling such as suggest). The use of weak controlling words reduces
the force of the authors’ conclusion and thus reduces the authors’ responsibility for it. The verb
suggest in example 19 implies that the authors are tentative in interpreting the ﬁndings of the
study. The use of a weak verb instead of a strong verb in drawing conclusions of the study
safeguards the author against potential criticism or objection from other researchers in the ﬁeld.
The frequency of positive controlling words in the Summarising the ﬁndings and Discussing
the research moves in Applied Linguistics is higher than that in Educational Technology
(349.9 vs. 232.8). This suggests that Applied Linguistics authors tend to promote their study in
the abstract of the article more than Educational Technology authors.
In contrast, negative controlling words (i.e. words that express a negative attitude or feeling
such as claim) and ambiguous controlling words (i.e. the writer expresses some attitude or feeling
in the word, but it is not clear from the immediate context whether it is positive or negative,
e.g. argue) are commonly found in the Establishing a territory move and Establishing a niche
move of the introduction section (see examples 20 and 21).
(20) oEstablishing a territoryW He claimed that it is only what the learner notices about the
input that holds potential for learning. [AL_MLJ2]
(21) oEstablishing a nicheW However, the effect of utilising computerised assessments on
gender differences is not clear. It has been suggested that females may perform more
poorly than males on computerised tests due to computer anxiety (Brosnan, 1999;
Todman, 2000) although it has also been argued that males under-perform on such tests
as they practice less. [ET_JCAL7]
These negative or ambiguous words tend to be used to criticise or challenge a previous study or
researcher. These types of words are almost non-existent in the Summarising the ﬁndings and
Discussing the research moves of the abstract, which report the author’s own study.
4. CONCLUSION
In brief, the distribution patterns of linguistic realisations of authorial stance in the same move
are quite similar across the two disciplines. In fact, there is more variation of the frequency of
these features across moves and genres. As pointed out in Section 1, most previous studies of
research article abstracts or introductions tend to focus on their move structure rather than on
linguistic features (e.g. Santos, 1996). Those that examine linguistic features tend to either look at
the distribution of features in the abstract or the introduction section as a whole (e.g. Varttala,
110 Phuong Dzung Pho
1999) or focus on the distribution of only one or two features across moves (e.g. Salager-Meyer,
1992). The ﬁndings of previous studies are therefore not readily comparable with those in the
current study, which examines how authorial stance is realised in different moves of the abstract
and introduction section. Although more studies at the move level are needed, it can be seen
from the current study that the use of linguistic expressions of authorial stance in the abstract is
consistent across disciplines, for example, passive voice is typical of the methods move.
This work shows that the abstract is more impersonal than the introduction. In the former, self-
reference words are not commonly used; instead writers tend to use the more indirect form, the
deictic this. By hiding their identity, writers make the abstract appear more objective and draw
the reader’s attention to the study itself, what it did and what it found. The author’s detachment in
the abstract is also revealed by the use of passive voice across the moves, and the lack of
attitudinal stance words in most of the moves in the abstract, except in the Situating the research
move of Educational Technology. Authors in that discipline tend to emphasise the importance
of their study in the abstract more than do applied linguists, particularly by claiming the import-
ance of their research at the beginning of the abstract to impress the reader and promote their
study. In the introduction section of the main article, the writers use more direct forms (more self-
reference words). This is particularly the case in the shift from reviewing other research to
presenting their own work, which not only marks the change of moves but also helps the writers
claim their authority. The ﬁndings of this study thus show that expressions of authorial stance do
vary according to the different communicative functions or moves, and differ across the two
genres of abstracts and introductions.
The ﬁndings of the study have some pedagogical implications. They provide more speciﬁc
tools for novice writers or graduate students in academic writing courses than the simple advice of
having their own voice in their papers but not using I. Instructors of such courses, for instance,
should point out that they should be more direct in some moves (e.g. when they are presenting
their present work in the introduction) while more detached in some others (e.g. when they are
describing the methods in the abstract). Although the list of linguistic features of authorial stance
investigated in the present study is by no means exhaustive, it is more comprehensive than
previous studies, and thus gives novice writers a clearer idea of how they can add their own voice
to their writing.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
I would like to thank the Faculty of Arts, Monash University, for offering me the Publications
Award to write up this paper. I would also like to thank Dr Julie Bradshaw for reading an earlier
draft of this paper.
Authorial stance in research article abstracts and introductions 111
REFERENCES
Anderson, K., & Maclean, J. (1997). A genre analysis study of 80 medical abstracts. Edinburgh Working
Papers in Applied Linguistics, 8, 1–23.
Bunton, D. (2002). Generic moves in Ph.D. thesis introductions. In J. Flowerdew (Ed.), Academic discourse
(pp. 57–75). Harlow: Longman.
Busch-Lauer, I.-A. (1995a). Abstracts in German medical journals: A linguistic analysis. Information
Processing & Management, 31(5), 769–776.
Busch-Lauer, I.-A. (1995b). Textual organization in English and German medical abstracts. In B. Warvik,
S.-K. Tanskanen & R. Hiltunen (Eds.), Organization in discourse: Proceedings from the Turku
conference (pp. 175–186). Turku, Finland: University of Turku.
Dahl, T. (2004). Some characteristics of argumentative abstracts. Akademisk Prosa, 2, 49–69.
Fløttum, K., Dahl, T., & Kinn, T. (2006). Academic voices: Across languages and disciplines. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Flowerdew, J. (1999). Problems in writing for scholarly publication in English: The case of Hong Kong.
Journal of Second Language Writing, 8(3), 243–264.
Fortanet, I., Palmer, J. C., & Posteguillo, S. (2001). Hedging devices in technical and academic English. In
J. C. Palmer, S. Posteguillo & I. Fortanet (Eds.), Discourse analysis and terminology in languages
for speciﬁc purposes (pp. 241–257). Castellón: Universitat Jaume I.
Garside, R., & Smith, N. (1997). A hybrid grammatical tagger: CLAWS4. In R. Garside, G. Leech &
A. McEnery (Eds.), Corpusannotation.Linguisticinformationfromcomputertextcorpora(pp.102–121).
London: Longman.
Giltrow, J. (2005). Modern conscience: Modalities of obligation in research genres. Text, 25(2), 171–199.
Harwood, N. (2005). ‘We do not seem to have a theory . . . The theory I present here attempts to ﬁll this gap’.
Inclusive and exclusive pronouns in academic writing. Applied Linguistics, 26(3), 343–375.
Hunston, S. (1994). Evaluation and organization in a sample of written academic discourse. In M. Coulthard
(Ed.), Advances in written text analysis (pp. 191–218). London: Routledge.
Hyland, K. (1995). Hedging in scientiﬁc research articles. Unpublished Ph.D. thesis, University of
Queensland, Brisbane.
Hyland, K. (1996). Talking to the academy: Forms of hedging in science research articles. Written
Communication, 13(2), 251–281.
Hyland, K. (2004). Disciplinary discourses. Social interactions in academic writing. Ann Arbor, MI:
University of Michigan Press.
Hyland, K. (2005). Stance and engagement: A model of interaction in academic discourse. Discourse Studies,
7(2), 173–192.
Hyland, K., & Bondi, M. (Eds.). (2006). Academic discourse across disciplines. Bern: Peter Lang.
Hyland, K., & Tse, P. (2005). Evaluative that constructions: Signalling stance in research abstracts. Functions
of Language, 12(1), 39–63.
Kanoksilapatham, B. (2003). A corpus-based investigation of scientiﬁc research articles. Linking move
analysis with multidimensional analysis. Unpublished Ph.D. thesis, Georgetown University,
Washington, DC.
Koutsantoni, D. (2006). Rhetorical strategies in engineering research articles and research theses: Advanced
academic literacy and relations of power. Journal of English for Academic Purposes, 5(1), 19–36.
Lindeberg, A.-C. (1995). Tenses, modals, and rhetorical structuring in research articles in ﬁnance, management
and marketing: An exploratory study of introductions. In B. Wårvik, S.-K. Tanskanen, & R. Hiltunen
112 Phuong Dzung Pho
(Eds.), Organization in discourse: Proceedings from the Turku conference (pp. 361–369). Turku:
University of Turku.
Lorés, R. (2004). On RA abstracts: From rhetorical structure to thematic organisation. English for Speciﬁc
Purposes, 23(3), 280–302.
Lorés, R. (2008). Genres in contrast: The exploration of writers’ visibility in research articles and research
article abstracts. In S. Burgess & P. Martı́n Martı́n (Eds.), English as an additional language in
research publication and communication (pp. 105–122). Bern: Peter Lang.
Martı́n Martı́n, P. (2002). A genre analysis of English and Spanish research paper abstracts in experimental
social sciences. English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 22(1), 25–43.
Master, P. (2001). Active verbs with inanimate subjects in scientiﬁc research articles. In M. Hewings (Ed.),
Academic writing in context. Implications and applications. Papers in honour of Tony Dudley-Evans
(pp. 169–181). Birmingham: University of Birmingham Press.
Orasan, C. (2001). Patterns in scientiﬁc abstracts. In P. Rayson, A. Wilson, T. McEnery, A. Hardie, & S. Khoja
(Eds.), Proceedings of the corpus linguistics 2001 conference, Lancaster University, UK, 29 March–2
April 2001. Lancaster: University of Lancaster.
Pho, P. D. (2008). Research article abstracts in applied linguistics and educational technology: A study of
linguistic realizations of rhetorical structure and authorial stance. Discourse Studies, 10(2), 231–250.
Poppi, F. (2004). Writer representation and authorial stance: A case study of the introductory chapters in
economics textbooks. In M. Bondi, L. Gavioli & M. Silver (Eds.), Academic discourse, genre and
small corpora (pp. 127–137). Rome: Ofﬁcina Edizioni.
Posteguillo, S. (1999). The schematic structure of computer science research articles. English for Speciﬁc
Purposes, 18(2), 139–160.
Promsin, P. (2006). An analysis of moves and modality in English engineering abstracts. NIDA Language and
Communication Journal, 1(1), 43–61.
Reilly, J., Zamora, A., & McGivern, R. F. (2005). Acquiring perspective in English. The development of
stance. Journal of Pragmatics, 37(2), 185–208.
Salager-Meyer, F. (1992). A text-type and move analysis study of verb tense and modality distribution in
medical English abstracts. English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 11(2), 93–113.
Samraj, B. (2002). Disciplinary variation in abstracts. The case of wildlife behaviour and conservation biology.
In J. Flowerdew (Ed.), Academic discourse (pp. 40–56). Harlow: Longman.
Samraj, B. (2005). An exploration of a genre set: Research article abstracts and introductions in two
disciplines. English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 24(2), 141–156.
Santos, M. B. D. (1996). The textual organization of research paper abstracts in applied linguistics. Text, 16(4),
481–499.
Scott, M. (2004). WordSmith Tools (Version 4). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Stotesbury, H. (2003a). Evaluation in research article abstracts in the narrative and hard sciences. Journal of
English for Academic Purposes, 2(4), 327–341.
Stotesbury, H. (2003b). Who is speaking in research article abstracts? I/we, impersonal agents or previous
authors in citations? AFinLAn vuosikirja, 61, 259–274.
Swales, J. M. (1990). Genre analysis. English in academic and research settings. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Swales, J. M. (2004). Research genres. Explorations and applications. New York, NY: Cambridge University
Press.
Thompson, G., & Ye, Y. (1991). Evaluation in the reporting verbs used in academic papers. Applied
Linguistics, 12(4), 365–382.
Authorial stance in research article abstracts and introductions 113
Thompson, P. (2001). A pedagogically-motivated corpus-based examination of PhD theses. Macrostructure,
citation practices and uses of modal verbs. Unpublished Ph.D. thesis, The University of Reading,
Reading.
Varttala, T. (1999). Remarks on the communicative functions of hedging in popular scientiﬁc and specialist
research articles on medicine. English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 18(2), 177–200.
Vassileva, I. (2000). Who is the author? A contrastive analysis of authorial presence in English, German,
French, Russian and Bulgarian academic discourse. Sankt Augustin: Asgard.
Vassileva, I. (2001). Commitment and detachment in English and Bulgarian academic writing. English for
Speciﬁc Purposes, 20(1), 83–102.
Verstraete, J.-C. (2001). Subjective and objective modality: Interpersonal and ideational functions in the
English modal auxiliary system. Journal of Pragmatics, 33(10), 1505–1528.
White, P. R. R. (2003). Beyond modality and hedging: A dialogic view of the language of intersubjective
stance. Text, 23(2), 259.
Yang, R., & Allison, D. (2004). Research articles in applied linguistics: Structures from a functional
perspective. English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 23(3), 264–279.
114 Phuong Dzung Pho
Subjectivity in Language and in Discourse
Edited by Nicole Baumgarten, Inke Du Bois and Juliane House
r 2012 by Emerald Group Publishing Limited. All rights reserved.
6
SUBJECTIVITY IN THE DISCOURSE OF DEPRESSED
ACUTE CARE HOSPITAL PATIENTS
Helen Tebble
1. INTRODUCTION
Depression is a pervasive mental health problem that is likely to affect at some stage in their
life one in every ﬁve people in many western countries (Depression Perception, 2012; Möller &
Henkel, 2005; National Health Service (UK), 2009; National Institute of Mental Health (USA),
2011). Globally, depression is predicted by the World Health Organisation to be one of the top
major causes of disability across the world’s population by 2020 (Murray & Lopez, 1996; WHO,
2010). There are various national initiatives to address issues of depression such as public
awareness campaigns to help people recognise depression and to destigmatise it as a mental
illness; to create additional research opportunities within psychology and psychiatry to
demonstrate effective methods of treatment; to measure its economic impact on societies; to
address social inclusion issues and suicide prevention. Beyondblue (2011), the national depression
initiative of Australia, is such an example.
Although depression as a signiﬁcant type of mood state is a topic in the domain of psychiatry
and psychology, linguistics can make a contribution to its diagnosis and understanding, not only
by describing the intonational characteristics of depression, as well as the syntax and lexical
choice made by sufferers of depression (Fine, 2006; Rude, Gortner, & Pennebaker, 2004), but also
their discourse semantics as this study does. In Australia many people in the community who
suffer from depression now receive speciﬁc help from government subsidised programs via their
general practitioners, psychologists, psychiatrists and some specialised social workers; and from
many different community subsidised welfare programs, including sports clubs. However, the one
group that tends not to receive special help are already in hospitals – in the acute care wards, as
distinct from those in the psychiatric wards.
This chapter discusses three case studies of the subjectivity in the language of depressed acute care
patients. These cases are from a larger project, the Language of Depression, currently conducted at
Monash University. It is a collaborative project between psychiatrists and linguists who have been
seeking ways of identifying depression in the language of acute care patients. The goals of this
project are ﬁrstly to describe the language of depression; and secondly to convert the ﬁndings into
training material which acute health care staff can use to detect depression in their patients and so refer
them to consultation-liaison psychiatrists or consultation-liaison psychologists for immediate help.
2. DEPRESSION
Symptoms of clinical depression are outlined in the DSM IV (American Psychiatric
Association, 2000) which is under revision. They can be classiﬁed into affective (low mood
states), physiological, behavioural and cognitive categories. The two core symptoms of depression
are (a) persistent sadness or low mood, and (b) loss of enjoyment or interest in everyday activities.
Typically one or both of the core symptoms together with various symptoms from these categories
occurring for at least a fortnight, and which are changes in the way the person previously
functioned, are used to diagnose depression. Subjective lowering of mood includes feeling sad or
miserable; being in tears; and feeling worse in the morning. Physiological symptoms include
difﬁculty in sleeping; change in appetite; weight gain or loss; fatigue or low energy levels.
Behavioural symptoms include loss of interest; loss of enjoyment from normally pleasurable
experiences; social withdrawal; irritable or angry behaviour and slowing down. Cognitive
symptoms of depression include poor concentration; difﬁculty in decision making; negative and
pessimistic thinking; helplessness and hopelessness; loss of conﬁdence; worthlessness; loss of
self-esteem; excessive guilt and suicidal thoughts.
On the other hand categories of subjective well-being include happiness, satisfaction with life,
low neuroticism, positive self-esteem, a sense of perceived control, extroversion, optimism,
positive social relationships and religiosity (Compton, 2005).
For some who suffer from depression its duration is not long, for others it is chronic. The
Language of Depression project addresses the language of acute care patients deemed to have
mild or moderate unipolar depression or, in the control group, no depression.
3. APPRAISAL ANALYSIS
The social context of the situation from which a text is drawn for analysis is construed within
Systemic Functional Linguistics (SFL) as having three variables: the ﬁeld (the subject matter, the
116 Helen Tebble
social action that is taking place); the tenor (the status, the social and speech roles of the
participants, and the kinds and duration of their relationships); and the mode (the channels
and media of communication, the way language constitutes the text, the rhetorical style, the
importance and expectation participants attribute to the language being used, the cohesion and
coherence). Regarding each clause of the text as arising from these three contextual variables, SFL
attributes the language used to three corresponding metafunctions, respectively the ideational,
interpersonal and textual (Halliday, 1994; Halliday & Hasan, 1985). Appraisal Analysis is used
within SFL as a method for studying in particular the interpersonal metafunction of a text. The
text in this study comprises a set of transcribed audio-recorded interviews.
Appraisal is concerned with evaluation: the kinds of attitudes that are negotiated in a text, the
strength of feelings involved and the ways in which values are sourced and readers or speakers
are aligned (Martin & Rose, 2007, p. 25). There are three main systems of appraisal: attitude,
graduation and engagement. The system of attitude accounts for three subsystems: affect,
judgement and appreciation. The system of graduation reveals the force of what is said as well as
the focus (Martin & White, 2005, p. 138). The third system, engagement, attends to the use of one
voice (monogloss) or the addition of more than one voice (heterogloss) into the discourse. These
three major systems provide a way for analysing the discourse semantics of the participants’
appraisal of themselves and of others – their prevailing personal and social judgements or those
made in the moment; their degrees of appreciation or lack of it; the way they align or do not, with
others’ viewpoints and the intensity of their expressed feelings, attitudes and values. In short,
Appraisal Analysis is a useful method for studying the subjectivity of speakers. The system
outlined here applies to Appraisal in spoken English.
The system of attitude itself comprises three subsystems, affect, judgement and appreciation.
Affect ‘‘is the resource deployed for construing emotional responses (‘happiness, sadness, fear,
loathing’, etc.)’’ (Martin, 1995, p. 145). Making use of some features of English grammar as
described by Halliday (1994), Martin (2001, pp. 148–152) and Martin and White (2005, pp. 45–52)
drew upon six factors to classify affect. They are:
(i) Affect has either positive or negative polarity as in ‘happy’ and ‘unhappy’.
(ii) Affect can be expressed as a momentary surge of emotion (‘laughed’) or
(iii) as a prevailing disposition (‘liked’).
(iv) The expression of feelings can be graded revealing their intensity as in ‘disliked/hated/
detested’.
(v) The irrealis/realis distinction allows for feelings that involve intention (irrealis; ‘wary’,
‘long for’), rather than a reaction to a stimulus in the present (realis). Irrealis affect can
show a feeling of inclination or disinclination.
(vi) A typology of three basic sets of emotions to do with un/happiness (‘sadness’, ‘anger’,
‘happiness’ and ‘love’); in/security (social wellbeing to do with ‘anxiety’, ‘fear’,
Subjectivity in the discourse of depressed acute care hospital patients 117
‘conﬁdence’ and ‘trust’); and dis/satisfaction (emotions concerning pursuit of goals –
‘ennui’, ‘displeasure’, ‘curiosity’ and ‘respect’).
Speciﬁc emotions expressing affect can then be classiﬁed into these three sets, as realis or
irrealis, positive or negative, and occurring as a surge of behaviour or as a disposition. Table 6.1
illustrates the typology for affect – un/happiness. The positive and negative affects are indicated
by the happiness/unhappiness distinction. Two sub-categories are provided for each of the two
polarities and they in turn are exempliﬁed by four emotional states (disposition) and four
expressions of behaviour (surge) indicating an intensiﬁcation of the emotion. The surge of
behaviour includes paralinguistic and kinesic responses. Martin and White (2005, p. 90)
acknowledge that laughter does not always signify happiness. These examples are illustrative and
not necessarily exhaustive of the lexical items that signify these categories of emotional states and
behaviour.
Judgement, a second subsystem within the system of attitude within Appraisal Analysis,
attends to the social esteem or social sanction the speaker attributes to a person or an entity.
Judgements of social esteem are positive (expressions of admiration) or negative (expressions of
criticism), and are classiﬁed under the categories of normality (‘fortunate’, ‘unlucky’), capacity
Table 6.1. Realis affect – un/happiness (after Martin, 2001, p. 151 and Martin & White, 2005, p. 49)
UN/HAPPINESS Surge (of behaviour) Disposition
Unhappiness
misery whimper down [low]
[mood: ‘in me’] cry sad [median]
wail miserable [high]
antipathy rubbish dislike
[directed feeling: ‘at you’] abuse hate
revile abhor
Happiness
cheer chuckle cheerful
laugh buoyant
rejoice jubilant
affection shake hands be fond of
hug love
embrace adore
118 Helen Tebble
(‘sensible’, ‘sick’) and tenacity (‘dependable’, ‘weak’). Judgements of social sanction are also
positive (expressions of praise) or negative (expressions of condemnation), and are classiﬁed
under the categories of veracity (‘truthful’, ‘dishonest’); and propriety, how far a person is beyond
reproach (‘caring’, ‘unfair’) (Martin & White, 2005, pp. 52–53). These semantic categories of
judgement according to Martin (2001) and Martin and White (2005) illustrate the institu-
tionalisation of feeling, and reﬂect the speaker’s judgements of their and other’s behaviour in
terms of prevailing norms of behaviour.
Appreciation, a third subsystem of the system of attitude within Appraisal Analysis, reveals a
speaker’s valuation. By attending to the aesthetic, the valuing of performances in a very wide
sense can be accounted for by this subsystem. The types of appreciation (Martin & White, 2005,
pp. 56–60) are both positive and negative and include two types of reaction – for impact
(‘fascinating’, ‘unremarkable’) and for quality (‘beautiful’, ‘nasty’); two types of composition –
for balance (‘harmonious’, ‘irregular’) and for complexity (‘detailed’, ‘extravagant’); and
valuation, the worthwhileness of something (‘genuine’, ‘shallow’). According to Martin (2001,
p. 159) and Martin and Rose (2007, p. 69) these semantic categories of appreciation reﬂect the
institutionalisation of feeling according to the norms of valuing products, performances and
naturally occurring phenomena.
Martin and White (2005) provide substantial but not exhaustive lists of lexical items for all of
their subsystems and categories for Appraisal Analysis, including contributions from Roget’s
Thesaurus of English Words and Phrases. Also they allow for contextual interpretation of the
semantic meaning of lexical items. So lexical items classiﬁed as construing some form of attitude
(affect, judgement and appreciation) brieﬂy described here and set out in tables, for example in
Martin and White (2005), are considered ‘inscribed attitude’. They occur overtly as part of the
spoken text. Other lexical items can be construed as ‘invoked attitude’ since their location or form
invoke meaning by provoking or inviting the listener to adopt some type of attitude. For example,
the phrase ‘he proved an economical player’ inscribes a judgement of capacity. In addition the
adjective ‘economical’ invokes appreciation of the complexity type.
Graduation is a major system within Appraisal Analysis and is applied to the three systems of
attitude: affect, judgement and appreciation. Graduation is inherent in construing ‘‘greater or
lesser degrees of positivity or negativity’’ (Martin & White, 2005, p. 135). It also occurs within
the major system of engagement showing the speaker’s intensity of feeling and ‘‘the degree of
their investment in the utterance’’ (Martin & White, 2005, p. 136). Two major categories of
graduation are applied to attitudinal meaning in appraisal analysis as force and focus. Feelings
can be expressed with force and so graded according to their intensity and amount. Categories
of focus apply to expressions that cannot typically be graded but are used to sharpen or
soften the speaker’s attitude. Categories of force include ampliﬁers (‘extremely’), downtoners
(‘somewhat’, ‘fairly’), intensiﬁers (‘very’), quantiﬁers (‘much’) as well as modality indicating
likelihood (‘may’, ‘might’, ‘must’, ‘possibly’, ‘probably’, ‘certainly’), usuality (‘sometimes’,
Subjectivity in the discourse of depressed acute care hospital patients 119
‘usually’, ‘always’), inclination (‘willing to’, anxious to’, ‘determined to’) and obligation or scales
of modulation (‘allowed to’, ‘supposed to’, ‘required to’ (Halliday, 1994, p. 89). Swearing also
reﬂects a forceful attitude. Focus occurs in two ways, by sharpening the meaning (‘exactly’), i.e.,
moving the meaning up the scale of intensity as it were; or softening, using hedging (‘sort of’,
‘kind of’) to move the meaning down the scale of intensity.
The third major system within appraisal analysis is engagement. It allows for solidarity or non-
alignment with the interlocutor. The monoglossic voice or utterance is used by the speaker who
presents a categorical assertion without leaving room for any dialogistic alternative which needs
to be recognised, or engaged with, in the current communicative context (Martin & White, 2005,
p. 99). The heteroglossic utterance by contrast invokes and allows for other dialogistic points
of view. As such it can provide for ‘‘dialogically alternative positions and voices (dialogic
expansion), or alternatively, acts to challenge, fend off or restrict the scope of such (dialogic
contraction)’’ (Martin & White, 2005, p. 102). Dialogic expansion enables the speaker to
entertain or invite other views within the utterance. It can also enable the speaker to attribute the
source of the idea and acknowledge or distance himself from the opinion being stated. Dialogic
contraction closes down options for negation as they are statements that disclaim (deny or counter
argue) or proclaim ‘‘through some authorial interpolation, emphasis or intervention, dialogic
alternatives [which] are confronted, challenged, overwhelmed or otherwise excluded’’ (Martin &
White, 2005, pp. 117–118).
The Appraisal Analysis system offers a method for understanding the discourse semantics of
the subjective and intersubjective meanings of speakers, in this case of acute care ward patients as
they try to describe their feelings and express opinions about being depressed.
4. SUBJECTS
The three subjects whose use of language is discussed here were selected at random from
the 49 acute care patients who participated in the Language of Depression project. Of the full
cohort 19 were deemed to be depressed, and 30 were deemed as non-depressed. Almost all
were native speakers of English and there was an occasional near-native speaker of English.
Earlier work from this project, Caldwell (2006) and Caldwell, Tebble and Clarke (2006),
focussed on the language of random samples from the control group for the study, the non-
depressed patients. This chapter focuses on the language of three depressed patients (two
males, 34M and 46M, and one female, 22F). All three subjects were patients in acute care
hospital wards of the same major public teaching hospital in Melbourne for just under a week
prior to being interviewed for the project; and their mean length of stay in hospital was just
on a fortnight. They are all native speakers of English and their ages ranged from mid-40s to
early 60s.
120 Helen Tebble
The recruitment of the patients who participated in the project was undertaken by a male
consultation-liaison psychiatrist who administered the Brief Case-Find for Depression (BCD)
(Clarke, McKenzie, Marshall, & Smith, 1994; Jefford et al., 2004). The BCD is a short screening
instrument that takes about a minute to administer and identiﬁes depression in the medically ill. ‘‘It
is a clinician-completed four question instrument intended to be administered during the course of
a normal clinical interview’’ (Jefford et al., 2004, p. 901). The results enabled the patients to
be classiﬁed as depressed (the study group) or non-depressed (the control group) without detailing
the nature of their depression which could be revealed in a classic psychiatric interview.
5. DATA COLLECTION AND METHODOLOGY
The data comprise bedside interviews between each patient and the same consultation-liaison
psychiatrist. Each interview was audio-recorded and lasted for about 30 minutes. The method
of elicitation was the same, all commencing with the same framed request by the psychiatrist:
Mr/Mrs X, what I’d like you to do is just tell me how you’ve been unwell and in particular how
that’s made you feel. Neither the patient nor the interviewing psychiatrist was told which patients
had been deemed to be depressed or otherwise. In each interview the psychiatrist sought personal
descriptions of the patient’s experiences of their illness and the resultant feelings which may well
have revealed their being depressed. There was minimal intervention by the psychiatrist.
Each interview was transcribed to the level of the tone group (Halliday, 1994) using Conver-
sation Analysis following Sacks, Schegloff, and Jefferson (1977) modiﬁed for use in linguistics
after Tebble (1992). Each transcription was checked by a second transcriber; any discrepancies
were discussed by both transcribers and modiﬁed after further listening and agreement. Both
transcribers were native speakers of English.
Each interview was subjected to an Appraisal analysis for the systems of attitude, graduation
and engagement. Given that the patients were asked about their feelings, the analysis was focused
especially on the subsystems of affect, judgement and appreciation and the use of graduation.
Each item analysed by one linguist for its Appraisal features was checked by a second linguist. As
with the transcriptions any discrepancies were checked and discussed before agreeing on a ﬁnal
analysis. The semantic tables provided in particular by Martin and Rose (2007) and Martin and
White (2005) for Appraisal Analysis comprise categories of lists of words without contexts and
these were used with two perspectives: ‘‘an on-line perspective which processes signiﬁcance
dynamically and an overview perspective which construes it synoptically’’ (Macken-Horarik,
2003, p. 316). One analyst systematically worked through the text carefully labelling each tone
group according to its category of Appraisal and then modiﬁed the Appraisal labels if necessary in
the light of a lengthier contextual reading of the transcription. The second analyst checked the
revised line-by-line Appraisal analysis and also took into account the occurrences of symptoms of
Subjectivity in the discourse of depressed acute care hospital patients 121
depression through the generic stages of the transcription to identify the co-occurrence of
Appraisal values, inscribed and invoked, with the features of depression.
Every utterance was analysed according to the Appraisal Analysis categories or subsystems
and labelled within the text as shown in the following examples.
(1) High graduation, negative affect, negative judgement and engagement by disclaiming
through denial
P: {it could have been a severe [force: raise]
depression [-affect: unhappiness: normality]
IþI was experiencing and I was not [disclaim: deny]
aware of it} [-judgement: self-esteem: capacity] (46M:6)
Example (1) is a statement by the patient (46M). It shows him reporting that he believed he could
have been severely depressed but was personally unaware of the negative mood state at the time of
the condition. The lexical items ‘‘severe’’, ‘‘depression’’ and ‘‘not’’ are bolded to indicate they are
individually assigned an Appraisal evaluation while the pair of braces { } are used to indicate that the
whole utterance also merits an Appraisal evaluation.1
The minus sign refers to both a negative mood
state (affect) and to negative self-esteem (judgement). He uses a strong (semantically raised)
adjective ‘‘severe’’ to grade the seriousness of his depression. In terms of engagement the statement
has the patient disclaiming and using grammatical negation ‘‘not’’ to deny his awareness of his likely
serious mental condition. He believed that his depression was likely to have been so severe and of
such an implied habitual state that he did not even realise that he was depressed.
(2) High graduation, negative appreciation, negative judgement and engagement for
entertaining and proclaiming through concurring
P: {and I stood on that
and that’s what started me off I think [entertain]
bashed [force: high] my knees
did considerable [force: high] damage [-appreciation: valuation] to knees
and then of course [concur] the arthritis started}
[-judgement: implicit: patient’s normality: unfortunate]
(34M:5)
A major work accident experienced by the patient (34M) causes him to ‘‘think’’, to entertain
the idea, that it was the origin of his illness. His semantic choice of ‘‘bashed’’ within the system of
graduation is high. The injury, the damage to his knees is negatively valued, not appreciated. His
statement is a negative judgement implying that the arthritis that has occurred subsequently and
now disables him, due to the accident that considerably damaged his knees.
1
Transcription and analytical conventions are presented in detail at the end of the chapter.
122 Helen Tebble
For comparative purposes the structure of the interviews was kept to a similar pattern
enabling them to have their own particular generic structure. The method of generic analysis
follows the SFL theory of Halliday and Hasan (1985); and for these interviews, Hirsh (2001)
and Tebble (1992, 1999). The generic structure potential is a summary of the sequence of
obligatory and optional elements that constitute the main stages of the interview and can be
shown as a formula. The interviews were planned to elicit the patient’s description of their
illness and their feelings about it. Given that the Brief Case-Find deemed the three patients as
depressed it was anticipated that the depressed patients’ language would reveal some insights
into the way depressed acute care ward patients would use language when talking about their
condition.
6. FINDINGS
The symptoms of depression that were common to the three patients are discussed here. After
providing an outline of the content of each interview, the common structure of the research
interview in the form of its generic structure is described and the optional genre element for each
interview is discussed. The main symptoms of depression that all patients shared are discussed
and samples of their analysed language of depression are used to illustrate them.
6.1. The patients
The synopses of the three interviews highlight each patient’s social context and the background
to which they attribute their illnesses. Since it is not possible for ethical reasons to include a full
transcription, the case studies serve as a reference for the symptoms of depression that were found
to be common among the patients.
Patient 22F is a 43 year old widow with ﬁve children. She has diabetes and was told near
the start of the new year that she needs to have triple bypass heart surgery. As a current acute
care patient she is to have surgery for glass to be removed from her foot and to ensure that she
is free from infection in readiness for heart surgery. This will require a delay of six to eight
weeks before she can have the major operation. Her interview reveals her great worry that she
will not live long enough to have the heart surgery because her family on both sides has a very
considerable history of deaths due to heart disease. She mentions her many other worries
especially concerning her children, not the least of which is leaving them without a parent. She
outlines a period of about sixteen months when her immediate and extended family had about
nine deaths including her husband and mother, the loss of her business, and other losses
including the family pet, a prepaid holiday and the serious diminution of her health. There is no
reference to grief but a determination to get through each day caring for her school age children
Subjectivity in the discourse of depressed acute care hospital patients 123
and to worry about many things. In hospital now unable to look after her children there is a
new male friend in the background who has taken over the role of caring for her children and
for her.
Patient 34M is a sixty-one year old male patient who twenty years ago had a workplace accident
which necessitated two knee replacements. He has had arthritis for twenty years and has been in
constant severe pain. He now has osteoporosis. He has had surgery on his knees and neck to
stabilise them. He is an acute care patient admitted to hospital because of lower back problems.
He has just been advised that he will probably need another operation. He is married with three
adult sons and has taken early retirement from his work as a tradesman for which he had a
supervisory role.
Patient 46M is a cardiac patient previously admitted to the acute care wards with a history of
angina. He is a father of nine children and described his very turbulent marriage, its breakdown
and the divorce as having had a major negative impact on his health, having already taken early
retirement on an invalid superannuation due to his ill health. His cardiologist insisted that he
lead a near ‘‘stress free’’ life but his wife did not make that possible. He described how his wife
would take the children away from the home to her relatives’ home in the country or to
women’s refuges so often that he lost count of the number of times, possibly even more than
twenty times. He would come home from work or an errand she had sent him on, only to ﬁnd
they had gone. Each time this discovery was a traumatic event for him whose impact never
diminished. He sought help but got none, had threats and intervention orders against him and
lost custody of his children. He had been so upset by everything that he contemplated
committing murder. Eventually his children insisted that he act, take them away from their
mother, divorce her, get the police to remove her as they had had enough of her. Their education
had been wrecked and none of the older children had ﬁnished school. He did gain custody of all
his children and the mother was only allowed to see the children for outings as he decided. He
had been depressed for most of this turbulent period with one break which he describes. His
depression had not disappeared and he regarded the healing as ‘‘taking a long long time’’
because although he had solved the problem of ‘‘getting rid’’ of his wife by divorcing her and
gaining custody of the children he could not stop dwelling on the fact that she had ‘‘ruined’’ his
children’s lives.
6.2. Generic structure of the research interview
The generic structure for the psychiatric research interviews used to elicit the patients’
language of depression was found to comprise ﬁve stages or genre elements (Halliday & Hasan,
1985; Tebble, 1999) as shown in Figure 6.1.
All interviews commenced with the opening obligatory stage, the Framing Request (FR), in
which the interviewing psychiatrist requested information about the patient’s illness and their
124 Helen Tebble
feelings about it: Mr/Mrs X, what I’d like you to do is just tell me how you’ve been unwell and
how that has made you feel. This initial request served to frame the interview by announcing its
topic and giving the direction for the interview. The next stage, Negotiating the Request (NR), was
initiated by the patient and is an optional stage in which the patient negotiates the meaning of the
framing request, seeking clariﬁcation about how to respond to it. Patient 22F did not negotiate
how to respond to the framing request but moved straight onto the next stage; but patient 34M
used an ellipted question for the stage (NR) to which the interviewing psychiatrist gave an open
ended reply:
(3) (34M:1)
P: you want me to start at the start
the beginning like when I ﬁrst started to get unwell
D: whatever you like
Patient 46M however took four turns at talk to negotiate the meaning of the framing request
to which the interviewing psychiatrist gave four corresponding responses before the patient felt
satisﬁed about how to respond to it. The third stage, [R1þR2], Response 1 and Response 2, is
the obligatory stage in which the patient addresses both parts of the framing request, providing
fairly succinct information about both their illness, R1, and how they felt about it, R2. The
fourth stage, D, Description, forms most of the interview in which the interviewing psychiatrist
elicits with minimal wording the patient’s more detailed response especially about R2 by
elaborating, exemplifying, recounting and further describing how they feel about their
condition.
6.3. Symptoms of depression
The subjective lowering of mood, a core symptom3
of depression, a persistent feeling of
sadness, of depression, was a feature all three patients reported as experiencing. Not having had
any psychological help during his years of seriously disturbed domestic life patient 46M strongly
held the view, as in examples (4) and (5), that you don’t know you have depression when you are
FR^(NR)^[R1+R2]^D
Figure 6.1. Generic structure potential for project’s interviews.2
2
The list of symbols used appears at the end of the chapter.
3
Underlined are symptoms of depression linguistically encoded as either inscribed or invoked appraisal
in the patients’ utterances.
Subjectivity in the discourse of depressed acute care hospital patients 125
depressed. On reﬂection he thought he had severe depression but he described how he was able to
function daily. The company he worked for retired him early on an invalid superannuation-this
was the ﬁrst mention of his depression.
(4) (46M:5)
that had aþ.hhh uh somewhat [force: lower] deþdepressing
[-affect: unhappiness: insecurity: sad] effect on me
now I say [attribute: acknowledge] depressing [-affect:
unhappiness: insecurity: misery] effect because although I was
in severe [force: raise] depression [-affect: unhappiness:
insecurity: misery]
.hhh for something like [entertain] twO yEArs [force: raise]
I wasn’t [disclaim: deny] awAre of it
.hhh and umþþ during this period of time although [disclaim:
counter]þyou get on with the normal day to dayþchores or
going on walking onþshopping travelling on a bus or train
.hhh it appears [entertain] to be nOrmal [þ judgement:
normality] [force: raise] {but [disclaim: counter]þit’s not
normal} [-judgement: normality] [force: raise]
(5) (46M:24)
I suffered depression [-affect: unhappiness: melancholy]
{without realising} [-judgement: capacity: unaware] it
[-affect: unhappiness: depression]
because {I don’t [disclaim: deny] know} [-judgement: capacity: unaware] if
anybody [force: raise]
.hhh who suf þsuffers depression [-affect: unhappiness: melancholy]
is aware of it [-affect: unhappiness: depression]
þ you know [proclaim: concur]
‘till [force: raise] after it’s [-affect: unhappiness: depression] over
. . .
{I don’t [disclaim: deny] think you knOW [force: raise] you’re
suffering it [-affect: unhappiness: depression]
because .hhh you’re not aþyou’re not the same pErson um
.hhh u:mþpErsonality wise} [-judgement: normality]
For Patient 46M the mood state of depression is unhappiness and it seems to take such
a grip that it becomes normal, changing the person who is not even aware of their being
depressed.
Patient 34M admitted that there have been times when he has ‘‘been a little bit dePRESSed’’
(example 6), even on hearing the news of his likely operation:
126 Helen Tebble
(6) (34M:3)
in fact I got a bit [force: low] depressed [-affect: unhappiness: misery]
{after hearing what the DOCtor’s just [focus: soften] told me now} [-judgement: own
normality: unfortunate]
He took a realistic approach admitting that ‘‘at timesþthere’s no doubt about it you get you DO
get a bit depressed’’ (34M:3). However unlike Patient 46M, he seems not to let it get hold of him:
‘‘you know something’ll always come up and you take your mind away from it all’’ (34M:3).
With regard to his doctor’s news he resolutely ‘pronounces’:
(7) (34M:3)
{I’ll get over that I know I’ll get over that it’s not [deny]
not [deny] REally [force: high] wOrrying [-affect: unhappiness]
me too much [force: high] that er
.hhh it’s going to have a lasting [force: high] effect on me}
[þjudgement: patient’s tenacity: resolute]
Both patients’ (34M and 22F) sense of depression did not extend to suicide. But it was
associated with the question ‘‘why me?’’ which signals in their interviews the depressive symptom
of helplessness. Patient 34M described the feeling of depression as ‘‘a sort of a sAd feeling’’, ‘‘a
real sad feeling’’, ‘‘not to the extent that I’d want to do anything about it or anything like that’’
(suicide), ‘‘just feel sa:d that I suppose a little bit of why me’’ . . . ‘‘yeah why me: (34M:14), a
sense of self-pity and helplessness.
Patient 22F during her interview was constantly listing her worries and declaring herself to be a
worrier, and also said that she had been depressed, ‘‘not suicidal just depressed, the er why me’’
(22F:17). She described the feeling of depression this way: ‘‘if they said they are going to drop an
atomic bomb I wouldn’t care less but if some said here’s a gun or a knife or tablets no I haven’t
got that in me to end that’’ (22F:17–18) and she emphatically declared that she doesn’t even think
about ‘‘doing anything stupid’’, meaning ‘suicide’ (22F:18).
On the topic of suicide in the interview with patient 46M the psychiatrist observed, ‘‘you
thought of doing yourself in’’ to which he responded:
(8) (46M:12–13)
not [disclaim: deny] at all [force: raise]
{I thought [irrealis affect] of doing hEr in} [invoked -judgement: esteem: tenacity]
He emphatically intended to live and knew his life would be much improved if his wife moved out
of his sphere.
The limitations on their daily lives caused by their disabilities, both physical and social, render
the three patients feeling helpless, at times making them judge themselves as incompetent or
Subjectivity in the discourse of depressed acute care hospital patients 127
incapable (the ‘why me?’ self-pity mentioned previously) and so not being able to value
themselves as they would wish. Patient 46M felt helpless because he couldn’t get any external
or legal help to solve his wife’s disappearing acts.
(9) (46M:11)
{I couldn’t [disclaim: deny] get help from anybody [force: raise]} [-judgement: capacity]
especially [force: raise] the police you know [proclaim: concur]
.hhh nobody [disclaim: deny] seemed [entertain] to be able toþhelp me
His disclaiming by denial and his use of raised graduation reinforce his negative judgement
that reﬂects on himself and the legal system: that they were incapable of helping to solve his
problems.
All three patients expressed anger or irritability at the impact of their illness/disability on their
lives. Patient 34M would get annoyed and frustrated (example 10); Patient 22F would get ‘mad’;
while Patient 46M, so frustrated by his family circumstances, would not only get mad, he thought
about committing mass murder (example 12).
Patient 34M instead of getting depressed at times he gets ‘‘a bit annoyed with the fact that [he]
CAN’T do the things [he]’d like to DO’’ (34M:6). Later in his interview he really emphasises the
strength of his annoyance:
(10) (34M:21)
it’s {just [focus: soften] not [deny] being able to umþdo the things that I’d like}
[irrealis -affect: desire] to do
maintenance-wise and things around the house
. . .
help with the gArden
{it’s all [force: high] left up to my wife} [invoked -judgement: capacity]
I get a bit [force: low] depressed [-affect: unhappiness: dissatisﬁed: angry] when I see
HER out
.hhh trying to do the things that I should [pronounce] be doing
you know [concur]
that annoys [-affect: dissatisfaction] me
it anNOYs [-affect: dissatisfaction] [force: high] me I think [entertain] more than
depresses [-affect: unhappiness: misery] me
it anNOYs [-affect: dissatisfaction] [force: high] me that I think [irrealis þaffect: desire]
that I can’t [deny] DO it
His annoyance is an expression of negative affect and he implicitly negatively judges himself in
terms of how normal and capable he is: deeming himself to be unfortunate and useless. Rather
than become miserable about his misfortune he is angry.
128 Helen Tebble
With imminent heart surgery Patient 22F describes how she gets short of breath and has ﬂuid
retention which makes her ‘‘tired’’ and ‘‘exhausted’’, unable to ‘‘do any housework’’ and ‘‘that
makes me mad’’ (22F:11). She makes an implicit negative judgement on her capacity because she
is ill; and expresses negative affect in the form of anger because she is incapacitated.
For patient 46M, he was reaching the end of his tether:
(11) (46M:16–17)
I could feel that my whole [force: raise] world was collapsing
[-appreciation: decomposition] [invoked -judgement: normality: disintegration]
my health was failing [-judgement: normality: unwell]
.hhh eh mþI couldn’t [disclaim: deny] sleep
{I was walking up and down} [invoked -affect: unhappiness: insecurity: agitation]
{I was thinking of committing hari kari} ((Probably mayhem rather than suicide))
[irrealis -affect: inclination: desire: dissatisfaction:fury] [focus: sharpen]
{I was conþcontemplating mAss murder} [irrealis -affect: inclination: desire:
dissatisfaction: fury] [force: quantiﬁcation]
. . .
I was so [force: raise] mAd [-affect: dissatisfaction: angry]
you know [proclaim: concur]
I was getting so [force: raise] mAd [-affect: dissatisfaction] with her
so this must [proclaim: pronounce] have been having some [force: lower] sort of
[focus: soften] bAd [-appreciation: reaction] effEct on me
mUst [proclaim: pronounce] have been
.hhh and ehþmy daughter wasþyou know [proclaim: concur]þreally
[force: raise] feelingþbAd [-affect: insecurity: disquiet: anxious] about it
{because she could see meþyou know [proclaim: concur]þsort of
[focus: soften]þfalling to pieces [-appreciation: decomposition]}
[invoked -judgement: normality: tragic]
Patient 46M’s whole world was disintegrating, physically and mentally. His mood state was
overwhelmed with extreme negative thoughts of killing and negative feelings of anger and fury.
The intense negative affect of dissatisfaction and unhappiness he claims must have had a negative
impact on him.
Even though his marital problems were solved, he divorced and he had sole custody of his
children, as an acute care patient, Patient 46M felt he had been scarred by the great ordeal he had
been through. In terms of appraisal analysis he is still engaged in negative thinking and presents as
unhappy, dissatisﬁed and in concluding his interview invokes a sense of despondency. His
subjectivity illustrates the most negative thinking of the three patients. Compare (12).
Subjectivity in the discourse of depressed acute care hospital patients 129
(12) (46M:32)
you see how the children’s lives have been rUIned and shattered [-appreciation: reaction
to quality; and composition: broken beyond repair] and {that good feeling you have is
taken away} again [-affect: unhappiness: dissatisfaction] [force: raise]
. . .
so you {can’t really be happy} [-affect: unhappiness: dissatisfaction] [force: raise]
you {can’t be very satisﬁed} [-affect: unhappiness: dissatisfaction] [force: raise]
you {can’tþI can’t stop cursing that woman you know} [force: raise]
[-affect: unhappiness: dissatisfaction] [proclaim: concur]
the children can’t stop cursing her [force: raise] [-affect: unhappiness: dissatisfaction]
{she’s ruined ourþour lives} [-judgement: esteem: normality] {she’s ruinedþso much}
[-judgement: esteem: normality] [force: raise]
All three subsystems of his use of attitude (appreciation, affect and judgement) are negative; the
meanings of graduation are all of increased strength intensifying the negativity; the modal verbs
are negated; and the highest negative intensity is in the lexical choices of ‘‘ruined’’ and
‘‘shattered’’. Negativity truly dominates Patient 46M’s attitude to his former wife.
Two patients each had a single feature of depression that neither of the other two had displayed
in their interview. They were loss of interest and guilt. Although acknowledging his depression
one patient was more like the non-depressed patients – in that he was developing ways of coping
with depression.
Patient 46M was able to describe the other core feature of depression, a loss of interest in not
only the upkeep of his house and garden; but also a loss of real interest in his (nine) children and
in his relationships with other people only because he had a sudden period of not being depressed
after two and a half years since retirement and constant domestic turmoil. By describing the good
state that he was in he could by implication describe what he felt when he was depressed.
Depression was like ‘‘wearing dArk glasses’’ (46M:25) but without them ‘‘everything’s so bright
and bEAUtiful’’ (46M:25). He saw his house in a different way. ‘‘I don’t know how to express it
to you in other words . . . it was just different (it was) totally different)’’ (46M:27). He thought of
the many things he hadn’t done: ‘‘the garden . . . needed ﬁxing up’’, ‘‘parts of the house needed
painting’’, ‘‘the gate needed ﬁxing’’ (46M:28). Then he thought of his children:
(13) (46M:28–29)
are these my childrenþyou know [proclaim: concur]
.hhh they’ve grown up so [force: raise] much [force: raise]
and {I haven’t [disclaim: deny] realised} [-judgement: capacity]
that they’ve grown up
. . .
it dawned on me that so much [force: raise] needed to doþbe done and um
.hhh I felt like I wanted [irrealis þaffect: inclination: desire] to do it all [force: raise]
130 Helen Tebble
This realisation he has invokes a negative judgement on his capacity as a father not to have really
been aware of his children’s development but he responds positively. And he did make an effort,
buying tools and paint, building shelves and furniture, never having done carpentry in his life
before and receiving high praise from relatives for the professional quality of his work. This
period of activity and interest in his house and children:
(14) (46M:31)
wasn’t [disclaim: deny] to last very [force: raise] long
she started up her rubbish [-judgement: propriety] again [force: raise] (and nonsense
[-judgement: normality] and)
and slowly [force: low] I felt myself SINking [-affect: insecurity: disquiet] into that
.hhh bArrel [force: median] of depression [-affect: unhappiness: misery] hh or the
sea [force: high] of depression
[-affect] if you like[proclaim: concur]
Patient 46M’s experience of his wife’s past history conjures up such a negative assessment of her
impropriety and aberrant behaviour that it is so threatening and destabilising that he sinks back not
into an encompassing depression but into the depths of misery, ‘‘a sea of depression’’.
Even though his marital problems were eventually solved, he divorced and he had sole
custody of his children, as an acute care patient he (Patient 46M) felt he had been scarred by the
great ordeal he had been through. In terms of Appraisal Analysis he is still engaged in negative
thinking and presents as unhappy, dissatisﬁed and in concluding invokes a sense of
despondency.
(15) (46M)
you see how the children’s lives have been rUIned and shattered [-appreciation: reaction
to quality; and composition: broken beyond repair] and that {good feeling you have is
taken away} again . . . [-affect: unhappiness: dissatisfaction] [force: raise]
Patient 22F’s feelings of depression hint at a sense of guilt: ‘‘I feel like um I’ve
probably þ done þ something bAd that I’m getting punished for’’ (22F:18). As a younger acute
care patient she felt guilty and became depressed by the judgemental looks from older patients’
visitors when at times she felt well enough to walk around the ward.
(16) (22F:13)
{.hhh and you see the visitors come in for their elderly relatives
.hhh and um you can see on their faces [acknowledge] thinking oh what’s she doing in
here she’s able to walk around} [heterogloss: -judgement: capacity]
.hhh {you feel like you shouldn’t [deny] be there} [-affect: impropriety]
.hhh and {you’re not [deny] sick} [-affect: impropriety]
.hhh and that makes you depressed [-affect: unhappiness: insecure]
Subjectivity in the discourse of depressed acute care hospital patients 131
Her feelings of being negatively judged by others and giving in to them reﬂects more than the
guilt she felt walking around when she felt a bit better. Her self-esteem is frail.
Patient 34M mentioned several strategies he used to cope with depression. They included
encountering patients who were far worse off than himself physically such as amputees but who
coped; or acute care patients who themselves had dying spouses and who were coping. He also
had support from his family: ‘‘I’ve got my wife .hhh I’ve got three sons and everything you know
and they really uh .hhh get me out of it if I get depressed’’ (34M:6).
7. CONCLUSION
In this chapter the language of the core symptoms of depression were identiﬁed and analysed
in the discourse of three acute care ward patients. The patients’ use of appraisal revealed their
low mood state and loss of interest. Other symptoms of depression in common were anger and
helplessness. All three patients were strongly against considering suicide. One had strategies
for coping with depression. Another was burdened with worry and expressed a sense of guilt.
Negative thinking permeated the patients’ affective states, their judgements of themselves and
others, and the intensity of their evaluations. These interviews provide compelling evidence for
the mental health of acute care patients to be checked and attended to for depression. Appraisal
analysis can be helpful in sorting through the meaning of the discourse semantics of depressed
acute care patients when they talk about their illness and how it has impacted on their daily life. It
will be useful in the compilation of typical lexical items, collocations and grammatical features
that characterise the various symptoms of depression in English speaking patients. Martin and
White (2005) acknowledge that their semantic categories and lexical entries serve as a framework
which can be further reﬁned. Although each patient has their own experience to relate and their
own manner of speaking, the ways patients express their mood states, their appreciation and their
judgement of themselves and of others together with the degree of intensity with which they grade
their meanings, are worthy of continuing analysis as in the Language of Depression project.
Enabling its analytic ﬁndings to be converted into materials to enhance the rigour of the courses
for the trainee psychologist and psychiatrist, and acute care staff, with the ultimate goal of
reducing the anguish of the depressed acute care patient is our goal.
LIST OF SYMBOLS, TRANSCRIPTION AND ANALYTICAL CONVENTIONS
Generic structures
LoD Language of Depression
^ Read sequence from left to right
132 Helen Tebble
[ ] Items are restrained
( ) Optional
þ And
Transcription conventions
þ Short untimed pause
þþ Longer untimed pause
(1.2) Pause measured in seconds
: Lengthening of sound
.hhh Audible intake of breath
hh Audible exhalation of breath
( ) Transcription is uncertain
(( )) Transcriber’s remarks
CAPS Stressed syllable except for 1st person pronoun ‘I’ which is bolded when stressed. The
letter ‘r’ in stressed syllables has not been capitalised to distinguish Australian English
from North American varieties of English.
D: Doctor, who is the interviewing psychiatrist
P: Patient
The tone group (and the foot) (Halliday, 1994) are not numbered or demarcated by slashes but are
usually written on a new line.
Analytical conventions
again Bolded words whose speciﬁc appraisal is indicated within square brackets
þ Positive appraisal
 Negative appraisal
[ ] Speciﬁc appraisal categories from general to more speciﬁc
{ } Analysis applies to all wording contained within braces
. . . Text omitted as not relevant to micro-analysis
(22F:3) Source of data: patient number, sex, transcription page number
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
I acknowledge with gratitude the patients and psychiatrist who were willing to share
their recorded interviews for linguistic analysis in the endeavour to describe the language of
Subjectivity in the discourse of depressed acute care hospital patients 133
depression; and the psychiatrist who recruited the patients. I sincerely thank in particular my
colleagues: psychiatrist, Professor David Clarke, and linguist, Dr David Caldwell, for their
contributions to the Language of Depression project. I also acknowledge Deakin University and
Monash University for the award of several research grants to fund the Language of Depression
research project.
REFERENCES
American Psychiatric Association. (2000). American psychiatric association task force on DSM-IV. In
Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders: DSM-IV-TR (4th ed.). Washington, DC:
American Psychiatric Association.
beyondblue. (2011, October 14). beyondblue: The national depression initiative (Australia). Retrieved from
www.beyondblue.org.au/
Caldwell, D. (2006). The language of well-being. MA thesis. Deakin University, Melbourne.
Caldwell, D., Tebble, H., & Clarke, D. M. (2006). The language of subjective well-being. In J. Blore,
A. Gluskie, A., & Y. MacKay (Eds.), Proceedings, 7th Australian annual conference on the quality of
life. Deakin University, Melbourne. Retrieved from http://acqol.deakin.edu.au/Conferences/
Clarke, D. M., McKenzie, D. P., Marshall, R. J., & Smith, G. C. (1994). The construction of a brief
case-ﬁnding instrument for depression in the physically ill. Integrative Psychiatry, 10, 117–123.
Compton, W. C. (2005). Introduction to positive psychology. South Melbourne: Thomson/Wadsworth.
Depression Perception. (2012). Depression Facts & Statistics 2012 [USA]. Retrieved from http://
www.depressionperception.com/depression/depression-facts-and-statistics.html
Fine, J. (2006). Language in psychiatry: A handbook of clinical practice. London: Equinox.
Halliday, M. A. K. (1994). An introduction to functional grammar (2nd ed.). London: Edward Arnold.
Halliday, M. A. K., & Hasan, R. (1985). Language, context, and text: Aspects of language in a social-semiotic
perspective. Geelong: Deakin University.
Hirsh, D. (2001). Interpersonal features of talk in interpreted medical consultations. MA thesis. Deakin
University, Melbourne.
Jefford, M., Mileshkin, L., Richards, K., Thomson, J., Matthews, J.P., Zalcberg, J., . . . Clarke, D. M. (2004).
Rapid screening for depression – Validation of the Brief Case-Find for Depression (BCD) in medical
oncology and palliative care. British Journal of Cancer, 91, 900–906.
Macken-Horarik, M. (2003). Envoi: Intractable issues in appraisal analysis? Text, 23(2), 313–319.
Martin, J. R. (1995). Interpersonal meaning, persuasion, and public discourse: Packing semiotic punch.
Australian Journal of Linguistics, 15, 3–67.
Martin, J. R. (2001). Beyond exchange: Appraisal systems in English. In S. Hunston & G. Thompson (Eds.),
Evaluation in text: Authorial stance and the construction of discourse (pp. 142–175). Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Martin, J. R., & Rose, D. (2007). Working with discourse: Meaning beyond the clause (2nd ed.). London:
Continuum.
Martin, J. R., & White, P. P. R. (2005). The language of evaluation: Appraisal in English. Basingstoke, UK:
Palgrave Macmillan.
134 Helen Tebble
Möller, H. J. & Henkel, V. (2005). What are the most effective diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for the
management of depression in specialist care? Copenhagen: WHO Regional Ofﬁce for Europe (Health
Evidence Network report). Retrieved from www.euro.int/document/e86602.pdf
Murray, C. J. L., & Lopez, A. D. (Eds.). (1996). The global burden of disease – A comprehensive assessment
of mortality and disability from diseases injuries, and risk factors in 1990 and projected to 2020.
Boston, MA: Harvard School of Public Health.
National Health Service (NHS, UK) Information Centre for Health and Social Care, Social Care Statistics.
(2009). Adult psychiatric morbidity in England, 2007 – Results of a household survey. Retrieved from
www.ic.nhs.uk/webﬁles/publications/mental%20health/other%20mental%20health%20publications/
Adult%20psychiatric%20morbidity%2007/APMS%2007%20(FINAL)%20standard.pdf
National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH, USA). (2011, 2 January). Leading individual diseases/ disorders.
Retrieved from http://www.nimh.nih.gov/statistics/2LIDD.shtml
Rude, S., Gortner, E.-M., & Pennebaker, J. W. (2004). Language use of depressed and depression-vulnerable
college students. Cognition and Emotion, 18(8), 1121–1133.
Sacks, H., Schegloff, E. A., & Jefferson, G. (1977). A simplest systematics for the organization of turn
taking in conversation. In J. Schenkein (Ed.), Studies in the organization of conversational Interaction
(pp. 7–55). New York, NY: Academic Press.
Tebble, H. (1992). The genre element in the systems analyst’s interview. Australian Review of Applied
Linguistics, 15(2), 120–136.
Tebble, H. (1999). The tenor of consultant physicians: Implications for medical interpreting. The Translator,
5(2), 179–200.
World Health Organisation (WHO). (2010). WHO simpliﬁes treatment of mental and neurological disorders.
Retrieved from http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/releases/2010/mental_health_20101007/en/
index.html
Subjectivity in the discourse of depressed acute care hospital patients 135
This page intentionally left blank
Part II
LANGUAGE CONTACT SETTINGS
This page intentionally left blank
Subjectivity in Language and in Discourse
Edited by Nicole Baumgarten, Inke Du Bois and Juliane House
r 2012 by Emerald Group Publishing Limited. All rights reserved.
7
SUBJECTIVITY IN ENGLISH LINGUA FRANCA
INTERACTIONS
Juliane House
In this chapter I will ﬁrst clarify the meaning of subjectivity in the context of this chapter.
Secondly, I will deal with the phenomenon English as a lingua franca (ELF) and give a brief
description of the research into the pragmatics of ELF interactions. Thirdly, I will look at how
certain discourse phenomena in ELF interactions can be interpreted as expressing subjectivity.
Fourthly and ﬁnally, I will draw a brief conclusion.
1. WHAT IS ‘SUBJECTIVITY’?
The concept of subjectivity was probably ﬁrst introduced by Benveniste (1966). In his theory
of performativity, Benveniste deﬁned subjectivity as the ability of a speaker to present himself or
herself in and through language as a ‘subject’ and to indicate his or her attitude towards, and
assessment of, the proposition in an utterance s/he is enunciating. Benveniste set up what he
called an ‘apparatus of enunciation’ which contains linguistic elements that mark the deictic
connection with a particular situation of enunciation. Prototypically deictic elements are those
that point to things which are physically present in a face-to-face situation, examples being the
deictic pronoun I, as well as the local and temporal adverbs here and now. Apart from these
elements, particles derived from these prototypes such as you, over there, immediately or certain
adverbial expressions of opinion (in my opinion, honestly, etc.) also function as deictics. As
opposed to such deictic referencing, anaphoric referencing indicates antecedent occurrences in a
text or discourse and is used to achieve completeness. One may posit, however, a continuity
between deictic and anaphoric referencing, because whenever deictic elements are used in any
text or discourse, one cannot assume a zero-point of an utterance. Referencing cannot only
involve the visible physical environment but also mental representations, which have recently
been extensively examined by Smith (2003). She described such referencing as subjectivity ﬁrstly
in terms of point of view (in which a certain way of looking at what is expressed in a text or
discourse is revealed ‘directly’ in acts of communication and ‘indirectly’ as contents of mind and
evaluation), and secondly as perspective, which refers for instance to reports of personal
experience that may be direct, indirect or inferred. According to Smith, every linguistic element
can be used to express point of view or perspective because processes of thinking are always
involved.
In Systemic Functional Linguistics (cf. e.g. Halliday, 1994), subjectivity can be related to the
interpersonal metafunction of language and to the dimension tenor, and here speciﬁcally to
stance, i.e. the cognitive and affective attitude of a speaker towards the events and states of affairs
he or she is describing or using in an utterance as well as the attitude towards the language used in
the interaction. Subjectivity in this understanding also relates to the function certain linguistic
elements have in inﬂuencing the hearer or addressee in interaction such that there seems to be a
close relationship between subjectivity and intersubjectivity or addressee orientation since in any
interaction, speakers also use subjectivity-expressing linguistic means such as personal pronouns
or temporal or local adverbials in order to guide their interactants’ interpretation of certain events
and states of affairs.
Taken together, the expression of subjectivity – on many different linguistic levels, from the
phonological level to the discourse-pragmatic levels – can be seen as part of a speaker’s central
task of referencing and projecting his or her viewpoint, perspective, stance or positioning in the
discourse. Via this positioning speakers also manage to guide and inﬂuence their interactants’
inferencing and interpreting processes. Before considering the role and function of subjectivity in
English as lingua franca interactions, I will ﬁrst give a brief overview of this ﬁeld.
2. ENGLISH AS A LINGUA FRANCA (ELF)
English as a lingua franca (ELF) is a relatively new ﬁeld of enquiry but it is of great importance
given the continuing spread of English over many geographical and cultural areas and its
enormous functional and formal ﬂexibility. A major characteristic of ELF is its multiplicity of
voices. ELF is a language for communication, and a medium that can be – and increasingly is –
given substance with different national, regional, local and individual cultural identities.
Nevertheless, native pragmatic norms are often still maintained. When English is used in
interactions between, say, native (L1) speakers of German, Spanish and French, the differences in
interactional norms, standards of politeness, directness, values, feelings of cultural and historical
140 Juliane House
tradition may remain. These norms are not shared, nor need they be. Localized, regionalized or
otherwise appropriated varieties – whose linguistic surface is English, but whose speakers
creatively conduct pragmatic shifts in their use of this auxiliary language – are taking over the
linguistic landscape. Non-native speakers of English are developing their own discourse
strategies, speech act modiﬁcations, genres and communicative styles in their use of ELF.
As long as a threshold of understanding is achieved, ELF participants appear to adopt the let-it-
pass principle, an interpretive procedure which makes the interactional style ‘robust’, ‘normal’
and consensual (Firth, 1990, 1996). Adopting such a procedure may endanger effective
communication, as the superﬁcial consensus may mask deeper sources of trouble arising, for
instance, out of differences in linguaculturally based knowledge frames. However, ELF
interactions are found to be basically meaningful and ‘ordinary’. This ordinariness is a joint
achievement of interactants, who successfully engage in their interactional and interpretive work
in order to sustain the appearance of normality despite being exposed to each other’s relatively
‘abnormal’ linguistic behaviour. Achieving ordinariness is the direct outcome of the let-it-pass
procedure (Firth, 1990, 1996), which interactants resort to whenever understanding threatens to
become difﬁcult. Unclear talk is then routinely ‘passed’ over on the common-sense assumption
that, as the talk progresses, it will either eventually become clear or end up as redundant and thus
negligible. In other words, ELF interactants ﬁrstly develop a strategy of ‘pretending’ to
understand, by concealing unclarities as long as they are not forced to reveal their non-
understanding at some later stage of the talk. Secondly, the ‘ordinariness’ of ELF interaction is
achieved via a make-it-normal orientation (Firth, 1996), which implies that, faced with alter’s
marked lexical and phonological selections, unidiomatic phrasings, morphological vagaries and
idiosyncratic syntactic structuring, ELF speakers behave in such a way as to deliberately divert
attention from these infelicitous forms.
An important general characteristic of ELF talk that has come to the foreground more recently
is its inherent variability (Dewey, 2009; Firth, 2009). This variability is not to be equated with
ELF speakers’ failure to fulﬁl native norms, and their differential levels of competence in English.
Rather it lies at the core of ELF discourse, where speakers creatively exploit, intentionally
appropriate, locally adapt and communicatively align the potential inherent in the forms and
functions, items and collocations of the virtual English language they take recourse to in their
performance as the need arises (cf. Seidlhofer & Widdowson, 2007).
If ELF interactants do not seek to adjust to some real or imaginary native speaker norm, they
do not conceive of themselves as learners of English as a foreign language, rather as individual
ELF users united in different communities of practice (cf. House, 2003a) in the sense of Wenger
(1989) and Eckert and McConnell-Ginet (1992). The notion community of practice is most
appropriate for ELF in that the constitution of a community of practice is governed by a joint
purpose – to communicate efﬁciently in English as the agreed and chosen language of
communication without, however, heeding to or being constrained by English native norms.
Subjectivity in English lingua franca interactions 141
A project speciﬁcally concerned with discourse pragmatics is the Hamburg ELF project (cf.
e.g. Baumgarten & House, 2007, 2010; House, 2002, 2008, 2010; House & Lévy-Tödter, 2009,
2010). Here we have collected different types of data from international students of various
disciplines at the University of Hamburg: L1 English interactions, interactions between L1 and L2
(non-native) speakers of English, ELF interactions between speakers of many different L1s as
well as retrospective interviews for collaborative interpretation. Subjects were involved in 30-
minute self-initiated ELF interactions on the basis of a written textual trigger. We have also been
examining ELF talk in institutional discourse, particularly during ofﬁce hour interactions between
international students and their academic advisors, professors and post docs.1
The results of our analyses of this ELF data and ELF users’ reﬂections about their own
productions have revealed a number of characteristics of the use of ELF that point to ELF users’
deliberate strategies of expressions of subjectivity. They will be described in what follows.
3. SUBJECTIVITY IN ENGLISH AS LINGUA FRANCA INTERACTIONS
3.1. Code-switching as an expression of speakers’ subjectivity
One of the major indications of speakers’ subjective identiﬁcation with their linguistic origins
is their changing the language of interaction via acts of so-called code-switching. Excerpts (1) and
(2) are examples of how an academic advisor, a German professor (P), makes use of code-
switching to get his meaning across to the other two participants who are both also familiar with
the German language. WM, his assistant, is a native speaker of German, and the Spanish student
(S) has a working knowledge of German, the professor may have used code-switching as a
strategy to overcome his limitations in ELF which have become evident in the interaction at large
or as a sign of afﬁliation with his status as professor in a German university.
Excerpt (1)
1 P: (reads title softly) Yeah then just take this off
2 S: Yes
3 P: We’ll do it by quickly its
4 S: So I need to (0.5s) write¼
5 P: ¼Ja ja [yes yes]
6 S: This ofﬁce for uh (1s) they approve the new
7 P: Ja ja ja [yes yes yes]
1
This latter study (MuMiS, Mehrsprachigkeit und Multikulturalität im Studium [Multilingualism and
Multiculturalism in Study Programs]) is funded by the Volkswagen Foundation.
142 Juliane House
8 S: Without
9 WM: Without
10 P: Without this application always it it it it it is easily you
11 can design a a a a a a cantilever slab within one week
12 (0.5s) not more to do it¼
13 WM: ¼Or a shorter time
14 P: (fast) For a shorter everything ( . . . )
15 S: Erm
16 P: Joh ja können wir mal ruhig machen (to WM) [yes
17 yes we can certainly do this] it should be no problem
By using the German discourse marker ja (‘yes’/’yeah’) in lines 5 and 7, the professor (P) not only
indicates his own feeling of familiarity with the German language as opposed to ELF, he also
reassures the student (S) about the ease with which he might change the title of his work. This is
done automatically, quickly and subconsciously, and as soon as the phrase starting with the German
uptaker ja is uttered, a switchback into English occurs. In the last move in Excerpt (1) (line 16), P
again resorts to German – the usual mode of communication between him and his assistant (WM) –
in order to give a brief instruction, but in mid-utterance he again switches back to ELF.
Consider also Excerpt (2), in which another code-switching sequence occurs:
Excerpt (2)
1 P: Statements are sometimes aber [but] in general you just
2 say here for example the code something something
3 like this and then you you don’t say (0.5) basis is
4 maybe about this one they made some tests or
5 whatsoever or from the other equation you cannot read
6 I I think somewhere did did you cho this one is ok
7 (fast) in principle (fast) but the other equation the next
8 one the cc equation cc equation you to your code so
9 there must be some similarity there is literature
10 available about this (0.5) Mister [name] has made some
11 publication in Germany about this how he comes to this
12 number this is for example the big discussion the be the
13 debate about this number it is something which must be
14 in your thesis
15 S: (fast) Ja [yes] (fast)
16 P: Okay? for this YES and erm haben sie noch was nee
17 des is der erste Teil war fertig [anything else no this
18 is the ﬁrst part is ﬁnished]
19 WM: Ja [yes]
Subjectivity in English lingua franca interactions 143
In Excerpt (2), P’s switch into German in line 16 is followed up by WM’s uptake with the German
ja in line 19. P’s code-switching occurs at a critical point in the interaction in that it marks the end
of one part of the advising session where P asks whether the session should go on or not. We can
characterize P’s utterance as an organizational move and liken it to the type of ‘management talk’
which occurs in other instructional settings such as foreign language classrooms. Here, as in the
above advising talk, switching to a shared (and often more competently spoken) L1 of teacher and
learner occurs with great frequency (cf. e.g. Edmondson & House, 2006). Code-switching often
involves the use of discourse markers or gambits, in particular Uptakers (Edmondson & House,
1981). These elements usually occur as second-pair parts of an exchange, and are often expressed
with reduced monitoring of one’s own production, i.e. automatically, ‘off-guard’ and with little
conscious control. That switching into one’s mother tongue should occur in this particular
interactive slot is thus easily explained.
A similar ﬁnding of the use of L1 in code-switching in ELF talk is presented in Pölzl and
Seidlhofer (2006), where the authors document the use of Arabic gambits and other L1 discourse
phenomena in ELF talk. And Cogo (2009) also documents the use of code-switching in ELF
discourse. Interestingly, she also found that interactants sometimes switch not to their respective
L1s but to a third shared language.
The second strategy often found in ELF discourse is the use of the gambit Represent.
3.2. Strategic use of the multi-functional gambit Represent as an expression of subjectivity
In ELF talk, (parts of) previous speakers’ moves are often repeated or ‘represented’. The use of
the gambit Represent (Edmondson, 1981) can be interpreted as (a) a strategy with which speakers’
working memory in comprehension and production is deliberately supported, (b) a coherence-
creating strategy with which lexical-paradigmatic clusters are systematically built up for self and
alter, (c) a signal of receipt and a conﬁrmation of comprehension for one’s interactant and (d) a
meta-communicative procedure that strengthens interactants’ awareness of their own and others’
talk. All of these can be interpreted as a deliberate accommodative strategy to ELF speakers’
particular needs. Represents (also known as echo-, mirror- or shadow-elements) typically occur in
genres such as psycho-therapeutic interviews, instructional discourse and aircraft control
discourse, where information is deliberately and routinely restated to create coherence and
ensure understanding (House, 2002). The fact that ELF speakers use this convention to
accommodate to their own and their interactants’ perceived precarious ELF talk shows that their
strategic communicative competence is well developed indeed. Consider Excerpts (3) and (4):
Excerpt (3)
Joy: And you mean that English (2 sec) is really getting important or taken for the
education because the grammar is syntactic erm the grammar is very easy
Wei: Is easy is very easy
144 Juliane House
Excerpt (4)
Brit: And if erm things like Nigerian English, Indian English which is a sort of variety
in itself it should be respected
Mauri: Should be respected
Commenting on the use of Represents in a post-hoc interview, Joy, the Korean participant in Excerpt
(3), pointed out that the frequent use of Represents may have been due not only to interactants’
conscious attempt to support their own and others’ working memory and generally ease processing,
but may also be interpreted as a sign of Asian, and in particular Chinese, politeness, i.e. an explicitly
verbalized acknowledgement of one’s interlocutor’s message. However, Wei, the Chinese speaker,
contradicted this interpretation by stating that he had repeated his interactional partners’ words to
help himself formulate his own response. Wei therefore conﬁrms my own interpretation of the
function of these repetitions. In his retrospective interview, Mauri, the Indonesian speaker, declared
that it is more important to reach some sort of consensus in a discussion than to give direct answers
to particular questions. In his view, Represents was part of this consensus building strategy.
Can we then hypothesize the operation of transfer of L1 discourse norms into ELF discourse –
in this case by using Represents – as subtle stalling mechanisms in the service of politeness? In
order to be in a better position to answer this question, three additional 30-minute ELF
interactions were analysed, each featuring four non-Asian interactants of varying L1s (German,
French, Czech, Croatian), of the same educational level, age group and ELF competence. In these
interactions, the use of Represents was also found to be remarkably frequent (Excerpt (5)):
Excerpt (5)
Hilda: If you start speaking English in France they will answer you in French
Anne: Answer in French that that’s true
Sue: That’s true
Similar results concerning the frequency of repetition in ELF discourse have recently also been
found by Cogo and Dewey (2006), who have documented many instances of accommodation and
repetition in their analyses of ELF talk among participants with many different mother tongues,
and Cogo (2009), who also established the frequency of strategic repetitions in her analyses of
ELF interactions.
Another strategy of expressing subjectivity found to be frequently employed by ELF speakers
is their attempt to creatively re-interpret certain discourse markers commonly employed in English
L1 discourse.
3.3. Re-interpretation of discourse markers: you know, I mean, I think, yes, so as expressions
of subjectivity
3.3.1. you know. You know has been described in most of the pragmatics literature as a
basically interpersonal, other-oriented marker used as a hedge and signalling politeness
Subjectivity in English lingua franca interactions 145
(cf. e.g. Östman, 1981; Schiffrin, 1987; Stenström, 1994). In House (2009) the hypothesis was
put forward that you know is frequently re-interpreted by ELF interactants in such a way that
it becomes a more self-referenced, self-oriented way of highlighting a speaker’s formulation
difﬁculties and coherence relations in his or her own turns. The data for this study consists of
13 informal ELF conversations (6.5 hours of recorded and transcribed talk). Results of the
analyses show that (a) you know occurs with much greater frequency in so-called ‘considered
talk’ phases, as opposed to in ritualized phatic opening, closing and small talk phases; (b) the
more ﬂuent speakers are, the more they use you know and (c) most importantly, there is a
surprisingly frequent co-occurrence of you know and the conjunctions but, and, because.
When you know co-occurs with these conjunctions, it acts as a re-enforcing strategy, making
the connection expressed by these conjunctions more salient. You know is thus used as a
focussing device, making more salient the adversative, causal and additive relations expressed
by the conjunctions but, because, and and. Excerpt (6), in which participants discuss ELF in
German universities is an example of you know co-occurring with but in the sense described
above:
Excerpt (6)
Hilda: No matter how many people speak in the university they some of them speak really
well English but you know the real life it’s different and you
Sue: Yes (ehm)
Hilda: have to learn English
Anne: This institute where you’re working at is this the only possibility to erm to learn
English
A closer look at how the conjunctions but, because and and function in their co-occurrence
pattern with you know shows that these conjunctions tend to signal ‘‘externally operating
relations’’ located in the external context of what is being said (i.e. not the socio-communicative
process that constitutes the speech event in the forms of interaction between speaker and hearer,
which would be internal). In Martin’s (1992) approach, such external relations are by and large
oriented ideationally (referentially), whereas internal relations are oriented to genres in dialogic,
interpersonal modes.
In House (2009) it is claimed that in ELF talk you know in its catalyst functions for the
conjunctions but, and and because primarily marks ideational relations. The fact that you know
often co-occurs with conjunctions that signal experiential relations rather than addressee-related
ones seems to conﬁrm the hypothesis that you know is not primarily used interpersonally in ELF
talk. Interestingly, you know is also used on its own as a relational phrase in ELF talk, i.e. speakers
use it to indicate implicit conjunctive relations of addition (subcategorized as elaboration,
extension, expansion, sensu Halliday, 1994), contrast, opposition, concession and as causal
relations without the co-presence of the cue words and, but and because. The total co-occurrence
146 Juliane House
of you know and coherence relations with or without overt cue phrase in fact amounts to over 80%
of all instances of you know in this ELF data.
Finally, you know also functions as a coherence marker in a different sense: it is used
whenever the speaker seems to be painfully aware that he or she is momentarily ‘incoherent’,
cannot ﬁnd the right words, fumbles awkwardly for the appropriate formulation and tries to
repair his or her misstep using you know as a signal revealing such embarrassing planning
difﬁculties. In such cases, you know occurs in mid-utterance and also inside nominal, verbal and
adverbial groups, acting at a more local, micro level. Taken together, these ﬁndings show that in
ELF talk you know – despite the overt presence of you as second person personal pronoun in
this construction – does not seem to address co-participant(s) or elicit mutual engagement, and
no response from the addressees is expected or given. The original meaning of you know is
clearly no longer predominant, i.e. you know is primarily used to help speakers’ own thinking
and verbalization processes and their processes of planning their own output, and linking spans
of the discourse they enact.
3.3.2. The discourse markers I think, I mean, I don’t know. The discourse markers I think, I don’t
know and I mean are also re-interpreted in ELF talk (Baumgarten & House, 2007, 2010). As
compared to L1 speakers of English, L2 speakers are shown to make frequent use of the
constructions I think and I don’t know in their prototypical meanings, preferring the formal
structures main clauseþcomplement clause over the more grammaticalized structures and
pragmaticalized meanings as these are expressed in the verbal routine forms preferred by L1
speakers of English. For instance, I think in ELF talk is used to express the speaker’s subjective
opinion, and I don’t know is used as a marker of the speaker’s insufﬁcient knowledge about the
topic of the discourse. These uses clearly indicate that ELF speakers have re-interpreted the
standard L1 speaker’s usage of these discourse markers (cf. also Mullan, this volume; Mortensen,
this volume; and the rich literature on the use of I think as a marker of immature writing in both L1
and L2; and see Shaw, Caudery, & Petersen, 2009, for its use by non-experienced ELF speakers).
The expression I mean is often used with a strong evaluative element in ELF talk over and above
the main function of reformulation/clariﬁcation (Baumgarten & House, 2007), i.e. I mean
functions as a focalizing device in the speaker’s contributions which serves as a point of departure
for an explicit expression of a subjective evaluation, expressing affective involvement in the topic
and the discourse.
3.3.3. yes/yeah. The gambit yeah/yes is employed by ELF speakers with different functions (cf.
the detailed analysis in Spielmann, 2007) such as uptaking (alter’s message), backchannelling
(both supporting alter’s message and signalling that no claim for turn take-over is being made),
agreeing with alter’s moves and structuring discourse. Face-saving features which accompany the
overall inoffensive undertone of yes/yeah make it particularly suitable for ELF talk, where
Subjectivity in English lingua franca interactions 147
interactants tend to be aware of the precarious nature of their intercultural interaction. In line with
Wong’s ﬁndings of yeah in L2 English talk, yeah can serve in ELF talk as a sign of ‘‘self-
presentational display’’ suggesting that L2 speakers are generally more attentive of what they say
wanting to present to their interloctutors that they are able to competently manage their language.
Like you know, yeah can also be used as a self-supporting strategy. Most instances of yeah found
in Spielmann’s data match at least one of the three major categories: backchannel signals,
agreement markers and discourse structurers. ELF speakers often exploit the positive import of
yeah/yes to downtone objections. The frequent use of yeah/yes in ELF discourse can best be
explained with its polyfunctionality – a characteristic that makes its use communicatively
effective because a lot of pragmatic content of backchanneling, agreeing and discourse structuring
is here packed into minimal verbal form.
House and Lévy-Tödter (2010) have analysed four academic advising sessions with regard to
the incidence of the marker yeah/yes and also its German version ja. Their analysis of this data
supports the ﬁndings of Liao (2009) that yeah/yes/ja occurs with great frequency in interview type
talk – a type of talk that involves much more turn-taking situations than discussions. House and
Lévy-Tödter also found that the token yes was found to be used by ELF speakers whenever they
genuinely agreed to questions or statements produced by their interlocutors (cf. Excerpts (7) and (8);
P ¼ professor, S ¼ student):
Excerpt (7)
P: Okay but we want to speak you with about what you have done here and it is not so good
I would say uh erm I sent you an e-mail
S: Yes
Excerpt (8)
P: next thing you know on the fourteenth of Ju June there is a German autag [university
event] just for your information
S: autag nee [no]
P: it’s where you are coming here
S: it’s here at the TU
P: Yes yes yes once a year there is a so-called autag . . .
The token yeah is the one used much more than yes or ja. Of the three major functions of yeah
in ELF talk suggested by Spielmann (2007) – agreeing, discourse structuring and backchannel-
ing – it is the discourse structuring function which predominates in this institutional data. Yeah is
more often used to monitor and organize speakers’ own contributions to the talk, than to take up
what a speaker’s interlocutor has said, or to agree with the interlocutor’s move. When using yeah,
ELF speakers thus seem to be more self-oriented, in the sense that they try to gain time for
themselves both for coming to terms with their interlocutors’ utterance and for getting on with
148 Juliane House
their own discourse planning and production. In Excerpt (9) below yes is used to signal agreement
and yeah to structure the discourse.
Excerpt (9)
P: And we will send it er to the man who is er supporting (soft) this (soft)
S: Under your name?
P: yes
S: so that will be be your okay endorsement
P: yes this is my my my support yeah my recommendation
S: all right that’s @@ that’s better
P: @@
S: yeah then erm well I just was talking to.
And in Excerpt (10) yeah is also used to ﬁll gaps and structure the discourse.
Excerpt (10)
P: There there is uh one week where the building companies come to to to the university
and they make some presentation and¼
S: ¼Ahh this week yeah I
(1s)
P: This one week erm yeah but I cannot do it I have to go here this week
S: Yeah the week of civil engineering yeah
In the data investigated, we also found that interactants often resort to the use of the German L1 ja
as a backchannel signal, as in Excerpt (11):
Excerpt (11):
P: You send the pdf ﬁle I think
S: Erm in pdf I read erm okay in computer but I don’t print
P: The printing is is wrong only the printing or?
S: I think only the printing because
P: jajaja
S: in my ﬁle is okay
P: strange
S: in in your ﬁle is okay in computer?
In Excerpt (12), we can see that German L1 ja is used for backchannelling and yes for agreeing:
Excerpt (12):
S: erm I have currently I have prepared them in English¼
P: ¼ ja
Subjectivity in English lingua franca interactions 149
S: and I also want send them too in German which I’ve not yet sent anywhere cause I’ve
just prepared them with help of some friends
P: ja
S: and colleagues
P: ja
S: I should give a copy of that copy too
P: yes
Taken together, there seems to be a clear functional variation in the use of the tokens yes, yeah and
German L1 ja. Yes is used with maximal attention and awareness, often in question-answer
sequences. Yeah is used with reduced awareness, it indicates a speaker’s more automatic focus on
the progression of the discourse, while the use of German L1 ja in this data as a sign of a relapse
into speakers’ mother tongue can be taken as an indication of a heightened degree of automaticity
and an absence of cognitive control. All three variants are expressions of subjectivity in that the
speaker’s point of view and perspective with regard to the ongoing discourse is being represented.
3.3.4. so. The marker so also seems to function more as a speaker-supportive than as a
predominantly interpersonally active element in the institutional ELF data examined in House
and Lévy-Tödter (2010). So is here used as a deictic element that speakers use to both
support the planning of their upcoming moves and to help them to ‘look backwards’ sum-
ming up previous discourse stretches. So can thus be characterized as a complex double-bind
element, acting as a sort of (mental) hinge between what has come before and what will
occur next. In using so, speakers employ ego-centric speech in a Vygotskyian sense in order
to accompany their own linguistic action, make themselves aware of its structuring and by
doing so facilitate the course of the linguistic action. So has commonly been described as
signalling causal and inferential connections between clauses, and introducing a new topic.
Blakemore (1988) has argued that so marks inferences, and Raymond (2004) has pointed out
that so, if standing alone, is used to prompt the listener to produce a follow-up move. In a
different vein, Johnson (2002) has argued that so can also be used to preface questions
acting as a topic developer.
In more recent works on the pragmatic functions of so (Bolden, 2006, 2009) in everyday
discourse, the marker is described as launching sequences of new actions such as requests,
offers, invitations. Bolden argues that so used sequence-initially has been on the speaker’s
‘agenda’ for some time, and she refers to so as a marker of ‘‘emergence from incipiency’’ (2006,
p. 663), claiming that it conveys to the addressee that the upcoming course of action is
‘emerging from incipiency’ and has already been on the interactional agenda. According to
Bolden, so is often used when a speaker has to deal with an interactional problem arising when
the current utterance occurs not as a sequence to the immediately preceding talk and helps
150 Juliane House
answer the question ‘‘why that now’’, telling the listener to interpret the following move as one
belonging to a pending one (Bolden, 2009, p. 996). Bolden suggests that so prefaces with
overwhelming frequency in sequences that accomplish other-attentive courses of action, i.e. so
is used as a preface on turn constructional units that initiate various courses of action. When
prefacing discursive practices, so is clearly alter-oriented, ‘‘doing other attentiveness’’ in social
interaction (Bolden, 2006, p. 664) and acting as a resource for accomplishing understanding on
the part of the addressee.
As opposed to these ﬁndings, the uses of so in our ELF data seem to function rather
differently: they do not index other-attentiveness, but instead tend to be realized in connection
with self-attentive matters. So is therefore not used with a strong interpersonal function, but rather
acquires a text structuring and self-supporting function, also acting as a stop-gap fumble
(Edmondson, 1981) helping the speaker bridge formulation problems. Far from being other-
oriented in our ELF data, so tends to be used as a self-monitoring ﬁller used by a speaker to
prevent conversational breakdown. Our analysis shows that in the majority of occurrences, so
follows hesitation markers such as erm or hmm, or a pause, and it also often collocates with the
connector and. All these co-occurrences can be taken as evidence for the use of so as a self-
prompting strategy to monitor one’s output, marking the resumption of speech after being ‘bogged
down’ both turn-initially and in mid-turn. This use of so conﬁrms Redeker’s (2006) description of
so as a marker of various discourse segment transitions, so being placed at the end of a segment,
before the next segment and returning to a previous segment. Our data shows all of these
positions. Consider Excerpts (13) and (14):
Excerpt (13)
S: I actually better take some notes
P: Mhm (1s) so: there is ONE one man er he is working for erm for [company]
S: Mhm
P: And erm so he is er in the erm working in (.) with the er design and calculation of
[company]
P’s use of so in both his turns in Excerpt (13) is clearly not back-referenced to S’s announcement
that he will take notes during their conversation. Rather, following the hesitation signal mhm and
the pause, as well as the connector and and the hesitation marker erm, P seems to use so to ‘get
himself going again’, and resume the train of thought expressed in his previous move:
Excerpt (14)
1 S: And ja [yes] I also have a question about that I mean I think erm
2 the erm procedures are a little different in Germany how
3 do you generally apply to er ﬁrms like this for
Subjectivity in English lingua franca interactions 151
4 Diplomarbeit [diploma thesis]
5 P: Mhm mhm
6 S: Or master thesis
7 P: Okay
8 S: Is it just erm
10 P: It should be at ﬁrst a letter erm where you erm you are
11 stating er WHO who you are and what you are doing so
12 you are studying at this university and in this in this
13 program and erm so within this program you have a a
14 module in composites and so you are interesting in the
15 subject and you are asking erm erm for a a a a a subject a a
16 a master thesis subject in this¼
17 S: ¼In this ﬁeld yeah
In his ﬁrst use of so in Excerpt (11), P uses so in mid-turn (line 11), initiating an elaboration
of the previous phrase ‘‘what you are doing’’, i.e. using so to egg himself on with his
explanation. In its second (line 13) occurrence, so follows a hesitation marker, and in the third
occurrence (line 14) the connector and – in both cases so introduces further elaborations and
explanations.
In sum, so seems to operate as a speaker-supportive strategy in this ELF data. It is used at
particular places in the discourse, mostly following hesitations by the speaker and breaks in the
discourse ﬂow. In these cases, so might also be interpreted as displaying the speaker’s mental
processes (Fischer, 2006, p. 445), anchoring the discourse in a particular co-text and context, and
contextualizing the speaker and her subjective processes of perception, planning, understanding
and affective stance.
4. CONCLUSION
Taken together, the studies reviewed above all seem to show that there is a remarkable
tendency for ELF speakers to strategically re-interpret discourse markers as primarily self-oriented
linguistic items thus conﬁrming the hypothesis of the subjectivity-displaying self-orientedness of
ELF talk already suggested in House (1999).
ELF users often exploit the linguistic potential of the English language and engage in useful
self-help interactional behaviour for their own and by implication also for alter’s beneﬁt. They are
able to strategically support their own production showing pragmatic ﬂuency (House, 1996,
2003b). Pragmatic ﬂuency also includes, as I have tried to show in this chapter, the expression of
subjectivity as a means for creative re-interpretation of native English usage and for getting across
their own point of view and perspective.
152 Juliane House
TRANSCRIPTION SYMBOLS
? rising intonation
¼ latching
: lengthened sound
(.) micro pause
( _s) pause in seconds
@ laughter
(soft) (soft) tone of voice
[ ] English gloss
REFERENCES
Baumgarten, N., & House, J. (2007). Speaker stances in native and non-native English conversation. In
J. D. ten Thije & L. Zeevaert (Eds.), Receptive multilingualism (pp. 195–216). Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Baumgarten, N., & House, J. (2010). I think and I don’t know in English as lingua franca and native English
discourse. Journal of Pragmatics, 42(5), 1184–1200.
Benveniste, È. (1966). Problémes de linguistique générale. Paris: Gallimard.
Blakemore, D. (1988). So as a constraint on relevance. In R. M. Kempson (Ed.), Mental representations. The
interface between language and reality (pp. 183–195). New York, NY: Cambridge University Press.
Bolden, G. B. (2006). Little words that matter. Discourse markers so and oh and the doing of other-
attentiveness in social interaction. Journal of Communication, 56, 661–688.
Bolden, G. B. (2009). Implementing incipient actions. The discourse marker so in English conversation.
Journal of Pragmatics, 41, 974–998.
Cogo, A. (2009). Accommodating differences in ELF conversations. A study of pragmatic strategies. In
A. Mauranen & E. Ranta (Eds.), English as a lingua franca: Studies and ﬁndings (pp. 254–273).
Newcastle: Cambridge Scholars Press.
Cogo, A., & Dewey, M. (2006). Efﬁciency in ELF communication. From pragmatic motives to lexico-
grammatical innovation. Nordic Journal English Studies, 5(2), 59–94.
Dewey, M. (2009). English as a lingua franca. Heightened variability and theoretical implications. In
A. Mauranen & E. Ranta (Eds.), English as a lingua franca: Studies and ﬁndings (pp. 60–83).
Newcastle: Cambridge Scholars Press.
Eckert, P., & McConnell-Ginet, S. (1992). Think practically and act locally: Language and gender community-
based practice. Annual Review of Anthropology, 21, 461–490.
Edmondson, W. J. (1981). Spoken discourse. A model for analysis. London: Longman.
Edmondson, W. J., & House, J. (1981). Let’s talk and talk about it: A pedagogic interactional grammar of
English. München: Urban und Schwarzenberg.
Edmondson, W. J., & House, J. (2006). Einführung in die Sprachlehrforschung (2nd ed.). Tübingen: Francke.
Firth, A. (1990). Lingua franca negotiations: Towards an interactional approach. World Englishes, 9(3),
69–80.
Subjectivity in English lingua franca interactions 153
Firth, A. (1996). The discursive accomplishment of normality on lingua franca English and conversation
analysis. Journal of Pragmatics, 26, 237–260.
Firth, A. (2009). The lingua franca factor. Intercultural Pragmatics, 6(2), 147–170.
Fischer, K. (2006). Beyond the sentence: constructions, frames and spoken interaction. In K. Fischer (Ed.),
Approaches to discourse particles (p. 445). Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Halliday, M. A. K. (1994). An introduction to functional grammar (2nd ed.). London: Arnold.
House, J. (1996). Developing pragmatic ﬂuency in English as a foreign language. Routines and metapragmatic
awareness. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 18, 225–252.
House, J. (1999). Misunderstanding in intercultural communication: Interactions in English as a lingua franca
and the myth of mutual intelligibility. In C. Gnutzmann (Ed.), Teaching and learning English as a
global language (pp. 73–93). Tübingen: Stauffenburg.
House, J. (2002). Communicating in English as a lingua franca. In S. Foster-Cohen (Ed.), EUROSLA Yearbook
2 (pp. 243–261). Amsterdam: Benjamins.
House, J. (2003a). English as a lingua franca: A threat to multilingualism? Journal of Sociolinguistics, 7(4),
556–578.
House, J. (2003b). Teaching and learning pragmatic ﬂuency in a foreign language: The case of English as a
lingua franca. In A. Martı́nez-Flor, E. Usó & A. Fernández (Eds.), Pragmatic competence and foreign
language teaching (pp. 133–160). Castello: Universitat Jaume I Press.
House, J. (2008). (Im)politeness in English as a lingua franca discourse. In M. Locher & J. Straessler (Eds.),
Standards and norms in the English language (pp. 351–366). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
House, J. (2009). Subjectivity in English as lingua franca discourse: The case of you know. Intercultural
Pragmatics, 6(2), 171–194.
House, J. (2010). Impoliteness in Germany. Intercultural Pragmatics, 7(4), 561–596.
House, J., & Lévy-Tödter, M. (2009). Language, authority and face in academic English lingua franca advising
sessions. In M. Lévy-Tödter & D. Meer (Eds.), Hochschulkommunikation in der Diskussion (pp. 157–
178). Frankfurt am Main: Lang.
House, J., & Lévy-Tödter, M. (2010). Linguistic competence and professional identity in English
medium institutional discourse. In B. Apfelbaum & B. Meyer (Eds.), Multilingualism in the
workplace (pp. 13–46). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Johnson, A. (2002). So . . . ? Pragmatic implications of so-prefaced questions in formal police interviews. In
J. Cotterill (Ed.), Language in the legal process (pp. 91–110). New York, NY: Palgrave Macmillan.
Liao, S. (2009). Variation in the use of discourse markers by Chinese teaching assistants in the US. Journal of
Pragmatics, 41(7), 1313–1328.
Martin, J. R. (1992). English text. System and structure. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Östman, J.-O. (1981). You know: A discourse-functional approach. Amsterdam: John Benjamims.
Pölzl, U., & Seidlhofer, B. (2006). In and on their own terms: The ‘habitat factor’ in English as a lingua franca
interaction. International Journal of the Sociology of Language, 177, 151–176.
Raymond, G. (2004). Prompting action: The stand-alone so in ordinary conversation. Research on Language
and Social Interaction, 37, 185–281.
Redeker, G. (2006). Discourse markers as attentional cues at discourse transitions. In K. Fischer (Ed.),
Approaches to discourse particles (pp. 339–358). Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Schiffrin, D. (1987). Discourse markers. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Seidlhofer, B., & Widdowson, H. (2007). Idiomatic variation and change in English. The idiom principle and
its realizations. In U. Smit, S. Dollinger, J. Hüttner, G. Kaltenböck & U. Lutzky (Eds.), Tracing
English through time. Explorations in language variation (pp. 359–374). Wien: Braumüller.
154 Juliane House
Shaw, P., Caudery, T., & Petersen, M. (2009). Students on exchange in Scandinavia: Motivation, interaction,
ELF development. In A. Mauranen & E. Ranta (Eds.), English as a lingua franca: Studies and ﬁndings
(pp. 178–199). Newcastle: Cambridge Scholars Press.
Smith, C. (2003). Modes of discourse. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Spielmann, D. (2007). English as lingua franca: A simpliﬁed code? Unpublished MA thesis, Universität
Hamburg.
Stenström, A.-B. (1994). An introduction to spoken interaction. London: Longman.
Wenger, E. (1989). Communities of practice. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Subjectivity in English lingua franca interactions 155
This page intentionally left blank
Subjectivity in Language and in Discourse
Edited by Nicole Baumgarten, Inke Du Bois and Juliane House
r 2012 by Emerald Group Publishing Limited. All rights reserved.
8
METADISCOURSE AND THE CONSTRUCTION
OF SPEAKER IDENTITIES IN L2 ACADEMIC
PRESENTATIONAL TALK
Nicole Baumgarten
1. INTRODUCTION
This chapter is concerned with non-native (L2) speakers’ linguistic self-expression in academic
settings where English is used as a lingua franca. Linguistic self-expression is the projection of the
speakers’ subjective perspective in discourse through the positioning of self and others towards
the content of the talk and the interlocutors. It is here taken to be equivalent to the discursive
construction of a speaker’s identity in communicative interaction (cf. Benveniste, 1966/1971;
Bucholtz & Hall, 2005).
Research into the nature of L2 English in lingua franca (ELF) settings has typically examined
accuracy and non-native-like usage in the areas of pronunciation, morpho- and utterance syntax
as well as interactional characteristics of L2-L2 talk with respect to form-function pairing,
rhetorical style, meaning negotiation, turn taking, repair, topic management, lexical creativity
and accommodation strategies (e.g. Andersen, 2001; Firth, 1996; House, 1999, 2002; Meierkord,
1996, 2004; cf. also the overview in Jenkins, Cogo & Dewey, 2011). Most of the studies to
date have investigated dialogic and highly interactive discourse with more or less equally
distributed speaker rights. In these data, the authors generally ﬁnd that lexicogrammatical
choice seems to be related to speakers’ attempts to increase communicative effectiveness with
regard to comprehensibility and the pursuit of communicative goals in the face of limited
proﬁciency in their L2 English and reduced linguistic and cultural common ground between
the interactants.
The present study is concerned with monologic academic presentational talk by students and
scholars in L2 ELF settings, i.e. situations outside a native-English-speaking context where the
participants do not share a ﬁrst language (L1). The focus is on metadiscourse1
(Crismore, 1989;
Hyland, 2005a) as the repertoire of linguistic means that express non-propositional, interpersonal
meanings in discourse and thereby serve to bring the speaker to the forefront of the discourse as
an identiﬁable, individual person. This study is thus concerned with the linguistic construction of
a speaker identity (or speaker persona) in discourse. The projection of viable speaker identities
and an adequate positioning of the speaker’s self in his or her discourse is a central task to be
mastered in order to be admitted to professional discourse communities or other communities of
practice. Linguistically this is achieved through controlling the frequency and manner of self- and
audience reference and the communicative context in which this occurs, thereby producing
discourse which is coherent with the register and the genre (Halliday & Hasan, 1976) as part of
the community-speciﬁc requirements of speaking.
In interactions in ELF settings the construction of an adequate speaker identity in discourse
is a potential trouble spot because L2 speakers bring ‘different’ Englishes to the situation. The
speakers’ language repertoires may differ in terms of the lexicogrammatical forms they have at
their disposal and in terms of form-function mappings. That is, L2 speakers use roughly the same
linguistic system, but the linguistic forms may be invested with different semantic and pragmatic
meaning potential for each individual speaker. As a consequence, L2 speakers may choose the
same linguistic structures in a speciﬁc situation, but they may do it for different communicative
reasons. This difference is caused by speakers’ different L1s, their differently diversiﬁed learner
varieties and their socialization in different sociolinguistic and cultural contexts. An additional
factor may be the awareness of being in an ELF situation. At present, it is not at all clear which
communicative conventions, including ways of positioning oneself and others in one’s talk, are
operative in ELF settings. On each occasion, it is possible that speakers transfer (parts of) the
conventions associated with their L1 culture into the ELF interaction; it is possible that they orient
themselves towards the communicative conventions of the inner circle variety of English they
have acquired in formal L2 training; it is also possible that they orient themselves to what
they perceive to be the conventional norm in the culture in which the interaction takes place
or to the expectations they assume the other interactants have of which conventions apply. In sum,
the difference in linguistic forms, the difference in form-function mappings, and individual
assumptions about what is the expected way to carry out a speciﬁc type of interaction in an ELF
setting results in a much reduced common ground between the interactants, even though they are,
on the surface of things, using the same language and operate under the assumption of mutual
intelligibility.
1
Also referred to as ‘discourse reﬂexivity’ or ‘metalanguage’ (cf. e.g. Mauranen, 1993; Sinclair, 2005).
158 Nicole Baumgarten
On the local level of discourse, the variation between L2 Englishes may lead to misunder-
standing (cf. House, 1999)2
. On a more global level in ELF interaction, variation between L2
Englishes may give rise to highly individualized and singular speaker identities which may – even
in the absence of misunderstanding – result in ineffectual communication, because in any
community of practice, the construction of recognizable and sanctioned speaker identities is
crucial to any claim of membership (cf. Ochs, 1993). This is all the more relevant if it is indeed the
case, as Mauranen (2005) describes, that L2 speakers in ELF settings are primarily oriented to
meaning rather than to form, because choice of form carries social – ‘style’ – meanings, which, in
turn, are important carriers of the identity, or persona, speakers project through their linguistic
performance in the communicative situation. For L1 speakers, Eckert (2003) has argued that
stylistic variation derives from linguistic variation and that linguistic variables have indexical
potential. Bell (1984, 2001), in his theory of ‘audience design’, likewise argues that linguistic
choice functions as a social maker. ‘Style’ is seen as always interpersonally oriented, i.e. to the
people in the communicative situation, rather than to ‘‘mechanisms and functions’’ (2001, p. 141)
in the linguistic context of the text or discourse. Self-expression then is an act of styling
oneself for the interlocutors. It is not clear how L2 speakers in ELF interaction fare with respect
to this kind of linguistic stylization, to what extent they (are able to) realize styles and what
the interactional and social consequences are should they be unable to express styles or when
their styles are not recognized by their interlocutors or unequivocally categorized as learner
performance.
The following analysis is generally based on the assumption that even though presentational
speaking is essentially monologic, speakers aim to be seen as particular professional persons and
aim to involve and engage their hearers in their talk. Speakers achieve these goals through
linguistic choice with regard to the expression of subjective and intersubjective meanings. The
focus of the analysis is, thus, on the use of linguistic items and their function in realizing a
speciﬁc type of interaction between speaker and hearer in the course of the academic
presentation. In the course of the analysis we will be looking at commonalities in the speakers’
linguistic choice; but since linguistic self-expression is the projection of the speakers’ individual
identities in discourse, a second focus of the analysis will lie on the differences between the
speakers, i.e. idiosyncratic realizations of identity construction within the constraints of the
genre.
In order to reveal how L2 speakers of English construct speaker identities in monologic,
presentational discourse in ELF settings the concept of ‘speaker identity’ is related to the linguistic
resources which express a particular type of metadiscourse, namely positioning the speaker and
2
Misunderstandings, however, seem to occur only infrequently in ELF talk (cf. Meierkord, 1996;
Mauranen, 2006).
Speaker identities in L2 academic presentational talk 159
the audience in the discourse. It is assumed that speakers’ metadiscursive linguistic choice is
governed by their knowledge of or assumptions about which kind of expression of subjectivity –
i.e. the expression of a genre-determined speaker persona – is expected, required and appropriate
on the occasion of their talk. Using the concept of metadiscourse means that the construction
of speaker identities is considered from the perspective of linguistic encoding. Only the
lexicalized aspects of the discourse, and not the speakers’ use of gesture and posture, are under
consideration.3
The following section brieﬂy outlines current research into L1 and L2 English spoken
academic discourse in general and identity construction in spoken academic discourse in
particular. Section 3 introduces metadiscourse as one component of the construction of speaker
identities in discourse. Section 4 presents the data and methodology for the present study. The
results of the analysis are presented in Section 5 and Section 6 is the conclusion.
2. SPEAKER IDENTITIES IN SPOKEN ACADEMIC DISCOURSE
Academic discourse, in particular written academic discourse, has long been in the focus of
interest in linguistics (cf. Swales, 1990). Only comparatively recently the focus has shifted to
include spoken academic discourse. This research is usually based on corpora of academic
speaking in the US and UK and addresses predominantly L1 English discourse and traditional
expert-to-expert and expert-to-novice discourse genres (e.g. the lecture, the seminar, the tutorial,
the presentation). Where the focus is on L2 English, it is L2 English language use in a ‘target
language’ context and usually in the form of interaction between L2 and L1 speakers (e.g. Davies,
Tyler, & Koran, 1998; Davies & Tyler, 2005). This line of research is primarily motivated by
practical concerns of university teaching by and for L2 speakers, their interlanguage development
and their socialization into the L2 academic community. Structural and generic features of
academic speech are described with regard to pedagogical applications.
Features relevant to the construction of speaker identities in L1 English spoken academic
discourse have been described for a number of speech genres – most extensively for the academic
lecture.4
The linguistic items and phenomena investigated include, e.g., pronoun use (Fortanet,
2004), hedging (Mauranen, 2004), epistemic lexical verbs (Artiga León, 2006), evaluative
language use (Mauranen & Bondi, 2003), evaluative adjectives (Bamford, 2005), pragmatic force
3
Cf. Rendle-Short (2006) for the non- and paraverbal aspects of giving academic presentations.
4
Even though the investigations are concerned with linguistic features and interactional phenomena
central to speakers’ self-expression, not all authors explicitly relate their research to the term ‘identity’,
preferring concepts such as ‘stance’, ‘speaker role’, ‘authorial persona’, or ‘socialization’ instead.
160 Nicole Baumgarten
modiﬁers (Lin, 2010), tag questions (Schleef, 2009), intensiﬁers and mitigators (Mauranen, 2002),
and question-answer sequences (Bamford, 2005). Dyer and Keller-Cohen (2000) provide an
analysis of the role of professors’ narratives of personal experience in lectures. Aguilar (2008)
gives a relevance-theoretic account of the use of metadiscourse by university lecturers. She
describes it as the result of the lecturers’ ‘‘situated cognition’’ and their search for optimal
relevance which, in turn, is governed by their motivations and the purpose of projecting particular
personae in discourse (p. 147). Importantly, she stresses that even though the use of metadiscourse
is a discursive practice that is constrained by the context in which it occurs, it will differ across
individual speakers because of their individual preferences and abilities in creating optimal
relevance. Biber (2006) describes the expression of speaker stance in a number of spoken expert-
novice and novice peer-to-peer university registers such as classroom teaching and laboratory
sessions. Benwell and Stokoe (2002, 2005) focus on expert-novice and novice peer-to-peer
university tutorial sessions. They describe the construction of academic speaker identities in terms
of interactional resistance to tutors’ enacting an academic identity and students’ evading what they
perceive as the linguistic expression of an academic identity. Studies like these describe the
speakers’ self-stylization in one speciﬁc dimension of academic speaking, namely, in the context
of interaction related to teaching, educating and formalized learning. The second dimension of
academic speaking, i.e., expert discourse in the context of research and the presentation of
research, has received less attention with respect to speakers’ self-expression.
Research on presentational talk seems to fall into three major strands: ﬁrst, the description of
the structural features of conference presentations (Dubois, 1980, 1987; Rowley-Jolivet Carter-
Thomas, 2005a, 2005b, 2005c; Ventola, 2002); second, the description of the interdependence
between the form of the presentational talk, its communicative occasion (i.e. a conference) and
the unfolding conference discourse (Räisäanen, 1999; Shalom, 2002; Ventola, 2002); third, the
comparison between conference presentations and research articles (e.g. Carter-Thomas &
Rowley-Jolivet, 2001; Thompson, 2002; Webber, 2005). The ﬁndings in the latter area suggest
that one of the main differences between conference presentations and research articles, next to
the demand of real-time information processing and online speech production, is the need to
project a ‘‘real person rather than a distant authorial persona’’ (Swales, 2004, p. 202).
Several authors provide insight into features relevant to identity construction. Thompson
(1998) addresses the use of questions in presentational talk, Rowley-Jolivet and Carter-Thomas
(2005a) discuss the use of pronouns in allocating speaker and hearer roles in conference
presentations. Webber (2005) investigates personal deictics, discourse markers and imprecise
quantiﬁers as markers of the speaker’s projection of ongoing interaction with the listeners in order
to create rapport with the audience. Heino, Tervonen and Tommola (2002) describe metadiscourse
in conference presentations. In their data, markers associated with academic cautiousness
and face-saving are especially frequent. Their study also highlights considerable variation across
speakers in the use of these markers. Rendle-Short (2006) provides an account of what ‘‘being
Speaker identities in L2 academic presentational talk 161
an academic presenter’’ (p. 2) entails. She focuses on how presenters realize the academic
presentation as one particular type of institutional/workplace communication by designing their
talk for their academic audience in speciﬁc ways which involve signalling structure, showing
engagement and disengagement, employing multimodal deixis and interacting with object and
presentation tools.
Few studies address L2 speaker performance in an ELF context. Rolwey-Jolivet and Carter-
Thomas (2005c) ﬁnd differences in the form-function pairing of lexical discourse markers as well
as use of pronouns and utterance syntax between L1 and L2 English conference presenters. They
claim these differences render the L2 presentations less ‘‘conversational’’, less structurally
unambiguous and, because they result in different interpersonal relations between speakers and
their audience and different stances towards the content of the talk, also less ‘‘interactional’’. A
treatment of linguistic self-expression and speaker-audience interaction is provided by Vassileva’s
(2002) comparison of English L1 and Bulgarian L2 English conference presentations. Her
analysis reveals that choice of, e.g., pronouns, story-telling, joking and rhetorical questions,
patterns according to different, possibly culture-based, conventions of academic rhetoric operative
in the L1 and L2 groups. In her data, L2 speakers’ preferences in self-expression seem to be
governed by conventions that resemble those typical of L1 Bulgarian academic written rhetoric.
Student performance in academic presentational genres is generally considered from the
perspective of students’ (L1 and L2 alike) socialization into the professional academic
community. Morita (2000) investigated the oral academic presentation and its relationship to
students academic discourse socialization. She identiﬁes the communication of epistemic stance
and strategies to engage the audience as central tasks inside the oral presentation. The L2 English
speakers in the study reported limited English skills and cultural differences between academic
genres as the main sources of difﬁculties in the performance of the presentations. Morton (2009)
describes successful and unsuccessful academic architecture presentations in L1 English. The
analysis reveals that the least successful presentations show the linguistic encoding of an
‘‘objective and impersonal view’’ of the topic. Conversely, successful presentations show the
linguistic expression of ‘‘strongly conveyed ownership [ . . . ] and an architectural self’’ (p. 222).
Zareva (2009a, 2009b) compared the use of circumstance adverbials in L1 and L2 English student
presentations. In her data, the functions associated with the adverbials differ between the groups,
which suggests that L1 and L2 presenters have differing perceptions of what an academic
presentation involves. The L1 presenters use circumstance adverbials to present information in an
informal way and to interact with the audience. These functions are less frequent in the L2 data
and, consequently, the L2 presenters come across as ‘‘preoccupied with the informational content
[ . . . ] to the exclusion of their peers from the process of information organization’’ (2009. p. 55).
Alessi (2005) investigated the form, function and frequency of metadiscourse markers in L2
English student presentations by L1 Italian students in Italy. He found that discourse connectives
and emphatic and certainty markers were used very frequently while others such as recapitulation
162 Nicole Baumgarten
markers and code glosses were almost absent. Alessi suggests that the distribution patterns are due
to L1 interference, production difﬁculties under real-time constraints, a limited repertoire of
metadiscourse markers, limited experience in the academic register and the presentational genre
and possibly transfer from the Italian presentational genre.
The research to date provides insight into selected features of speaker identity construction. But
there is no comprehensive account of the linguistic features involved in this process or how the
co-occurrence of features in individual speakers’ talk works to establish particular identities in
discourse.
3. METADISCOURSE IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF SPEAKER IDENTITIES
Metadiscourse is deﬁned as the linguistic resources ‘‘which explicitly organize the discourse,
engage the audience and signal the writer’s [speaker’s]5
attitude’’ (Hyland, 1998, p. 437). Meta-
discourse is, thus, distinct from the propositional aspects of the discourse in that it serves to structure
propositions ‘into’ the one particular argument intended by the speaker and to position the speaker
and hearer as participants in the discourse. Metadiscourse foregrounds the speaker in the discourse
in the sense that the use of metadiscourse items constructs a speaking subject, or speaker persona,
which the hearer must understand as the source of the information presented. The use of
metadiscourse items can therefore reveal the type of speaker identity that is projected in
the discourse.
Hyland (1998, 2005a) distinguishes between interactive and interactional metadiscourse.
Interactive metadiscourse explicates the organization of propositional information and allows
speakers to structure their talk in relation to the communicative task and purpose. Interactional
metadiscourse serves to encode the participants of the interaction in the discourse, with the
speaker adopting an acceptable persona and a tenor consistent with the norms of the community. It
is only interactional metadiscourse that will be dealt with in the present context.
Hyland (2005b) posits a model of interaction in academic discourse that reconsiders
interactional metadiscourse in terms of the expression of speaker stance and engagement with the
audience.6
In this model, stance captures speaker positioning in terms of the expression of affect,
attitudes and evidentiality. Engagement describes audience positioning. It refers to the ways
speakers express (dis-)alignment with the audience by including the audience as discourse
5
The models of metadiscourse discussed in this section were originally developed for written discourse,
but can also be applied with some modiﬁcations to spoken discourse. In the following, the concepts are
presented in relation to spoken discourse.
6
This model has been adapted and slightly extended for the present purpose of analyzing academic
speech.
Speaker identities in L2 academic presentational talk 163
participants, focusing their attention on speciﬁc information in the discourse or the physical
surroundings and anticipating their reactions towards the unfolding argument. Tables 8.1 and 8.2
present the metadiscourse categories that realize stance and engagement in presentational
academic discourse and typical linguistic realizations for each.
Table 8.1. Stance subcategories
Category: Function Typical contribution
to identity
construction
Typical
realizations
Examples
Hedges: Epistemic
uncertainty signals
serving to withhold
commitment to a
proposition
Present information as
personal opinion and
product of speakers’
reasoning; open up
discursive space; allow
alternative positions
Modals, vague
expressions
And those of you who
have any idea of the
Dutch scenario
would probably know
this.
Boosters: Epistemic
certainty signals
expressing conviction
in the truth of the
proposition
Mark involvement in
topic and assertiveness;
close down discursive
space; fend off
alternative positions
Modals Because I’m sure
everybody ahm here
is familiar with that.
Attitude markers:
Express speakers’
affective attitude
Mark involvement in
the topic; express
speakers’ value
judgments
Exclamations,
evaluative
expressions
Not bad at all.
Self-mention:
Encodes speakers as
referents in their
discourse
Position speakers as
central epistemological
agents in their
discourse; enable
topical talk about
speakers
Excl. 1st
person
pronouns and
possessives
I wrote a book about
negation.
Speaker orientationa
:
Encodes speaker
orientation towards
own talk
Display speakers’
involvement in their
talk and performance
Discourse
markers
Ehm ((7s)) oh some
lexical statistics.Very
brieﬂy.
a
Not in the original model. Speciﬁc of spoken discourse.
164 Nicole Baumgarten
Table 8.2. Engagement subcategories
Category: Function Typical contribution
to identity
construction
Typical
realizations
Examples
Hearer pronouns:
Include the audience
as discourse
participants
Direct interaction with
audience; construct
speakers and audience
as part of the same
community; construct
audience as part of a
community
Incl. 1st and 2nd
person pronouns
and possessives
I’m sure most most
most of most of you
HERE are EDUcators 
and  and so am I.
Asides: Interrupt the
ﬂow of the argument
to comment on what
has been said or done;
introduce information
not directly related to
the main line of the
argument
Express speakers’
explicit responses to
unfolding discourse
Those of you who have
ehh or WOULD LIKE
my paper  please just
contact me. I’d be
happy to send it to
you?   Ahm   (It/)
Hindi is basically a
hard language to sort
of eh  get perfectly
right if you’re not used
to it.
Shared knowledge:
Present information as
familiar or accepted
Position audience as
members of a
knowledge community;
acknowledge
audience’s presence;
guide audience to
preferred
interpretations
hearer
pronounþmental
verb, general
extenders, vague
expressions
Because I’m sure
everybody ahm here is
familiar with that.
Directives: Instruct
audience to perform a
physical or cognitive
action
Interaction with
audience; guide
audience to consider
speciﬁc information
Imperatives,
extraposed
that-clauses
But ehm it’s important
that we note that
learner autonomy does
not just involve  a
learner  in a room 
without a teacher.
Speaker identities in L2 academic presentational talk 165
The patterning of stance and engagement features indicates the extent to which the speakers
consider the presentation as an interactive – though monologic – event and the degree to which
the information presented is presented as something that is discursively negotiated. Arguably, the
reason why speakers would consider the interactive nature of the presentation of their work lies in
the anticipation of questions and comments in the discussion section following the presentation
and a ‘life’ after the presentation as a member of the seminar, section, workshop or conference,
where they continue as professional individuals (cf. Johnstone, 1996; Ventola, 2002).
Table 8.2. (Continued )
Category: Function Typical contribution
to identity
construction
Typical
realizations
Examples
Questions:
Rhetorical: Demand
cognitive involvement
from audience
Real: Invoke direct
interaction with the
audience
Interaction with
audience; guide
audience to consider
speciﬁc information
Interrogatives,
declarative
questions
How many people have
EVER watched a
Bollywood movie.
Apologiesa
: Express
regret for violating
conventions,
disappointing
expectations
Construct audience as
having rightful
expectations
Sorry, I’m sorry, I
must apologize
And ah sorry to rush
you through this.
Thanksa
: Thanking
for attendance and
attention
Acknowledging the
audiences’ presence
and consideration
Thanks, thank
you
So thank you very
much for your
attention.
Greetinga
:
Acknowledging the
audiences’ presence
Acknowledging the
audiences’ presence
Welcome, hello Good morning
everybody.
Repaira
: Coping with
production difﬁculties
and online planning
Voluntary self-
correction; marker of
online cognitive
processing
Initiated by well;
I mean; yeah
A random choice
of . . . Well not quite so
random.
a
Not in the original model. Speciﬁc of spoken discourse.
166 Nicole Baumgarten
The choice whether or not to encode stance and engagement metadiscourse can be regarded
as a crucial factor in identity construction in presentational speech. Choosing metadiscourse
items means, on each occasion, that the speakers are making themselves unmistakably visible
as persons in their discourse. As a consequence, not only their – potentially contestable –
subjective perspectives and self- and audience positioning are made salient. Like a spotlight,
metadiscourse also puts additional prominence on the speakers’ already prominent position in
the real life presentation situation, i.e. standing in front of a live audience. Using meta-
discourse, therefore, equals enacting a speaker identity which assumes unequivocal, explicit
responsibility for the discourse and which can be directly related to the actual person doing the
presentation.
4. DATA AND METHODOLOGY
The data consist of L2 English novice (student) and L2 as well as L1 English expert (scholar)
academic presentations at universities and international conferences. These three groups were
chosen to approximate a cross-sectional design that can capture both different developmental
stages in L2 register and genre knowledge and differences and commonalities between expert
L2 and L17
register and genre knowledge.
The L2 expert data consist of four approx. 20-minute conference presentations (10,235
words) at an international symposium on intercultural communication in Africa. The speakers –
three women and one man – have Polish, German, Spanish and Hungarian as their L1s. All hold
post-doctoral positions at institutions of higher education in non-English-speaking countries.
They are between 30 and 50 years old. The audience comes from mixed L1 backgrounds.
The L2 student data consist of four 15–20 minute in-class student presentations8
(7,287 words)
by L2 speakers of English in an undergraduate English Linguistics course at a German university.
All speakers are L1 speakers of German. The audience comes from mixed L1 backgrounds. The
7
Here, the idea is not to measure L2 performance against L1 speaker ‘model’ performance. The English
L1 data serve as a point of comparison which helps to proﬁle and characterize styles of self-expression
in academic L2 English.
8
The presentations consist of a summary and a critical evaluation of assigned material. The presentations
have three goals: First, that the students read and understand the assigned material, second, that they
extract the relevant information from the material, and third, that they reproduce it in class in an orderly,
comprehensible and engaging manner. From a communicative perspective, it is the students’ task to
temporarily assume in class the speaker role of an expert and to construct and project related adequate
speaker identities in their L2 and in a genre they are still new to. Ultimately, the in-class presentation
anticipates the academic conference presentation. It represents the ﬁrst steps in students’ acquisition of
one of the central professional speech genres and their socialization into the professional community.
Speaker identities in L2 academic presentational talk 167
presenters are male and between 25 and 31 years old. All have had seven to nine years of formal
instruction in English. Two stayed in an English-speaking country for more than six months, but
not for the purposes of university study. At the time of the recording, all had given about ﬁve
student presentations in English and on average 13 in their L1.
The L2 data are complemented by conference presentations by four L1 speakers of English at
international linguistics conferences in continental Europe (13,243 words). The presentations are
likewise about 20 minutes long and the audience also comes from mixed L1 backgrounds. The
speakers (two women and two men) are between 25 and 45 years old. They are native speakers of
Irish, British, American and Indian English, respectively. One of them holds a junior research
position, one a senior research position and the two others senior teaching positions at institutions
of higher education in English-speaking countries.
All presentations were audio-taped and subsequently manually transcribed. The search
for metadiscourse elements was guided by the list of metadiscourse items in written discourse
provided in Hyland (2005a), but included further items, such as colloquial expressions (that’s
just the way it goes, all that sort of thing), expressive code-switches (scheiXe ‘shit’) and
discourse markers (I mean, you know, oh, like), not covered by Hyland because they are
predominantly features of spoken language. The metadiscourse items were searched manually
and categorized as one subtype of either stance or engagement-related metadiscourse on the
basis of their function in their context of occurrence. In all three data sets, only the presentations
and not the discussions following the presentations were considered, in order to observe
‘unchallenged’ identity construction, i.e., what the speakers do when they have the ﬂoor all to
themselves.
5. RESULTS
5.1. Frequency of metadiscourse
Table 8.3 shows the frequency of metadiscourse elements in relation to 100-word stretches of
discourse. In the data, 100 words are equivalent to approx. 30 seconds of talk for the fastest
speaker (NE1, Irish English) and approx. 1 minute for the slowest (E4, L1 Polish).9
The students are the least homogeneous group. Values between roughly 6 and 10
metadiscourse items per 100 words suggest that the students do not have a common conception
of the presentation as an academic genre in terms of how to shape their presence as speakers in the
discourse. Every speaker follows a different idea of how position oneself and the audience in
9
Overall in the data, production speed does not appear to be related to accuracy.
168 Nicole Baumgarten
one’s talk. The variation across speakers also suggests that they do not transfer rhetorical
conventions for speaker and audience positioning from their L1, which is German for all. For an
illustration of the difference frequency makes compare examples (1) and (2) taken from the
beginning of S1 and S4’s presentations respectively. Metadiscourse items are in bold face.
(1) So okay, now it’s my turn  to tell you something about ehm   
necessary assumptions   about   our apologies.    And ehm((1s))
(for at least)/ eh  for an apology  there are two parcit/ ((clears
throat)) participants.  And one of them have to, have to perceive
himself/ HIM- or herself  as offended by the other. Ehm   the
offender  has to/ or the active part of  either eh/ whether (if) he
perceives himself as an offensive person  or if he is totally
unaware of his offense. So,  if he is unaware of his offense, ähm 
no apology would eh  be uttered.  And if it’s the case, eh the
offender takes/   eh in case he takes the responsibility for the
offense, he will/ utters the off/ the apology in a certain manner.
And ehm  there is  also eh the possibility that he IS aware of his
offense, but WON’T  ahm take responsibility for the offense. Ehm
in that case, eh  he has the option to deny ehm the need of
apologize  or deny the responsibility itself only. So there is a
small little distinction between that two cases. (S1)
(2) Okay, I am Lars. And I will present the model   ((??)) quickly the
model to you.  And then we go on with, with Kathrin who will
present the substrategies of the model and show you the model in
use really.^And Dagmar will eh, eh at the, at the end   äh present
to you the criticism it received. And that’s the criticism
received. NOW, ehm the politeness model of eh Brown and Levinson
is eh called the ‘‘Face-saving Model’’. And since we already
learned now what face is and what face-saving is, eh I don’t have to
Table 8.3. Frequency of stance and engagement metadiscourse elementsa
per 100 words
S1 S2 S3 S4 E1 E2 E3 E4 NE1 NE2 NE3 NE4
5.7 6.2 7.2 9.5 4.3 4.5 6.3 6.9 7.2 7.5 7.5 14.8
S ¼ L2 students, E ¼ L2 experts, NE ¼ L1 experts.
a
Multiword elements (e.g. as you can see) are counted as one element. Thus, the ﬁgures are not an exact
representation of the overall amount of metadiscourse in the data, but rather serve to illustrate the patterns of
occurrence of metadiscourse in data sets of unequal sizes.
Speaker identities in L2 academic presentational talk 169
ex/ explain it.^So we will just ehm ((2s)) go on   and talk about
the notion of face in Brown (and) Levinson. Now they,    they take
this eh notion of äh Goffman and of face and they split it up into
two, two seperate terms.^And  one term is the ‘‘positive face’’
and the other one the ‘‘ne/ negative face’’. Now the POsitive face
is eh . . . I, I äh boiled it down as the desire of/ for approval and
appreciation in social interaction.^So eh it’s basically the
wish that eh you yourself and your äh wants and values be accepted 
 eh in an interaction. (S4)
Both speakers start with an introduction. In the case of S1 it is a short predominantly topic-
oriented introduction, even though he connects the topic with himself (my turn), the audience
(you) and his co-presenter (our). S4 uses a more personalized introduction, identifying himself
and his co-presenters by name and relating each to a part of the content and a place in the
sequence of the presentation. Like S1, he addresses the audience as the receivers of the talk. While
S1 uses no further means of realizing himself or the audience or his co-presenter in the rest of the
200 word stretch presented here, S4 goes on to position himself and the audience in his talk by
putting emphasis on part of the content (the model in use really), claiming shared knowledge with
the audience and co-membership in the same community (we already learned) in order to justify
decisions (don’t have to explain) and the manner of proceeding (we will just go on), emphasizing
agency (I boiled it down), hedging knowledge claims (it’s basically) and involving the audience in
the presentation by casting them as the agents in illustrations (you yourself and your wants).
Differences in the frequency of metadiscourse, thus, can translate into the degree to which the
presentation of a topic, despite the monologic nature of this kind of talk, is explicitly performed as
an interactive event; i.e., information is presented as discursively negotiated by a speaking subject
who has the audience in mind (e.g. since we already learned) and as the corollary of the
presenters’ actually doing things for and with the audience (e.g. tell you something).
With 4 to 7 metadiscourse items per 100 words, the L2 experts show only a very slightly more
narrow range than the L2 students. Exposure to the academic register and the presentation genre
does not seem to result in shared knowledge which regulates the projection of the speaker’s
subjective perspective in their discourse.10
Examples (3–5) below show how differences in
frequency are again related to the density with which propositional information is explicitly
connected to the speaker’s person as the heuristic source and epistemological agent of and in
the talk.
10
At 4.3, E1, the L2 expert with German as L1, shows fewer metadiscourse than the German students.
If E1 represents ‘typical’ German L2 English expert use of metadiscourse, neither of the students is
close to this pattern.
170 Nicole Baumgarten
(3) So, what I’m interested in is ehm from eh the score line –I’ve also
got musical scores– score line four. This ehm Turkish ‘‘Hatun
((quotes Turkish from handout))’’. And eh   and the ((??)) is –
we’ve got the result in score line nine– eh ‘‘((quotes Turkish)),
ich liebe meine Frau. I made a joke. I love my wife.’’    Ahm up to
s/ eh score line four, w/ we had normal eh doctor patient
communication.   And ehm it/ the analysis of the German-German
genetic counselling sessions show that ALL patients try to
understand complex information and try to put conclusions/ eh
draw conclusions as to what they can do. Perhaps why they came
there in the ﬁr place/ in in the the ﬁr/ ehm eh ehm . . . They don’t
know what to do. So they come to counselling. And they try and work
it out. So this is nothing  euh especially  euh intercultural. It
is normal doctor-patient communication.    That shows that it’s
very important –if you’re analysing intercultural communica-
tion– to have looked at  monolingual settings. The exact same
settings. So (??) you don’t start eh eh  making something
intercultural which has nothing to do with interculturality.
Here in this ehm eh eh four and ﬁve –hatun– eh there are three
interesting points. (E1)
(4) ((1,5s)) Okay? So, we can see how  the nonnative speaker of
English, ((2s)) when teaching these contents ahm COURSE, uses
((2s)) almost three times  the percentage  of eh discourse
markers compared with the native English teacher. ((6s)) Accord-
ing to the type of register,   that we mentioned before, relative
or instructional –we divided all the markers according to these
euh ahh registers–   we can see also how ((1s)) the CLIL nonnative
teacher   uses ((1s)) far more  elements ((1,5s)) that ((1s)) the
native CLIL teacher. ((1s)) osoftlyWOkay?o/softlyW ((2s))
Both in the  regulative . . . ^ofastWWell, the regulative not so
much. The instructional,   actually.o/fastW ((1s)) It seems
that the Spanish  teacher nonnative speakers  could be due to ahm
their mother tongue. That is, in Spanish they use more   
discourse markers.   Or, as we will comment afterwards, to try
and control  that the the students have following the the class.
That is, they feel more insecure. So they try to enact these
discourse markers to try osoftlyWand and and and ando/soft-
lyWCHECK that the students are following. ((2s)) I/ It’s
Speaker identities in L2 academic presentational talk 171
important to say that . . . I I think we mentioned before that   
the children for the six groups are  comparable. That is, the   eh
the native teachers are teaching    average Spanish students.
Okay? (E3)
(5) ((1s)) And this is how the  concept of patriotism is situated in
these other conceptual clusters. We look at it and we see eh what are
the clusterings eh CLOSE to it. We look at the semantic distance of
these clustering. You’ve got patriotism is very/ the closest to
LOVE. Of course, love of one’s country. This is what is Usually
considered to be patriotism. But also loyalty. But it is danger-
oulsy close to nationalism,  too. But also to integrity, authority
and ehh other concepts which are more distant.    So, this is the
corpus-generated MAP of the conceptual clusters that we are
interested in.   However, when we look at our data that we
collected, we see that eh  ahm socio-  pragmatic conditioning of
the use of this concept in the British ah media we collected, is NOT
ah ahm identical and not symmetrical. We found out that eh hm eh it is
restricted  in British newspapers to ah hm sports conﬂict.   Mh
VERY frequently to to ah ah fun, jokes and eh ironical uses.  And eh
 quite eh eh often with reference to Scottish and American
patriotism from the British perspective. ((2s)) Ahh, other con-
texts are much LESS frequent. That is, serious talking about/ ah ah
with the so-called POsitive semantic prosodies. (E4)
The L1 experts’ frequencies are strikingly similar across the three speakers of inner circle
varieties of English. Examples (6) and (7) from the speakers’ discussion of their results show,
however, that although the presenters seem to have a common conception of how often they
themselves and the audience can be encoded in the discourse, they have idiosyncratic ways of
realizing this linguistically.
(6) ((2s)) So ((??)) why is this relevant to what I’ve been talking
about so far?^To the L2 motivational self system.   IF the
learner’s concept of his identity is integral to the L2 motiva-
tional self system . . . We’ve already seen that it IS because
Dörnyei likened this integrative disposition  to identiﬁcation
with the target language culture. Then this model of motivation
must be particularly applicable to pronunciation. ((1,5s)) So.
What does this have to say about (the) future (of) pronunciation
instruction?  Well in order to progress to these implications we
172 Nicole Baumgarten
must accept two principles:   The ﬁrst: According to Dörnyei’s
L2 motivational self system awareness of self-identity can play an
important role in motivation.   So this is the ﬁrst link we must
accept. A link between  ehm identity and motivation. ((2s)) The
second link that we must accept is that there is an explicit link
between the language learner’s identity and his or her pronuncia-
tion. So we must accept this link between identity and pronuncia-
tion.    Once we accept these two ehm assumptions, I can now make
three recommendations for more effective L2 pronunciation instru-
ction. ((1s)) I should mention at this stage that these (are) at
this early stage only recommendations. They’ve not (just)/
they’ve not as yet been fully developed.    But initially I would
like to recommend that learners should be encouraged to reﬂect on
their existing and potential linguistic identities. (NE1)
(7) ((1,5s)) ((clears throat)) So where did this come from? ((1s)) Ahm
((3s)) what I’m trying to focus on is is that in a in a  in a in a 
multiethnic multidialectal society like the United States  young
people of minority backgrounds are exposed to a variety of
dialects within the dominant language.   Can there be a connection
between a minority teenager’s choice  of a particular linguistic
code and his or HER emerging identity? ((2s)) So what I see here is
that they they have developed  ehm multiple . . . Sorry. Developed
multiple social identities    using . . . ((2s)) Skipping a little
bit.((2s)) Ahm ((1s)) I’m sorry. I skip(ped) a little bit.   Ahm
let me get back to the origins of of code acquisition. Ahm which
is . . . ((2s)) Again let’s get back to the cl/ to the class that they
go to. It’s eh it’s overwhelmingly  ahm white and Latino.   Ahm
black students are at fourteen percent. So WHERE did they learn to
speak/ eh to to to to TALK like this? And why you know why why are they
talking like this? ((1s)) So ahm ((8s)) ahm   what seems to be is
that by the two thousands AAVE became ahm sort of a lingua franca of
the new and and and very pervasive and very popular  ahm
subculture. The hip hop subculture. (NE2)
In NE4, the speaker of Indian English, the L1 expert group has one strong outlier. The issue of
similarity and difference in the use of metadiscourse and the cline between disciplinary
commonality and individuality in encoding subjectivity in presentational talk will be explored
further in more detail in the following sections.
Speaker identities in L2 academic presentational talk 173
5.2. Stance and engagement: Speaker and audience positioning
Table 8.4 shows the distribution of metadiscourse items across the subtypes of stance and
engagement.
The ﬁgures show essentially individualistic patterns for each speaker with very little
commonalities within and across the groups. The L2 student group differs from the expert groups
in the smaller range of categories employed. They make less use of speech acts connected with
politeness strategies such as greeting and thanking at the beginning and end of the talk. Further,
they seem to ﬁnd less occasion in their talk to express apologies.
For all but two speakers (S2, E1) Self-mention and Hedges are the two most frequent stance
categories and Hearer pronouns and Shared knowledge are the two most frequent engagement
categories. In other words, most of the speaker positioning work is ﬁrst, engaging in self-
referential talk in order to position the person of the speaker as the central epistemological agent in
the discourse and, secondly, to present information as challengeable subjective opinions and the
product of the speaker’s reasoning, which opens up a discursive space for alternative positions.
Audience positioning is concerned with including the audience as discourse participants. Hearer
pronouns and Shared knowledge serve to express solidarity between the speakers and their audience
by constructing them as part of the same community and guide the audience to preferred
interpretations of the information given. Shared knowledge items present information as familiar or
accepted and thereby position the audience as members of a speciﬁc knowledge community. When
shared knowledge claims are made through vague expressions (e.g. this gives you an idea; and so on;
and things) the speakers intentionally leave part of their argumentation implicit, ostensibly playing on
the existence of co-membership in a speciﬁc knowledge community. Referential vagueness leaves it
to the audience to supplement information and guess at the full propositional meaning. For presenters,
it is a way of saving speaking time, but vague expressions can also help them avoid making explicit
claims. Shared knowledge items can also refer to the common knowledge base created by the
speaker’s and audience’s co-presence in the same physical surroundings. Example (8) shows how
these four functions of speaker and audience positioning – self-reference, audience-reference, hedging
knowledge claims and constructing a knowledge community – can be realized in one utterance.
(8) They they’re talking about a pregnancy.^(And that) is referred to
as ((Turkish expression)). ((1s)) And I think here we have what is
being remembered and RE eh enacted are problems of categorisation
 of pregnancy. (E1)
The totals for stance and engagement indicate that the majority of presenters (S1, S2, S3, E3,
E4, NE1, NE2, NE3) seems to agree in placing primacy on speaker positioning in presentational
talk: They use stance metadiscourse distinctly more frequent than engagement metadiscourse.
S4 and NE4 use engagement metadiscourse more frequently. E1 and E2 show a balanced
174 Nicole Baumgarten
Table 8.4. Stance and engagement subtypes per 100 words (raw frequencies in brackets); bolded cells: two most frequently used categories for each presenter
S1 S2 S3 S4 E1 E2 E3 E4 NE1 NE2 NE3 NE4
Attitude 0.2 (4) 0.3 (3) 0.5 (8) 0.1 (3) 0.65 (14) 0.1 (3) 0.6 (22) 0.5 (12) 0.6 (19) 0.2 (8) 0.4 (11) 0.4 (16)
Booster 0.2 (5) 0.1 (1) 0.95 (14) 0.5 (13) 0.1 (2) 0.04 (1) 0.3 (10) 0.3 (6) 0.6 (18) 0.9 (32) 0.6 (14) 1.1 (44)
Hedge 1.6 (34) 0.7 (8) 1.1 (16) 0.8 (21) 0.5 (11) 0.5 (13) 1.2 (42) 0.7 (15) 1 (33) 1.2 (45) 1.7 (43) 2.6 (104)
Self-mention 1.3 (28) 2.3 (27) 1.4 (21) 0.55 (14) 0.75 (16) 1.7 (42) 1.7 (59) 2.3 (50) 1.6 (52) 2 (72) 2.1 (51) 2.5 (100)
Speaker orientation 0.1 (1) 0.4 (6) 0.1 (2) 0.05 (2)
STANCE TOTAL 3.3 (71) 3.4 (40) 4.4 (65) 2 (51) 2 (43) 2.4 (59) 3.9 (133) 3.7 (83) 3.8 (122) 4.3 (157) 4.9 (121) 6.7 (266)
Directive 0.1 (2) 0.2 (2) 0.5 (7) 0.3 (7) 0.3 (7) 0.5 (12) 0.3 (10) 0.1 (3) 0.3 (10) 0.2 (9) 0.2 (5) 0.2 (9)
Hearer pronoun 1.55 (33) 1.5 (17) 0.9 (13) 5.6 (142) 1.1 (24) 1 (24) 1 (33) 1.45 (32) 1.7 (55) 1.4 (53) 1.05 (26) 3.8 (149)
Question 0.05 (1) 0.1 (1) 0.3 (4) 0.3 (7) 0.1 (3) 0.35 (12) 0.04 (1) 0.2 (7) 0.2 (6) 0.1 (3) 0.25 (10)
Shared knowledge 0.5 (10) 0.4 (5) 0.9 (13) 0.6 (13) 0.5 (11) 0.5 (12) 0.4 (15) 0.8 (17) 0.6 (21) 0.9 (34) 0.65 (16) 3.3 (132)
Aside 0.1 (3) 0.5 (6) 0.3 (4) 0.4 (11) 0.1 (3) 0.1 (2) 0.15 (5) 0.1 (2) 0.3 (19) 0.3 (10) 0.5 (12) 0.3 (12)
Repair 0.1 (3) 0.3 (7) 0.05 (1) 0.1 (2) 0.04 (1) 0.03 (1) 0.03 (1) 0.04 (1) 0.15 (6)
Apology 0.04 (1) 0.1 (2) 0.03 (1) 0.05 (2) 0.04 (1) 0.05 (2)
Greet 0.04 (1) 0.03 (1) 0.03 (1)
Thanks 0.1 (2) 0.03 (1) 0.1 (2) 0.03 (1) 0.02 (1)
ENGAGEMENT
TOTAL
2.4 (52) 2.7 (32) 2.8 (41) 7.5 (188) 2.3 (49) 2.15 (53) 2.3 (84) 2.7 (58) 3.4 (107) 3.15 (116) 2.6 (64) 8.1 (321)
Unclear 0.1 (4)a
0.5 (12)a
a
we pronouns impossible to classify as either inclusive or exclusive.
frequency of use. Presenters differ, however, in the degree to which they make themselves and the
audience linguistically explicit and interactionally salient in their talk through the use of speaker
and hearer-deictic pronouns (Self-mention, Hearer pronouns). The use of Self-mention and Hearer
pronouns highlights the extent to which the speakers consider the presentation as a dialogic event,
i.e. the extent to which they explicitly acknowledge the presence of listeners and address their talk to
them. The speakers show different preferences for either a more speaker-oriented or more hearer-
oriented perspective in their talk. The majority of L2 experts (E2, E3, E4), two students (S2, S3) and
one L1 expert (NE3) use Self-mention distinctly more frequent than Hearer pronouns. S1, S4 and
NE4 use Hearer pronouns more frequently. S2, E1 and NE1 show a balanced frequency of use.
Example (9) illustrates the discursive foregrounding of the speaker’s person as researcher, presenter
and analyst as the effect of a high frequency of Self-mention items. Example (10) demonstrates a
prominent role for the audience as explanatory and illustrative information ancillary to the
presenter’s main argument is explicitly connected with the audience through Hearer pronouns.
(9) Now. QUAlitative corpus analysis is that we have discerned
meanings of units as discourse-INCREMENting instructions.^That
is ah we understand the meaning of a lexical unit in terms of the
incrementation of discourse via these eh units. We also look at so
called semantic prosody as I said.^That is contexts of relevant
words  that are foregrounded along the axiological axis. Whether
the words are used in POsitive or negative contexts. We also look
at keywords in context.^That is show/ they show maps or networks
of interrelated senses. And those ﬁgures of thought I mentioned
will give us the underlying interpretation of events, acts,
opinions and  attitudes.((3.5s)) Ahhm ((1s)) we used technique
eh in the framework of a project we are part of. (E4)
(10) Okay. Ahhm    I started this kind of research with these two main
questions. And how is . . . ^Basically how does the maintenance or
loss of a ethnic ident/ eh ethic language of these Surinamese-
Indian women? And because Bollywood is just SO BIG in the Nether-
lands. There is kind of a craze for it you know11
. And it’s not just
among the Surinamese-Indians. We also see young  eh Dutch people
who are Caucasian or Turkish ahm you know sort of go for these sort
of SHOWS and dances especially. So, I sort of wanted to see whether
it was sort of a re/ ahm re-alignment with Indian roots in terms of
11
None of the occurrences of you know in the data is the phonologically reduced y’know. The 2nd
person pronoun is interpreted as functional here.
176 Nicole Baumgarten
these women. that (when) you know taking these ahm Bollywood
dancing classes. (NE4)
5.3. Functions of Self-mention and Hearer pronouns
The speakers use speaker and hearer pronouns for different purposes in their presentations. The
pronouns occur at speciﬁc junctures in the presentation, which fulﬁll speciﬁc functions with
respect to the progression of the argument and the positioning of speaker and audience in the
discourse. Speaker-deictic pronouns (I, exclusive we) encode the speaker in the discourse as an
individual and identiﬁable person, and the speakers can chose in the context of which propo-
sitional information and which interactional moves they want to explicitly identify themselves.
The hearer-deictic pronouns we and you are interesting because they reveal the extent to which the
monologic presentation is enacted by the speaker as an interactive, dialogic communicative
encounter. Speakers indicate their awareness of the listening audience and express their relation to
them as a group or to individuals in the audience group. Below are the ‘micro speech acts’12
realized by utterances with speaker and hearer pronouns in the data.
 Addressing individual in the audience
 Aims of the presentation/organizer
 Apology
 Argument
 Back reference to previous
information
 Common experience
 Common knowledge
 Comprehension check
 Conclusion
 Directive
 Disclaimer
 Exempliﬁcation
 Focusing on speciﬁc information
 Hypothetical action
 Self-identiﬁcation
 Interaction with the
audience
 Invitation
 Joking
 materials
 Insufﬁcient knowledge
 Personal experience
 Personal view/opinion
 Positioning in a community
 Meta-comment on presentation
 Procedure/terminology
 Reference to the work of
others
 Reported speech
 Self-reference (own work)
 Thanks
The distribution of speaker and hearer pronouns across micro speech acts and speakers is
displayed in Tables 8.5–8.7.
12
The list is based on Vassileva’s (2002) classiﬁcation of ‘micro speech acts’ in conference
presentations.
Speaker identities in L2 academic presentational talk 177
Table 8.5. Self-mention (I, exclusive we); percentage of total; bolded cells: three most frequent
categories for each speaker
S1 S2 S3 S4 E1 E2 E3 E4 NE1 NE2 NE3 NE4
Procedure/
terminology
16 12.5 7.1 6.25 36 47.5 21.2 23.3 2 38.6
Aims/organizer 4 50 12.5 35.8 18.75 22.7 21.8 5 27 21.6 28.7 9
Argument 8.3 4.2 7.1 50 6.8 14.1 18 7.7 18.3 6.1 15.8
Personal view 16 33.3 2.3 4.8 3.3 7.7 15 2 11.8
Self-reference 11 3.3 1.6 8.8
Personal
experience
16 34.2 1.6 5 20.5 4
Metacomment
on presentation
8 6.8 1.6 6.1 3
Interaction 28 12.5 6.25
Apology 4.2 7.1 1.9 1.6 2
Self-
identiﬁcation
8.3 12.5 7.1 15.9 1.6 5.8 2 1
Disclaimer 1.9 1.6 1
Invitation 1
Materials 4.2 16.6 14.4 12.5 3.1 5 5.8 1.6 6.1
Insufﬁcient
knowledge
8 4.2 21.4 4.5 3.8
Joking 4.5
Focusing 1.5 1.6 2 1
Back reference 4.2 3.1 5 3.3 6.1
Common
experience
1.6
Exempliﬁcation 6.5 14.4
Conclusion 4 4.2 1.9 1.6 2
Positioning 11.5 1.6
Reference 8.3 6.25 2.3 3.1 3.8 2
Unclear 1.5 2.3 1
Total 4 6 11 43 31 5 10 30 37 5 2 1
178 Nicole Baumgarten
The tables show individualistic proﬁles for the use of Self-mention and Hearer pronoun for
each presenter. The presenters differ in the range of micro speech acts employed and the frequency
with which they are used. Apart from the slightly smaller range of micro speech acts employed by
the L2 students, nothing clearly differentiates student from expert or L2 from L1 performance.
This suggests that all speakers have individual strategies for explicit speaker and audience
positioning.
All speakers use Self-mention for the purposes of Aims/organizer, albeit with largely different
frequencies (4–35%). Stating the purpose of the talk and indicating stages in the progression of the
presentation is the only task that all presenters clearly recognize as unequivocally ‘their’ business,
i.e. a context in which the speaker is linguistically explicit in the talk. For seven speakers this
belongs to the two most relevant tasks to be carried out in an explicitly personalized manner. On
the whole, the L2 and L1 expert speakers prefer to use Self-mention for predominantly informative
and textual purposes: to convey propositional information about the technical aspects of the
research reported on (Procedure/terminology); to form a coherent discourse by navigating the
audience through the presentation (Aims/organizer). The interpersonally more risky choice of
Table 8.6. Hearer pronoun (inclusive we); raw frequencies
S1 S2 S3 S4 E1 E2 E3 E4 NE1 NE2 NE3 NE4
Directive 1 5 1
Argument 1 1 11 6 2 3
Exempliﬁcation 1 2 4 3 1
Common
experience
3 2 1
Common
knowledge
1 2 2 6 2 1 1 4
Aims/organizer 1 1 2 2 3 1
Reported
speech
2 3
Back reference 1 1 1
Interaction 1
Materials 4 1 1 4
Focusing 1
Reference 1
Total 3 2 7 5 15 0 19 7 18 10 7 5
Speaker identities in L2 academic presentational talk 179
presenting one’s interpretation and opinion (Personal view, Argument) explicitly from the
speaker’s perspective is less frequently connected to a speaker pronoun. Because there is only one
micro speech act which all presenters realize with speaker pronouns and because the rest of the
Self-mentions is distributed in individual patterns over micro speech acts, all presenters surface in
linguistically explicit ways at different places in their talk and are connected to speciﬁc
interactional moves. This speaker-speciﬁc patterning might contribute to making each of the
presenters appear as individual persons.
Table 8.7. Hearer pronoun (you); raw frequencies
S1 S2 S3 S4 E1 E2 E3 E4 NE1 NE2 NE3 NE4
Common
knowledge
1 2 3 4 13 22 1 123
Interaction 10 1 1 5
Exempliﬁcation 15 7 1 133 2 2 9 14 7 1 3
Aims/organizer 1 4 1 3 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 3
Common
experience
1 1 2
Directive 1 1 1 3 1 1
Materials 3 1 1 12 6 5 8 1
Thanks 2 1 2 4 1
Hypothetical
action
1 1
Invitation 2 2
Procedure/
terminology
2
Argument 1 2 2
Comprehension
check
1
Focusing 1
Metacomment
on presentation
2 2
Individual
address
1
Unclear 2
Total 32 12 6 137 8 20 8 23 33 43 19 141
180 Nicole Baumgarten
Inclusive we is used by all but one (E2) speaker. Overall, inclusive we occurs with fewer micro
speech acts than Self-mention. Again, all speakers show different preferences for micro speech
acts and the frequency with which they are encoded. Inclusive we casts speaker and audience as
members of the same group or community by virtue of shared knowledge or being co-present in
the speech situation. Three L2 students and all L1 experts use inclusive we to mark speciﬁc
information as common knowledge. Three L1 experts use inclusive we further to refer to assumed
common experience. These uses are almost absent in the L2 expert group. The L2 experts prefer
to employ inclusive we to present their argument, i.e. the interpretation of their research and its
results. In doing so, the presenters’ subjective interpretations and reasoning are introduced as
knowledge a priori shared by the audience. Such kind of knowledge claims are less challengeable
because the audience would have to resist being identiﬁed and categorized as members of the
knowledge community and posit themselves in opposition to it. Examples (11) and (12) illustrate
how the speakers’ subjective interpretations of data are represented as commonly shared,
unequivocally contingent conclusions through inclusive we.
(11) E1 (discusses data in a transcript; ‘‘he’’ refers to a speaker in the transcription, ‘‘nine’’ to a
segment of the transcript)
There is some negation here (and he’ll have) understood that.  So
ehm  at that point he realizes that there is a problem.   And this is
where we have cultural action.^The result of which we ﬁnd in nine.
(12) ((4.5s)) If we compare    the most frequent function that we’ve
mentioned before . . . Because what we did was    felter/ ﬁlter (it)
down to the most interesting to the most eh eh FREquent
functions.^So that we can have some ﬁnal some results. ((1.5s))
If we compare    ehhm the sypa/ the sympathetic circularity
function and the feedback function  at close distance. ((1s)) we
can we can see how we get conﬁrmed what I’ve said before.    That
FEEDBACK is (incredibly) used  by CLIL nonnative teachers. (E3)
The frequencies for you suggest that although all speakers use the pronoun for several
purposes, most seem to have one or two major purposes in using it. The L2 students mainly use
you for exempliﬁcation and the L1 experts to claim shared knowledge with the audience. The L2
experts show no group similarities. The range of micro speech acts realized with you by each
speaker points to the variety of contexts in which the audience is encoded as playing an active part
and presents a different pattern of audience positioning for each speaker. With each presenter, the
audience ﬁgures in different ways as participant in the talk. For example, in S2’s presentation the
audience is involved through three micro speech acts: The audience occurs as generalized
discourse participant in examples (So you cannot make someone feel good without invading his
privacy), it is addressed as the recipient of the talk (I will give you a short introduction to), and it
Speaker identities in L2 academic presentational talk 181
is instructed to perform a speciﬁc cognitive activity (Perhaps you can think of anymore/ more
situations which . . . ).
E4 positions the audience in terms of ﬁve micro speech acts: claims to shared knowledge
(There are a number of rheTORICAL questions, you know.), comprehension checks (There is a
number of CONtrasts here, you you see?), generalized discourse participant in examples (this a
priori deductive method, when you have a thesis beFORE you examine authentic data.), focusing
on speciﬁc information (such as  m –I mention to you– identity, citizenship, . . . ), orienting to
materials (I’ve given you here contexts of . . . ), and thanks (Thank you very much).
NE2, ﬁnally, encodes the audience in ten micro speech acts: He assumes common knowledge
and common experience in the audience (Again for those of you who are familiar with eh   with
the difference between [ . . . ]  you you you understand the the meaning of that.; I’m sure most
most most of most of you HERE are EDUcators . . . ). The audience also ﬁgures in examples
(Where who you know and what you know is just as [ . . . ] brings you just as much worth as your
ﬁnancial ahm ﬁnancial ahm worth), is focused on materials (And it’s on your handout.), stages in
the presentation (Ehm ((3s)) let me tell you a little bit about how this . . . ) and speciﬁc parts of the
presenters argument (I wanted to point point you to . . . ). NE2 uses you further to refer to
individual audience members (I am so glad that you brought up the concept of ﬁnding the right
BOYfriend.), to direct the audience’s behaviour (I don’t want you to get a false impression), to
express invitations (if you want to stay in touch you can email me.) and to assume hypothetical
audience reactions (Although if I had tapes with me and I play the tapes you would have a hard
time believing . . . ).
In the case of highly frequent use of few micro speech acts (especially S4, NE3, NE4), this
‘overuse’ of some strategies of audience positioning/speaker-audience interaction is likely to be
interpreted by the audience as a speaker’s personal style. This will be discussed further below.
Because audience positioning in presentational talk is generally not inﬂuenced by reactions of
the interlocutors, the kind of speaker-audience interaction encoded in the presentations can be
seen as a reﬂection of how the speakers envision their relationship with their audience and what
they can legitimately ‘do’ to and with them in addressing them directly. Patterns of audience
positioning, thus, reveal what individual speakers consider appropriate generic communicative
behaviour, i.e. behaviour that is sanctioned within the boundaries of the genre and purposeful in
the speech situation and beyond (e.g. the discussion after the talk).
5.4. Types and tokens
The distribution of metadiscourse tokens also reveals individual patterns of metadiscourse use
for each speaker. The L2 students show a total of 109 tokens, the L2 experts 149 and the L1
experts 266. Of these more than 70 percent (73% L2 students; 77% L2 experts; 82% L1 experts)
occur only once. This indicates that apart from a few frequently used items (in particular I, you,
182 Nicole Baumgarten
we) the expression of metadiscourse is characterized by variability across speakers. Each speaker
uses a more or less individualized set of items, which results in individual styles of realizing a
speaker persona in discourse.
In order to describe the degree of lexical variation and diversity in the metadiscourse employed
by the individual speakers, the type/token ratio (TTR) was computed. TTR is the ratio obtained by
dividing the types (the total number of different metadiscourse items) occurring in the presentation
by its tokens (the total number of metadiscourse items). Because the presentations are of different
length–longer discourses generally tend to have lower TTRs than shorter ones and speakers tend
to shift between high-TTR (high variety, low repetition) and low-TTR (low variety, high
repetition) stretches of talk–normalized TTRs are used.13
A high TTR for metadiscourse indicates
a high degree of lexical variation and reﬂects greater diversity in the linguistic encoding of
speaker and audience positioning. A low TTR is the result of repetitive use of a small set of items.
The manner of speaker and audience positioning are less diversiﬁed. The TTR range falls between
0 (inﬁnite repetition of a single type) and 1 (complete non-repetition in the presentation). Table 8.8
shows the TTRs for metadiscourse in the data.
The TTRs are comparatively low.14
The talk is characterized by repetitive use of few
metadiscourse items; the speakers seem to have set repertoires of items. Repetitive use of the same
items may contribute to the impression of stylistic coherence. The values for the three L1 speakers
of inner circle varieties of English are again strikingly similar. In addition, they show nearly the
same relation between the frequency of metadiscourse and the degree of diversiﬁcation (cf. Table
8.1 above). In other words, these L1 speakers seem to operate on similar assumptions of how
much speaker and audience positioning to use and the degree to which these positioning acts are
to be lexically differentiated. Possibly this is the result of socialization into the register and genre
which entailed a process of linguistic streamlining affecting the use of metadiscourse in terms of
frequency and the diversiﬁcation of the individuals’ repertoires. The L2 groups show more
variation – both with respect to the TTRs themselves and the relation between the frequency of
Table 8.8. Type/token ratio (normalized on the basis of 1000 words)
S1 S2 S3 S4 E1 E2 E3 E4 NE1 NE2 NE3 NE4
0.45 0.52 0.41 0.2 0.46 0.35 0.48 0.38 0.49 0.46 0.48 0.24
13
For each presentation, TTRs were calculated ﬁrst for segments of 1000 words; after that the average
for each presentation was established.
14
Spoken discourse typically has a low TTR due to constraints placed on speech production in real time
where limited time makes speakers tend to select from a relatively restricted vocabulary (cf. Biber,
Johansson, Leech, Conrad, & Finegan, 1999). TTRs below 0.5 are usually described as ‘low’.
Speaker identities in L2 academic presentational talk 183
metadiscourse and the TTR. The comparison with the overall frequency of metadiscourse also
shows that high frequency (S4, NE4) is not related to high lexical diversity but to repetitive use.
5.5. Summary of results
To summarize, all L2 students, who all come from the same L1 background, show different
frequencies of metadiscourse in their presentations. The L2 expert group, where all speakers come
from largely different L1 backgrounds, features two speakers with similar frequencies. The L1
expert group shows similar frequencies for the speakers of American, British and Irish English.
The strong outlier of the group, who is also the speaker with the highest metadiscourse frequency
of all, is the speaker of Indian English.
The analysis of speaker and audience positioning along the categories of stance and
engagement revealed that all speakers have the highest frequencies for Self-mention, Hearer
pronoun, Hedges and Shared knowledge, which means that self-reference, audience-reference,
hedging knowledge claims and constructing a knowledge community are deemed by all as the
essential elements of a speaker identity in monologic talk. The L2 students and experts differ from
the L1 experts in the smaller range of stance and engagement categories employed; they lack in
particular those related to politeness strategies and signalling online planning, which express
interpersonal involvement with the audience and their own talk. Apart from these group-related
features, all speakers show individual patterns of using stance and engagement features, which for
the majority of speaker results in the projection of either a clear speaker- or hearer-orientation in
their talk.
The analysis of the micro speech acts realized with speaker and hearer pronouns revealed
the type of interaction encoded by the speakers through speaker and audience positioning. All
speakers from all groups use speaker-deictic pronouns to connect themselves to information- and
textually oriented micro speech acts. A minority of speakers from across groups connect
themselves also to interpersonally oriented micro speech acts which reveal the speakers’ sub-
jective opinions, attitudes and experiences or present their scientiﬁc argument from a subjective
perspective. In all, no two speakers show similar distributions of speaker pronouns across micro
speech acts. The use of the inclusive pronoun we and the hearer pronoun you show some group
similarities: The L2 experts use the inclusive we to present their argument and scientiﬁc reasoning
form a perspective that includes themselves and the audience. The L2 students and L1 experts use
inclusive we to mark propositional information as shared common knowledge; the L1 experts use
inclusive we further to make reference to assumed common experience. The hearer-deictic
pronoun you is used by the L2 students mainly for exempliﬁcation, by the L1 experts for
attributing knowledge to the audience. Beyond these commonalities, all speakers show individual
usage patterns for the pronouns – both with respect to the range of micro speech acts realized and
the frequency with which this is done, which bears evidence of individual assumptions about the
184 Nicole Baumgarten
nature of the speaker-hearer relationship in monologic talk regarding explicitly encoded
dialogicity and enacting direct interaction.
The lexical diversity of metadiscourse is high among the speakers of the same groups, i.e.
every speaker uses their own set of metadiscourse items. The lexical variation for each speaker,
however, is low, i.e. speakers rely on the repetitive use of few metadiscourse items for speaker and
audience positioning. The speakers of British, American and Irish English have almost identical
TTRs. Taken together with their equally almost identical frequencies for metadiscourse, this
suggests that these L1 speakers – unlike the speakers in the L2 groups – operate on some kind of
shared knowledge about the frequency and diversity of speaker and audience positioning in the
genre.
In all, the results suggest that all speakers encode and project distinctive speaker identities in
their presentations. The presentational talk examined here contains only few set elements of
speaker and audience positioning – with audience positioning showing some group
characteristics. Beyond these, individually diversiﬁed patterns with only little overlap between
speakers within and across groups characterize the presentations. The comparison of the L2
students and the L2 experts does not show that longer exposure to and experience in the genre –
and consequently more genre- and register-speciﬁc practice in the L2 – lead to more of a shared
idea of how to encode a speaker identity in L2 presentational talk. Likewise, there does not seem
to exist a L2 academic community-speciﬁc way of using metadiscourse and constructing speaker
identities. The comparison of the L2 experts and the L1 experts shows that socialization into and
prolonged membership in the same disciplinary community does not result in similar ways of self-
expression. In contrast, L1 English socialization into the academic community seems to result in
some homogeneity with regard to the frequency of metadiscourse use and the degree of its lexical
diversiﬁcation when the speakers come from and operate in an inner circle English context. On the
ﬁner levels of metadiscourse, i.e. with respect to the subcategories of stance and engagement
metadiscourse, the verbalization of micro speech acts and the repertoire of metadiscourse markers,
however, all L1 speakers show again different proﬁles. This suggests the existence of individual
preferences for expressing one’s self in the presentation. The observed variation within the groups,
its relation to individuality and idiosyncrasy in self-expression and L2 proﬁciency will be taken up
in the conclusion.
6. CONCLUSION
The analysis of speakers’ identity construction through metadiscursive speaker and audience
positioning in L1 and L2 and student and expert academic presentational speech is inconclusive as
to whether there exist group-speciﬁc ways of accomplishing this. Although some similarities
subsist within and across groups, the data sets of the groups are too small and the range of
Speaker identities in L2 academic presentational talk 185
categories to large to argue for the representativeness of the degree of interspeaker and intergroup
variation. However, the analysis yields some insight into the linguistic construction of a speaker
identity and an individual voice in presentational talk.
Because the construction of speaker identities is a relational process, the assumption of a
particular speaker identity or persona in discourse is ultimately guided by what speakers believe to
be recognizable and sanctioned by their interlocutors. None of the speakers in the present data is
new to the task of giving an academic presentation. In all presentations a structural pattern of (pre-
beginning –) introduction of the topic – main content (– pre-closing) – closing is discernible. The
use of metadiscourse by the speakers, i.e. the way of being visible as the speaking subject and the
epistemic and epistemological agent in one’s own talk, is therefore to be seen as the result of what
the speakers believe is generically adequate and communicatively effective in the situation.
Johnstone (1996) argues that the expression of an individual voice in discourse is a universal
condition. In her analyses she shows how even in very formalized speech genres (academic round
table debate, pre-scripted telephone survey) speakers attempt to and succeed in conveying the
impression of being an individual person to their interlocutors. They achieve this through
particular linguistic and interactional choices. Johnstone’s approach to linguistic individuality is
related to La Page and Tabouret-Keller’s (1985) assumption that people’s linguistic behaviour is
‘‘a series of acts of identity in which people reveal both their personal identity and their search for
social roles’’ (p.14). On this view, linguistic and interactional choice is the choice for the
projection of particular aspects of the speaker’s self and his or her view of the world, epitomized
in the particular moment and interpersonal constellation for which the choice is made. Because
linguistic and interactional choices are projections, it follows that choice is made with a view to the
interlocutor to whom the utterance is addressed (La Page & Tabouret-Keller, 1985, pp. 180–183).
Interspeaker variation and idiosyncratic language use is thus not the palpable difference between
random linguistic behaviour by individuals, but the reﬂection of the individuals’ ideas of linguistic
norms in a particular situation and their individual choices in the realization of self-expression in
that situation (cf. Johnstone, 1996).
The present analysis has shown that although all speakers make claim to the same social/
situational role of academic presenter,15
they differ in the kind of presenter they project to the
audience. However, they do not necessarily differ along the parameters of L1/L2 and novice/
expert speaker. Their individuality arises out of the kind of subjectivity that is encoded through
15
None of the presentations shows signs of the speakers’ resisting the role of academic presenter, a
reluctance to take control of the presentation situation or ambivalence towards the task (cf. Benwell &
Stokoe, 2002, 2005 for students’ reluctance to take on academic expert identities). All speakers uphold
the conventional generic form (cf. Ventola, 2002) and use the register associated with the genre. All
lexicalize in one way or other their epistemic responsibility for the content and procedural aspects of the
presentation.
186 Nicole Baumgarten
their use of metadiscourse: its overall frequency, the diversiﬁcation of tokens, and the range and
weighting of the stance and engagement categories present in their talk.
Judging from the data it is perhaps possible to distinguish further between individual and
idiosyncratic linguistic behaviour in relation to the construction of a speaker identity through
metadiscourse. The use of metadiscourse reveals the performative aspect of giving an academic
presentation and constructing a speaker identity. Some speakers, however, appear as ‘more’
performative in that they exhibit conspicuous and thus comparatively memorable linguistic
behaviour. Idiosyncratic behaviour, then, is the presence of linguistic or interactive features that
appear to be the ‘property’ of one particular speaker in a given situation. Idiosyncratic use relates
to markedly non-conventional ways of using linguistic devices in the situation, e.g. regarding the
frequency of use for particular items, form-function pairings (cf. Johnstone, 1996), or interactional
choices. In the present data four speakers show idiosyncratic behaviour of this kind: S4 uses the
hearer-deictic pronoun you 133 times to include his audience in the talk by casting them as
participants in examples (So you leave him OPtions and he has got his freedom of action and
you are not imposing on him.). NE4 uses the discourse marker you know extremely frequently
(116 times). In doing so she addresses the audience, claims shared knowledge and solidarity and
hedges her claims. The high density of the marker use also imparts a degree of colloquiality to her
talk. NE3 shows idiosyncratic behaviour through metadiscursive asides in which he soliloquizes
about the low processing speed of the computer equipment he is using (I don’t know ((2s)) why
that should be). These three speakers show linguistically idiosyncratic types of behaviour that is
arguably within the generic boundaries of the presentation genre, because they fulﬁl functions that
belong to the conventional aspects of the presentation task that can be lexicalized in talk. In
contrast, E2 engages in idiosyncratic behaviour which stretches the generic boundaries, because
it seems to fall outside the interactional options available in the genre: She chooses to involve
the audience in an exchange of goods by offering them chocolate (I would like to make my
presentation enjoyable. Therefore I have some Hungarian chocolate for you).
Finally, a problem in positing interspeaker variation and idiosyncratic linguistic choice as
manifestations of individualistic self-expression arises for the L2 speakers – possibly in particular
for those who show low frequencies and low degrees of diversiﬁcation. The question is whether
they are constrained in their self-expression by their restricted learner language repertoires, i.e.
whether they express the kind and amount of metadiscourse they want to express or only what
they are able to lexicalize in their L2. In the case of the L2 students, the lack of experience in the
genre and the concomitant lack of knowledge about the expectations of speaker construction in
the genre could explain the individualistic patterns of metadiscourse use. In the case of the L2
experts, whose L2 use is assumed to be honed by repeated practice in the task, the use of
metadiscourse could also be a reﬂection of the communicative conventions of the comparable
L1 genre. To be able to put the interspeaker variation among L2 presenters into perspective,
comparable L1 data for all L2s involved has to be looked at.
Speaker identities in L2 academic presentational talk 187
TRANSCRIPTION CONVENTIONS
. falling intonation
? rising intonation
, continuing intonation
‘‘ ’’ quotation intonation
 pause of 0.25s
((_s)) pause in seconds
^ latching
/ repair
CAPS prosodic prominence
( ) unclear
. . . aborted utterance
(??) incomprehensible
((comment)) transcriber’s comment/description
[ . . . ] extraneous data
REFERENCES
Aguilar, M. (2008). Metadiscourse in academic speech. A relevance-theoretic approach. Frankfurt am Main:
Peter Lang.
Alessi, G. (2005). The use of metadiscourse in EAP presentations by native Italian speakers. In J. Bamford &
M. Bondi (Eds.), Dialogue within discourse communities. Intercultural and interdiscoursal
perspectives (pp. 179–189). Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Andersen, K. G. (2001). The joint production of conversation: Turn-sharing and collaborative overlap in
encounters between non-native speakers of English. Aalborg: Aalborg Universitetsforlag.
Artiga León, M. R. (2006). The semantic-pragmatic interface of authorial presence in academic lecturing
phraseology. Iberica, 12, 127–144.
Bamford, J. (2005). Interactivity in academic lectures: The role of questions and answers. In J. Bamford &
M. Bondi (Eds.), Dialogue within discourse communities: Metadiscursive perspectives on academic
genres (pp. 123–146). Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Bell, A. (1984). Language style as audience design. Language in Society, 13, 145–204.
Bell, A. (2001). Back in style: Re-working audience design. In P. Eckert & J. R. Rickford (Eds.), Style and
sociolinguistic variation (pp. 139–169). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Benveniste, É. (1971). Subjectivity in language. In É. Benveniste (Ed.), Problems in general linguistics
(pp. 223–230, M. E. Meek, Trans.). Coral Gables: University of Miami Press. (Original work published
1966.).
Benwell, B., & Stokoe, E. H. (2002). Constructing discussion tasks in university tutorials. Shifting dynamics
and identities. Discourse Studies, 4(4), 429–453.
Benwell, B., & Stokoe, E. H. (2005). University students resisting academic identity. In K. Richards &
P. Seedhouse (Eds.), Applying Conversation Analysis (pp. 124–142). Basingstoke, UK: Palgrave
Macmillan.
188 Nicole Baumgarten
Biber, D. (2006). University language. A corpus-based study of spoken and written registers. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Biber, D., Johansson, S., Leech, G., Conrad, S., & Finegan, E. (1999). Grammar of spoken and written
English. London: Longman.
Buchholtz, M., & Hall, K. (2005). Identity and interaction: A sociocultural approach. Discourse Studies,
7(4/5), 585–612.
Carter-Thomas, S., & Rowley-Jolivet, E. (2001). Syntactic differences in oral and written scientiﬁc discourse:
The role of information structure. ASP, 31/33, 19–37.
Crismore, A. (1989). Talking with readers. Metadiscourse as rhetorical act. New York, NY: Peter Lang.
Davies, C. E., & Tyler, A. E. (2005). Discourse strategies in the context of cross-cultural institutional
talk. Uncovering interlanguage pragmatics in the university classroom. In K. Bardovi-Harlig &
B. S. Hartford (Eds.), Interlanguage pragmatics. Exploring institutional talk (pp. 133–156). Mahwah,
NJ: Erlbaum.
Davies, C. E., Tyler, A. E., & Koran, J. J. (1998). Face-to-face with English speakers. An advanced training
class for international teaching assistants. Journal of English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 8(2), 139–153.
Dubois, B. L. (1980). The use of slides in biomedical speeches. The ESP Journal, 1(1), 45–50.
Dubois, B. L. (1987). Something on the order of around forty to forty-four. Imprecise Numerical Expressions
in Biomedical Slide Talks. Language in Society, 16(4), 527–541.
Dyer, J., & Keller-Cohen, D. (2000). The discursive construction of professional self through narratives of
personal experience. Discourse Processes, 2(3), 283–304.
Eckert, P. (2003). The meaning of style. Texas Linguistic Forum, 47, 41–53.
Firth, A. (1996). The discursive accomplishment of normality. On ‘lingua franca’ English and Conversational
Analysis. Journal of Pragmatics, 26, 237–260.
Fortanet, I. (2004). The use of ‘we’ in university lectures: Reference and function. English for Speciﬁc
Purposes, 23, 45–66.
Halliday, M., & Hasan, R. (1976). Cohesion in English. London: Longman.
Heino, A., Tervonen, E., & &Tommola, J. (2002). Metadiscourse in academic conference presentations. In
E. Ventola, C. Shalom & S. Thompson (Eds.), The language of conferencing (pp. 127–146). Frankfurt
am Main: Peter Lang.
House, J. (1999). Misunderstanding in intercultural communication: Interactions in English as a lingua franca
and the myth of mutual intelligibility. In C. Gnutzmann (Ed.), Teaching and learning English as a
global language (pp. 73–93). Tübingen: Stauffenburg.
House, J. (2002). Developing pragmatic competence in English as a lingua franca. In K. Knapp &
C. Meierkord (Eds.), Lingua franca communication (pp. 245–269). Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Hyland, K. (1998). Persuasion and context: The pragmatics of academic metadiscourse. Journal of
Pragmatics, 30, 437–455.
Hyland, K. (2005a). Metadiscourse. Exploring interaction in writing. London: Continuum.
Hyland, K. (2005b). Stance and engagement: A model of interaction in academic discourse. Discourse Studies,
7(2), 173–191.
Jenkins, J., Cogo, A., & Dewey, M. (2011). Review of developments in research into English as a lingua
franca. Language Teaching, 44(3), 281–315.
Johnstone, B. (1996). The linguistic individual: Self-expression in language and linguistics. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
La Page, R. B., & Tabouret-Keller, A. (1985). Acts of identity: Creole-based approaches to language and
ethnicity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Speaker identities in L2 academic presentational talk 189
Lin, C.-Y. (2010). ‘ . . . that’s actually sort of you know trying to get consultants in . . . ’. Functions and
multifunctionality of modiﬁers in academic lectures. Journal of Pragmatics, 42, 1173–1183.
Mauranen, A. (1993). Cultural differences in academic rhetoric. A textlinguistic study. Frankfurt am Main:
Peter Lang.
Mauranen, A. (2002). ‘A good question’: Expressing evaluation in academic speech. In G. Cortese & P. Riley
(Eds.), Domain-speciﬁc English. Textual practices across communities and classrooms (pp. 115–139).
Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Mauranen, A. (2004). ‘They’re a little bit different’. Variation and hedging in academic speech. In K. Aijmer &
A.-B. Stenström (Eds.), Discourse patterns in spoken and written corpora (pp. 173–197). Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Mauranen, A. (2005). English as lingua franca. An unknown language? In G. Cortese & A. Duszak (Eds.),
Identity, community, discourse. English in intercultural settings (pp. 269–293). Frankfurt am Main:
Peter Lang.
Mauranen, A. (2006). Signaling and preventing misunderstanding in English as lingua franca communication.
International Journal of the Sociology of Language, 177, 123–150.
Mauranen, A., & Bondi, M. (2003). Evaluative language use in academic discourse. Journal of English for
Academic Purposes, 2, 269–271.
Meierkord, C. (2004). Syntactic variation in interactions across international Englishes. English World Wide,
25(1), 109–132.
Morita, N. (2000). Discourse socialization through oral classroom activities in a TSL graduate program.
TESOL Quarterly, 34(2), 279–310.
Morton, J. (2009). Genre and disciplinary competence: A case study of contextualization in an academic
speech genre. English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 28, 217–229.
Ochs, E. (1993). Constructing social identity: A language socialization perspective. Research on Language
and Social Interaction, 26(3), 287–306.
Räisäanen, C. (1999). The conference forum as a system of genres: A socio-cultural study of academic
conference practices in automotive crash-safety engineering. Göteborg: Acta Universitatis Gotho-
burgensis.
Rendle-Short, J. (2006). The academic presentation. Situated talk in action. Aldershot: Ashgate.
Rowley-Jolivet, E., & Carter-Thomas, S. (2005a). The rhetoric of conference presentation introductions:
Context, argument and interaction. International Journal of Applied Linguistics, 15(1), 45–70.
Rowley-Jolivet, E., & Carter-Thomas, S. (2005b). Scientiﬁc conference Englishes. Epistemic and language
community variations. In G. Cortese & A. Duszak (Eds.), Identity, community, discourse. English in
intercultural settings (pp. 295–320). Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Rowley-Jolivet, E., & Carter-Thomas, S. (2005c). Genre awareness and rhetorical appropriacy: Manipulation
of information structure by NS and NNS scientists in the international conference setting. English for
Speciﬁc Purposes, 24, 41–64.
Schleef, E. (2009). Gender and academic discourse: Global restrictions and local possibilities. Language in
Society, 37, 515–538.
Shalom, C. (2002). The academic conference: A forum for enacting genre knowledge. In E. Ventola,
C. Shalom & S. Thompson (Eds.), The language of conferencing (pp. 51–68). Frankfurt am Main:
Peter Lang.
Sinclair, J. (2005). Language as a string of beads. Discourse and the M-word. In E. Tognini-Bonelli & C. Del
Lungo Camiciotti (Eds.), Strategies in academic discourse (pp. 163–168). Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
190 Nicole Baumgarten
Swales, J. M. (1990). Genre analysis. English in academic and research Settings. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Swales, J. M. (2004). Research genres. Explorations and applications. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Thompson, S. (1998). Why ask questions in monologue? Language choice at work in scientiﬁc and linguistic
talk. In S. Hunston (Ed.). Language at work (pp. 137–150). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters. (Selected
papers from the Annual Meeting of the British Association for Applied Linguistics 1997.).
Thompson, S. (2002). As the story unfolds: The uses of narrative research presentations. In E. Ventola,
C. Shalom & S. Thompson (Eds.), The language of conferencing (pp. 147–168). Frankfurt am Main:
Peter Lang.
Vassileva, I. (2002). Speaker-audience interaction: The case of Bulgarians presenting in English. In E. Ventola,
C. Shalom & S. Thompson (Eds.), The language of conferencing (pp. 255–276). Frankfurt am Main:
Peter Lang.
Ventola, E. (2002). Why and what kind of focus on conference presentations? In E. Ventola, C. Shalom &
S. Thompson (Eds.), The language of conferencing (pp. 15–50). Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Webber, P. (2005). Interactive features in medical conference monologue. English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 24,
157–181.
Zareva, A. (2009a). Informational packaging, level of formality, and the use of circumstance adverbials in L1
and L2 student academic presentations. Journal of English for Academic Purposes, 8, 55–68.
Zareva, A. (2009b). Student academic presentations. The processing side of interactiveness. English Text
Construction, 2(2), 265–288.
Speaker identities in L2 academic presentational talk 191
This page intentionally left blank
Subjectivity in Language and in Discourse
Edited by Nicole Baumgarten, Inke Du Bois and Juliane House
r 2012 by Emerald Group Publishing Limited. All rights reserved.
9
SAYING WHAT YOU THINK: AN ANALYSIS OF
FRENCH AND AUSTRALIAN ENGLISH NON-NATIVE
SPEAKER EXPRESSION OF SUBJECTIVITY
Kerry Mullan
1. INTRODUCTION
This chapter examines the expression of subjectivity in a second language (hereafter L2) by
non-native French and Australian English1
speakers through the speciﬁc epistemic expressions
I think, je pense (literally ‘I think’), je crois (literally ‘I believe’) and je trouve (literally ‘I ﬁnd’).2
These expressions will hereafter be referred to as comment clauses, since they can be considered
epistemic parentheticals which are clausal in origin and which function as pragmatic markers
(Brinton, 2008). As Biber, Johansson, Leech, Conrad, and Finegan (1999) point out, comment
clauses are also usually short, loosely connected to the main clause and can appear in a variety of
positions (p. 197); all of these features apply to I think and its equivalents in this study.
Early on in their studies of French and English as a second (or foreign) language, learners are
usually presented with je pense, je crois and je trouve as having the literal meanings of I think,
I believe and I ﬁnd; while this is true in some cases, it does not present a complete picture. These
comment clauses are usually introduced to the learner again later as ways of prefacing an opinion
1
The participants were either native French speakers from France, or Australian English speakers who
identify themselves as ‘‘Anglo-Australian’’.
2
Unless stated otherwise, all references to je pense, je crois and je trouve also refer to the inclusion of
the subordinator que (‘that’) where this is syntactically obligatory at the beginning of a proposition in
standard European French, i.e. je pense que, je crois que and je trouve que.
(with little explanation beyond that). This limited presentation to L2 learners is overly simplistic
and eventually quite unhelpful, since in fact, as we shall see, the equivalent of the French
comment clauses is usually I think in native English speaker interaction, where I believe and I ﬁnd
are used far less frequently.
Numerous studies have been carried out on such comment clauses in interaction, and the
importance of pragmatic competence in one’s second language is also well documented in the
literature (Kasper & Rose, 2002; Tateyama, Kasper, Mui, Tay, & Thananart, 1997; Thomas, 1983,
inter alia), and yet, as Müller (2005, p. 14) also points out, there are very few interlanguage
pragmatics studies which combine these elements by investigating the acquisition of such
comment clauses by L2 learners.3
The present study attempts to address this situation by combining a semantic and interactional
analysis of these four comment clauses, to illustrate their non-isomorphic nature.4
I will argue that
the underlying inherent semantic content of each comment clause is distinct, and that disclaiming
knowledge of the upcoming proposition is integral to I think in Australian English, while this need
to distinguish fact from opinion is not part of the core meaning of any of the three French
comment clauses.
An earlier study of the discourse of native speakers (NS) of French and Australian English
(Mullan, 2007, 2010) found that interactionally all four comment clauses are multifunctional and
have three main roles in discourse as follows: organisational (e.g. to mark a boundary in discourse),
semantic (to express an opinion/level of certainty) and pragmatic (as a face-saving device).
Using examples from authentic non-native speaker discourse, this chapter will discuss how
these semantic and interactional nuances are not always evident to non-native speakers (NNS) in
their second language, and what effect this can have in interaction when they use these
expressions of subjectivity in their L2. Using Müller’s (2005) comprehensive study of four
discourse markers as used by non-native and native (American) English speakers as an example, I
set out to answer the following speciﬁc questions in relation to my own data (adapted from
Müller, 2005, p. 24):
(a) How does the frequency of the comment clauses in the (French and English) non-native
speaker discourse compare with the frequency in the native speaker discourse?
(b) Which functions do the comment clauses have in the native speaker discourse?
(c) Which of these functions also occur in the non-native discourse?
(d) How do the frequencies of the functions of the comment clauses compare in native and
non-native speaker discourse?
3
Müller refers speciﬁcally to discourse markers.
4
Cf. also Doro-Mégy (2008) for a contrastive study of think, believe, croire and penser with a particular
focus on the constraints of translating these predicates in literature.
194 Kerry Mullan
2. DATA
The analysis is based on a corpus of six conversations totalling four hours, and is part of a
larger project which originally involved the interactional and semantic analysis of NS use of the
comment clauses I think, je pense, je crois and je trouve (Mullan, 2007, 2010). The participants
are aged between 22 and 42, of middle-class background, all have (or are studying for) a
university degree, are all of European origin and come from different parts of Australia and
France. The participants were made up of two complete strangers meeting for the ﬁrst time, and
are all speakers of standard French or general Australian English.5
It is generally accepted that length of residency in a foreign country and native speaker contact
(Müller, 2005, p. 50) can affect one’s interactional style in the target language (and indeed the ﬁrst
language (L1)). For this reason, the participants were chosen for this study on the basis that they
had all spent less than two years in a country where their L2 was spoken.
Another important factor to be considered in any study of this nature is of course L2
proﬁciency. Although the speakers were not asked to undergo a proﬁciency test, it was made clear
at the time of recruiting the participants that they would be required to have a reasonable level of
ﬂuency, since they would be asked to hold a conversation in their L2 for approximately 45
minutes. Whilst the proﬁciency levels of the speakers varied somewhat, none of them had any
trouble holding a conversation, and all displayed a reasonable use of colloquial expressions and a
wide range of vocabulary. However, as will be seen, the proﬁciency levels did affect some non-
native speakers’ intonation in their L2, which in turn affected the prosody of the comment clauses
under investigation, as uttered by the NNS. More information concerning the participants’ prior
studies in the target language might therefore have been useful, as a measure of control.
While the study did not control for age, gender, socio-economic background or town of origin
of the participants, where possible, the speakers’ backgrounds and their relationship to each other
were as similar as possible, to enable the ﬁndings to be more comparable. An attempt was made to
ensure that the conversations were also similar in terms of set-up, length and topics discussed.
These included life in Australia and/or France, the role of honesty in a relationship and the
importance of expressing one’s opinion. The topics were chosen on the basis that the participants
would have knowledge and perhaps personal experience of these issues, and would therefore be
likely to elicit an opinion from the participants.
5
It is generally agreed that there are three main types of Australian English: broad, general and
cultivated, and that these are largely distinguished on the basis of vowel pronunciation (cf. Horvath,
1985). Hansen (1997, p. 154) deﬁnes standard French as ‘‘the kind which is spoken by educated
Parisian speakers and which exhibits no noticeable regional or social characteristics’’. While this may
seem a narrow deﬁnition, it is representative of the French spoken by the participants.
Saying what you think 195
It must of course be acknowledged that the following analysis is only directly representative of
the present small set of data; however, the ﬁndings have been reached as part of the analysis of a
larger corpus of French and Australian English NS (Mullan, 2007, 2010), and are therefore
somewhat more widely generalisable. Tables 9.1 and 9.2 provide details of the participants in the
present study (pseudonyms are used throughout).
The participants were paired with a member of the opposite sex in each conversation, except
for one all-female dyad in each group. For reasons of participant availability at the time of data
collection, there was no corresponding all-male dyad in each group, which prevented me from
controlling for gender in this study. However, while one might expect certain gender differences to
appear, the analysis showed that this was not in fact the case. Some of Coates’ earlier research
(1997, 1998) has indicated that the topic of conversation and the degree of solidarity between
speakers can affect the function of epistemic modals in conversation, and can thus lead to
differences in usage by gender. However, given that the topics discussed by my participants were
generally chosen for them, and that these topics and the degree of solidarity were similar across all
the dyads, my study remains unaffected by these ﬁndings.
The participants were recorded in conversation with each other; although I was also present as
the researcher, my participation was limited to asking questions on certain topics to initiate the
conversation between the two speakers, and to adding comments occasionally. Despite the fact
that the conversations recorded for this corpus were pre-arranged and therefore not impromptu,
the data conform to Levinson’s deﬁnition (1983) of conversation as
Table 9.1. Participants of French conversations
Native speaker Non-native speaker
Christine (f) Jane (f)
Carine (f) Darren (m)
Louis (m) Karen (f)
Table 9.2. Participants of Australian English conversations
Native speaker Non-native speaker
Beth (f) Daniel (m)
Heather (f) Marie (f)
Len (m) Suzanne (f)
196 Kerry Mullan
[ . . . ] that familiar predominant kind of talk in which two or more participants freely alternate in
speaking, which generally occurs outside speciﬁc institutional settings like religious services, law
courses, classrooms and the like. (p. 284)
The conversations are authentic and consist of natural data in response to certain questions for
the purpose of the data collection. Recording them in a controlled setting ensured a certain
Table 9.3. Words and intonation units by NS and NNS French speakers
Participants Minutes Words Intonation
units
Intonation units per 100
words
Christine 37.29 3,538 566 16
Jane (NNS) 2,747 549 20
Carine 55.50 4,172 751 18
Darren
(NNS)
4,454 846 19
Louis 34.50 3,497 490 14
Karen
(NNS)
2,595 467 18
Total 2 hrs 8 min15 s 9,796 3,669 17.5 (average)
Table 9.4. Words and intonation units by NS and NNS Australian English speakers
Participants Minutes Words Intonation
units
Intonation units per 100
words
Daniel
(NNS)
45.44 3,951 672 17
Beth 2,499 450 18
Heather 36.30 2,217 454 20.5
Marie (NNS) 3,133 689 22
Len 44.44 5,160 826 16
Suzanne
(NNS)
2,968 505 17
Total 2 hrs 6 min 2 s 10,052 3,596 18 (avg.)
Saying what you think 197
consistency of topics. Since the focus of the research was to examine the different ways of
expressing opinions in French and Australian English, it was necessary to provide topics to the
participants which would result in a discussion where opinions were exchanged. This then
allowed for a direct comparison of the data.
The number of minutes, words and intonation units per speaker are provided in Tables 9.3
and 9.4.
3. METHODOLOGY
The data were analysed qualitatively using the principles of the sequential-interactional
frameworks of Interactional Sociolinguistics and Conversation Analysis (CA). Both of these
frameworks were chosen for the analysis of the data due to their emphasis on the detailed analysis
of natural data, and on the social and linguistic meaning created during interaction. I will limit
myself to a brief discussion here (cf. Mullan & Karlsson, this volume, for a detailed description of
these concepts).
Central to Interactional Sociolinguistics is Gumperz’s desire for a ‘‘general theory of verbal
communication which integrates what we know about grammar, culture and interactive con-
ventions into a single overall framework of concepts and analytical procedures’’ (1982, p. 4).
These concepts are contextualisation cues (prosody and isolated intonation units), contextual
presupposition (assumed background knowledge) and situated inference (understanding the
communicative activity and the speaker’s actual illocutionary act).
Gumperz observed that in today’s multicultural societies, people from distinct linguistic and
cultural backgrounds regularly come into contact with each other, and that this can lead to certain
communication problems or breakdown (cf. Gumperz’s (1982, 1992) seminal research into the
communication difﬁculties between speakers of British and Indian English). Although Gumperz’s
research contained several instances of communication breakdown, my own research contains
very few examples of such obvious misunderstandings. With the exception of some instances of
minor interactional trouble in my data, the interactions between native and non-native speaker
appeared to be largely unproblematic on the surface. Previous studies have shown however, that
French and Australian English speakers are sometimes left with a general negative feeling
following an interaction with each other (Béal, 2010, inter alia), when the speakers interpret the
other’s way of speaking from their own perspective.
One of the reasons for this has been found to be the value placed on the expression of opinion
in the two cultures (to be discussed further below). For example, in an interesting parallel to
Gumperz’s (1982) gatekeeper research on British and Indian English speakers in job interviews,
Lipovsky (2000) found that Australians speaking French in interview role plays tended to overuse
je pense (‘I think’), giving their French interviewers the impression that they were unassertive and
198 Kerry Mullan
not sure of their abilities. This is an example of the misinterpretation of contextualisation cues by
both parties; the Australians used je pense according to their own use of I think, and the French
speakers read these cues according to their own use and understanding of je pense.
The principle aim of CA is to discover how participants understand and respond to each other’s
turns in naturally occurring talk-in-interaction. The central interactional organisation concepts of
CA are turn-taking in interaction; adjacency pairs; preference and preferred responses; recipient
design (where talk is constructed in ways which display an orientation and sensitivity to the
interlocutor); and repair.
While it is more common to adopt the TCU (turn construction unit) as the unit of analysis in CA,
I have instead used the intonation unit (IU), deﬁned by Du Bois, Schuetze-Coburn, Cumming, and
Paolino (1993) as ‘‘a stretch of speech uttered under a single coherent intonation contour [ . . . ]
marked by cues such as a pause and a shift upward in overall pitch level at its beginning, and a
lengthening of its ﬁnal syllable’’ (p. 47). The reasons for choosing the IU over the TCU are brieﬂy
the following (cf. also Mullan & Karlsson, this volume): Chafe (1993) describes IUs as ‘‘in a sense
what language is all about’’ (p. 37). He points out that if the IU is a verbal representation of what is
in the speaker’s mind at a certain time, then the speaker’s intention must be to convey that idea to
the listener; in this way intonation units can reveal how much and what kind of information a
speaker can focus on at once (p. 39). This is clearly linked to the CA concept of recipient design and
the sequential nature of co-construction of discourse in CA and Interactional Sociolinguistics.
Also unlike traditional CA studies, I present some basic frequency counts of IUs and comment
clauses. The quantitative data are intended as an illustration of the functions and positions of the
comment clauses which have all been analysed individually and qualitatively in context (in
accordance with CA). Table 9.5 presents the overall distribution of the comment clauses under
investigation.
All conversations were transcribed using a combination of the conventions of CA devised by
Jefferson (1994), and the University of California, Santa Barbara method of discourse
Table 9.5. Distribution of comment clauses by French and Australian English non-native
speakers
Tokens Per 1,000 words
I think 63 6.27
je pense 30 3.6
je crois 27 2.6
je trouve 12 1.22
Saying what you think 199
transcription devised by Du Bois et al. (1993); full details of these conventions appear at the end
of this chapter.
4. EXPRESSING OPINIONS IN FRENCH AND AUSTRALIAN INTERACTION
Opinions are sometimes expressed so forcefully that they sound like facts. Nothing is a fact
unless it can be double-checked, or has been proved beyond doubt. (Wise, 1999, p. 110)
Different ways of speaking in different societies are based on distinctive cultural priorities and
values. As Wierzbicka (2006) points out, ‘‘ways of thinking which are widely shared in a society
become enshrined in ways of speaking’’ (p. 22). Of particular interest to us here are the
interactional styles of French and Australian English speakers, notably the respective value placed
on the expression of opinion in interaction.
It has been found that for French speakers exchanging ideas is highly valued – it shows
commitment to the conversation by way of involvement with one’s interlocutor (Béal, 2010, inter
alia; Kerbrat-Orecchioni, 1990). In Béal’s (1998) study, the Australian English speakers’
reluctance to express opinions led some of the French informants to describe Australians as
‘wishy-washy’ (p. 6). For example, when discussing their weekend, Béal found that her
Australian participants generally preferred to give facts and information about events, where her
French participants tended to express opinions and feelings (1992, pp. 29, 35). Béal suggests that
French speakers believe that the person asking the question is more interested in the speaker than
in the facts and, therefore, in what the speaker thinks and feels about something, be it negative or
positive, and so volunteer their opinions spontaneously (1992, p. 35).
One of my French NS participants (from Mullan, 2007, 2010) felt that he had a duty to express
his opinion:
(1) Guillaume: Il faut donner son opinion. Tout le temps. Tout le temps. Si on a quelque
chose à dire, il faut le dire. Sinon on fait pas avancer le monde.
Guillaume: You have to give your opinion. All the time. All the time. If you’ve got
something to say, you have to say it. Otherwise we don’t make the world
progress.
Where expressing one’s opinion is extremely important for French speakers, this is not necessarily
always the case for Australian English speakers. While Australians do of course express opinions,
this must be done within certain limitations: opinions must not be presented as fact (cf. quotation
from Wise above), and they must not be imposed on one’s interlocutor (Wierzbicka, 2006, p. 55).
This is achieved by prefacing opinions with I think or in my view, thereby implying more
detachment from the statement.
200 Kerry Mullan
As Wierzbicka points out, by overtly marking a statement as our own opinion we are
emphasising that it is not fact, and at the same time we are acknowledging that our interlocutor
might not be of the same opinion (and has a perfect right not to be). Schiffrin (1990) sees opinions
as ‘‘free[ing] the speaker [ . . . ] from a claim to truth’’ (p. 245) since they are unveriﬁable,
subjective views – and therefore unavailable for proof – and so ‘‘another’s right to doubt the
validity of an opinion cannot be denied’’ (p. 248).
In his book on (English) conversation, Wardaugh (1985) states that
[i]n general, opinions are not likely to be stated unequivocally and bluntly: we are usually not so
‘opinionated’. Instead, we hedge or modify what we say. [ . . . ] Unhedged language on important
topics is a sure sign of dogmatically held beliefs: X is right [wrong, good, bad], and so on. [ . . . ]
But people who insist on constantly using this kind of framing device for statements are likely to
be seen as hard and inﬂexible; they leave little room for cooperation with others who might not
share their opinions. (pp. 181–183)
Expressions such as I think ‘‘leave the door open to other opinions and tend to promote
discussion of any differences that appear to exist rather than to provoke challenges or denials from
others’’ (Wardaugh, 1985, p. 183). As Australian English speakers, we equate being opinionated
with an intolerance for differing opinions, and an unwillingness to listen. Two of my participants
commented on this (my emphasis):
(2) Fiona: . . . . . there’ll be lots of people you read their opinions (.) when they write to The
Age or to the Herald Sun {Australian newspapers}(.) whoever they write to (.)
editors and they say ‘‘(.) this is my opinion and this is the way it is’’ and you sort
of think ‘‘mm is that (.)’’ it’s sort of they say it as if it’s fact (0.3) erm yeah like
very opinionated erm (.) either that or they don’t really think it’s their business
(.) and I think both of those two extremes are really quite unhealthy. . . . .
(3) Kerry: it {being opinionated} has a negative connotation for
you?
Mark: w- well it does because (1.5) um, you’re never go- really going to learn anything
new if you’re like that. (1.5) like (0.3) you’ve already decided on everything.
Indeed, it is highly signiﬁcant that the term opinionated, usually used pejoratively in English to
refer to someone who has a tendency to always express strong opinions, has no equivalent in
French.
The four comment clauses were originally chosen for investigation on the basis of their
prevalence in the data. I think was selected initially, and the French comment clauses were
subsequently selected as ‘equivalents’. The French and Australian English NS use of these
expressions was as shown in Table 9.6.
Saying what you think 201
From this it can be seen that I think is used almost twice as often in the Australian English data
than the three French comment clauses combined. This supports what we have said about the
importance of mitigating opinions in English.
5. CORE MEANINGS OF THE COMMENT CLAUSES
It has been suggested that discourse markers lack semantic content and do not contribute to
‘‘the substance of what the discourse ends up having said’’ (Schegloff, 1981, p. 74). This is
relevant to the instances in my data where a comment clause primarily performs an organisational
role in discourse (see below). I take the view of Wierzbicka (1986a, p. 597) however, who
assumes that all words have meaning, and that the meaning of a word determines its range of use.
(Indeed, if a word has no semantic content, it is difﬁcult to see how it has a use at all.) As
Stenström (1995) states in her study on comment clauses: ‘‘the pragmatic function of I think [ . . . ]
in spoken interaction is inﬂuenced, ﬁrst, by the inherent semantic content of the verb [ . . . ]’’
(p. 294, my emphasis). It is this inherent semantic content I am referring to when I use the term
core meaning.
Having argued that the core meaning of a word or an expression is always present however,
I acknowledge that the core meaning is at times more or less disregarded in favour of the
word/expression’s function as a discourse marker. As Schourup (1985) says, ‘‘the more an
expression is used routinely, the more it is apt to lose contact with its literal meaning’’ (p. 7).
In the cases of I think, je pense, je crois and je trouve, loss of core meaning is supported by
the reduced phonology where the expression appears as a discourse organiser (cf. following
section), indicating that the focus is not on the expression itself, but on the following
discourse.
This is not to suggest that the discourse marker loses any of its meaning, simply that the
speaker is less conscious of it. Indeed, the fact that there are three expressions in French which
Table 9.6. Distributions of comment clauses by French and Australian English NS
Tokens Per 1,000 words
I think 281 8.8
je pense 133 3.2
je crois 36 0.9
je trouve 59 1.4
202 Kerry Mullan
equate to I think is evidence that discourse markers are not semantically empty, and illustrates the
fact that these comment clauses are non-isomorphic (although naturally with some overlap), both
within French, and across the two languages. The fact that speakers choose one of these
expressions over the other two at any one time is highly signiﬁcant, since each expression must
have an individual meaning more suited to the context at the time.6
It is important to mention here that the following core meanings proposed for the four comment
clauses under investigation are in relation to each other only; i.e. one could argue that the
proposed core meaning for I think could – without further analysis – also apply to other similar
epistemic expressions such as I guess, I suspect, I reckon, etc. Since the purpose of this analysis is
not to show how I think differs semantically from other epistemic expressions in English, but
to show how it differs from the three expressions considered the closest equivalents in French,
the reader should consider the core meanings proposed here as a subset in opposition to each
other only.7
I think
In using I think the speaker wishes to positively assert or claim a particular viewpoint towards a
proposition while disclaiming knowledge of it. The speaker thereby uses this expression as a
hedge to distinguish facts from opinions, which is culturally important for Australian English
speakers.
je pense
This element of distinguishing facts from opinions is absent from the core meaning of je pense,
which I propose is expressing an opinion based on reﬂection, where the speaker wishes to
positively assert or claim a particular stance towards a proposition. The verb penser (‘to think’) is
connected to cogitation and reﬂection, and suggests a viewpoint based on facts, known or
inferred events. The core meaning of je pense therefore comprises an intellectual process,
intellectualism in turn being very important for French speakers.
je crois
I propose that the core meaning of je crois is that of expressing a belief – or conviction, and
I distinguish this from expressing an opinion as being something more fundamental to,
6
This can be seen in Table 9.9 where details of the occurrences of these expressions per French NS are
presented. Although the basic patterning is very similar, there is still some individual variation across
speakers, which is to be expected. This does not mean that speakers show a personal preference for one
term over another in the same way as one might show a preference for certain lexical items over others,
but that the viewpoints expressed will at times be based on reﬂection, on belief or on experience; these
are the factors which will determine how the viewpoint is expressed.
7
The justiﬁcation and explanation for the core meanings proposed here are presented in full in Mullan
(2010).
Saying what you think 203
and strongly held by, the speaker. A belief is often based on personal values, usually acquired
through education and acculturation.
je trouve
The core meaning of je trouve is proposed as expressing an opinion discovered through personal
experience, whether by explicit or inferred discovery.8
(Since je trouve limits the validity of the
opinion to one’s own individual experience, it cannot be used to express doubt in the same way as
je pense and je crois; cf. functions below.)
These core meanings are summarised in Table 9.7.
While it will be seen in the following section that je pense and je crois can be used to indicate
uncertainty in discourse, the core meanings proposed for je pense, je crois (and je trouve) do not
include disclaiming knowledge of the facts, as in the case of I think. This is supported by the fact
that these verbs of opinion – or verbes de pensée (literally ‘verbs of thought’) as they are known:
penser, croire and trouver – all require a subjunctive construction when expressed in the negative,
as an overt marker of doubt.
Brieﬂy, the subjunctive mood is usually required when expressing subjectivity in French; the
subjunctive appears in the subordinate clause following a verb implying necessity, desire, emotion
and doubt (as well as certain other constructions). For example:
Il est possible qu’il dorme (subjunctive).
It is possible that he is sleeping.
The fact that penser, croire and trouver do not require the subjunctive in the afﬁrmative is
evidence that they do not imply doubt to the same degree as I think.
8
See Mullan (2010) for a detailed discussion of (non-grammatical) evidentiality in French, as illustrated
through the comment clause je trouve.
Table 9.7. Core meanings of I think, je pense, je crois and je trouve
Comment
clause
Core meaning
I think disclaims knowledge of the upcoming proposition
je pense positively asserts a particular stance towards a proposition based on
reﬂection
je crois expresses a belief or conviction
je trouve expresses an opinion discovered through personal experience
204 Kerry Mullan
6. FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMENT CLAUSES IN THE NS DATA
The comment clauses were all found to be multifunctional, and the following functions
identiﬁed, as part of the larger study on native speaker discourse (Mullan, 2007, 2010). The
functions were found to apply to both the French and Australian English data. These functions in
discourse are speciﬁcally (a) organisational, (b) semantic and (c) pragmatic (cf. also Mullan &
Karlsson, this volume).9
(a) The organisational functions are used as ‘‘road signs in conversational exchanges’’
(Wierzbicka, 1986b, p. 524), consisting speciﬁcally of
– marking a boundary in discourse, e.g. to initiate a topic, frame a side sequence or to
sum up in discourse
– marking a new or different perspective from the prior turn (or speaker)
– indicating online planning
– marking ﬁnality to a proposition (IU-ﬁnal position)
– signalling turn completion and pursuing speaker response (turn-ﬁnal position)
(b) The semantics of the four comment clauses therefore involve
– expression of opinion
– expression of doubt
There will of course be instances where the speaker appears to be expressing both an opinion
and some doubt, as in the following example.
(4) Kerry: and is it {the expression to sit on the fence}
negatively valued– evaluated, [in Australian]
Heather: [mm. can be.]
Kerry: culture?
Heather: can be. (.) can be I think. maybe. because, (.) well not strongly.
Here Heather is expressing her opinion on whether the expression to sit on the fence is viewed
negatively or not, but there is also an indication that she is not sure of the validity or truth of the
proposition. This can be seen through the use of the other hedges such as can be, maybe and the
qualiﬁer well not strongly.
9
These terms correspond roughly to the three components of Redeker’s (1991) model of discourse
coherence: textual (sequential level), semantic (locutionary level) and pragmatic (illocutionary level).
This is also similar to Halliday’s (1994, 2004) systemic functional linguistic terms: textual (organising
information), ideational (expressing propositional content) and interpersonal (expressing speaker
involvement or attitude).
Saying what you think 205
(c) The comment clauses under investigation may also have a pragmatic (face-saving)
function: this can be achieved by indicating doubt or an opinion, in order to save the
face – of either the speaker or the interlocutor or both – depending on the situation.
It should be pointed out here that being multifunctional, the comment clauses may all perform
more than one of the above functions at any one time. For this reason I refer to the primary or
dominant function of the comment clauses in some cases. Where the expression is performing as
an organisational discourse marker, the prosody and context may also indicate an expression of
speaker opinion or doubt, which in turn may be intended as a face-saving device. However, a
careful analysis will reveal the dominant function in most cases. As Redeker (1991) says, ‘‘one
[component] will usually dominate and suggest itself as the most relevant linkage of this utterance
to its context’’ (p. 1168).
Figure 9.1 illustrates the preceding discussion by representing the overarching semantic
invariant of all four expressions as speaker stance, the core meaning of each individual expression,
and the functions of each expression in discourse: organisational, semantic and pragmatic. Where
the function of the expression is primarily semantic, this can be to express an opinion or doubt (or a
combination of both), except in the case of je trouve which cannot imply doubt.
Prosody and IU-position (and the corresponding IU-contour) were the consistent primary
factors involved in determining the exact functions of the comment clauses in interaction,
although the context was also important.
The prosody of the comment clauses as organisational discourse markers has been shown to
involve acceleration and phonological reduction (Kärkkäinen, 2003; Mullan, 2010). This is
because the focus is not on the personalisation of the comment clause itself, but on what follows.
So the prosody of I think as an organisational discourse marker will typically be pronounced as
Speaker stance
I think
(NOT fact)
Je pense
(reflection)
Je crois
(belief)
Je trouve
(experience)
organisat
ional
semantic
pragm
atic
opinion doubt
organisat
ional
semantic
pragm
atic
opinion doubt
Semantic
invariant
Core
meaning
Function in
discourse
organisat
ional
semantic
pragm
atic
belief doubt
semantic
organisat
ional
pragm
atic
opinion
Figure 9.1. Core meanings and functions of I think, je pense, je crois and je trouve.
206 Kerry Mullan
something like [ahIF], where the subject pronoun I is almost inaudible. The corresponding
acceleration of the French comment clauses results in je pense, je crois and je trouve reducing to
[Zpãs], [ZkRwa] and [ZtRuv] respectively, although the consonants in the French comment clauses
do not undergo such a radical alteration as those in the English I think, where the th and k
essentially disappear. (This is evidence that the French comment clauses have not grammaticised
into discourse markers to the same extent as I think, since the phonological reduction is not as
advanced; cf. discussion on grammaticisation Mullan & Karlsson, this volume).
Table 9.8. Functions of I think, je pense, je crois and je trouve in the NS data
Functions I think je pense je crois je trouve
Organisational:
 to mark a boundary in
discourse
129 (45.9%) 17 (12.8%) 18 (50%) 6 (10.2%)
 to sum up in discourse 16 (5.7%) 13 (9.8%) 2 (5.6%) 6 (10.2%)
 to mark a new or different
perspective from the prior
turn
17 (6%) 5 (3.8%) 2 (5.6%)
 in online planning 14 (5%) 20 (15%) 3 (8.3%) 8 (13.6%)
 to mark ﬁnality (IU-ﬁnal) 5 (1.8%) 11 (8.3%) 2 (5.6%) 2 (3.4%)
 to signal turn completion
(turn-ﬁnal)
3 (1.1%) 5 (3.8%) 2 (3.4%)
Subtotal 184 (65.5%) 71 (53.4%) 27 (75%) 24 (40.7%)
Primarily semantic:
 to express doubt 11 (3.9%) 3 (2.2%) 3 (8.2%)
 to express speaker
opinion
85 (30.2%) 59 (44.5%) 6 (16.5%) 35 (59.3%)
Subtotal 96 (34.1%) 62 (46.6%) 9 (25%) 35 (59.3%)
Primarily pragmatic:
 tosave face (ofthe speaker,
the addressee or both)
1 (0.4%)
Subtotal 1 (0.4%)
Total 281 (100%) 133 (100%) 36 (100%) 59 (100%)
Saying what you think 207
Where the comment clause displays level stress and no reduction however, this typically
indicates that the expression of opinion is the primary function. Where there is a fall-rise intonation,
the primary function of the comment clause is to indicate some doubt as to the veracity of the
proposition.
The prosodic features described above are applicable to both English and French, and therefore
allowed for a comparable analysis of the NS and NNS data. The frequencies of the functions in
the NS data are detailed in Table 9.8.
Since the functions of the four comment clauses were found to be similar in both French
and Australian English, we can hypothesise that the NNS will use the comment clauses for
the same functions in their L2 as their L1. This was indeed found to be the case, although
there were some important differences in the frequencies of these functions. As might be
expected, there were also signiﬁcant differences between NS and NNS usage in the total
number of occurrences of these comment clauses, and in the prosody of the comment
clauses themselves. These will be discussed in the following sections, and examples from
the data provided.
7. FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMENT CLAUSES IN THE NNS DATA
All functions of the four comment clauses identiﬁed in the NS data were found to occur in the
NNS data, with the exception of the pragmatic face-saving function. Since this occurred only once
as the primary function in the NS data, this cannot be considered a signiﬁcant difference.
Examples of all of the functions follow.
The ﬁrst example illustrates the use of I think to mark a boundary in discourse, in particular to
introduce a new topic. Daniel and Beth have been talking about racism, and Daniel is referring to
the far right political party in France, Le Front National.
(5) Daniel: and I thi- it’s funny, ‘cause in France this – this national, er political party, erm
got a lot of success, but mainly with peoples coming from countryside, they
never seen an African or whatever, they are just living in their small farm, I
don’t know, they’re not thinking.
Kerry: mm.
Daniel: it’s just very scary.
Beth: yeah.
Kerry: mm.
Daniel: and after, something I- I think er, young people, when er young kids arrive, 10
in Australia, come in 10 years old, coming from another country, I think it’s
???? they still able to learn the language and mix with other [people,]
208 Kerry Mullan
Beth: [mm.]
Daniel: I don’t know, (0.3) when you’re older it’s not so easy,
Beth: no.
Daniel: but ??? and after, I think when you – you’re far away from your country, if you
hasn’t – if you haven’t really choose to immigrate, or if you have no choice
because of situation economical . . . ..
His use of and after, something I- I think er, young people clearly introduces a new topic. This idea
of young children arriving in Australia is not related to the previous topic of the political party. This
can also be seen in Daniel’s falling intonation contour after they’re not thinking and again following
it’s just very scary. When there is no speaker uptake from anyone else, he perhaps feels obliged to
continue speaking and ﬁnds something new to talk about. His two instances of and after, immedi-
ately prior to his uses of I think, also indicate that these are new topics, as this is a transference from
French, where the expression et après (‘and after’) can be used to move on to a new topic.
Example (6) illustrates the use of a comment clause to sum up in discourse. I have asked the
participants whether they feel there is any racism in Australia. Darren takes the ﬁrst turn and
speaks for ﬁve whole minutes on this topic, with minimal feedback from his interlocutor. He ends
his monologue with:
(6) Darren: et Wj’crois queo c’est un – ouais, c’est un grand problème en Australie, on
sait pas comment euh, (0.3) comment surmonter ce déﬁ.
Darren: and Wj’crois queo it’s a – yeah, it’s a big problem in Australia, we don’t
know how er, (0.3) how to overcome this challenge.
This reduced and accelerated instance of je crois is used to summarise Darren’s contribution to the
topic. He repeats it’s a – yeah, it’s a (big problem), this repetition being another indicator of
summing up.
The next example is the use of I think to mark a difference from the prior turn. The participants
have been talking about stereotypes.
(7) Len: I– I think that’s – that’s starting to become a pretty common thought about
like, (.) um, especially, I mean it’s always – and people always sort of put, um
Asians and stuff, into this little bracket that’s ¼
Suzanne: ¼ yeah
Len: you know, that you know, want to be successful and
Suzanne: [yeah]
Len: [and] take us, take over Australia,
Suzanne: @@
Saying what you think 209
Len: and er – and soon you know, they’ll come here in boats from Indonesia and
hooligans um – you know, it’s pretty scary.
Suzanne: well I think it’s international, like we’ve got a lot of Asian migrants in France
as well and this – they’ve got this stereotype to be hard workers
Len: [mm]
Suzanne: [as well] over there.
Len begins by saying that certain stereotypes are becoming common, and then uses irony when he
refers to people taking over Australia; he himself does not think this way, but is mocking people
who do. This is clear from Len’s intonation, and Suzanne understands that this is what he is doing
and responds to his use of humour with laughter. When Len has ﬁnished speaking, Suzanne says
well, I think it’s international. This use of I think is to mark a difference from the prior turn. Len
has intimated that this situation is pertinent to Australia, but Suzanne wishes to point out that they
have a similar situation with such stereotypes in France. It has been noted that dispreferred
responses in English are typically prefaced with hedges such as ah, well, pauses, hesitations, etc.
(Pomerantz, 1984, p. 72, 77), and this is illustrated here with Suzanne’s use of well.
In the following example, we see an instance of je pense used in online planning. Jane and
Christine have been talking about Jane’s experience as an exchange student in France when she
was at secondary school, so this topic change seems somewhat out of place. It is possible that
Jane is thinking about an earlier topic and trying to link her comments back to this. From the
pauses and hesitation markers, restarts and truncated intonation units, it is clear that she is
having trouble formulating her thoughts. This is supported by her utterance of what was I going
to say?
(8) Jane: et quoi encore – je pense que j’suis (1.0) je pense que j’ai des idées un peu um,
(1.0) um, (2.0) (Hx), (1.0) c’est pa::::s, (0.3) je suis pas neutre parce que je – je
fais des études sur le – le franc
-ais,
Kerry: mm.
Jane: et (.) sur le tu et le vous? (0.3) et um, moi je – j’pense que – qu’est-ce que
j’allais dire? (0.4) j’pense que les (0.3) les Franc
-ais, (1.0) c’est ce que j’ai
remarqué avec le – l’usage des pronoms . . . ..
Jane: and what else – je pense que I’m (1.0) je pense que I’ve got ideas a bit um, (1.0)
um, (2.0) (Hx), (1.0) it’s no::::t, (0.3) I’m not neutral because I – I’m doing a
study on – French,
Kerry: mm.
Jane: and (.) on tu and vous? (0.3) and um, moi je – j’pense que – what was I going to
say? (0.4) j’pense que the (0.3) the French, (1.0) what I’ve noticed with the –
the use of pronouns . . . ..
210 Kerry Mullan
The following extract between Jane and Christine contains an example of je crois used to mark
ﬁnality. We have been discussing cultural differences, and Jane has said that one needs to harden
up when in France to cope with what could be construed as insensitive behaviour.
(9) Kerry: et tu arrives à être plus dure en franc
-ais? (0.4) moi oui, moi j’ai toujours
trouvé plus facile, c’est – parce que – c’est comme si c’est pas moi qui parle,
(0.3) je – je peux – je (.) [ouais.]
Jane: [ouais,] j’ai l’impression de jouer un rôle (.) [quand]
Kerry: [mm.]
Jane: je parle franc
-ais (0.3) [ouais.]
Kerry: [ouais.]
Jane: je suis différente j’crois.
Kerry: ah ouais, (0.3) et toi tu es différente en anglais?
[tu trouves]?
Christine: [ouais]
Kerry: and do you manage to be harder in French? (0.4) I do, I’ve always found
it easier, it’s – because – it’s like it’s not me who’s speaking, (0.3) I – I can –
I (.) [yeah.]
Jane: [yeah,] I get the impression I’m playing a part (.)
[when]
Kerry: [mm.]
Jane: I speak French (0.3) [yeah.]
Kerry: [yeah.]
Jane: I’m different j’crois.
Kerry: oh yeah (0.3) and are you different in English?
[do you think]?
Christine: [yeah]
In answer to my question, Jane agrees that she feels like she is playing a part when she speaks
French, and sums up with je suis différente je crois. Her j’crois: je suis différente j’crois is slightly
reduced, thereby indicating its function as an organisational discourse marker, and her falling
intonation afterwards indicates ﬁnality. I understand this as a marker of ﬁnality and put the
question to Jane’s interlocutor now instead.
Example (10) illustrates an instance of I think used to mark ﬁnality and signal turn completion.
Daniel has been talking about the situation in the French Basque country.
(10) Daniel: but in France they never had Franco, so they are very very hard – harder in
Spain because of that, I think,
Kerry: right.
Saying what you think 211
Daniel: more than in France, and er they – and in another way, they didn’t wanted to
have people ﬁghting in France, because all people who used to ﬁght in Spain,
if they get in trouble, could go in France, you know, it’s like on the war, it’s–
you got the ﬁrst line, but after you can come back and have a rest, that’s why,
I think.
Beth: mm. that’s interesting, yeah, I hadn’t ever thought about the . . . ..
Daniel’s ﬁrst instance of I think shows that he has not ﬁnished speaking (cf. the continuing
intonation contour); his level intonation shows that he is expressing an opinion. However, his
second instance of I think is followed by a falling intonation contour which clearly marks ﬁnality to
his turn, as well as signalling turn completion. This is understood by Beth, who then takes the ﬂoor.
Example (11) illustrates the use of I think to indicate some doubt as to the veracity of a
proposition. I have asked Marie, a native French speaker, what the expression donner une réponse
de Normand (‘to give a Norman’s response’, i.e. maybe, maybe not) means. Marie ﬁrstly replies
that she does not know, but then goes on to guess.
(11) Kerry: ok so you – do you know, Marie, the expression ‘‘donner une réponse de
Normand’’?
Marie: er no, but I think it might be like er, a story that ends like a ﬁsh –tail? End ﬁsh
that means, no? well,
Kerry: dunno.
Marie: ok well, [you don’t know this,]
Kerry: [I don’t know.
Marie: ﬁnir en queue de poisson.
Kerry: I don’t know that expression.]
Marie: [that means it doesn’t ﬁnish,] there’s no sense in the end of the story.
Marie attempts a guess at the meaning of the expression, but it is clear from her answer that she is
not sure. In addition, her utterance of I think shows a fall-rise intonation, also indicating some
uncertainty.
The ﬁnal example illustrates three instances of je trouve marking speaker opinion. In this
example Jane is talking about what she ﬁnds sexist in French culture.
(12) Jane: une – une autre différence que je trouve très marquée entre les deux –
cultures, (0.5) c’est le, (1.0) le sexisme, (.) ou ce que je trouve sexiste
[dans (.) dans la]
Christine: [mm mm.]
212 Kerry Mullan
Jane: culture franc
-aise, moi je trouve que les femmes, (1.5) elles, (0.3) par
exemple si tu es dans le métro (.) à Paris, tu peux – tu peux pas regarder un
homme, (.) c’est comme une invitation.
Jane: an – another difference that je trouve very marked between the two –
cultures, (0.5) is the, (1.0) the sexism, (.) or what je trouve sexist [in ..in]
French
Christine: [mm mm.]
Jane: culture, moi je trouve que women, (1.5) they, (0.3) for example if you are
in the metro (.) in Paris, you can’t – you can’t look at a man home, (.) it’s
like an invitation.
Jane uses je trouve three times to mark speaker opinion. Her intonation is level and unreduced,
and the addition of moi in front of the third instance is another indicator of speaker opinion. This
use of moi in front of the subject pronoun je is extremely common in French conversation. It has
the effect of emphasising the subject pronoun, thereby asserting the speaker’s position, and
corresponds to something like ‘this is what I think’, which is used much less often in English. The
surrounding context also indicates the expression of opinion here, as Jane goes on to talk at some
length about what she sees as sexism in France; this is a topic she feels quite strongly about. The
sense of personal experience is clear in these instances of je trouve too, where Jane is clearly
relating experiences she had when living in France.
As stated, the above functions were all found to occur in the NS and NNS discourse.
Several signiﬁcant differences were found in the frequency of the functions however, as shown in
Table 9.9.
The main differences between Tables 9.8 and 9.9 are summarised in Table 9.10. From this, it
can be seen that the NNS used je pense and je crois as organisational discourse markers more
often than the native French speakers (particularly to mark a boundary in discourse); this could be
due to the transference of the extensive use of I think as an organisational discourse marker in
Australian English. There is a signiﬁcant difference in the use of je trouve as organisational
however: whereas the native French speakers in my data used je trouve as an organisational
discourse marker almost half of the time, it seems that the NNS considered je trouve to be
predominantly a marker of speaker opinion. This could be due to the fact that the NNS know that
je trouve cannot express any doubt, and for this reason, they perhaps consider this comment clause
as less like I think in Australian English, and therefore less able to perform as an organisational
discourse marker.
On the other hand, the NNS used I think somewhat less often as an organisational discourse
marker than the native Australian English speakers; again, this could be due to a transference from
their L1, where two of the three French comment clauses (je pense and je trouve) are not used as
organisational discourse markers as often as I think in English.
Saying what you think 213
Table 9.10 also illustrates the differences in the NS and NNS use of the comment clauses to
express an opinion. The NNS used je pense and je crois rather less often than the native French
speakers to express an opinion; this is of course a consequence of the NNS using these expressions
as organisational discourse markers more often than the native speakers. Again, the greatest
difference comes in the use of je trouve, which the NNS used overwhelmingly to express an
opinion – much more so than the native speakers, who also frequently use je pense to express an
opinion.
Table 9.9. Functions of I think, je pense, je crois and je trouve in the NNS data
Functions I think je pense je crois je trouve
Organisational:
 to mark a boundary in discourse 22 (35%) 22 (73%) 14 (52%) 1 (8%)
 to sum up in discourse 3 (5) 2 (6.6%) 4 (15%)
 to mark a new or different
perspective from the prior turn
4 (6%) 1 (3.3%) 3 (11%)
 in online planning 3 (5%) 1 (3.3%)
 to mark ﬁnality (IU-ﬁnal) 1 (1.6%) 2 (7.4%)
 to signal turn completion (turn-
ﬁnal)
1 (1.6%)
Subtotal 34 (54%) 26 (87%) 23 (85%) 1 (8%)
Primarily semantic:
 to express doubt 2 (3%) 1 (3.7%)
 to express speaker opinion 27 (43%) 4 (13.3%) 3 (11.1%) 11 (92%)
Subtotal 26 (46%) 4 (13%) 4 (15%) 11 (92%)
Primarily pragmatic:
 to save face (of the speaker, the
addressee or both)
Subtotal
Total 63 (100%) 30 (100%) 27 (100%) 12 (100%)
214 Kerry Mullan
Table 9.10. Functions of I think, je pense, je crois and je trouve in the NS and NNS data
Functions I think je pense je crois je trouve
NS NNS NS NNS NS NNS NS NNS
Organisational 184 (66%) 34 (54%) 71 (53%) 26 (87%) 27 (75%) 23 (85%) 24 (41%) 1 (8%)
Primarily semantic 96 (33.6%) 29 (46%) 62 (47%) 4 (13%) 9 (25%) 4 (15%) 35 (59%) 11 (92%)
Primarily pragmatic 1 (0.4%)
Total 281 63 133 30 36 27 59 12
Saying
what
you
think
215
It is also telling that the NNS used I think to express an opinion signiﬁcantly more often than
the native Australian English speakers; this is clearly a transference from their L1 (especially their
use of je pense as NS to express an opinion, which shows an almost identical frequency to their
NNS use of I think for the same purpose).
It is difﬁcult to draw any ﬁrm conclusions as to whether the increased or decreased NNS
use of these comment clauses (as compared to NS use) for a particular function has any effect
on the NS interlocutor. Since we cannot know for sure how aware a native speaker is of these
functions in their L1 discourse, without further investigation it is impossible to determine
whether a native speaker has any awareness of such differences in their non-native
interlocutor’s L2 discourse. A native speaker is more likely to be affected by the overall
frequency of use and the prosody of the comment clauses, both of which will be discussed in
the following sections.
8. OCCURRENCES OF THE COMMENT CLAUSES
The breakdown of the occurrences of the comment clauses by individual NS and NNS is
detailed in Tables 9.11–9.14. Table 9.11 details the occurrences of the English expressions by
Australian English NS. I have included the expressions I believe and I ﬁnd by way of comparison
with the French expressions je crois and je trouve respectively (which can be translated as I
believe and I ﬁnd on occasion).
Table 9.11 shows that the native speakers used I think on average 8.8 times per 1,000 words, I
believe 0.05 times and I ﬁnd 0.2 times. It is clear that the latter two expressions did not occur
frequently in my data (and the highest use of one of these – I ﬁnd – was in fact by a French NS; cf.
Table 9.12). I have also included the expressions I reckon and I guess as an interesting comparison
with I think. These two expressions also show a low frequency, with I guess appearing more
frequently than I reckon. (This is particularly interesting since the expression I guess is often
considered more typical of American English,10
and I reckon as being a typically Australian
English expression.)
Although belief and personal experience are of course both extremely familiar concepts to
Australian English speakers, it is culturally highly signiﬁcant that we rarely employ the
expressions I believe and I ﬁnd to express our opinions (only two and seven instances respectively
occurred in my NS data), but we are instead far more likely to choose the more neutral – less
binding – expression which distinguishes fact from opinion: I think – even where personal
experience is involved.
10
Cf. Kärkkäinen (2007) on I guess in conversational stance taking.
216 Kerry Mullan
Table 9.11. Occurrences of I think, I believe and I ﬁnd by Australian English NS; normalised (1,000 words) and raw frequencies
Lisa Fiona Heather Beth Ken Natalie Kylie Mark Len Total
I think 2.6 (51) 7.5 (31) 13.5 (30) 12.4 (31) 6.2 (24) 8.7 (30) 8.8 (37) 2.6 (6) 7.9 (41) 8.8 (281)
I believe 0 0 0.5 (1) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.5 (1)
I ﬁnd 0.5 (2) 0.2 (1) 0 0.8 (2) 0.3 (1) 0 0 0 0.2 (1) 0.2 (1)
I reckon 0 0.5 (2) 0 0 0 0 0.2 (1) 0.9 (2) 0.8 (4) 0.3 (9)
I guess 0.7 (3) 0 0 1.2 (3) 0.3 (1) 2.6 (9) 0.7 (3) 0.9 (2) 1.2 (6) 0.8 (27)
Saying
what
you
think
217
By way of comparison, Table 9.12 illustrates the use of the same expressions by French NNS
of English.
The NNS all used I think to varying degrees, with Daniel showing the highest usage and
Suzanne showing a very low usage of this expression. Daniels’ use of 9.6 tokens of I think per
1,000 words is quite similar to (or higher than) most of the Australian English NS. While Marie’s
usage of I think is lower, it is also similar to one NS’s usage (and higher than another; cf. Table
9.11). Daniel is also the only speaker to use I ﬁnd; his usage of this expression may well be a
direct transference from French. As could be expected, the native French speakers also showed a
low usage of I guess, and there were no tokens of I reckon.
Table 9.13 illustrates the occurrences of je pense, je crois and je trouve by individual
French NS.
Je pense is the most frequent expression of the three, and occurs three-and-a-half times
more often than je crois. There is some variety in usage of the three expressions across the
native French speakers. It must be remembered that these individual differences do not mean that
some speakers prefer one term to another, but that the viewpoints expressed will be based on
reﬂection, belief or experience; this is what will determine which expression is the most
appropriate at the time.
By way of comparison, Table 9.14 illustrates the use of je pense, je crois and je trouve by
Australian NNS of English.
It can be seen that only Jane (an Australian recently returned from 10 months’ study in France)
follows the pattern established by the native French speakers, i.e. where je pense is favoured and
occurs much more often than je crois. She is also the only speaker to use je trouve to any extent. In
a striking contrast, the other non-native speakers do not use je pense at all; Darren relies instead
on je crois, and Karen hardly uses either expression at all. Both Jane and Darren use je crois more
than any native French speaker.
Table 9.12. Occurrences of I think, I believe and I ﬁnd by NNS; normalised (1,000 words) and
raw frequencies
Marie Suzanne Daniel Total
I think 6.7 (21) 1.3 (4) 9.6 (38) 6.3 (63)
I believe 0.3 (1) 0 0 0.1 (1)
I ﬁnd 0 0 2 (7) 0.7 (7)
I reckon 0 0 0 0
I guess 1 (3) 1 (3) 0 6 (6)
218 Kerry Mullan
Table 9.13. Occurrences of je pense, je crois and je trouve by French NS; normalised (1,000 words) and raw frequencies
Luc Vincent Céline Bernadette Irène Guillaume Louis Carine Christine Total
je pense 3.4 (13) 3.6 (18) 1.8 (7) 2.9 (18) 3.1 (19) 4.2 (20) 4.3 (15) 2.2 (9) 4 (14) 3.2 (133)
je crois 1 (4) 0.8 (4) 0.5 (2) 1.5 (9) 0.5 (3) 0.4 (2) 0.6 (2) 1.9 (8) 0.6 (2) 0.9 (36)
je trouve 0.3 (1) 0.2 (1) 1.3 (5) 1 (6) 3.2 (20) 2.1 (10) 1.4 (5) 0.5 (2) 2.5 (9) 1.4 (59)
Saying
what
you
think
219
There are two possible reasons for this patterning. Firstly, Darren’s (and Jane’s) use of je crois
as more of a discourse marker could be a transfer from Australian English; perhaps they consider
je crois the closest equivalent of I think in that it can often express uncertainty, and perhaps they
see this as being the closest to the core meaning of I think, where we are disclaiming knowledge of
our proposition. Secondly, Jane’s level of ﬂuency in French was somewhat higher than the other
French NNS, and it is possible that her use of these expressions had been inﬂuenced by her recent
stay in France.
We can conclude from the above frequencies that, in the case of the NNS, the lower frequency
of the use of I think may well give the wrong impression to Australian English NS. As
Australians, we would expect to hear I think relatively frequently in interaction, not only to
organise the discourse itself, but also to assure us that our interlocutor is not imposing their
opinion on us, nor are they presenting it to us as fact. A low usage of this comment clause might
contribute to the impression that our interlocutor is ‘opinionated’, as their opinions will seem to be
expressed more forcefully. Accordingly, the ‘overuse’ of I ﬁnd, which seems more personal and
more binding in English, will contribute to this same impression.
On the other hand, the seeming overuse of the expression je crois by NNS may give an
impression of being ‘wishy-washy’ or not being committed to one’s opinion to a French NS. The
NNS’ low (or non-) usage of je pense could be taken in two ways: either it would pass unnoticed
if the NNS expressed their opinions anyway (this would simply be seen as a non-hedged
expression of opinion, which would not be considered a problem for a French NS); or it could
give a French NS the impression that their interlocutor’s opinions had not been reﬂected on, since
this process of reﬂection is part of the core meaning of je pense, and valued by French NS.
9. PROSODY OF THE COMMENT CLAUSES
As stated, the prosody of the comment clauses was found to be central to the analysis of the
comment clauses, both in the NS and the NNS data. The intonation contour and IU-position were
Table 9.14. Occurrences of je pense, je crois and je trouve by NNS; normalised (1,000 words)
and raw frequencies
Karen Darren Jane Total
je pense 0 0 10.9 (30) 3.1 (30)
je crois 1.2 (3) 3.4 (15) 3.3 (9) 2.8 (27)
je trouve 1.2 0.45 (2) 2.55 (7) 1.2 (12)
220 Kerry Mullan
the main factors involved in determining the exact functions of the comment clauses, although
context was equally important at times.
The prosody of these comment clauses as organisational discourse markers typically involves
acceleration and phonological reduction. Where the comment clause displays level intonation and
no reduction, this usually indicates that the comment clause is being used to express an opinion.
Doubt is usually indicated by a fall-rise intonation.
The prosodic features described above are applicable to both English and French, and therefore
allowed for a comparable analysis of the NS and NNS data. The analysis of the NNS shows that
proﬁciency levels are linked to intonation and prosody. Those NNS who had spent some time on
exchange at university in France (Darren and Jane) had acquired more native-like intonation in
their L2, and the prosody of their organisational comment clauses was often reduced and
accelerated, like that of an NS. Interestingly, however, Darren’s use of je trouve was usually
unreduced, indicating an expression of opinion with this comment clause, rather than any
organisational function. Karen’s (few) comment clauses were all uttered with level intonation,
without reduction or acceleration, thereby giving the impression of using these comment clauses
to always express an opinion or a belief. This is unlikely to have had any adverse effect in her L2
however, as French native speakers are used to their interlocutor expressing an opinion.
The NNS of English displayed similar tendencies in regards to proﬁciency and native-like
prosody. Suzanne, who was on exchange at an Australian university, showed more native-like
intonation in her comment clauses (albeit only four). She displayed reduction and acceleration, as
well as a clear expression of doubt with one utterance of I think. Daniel and Marie, however,
tended to apply a level and full intonation to their instances of I think, with Daniel often putting an
extra emphasis on the subject pronoun. A direct transference from French, this could have the
effect of making the French native speakers sound rather ‘opinionated’ in English and intent on
imposing their opinions on their interlocutor.
10. CONCLUSION
The aim of this chapter was to illustrate the non-isomorphic nature of the four comment
clauses I think, je pense, je crois and je trouve, both semantically and interactionally. It was
proposed that these semantic and interactional nuances may not always be evident to non-native
French and Australian English speakers in their second language, and to discuss what effect this
might have in interaction when they use these expressions of subjectivity in their L2 with native
speakers.
It was argued that the underlying inherent semantic content of each comment clause is distinct,
and core meanings for the four comment clauses were proposed. It was argued that disclaiming
knowledge of the upcoming proposition was integral to the meaning of I think in Australian
Saying what you think 221
English, but that this need to distinguish fact from opinion is not part of the core meaning of any
of the three French comment clauses. It was proposed that these core meanings are not necessarily
evident to non-native (or indeed native) speakers in interaction, and that transferring the
expression from one’s L1 can have different implications in the L2, possibly leaving one’s native
L1 interlocutor with a negative impression of the other – for example, the French speakers might
appear ‘arrogant’ or ‘opinionated’, and the Australian English speakers ‘wishy-washy’ or without
considered opinions.
We also set out to answer four questions, the ﬁrst of which is as follows:
(a) How does the frequency of the comment clauses in the (French and English) NNS
discourse compare with the frequency in the NS discourse?
It was shown that I think is overwhelming prevalent in NS discourse, and that on the contrary,
the glosses for je crois and je trouve (I believe and I ﬁnd) were extremely rare. The NN all used
I think to varying degrees, with two out of three showing similar patterning to the majority of
the NS; the third speaker used very few tokens of I think. One NNS used I ﬁnd much more often
than the NS.
It was found that for the French NS, je pense was the most frequent expression of the three, and
occurred three-and-a-half times more often than je crois, followed by je trouve. Only one NNS
followed the pattern established by the NS; the other NNS did not use je pense at all. One NNS
used je crois very frequently, and two of the NNS used this comment clause over three times more
often than the NS. The third NNS hardly used any of the French comment clauses.
We concluded from the above comparative frequencies that the less frequent use of I think
(and the more frequent use of I ﬁnd) by French L2 speakers of English may well give the
wrong impression to Australian English NS, i.e. their interlocutor is ‘opinionated’. On the other
hand, the increased use of the expression je crois by Australian English L2 speakers of French
may give the impression of being ‘wishy-washy’ or not committed enough to one’s opinion to a
French NS.
The following two questions will be addressed together:
(b) Which functions do the comment clauses have in the native speaker discourse?
(c) Which of these functions also occur in the non-native discourse?
It was found that interactionally all four comment clauses are multifunctional and have three
main roles in discourse as follows: organisational (e.g. to mark a boundary in discourse), semantic
(to express an opinion/level of certainty) and pragmatic (as a face-saving device). The comment
clauses may all perform more than one of the above functions at any one time, and were
determined in each case by analysing the prosody, IU-position and context of each comment
clause.
222 Kerry Mullan
These functions of the comment clauses were originally identiﬁed in NS discourse (for both
languages), and then also found to occur in the NNS discourse, although it was found that some
functions were more common in either the French or Australian English NS data.
The ﬁnal question addressed was:
(d) How do the frequencies of the functions of the comment clauses compare in NS and NNS
discourse?
It was shown that the NNS of French used je pense and je crois as organisational discourse
markers more often than the French NS (particularly to mark a boundary in discourse), and that the
NNS considered je trouve to be predominantly a marker of speaker opinion. The NNS of English
used I think less often as an organisational discourse marker than the Australian English NS.
In addition, the NNS of French used je pense and je crois rather less often than the French NS
to express an opinion but used je trouve overwhelmingly for this purpose – much more often than
the native speakers. Conversely, the NNS of English used I think to express an opinion
signiﬁcantly more often than the Australian English NS, who prefer to use this comment clause to
organise discourse.
It is not clear to what extent NS are aware of the functions of these comment clauses in their
L1, and for this reason, it is difﬁcult to say whether the subtleties of the NNS use of these clauses
will be noticed. It is possible that the NNS ‘under-’ or ‘over-’ use of a clause for a particular
function may give the wrong impression to the NS, but no ﬁrm conclusions can be drawn on this
point without further analysis (see below, however).
One conclusion which can be drawn is the impression that the NNS prosody will give to the
NS. While an Australian English NS who utters the French comment clauses with full and
unreduced prosody will not usually encounter a problem (since French NS expect to hear their
interlocutor regularly expressing their opinion), the French NS who consistently utters I think as
an unreduced comment clause, with equal (if not emphatic) stress on the subject pronoun, will
unwittingly give the impression that they are ‘opinionated’ and intent on continually imposing
their opinions on their interlocutor.
It was pointed out earlier that few interlanguage pragmatic studies to date have studied the
acquisition of pragmatic markers (such as the comment clauses investigated here), and yet the
importance of both pragmatic competence and the roles of such comment clauses in discourse is
widely accepted. As Aijmer (2002) points out
Native speakers use discourse particles with great precision as signposts in the interaction, for
example to make it easier for the hearer to understand how the different parts of the text are
related. If a non-native speaker uses discourse particles incorrectly or not uses them at all this
may lead to misunderstandings. A structural and functional description of discourse particles will
therefore be useful for learners [ . . . ] (p. 3; my emphasis)
Saying what you think 223
The fact that Australian English NS use (and expect to hear) the comment clause I think in
discourse almost twice as often as French NS use the ‘equivalent’ comment clauses, no doubt
contributes to the stereotypical impression that English speakers often have of French speakers,
i.e. that they are ‘rude’ and ‘arrogant’ (Béal, 1990, p. 18), or at the very least imposing their
opinions on their interlocutor. On the other hand, to a French NS, the prevalence of such comment
clauses in Australian English interaction may well be misleading and contribute to the impression
that Australian English speakers are ‘wishy-washy’ (Béal, 1998, p. 6). Tendencies to ‘under-’ or
‘over-’ use these comment clauses transferred to one’s L2 will ensure that these negative
impressions of the Other persist.
Kerbrat-Orecchioni (2005, p. 42) quotes a survey mentioned in the French newspaper
Libération (23 January 2002) as stating that 19% of the English consider the French ‘‘the most
impolite nation on earth’’. It is not known how many people were surveyed, how ‘impoliteness’
was deﬁned, whether another nation was found to be more ‘impolite’ overall than the French, or
what the remaining 71% of the English thought – all of which clearly brings the value of the
ﬁndings (and indeed of such a survey) into question. Nevertheless, this once again highlights and,
more importantly, reinforces the long-standing fraught relationship between the French and
English speaking nations. This relationship has developed for a wide range of historical and
cultural reasons which cannot be entered into here; sufﬁce it to say that it has been de rigueur for
these nations to negatively stereotype and misunderstand one another for a long time. It is to be
hoped that this study might go some small way towards reversing this trend.
TRANSCRIPTION CONVENTIONS
(based on Du Bois et al., 1993; Jefferson, 1994)
. ﬁnal intonation contour
, continuing intonation contour
? appeal intonation contour
¿ very gently rising intonation contour
k falling pitch
m rising pitch
– truncated intonation unit
wou- truncated word
[ ] overlapping speech
¼ latching speech
LOUD increased volume
1soft voice1 decreased volume
224 Kerry Mullan
Wfasto increased speed
oslowW decreased speed
^ primary accent
(H) inhalation
(Hx) exhalation
(.) break in rhythm (0.2 seconds or less)
(1.0) time intervals over 0.3 seconds
. . . . . extraneous data/quotation omitted
the::n lengthened sound or syllable
{ } researcher’s comments (to provide more context or background information useful
to the reader)
. transcript omitted
REFERENCES
Aijmer, K. (2002). English discourse particles. Evidence from a corpus. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Béal, C. (1990). ‘It’s all in the asking’: A perspective on problems of cross-cultural communication between
native speakers of French and native speakers of Australian English in the workplace. ARAL Series S,
7, 16–32.
Béal, C. (1992). Did you have a good week-end? Or why there is no such thing as a simple question in cross-
cultural encounters. Australian Review of Applied Linguistics, 15(1), 23–52.
Béal, C. (1998). Keeping the peace: A cross-cultural comparison of questions and requests in Australian
English and French. In P. Trudgill & J. Cheshire (Eds.), The sociolinguistics reader (Vol. 1, pp. 5–43).
London: Arnold.
Béal, C. (2010). Les interactions quotidiennes en franc
-ais et en anglais: De l’approche comparative à
l’analyse des situations interculturelles. Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Biber, D., Johansson, S., Leech, G., Conrad, S., & Finegan, E. (1999). Grammar of spoken and written
English. London: Longman.
Brinton, L. (2008). The comment clause in English: Syntactic origins and pragmatic developments.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Chafe, W. (1993). Prosodic and functional units of language. In J. A. Edwards & M. D. Lampert (Eds.),
Talking data: Transcription and coding in research (pp. 33–43). London: Lawrence Erlbaum
Associates.
Coates, J. (1997). Women’s friendships, women’s talk. In R. Wodak (Ed.), Gender and discourse (pp. 245–262).
London: Sage.
Coates, J. (1998). Gossip revisited: Language in all-female groups. In J. Coates (Ed.), Language and gender. A
reader (pp. 226–253). Oxford: Blackwell.
Doro-Mégy, F. (2008). Étude croisée de think, believe, croire et penser. Paris: Éditions Ophrys.
Du Bois, J. W., Schuetze-Coburn, S., Cumming, S., & Paolino, D. (1993). Outline of discourse transcription.
In J. A. Edwards & M. D. Lampert (Eds.), Talking data: Transcription and coding in research
(pp. 45–89). London: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Gumperz, J. J. (1982). Discourse strategies. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Saying what you think 225
Gumperz, J. J. (1992). Contextualization and understanding. In A. Duranti & C. Goodwin (Eds.), Rethinking
context. Language as interactive phenomenon (pp. 229–252). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Halliday, M. A. K. (1994). An introduction to functional grammar. London: Edward Arnold.
Halliday, M. A. K. (2004). An introduction to functional grammar (3rd ed.). London: Edward Arnold.
Hansen, M.-J. M. (1997). Alors and donc in spoken French: A reanalysis. Journal of Pragmatics, 28,
153–187.
Horvath, B. (1985). Variation in Australian English: The sociolects of Sydney. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Jefferson, G. (1994). Conversation analysis transcription. ARAL Series S, 11, 185–191.
Kärkkäinen, E. (2003). Epistemic stance in English conversation. A description of its interactional functions,
with a focus on I think. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kärkkäinen, E. (2007). The role of I guess in conversational stancetaking. In R. Englebretson (Ed.),
Stancetaking in discourse (pp. 183–220). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kasper, G., & Rose, K. R. (2002). Pragmatic development in a second language. Oxford, MA: Blackwell
Publishing.
Kerbrat-Orecchioni, C. (1990). Les interactions verbales (Vols. I–III). Paris: Armand Colin.
Kerbrat-Orecchioni, C. (2005). Politeness in France: How to buy bread politely. In L. Hickey & M. Stewart
(Eds.), Politeness in Europe (pp. 29–44). Clevedon, OH: Multilingual Matters Ltd.
Levinson, S. C. (1983). Pragmatics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lipovsky, C. (2000). Impression management in cross-cultural job interviews. Paper presented at ALAA,
University of Melbourne, July 2000.
Mullan, K. (2007). Cultural differences in the expression of opinion: A comparison of interactional strategies
in French and Australian English discourse. Doctoral dissertation, Department of Linguistics, La Trobe
University, Australia.
Mullan, K. (2010). Expressing opinions in French and Australian English discourse: A semantic and
interactional analysis. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Müller, S. (2005). Discourse markers in native and non-native English discourse. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Pomerantz, A. (1984). Agreeing and disagreeing with assessments: Some features of preferred/dispreferred
turn shapes. In J. M. Atkinson & J. Heritage (Eds.), Structures of social action: Studies in conversation
analysis (pp. 57–101). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Redeker, G. (1991). Linguistic markers of discourse structure. Linguistics, 29, 1139–1172.
Schegloff, E. A. (1981). Discourse as an interactional achievement: Some uses of ‘uh huh’ and other things
that come between sentences. In D. Tannen (Ed.), Georgetown University Round Table on Languages
and Linguistics 1981 (pp. 71–93). Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press.
Schiffrin, D. (1990). The management of a co-operative self during argument: The role of opinions and stories.
In A. D. Grimshaw (Ed.), Conﬂict talk. Sociolinguistic investigations of arguments in conversations
(pp. 241–259). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Schourup, L. (1985). Common discourse particles in English conversation. New York, NY: Garland
Publishing Inc.
Stenström, A-B. (1995). Some remarks on comment clauses. In B. Aarts & C. F. Meyer (Eds.), The verb in
contemporary English (pp. 290–299). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Tateyama, Y., Kasper, G., Mui, L. P., Tay, H.-M., & Thananart, O. O. (1997). Explicit and implicit teaching of
pragmatic routines. In L. F. Bouton (Ed.), Pragmatics and language learning (Vol. 8, pp. 163–178).
Urbana-Champaign, IL: University of Illinois.
226 Kerry Mullan
Thomas, J. (1983). Cross-cultural pragmatic failure. Applied Linguistics, 4(2), 91–112.
Wardaugh, R. (1985). How conversation works. Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
Wierzbicka, A. (1986a). Human emotions: Universal or culture-speciﬁc? American Anthropologist, 88,
584–594.
Wierzbicka, A. (1986b). Introduction. Journal of Pragmatics, 10, 519–534.
Wierzbicka, A. (2006). English: Meaning and culture. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Wise, J. (1999). The gift of the gab and how to get it. Sydney: Harper Collins Publishers Australia.
Saying what you think 227
This page intentionally left blank
Subjectivity in Language and in Discourse
Edited by Nicole Baumgarten, Inke Du Bois and Juliane House
r 2012 by Emerald Group Publishing Limited. All rights reserved.
10
SUBJECTIVITY AND INTERSUBJECTIVITY
AS ASPECTS OF EPISTEMIC STANCE MARKING
Janus Mortensen
1. INTRODUCTION
Whether or not epistemic expressions like might, maybe, and obviously are intrinsically
subjective, i.e. inherently concerned with ‘‘self-expression in the use of language’’, to use John
Lyons’ deﬁnition of ‘‘locutionary subjectivity’’ (Lyons, 1994, p. 13), is a long-standing debate in
the literature. In this article, I want to argue that while epistemic expressions typically function as
markers of subjectivity, this is often but one aspect of their meaning in discourse. When speakers
use epistemic expressions, they enact and display epistemic stances through which they position
themselves not only vis-à-vis the propositional content they put forward, but also vis-à-vis their
interlocutors and the wider social context. In this sense, epistemic expressions fulﬁl complex roles
in discourse by, on the one hand, serving as potential expressions of subjectivity, and on the other,
signalling intersubjective relations between participants.
The article is organised in two parts. Firstly, in Sections 2 and 3, I account for my use of the
terms epistemic meaning and epistemic stance and discuss the notion of subjectivity in relation to
epistemic stance. In the second part, Section 4, I analyse and discuss three excerpts that illustrate
the pragmatic functions of epistemic stance marking in student-student interaction. The excerpts
are taken from student project group meetings conducted in Danish and student group meetings
where English is used as a lingua franca, and the analyses are thus intended to complement
existing work on epistemic stance marking which tends to focus on English, speciﬁcally discourse
where English is used as a ﬁrst language (L1) (see e.g. Hyland, 1998, 2005; Kärkkäinen, 2003,
2006). Finally, in concluding the article in Section 5, I summarise the argument which has been
laid out in the previous sections, namely that intersubjectivity as well as subjectivity should be
considered aspects of epistemic stance marking, and that epistemic stance marking can thus be
seen as a practice which bridges subjectivity and intersubjectivity in the use of language.
2. EPISTEMIC MEANING AND EPISTEMIC STANCE
Following Kasper Boye (2006, p. 157), I take epistemic meaning to be concerned with the
provision of ‘‘justiﬁcatory support’’ for propositions. Justiﬁcatory support can either be realised as
epistemic support where the speaker speciﬁes the force of knowledge or as epistemic justiﬁcation
where the speaker speciﬁes the source of knowledge (Boye, 2006, p. 20; see also Kronning,
2004). Epistemic justiﬁcation corresponds to what is often referred to as evidentiality in the
literature (cf. Aikhenvald, 2004), and epistemic support resembles the category known as
epistemic modality (cf. Palmer, 2001, pp. 24–34). Yet, Boye’s notion of epistemic support is
broader than the traditional category of epistemic modality because epistemic support meaning
encompasses linguistic expressions such as I think which are not strictly modal in the sense of
being narrowly concerned with the abstract notions of possibility and necessity.
The difference between the two types of justiﬁcatory support can be illustrated by means of the
following examples where probably in example (1) expresses epistemic support and reportedly in
example (2) expresses epistemic justiﬁcation (Mortensen, 2006).
(1) The fungus is probably poisonous
epistemic support
(force of knowledge)
(2) The fungus is reportedly poisonous
epistemic justiﬁcation
(source of knowledge)
Epistemic meaning is widely encoded in the languages of the world, and this can be taken as a
linguistic reﬂection of the fact that the ability to operate with different types and degrees of
justiﬁcatory support comprises an essential human cognitive faculty, a ‘cognitive survival skill’,
as Boye (2006) suggests. However, when speakers use epistemic expressions in discourse they do
not merely specify various degrees and types of justiﬁcatory support; epistemic expressions have a
range of context-dependent meanings that go beyond the basic epistemic meaning of assessing
reliability of information about the world. Among the most prominent pragmatic functions that
have been attributed to the use of epistemic expressions are politeness (Adolphs, 2008; Carretero,
1992; House & Kasper, 1981; Kärkkäinen, 1992; Nuyts, 2001a, pp. 162–167; Youmans, 2001),
tentativeness (Fitzmaurice, 2000; Preisler, 1986), mitigation, hedging and downtoning as well as
230 Janus Mortensen
boosting and persuasion (Downing, 2001; Holmes, 1982, 1984a, 1984b, 1988; Kärkkäinen, 1992;
Nikula, 1996).
To some extent, these functions can be considered variations on a theme, and often the different
pragmatic functions will be activated simultaneously in the same utterance: Epistemic expressions
are multifunctional, and their speciﬁc meaning in a particular context can be difﬁcult to pinpoint
(cf. Coates, 1987, p. 130). However, in the following I will argue that it is generally possible to
posit the negotiation of what Peter White (2000, 2003) has termed ‘the dialogic space’ as a basic
or underlying pragmatic function of epistemic expressions in the data under study. Following
White, I suggest that epistemic expressions can be said to have a dialogic function as they
participate in the orchestration and calibration of various points of view in the unfolding
discourse.1
They are used as ‘‘resources for interpersonal negotiation and positioning’’ (White,
2000, p. 71), and as such ‘‘act to acknowledge in some way, and thereby to introduce into the text,
the more or less divergent positions which the utterance in question responds to, or anticipates
dialogically’’ (p. 73). Martin and White (2005, pp. 102–104) distinguish between ‘dialogic
contraction’ and ‘dialogic expansion’ and associate modality and evidentiality exclusively with
the latter, i.e. with what I refer to as opening up the dialogic space. However, in Section 4, I will
argue that epistemic expressions can in some cases also be said to close or narrow the dialogic
space, or be ‘dialogically contractive’ in the terminology of Martin and White.
Furthermore, in drawing on John Du Bois’ notion of the stance triangle (Du Bois, 2007), I will
show that speakers essentially achieve three things when they use epistemic expressions in
discourse: By providing justiﬁcatory support by means of epistemic expressions they either open
or narrow the dialogic space around the issue under discussion, and in doing so they position
themselves vis-à-vis the propositions they put forward, and consequently align or disalign with
their interlocutors. With a common term, this process can be described as epistemic stance
marking or epistemic stance taking.2
The contextualised, dialogic meaning of epistemic stance marking is not part of the semantic
meaning of epistemic expressions themselves. As Du Bois (2007) has pointed out, ‘‘stance is
1
The dialogic or polyphonic potential of epistemic expressions has been studied from a parole
perspective within the framework of Appraisal Theory (Martin & White, 2005; White, 2003), and has
also received some attention on the level of langue within the framework of Scandinavian polyphony
theory (see contributions by Elvira Krylova and Hans Kronning in Therkelsen, Andersen, & Nølke,
2009). Both traditions draw on the work of Mikhail Bakhtin, as I also do implicitly in the present article.
2
The use of ‘stance’ as an umbrella term for linguistic features that facilitate the expression of ‘personal
feelings, attitudes, value judgements, or assessments’ (Biber, 2006, p. 87) appears to have evolved from
two papers by Douglas Biber and Edward Finegan in the 1980s (Biber & Finegan, 1988, 1989). The
speciﬁc notion of ‘epistemic stance’ is included in later works co-authored by Biber where it represents
one type of stance alongside other types such as attitudinal stance and style of speaking stance (e.g.
Biber, Johansson, Leech, Conrad, & Finegan, 1999, pp. 972–975; cf. Precht, 2003, p. 242; Precht,
2008, pp. 90–91).
Subjectivity and intersubjectivity as aspects of epistemic stance marking 231
a property of utterances, not sentences, and utterances are inherently embedded in their dialogic
contexts’’ (p. 148). This means that epistemic stance marking is not just a private matter,
something that speakers do on their own, as it were. It is always part of a dialogic context. Thus,
although the abstract semantic meaning of epistemic expressions may adequately be accounted for
by means of Boye’s (2006) concept of epistemic meaning, a more complex model is called for
when we want to account for the pragmatic function of epistemic expressions in discourse. Here
the notion of epistemic stance marking can be invoked and posited as an essential interactional
skill, on a par with Boye’s characterisation of the justiﬁcatory support structure as ‘a cognitive
survival skill’.
3. EPISTEMIC STANCE AND SUBJECTIVITY
As mentioned in the introduction, epistemic expressions are often seen as expressions of
subjectivity. The link between epistemic meaning and subjectivity is commonly implied in
deﬁnitions of epistemic modality through the notion of ‘speaker attitude’. A case in point is
Palmer (2001) who suggests that ‘‘epistemic modality and evidential modality are concerned with
the speaker’s attitude to the truth-value or factual status of the proposition’’ (p. 8, my emphasis).
The notion of speaker attitude has quite clear afﬁnities with the deﬁnition of subjectivity as ‘self-
expression in the use of language’ (Lyons, 1994), and it is also reminiscent of Benveniste’s
seminal paper on ‘Subjectivity in language’, ﬁrst published in 1958 in Journal de psychologie, in
which he argues that constructions of the type I believe, I presume and I suppose provide
‘‘a subjective context [ . . . ] suited to characterize the attitude of the speaker with respect to the
statement he is making’’ (Benveniste, 1971 [1966], p. 229, my emphasis). However, the link
between epistemic meaning and subjectivity is not as straightforward as it may seem. There are
two important points to make in this respect.
Firstly, it is necessary to make a distinction between the abstract semantic meaning of an
epistemic expression and the pragmatic meaning it acquires when used in discourse. From a
semantic point of view, epistemic expressions cannot be said to be subjective. They may
acquire subjective meanings by being used in contexts where it is clear that the justiﬁcatory
support they specify originates in the speaker, but this is not always the case. The justiﬁcatory
support speciﬁed by epistemic expressions may also be located outside the speaker, in which
case we may talk about objective epistemic meaning (cf. Boye, 2006, pp. 185–188; with
reference to Lyons, 1977, pp. 797–798). To exemplify, we may contrast the meaning of might
in (3) and (4):
(3) I think she might divorce Alfred subjective
(4) She said she might divorce him objective
232 Janus Mortensen
In (3), might can be said to be subjective as it points to the speaker’s evaluation of (or
attitude to) the proposition contained in the utterance. In (4), might cannot be said to be subjective
since the justiﬁcatory support it speciﬁes originates in someone other than the speaker. In the
case of example (5) below, there is no way of telling whether might is subjective or objective;
to provide an interpretation of this would require knowledge of the context in which the utterance
is used:
(5) She might divorce him subjective/objective
In sum, although there may be a tendency for epistemic expressions to be associated with
‘speaker attitude’ and ‘subjectivity’, it must be recognised that this association is pragmatic rather
than semantic.3
This argument is essentially analogous to the one Benveniste makes when he
maintains that suppose, believe and similar verbs are not inherently subjective: They only amount
to expressions of subjectivity when used in constructions with the ﬁrst person pronoun I
(Benveniste, 1971 [1966], p. 229).
Secondly, it can be argued that the traditional binary distinction between subjectivity and
objectivity is insufﬁcient if we want to account adequately for the way epistemic expressions are
used in discourse, because it neglects the importance of intersubjectivity in epistemic stance
marking. As Elise Kärkkainen and colleagues have argued, ‘stance taking’, which I take to include
epistemic stance marking,
is an activity that is essentially dialogic, interactive, and intersubjective in nature: it is
oriented to by co-participants who frequently engage in jointly constructing and negotiating
their stances, in connection with various social actions and over topically coherent or goal-
coherent courses of action. (Kärkkäinen, Keisanen, Rauniomaa, Niemelä, & Haddington,
2004, p. 49)
Thus, the meaning that epistemic expressions acquire in discourse when used to enact
epistemic stances will often move beyond subjectivity into the realm of intersubjectivity
(Kärkkäinen, 2006). In the following section, I will exemplify this process with examples from
student-student interaction in Danish and English.
3
For similar arguments see Nuyts (2001b) who argues that ‘‘the dimension of subjectivity, as it is
generally assumed to be present in epistemic modal expressions, is actually (in principle) an
independent evidential-like qualiﬁcational category’’ (p. 398) and Boye (2006) who holds that
‘‘ . . . subjective and objective interpretations simply constitute a conceptual nuance that can be added to
epistemic meaning’’ (p. 188).
Subjectivity and intersubjectivity as aspects of epistemic stance marking 233
4. EXEMPLIFICATION
4.1. Data and analytical focus
The examples that are analysed in this section are drawn from a pool of data which was
compiled for a comparative study of the use of English as a lingua franca (ELF) at student project
group meetings at Roskilde University in Denmark (Mortensen, 2010). The data pool includes
video recordings of project groups from three settings: Six groups from the International Basic
Studies in the Humanities at Roskilde University (the HIB groups), six groups from the Basic
Studies in the Humanities, also Roskilde University (the HAB groups), and four groups from a
British University (the GB groups). The HIB groups primarily use ELF, while the HAB groups
and the GB groups employ the dominant language of the surrounding society, i.e. Danish and
English respectively. In almost all cases, the dominant language of the surrounding society is also
the ﬁrst language (L1) of the participants in the HAB and GB groups. The project group meetings
were recorded by means of a single, stationary digital video camera and a separate digital audio
recorder. The meetings were held as part of the groups’ normal study activity, which means that
they were naturally occurring and consequential for the participants at the time of the recording.
4.1.1. Participants. For the purpose of this article, examples are drawn from two groups, a HAB
group and a HIB group. As outlined in Table 10.1, the groups consist of six and ﬁve students
respectively.
The HIB group represents what can be called ‘a lingua franca language scenario’ while the
HAB group represents ‘an L1 language scenario’ (see Mortensen, 2010 for a discussion of the
notion of language scenario). The participants in the HIB group do not have a shared L1 but they
are all competent users of English, which constitutes the dominant working language of the group.
In the HAB group, ﬁve of the six speakers have Danish as their L1 and this is also the working
language of the group. One participant, Eik, speaks Faroese as his L1 but in the group context he
uses Danish without any noticeable difﬁculty, and in general the other group members do not
generally seem to display any special orientation to him as a non-L1 speaker of Danish.4
On this
basis, the group can be said to operate in a Danish L1 mode, although Eik nominally speaks
Danish as a second language.
4.1.2. Problem-solving sequences. Problem-solving can be said to form a constitutive practice of
student project group meetings, which is indicated by the fact that group meetings tend to be
constituted by a disjointed succession of what can be referred to as problem-solving sequences
4
Faroese and Danish are both ofﬁcial languages of the Faroese Islands. Faroese is the main language of
instruction in school, while Danish is mandatory as a second/foreign language from grade 3 onwards.
234 Janus Mortensen
(Mortensen, 2010). In the joint enactment of such problem-solving sequences, speakers rely on a
number of ‘communicative acts’ (Preisler, 1986) or verbal act types, two of which form the
analytical focus in the following, namely ‘making a suggestion’ and ‘expressing disagreement’.
The examples analysed below will show some of the central pragmatic functions which epistemic
stance marking can be used to achieve in such contexts.
4.1.3. Means of expressing epistemic stance. Epistemic stance marking can be realised by a
variety of linguistic means in Danish as well as English, but in the examples given below I focus
exclusively on lexico-grammatical marking of epistemic stance, speciﬁcally how epistemic stance
marking can be achieved by means of epistemic adverbials (e.g. maybe), epistemic uses of modal
verbs (e.g. could) and epistemic main verbs in combination with ﬁrst person pronouns (e.g.
I think). In both Danish and English, epistemic meaning can be expressed by a number of
additional means, for instance by predicative uses of epistemic adjectives and epistemic nouns
(Holmes, 1982, pp. 27–28) as well as intonation (cf. Schubiger, 1965). However, for practical
reasons such means are not investigated in the following.
4.2. Opening and closing the dialogic space
Participants frequently use epistemic stance marking when making suggestions and expressing
disagreement. As part of such acts, epistemic expressions are commonly employed to either open
or narrow the dialogic space around the issue under discussion. In the following both options will
be exempliﬁed with examples from the HAB group. The examples are taken from a six-minute
problem-solving sequence in which the group is discussing how to analyse three qualitative
interviews they have conducted for their project. As a ﬁrst step, they have decided, guided by their
Table 10.1. Overview of the two project groups
HAB group HIB group
Speaker Gender L1 Speaker Gender L1
Caro Female Danish Louise Female Danish
Lisbeth Female Danish Marie Female Danish
Lone Female Danish Ernst Male German
Eik Male Faroese Jesper Male Danish
Jens Male Danish Peter Male English/Danish
Niels Male Danish
Subjectivity and intersubjectivity as aspects of epistemic stance marking 235
supervisor, to employ a method known as ‘meaning condensation’ (cf. Kvale, 1996, p. 193ff), but
they are not quite sure what that actually entails. The sequence, then, constitutes a problem-
solving sequence where the participants through negotiation arrive at a joint understanding of
what meaning condensation is, and how they should go about doing it.
4.2.1. Opening the dialogic space. Excerpt (1) represents a typical example of how epistemic
expressions can be used to open the dialogic space. The excerpt is taken from a point
approximately four minutes into the discussion where the group seems to have reached a
preliminary understanding of the concept of meaning condensation. Niels and Lone then jointly
raise the issue of how the condensations should be presented in the report: should they be included
in the main body of the text or attached as an appendix (lines 1–7)? The excerpt is paraphrased
line by line below. Notational conventions are provided as an appendix.
Excerpt (1)
Both Lisbeth and Jens present their preferred alternative, that the condensations should be
included as an appendix, under the scope of jeg tror (‘I think’) (line 8 and lines 9–10). By using this
epistemic expression of less than full justiﬁcatory support, Lisbeth and Jens in principle leave space
open for alternative suggestions to emerge in the ensuing discourse. Without epistemic stance
marking of this kind, their suggestions would have been more closed in the sense of leaving less
236 Janus Mortensen
space for alternative positions; compare: jeg tror vi skal have det som bilag (‘I think we should
include it as an appendix’) and vi skal have det som bilag (‘we should include is as an appendix’).
Taken at face value, the construction jeg tror constitutes a classic example of subjectivity in
language in which the speaker in literal terms expresses his or her opinion or belief about a
particular proposition. However, as illustrated by Excerpt (1), jeg tror does not necessarily merely
express subjectivity. The construction can also be said to have a prominent dialogic function in
that it leaves the dialogic space open for alternative points of view to emerge in the ensuing
discourse. This is arguably an intersubjective function which is concerned with placing the
speaker in relation to other participants and their potentially diverging positions. In this sense, the
two occurrences of jeg tror can be argued to have an intersubjective function which complements
the subjective, literal meaning of the expression of speaker belief.
4.2.2. Closing the dialogic space. When speakers make suggestions, they are not always
interested in leaving the dialogic space open; they may also, under certain conditions, be
interested in narrowing the dialogic space in an attempt to promote a particular point of view over
others. In Danish, this can be achieved quite effectively by means of a group of epistemic sentence
adverbials which are sometimes referred to as ‘modal particles’ (Andersen, 1982; Christensen,
2006; Harder, 1975) but which are perhaps more aptly termed ‘dialogic particles’ (Hansen &
Heltoft, 2011). The dialogic particles are not epistemic in a straightforward sense, but they can
nevertheless be argued to manage the expression of justiﬁcatory support in interaction because
they orchestrate points of view in the discourse and evaluate them against each other. These
particles are not the only epistemic expressions available in Danish that allow speakers to narrow
the dialogic space, but they are very frequent in the data under study, and therefore it seems
appropriate to use them as examples here.
Incidentally, Excerpt (1) has already provided an example of a dialogic particle, namely altså
in line 8, jeg tror altså vi skal have det som bilag (‘I think altså we should include it as an
appendix’). When used as a dialogic particle, altså can be described as an ‘argumentative’ particle
which speakers use to indicate that their utterance counts as an argument against a particular point
of view (Hansen & Heltoft, 2011).5
Thus, by using altså in making her suggestion in Excerpt (1),
Lisbeth underscores her point that they should include the condensed versions of the interviews as
an appendix by implicitly countering the opposite suggestion, i.e. that they should not include the
condensations as an appendix. In this sense, altså can be said to narrow the dialogic space. This
narrowing of the dialogic space obviously acts as a counter measure to Lisbet’s use of jeg tror in
the same utterance because altså puts a certain restraint on the openness suggested by jeg tror.
5
The two ﬁrst tokens of altså in Excerpt (1) (lines 2 and 4) are not dialogic particles; they are better
described as discourse markers, speciﬁcally markers of ‘reformulation’ or ‘re-starters’ (cf. Jensen, 2002,
pp. 72–76).
Subjectivity and intersubjectivity as aspects of epistemic stance marking 237
This type of complex epistemic stance marking is not uncommon in the data (see the discussion of
Jesper’s contribution in Excerpt (3) below), and it illustrates how delicately speakers may manage
the dialogic space by means of epistemic expressions.
The most frequent dialogic particle in the Danish data is jo. Like other dialogic particles in
Danish, jo has no lexical equivalent in English, but it can be said to carry an abstract semantic
instruction which may be formalised as ‘I hold a speciﬁc point of view p and you do not hold
non-p’ where p is the proposition that comes in the scope of jo (based on Hansen & Heltoft, 2011,
pp. 1050–1051, 1053). Jo is often described as a subjective particle because it indexes the
speaker as the source of justiﬁcatory support by default. However, since it establishes a position
for the hearer as well as the speaker, it can also be said to have an intersubjective, dialogic
meaning.
Excerpt (2) contains a typical example of jo. At this point in the problem-solving sequence, the
group is discussing how to select the interview themes which the meaning condensations should
focus on. In the talk leading up to the excerpt, the group members have been discussing their
supervisor’s advice in this respect, and agreed that her suggestion was to condensate the meaning
of the interviews with reference to relevant themes that occur in all interviews. However, Lisbeth
then adds that the supervisor also made the point that a relevant topic should not necessarily be
disregarded if only one or two of the three interviewees bring it up. Lisbeth illustrates this by
saying that the interviewee she has been working with does not mention the topic ‘history’ at all
(lines 2–4), but this does not mean that this topic should then be disregarded in the condensation
of the other interviews (lines 6–7).
Excerpt (2)
238 Janus Mortensen
By using jo in line 6, Lisbeth signals that she expects the point she is making to be non-
controversial: Jo reveals her own epistemic attitude towards the proposition that comes in it is
scope, but it also indicates which attitude she expects her interlocutors to have. That Lisbeth
considers her point to be non-controversial, bordering on the obvious, is underscored by her
inclusion of the adverb selvfølgelig (‘of course’) in line 6. Yet, the implied meaning of the
utterance would have been largely similar even if selvfølgelig had been excluded. Jo orchestrates
the expected positions of the interlocutors, and thus represents an attempt at narrowing the
dialogic space of the ensuing discourse. Whether or not interlocutors in fact accept the position
that the speaker anticipates by using jo is a different matter. When jo is used in interaction it will
often, as a result of the semantic instruction it carries, indicate consensus, but it can obviously also
be indicative of the opposite in situations where the speaker is trying to force a sense of consensus
onto the interlocutor, by using jo as ‘a cajoler’ (Edmondson, 1981). In the case of Excerpt (2), the
agreement expressed by Caro and Jens in lines 9 and 10 suggests that Lisbeth’s jo was licensed.
4.3. Coordinating epistemic stances
Excerpts (1) and (2) have illustrated the basic pragmatic function of epistemic expressions to
either open or close the dialogic space. The third excerpt below illustrates how speakers often
build complex epistemic stances in discourse, and how particular epistemic stances do not only
point forward in the sense of marking out the dialogic space for ensuing discourse, but also point
backwards as responses to stances adopted in previous discourse.
Excerpt (3) is taken from a nine-minute problem-solving sequence in which the HIB group is
discussing which language they should use when conducting an interview for their project. The
interview could in principle be conducted in either Danish or English, but quotations from the
interview included in the report must be in English. The excerpt represents the very beginning of
the problem-solving sequence which is launched spontaneously by Louise while the researcher is
still in the room ﬁxing the recording equipment.
Excerpt (3)
Subjectivity and intersubjectivity as aspects of epistemic stance marking 239
Following the opening of the problem-solving sequence (lines 1–8), Peter argues that it
would be preferable to conduct the interviews in English, apparently because he believes this
will make it easier to quote extracts from the interviews in the report. In the process of
making this suggestion, Peter adopts a quite complex epistemic stance. On the one hand, he
presents his own suggestion under the scope of epistemic expressions which express less than
full epistemic support. Thus, his use of I think in line 9 and the contracted hypothetical would
in line 19 arguably helps construct an open epistemic stance which in principle allows room
for alternative suggestions to be made. On the other hand, it is telling to observe how he pre-
empts the alternative option, which is later brought up by Louise, of conducting the interviews
in Danish. When spelling out the possible problems arising from this approach in lines 12–19
he speaks with full epistemic support, conﬁdently predicting that we’re just gonna lose so
much of the value’; not ‘I think we’re gonna’, ‘we’re probably gonna’ or ‘we might’. By
adopting these complementary epistemic stances, Peter establishes a ﬂexible and strategically
advantageous position for himself. His plain dismissal of the Danish-language option puts
maximum pressure on those supporting this model to present counter-arguments, while the
240 Janus Mortensen
tentativeness surrounding his own suggestion allows him the possibility of retreat, should it
prove necessary.
Peter’s use of epistemic stance marking is mainly prospective as he uses it to frame the dialogic
space of the ensuing discussion. However, following Peter’s initial suggestion, Louise and Jesper
take the ﬂoor and provide their perspectives on the matter. In doing so, they construct epistemic
stances which can be seen as being reactive as well as prospective. In lines 28, 30 and 32–35 Louise
is arguing that the interview does not necessarily have to be quoted verbatim. This point
undermines Peter’s argument that they should conduct the interviews in English in order to facilitate
verbatim quotation. In making her point, Louise uses the expression I’m thinking twice (in lines 28
and 32) and the phrase I don’t know (line 30) which can all be seen as subjective epistemic
expressions. Similarly to Peter’s use of open epistemic stance marking in the preceding discourse,
Louise’s use of these epistemic expressions allows her to express an idea without fully committing
to it. This places her in a ﬂexible and possibly strategically convenient position for the ensuing
discussion. But it also points backwards to what has gone before, since opening the dialogic space
in this way also means that she to some extent mitigates the face-threatening act of disagreeing
with Peter – while of course taking advantage of the room he left open in the dialogic space.
Jesper’s you could argue in line 40 seems to have a similar dual function of simultaneously
negotiating the boundaries of the ensuing dialogic space while also paying heed to the positions
which have been established in previous discourse. His contribution essentially provides backing
for Louise’s point, but by using the epistemic marker could his argument is placed in a
hypothetical frame, which allows space for disagreement. However, by including the tag right at
the end of his utterance, Jesper can be said to invite conﬁrmation of his point of view from the
other speakers. Thus, as with Lisbeth’s combination of jeg tror and altså in Excerpt (2), Jesper
here seems to be constructing a complex epistemic stance, on the one hand opening the dialogic
space by means of could and on the other trying to narrow the space for alternative positions by
including the ﬁnal tag.
4.4. Subjectivity and intersubjectivity as aspects of epistemic stance marking
Du Bois (2007) argues that ‘‘in taking a stance, the stancetaker (1) evaluates an object, (2)
positions a subject (usually the self), and (3) aligns with other subjects’’ (p. 163). I believe my
analysis of the use of epistemic expressions in the excerpts above supports this view of the
processes involved in epistemic stance taking or stance marking as I have called it in this paper.
When using epistemic expressions, speakers provide justiﬁcatory support for the propositions
they put forward, and in doing so they position themselves vis-à-vis these propositions. By
positioning themselves vis-à-vis a certain propositional content, speakers can be said to perform a
subjective act, they express themselves in the use of language vis-à-vis some object. But this is not
the only thing speakers achieve when they display epistemic stances. As argued above, taking or
Subjectivity and intersubjectivity as aspects of epistemic stance marking 241
making an epistemic stance also means that speakers negotiate the dialogic space, and this
negotiation plays a central role in aligning or disaligning speakers. In this sense, it can be argued
that epistemic stance marking is not merely subjective, concerned exclusively with the
speciﬁcation of ‘speaker belief’ or ‘speaker attitude’. It also has a clear intersubjective function,
which hinges on the fact that epistemic stance marking is a dialogic activity.
Saying that epistemic expressions should not merely or always be seen as expressions of
subjectivity is not the same as saying that epistemic expressions are always clearly used
intersubjectively. Recent work on stance marking in the use of ELF suggests that epistemic
expressions are often used somewhat differently in English lingua franca interaction as compared
to English L1 interaction. Baumgarten and House (2007, 2010) argue that epistemic expressions
such as I think and I don’t know are typically used in less ‘pragmaticalized’ ways in ELF
interaction than English L1 interaction. They ﬁnd that English L2 speakers tend to use such
epistemic expressions in their basic literal meanings, as description of cognitive states, or simply
as devices for buying time when encountering problems in the online production of speech. In
other words, the intersubjective, dialogic potential of the epistemic expressions is arguably
downplayed, while their subjective meanings are foregrounded. As a striking contrast to this,
Kärkkäinen (2006) ﬁnds that in her data of spoken American English:
stance taking marked with I think is a dynamic interactive activity, an interactional practice
engaged in by coparticipants in conversation, rather than a way of framing an isolated ‘thought’
or position of an individual speaker. (p. 711)
It seems, then, that epistemic expressions can in some cases be swayed more towards their
cognitive and subjective meaning potential, while in other cases, their potential for establishing
intersubjective relations is foregrounded. Thus, we may describe epistemic expressions and the
stances they are used to construct as ‘Janus-faced’:6
they typically point to the presence of the
speaker as a cogitating subject in the discourse, but they also typically point to the presence of
other subjects in the discursive context. In some cases, the subjective and intersubjective aspects
of epistemic stance marking are activated simultaneously, as in the examples that have been
discussed in this article, while in other cases, one aspect may take precedence over the other, as
illustrated with the discussion of the ﬁndings reported by Baumgarten and House and Kärkkäinen.
In this sense, it seems appropriate to characterise subjectivity and intersubjectivity as comple-
mentary aspects of epistemic stance marking.
6
I am using this expression with inspiration from John Gumperz who employs it in his introduction
(1996, p. 367) to Elinor Ochs’ article on ‘Linguistic resources for socializing humantiy’ (Ochs, 1996) in
which she argues that epistemic stance marking can be said to have further implications for the
construction of social meaning than discussed in the present article. In Mortensen (2010, 2012, I pursue
this idea by relating the patterns of epistemic stance displayed by individual speakers to their social
roles in the group context.
242 Janus Mortensen
5. CONCLUDING REMARKS
In this article, I have argued that while the use of epistemic expressions in discourse is typically
linked to subjectivity, understood as ‘‘self-expression in the use of language’’ (Lyons, 1994, p. 13),
epistemic stance marking also plays a central role in establishing intersubjectivity in interaction
by opening or narrowing the dialogic space and thereby negotiating the presence of multiple speakers
and their relative positions in the unfolding discourse. The excerpts that have been analysed illustrate
that the participants exploit a range of epistemic devices made available to them by the languages
they speak in order to manage the ﬁne balance between pushing personal agendas and participating
in the joint endeavour of solving the problem at hand. In this sense, epistemic stance marking can be
seen as a practice which bridges subjectivity and intersubjectivity in the use of language.
TRANSCRIPTION CONVENTIONS
d e Overlap between two or more speakers, upper brackets for the ﬁrst speaker,
b c lower brackets for additional speakers.
G Continued turn after overlap, same speaker.
E Latching, one speaker to another (no detectable pause between utterances).
?? Transcriber uncertainty.
xxx Unintelligible word or phrase.
(0.3) Pause, length measured in seconds.
(.) Pause, less than 0.2 seconds.
((text)) Comments made by the researcher/translation of non-English utterance.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The article is in part based on Mortensen (2010) and incorporates arguments and analyses from
this work.
REFERENCES
Adolphs, S. (2008). Deﬁnitely maybe: Modality clusters and politeness in spoken discourse. In P. Skandera
(Ed.), Phraseology and culture in English (pp. 257–274). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Aikhenvald, A. Y. (2004). Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Andersen, T. (1982). Modalpartikler og deres funktion i dansk. Danske Studier, 86–95.
Subjectivity and intersubjectivity as aspects of epistemic stance marking 243
Baumgarten, N., & House, J. (2007). Speaker stances in native and non-native English conversation: Iþverb
constructions. In J. D. ten Thije & L. Zeevaert (Eds.), Receptive multilingualism: Linguistic analyses,
language policies and didactic concepts (pp. 195–214). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Baumgarten, N., & House, J. (2010). I think and I don’t know in English as lingua franca and native English
discourse. Journal of Pragmatics, 42, 1184–1200.
Benveniste, É. (1971). Subjectivity in language. In É. Benveniste (Ed.), Problems in general linguistics
(pp. 223–230, M. E. Meek, Trans.). Coral Gables, FL: University of Miami Press. (Original
published 1966.).
Biber, D. (2006). University language: A corpus-based study of spoken and written registers. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Biber, D., & Finegan, E. (1988). Adverbial stances types in English. Discourse Processes, 11(1), 1.
Biber, D., & Finegan, E. (1989). Styles of stance in English: Lexical and grammatical marking of evidentiality
and affect. Text, 9(1), 93–124.
Biber, D., Johansson, S., Leech, G., Conrad, S., & Finegan, E. (1999). Longman grammar of spoken and
written English. Harlow: Longman.
Boye, K. (2006). Epistemic meaning: A cross-linguistic study. PhD thesis. Copenhagen University,
Copenhagen.
Carretero, M. (1992). The role of epistemic modality in English politeness strategies. Miscelánea: A Journal of
English and American Studies, 13, 17–36.
Christensen, T. K. (2006). Hyperparadigmer: En undersøgelse af paradigmatiske samspil i danske
modussystemer. PhD thesis, Roskilde University, Roskilde. Retrieved from http://rudar.ruc.dk/
handle/1800/2993
Coates, J. (1987). Epistemic modality and spoken discourse. Transactions of the Philological Society, 85(1),
110–131.
Downing, A. (2001). Surely you knew! Surely as a marker of evidentiality and stance. Functions of Language,
8(2), 251–282.
Du Bois, J. W. (2007). The stance triangle. In R. Englebretson (Ed.), Stancetaking in discourse: Subjectivity,
evaluation, interaction (pp. 139–182). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Edmondson, W. J. (1981). Spoken discourse: A model for analysis. London: Longman.
Fitzmaurice, S. (2000). Tentativeness and insistence in the expression of politeness in Margaret Cavendish’s
Sociable Letters. Language and Literature, 9(1), 7–24.
Gumperz, J. J. (1996). Introduction to part IV: The social matrix: Culture, praxis, and discourse. In J.
J. Gumperz & S. C. Levinson (Eds.), Rethinking linguistic relativity (pp. 359–373). Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Hansen, E., & Heltoft, L. (2011). Grammatik over det Danske sprog. København: Det Danske Sprog- og
Litteraturselskab.
Harder, P. (1975). Prædikatstruktur og kommunikativ funktion. NyS, 8, 103–112.
Holmes, J. (1982). Expressing doubt and certainty in English. RELC Journal, 13(2), 9–28.
Holmes, J. (1984a). Hedging your bets and sitting on the fence: Some evidence for hedges as support
structures. Te Reo, 27, 47–62.
Holmes, J. (1984b). Modifying illocutionary force. Journal of Pragmatics, 8(3), 345–365.
Holmes, J. (1988). Doubt and certainty in ESL textbooks. Applied Linguistics, 9(1), 21–44.
House, J., & Kasper, G. (1981). Politeness markers in English and German. In F. Coulmas (Ed.),
Conversational routine. Explorations in standardized communication situations and prepatterned
speech (pp. 157–185). The Hague: Mouton.
244 Janus Mortensen
Hyland, K. (1998). Hedging in scientiﬁc research articles. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hyland, K. (2005). Stance and engagement: A model of interaction in academic discourse. Discourse Studies:
An Interdisciplinary Journal for the Study of Text and Talk, 7(2), 173–192.
Jensen, E. S. (2002). On the development of Danish sentence adverbials. In H. Jansen, P. Polito, L. Schøsler &
E. Strudsholm (Eds.), L’inﬁnito & oltre. Omaggio a Gunver Skytte (pp. 463–480). Odense: Odense
University Press.
Kronning, H. (2004). Kunskapens källa och kunskapens styrka: Epistemisk konditionalis i franskan som
evidentiellt och modalt grammatisk uttryck. In K. Segerberg, (Ed.), Kungl. Humanistiska Vetenskaps-
Samfundet i Uppsala. Årsbok 2002 (pp. 43–123). Uppsala: Swedish Science Press.
Kvale, S. (1996). Interviews: An introduction to qualitative research interviewing. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
Kärkkäinen, E. (1992). Modality as a strategy in interaction: Epistemic modality in the language of native and
non-native speakers of English. In L. F. Bouton, Y. Kachru (Eds.), Pragmatics and language learning
(Vol. 3, pp. 197–216). Monograph Series. Urbana-Champaign, IL: University of Illinois.
Kärkkäinen, E. (2003). Epistemic stance in English conversation. A description of its interactional functions,
with a focus on I think. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kärkkäinen, E. (2006). Stance taking in conversation: From subjectivity to intersubjectivity. Text&Talk, 26(6),
699–731.
Kärkkäinen, E., Keisanen, T., Rauniomaa, M., Niemelä, M., & Haddington, P. (2004). Not just old hat: Stance
as an emergent, contingent and dialogic concept. In J.-O. Östman (Ed.), PIC Bulletin 7 (pp. 48–59).
Helsinki: University of Helsinki.
Lyons, J. (1977). Semantics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lyons, J. (1994). Subjecthood and subjectivity. In M. Yaguello (Ed.), Subjecthood and Subjectivity: The status
of the subject in linguistic theory: Proceedings of the colloquium The Status of the Subject in Linguistic
Theory, London, 19–20 March 1993 (pp. 9–17). Paris: Ophrys.
Martin, J. R., & White, P. R. R. (2005). The language of evaluation: Appraisal in English. Basingstoke, UK:
Palgrave Macmillan.
Mortensen, J. (2006). Epistemic and evidential sentence adverbials in Danish and English: A comparative
study. Cand. Mag. Thesis. Roskilde University, Roskilde. Retrieved from hdl.handle.net/1800/5032
Mortensen, J. (2010). Epistemic stance marking in the use of English as a lingua franca: A comparative study
of the pragmatic functions of epistemic stance marking in problem-solving sequences at student project
group meetings, with special emphasis on meetings where English is used as a lingua franca. PhD
thesis. Roskilde University, Roskilde.
Mortensen, J. (2012). Epistemisk positionering i dansk talesprog. NyS, 42, 62–91.
Nikula, T. (1996). Pragmatic force modiﬁers: A study in interlanguage pragmatics. Jyväskylä: Scientiﬁc
publishing.
Nuyts, J. (2001a). Epistemic modality, language, and conceptualization: A cognitive-pragmatic perspective.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Nuyts, J. (2001b). Subjectivity as an evidential dimension in epistemic modal expressions. Journal of
Pragmatics, 33(3), 383–400.
Ochs, E. (1996). Linguistic resources for socializing humanity. In J. J. Gumperz & S. C. Levinson (Eds.),
Rethinking linguistic relativity (pp. 407–437). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Palmer, F. R. (2001). Mood and modality (2nd ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Precht, K. (2003). Stance moods in spoken English: Evidentiality and affect in British and American
conversation. Text, 23(2), 239–257.
Precht, K. (2008). Sex similarities and differences in stance in informal American conversation. Journal of
Sociolinguistics, 12(1), 89–112.
Subjectivity and intersubjectivity as aspects of epistemic stance marking 245
Preisler, B. (1986). Linguistic sex roles in conversation: Social variation in the expression of tentativeness in
English. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Schubiger, M. (1965). English intonation and German modal particles – A comparative study. Phonetica, 12,
65–84.
Therkelsen, R., Andersen, N. M., & Nølke, H. (Eds.). (2009). Sproglig polyfoni: Tekster om Bachtin &
ScaPoLine. Århus: Aarhus Universitetsforlag.
White, P. R. R. (2000). Dialogue and inter-subjectivity: Reinterpreting the semantics of modality and hedging.
In M. Coulthard, J. Cotterill & F. Rock (Eds.), Dialogue analysis VII: Working with dialogue (pp. 67–80).
Tübingen: Max Niemeyer Verlag.
White, P. R. R. (2003). Beyond modality and hedging: A dialogic view of the language of intersubjective
stance. Text, 23(2), 259–284.
Youmans, M. (2001). Cross-cultural differences in polite epistemic modal use in American English. Journal of
Multilingual and Multicultural Development, 22(1), 57–73.
246 Janus Mortensen
Subjectivity in Language and in Discourse
Edited by Nicole Baumgarten, Inke Du Bois and Juliane House
r 2012 by Emerald Group Publishing Limited. All rights reserved.
11
SUBJECTIVE MODALITY IN PERSIAN
AND ENGLISH PARALLEL TEXTS
Mohammad Amouzadeh, Manoochehr Tavangar and Shadi Shahnaseri
1. INTRODUCTION
English is regarded as the major language of knowledge exchange in the contemporary world,
especially in the areas of science and new technologies. This phenomenon has led to a worldwide
translation industry. In this regard, translation functions as a means of intercultural communication
involving linguistic and cultural activities across languages and cultures.
The prospect of a lingua franca that might be needed for the whole world is something which,
according to Crystal (1997), has emerged strongly only in the 20th century, particularly in the
1950s. The reason is that the need for a global language is particularly appreciated by international
academic and business communities and it is here that the adoption of a single lingua franca is
most in evidence.
Considering the historical-political events in Iran, English has been overwhelmingly
predominant as the major lingua franca since 1960. The bulk of imported terms, the magnitude
of the translation industry, and the language institutions mushrooming all over the country support
the supremacy of English over other auxiliary languages used in Iran. The vocabulary of
contemporary Persian provides incontrovertible evidence of the close contact of that language
with English through translation (Jazayeri, 1967; Kianfar, 1989). However, lexical borrowing is
not the only consequence; other aspects of Persian, including grammar, discourse, and rhetorical
structures have also been inﬂuenced through such a contact situation (see Amouzadeh & House,
2010; Farshidvard, 1976; Najaﬁ, 1984).
This chapter aims to throw some light on how English modal priorities have been represented
in their parallel Persian texts; more speciﬁcally, it aims to show whether an impact of the English
language on the modal aspects of Persian is perceivable. In this regard, two hypotheses are to be
tested:
i. English discourse conventions are more likely to result in the frequent use of modal
auxiliaries exhibiting less certainty value than their Persian counterparts.
ii. By virtue of the continuous contact between English and Persian through translation, the
English textual priorities of modals have penetrated into their Persian equivalents.
2. THEORETICAL PRELIMINARIES
The complexities of translation have compelled scholars to present different frameworks for the
investigation of the translation phenomenon. The current study has adopted the functional-
pragmatic model of translation quality assessment proposed by House (1997, 2001). House (2009,
p. 4) deﬁnes translation as the process of replacing an original text, known as the source text, with
a substitute one, known as the target text. For her, ‘text’ is a particular use of language rather than
the sum of its linguistic constituents. This deﬁnition seems to be intuitively appealing since it
focuses on the text as a communicative event.
One of the basic concepts underpinning her model is ‘translation equivalence.’ Equivalence
cannot be linked merely to formal, syntactic, or lexical similarities because any two linguistic
expressions in two different languages are multiply ambiguous, seeing that languages cut up
reality in different ways. This explains why House (1997) has adopted a functional-pragmatic
equation in her framework for analyzing and comparing original and translated texts. Such an
adoption, according to her, is assumed to preserve meaning across two different languages and
cultures. House (1977, 1997, 2009), following Halliday’s systemic-functional grammar (2003),
maintains that three aspects of translation are particularly important: semantic, pragmatic, and
textual. In this regard, translation can be reformulated as the recontextualization of a text in the
source language (‘original text’) by a semantically and pragmatically equivalent text in the target
language (‘translated text’). Here we are faced with a kind of linguistic-textual analysis in which
the linguistic features of the source and target texts correspond in terms of Field, Tenor, and Mode.
But these elements do not lead directly to a statement of the individual textual function; rather, the
concept of genre (text type) is incorporated, as well. The last concept will be particularly useful in
this treatment as it characterizes some underlying aspects of textual structures and patterns. That is
to say, genre connects texts with the ‘macro contexts’ of the linguistic and cultural communities in
which they are embedded. The model shown in Figure 11.1 represents the concepts involved in a
translation process.
248 Mohammad Amouzadeh et al.
To evaluate a translation, it is therefore essential to take into consideration the fundamental
differences between types of texts (‘genre’). In this connection, House (2001, 2009) distinguishes
between overt and covert translation. In an overt translation, the original sociocultural frame is
left as intact as possible, given the need for expression in another language. By contrast, in a
covert translation, the translator can and should attempt to recreate an equivalent sociocultural
event. As House (2009, p. 37) states:
A covert translation operates therefore quite overtly in the discourse world of the target culture,
with no attempt being made to co-activate the discourse world in which the original unfolds, then
the original may be manipulated at the levels of text and register via the use of a cultural ﬁlter.
By cultural ﬁlter, she implies a means of capturing the different communicative norms and
expectations of the original and then recontextualizing them in the target language. Given the
distinction between overt and covert translation, it is deemed rather apparent that the cultural
transfer operates mainly in the case of overt translation, whereas the cultural ﬁlter operates
vigorously in the case of covert translation.
REGISTER
(Use of text)
Individual texts
FUNCTIONAL PROFILE
GENRE
(Type of
text)
FIELD
What the text is
about. What
kinds of things
are in the text?
TENOR
How the author, the reader, and
maybe the persons in the text
relate to each other through the
text.
MODE
How the text is
communicated;
how its parts fit
together as a text.
A SPECIFIC TEXT
The words and any non-verbal
content
CULTURAL CONTEXT
When and why the text was
composed?
Figure 11.1. A system for analyzing original and translated texts and assessing their functional
equivalence (taken from House, 2009, p. 35).
Subjective modality in Persian and English parallel texts 249
3. MODALITY IN THE PARALLEL TEXTS OF ENGLISH AND PERSIAN
Perhaps no other category in linguistics has been deﬁned and interpreted as divergently as
modality, under the rubric of which a wide range of phenomena have been studied. The complexity,
scope, and types of modality, on the one hand, and its interaction with other categories like tense,
aspect, negation, and interrogation on the other hand, have led some scholars like Kûdo (1989) to
state that modality has become the dustbin of grammatical categories. In fact, there is no consensus
among scholars as to how modality should be characterized. As a result, there are various deﬁnitions
of modality in logic, philosophy, formal semantics, and pragmatics. However, in this study we have
adopted the semantic treatment of modality presented by Lyons (1977, 1995), who deﬁnes modality
as ‘‘the expression of subjectivity’’ (Lyons, 1995, p. 331). In view of the wide range of meanings
expressed by modal expressions, there are different concepts associated with modality. However,
for the purpose of this study, we will concentrate on the speaker-related characteristics of modality
explicable in terms of a polarity system of certainty and subjectivity. In this respect, subjectivity
is meant to refer to an epistemic use of modal expressions which reﬂects a degree of the
speaker’s uncertainty. It is further assumed that in an epistemic modalized utterance, the speaker is
more concerned with the interpersonal function of the proposition than its ideational function. We
therefore treat modality as the attitude of the locutionary agent toward the degree of certainty, that is,
the degree of certainty that the locutionary agent assigns to the proposition.
The range of modal meanings can be expressed through verbs, adjectives, nouns, adverbs,
particles, clitics, and supra-segmental elements like intonation. Modality is then treated as a
semantic-pragmatic and discourse phenomenon rather than a mere grammatical category. This
stance is in contrast to some Persian grammarians who misleadingly equate modality with the
grammatical category of mood (e.g. Afrashi, 2007). The fact is that the Persian language provides a
number of morpho-syntactic devices whereby modality can be expressed. A detailed examination
of the entire gamut of such devices would be beyond the scope of the present study, yet some
familiarity with the major modal expression types has the advantage of creating background
information against which our investigation of subjective modality (i.e. speaker-related aspect of
modality) becomes more understandable. As a general principle, modality can be encoded as one of
the following categories or a combination of them (Tavangar & Amouzadeh, 2009):
(a) Modal adjectives
(b) Modal adverbs
(c) Modal lexical verbs
(d) Modal auxiliary verbs
(e) Modal state predicates
(f) Mood
(g) Tense
250 Mohammad Amouzadeh et al.
Here, however, we will only present brieﬂy the ﬁrst four types of them, as these are the most
common devices for encoding modal concepts in Persian.
Modal adjectives characteristically occur in conjunction with the copulas budæn (‘be’) and
šodan (‘become’) and most often receive an objective epistemic interpretation. Examples include
momken (‘possible’), mohtæmel (‘probable’), bæ’id (‘very unlikely’), zæruri/lazem (‘necessary’),
hætmi (‘certain’), and others. Corresponding to these adjectives are their negative counterparts
that also collocate with the copulative verbs mentioned above: qeyre-momken (‘impossible’),
qeire-mohtæmel (‘improbable’), and qeire-zærui/lazem (‘unnecessary’).
Modal adverbs in Persian exhibit an essentially objective behavior. They are exempliﬁed by
expressions like šayæd (‘perhaps’), mohtæmelan (‘probably’), bišæk (‘undoubtedly’), ye væxtdidi
(‘it is remotely possible’), be ehtemaleqærib be yæqin (‘quite probably’), kimidune (‘possibly’),
etc. (Tavangar & Amouzadeh, 2009).
As for modal lexical verbs in Persian, we can identify two subtypes. The ﬁrst subtype, which is
predominantly objective, includes such epistemic modal verbs as be-næzærþamædæn (‘to seem’),
nemudæn (‘to appear’), bærþamædæn (‘to give the impression’), āškarþbudæn (‘to be apparent’)
By contrast, the second subtype is essentially subjective and encompasses deontic expressions like
esrarþkærdæn (‘to insist’), entezarþdaštæn (‘to expect’), pišnæhadþkærdæn (‘to suggest’),
ejazeþdadæn (‘to permit’).
What characterizes the modal auxiliary verbs used in Persian is that they can denote a wide
range of concepts which fall under three basic headings: epistemic, deontic, and dynamic. Typical
examples are momkenþbudæn (‘to be possible’), bayestæn (‘to be necessary’), mæjburþbudæn
(‘to be obliged to’), načarþbudæn (‘to have no option but’), tævanestæn (‘be able to’/’can’),
xastæn (‘will’), etc. Of these the last two pertain to the realm of dynamic modality and are
invariably construed as being objective since they are associated with the propositional content of
an utterance. In contrast, the remaining examples are either epistemic or deontic, depending on the
concept expressed by the modal auxiliary in question (Tavangar & Amouzadeh, 2009).
As far as the English modal system is concerned, it is a well-studied area with which most
readers seem to be familiar. However, a few words regarding its modal auxiliary verbs are in
order. English modal auxiliaries are generally divided into three categories:
i. Central/canonical modals: must, can, may, will, shall, could, might, should, would
ii. Quasi-modals: have to, be going to, be able to, be bound to
iii. Marginal/peripheral modals: need, ought to, had better, would rather, be to, dare, have (got)
Semantically speaking, a modal auxiliary changes the neutrality status of the proposition. The
following examples clarify the issue:
(1) Shiva is (at) home.
(2) Shiva must be at home.
Subjective modality in Persian and English parallel texts 251
(3) Shiva can be at home.
(4) Shiva may/might be at home.
As can be observed, the English modal verbs must, can, may, and might in the above sen-
tences alter the kind of situation expressed by the predicate in (1). They exemplify epistemic
necessity, probability, and possibility, respectively. Must in (2) designates that the locutionary
agent is certain about the truth of the proposition based on a logical process of deduction
from facts known to him. Can in (3) shows that the locutionary agent is not as certain as she
is in sentence (1), and sentence (4) expresses the lowest degree of certainty about the
proposition in comparison with the previous ones. It should be noted that the interpretation
of these types of modality is generally determined by the context of situation. For example,
the following is, out of context, inevitably indeterminate between epistemic and deontic
interpretations:
(5) Shiva may come tomorrow.
Example (5) can be interpreted either as perhaps Shiva will come, which constitutes an epistemic
reading, or as Shiva is permitted to come, which has a deontic one.
A cursory look at the English and Persian modal systems suggests that the two languages
employ different devices to express modality. In other words, Persian modal auxiliaries cannot be
regarded as being either quantitatively or qualitatively equivalent to their English counterparts.
The point that requires special attention is that the concepts internalized in English modal
auxiliaries can rarely be expressed by their equivalents in Persian. Take the following instance:
(6) Jenny was able to leave hospital only 6 hours after the baby was born.
In English, the concept of achievement implied by was able to cannot be expressed by a general-
ability term like could, while in Persian the word tævanestæn (‘can’ or ‘be able to’) functions as a
cover term to convey both meanings.
4. METHOD AND DATA
In order to examine the above-mentioned hypotheses, we will study the frequency of epistemic
modal auxiliaries in a selection of 250 texts. The corpus includes a body of books and articles
excluding abstracts, notes, tables, and ﬁgures. The data of the current study have been taken from
the area of educational psychology. The selection of the genre from this speciﬁc area could be
justiﬁed by the simple fact that such a genre can be found in Persian both before and after the
onset of an extensive translation of English texts into Persian. Our corpus contains 500,000 words
from two different periods. This amount of data constitutes a rather small corpus but provides
sufﬁcient examples to enable authors to come up with some insightful ﬁndings. The ﬁrst period
252 Mohammad Amouzadeh et al.
contains original Persian texts (so-called ‘comparable’1
texts, i.e. monolingually produced texts)
and translated texts from English into Persian (a parallel2
sub-corpus) from 1956 to 1971 (the
period when the inﬂuence of English seems to have been in its initial stages). The corpus for the
second period contains an equivalent set of original and translated texts in Persian and English
from 1998 to 2009. This second period can show whether or not imported English communicative
norms of modality have penetrated the Persian texts (both original and translated).
The average frequency of modal markers in this study was calculated per word. In order to
show the distribution of such auxiliaries across the data sets, the authors decided to consistently
use a standardized size of 10,000 words to show the frequency of modal auxiliaries. The type,
size, and distribution of the data under investigation are presented in Table 11.1.
The aim is to ﬁnd out whether the Persian translations of English modal auxiliaries correspond
to the strength of English modal ones or not, to determine the types of translations (i.e. overt or
covert) and the effect of the different translation choices on the overall communicative make-up
of the texts.
5. DATA ANALYSIS
Having separated the modals can, may, will, must, shall from could, might, would, ought to,
should, Perkins (1983, p. 50) described the ﬁrst as the major auxiliaries and the second as the
minor ones. With regard to such a distinction, Coates (1983) believes that although the second
group of modal auxiliaries tends to convey the sense of possibility, this group is rarely used in
Table 11.1. Types and size of data sets as well as their time spans
Text type Number of words Time span
Persian translation 89,000 1956–1971
Persian original 140,000 1956–1971
Persian translation 121,000 1998–2009
Persian original 150,000 1998–2009
1
The term ‘comparable’ refers to the comparable nature of English original texts and Persian original
texts, which stems from the fact that both are the result of monolingual, i.e. nontranslated, text
production.
2
The term ‘parallel’ refers to parallel sets of English original texts, i.e. source texts, and their Persian
translations.
Subjective modality in Persian and English parallel texts 253
scientiﬁc English texts and therefore cannot be considered as the English canonical modal
auxiliaries characteristic of the academic genre.
With the above observations in mind, and in order to test our hypotheses, we shall investigate
the selection of three core modals (i.e. may/might, can, and must) and the Persian expressions
chosen to render them in the translations. Must represents the full commitment of the locutionary
agent to the truth of the proposition of an utterance. Can suggests that the truth of the proposition
is probable; that is, the locutionary agent is not as certain as in the case of must. May and might
represent mere possibility and are indicative of the lowest certainty value the locutionary agent
assigns to her/his proposition. All epistemic uses of these modal auxiliaries in the English source
texts in the corpus will be isolated and analyzed together with their Persian translations. Such
translations of the epistemic modal auxiliaries show, on the whole, some variation concerning the
certainty values they convey, but some English modal auxiliaries were translated by their Persian
equivalents with the same certainty values. In this regard, examples (7) and (8) are worth
considering:
(7) English source text:
Some of these environmental inﬂuences must be more dangerous than those identiﬁed so far.
Persian translation:
Back translation:
Some of the environmental effects must be more dangerous than the group that has been
identiﬁed so far.
(8) English source text:
Further, it cannot be that the instructions and structural similarities drove these relations
because there were some differences in instructions and the general format of the HAT scale
and the formats of the HO and BDHI.
Persian translation:
Back translation:
Furthermore, the matter cannot just be that instructions and structural similarities bring
about these relations because there are some differences in instructions and the general
format of the HAT scale and the formats of the HO and BDHI.
In example (7), the writer assigns a strong degree of certainty by choosing the modal auxiliary
must. It seems that the same value of certainty is conveyed by the modal auxiliary bayad (‘must’)
in the translated text. In example (8), the meaning of subjective epistemic probability is reinforced
254 Mohammad Amouzadeh et al.
as the writer combines negation with the modal can. The translator’s selection of tavanad (‘can’)
and its combination with preﬁx nemi– (‘not’) induces a more or less similar meaning in the
Persian translation.
As we observed earlier, the three English modal auxiliaries studied here are most often
translated by an expression with a higher degree of certainty in Persian. This point can be
supported by the fact that in the text from the ﬁrst period 50% of the occurrences of the English
modal auxiliary may were translated into categorical utterances, i.e. the indicative mood without
any overt modal auxiliary equivalent. The following two examples clarify this issue:
(9) English source text:
Considering the high rate of cancer and leukemia among children and adolescents, we may
recognize the signiﬁcance of psychological treatment for preventing the psychological
impact of the disease.
Persian translation:
Back translation:
Considering the high incidence of cancer and leukemia among children and adolescents,
one can realize the importance of psychological-therapeutic methods for preventing the
psychological impact of the disease.
(10) English source text:
Therefore, the study of happiness and well-being especially among Italian university
students may have different features from the same study conducted within different cultures.
Persian translation:
Back translation:
Therefore, the study of joy and satisfaction especially among Italian university students,
must have its own features in comparison with other cultures.
As can be seen in example (9), not only the English modal auxiliary may is translated into mitavan
(‘can’), which represents a lower certainty value, but it is also rendered as an impersonal modal,
which seems ungrammatical in English active sentences.
All in all, the frequencies of the epistemic modal auxiliaries in our data are given in Table 11.2,
below.
As can be seen, in Table 11.2 shows, it seems that the occurrences of modal auxiliaries are
higher in the translated texts as compared with the Persian original texts in both time spans. In the
Persian originals, the modal auxiliaries show a decrease in the second period.
Subjective modality in Persian and English parallel texts 255
The comparison of the English source texts and their translations into Persian shows a general
preference for translating the English modals may and might into their Persian equivalences in the
second period (14% of equivalent translation of may in the ﬁrst period; 35% in the second period).
The certainty values in the Persian translations of the English modal auxiliaries under
investigation are given in Figures 11.2 and 11.3, below.
Figures 11.2 and 11.3 show that there is some remarkable diachronic change between the
two time spans. One interesting point to note is that, overall, the translators seem to have
chosen a freer and more creative translation more often in the ﬁrst period. However, what is
more interesting in the present context is that the translators used modally unmarked pro-
positions (i.e. indicative mood) for three core modal auxiliaries in this period. As Palmer
(1986, 2001) suggests, a categorical sentence with its indicative mood, sometimes called zero
modal sentence, is an unmarked member of epistemic modality. This suggestion is signiﬁcant,
as it points to the absolute degree of certainty the locutionary agent assigns to her proposition.
But, compared with modalized utterances that reinforce subjectivity, a categorical utterance,
because of the lack of any apparent modal lexical marker, seems less subjective or, more
precisely, rather more objective. As Figures 11.2 and 11.3 and the following examples show, in
the ﬁrst period, 50% of the English modalized sentences with auxiliary may were rendered as
zero modal sentences. In other words, the lowest certainty degree in the English data was
reﬂected as an absolute certainty degree in the translated texts. Example (11), taken from the
ﬁrst period, shows this:
Table 11.2. Occurrence of three modal auxiliaries
Text type Time
period
bayad
(‘must’)
tavanestan
(‘can’)
shayad
(‘may’)
Total
number
(per 10,000
words)
Number
of words
Persian
translation
1956–1971 65 48 32 145 (16.2) 89,000
Persian
original
1956–1971 125 26 14 165 (13.6) 121,000
Persian
translation
1998–2009 50 150 90 290 (20.7) 140,000
Persian
original
1998–2009 21 102 46 169 (11.2) 150,000
256 Mohammad Amouzadeh et al.
Figure 11.2. The certainty values in the Persian translations of three English modal auxiliaries in
the time span 1956–1971.
Figure 11.3. The certainty values in the Persian translations of three English modal auxiliaries in
the time span 1998–2009.
Subjective modality in Persian and English parallel texts 257
(11) English source text:
It may seem a relatively straightforward task to rationalize research effort in the ﬁeld of
education, to make statements of policy and to establish a list of priorities.
Persian translation:
Back translation:
Justifying the research effort in the ﬁeld of education, making statements of policy and
establishing a list of priorities must be a relatively simple task.
In this example, it seems that the writer of the source text reinforces his lowest certainty position
by combining the modal auxiliary ‘may’ with the subjective modal main verb ‘seem’ which,
according to Hyland (1994), is a double hedge, while the translator chooses the modal bayad
(‘must’) to manifest a strong degree of certainty. As a consequence, these two sentences are not
equivalent with regard to the concept of certainty.
Thus, it seems that the translated texts from the ﬁrst period apparently diverge from the English
modal communicative norms with respect to the distribution of the modal auxiliaries and the
reﬂection of the certainty degree, while the translations from the second period converge with
English modal priorities. As Figure 11.3 shows, although the Persian modal shayad (‘may’) does
not take the ﬁrst position in the translated texts of the second period, its indicative mood is
brushed aside in favor of the modal tavanestan (‘can’).
Another point worth mentioning is the way in which English passive sentences are rendered in
Persian.
(12) English source text:
It can be argued that research and educational development lead to outcomes that fall into
three separate groups.
Persian translation:
Back translation:
One can argue that research and educational developments lead to outcomes which fall into
three separate groups.
(13) English source text:
The ﬁeld of educational activity is so large and so complex that not all areas can be
addressed, by an individual, a department, an institution, or even within a country.
258 Mohammad Amouzadeh et al.
Persian translation:
Back translation:
The ﬁeld of educational activity is so vast and so complex that the areas cannot be
recognized by an individual, a department, an institution, or even on a nation-wide scale.
Example (12) is from the data of the ﬁrst period (1956–1971), in which most of the English modal
passive constructions were translated into nonpersonal active constructions. It seems that,
compared with the active constructions, the passive ones – especially those with a by-phrase – are
not pragmatically well accepted in Persian usage. Amouzadeh and House (2010) argue that Persian
and English passive constructions differ in terms of function and distribution, and that the type of
passive with by-phrase used in English was rarely used in the classic texts of Persian as this
language has other alternatives to reconstruct the meaning of the English passive in translations.
One of those alternatives is an active construction with a nonpersonal agent, which is manifested
through an impersonal modal. Our analysis indicates that out of a total of 300 English modal
passive constructions, 270 were translated into Persian active constructions, 210 of which were
impersonal active ones. But what can be inferred from example (13) – taken from the data of the
second period (1998–2009) – is that, despite having access to the above-mentioned alternatives,
Persian translators in the second period prefer to use passive constructions with tavassote (‘by’) for
the English modal passive constructions. Some of those translations seem pragmatically odd as, for
instance, example (13) might well have been translated into an impersonal modal active
construction. Overall, there is a considerable increase of modal passive constructions in both
the English source texts and their Persian translations from the second period: Out of 760
English modal passive constructions, only 102 were translated into Persian impersonal modal
active ones.
The comparison of the English modal auxiliaries in active and passive constructions with their
Persian translations indicates that the translated texts from the second period are strongly
inﬂuenced by English communicative norms. Not only does the total number of modal auxiliaries
and passive constructions increase, but also the certainty norms of Persian modals converge with
English modal preferences.
It seems that the Persian cultural ﬁlter was not applied so thoroughly to the Persian translated
texts in the second period, thus allowing the priorities of English modal auxiliaries and passive
constructions to inﬂuence the Persian discoursal system. So, it can be concluded that, unlike those
of the ﬁrst period, the translations of the second period are ‘‘overt’’ in the sense used by House
(2009). In the ﬁrst period, English passive constructions were mostly rendered as impersonal
active constructions, which can be considered as a kind of ‘‘covert’’ translation.
Subjective modality in Persian and English parallel texts 259
In the Persian original texts, the scenario seems somewhat different. Let us look at example
(14), taken from the ﬁrst period:
(14)
English translation:
Investigation was made of the stages of children’s mental development in ﬁelds like
understanding physical quantities (for example, volume, surface and length). Based on this,
schemata must be the organized patterns, or units of thought, or practice which are
constructed in mind in order to give a sense to the interactions of people with their
environment. Adaptation is an schema consisting of absorption and correspondence and
absorption means entering new information into the previous ones. Thus, balance exists if
one’s understanding equates with his previous acquisition, but imbalance arises when
through the existing schema, no new experiences obtained. Imbalance creates a feeling of
dissatisfaction which causes a sense of need in people and which forces them to achieve a
cognitive balance through forming a new schema.
As example (14) indicates, most of the sentences are categorical (zero modal) and the only modal
auxiliary is bayad (‘must’), which conveys the highest degree of certainty on the part of the writer.
This situation reinforces the absolute certainty of the indicative mood in non-modal sentences. If
we go back to Table 11.2, we will ﬁnd that in the ﬁrst period the occurrences of modal auxiliaries
are less frequent in the Persian originals than in the Persian translations and the English source
texts. Thus, there seems to be a general preference for categorical statements in the Persian data of
the ﬁrst period – both in the translated and the original texts. A higher degree of certainty is
manifested in the texts through using the modal auxiliary bayad (‘must’) and the modally
unmarked indicative mood. We can consider this as a conﬁrmation of our ﬁrst hypothesis; that is,
English discourse conventions are more likely to produce more frequent uses of modal auxiliaries
with lower certainty values than Persian ones. In other words, the results of the parallel and
comparable data taken from the ﬁrst period indicate that English texts – on account of the total
number of modal auxiliaries and the greatest proportion of may – are more implicit and subjective
260 Mohammad Amouzadeh et al.
while Persian texts, both translated and original, are less implicit and reﬂect objectivity. This
feature is more apparent in the Persian originals than in the Persian translated texts.
As was speciﬁed earlier, the Persian cultural ﬁlter did not operate so thoroughly in the second
period, with the result that English preferences penetrated Persian translations. However,
the Persian originals of the second period (1998–2009) behaved differently from the Persian
translations. In this regard, example (15) is illustrative:
(15)
English translation:
Also some thinkers separate critical thinking from creative thinking. What becomes
apparent when thought process is discussed shakes the foundations of this categorization,
to some extent. It seems that thought is the same process as problem solving, and
problem solving is the same as investigation. Thus, one can say that the method is the
same as the scientiﬁc method which thinkers use in solving problems although in the
problem solving process, a thinker also criticizes what s/he comes up against on every
level.
As example (15) and Table 11.2 indicate, the occurrences of modal auxiliaries are less frequent in
the second period (a frequency of 11.2 compared with the average frequency of 13.6 of the ﬁrst
time span). But what is worth noting is the distribution of those modal auxiliaries. Unlike what is
attested in the Persian originals of the ﬁrst period and in parallel with the behavior of modal
auxiliaries in the Persian translations from the second period, the greatest proportion of modal
auxiliary use is restricted to tavanestan (‘can’), as for instance in example (15). For the modal
auxiliaries bayad (‘must’), tavanestan (‘can’), and shayad (‘may’), the average frequencies of
9%, 69%, and 22% per 10,000 words are taken in the second time span, while the average
frequencies for these modals in the ﬁrst period are 76%, 16%, and 8%, respectively. This means
that in the second period, the Persian modal auxiliaries tavanestan (‘can’) and shayad (‘may’)
have a growth of 4 and 2.5 times, respectively, whereas the modal bayad (‘must’) has a decrease
of 8 times in Persian original texts. But, as mentioned earlier, the diachronic study of our Persian
texts suggests that modal auxiliaries are not the canonical manifestation of modality in Persian.
For the Persian original texts show that the Persian language uses mood as the strongest
grammatical manifestation of modality (indicative vs. subjunctive). In addition, it also employs
Subjective modality in Persian and English parallel texts 261
modal lexical verbs, adverbs, adjectives, and other devices. Figure 11.4 shows the distribution of
lexical or semi-lexical modals found in the Persian originals in the two periods under
investigation.
One should note that although the total number of modal auxiliaries in the Persian originals
decreases in the second period, there is a considerable rise in the use of main verbs, especially
with the modal verb of benazarmi’ayad (‘seem’) as can be observed in example (15). A
qualitative analysis shows that most of those main verbs in the second period are what Hyland
(1994) calls ‘indicative’ and ‘evidential verbs.’ Unlike purely subjective verbs such as think and
believe, verbs like report, indicate, and seem express explicitness rather than the implicitness
hidden in subjective modal auxiliaries and main verbs.
Another important point to notice in the Persian originals of the second period is that,
compared with their counterparts from the ﬁrst period, the modal passive constructions decrease
by 25%. At the same time the number of canonical, or promotional (Givón, 1990), passives,
which are non-modalized constructions, increases by 70%. But, as mentioned earlier, in the
English data, modal passive constructions become more frequent in the second period. If we
accept modality as sometimes reﬂecting for the mere reﬂection of subjectivity, then categorical
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
(1335-1350)
other models Main models verbs auxiliary models
(1377-1388)
Figure 11.4. Average frequencies of lexical modal markers in the Persian originals of the
two time spans. Note: The dates correspond to the time spans 1956–1971 CE and 1990–2009 CE.
262 Mohammad Amouzadeh et al.
sentences, whether active or passive, are closer to the extreme of objectivity. To clarify the issue,
look at the following examples:
(16) Shiva put the basket on the table.
(17) The basket must have disappeared.
(18) The basket was put on the table.
(16), (17), and (18) have, more or less, the same proposition. (16), as a zero modal active
construction, topicalizes the agent. It can thus be said that it is agent-oriented. (18), as a non-
modalized passive construction, topicalizes the patient and is accordingly patient-oriented. Lyons
(1977) states that passive utterances are not subjective. Comparing (17) – a modal passive
construction – with (16) and (18) shows that it cannot be as objective as (18). If we draw a scale
with subjectivity at one extreme and objectivity at the other, it seems that sentences such as (17)
are in the middle of the scale and can be called subjectively neutral, especially when it is noted
that in such a modal passive construction, because of the presence of a modal auxiliary, the
attitude of the locutionary agent is prominent.
The notable presence of the modal auxiliaries – especially may and might as well as their
combinations with other hedges – does not at all guarantee the truth of the English propositions
and make the English texts under investigation more implicit and subjective. This subjectivity is
reinforced by a 2.5% increase of the modal passive constructions in the second period. It seems
that the writers of the English texts use the modal auxiliary may in both active and passive
constructions to manifest their low degree of certainty in order to leave enough room for their
readers’ objections. In this sense, modality functions as strategic hedging in the genre of English
scientiﬁc texts. At the same time, it makes the texts more implicit and the interpersonal function
more prominent. In contrast, it seems that the Persian originals – especially those of the second
period – because of the decrease of modal auxiliaries in general, and the 70% increase of non-
modal passive constructions, diverge from the English modal conventions. Thus, the second
hypothesis is not conﬁrmed.
This resistance of the Persian originals seems, to be due to some extent, to the fact that English
and Persian use different devices to express modality linguistically; that is, English uses modal
auxiliaries, whereas Persian prefers grammatical mood. Therefore, there is probably no exact
equivalent means of modality expression in these two languages. Moreover, it seems that Persian
writers try to make the information load of their texts more prominent, and they seem to pretend
that their scientiﬁc statements are more neutral and objective. This is achieved through the
tangible presence of categorical active and passive constructions; even the modal main verbs in
the texts from the second period belong to the objective category. This indicates that the Persian
original texts under investigation, especially in the second period, manifest explicitness and
therefore the ideational function is more prominent. Yet, given the prestigious value of English as
a language of knowledge and technology in Iran, as well as the weakness of the Persian cultural
Subjective modality in Persian and English parallel texts 263
ﬁlter in the second period, a delicate movement from the extreme of absolute certainty toward that
more probability can be observed in both the translated and original Persian texts from the second
period. Although it cannot be regarded as a change in the modality system of Persian, in the Persian
texts under investigation a new alternative modal auxiliary, i.e. tavanestan (‘can’) was adopted.
Such a replacement cannot be considered as language change as a result of contact between English
and Persian at the present time, but it is, as Koller (1995) states, a ‘stylistic shift.’
6. CONCLUSION
The purpose of this study has been to ﬁnd out how English communicative preferences are
handled in translation, and whether an inﬂuence of English as a global lingua franca on Persian
communicative preferences is perceivable. In this regard, two hypotheses have been tested:
(1) compared with Persian scientiﬁc texts, their English counterparts are more implicit and
subjective, and English discourse conventions tend to produce modal auxiliaries that show lower
certainty values; (2) by virtue of the continuous linguistic contact between English and Persian
through translation, English modal priorities have penetrated their so-called Persian equivalents.
It is now widely acknowledged that various perspectives on translation give rise to different
analytic approaches. For the current study, House’s functional-pragmatic model of translation
evaluation (1977, 2009) has been adopted. Using this model for determining whether and how
original and translation texts are equivalent, has made it clear that the nature of the equivalence
depends on the type of translation produced: overt or covert. However, it is just in the case of the
latter that the translator has to consider the different discourse worlds of the source and target cultures
and apply what is known as a cultural ﬁlter. We have applied the model to one aspect of modality
associated with the concept of certainty. In this regard, modality has been deﬁned as the degree of
certainty the locutionary agent assigns to the proposition expressed in an utterance. Compared with
categorical utterances, modalized utterances manifest a high, medium, and low certainty degree,
prototypically expressed in English by the modal auxiliaries must, can, and may.
A corpus analysis of all occurrences of the modal auxiliaries must, can, and may in their
epistemic use, and their rendition in the translated texts has shown us the effect of different
translation choices on the overall communicative make-up of the texts in the two periods. The
results indicate that, compared with the Persian original texts, the overall use of modal auxiliaries
is more frequent in English texts. Thus, the ﬁrst hypothesis has been conﬁrmed. Compared with
the Persian translated texts, the hedging use of auxiliary may makes English translated texts,
especially those of the second period, more implicit and subjective. However, the Persian original
and translated texts seem to behave differently in the two time spans. In the ﬁrst period, both the
Persian original and the translated texts exhibit a certain tendency to diverge from the English
texts, which can be construed as the application of the cultural ﬁlter: The English texts were
264 Mohammad Amouzadeh et al.
marked by a preference for the lowest degree of certainty, which was apparently disfavored in
the Persian texts, especially the original ones from the ﬁrst period. Through the application of
the cultural ﬁlter, the modal auxiliaries with lower certainty value in the English source texts were
adjusted so that the propositions emerged with higher or even unmarked certainty values in the
Persian translations. The modal passive constructions were mostly rendered as impersonal modal
active ones. Thus, no sign of convergence was observed.
Compared with the translations from the ﬁrst period, the later ones show an increase in the
frequency of modal auxiliaries and a general tendency toward the medium-certainty modal
tavanestan (‘can’). Unlike what was seen in the ﬁrst period, English modal passives were mostly
translated into their Persian counterparts, making the Persian covert translations converge, to some
extent, on English modal passive preferences. However, the scenario seems to be different for the
Persian original texts from the second period. Although the general tendency toward the medium-
certainty modal tavanestan (‘can’) was reinforced (an average frequency of 6/8 viz. 2/1) and the
frequency of occurrence of Persian modal main verbs increased, the overall number of modal
auxiliaries, as well as the number of modal passive constructions in favor of promotional passive
constructions decreased. Hyland (1994) has classiﬁed modal main verbs into ‘‘subjective verbs’’
like think and believe versus, ‘‘evidential or indicative verbs’’ like seem, report, and witness.
Adopting his classiﬁcation, for the Persian original texts which makes a text more subjective or
objective, we have come to the conclusion that the number of the evidentials or, in other words,
objective verbs, is greater. Therefore, it seems that as a result of the dominance of overt
translation, although the Persian translated texts of the second period converge more toward the
English modal priorities, no marked dominance of the lowest certainty modal value has been
observed in both the later translated and especially the original Persian texts. We can conclude
that, compared with the English originals, the second Persian originals diverge from English
modal priorities. This means that the second hypothesis has not been conﬁrmed.
REFERENCES
Afrashi, A. (2007). Persian language structure. Tehran: SAMT.
Amouzadeh, M., & House, J. (2010). Translation as a language contact phenomenon. The case of English and
Persian passive. Languages in Contrast, 10(1), 54–75.
Coates, J. (1983). The semantics of the modal auxiliaries. London: Croom-Helm.
Crystal, D. (1997). English as a global language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Farshidvard, K. (1976). Tathire tarjomeh dar zabane farsi. Farhang o Zendegi, 23, 4–47.
Givón, T. (1990). Syntax. A functional-typological introduction (Vol. II). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Halliday, M. A. K. (2003). Systemic background. In J. J. Webster (Ed.), On language and linguistics
(pp. 185–198). London: Continuum.
House, J. (1977). A model for translation quality assessment (1st ed.). Tübingen: Verlag Narr.
Subjective modality in Persian and English parallel texts 265
House, J. (1997). Translation quality assessment: A model revisited (2nd ed.). Tübingen: Narr.
House, J. (2001). Translation quality assessment: Linguistic description versus social evaluation. Meta, 46(2),
243–257.
House, J. (2009). Translation. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Hyland, K. (1994). Hedging in academic writing and EAP textbooks. English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 13(3),
239–256.
Jazayeri, M. A. (1967). Western loan words in Persian, with reference to westernization. Islamic Culture,
40(4), 207–220.
Kianfar, J. (1989). Tarjomeh dar ’ahde gajar. Nashre Danesh, 10(1), 23–28.
Koller, W. (1995). The concept of equivalence and the object of translation studies. Target, 7, 191–222.
Kûdo, H. (1989). Modality of the modern Japanese sentence: An introduction. Tokyo Gaikokugo Daigaku
Ronshu, 39, 13–33.
Lyons, J. (1977). Semantics (Vol. 2). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lyons, J. (1995). Linguistic semantics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Najaﬁ, A. (1984). Is Persian in danger? Nashre Danesh, 3(2), 15–17.
Palmer, F. R. (1986). Mood and modality. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Palmer, F. R. (2001). Mood and modality (2nd ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Perkins, M. R. (1983). Modal expressions in English. London: Frances Pinter.
Tavangar, M., & Amouzadeh, M. (2009). Subjective modality and tense in Persian. Language Sciences, 31,
853–873.
266 Mohammad Amouzadeh et al.
APPENDIX
Selection of the Persian original texts:
Selection of the Persian original texts:
.
Selection of the translated texts:
.
Subjective modality in Persian and English parallel texts 267
Selection of the English original texts:
Bentham, S. (2002). Psychology and education. London: Routledge.
Dewey, J. (1916). Democracy and education. New York, NY: Macmillan.
Gutek, G. (1990). Philosophical and ideological perspectives on education. London: Routledge.
Keeves, J. P., & McKenzie, P. A. (1994). Research in education: nature, needs and priorities. In T. Husen & T.
Postlethwaite (Eds.), International encyclopedia of education (pp. 5031–5038). Oxford: Pergamon.
Scott, D. (2000). Realism and educational research: New perspectives and possibilities. London: Routledge.
Spencer, H. (1902). Education: Intellectual, moral and physical. New York, NY: D. Appleton and Company.
268 Mohammad Amouzadeh et al.
Part III
CROSS-LINGUISTIC COMPARISON
This page intentionally left blank
Subjectivity in Language and in Discourse
Edited by Nicole Baumgarten, Inke Du Bois and Juliane House
r 2012 by Emerald Group Publishing Limited. All rights reserved.
12
SUBJECTIVITY IN CONTRAST: A CROSS-LINGUISTIC
COMPARISON OF ‘I THINK’ IN AUSTRALIAN
ENGLISH, FRENCH AND SWEDISH
Kerry Mullan and Susanna Karlsson
1. INTRODUCTION
This chapter focuses on the use of I think in conversation, and its use and (approximate)
equivalent forms in Australian English, French (je pense, je crois and je trouve – literally ‘I think’;
‘I believe’ or ‘I think’; and ‘I ﬁnd’ or ‘I think’ respectively) and Swedish jag tycker and jag tror.
Such phrases have attracted a lot of attention in recent years, and have been referred to in a
number of ways in different studies. They have been called, among other things, epistemic
predicates (Aijmer, 1998), parentheticals (Dehé & Kavalova, 2007; Schneider, 2007; Urmson,
1952), mental verbs, stance markers (Kärkkäinen, 2003) and (I-oriented) comment clauses
(Povolná, 2005). Common to all these studies is that they refer to phrasal collocations consisting
of a verb that predominantly takes arguments that refer to participants in the discourse
(‘egophoricity’; cf. Dahl, 2000). Most commonly, they are made up of a ﬁrst person pronoun in
combination with a verb in the present tense. The verb predominantly tends to be a ‘mental’ verb,
i.e. a verb that concerns the area of cognition, belief or opinion.
We refer to these phrases as comment clauses, since they can be considered epistemic
parentheticals which are clausal in origin and which function as pragmatic markers (Brinton,
2008). As Biber, Johansson, Leech, and Finegan (1999, p. 197) point out, comment clauses are
also usually short, loosely connected to the main clause and can appear in a variety of positions;
all of these features apply to I think and its equivalents in this study. Kaltenböck (2008, 2009a,
2009b) also argues strongly for I think to be considered mainly as a comment clause, based on his
ﬁndings that the presence or absence of the that-complementizer does not exhibit different
prosodic behaviour.
It has been shown across languages that these subjective (or intersubjective – cf. Fitzmaurice,
2004; Kärkkäinen, 2006) phrases tend to grammaticise into discourse markers (Brinton, 1996,
2008; Heine, 2003; Traugott, 2003). Aijmer (1997) prefers to make a distinction between
grammaticisation and what she calls ‘‘pragmaticalization’’ (p. 6), but points out that several of
the same processes are involved in both, i.e. increased frequency, pragmatic strengthening,
semantic bleaching, phonological reduction and subjectiﬁcation. Traugott (1995) sees the latter
process as particularly important in grammaticisation, deﬁning it as ‘‘a pragmatic-semantic
process whereby meanings become increasingly based in the speaker’s subjective belief/state/
attitude towards the proposition’’ (p. 31). She points out that in the case of I think, e.g., the
subject is losing its referential (or objective) properties and grammaticising into the starting-
point of a perspective (pp. 38–39). Traugott later claims that where subjectiﬁcation occurs, the
speaker’s perspective is an essential element in the new polysemies of a word or expression
(2003, p. 634).
Travis (2004) also suggests that many cognitive verbs have adapted to the necessity of managing
interaction, and that the most frequently used constructions of these verbs are grammaticizing into
ﬁxed formulae for this purpose. Thompson and Mulac’s (1991) study looks at I think and I guess,
and proposes that these expressions have grammaticized from a main subject and verb with
complement to syntactically free ‘‘epistemic phrases comparable to epistemic adverbs’’ (p. 313).
Their basis for this grammaticization is the frequency of I think occurring without that:
[ . . . ] the evidence suggests that the most frequent subjects and verbs occurring with what
syntacticians have considered to be ‘that-less’ ‘complements’, . . . have in fact been reanalyzed
by speakers as epistemic phrases, which have a degree of freedom not possible for subject-verb
combinations; in particular they are ‘free’ to occur in other positions, just as other epistemic
phrases, such as epistemic adverbs, do in English.
The grammaticization processes described above apply to the case of I think. Kärkkäinen’s
study of I think in American English refers to the phonological reduction and increased speed of I
think in intonation unit-initial position (Kärkkäinen, 2003, p. 121), and Mullan’s (2007, 2010)
ﬁndings for Australian English are consistent with this. However, some occurrences of the
comment clauses in the data demonstrate full pronunciation, without reduction or increased speed,
as would be expected from an item still in the process of grammaticizing.
Aijmer (1997) claims that I think has developed into a discourse marker which is syntactically
a speech-act adverbial (p. 1). However, she sees this development as incomplete, since I think
continues to be a main verb followed by a complement clause, at the same time as developing new
functions in conversation ‘‘as a response to the demands of planning and interaction with the
hearer which may in their turn become conventionalised’’ (p. 40).
272 Kerry Mullan and Susanna Karlsson
Some of the grammaticization processes can also be applied to je pense, je crois and je trouve,
although fewer than those which apply to I think (Mullan, 2007, 2010). These are layering,
divergence, pragmatic strengthening, semantic bleaching, phonological reduction, subjectiﬁcation
and polysemy. This indicates that the French expressions do not seem to have grammaticised to
the same extent as I think.
In the Swedish data, many of the processes associated with grammaticization are found with
jag tycker and jag tror. Speciﬁcally layering, semantic strengthening, semantic bleaching,
phonological reduction and subjectiﬁcation seem to be at work (Karlsson, 2006). However,
Thompson and Mulac’s (1991) claim that the loss of that is an intrinsic feature of the
grammaticization of epistemic phrases into discourse markers may have to be revised for Swedish.
Although most of the occurrences of jag tycker lack the equivalent of that in instances where it
would traditionally be obligatory, there is no or very little indication that any of the other
grammaticization processes are at work: they appear semantically rich, phonologically unreduced,
and – perhaps most importantly – function as main verbs, triggering subordinate word order in the
clause they command.1
However, in positions where ‘that’ is not expected or even grammatical,2
several grammaticization processes are observable.
In this study, however, we will refrain from a detailed discussion of the ﬁner points of
grammaticization across languages. From our own research and that of others, we determine that
processes of grammaticization are at work in all three languages, but to different degrees and in
somewhat different ways. Here, we discuss the frequency and the distribution of I think, je pense,
je crois, je trouve, jag tycker and jag tror.
2. DATA
This comparative study is based on the detailed analysis of 660 occurrences of the comment
clause I think and its equivalents in French and Swedish in a total of sixteen hours of conversation.
The corpora analysed consist of three similar data sets made up of separate conversations by
native speakers of general Australian English3
and standard French4
(Mullan, 2007, 2010), and
1
However, other phrases, such as jag menar (‘I mean’) have progressed much further down this cline
and only rarely occur in a phonologically non-reduced form, and just as rarely syntactically command
the clauses following them.
2
Cf. variations ((b)–(f)) in Section 4 below.
3
It is generally agreed that there are three main types of Australian English: broad, general and cultivated,
and that these are largely distinguished on the basis of vowel pronunciation (cf. Horvath, 1985).
4
Hansen (1997) deﬁnes standard French as ‘‘the kind which is spoken by educated Parisian speakers
and which exhibits no noticeable regional or social characteristics’’ (p. 154). While this may seem a
narrow deﬁnition, it is representative of the French spoken by these participants.
Subjectivity in contrast 273
Swedish (Karlsson, 2006). These were recorded in Australia between August 2000 and September
2002, and in Sweden between 1985 and 1999 (Table 12.1).
The participants in the English and French conversations are all aged between 19 and 42, are of
middle-class background, all have (or are studying for) a university degree and come from
different parts of Australia and France. The English and French conversations comprised two
participants with the researcher present: the participants were mostly made up of complete
strangers meeting for the ﬁrst time, except for one pair of co-workers who had only met one week
prior to the recording, and one pair who were acquaintances (cf. Mullan, this volume). The
Swedish data is a compilation of a variety of different interactions, such as dinner conversations,
health care conversations, focus group interviews and private telephone conversations, all in all 31
conversations. The conversations are made up of over 70 individual participants, between the age
of 19 and 65 years. They come from all parts of Sweden, although with a slight preference for the
middle parts of the country, especially the West Coast and the Stockholm area. They vary greatly
in length: some are as brief as 25 seconds, while one conversation is close to 1.5 hours.
Although the researcher was present at the French and English recordings, her participation
was limited to asking questions on certain topics to initiate the conversation and to adding
comments occasionally. Bardovi-Harlig and Hartford (1992) refer to this type of data collection as
‘‘unscripted experimental’’, where speakers are brought together to have a conversation or to
accomplish a task, and where the researcher provides no instructions other than suggesting the
topic of conversation. Most of the Swedish data consists of conversations that would have taken
place with or without the researchers’ interests; however, in two of the conversations, a researcher
Table 12.1. Distributions of comment clauses in Australian English, French and Swedish
Tokens Per 10,000
words
Total number of
words
Number of
participants
Time
I think 281 58 31,847 9 4h 30
je
pense
133 20 41,035 9 5h
je crois 36 5
je
trouve
59 9
jag
tycker
69 10 70,000 77 6h 30
jag tror 82 12
274 Kerry Mullan and Susanna Karlsson
is present, introducing certain topics into the discussion. Despite the fact that some of the
conversations recorded for these corpora were pre-arranged (and do not therefore strictly conform
to the deﬁnition of completely ‘‘naturally occurring’’ in Conversation Analysis), all the
interactions which took place are representative of what is referred to in Conversation Analysis as
talk-in-interaction, and will therefore be referred to as conversations throughout this study.
3. METHODOLOGY
The data was analysed qualitatively using a combination of the principles of the sequential-
interactional frameworks of Interactional Sociolinguistics and Conversation Analysis (CA).
However, we have chosen the intonation unit (IU) rather than the turn constructional unit (TCU)
used in CA as our unit of analysis, and some of the data was collected in a more controlled setting
than the CA norm (see discussion above).
In addition we include some basic quantitative data, such as frequency counts of intonation
units and the comment clauses under analysis. Quantitative data are also uncommon in CA, since
individual items cannot be examined in isolation from the surrounding context. However, all of
the occurrences of the comment clauses have been analysed individually and qualitatively in
context. This was achieved by examining the surrounding discourse (i.e. topic under discussion
and any other relevant contextual information), the position in the intonation unit, and the prosody
of the comment clause itself. As such the quantitative data are not simple frequency counts, but a
useful illustration of the functions and positions of the comment clauses.
Interactional Sociolinguistics combines Gumperz’s anthropological work on culture, society,
language and the self (Gumperz, 1982 inter alia), and Goffman’s (1967) sociological focus on
social interaction and the notion of face, (subsequently developed further by Brown and Levinson
(1987)). Gumperz (1982) called for a ‘‘general theory of verbal communication which integrates
what we know about grammar, culture and interactive conventions into a single overall framework
of concepts and analytical procedures’’ (p. 4). The ‘‘concepts’’ Gumperz was referring to were
those of contextualisation cues, contextual presupposition and situated inference:
1. Contextualisation cues are the verbal and nonverbal signals which frame a speech
exchange (Gumperz, 1995, p. 102). Gumperz places particular emphasis on the importance
of prosody as a contextualisation cue in interaction, and recommends ‘‘isolat[ing]
sequentially bounded units, marked off from others [ . . . ] by some degree of thematic
coherence’’ (Gumperz, 2001, p. 223).5
5
Gumperz later refers to these bounded units as ‘‘informational phrases’’ and notes that these
correspond to what discourse analysts refer to as idea or information units (1992, p. 234); his description
of how to identify these informational phrases prosodically matches that of the intonation unit.
Subjectivity in contrast 275
2. Contextual presuppositions are assumed background knowledge which allows situated
inferencing.
3. Situated inferencing refers to the understanding of both the communicative activity (i.e.
chatting, joking etc.), and the speaker’s actual illocutionary act.6
CA is the study of recorded, naturally occurring talk-in-interaction, where the principle aim is
to discover how participants understand and respond to each other’s turns, with the main focus on
sequences of actions. CA has several central interactional organisation concepts, as outlined
below:
1. Turn-taking. The seminal paper by Sacks, Schegloff and Jefferson (1974) details a system
of conventions for turn-taking in conversation – principally that ‘‘overwhelmingly one
party talks at a time’’ (p. 15).
2. Adjacency pairs. Turn-taking sets up a system of utterances which generally occur in pairs.
The production of a ﬁrst pair part of an adjacency pair such as a greeting or an invitation,
sets up the constraint that the interlocutor provide the appropriate or ‘conditionally
relevant’ second pair part of the adjacency pair, such as a return greeting or an acceptance.
3. Preference and (dis)preferred responses. This refers to the second pair part of an adjacency
pair. For example, an invitation requires a response in the form of an acceptance or a
decline, where the preferred response would be acceptance. This concept of preference
does not refer to the psychological disposition of the speaker, but to the structural feature of
the sequential organisation of the adjacency pair, where the preferred response is the
unmarked one.
4. Recipient design. This refers to ‘‘a multitude of respects in which the talk by a party in a
conversation is constructed or designed in ways which display an orientation and sensitivity
to the particular other(s) who are the co-participants’’ (Sacks et al., 1974, p. 727).
5. Repair. This refers to corrections of what participants perceive as problems in speech.
As mentioned above, the unit of analysis employed in this study is the intonation unit (IU). An
IU is deﬁned technically by Du Bois, Schuetze-Coburn, Cumming, and Paolino (1993) as ‘‘a
stretch of speech uttered under a single coherent intonation contour [ . . . ] marked by cues such as
a pause and a shift upward in overall pitch level at its beginning, and a lengthening of its ﬁnal
syllable’’ (p. 47). Chafe (1993) describes intonation units as ‘‘in a sense what language is all
about’’ (p. 37). He points out that if the IU is a verbal representation of what is in the speaker’s
mind at a certain time, then the speaker’s intention must be to convey that idea to the listener; in
this way IUs can reveal how much and what kind of information a speaker can focus on at once
6
See Gumperz (1982, 1992) for a more detailed explanation of contextualization and related concepts
in Interactional Sociolinguistics.
276 Kerry Mullan and Susanna Karlsson
(p. 39). This is clearly linked to the CA concept of recipient design and the sequential nature of
co-construction of discourse in CA and Interactional Sociolinguistics.
Both Kärkkäinen (2003) and Travis (2005) have demonstrated the importance of the intonation
unit as the unit of analysis in discourse. Kärkkäinen shows how the intonation unit position affects
the function and meaning of I think in American English, and claims that ﬁnding that epistemic
stance almost always occurs at the beginning of intonation units would not have been possible
without using the intonation unit as ‘‘the locus of the expression and qualiﬁcation of speaker
commitment’’ (Kärkkäinen, 2003, p. 33). Travis points out the importance of transitional
continuity to an analysis of discourse markers, since the function often correlates with the IU
contour (Travis, 2005, p. 23) – i.e. marking ﬁnality. Like Kärkkäinen (2003), we believe that
using the IU allows for a more interactional (rather than grammatical) approach to subjectivity,
and that this approach is the most suited to our data.
The transcription conventions given at the end of this chapter are based on a combination of the
University of California, Santa Barbara method of discourse transcription devised by Du Bois
et al. (1993) and that of CA devised by Jefferson (1994).
4. DISTRIBUTION WITHIN THE INTONATION UNIT
While it is primarily prosody (and context) which determines whether the comment clause is
functioning as what we have called an organisational discourse marker or not (see Section 5), the
IU position is equally important. It was found that IU position and the corresponding IU contours
were crucial in determining the exact organisational discourse marker role of all the comment
clauses under investigation; for example, a truncated IU usually indicates online planning, and a
falling intonation contour signals topic ﬁnality and also turn completion on occasion.
The following (equivalent) examples have been constructed to illustrate the possible IU
positions for the comment clauses in our data. Only one of each English, French and Swedish
example has been chosen, but as can be seen from the three languages presented, the comment
clause can appear in exactly the same IU position for each language, namely initial (a), medial ((b)
and (c)), ﬁnal (d) and separate-after the IU (f). None of the three languages seem to allow the
possibility of the comment clause appearing in IU-separate position before the IU (e).
(a) I think (that) Australia has a lot to work on.
(b) Australia I think has a lot to work on.
(c) Australia has I think a lot to work on.
(d) Australia has a lot to work on I think.
(e) ? I think (.) Australia has a lot to work on.
(f) Australia has a lot to work on (.) I think.
Subjectivity in contrast 277
(a) Je pense que l’Australie a encore beaucoup de travail.
(b) L’Australie je pense a encore beaucoup de travail.
(c) L’Australie a je pense encore beaucoup de travail.
(d) L’Australie a encore beaucoup de travail je pense.
(e) ? Je pense (que) (.) l’Australie a encore beaucoup de travail.
(f) L’Australie a encore beaucoup de travail (.) je pense.
(a) Jag tycker (att) Australien har mycket att jobba på.
(b) Australien tycker jag har mycket att jobba på.
(c) Australien har tycker jag mycket att jobba på.
(d) Australien har mycket att jobba på tycker jag.
(e) ? Jag tycker (.) Australien har mycket att jobba på.
(f) Australien har mycket att jobba på (.) tycker jag.
Note that in the Swedish examples ((b)–(d)) and (f), where the comment clause is in an IU-ﬁnal
or IU-medial position, the word order of the comment clause is sensitive to the syntactic rule of
V2, common to many Germanic languages.
Tables 12.2–12.4 present the distribution across IU positions in the English, French7
and
Swedish data. It can be seen that the great majority occurred in IU-initial position for all three
languages. The patterning then differs slightly per language and per comment clause, but with the
exception of the two Swedish expressions, the other comment clauses all favour IU-separate
position over the other two positions. The French and English comment clauses show a similar
distribution across IU-ﬁnal and IU-medial position.
In the Swedish data, over 50% of the occurrences are found in IU-initial position, and around
25% of the occurrences are in medial position. The IU-ﬁnal and IU-separate instances together
make up around a ﬁfth of the instances. It seems clear that the most common IU environment
for Swedish comment clauses is at the beginning or middle of the IU. It is noteworthy that that
the two comment clauses, jag tycker and jag tror, show an almost identical distribution in
IU-initial and IU-medial position, while they seem to behave very differently in the IU-ﬁnal and
IU-separate positions, where jag tycker is as common as a separate IU as it is in IU-ﬁnal
7
Unless stated otherwise, all references to je pense, je crois and je trouve also refer to the inclusion of
the subordinator que (‘that’) where this is syntactically obligatory at the beginning of a proposition in
standard European French, i.e. je pense que, je crois que and je trouve que. We would therefore
normally expect to see que following the expression in IU- initial position (as in example (a) above), but
not usually in IU-medial, -ﬁnal or -separate position (although this is possible in the case of truncated or
interrupted speech).
278 Kerry Mullan and Susanna Karlsson
position, while jag tror only occurs in an IU-ﬁnal position twice, i.e. in around 2.5% of the total
occurrences.
The distribution of comment clauses in Swedish differs from that of English and French in that
the Swedish speakers make much more frequent use of the IU-medial position. This warrants a
comment. An overwhelming majority – all but a few cases – of the instances in IU-medial position
are of the type (b) above, i.e. the comment clause precedes the ﬁnite verb. Most of the instances do
not have a content word in initial position, but rather the pro term det ‘it/that’. Typically, this
occurs in instances that are responsive to what has been said in a previous utterance by another
speaker. Compare below:
det tycker jag också
that think I too
‘I think so too’
Table 12.2. Distribution of comment clauses within the IU of Australian English
IU-initial IU-medial IU-ﬁnal IU-separate Total
I think 192 (68%) 16 (6%) 19 (7%) 54 (19%) 281
Table 12.3. Distribution of comment clauses within the IU of French
IU-initial IU-medial IU-ﬁnal IU-separate Total
je pense 75 (56%) 6 (4.5%) 22 (16.5%) 30 (22.5%) 133
je crois 26 (72%) 3 (8.5%) 3 (8.5%) 4 (11%) 36
je trouve 35 (60%) 8 (13%) 7 (12%) 9 (15%) 59
Table 12.4. Distribution of comment clauses within the IU of Swedish
IU-initial IU-medial IU-ﬁnal IU-separate Total
jag tycker 37 (53.5%) 17 (24.5%) 7 (10%) 8 (11.5%) 69
jag tror 44 (53.5%) 21 (25.5%) 15 (18.5%) 2 (2.5%) 82
Subjectivity in contrast 279
This and similar constructions are very frequent in the Swedish data, which accounts for the
comparatively higher frequency of IU-medial comment clauses in the Swedish data. It also accounts
for why the IU-initial position is more frequent in English and French data: while the above
example is syntactically possible in English and French, this particular word order is in fact quite
rare, and did not occur in the data. Equivalent examples of I think so too were coded as IU-separate
in the English and French data. Instances of (c) are also practically non-existent in all the data, and
(e) did not occur at all (see earlier discussion regarding the validity of the constructed examples).
5. FUNCTIONS
In this analysis we refer to the organisational, semantic and pragmatic functions of the relevant
comment clauses in discourse. These are outlined below:
– Organisational
 to mark a boundary in discourse, e.g. to initiate a topic, frame a side sequence, or to
sum up in discourse
 to mark a new or different perspective from the prior turn (or speaker)
 for online planning
 to mark ﬁnality to a proposition (IU-ﬁnal position)
 to signal turn completion and pursue speaker response (turn-ﬁnal position)
– Semantic (expression of opinion/level of certainty)
– Pragmatic (face-saving)
The prosody of these comment clauses as organisational discourse markers typically involves
acceleration and phonological reduction. This is because the focus is not on the personalisation of
the comment clause itself, but on what follows.
Where the comment clause displays level stress and no reduction, this typically indicates that the
expression of opinion is the primary function. Where there is a fall-rise intonation, the primary
function of the comment clause is to indicate some uncertainty as to the veracity of the proposition.
Examples (1)–(7) below illustrate occurrences of the comment clauses under analysis in all
intonation unit positions and with all the functions discussed above across the three languages.
Examples (1) and (2) are from the Australian English conversations; (3) to (5) from the French
corpus and (6) and (7) from the Swedish corpus.
Example (1). IU-medial; semantic: expression of opinion
The ﬁrst example illustrates an occurrence of I think in intonation unit medial position marking
a connection between the interlocutor’s prior utterance and the speaker’s own opinion on that
remark.
280 Kerry Mullan and Susanna Karlsson
1 Kerry: . . . and not just living in your own little world. ¼
2 Lisa: ¼ ^yea:h, and I -- I -- that is one thing I think
3 Australians do tend to, to do a bit.
4 Kerry: mm.
5 Lisa: and if I could change one thing about Australia, it
6 would be to make us a bit more aware of [everyone,]
7 Fiona [yeah.]
8 Lisa: rather than just ourselves.
In this example, the participants had been asked to talk about which qualities they thought
made up a ‘good’ person, and had been talking about empathy towards other people prior to this
extract. Following the researcher’s contribution Lisa says yeah, and I -- I -- in line 2, displaying
her agreement. It is possible that she was going to place I think here, before that is one thing
Australians do tend to, to do a bit in lines 2/3, which would also have been a valid way of
marking her stance. However, Lisa restarted, to instead say that is one thing prior to I think. This
may have been for emphatic effect, or simply a case of an extra piece of information or dimension
coming to mind. In either scenario it also shows some self repair and online planning, and marks a
connection with the prior intonation unit that is one thing, before expressing her opinion with
I think Australians do tend to, to do a bit. The intonation on I think is level and equally stressed
here, indicating that the primary function here is to express an opinion, although Lisa mitigates
this somewhat by the hedges one thing, tend to, and a bit.
There were only thirteen examples of IU-medial I think in the data used to express speaker
opinion in this way; this represents 5% of the total instances in the corpus.
Example (2). IU-separate; organisational: marking ﬁnality and turn completion
The following example illustrates one of sixteen examples (less than 6% of the data) of
intonation unit-separate I think with an organisational role, in this case appearing turn-ﬁnally and
looking backward in the data. The primary functions of I think in this position are to mark ﬁnality,
signal turn completion and pursue interlocutor response. The example occurs in an extended
answer sequence in a discussion on Hitler, between Heather and Marie.
1 Heather: mm. yeah. it’s scary to see what can happen. in a --
2 in a community.
3 Marie: mm.
4 Heather: that though so many of the Germans, I understand,
5 ^didn’t a),8
didn’t know the full extent of what was
6 going on, and were ^scared, and didn’t want to, I
7 mean they were like u- ^us, and it could ^happen.
8
The speaker was going to mention two points: (a) and (b).
Subjectivity in contrast 281
8 and we could react that same way. that’s the ^scary
9 bit. (0.4) I think.
10 Marie: well I would say that now it happened. . . .. . . .
From this example we can see how Heather sums up her turn with that’s the scary bit (lines 8/
9) with an intonation contour indicating completion. She follows this with I think (after a slight
pause), again with a completed intonation contour. This is an example of a same-speaker
continuation here when there is no interlocutor uptake; it is clear that this I think again signals turn
completion, at which point Marie does indeed take over. The prosody here indicates an expression
of opinion here; I think is unreduced and receives equal emphasis.
Such instances of IU-separate I think are examples of what Schegloff (1996) refers to as turn
increments and post-completion stance markers. He distinguishes between the two, deﬁning turn
increments as ‘‘elements of talk [ . . . ] which constitute extensions to the TCU (Turn
Constructional Unit) or the turn [ . . . ] and which themselves come to another possible
completion of the TCU or the turn’’ (pp. 90–92). These turn increments are not grammatically
independent units, but follow on from the grammatical construction of the prior TCU
(Schegloff, 1996, p. 90), as well as from a point of prosodic completion (Walker, 2004, p. 147).
I think in the above example can be considered a grammatically dependent complement to the
prior utterance that’s the scary bit, which then constitutes another possible completion point. As
there is a pause of 0.4 seconds before I think is uttered, this can be considered a post-gap
increment (as opposed to a next-beat increment or post-other-speaker-talk increment) (Schegloff,
2000; Walker, 2004, p. 150).
Walker’s phonetic analysis of increments shows how pitch, volume, rate of articulation, and
other particular articulatory characteristics all illustrate increments as being continuations of their
host; this is done either by ‘‘redoing’’ the intonation contour of the ﬁnal foot of the host, or by
‘‘reshaping’’ it (Walker, 2004, pp. 153–154). It seems that the former is the case here; the rise-fall
patterning of scary bit is repeated in I think. In this case I think is also an example of Schegloff’s
post-completion stance marker, which represents retrospective alignment towards the prior talk
(Schegloff, 1996, pp. 90, 92). (Another example of this is illustrated in the Swedish example 7.)
Example (3). IU-initial; semantic: expression of opinion/uncertainty
In the following example of intonation unit-initial je pense, the speaker indicates some uncer-
tainty as to the veracity of the proposition. I have asked the participants what dogmatique means.
1 Kerry: et c’est c
-a être dogmatique?
2 Céline: (2.0) euh .(.) être dogmatique, non je pense pas que
3 c
-a soit c
-a en fait. pour moi dogmatique c’est plutôt,
4 avoir des -- des idées préconc
-ues? peut-être. et pas
vouloir changer? non? ou (0.3)
282 Kerry Mullan and Susanna Karlsson
5 Kerry: mm mm.
6 Céline: [avoir des dogmes?]
.
.
7 Céline: @@. non donc j’ai pas ??. non mais je pense que
8 dogmatique en fait, (H) c’est avoir une --. un style
9 de vie qui corresponde à, (0.3) qui correspond,
10 Bernadette: mm.
11 Céline: eu::h (0.3) à certains dogmes, par exemple euh,
12 (0.3) euh quand on est catho[lique okay on a --. on
13 a le (.). un]
13 Bernadette: [une certaine croyance.
14 (0.3) mm.]
15 Céline: style de vie qui correspond [euh,]
16 Bernadette: [ouais.]
17 Céline: je pense que [c’est c
-a.]
18 Bernadette: [ouais.]
19 Céline: mais je suis pas certaine non plus.
1 Kerry: and is that what being dogmatic means?
2 Céline: (2.0) er (.) being dogmatic, no I don’t think it’s
3 that in fact. for me dogmatic is more, having
4 pre- preconceived ideas? maybe. and not wanting
5 to change? isn’t it? or (0.3)
6 Kerry: mm mm.
7 Céline: [having dogmas?]
.
.
8 Céline: @@. no so I don’t have ?? {a dictionary}. no but
9 je pense que dogmatique in fact, (H) it’s when you
10 have a --. a lifestyle that corresponds to, (0.3)
11 which corresponds,
12 Bernadette: mm.
13 Céline: er:: (0.3) to certain dogmas, for example er, (0.3) er
14 if you’re Catho[lic okay you have --. you have the
15 (.) a]
16 Bernadette: [a certain belief. (0.3) mm.]
17 Céline: lifestyle that corresponds [er,]
18 Bernadette: [yeah.]
19 Céline: je pense que [it’s that.]
Subjectivity in contrast 283
20 Bernadette: [yeah.]
21 Céline: but I’m not certain either.
The researcher’s initial question follows a discussion on expressing opinions; Bernadette has
said that some people will not listen to others’ opinions, which means that there can be no
exchange. Following an initial two-second pause, Céline replies in the negative, saying in lines
2/3 that she does not think that dogmatic means that. Her hesitation in the second pair part of this
adjacency pair indicates consideration of her reply (already indicating some possible uncertainty).
Céline goes on to say what dogmatique means for her (pour moi, line 3), thus illustrating the
subjectivity of her response at this point. The following four instances of rising intonation and the
tag question non? ‘isn’t it?’ suggest that she is not putting this deﬁnition forward as a deﬁnitive
answer, acknowledging that others may have a different idea as to the meaning of this word. There
then follows twelve to ﬁfteen seconds of a side sequence where Bernadette says that she would
like to know the exact deﬁnition of dogmatique and asks if Céline has a dictionary. Céline says
that it was too heavy to bring with her to Australia, and following the laughter the topic of
dogmatique is taken up again in line 7 with the topic changing mais (‘but’); Céline continues with
her explanation of dogmatique.
The context surrounding the second instance of je pense in this extract (line 17) illustrates that
Céline is expressing a degree of doubt as to the exact deﬁnition, and her next utterance explicitly
conﬁrms her lack of certainty on this point. The topic here is one which can be both subjective and
objective. It is therefore clear that with this instance of je pense Céline is expressing her opinion,
while at the same time indicating some uncertainty as to the exact deﬁnition of dogmatique.
The most frequent function of IU-initial je pense in the data was that of expressing speaker
opinion. Contrary to the case of IU-initial I think (where only 19% of the data primarily expressed
speaker opinion), there were forty-six instances of IU-initial je pense used to express an opinion:
35% of the total corpus.
Example (4). IU-initial, IU-ﬁnal; Organisational: framing a side sequence
The following example illustrates an IU-initial je pense and an IU-ﬁnal je crois used to mark a
boundary in discourse, namely to frame a side sequence. In this conversation Pauline and Vincent
have been discussing how they feel towards France.
1 Vincent: ouais c’est bizarre les (.) les rapports qu’on peut
2 avoir avec les Franc
-ais. c’est-à-dire que quand on
3 est sur le territoire franc
-ais, enﬁn moi j’habite à
4 Paris et c’est la ville la plus, je pense la plus
5 stressée de de France je crois, et je m’en suis mis
6 quand je conduis par exemple à haı̈r le Franc
-ais
7 moyen quoi . . .. . . .
284 Kerry Mullan and Susanna Karlsson
1 Vincent: yeah it’s weird the (.) the connections that you can
2 have with the French. that’s to say that when you’re
3 in France, well I live in Paris and it’s the most, je
4 pense the most stressed city in in France je crois,
5 and when I drive for example I’ve started to hate the
6 average French person . . .. . . .
This is a very interesting example in that je pense and je crois occur within the same intonation
unit (lines 4/5), and was the only instance in the data where this happened. Vincent is talking
about the French and France, and initiates a side sequence about living in Paris with enﬁn (‘well’)
in line 3. He starts to say that it is the most stressed city in France in lines 4/5, but he stops after la
plus (‘the most’), to add je pense-marking this claim as his opinion only, rather than making a
factual statement – then repeats la plus (‘the most’) and continues with his utterance. He then
terminates this side sequence with je crois in line 5, before going back to talking about the French,
their driving, and other related topics. Both instances of je pense and je crois are level and
unreduced here, thereby expressing Vincent’s opinion, as well as playing the organisational role of
framing a side sequence.
Example (5). IU-separate; organisational: marking ﬁnality and turn completion
We will now look at an example of IU-separate je trouve used to mark ﬁnality and turn
completion. Irène and Guillaume have been discussing the use of informal and formal personal
pronouns tu and vous (‘you’) in French.
1 Guillaume: . . .. . . je sais toujours que dans le travail
il y a une euh, (0.3)
3 Irène: mais c
-a j’allais te demander, t’as
4 l’impression [que –]
5 Guillaume: [un truc] à ne pas franchir.
6 [une limite à pas franchir,]
7 Irène: [mais c
-a j’allais te demander,] t’as
8 l’impression qu’en passant du tu – enﬁn
9 du vous au tu, tu (0.3) tu (.) tu perds un
10 peu cette notion de respect? moi j’
11 [trouve.] v̇
12 Guillaume: [non] c’est pas une notion de respect,
13 . . .. . .
1 Guillaume: . . .. . . I know that at work there’s always
2 a er, (0.3)
Subjectivity in contrast 285
3 Irène: but that’s what I wanted to ask you, do
4 you think [that --]
5 Guillaume: [a thing] that can’t be crossed.
6 [a line that can’t be crossed,]
7 Irène: [but that’s what I was going to ask you,]
8 do you think that by moving from tu -- I
9 mean from vous to tu, you (0.3) you (.)
10 you lose that notion of respect a bit? 1moi
11 j’[trouve.]1
12 Guillaume: [no] it’s not a question of respect, . . .
Here we see Irène attempt to ask Guillaume his opinion in lines 3/4, and again successfully in
lines 7–10. After asking him whether he feels that by moving from vous to tu means that you lose
a notion of respect, she ﬁnishes her question with an IU-separate moi j’trouve in lines 10/11. As well
as clearly marking this as her answer to her own question to Guillaume and inviting him to offer his
own (perhaps differing) point of view, the falling intonation contour marks ﬁnality and turn
completion. Irène is inviting interlocutor response, as she waits for Guillaume to answer the
question she has just put to him, which he does immediately – in fact overlapping Irène’s ﬁnal
trouve, as he recognises the role of this instance of je trouve and its intonation. The prosody of moi
j’trouve is reduced and quiet, indicating an organisational discourse marker.
This use of moi (‘me’) in front of the subject pronoun je is extremely common in French
conversation. It has the effect of emphasising the subject pronoun, thereby asserting the speaker’s
position, and corresponds to something like ‘this is what I think’, which is used much less often
in English. André-Larochebouvy (1984) refers to moi, je as a ‘‘prototype’’ of the kind of
signals which differentiate and mark a distance, designed to point out the speciﬁcity of the speaker
(p. 152).
There were a total of nine instances of IU-separate je trouve (or 15% of the data), all of which
were found to have organisational roles. Like je pense and je crois, je trouve appeared most
frequently in IU-separate position (following IU-initial), but with a relatively low occurrence.
Example (6). IU-ﬁnal; semantic: marking uncertainty; organisational: marking ﬁnality and
turn completion
The next example illustrates the multifunctionality of comment clauses.
1 Midwife: va ^vä::gde du ksjälv 1nä du mföddes?1
2 Patient: när ja föddes?
3 Midwife: ma:m
4 Patient: fyra å’tt ^halt kilo.
5 Midwife: aha. å din ^man kanske också va?
6 Patient: nä han vägde tre å:: (.) sju tror ja,
286 Kerry Mullan and Susanna Karlsson
7 Midwife: de ju inget litet.
8 Patient: näh
1 Midwife: what did you yourkself ^weigh 1when you were1
2 mborn?1
3 Patient: when I was born?
4 Midwife: myeah:m
5 Patient: four ‘n a ^half kilos.
6 Midwife: uhu. and your ^husband too yeah?
7 Patient: nah he weighed three poi::nt (.) seven tror ja,
8 Midwife: that’s not so little.
9 Patient: no
In this interaction between a midwife and a pregnant woman, the speakers have been
discussing the size of the fetus, and how big the child can be expected to be at birth. The question
arises because the woman is very small: a large baby might cause difﬁculties at childbirth. In order
to establish hereditary patterns, the midwife asks how much the prospective mother and father
weighed at birth (lines 1 and 5). The pregnant woman answers the question about her own weight
at birth without much hesitation; even if she cannot be held accountable for remembering the
event herself, there is still a chance that she has access to records and storytellings about her own
birth. The follow-up question about her husband’s birth weight, however, is answered in a
somewhat different fashion. Where the ﬁrst response, in line 4, is direct and without hesitations,
the second, in line 6, contains not only hesitation, but also a comment clause, tror jag. Here, the
woman cannot be held accountable to the same degree: it is unlikely in the extreme that she was
present at her husband’s birth. The brief pause within the numeral three point seven and the
lengthening of point, indicates that it is not the number of kilograms that is in question, but rather
the number of hectograms. She closes her response with a ﬁnal comment clause that refers
speciﬁcally to the seven part of the utterance, further underlining her uncertainty about her
husband’s exact birth weight. The comment clause also underlines that the proposition is to be
heard as closed: there will be no elaboration or alternative suggestions to replace seven. The
midwife’s comment follows at an established rhythm, without pause or hesitation, indicating that
she has heard the pregnant woman’s utterance as ﬁnished.
Here, the multifunctionality of the comment clauses becomes apparent. Prosody and hesitation
signals that the comment clause operates locally on seven – that is the part of the utterance that is
in doubt. But the comment clause also operates on the entire utterance on a global level, marking
the proposition as complete and opening up the ﬂoor for the other speaker.
In Swedish, this is a comparatively widespread use for jag tror, whereas jag tycker rarely is
used like this. Almost a ﬁfth of the instances of jag tror occur in this position, but only a tenth of
the instances of jag tycker occur in this position with these functions. On the other hand, jag tror
Subjectivity in contrast 287
very rarely occurs in the IU-separate position, a position which is, by comparison, common for
jag tycker. We shall see an illustration of this in the next example, which also contains an IU-
initial jag tycker.
Example (7). IU-initial, IU-separate; Semantic: marking uncertainty, organisational:
marking ﬁnality and turn completion, pragmatic: face-saving
In the next example, a group of teenagers have been asked to give their opinions on different
musical styles. A few minutes before the extract below, they listened to a song by the
contemporary Swedish indie pop group Kent, and the discussion has led to a point where some of
the participants have claimed to like the group’s music, while some are more hesitant. Bea is the
researcher, who moderates the discussion.
1 Dan: nä:e: Welle jao. (.) de beror på (.) ^vissa låtar kan va bra
2 men (0.3) de ^mesta gillar ja inte. ¼
3 Adam: ¼ jo men: Wja tycker nogo Wde går no:go å ^lyssna på men
4 (.) ^Jumper e väl (0.7) strået ^vassare Wi såna fallo
5 Bea: mm[:.]
6 Adam: [äv]en fall de inte ^e så stor skillnad på dom.
7 (0.6)
8 Wtycke jao.
9 (0.3)
10 Bea: mm¿
11 (1.8)
12 pt .hh varför eh: ni som inte tycker
13 ^om dom då (.) va ^ä dä som inte ä–
1 Dan: nah: Wor yeaho (.) it depends (.) ^some songs can be good
2 but (0.3) ^most I don’t like ¼
3 Adam: ¼ yeah but:Wja tycker probablyo Wit’s pro:bably alright to
4 ^listen to but (.) ^Jumper is probably (0.7)a tad ^better Win
5 that caseo
6 Bea: mm[:.]
7 Adam: [ev]en though they’re ^pretty similar.
8 (0.6)
9 Wtycke jao.
10 (0.3)
11 Bea: mm¿
12 (1.8)
13 pt .hh why eh: you who don’t ^like
14 them then (.) what ^is it that isn’t--
288 Kerry Mullan and Susanna Karlsson
Here, Adam expresses the opinion that Kent is ‘‘alright’’, but that the rivaling band, Jumper, is
somewhat better. In the previous discourse, speaker Dan has expressed his rather negative opinion
of the band. Now that Adam expresses his opinion, he frames it as a stance that differs from that of
Dan, not only by the use of jo men (‘yeah but’), that clearly marks contrast, but also by using the
IU-initial comment clause jag tycker. By doing this, he clearly marks his utterance as not simply
an addendum to Adam’s opinion, but rather as an opinion that is his own, one that the other
speakers need not necessarily agree with.
In the course of his utterance, Adam experiences some difﬁculties at handing over the turn.
The ﬁrst point of possible turn transition occurs at the end of line 4. Here, Adam has made his
opinion clear: Kent are alright, but Jumper are better. None of the other participants self-select:
the only hearable response is from the moderator, Bea, and only minimal at that. No one
challenges Adam’s opinion, but it is not endorsed either. As a result of no other speaker taking
over the turn, Adam continues speaking, somewhat moderating his previous stance by adding that
the two bands are very similar in style. This is followed by a comparatively long pause, but –
again – no speaker change. Here, in line 8, Adam adds an IU-separate comment clause that
functions both as a marker that this is Adam’s opinion – the others need not agree, but also
effectively closes his turn, clearly signalling that Adam has said all that he intends to say on the
subject. The remarkably long silence that follows the comment clause before Bea goes on to
moderate the discussion, clearly indicates that even if no one else volunteers to take the turn,
Adam has no intention of elaborating further.
Here, the IU-separate comment clause not only marks the utterance as the speaker’s own
opinion, allowing for other speakers to give their opinions without anyone losing face, but also
facilitating for the speaker to hand over the turn and his speaker rights and obligations.
As in example 2 above, the second comment clause in example 7 is a post-gap increment
(Schegloff, 2000) and post-completion stance marker (Schegloff, 1996, pp. 90, 92). Here, just as
in the English example, the ﬁnal intonation of the host utterance is repeated in the comment
clause. In the Swedish example, the comment clause’s grammatical dependency of the host is
shown by the inverted word order of the comment clause.
6. CONCLUSION
In this study we have shown that, although the frequencies of occurrences of mental state verb
comment clauses differ across the three languages examined here (with I think occurring three
times more often in conversation than the next most popular comment clause – je pense), some of
their characteristics recur across English, French and Swedish.
In all three languages, the comment clauses revealed themselves to be multifunctional; they all
function as a means to make relevant organisational cues, as pragmatic markers and carriers of
Subjectivity in contrast 289
semantic information. In the discussion of the examples above, we have shown that the comment
clauses are multifunctional more often than not. Even if one functional aspect may appear to be
stronger in the individual case, it is almost impossible to rule out the others completely. This is the
strength of the comment clauses, in that it makes them very useful and allows for them to occur in
so many different interactional environments.
Which function is the strongest or most readily identiﬁable in each example, however, is
dependent on the position of the comment clause within the IU. Comment clauses in IU-initial
position and in IU-ﬁnal position are often organisational in nature: they function as utterance
frames, both as a means to initiate a proposition, thus signalling to co-participants how it is to be
heard, and as a way to close an IU, signalling the end of the stretch of talk that is to be interpreted
as semantically less supported by the speaker.
The IU-separate position is predominantly organisational too; it tends to be a so-called turn
increment, adding more talk to an already functionally completed utterance. It reproduces a
possibility for other speakers to take up the turn, without any of the involved speakers losing face.
IU position also inﬂuences the level of semantic meaning associated to the comment clause.
When the comment clauses occur in initial and medial position, they carry more of a mental state
semantic meaning than when they occur in a ﬁnal or separate position.
If we transfer the information provided in tables 2 to 4 above into a bar chart (Figure 12.1), the
distribution of IU positions for the comment clauses under examination becomes very clear, and
reveals some interesting similarities and differences across the three languages.
0.0%
10.0%
20.0%
30.0%
40.0%
50.0%
60.0%
70.0%
80.0%
I think je pense je crois je trouve jag tycker jag tror
IU-initial IU-medial IU-final IU-separate
Figure 12.1. Distribution of comment clauses across the IU in Australian English, French and
Swedish (in percentages).
290 Kerry Mullan and Susanna Karlsson
It is noteworthy that I think and je pense seem to behave more alike than je pense and the other
French comment clauses. Both I think and je pense predominantly occur in IU-initial position, but
are also comparatively frequent as IU-separate clauses. This should be compared to je trouve and
je crois. They behave similarly to one another, with the initial position as the most frequent one,
and more or less equal distribution between the other three positions. As for jag tycker and jag
tror, Swedish seems to be the language that stands out the most from the rest in this study. Here,
unlike in the other languages, the IU-medial position is comparatively frequent, most likely
because of the V2 rule in Germanic languages (which interestingly, does not apply to English).
Looking at the distribution between IU-ﬁnal and IU-separate positions, jag tycker behaves much
like je trouve and je crois, while jag tror stands out among the comment clauses studied here in
that it is difﬁcult to ﬁnd examples of it at all occurring in IU-separate position.
Common to all three languages, however, is that IU-initial position is the unmarked position.
To further this study of the relationship between the forms, functions and distribution of
comment clauses in languages that are more or less closely related to each other, more languages
would need to be added to the study.
TRANSCRIPTION CONVENTIONS
(based on Du Bois et al.,1993; Jefferson, 1994)
. ﬁnal intonation contour
, continuing intonation contour
? appeal intonation contour
¿ very gently rising intonation contour
k falling pitch
m rising pitch
-- truncated intonation unit
wou- truncated word
[ ] overlapping speech
¼ latching speech
LOUD increased volume
1soft voice1 decreased volume
Wfasto increased speed
oslow W decreased speed
^ primary accent
(H) inhalation
(Hx) exhalation
Subjectivity in contrast 291
(.) break in rhythm (0.2 seconds or less)
(1.0) time intervals over 0.3 seconds
. . . .. extraneous data/quotation omitted
the::n lengthened sound or syllable
fg researcher’s comments (to provide more context or background information useful
to the reader)
. transcript omitted
.
REFERENCES
Aijmer, K. (1997). I think: An English modal particle. In T. Swan & O. J. Westvik (Eds.), Modality in
Germanic languages: Historical and comparative perspectives (pp. 1–47). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Aijmer, K. (1998). Epistemic predicates in contrast. In S. Johansson & S. Oksefjell (Eds.), Corpora and cross-
linguistic research: Theory, method and case studies (pp. 277–295). Amsterdam: Rodopi.
André-Larochebouvy, D. (1984). Introduction à l’analyse sémio-linguistique de la conversation. Paris: Crédif.
Bardovi-Harlig, K., & Hartford, B. S. (1992). Spontaneous conversations, institutional talk, and interlanguage
pragmatics research. Paper presented at the Paciﬁc Second Language Research Forum, July. Sydney.
Biber, D., Johansson, S., Leech, G. C., & Finegan, E. (1999). Longman grammar of spoken and written
English. Harlow: Longman.
Brinton, L. J. (1996). Pragmatic markers in English: Grammaticalization and discourse functions. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Brinton, L. J. (2008). The comment clause in English. Syntactic origins and pragmatic developments.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Brown, P., & Levinson, S. C. (1987). Politeness: Some universals in language usage. Cambride: Cambridge
University Press.
Chafe, W. (1993). Prosodic and functional units of language. In J. A. Edwards & M. D. Lampert (Eds.),
Talking data: Transcription and coding in research (pp. 33–43). London: Lawrence Erlbaum
Associates.
Dahl, S. (2000). Egophoricity in discourse and syntax. Functions of Language, 7(1), 37–77.
Dehé, N., & Kavalova, Y. (2007). Parentheticals. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Du Bois, J. W., Schuetze-Coburn, S., Cumming, S., & Paolino, D. (1993). Outline of discourse transcription.
In J.A.Edwards&M.D.Lampert(Eds.),Talkingdata:Transcription andcodinginresearch (pp.45–89).
London: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Fitzmaurice, S. (2004). Subjectivity, intersubjectivity and the historical construction of interlocutor stance:
From stance markers to discourse markers. Discourse Studies, 6(4), 427–448.
Goffman, E. (1967). Interaction ritual: Essays on face to face behavior. New York, NY: Anchor.
Gumperz, J. J. (1982). Discourse strategies. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Gumperz, J. J. (1992). Contextualization and understanding. In A. Duranti & C. Goodwin (Eds.), Rethinking
context. Language as interactive phenomenon (pp. 229–252). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
292 Kerry Mullan and Susanna Karlsson
Gumperz, J. J. (1995). Mutual inferencing in conversation. In I. Marková, C. Graumann & K. Foppa (Eds.),
Mutualities in dialogue (pp. 101–123). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Gumperz, J. J. (2001). Interactional Sociolinguistics: A personal perspective. In D. Schiffrin, D. Tannen &
H. E. Hamilton (Eds.), The handbook of discourse analysis (pp. 214–228). Oxford: Blackwell.
Hansen, M.-J. M. (1997). Alors and donc in spoken French: A reanalysis. Journal of Pragmatics, 28,
153–187.
Heine, B. (2003). Grammaticalization. In B. D. Joseph & R. D. Janda (Eds.), The handbook of historical
linguistics (pp. 575–601). Oxford: Blackwell.
Horvath, B. (1985). Variation in Australian English: The sociolects of Sydney. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Jefferson, G. (1994). Conversation analysis transcription. ARAL Series, S11, 185–191.
Kaltenböck, G. (2008). Prosody and function of English comment clauses. Folia Linguistica, 42(1), 83–134.
Kaltenböck, G. (2009a). Is that a ﬁller? On complementizer use in spoken object clauses. Vienna English
Working Papers, 18(1), 28–63.
Kaltenböck, G. (2009b). Initial I think: Main or comment clause? Discourse and interaction, 2(1), 49–70.
Karlsson, S. (2006). Positioneringsfraser i interaktion, Institutionen för svenska språket. Göteborg: Göteborgs
universitet.
Kärkkäinen, E. (2003). Epistemic stance in English conversation. A description of its interactional functions,
with a focus on I think. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kärkkäinen, E. (2006). Stance taking in conversation: From subjectivity to intersubjectivity. Text & Talk,
26(6), 699–731.
Mullan, K. (2007). Cultural differences in the expression of opinion: A comparison of interactional strategies
in French and Australian English discourse. Doctoral dissertation. Department of Linguistics, La
Trobe University, Australia.
Mullan, K. (2010). Expressing opinions in French and Australian English discourse: A semantic and
interactional analysis. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Povolná, R. (2005). On some I-oriented comment clauses as response elicitors in spoken English. In Discourse
and interaction (Vol. 1). Brno seminar on Linguistic Studies in English: Proceedings 2005, Masaryk
University in Brno.
Sacks, H., Schegloff, E. A., & Jefferson, G. (1974). A simplest systematics for the organization of turn-taking
for conversation. Language, 50(4), 696–735.
Schegloff, E. A. (1996). Turn organization: One intersection of grammar and interaction. In E. Ochs,
E. A. Schegloff & S. A. Thompson (Eds.), Interaction and grammar (pp. 52–133). Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Schegloff, E. A. (2000). On turns’ possible completion more or less: Increments and trail-offs. Paper presented
at the EuroConference on interactional linguistics. Spa, Belgium.
Schneider, S. (2007). Reduced parenthetical clauses as mitigators: A corpus study of spoken French, Italian
and Spanish. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Thompson, S. A., & Mulac, A. (1991). A quantitative perspective on the grammaticization of epistemic
parentheticals in English. In E. C. Traugott & B. Heine (Eds.), Approaches to grammaticalization
(pp. 313–339). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Traugott, E. (1995). Subjectiﬁcation in grammaticalisation. In D. Stein & S. Wright (Eds.), Subjectivity and
subjectivisation: Linguistic perspectives (pp. 31–54). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Traugott, E. (2003). Constructions in grammaticalization. In B. D. Joseph & R. D. Janda (Eds.), The handbook
of historical linguistics (pp. 624–647). Oxford: Blackwell.
Subjectivity in contrast 293
Travis, C. E. (2004). Subjetivización de construcciones: Los verbos ‘cognitivos’ en el español conversaciona.
Paper presented at the VIII Encuentro Internacional de Lingüı́stica en el Noroeste, Universidad de
Sonora, Hermosillo, Mexico.
Travis, C. E. (2005). Discourse markers in Colombian Spanish: A study in polysemy. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Urmson, J. O. (1952). Parenthetical verbs. Mind, 61, 480–496.
Walker, G. (2004). On some interactional and phonetic properties of increments to turns in talk-in-interaction.
In E. Couper-Kuhlen & C. E. Ford (Eds.), Sound patterns in interaction: Cross-linguistic studies from
conversation (pp. 147–169). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
294 Kerry Mullan and Susanna Karlsson
Subjectivity in Language and in Discourse
Edited by Nicole Baumgarten, Inke Du Bois and Juliane House
r 2012 by Emerald Group Publishing Limited. All rights reserved.
13
HEDGING IN GERMAN AND RUSSIAN CONFERENCE
PRESENTATIONS: A CROSS-CULTURAL VIEW
Anna Breitkopf-Siepmann
1. INTRODUCTION: WHAT IS HEDGING?
In academic communication hedging is regarded as an important discourse strategy which
helps authors to avoid categorical statements, and thus to be less vulnerable to potential criticism.
The term ‘hedge’ was introduced by Lakoff (1972, p. 195), who called hedges ‘‘words whose job
is to make things fuzzier or less fuzzy’’; an example is the expression sort of in a sentence like A
penguin is sort of a bird. Since Lakoff’s seminal article the notion of hedging as a means of
modifying the truth of an utterance has been developed and reﬁned in a large number of studies,
with researchers focusing not only on the semantic, but also on the pragmatic aspects of hedging
(e.g. Crismore & Van de Kopple, 1997; Hyland, 1998; Kreutz & Harres, 1997; Prince, Frader, &
Bosk, 1982; Salager-Meyer, 1994). Hedging, expressed by the means of modal words and attitude
markers can be regarded as a form of subjectivity (e.g. Benveniste, 1966; Finegan, 1995).
One much-discussed theoretical problem is how hedges relate to such categories as epistemic
modality and politeness. According to Coates (1987, p. 112), epistemic modality ‘‘indicates the
speaker’s conﬁdence or lack of conﬁdence in the truth of the proposition expressed’’. Assuming
that hedges indicate an unwillingness of the speaker to make a direct commitment to the truth of a
proposition, Hyland (1998) regards hedging as a part of epistemic modality. Other researchers,
however, tend to criticize the idea that hedges come within the scope of epistemic modality,
although they can be expressed by means of modal words. They suggest that epistemic modality is
a category of semantics, whereas hedging, because of its communicative functions, is pragmatic
rather than semantic (Namsaraev, 1997; Vassileva, 1997). Hedging is a pragmatic category that
performs the ‘protective’ modiﬁcation of an utterance. The author is sure about the truth of the
utterance, but uses hedging to ward off potential criticism. In this view, hedging can be explained
in terms of the pragmatics of politeness, the basic underlying motive being face protection
(Brown & Levinson, 1987). To state a knowledge claim in an academic text means to commit a
face threatening act (FTA), and hedging, since it reduces the illocutionary force of an utterance, is
a means of avoiding FTAs.
Although the protective function of hedging is rather obvious, a view of hedging merely as a
politeness device is possible, too. This is because hedging is not always motivated by politeness
and is not always used for protective aims in the sense of avoiding an FTA. It is quite possible that
authors are really not sure about what they are saying or do not have sufﬁcient information
(knowledge, data) to make a categorical statement. In such cases, they hedge a proposition in
order to indicate that what they are saying is true only to a certain degree. Use of hedging in such
situations means that the author is unable to make a precise statement for some objective reason.
I agree with Mauranen (1997), who says that hedging cannot always be motivated by politeness,
and that there can be also other reasons for hedging a proposition. Mauranen distinguishes two
functions of hedging in academic writing: epistemic and interpersonal. Hedging in its epistemic
function is used when the author suggests that there is a certain openness in interpreting a state of
affairs. Hedging in its interpersonal function is a strategic device used to protect the author’s face.
The author may be sure about the propositional content of his or her statement but may present it
in a tentative manner in order to minimize possible criticism and to gain the reader’s acceptance
for his or her views. In that sense the interpersonal use of hedging can be understood in terms of
politeness. The problem arising in this model is that of attributing the epistemic or the
interpersonal function to each individual case of hedging. For Mauranen, it is the context which is
the crucial criterion in making this decision. However, in many cases, no sharp line can be drawn
between the two functions; hedging devices can be used in a more epistemic or more interpersonal
way. Mauranen therefore suggests a distinction between primarily epistemic and primarily
interpersonal use of hedging (1997, p. 121).
Previous studies indicate that the use of hedging can be culture speciﬁc, which has an impact
on the quality of academic texts produced in foreign languages. The analysis carried out by Bloor
and Bloor (1991) indicates that students with English as L2 use hedging differently from L1
(native) speakers of English. Many cross-cultural studies on hedging in academic communication
compare English as an academic lingua franca with other languages. Clyne (1991), analysing
English and German research articles in linguistics and sociology, states that German authors use
altogether more hedges than English authors. German scholars also tend to use more complex
hedging constructions and more agentless passives and impersonal constructions than English
scholars. Vassileva (1997) analysed linguistics texts by British, American and Bulgarian authors.
She found that Bulgarian authors use less hedging and prefer other hedging devices than
American and British authors. The hedging devices favoured by Bulgarians are modal adverbs
296 Anna Breitkopf-Siepmann
and adjectives, whereas British and American authors prefer modal and epistemic verbs. Trumpp
(1998) compared German, English and French texts in sports science. Her results differ from those
of Clyne; in her corpus, German and French authors use less hedging than English authors. A
comparison of hedging devices and their functions in other cultures, like e.g. in German and
Russian research articles in sociology (Breitkopf, 2005, 2006), also indicates culture-related
differences in frequencies, functions and preferences for different linguistic devices.
Another important factor inﬂuencing the frequency and forms of hedging is genre. Each genre
performs its own communicative function and addresses a certain type of audience, thus requiring
different formal criteria. Hyland (2005), comparing research articles, popular science articles and
textbooks in different disciplines, comes to the conclusion that the highest frequency of hedging
can be observed in research articles. This can be explained by the fact that research articles present
potentially disputable claims that can be easily criticized or rejected by reviewers, editors and
readers. By contrast, popular science articles contain fewer hedges and a higher proportion of
unmodiﬁed statements (Crismore & Farnsworth, 1990). In the case of popular science articles, in
which the presentation of new information is more important than argument, hedges would reduce
the value of statements, presented to a lay audience. Similarly, textbooks for undergraduate
students, which present accepted views in a systematic way, contain fewer hedges than research
articles (Hyland, 2005).
2. AIMS, CORPUS AND METHODS
This paper aims to study the linguistic devices associated with hedging and the frequency of
hedging in German and Russian conference presentations in sociology. One of my concerns will
therefore be with cross-cultural differences between German and Russian academic traditions.
Sociology is a special case in Russian humanities in that, during the Soviet era, it was not a
separate discipline but a subdiscipline of Marxist philosophy and economics. This meant that both
the content and the form of sociological writings were signiﬁcantly different from the norms
governing Western sociology. The assumption underlying this article is that the Russian
conference presentations retain some of the features of the Soviet academic tradition, so that any
potential differences may not merely be linguistic in nature, but also culture driven.
Another concern of the article is with the differences between particular types of oral and
written genres of academic discourse. This will primarily be an attempt to provide more
information on the features of the conference presentation as a genre which has received less
systematic treatment in the literature than the research article.
Thirty conference presentations in sociology were chosen for this study. Fifteen of these
presentations were held by German sociologists in German. Fifteen other presentations were held
by Russian sociologists in Russian. The speakers of both the German and the Russian conferences
Hedging in German and Russian conference presentations 297
were sociologists whose main academic activities took place in the German and in the Russian
scientiﬁc communities, respectively. All presentations analysed were held by single authors. The
German corpus contains 49,534 words; the Russian corpus contains 27,878 words. This
discrepancy is due to some features of the German and Russian language systems: German texts
generally contain more words than Russian texts.1
There are also some cultural differences in the
ways in which the German and the Russian conferences are organized. At the Russian
conferences, the time schedule was more ﬂexible, and the length of presentations was more
variable. The average duration of a German presentation was approximately 26 minutes. The
shortest German presentation lasted 17:39 minutes; the longest lasted 35:12 minutes. The
Russian conferences presentations were, on average, shorter; their average duration was
19 minutes. The longest Russian presentation lasted 46:03 and the shortest 07:15 minutes, but
these were exceptions rather than the rule. The conference presentations were audio recorded and
transcribed.
In addition to the oral corpus, the results based on a corpus of 30 German and 30 Russian
research articles in sociology have been taken into account (Breitkopf, 2005, 2006). The articles
analysed were written in German by German sociologists or in Russian by Russian sociologists.
The articles were published between 1992 and 1999 in well-established German or Russian
sociological journals. The total size of the German corpus is 222,489 words; the total size of the
Russian corpus is 147,335 words, which includes the complete texts of the articles with footnotes,
references and subheadings. The main headings, abstracts, tables and bibliography were excluded
from the count.
The discrepancy between the word counts for the German and the Russian presentations and
articles, resulting from the structural differences between two languages, made quantitative
analysis difﬁcult, because the number of running words contained in each corpus is relevant for
calculating a relative frequency per 10,000 words. In order to solve this problem, the same
weighting coefﬁcient of 1.26 was applied both to the conference presentations and to the research
articles. This weighting coefﬁcient, which indicates the difference between the number of words
in the German and Russian texts, was calculated by comparison of verbatim translations of the
Russian and German sociological articles (Breitkopf, 2006, pp. 26–27).
The subject of the analysis is hedging, i.e. words and expressions reducing the illocutionary
force of an utterance. If we take into account different approaches to hedging and its forms and
functions, we ﬁnd that the list of expressions that can be considered as hedges is rather open
(Markkanen & Schröder, 1997). In my analysis, I used a narrow deﬁnition of linguistic devices
that will be regarded as hedges. This deﬁnition takes account of stylistic and content features of
1
For example, Russian does not have deﬁnite or indeﬁnite articles. Subordinate clauses can be
expressed in Russian in the form of adverbial participles, which is not common in German. The Russian
auxiliary verb быть (‘to be’) is not explicitly used in present tense.
298 Anna Breitkopf-Siepmann
sociological texts as well as of the adapted deﬁnition of hedging as a discourse strategy with
epistemic or interpersonal function (Mauranen, 1997). The linguistic devices that will be analysed
as hedges in this paper can be divided into two main groups. The ﬁrst group consists of the
epistemic modal expressions:
– Modal verbs such as Russian мочь, должен, следует and German können, müssen,
dürfen (‘can’, ‘must’, ‘may’2
);
– parenthetical modal words and modal particles like Russian
очевидно, наверное, видимо, возможно, можетбыть and German offensich-
tlich, wahrscheinlich, vielleicht (‘obviously’, ‘probably’, ‘likely’, ‘perhaps’, ‘possibly’);
– intensiﬁers that semantically do not mitigate the illocutionary force of an utte-
rance but pragmatically make an utterance less categorical3
like Russian
конечно, разумеется, естественно, действительно, etc. and German natürlich,
selbstverständlich, sicherlich, wirklich, zweifellos, (‘of course’, ‘certainly’, ‘surely’, ‘truly’,
‘undoubtedly’). Some researchers like Hyland (2005) mark these as a separate category
(‘‘boosters’’); in this study, they will be regarded as hedges for the reasons presented above;
– nominal and adverbial phrases like Russian в действительности, вероятнее всего,
etc. and German in Wirklichkeit, mit Sicherheit, ohne Zweifel, (‘in reality’, ‘deﬁnitely’,
‘without doubt’);
– constructions with epistemical verbs like Russian кажется, представляетсяi,, etc.
and German scheinen, erscheinen (‘it seems’, ‘it appears’).
The second main group consists of expressions that function as hedges only in certain
constructions and in certain contexts. These expressions form a more peripheral group of hedges
in all the corpora. The following constructions belong to this group:
– Constructions containing the ﬁrst person singular and plural that express the author’s
personal views. Subjectivisation of an utterance is a strategy that allows to mitigate the
knowledge claim and to reduce possible criticism, and can therefore be considered as
hedging (Namsaraev, 1997, p. 68). These are constructions with the ﬁrst person singular
and plural like Russian я считаю, по нашему мнению, на мой взгляд and German
ich glaube, aus meiner Sicht, etc. (‘I believe’, ‘in our opinion’, ‘in my view’);
– tentative verb constructions presenting communicative intentions of the author as
an attempt, thus reducing the illocutionary force of the knowledge claim of the
2
The English translation applies to both the German and the Russian equivalents.
3
Lyons (1977, p. 809) suggests that ‘‘there is no epistemically stronger statement than a categorical’’.
This means that each modal expression, even an intensiﬁer like certainly or deﬁnitely will reduce the
illocutionary force of an utterance.
Hedging in German and Russian conference presentations 299
whole text or its parts; examples are Russian я хотел бы
обратить внимание, я хотел бы высказать следующий тезис (‘I would like
to draw attention to’, ‘I would like to make the following point’) and German ich möchte
hier kurz vorstellen, ich will im Folgenden den Versuch wagen (‘I would like to present
here’, ‘below I would like to attempt’);
– agentless constructions with verba sentiendi and verba dicendi and with
nouns signalling assumption, supposition or epistemic possibility, like Russian
анализ позволяет сделать выводы, есть основания предположить (‘the ana-
lysis permits the following conclusions’, ‘there are reasons for believing’) and German
folgende Vermutung bietet sich an (‘it is a reasonable assumption that’), etc. in German.
In some cases, several different hedging devices such as modal verbs, modal adverbs or
particles are juxtaposed in a sentence and mitigate the same proposition, such as, ‘it could be
possibly suggested that’. These constructions are called ‘compound hedges’ (Salager-Meyer,
1994). In comparison to simple hedges they express tentativeness or uncertainty more intensely,
but, in fact, they perform the same functions as single hedging devices. I will regard such
compound constructions as a single instance of hedging where they refer to the same
proposition.
For the purposes of the analysis, all linguistic devices from the German and Russian corpora
regarded as hedges were counted and classiﬁed according to their forms and functions. The
context in which hedging expressions occur was taken into account during the analysis procedure.
In what follows, expressions such as German natürlich and Russian конечно (‘of course’), etc.
are regarded as equivalents since they perform similar functions in their contextual use
(Siepmann, 2005, p. 16). The relative frequency of hedges per 10,000 words was calculated.
Special attention was paid to the degree of the author’s conﬁdence in the truth of the proposition,
expressed by speciﬁc hedging devices like modal verbs and modal words, and to general
preferences concerning speciﬁc hedging devices in the German and Russian corpora.
The study concentrates on the following questions:
– What is the relative frequency of hedges in the German and Russian conference
presentations in sociology, compared with the results from the Russian and German
research articles?
– How is the author’s conﬁdence in the truth of the proposition presented in the German and
Russian conference presentations, compared with the results from the Russian and German
research articles?
– Which linguistic types of hedging are preferred by the German and by Russian authors?
– Which features concerning the use of hedging can be regarded as culture speciﬁc and which
are genre speciﬁc?
300 Anna Breitkopf-Siepmann
3. RESULTS
3.1. General observations
The comparison of the relative frequency per 10,000 words of all hedges in the German and
Russian corpora suggests that hedging plays an important role as a discourse strategy in both the
German and Russian sociological conference presentations. Both oral corpora demonstrate a high
relative frequency of hedges. However, no signiﬁcant difference concerning the relative frequency
of hedging can be observed. In the German conference presentations, the total number of hedges
is 436, i.e. a relative frequency of 88. In the Russian conference presentations, the total number of
hedges is 308, i.e. a relative frequency of 87.7 (Figure 13.1 (a)).
The comparison of the German and Russian research articles in terms of their relative
frequency of hedging shows similar results: no signiﬁcant difference can be observed between the
German and Russian sociological texts. However, compared with the conference presentations,
the relative frequency of hedging in the research articles is signiﬁcantly lower. In the German
written corpus, the total number of hedges is 585, i.e. a relative frequency of 26.3. In the Russian
written corpus, the total number of hedges is 503, i.e. a relative frequency of 27 (Figure 13.1 (b)).
The results, therefore, suggest that the general frequency of hedges in the corpus depends on genre
rather than on culture, at least as far as German and Russian sociological texts are concerned. It
can be assumed that the face-to-face interaction during a conference leads authors to use more
hedging than in written communication, where there is no direct contact between author and
audience.
The analysis of the hedging devices indicates that they can express different degrees of
authorial commitment to the truth of the proposition, both in German and in Russian. For
0
20
40
60
80
100
a b
German Russian
Figure 13.1. Relative frequency (10,000) of all hedges in German and Russian conference
presentations (a) and research articles (b).
Hedging in German and Russian conference presentations 301
example, German modal words like natürlich, sicherlich, offensichtlich (‘of course’, ‘surely’,
‘obviously’) express a rather strong degree of authorial commitment to the truth of the proposition
presented. This means that the author is quite sure about what he or she is saying and intends to
convey this to the audience. The function of these words is also to involve the audience in the
interaction with the author and to appeal to the common knowledge shared by the author and the
audience. Modal words, indicating a high degree of authorial commitment may also be used in
concessive constructions, such as it is obvious that . . . but, where they convey that the author
takes into account the views of others while suggesting at the same time that his or her own view
differs.
Other modal words like German wahrscheinlich (‘probably’) and vielleicht (‘possibly’,
‘perhaps’) express weaker commitment and more doubts about the truth of the proposition. This
means that the author may not really be entirely sure about what he or she is saying, or that there is
a certain openness of interpretation. It is, however, also possible that the author uses these
expressions for reasons of politeness in order to reduce the knowledge claim, even if he or she is
quite conﬁdent in the truth of the statement.
Taking into account the existing classiﬁcations of German and Russian modal constructions
by degree of authorial commitment (Helbig & Helbig, 1990; Hoffmann, 1983; Krause, 1995;
Sommerfeld, Schreiber, & Starke, 1991), I tried to assign the linguistic devices of hedging
found in the German and Russian conference presentations and research articles to two main
groups: constructions performing strong or rather strong commitment to the truth of the
proposition, and constructions performing rather weak or weak commitment to the truth of the
proposition.
The ﬁrst group consists of German modal words like natürlich, selbstverständlich, sicherlich,
offensichtlich (‘certainly’, ‘of course’, ‘surely’, ‘obviously’) and nominal or verbal constructions
such as mit Sicherheit, ohne Zweifel, in Wahrheit (‘deﬁnitely’, ‘beyond doubt’, ‘in truth’), man
muss feststellen, man kann sagen (‘one must state’, ‘one can say’), ich glaube, ich denke
(‘I believe’, ‘I think’). In the Russian corpus, this group consists of modal words like
конечно, разумеется, естественно, безусловно, очевидно, видимо (‘of course’,
‘certainly’, ‘surely’, ‘obviously’, ‘apparently’, ‘evidently’) and personal and impersonal verbal
constructions like e.g. должен заметить, я думаю (‘I must state’, ‘I think’),
следует сказать, можно сказать (‘one has to say’, ‘one can say’).
The second group consists of German modal words like vermutlich, wahrscheinlich, vielleicht,
möglicherweise (‘supposedly’, ‘probably’, ‘perhaps’, ‘possibly’) and verbal constructions like
man kann vermuten, man könnte sagen, es scheint (‘one can presume’, ‘one could say’, ‘it
seems’), and Russian modal words like вероятно, пожалуй, возможно, может быть
(‘probably’, ‘perhaps’, ‘possibly’, ‘maybe’) and verbal constructions like
мне кажется, представляется, можно предположить (‘it seems to me’, ‘it appears’,
‘one can assume’).
302 Anna Breitkopf-Siepmann
If one compares the percentage of hedging constructions belonging to these two groups in
the German and the Russian conference presentations and research articles, one can observe a
number of differences. Firstly, in the German conference presentations, 24.7% of the hedges
indicate weak commitment to the truth of proposition; 75.3% of the modal expressions indicate
strong commitment of the authors. In the Russian conference presentations, only 15.3% of the
hedges indicate weak commitment to the truth of proposition. About 84.7% of the hedges
indicate strong commitment. Secondly, in the German research articles, 41.9% of the hedges
indicate weak commitment to the truth of proposition and 58.1% of the hedges indicate strong
commitment. In the Russian research articles, only 20.9% of the hedges indicate weak
commitment to the truth of proposition and 79.1% indicate strong authorial commitment
(Figure 13.2).
Overall, our analysis suggests that some cross-cultural and genre-speciﬁc differences can be
observed between the German and the Russian sociological texts. Both in their conference
presentations and in their research articles, the German sociologists investigated here use
constructions indicating weak commitment to the truth of proposition more frequently than their
Russian counterparts. On the other hand, both the German and the Russian researchers use
constructions indicating strong commitment to the truth of the proposition more frequently in
conference presentations than in research articles. The highest percentage of constructions
indicating the strong commitment of the authors can be observed in the Russian conference
presentations. The lowest percentage can be found in the German research articles. By contrast,
the percentage of constructions indicating strong commitment to the truth of the proposition is
rather similar in the German conference presentations and Russian research articles.
0
20
40
60
80
100
GermCP RussCP GermRA RussRA
weak strong
Figure 13.2. Percentage of hedges indicating strong and weak commitment to the truth of the
proposition in German and Russian conference presentations (CP) and research articles (RA).
Hedging in German and Russian conference presentations 303
3.2. Distribution of linguistic devices of hedging
Another question concerns the frequency of different linguistic hedging devices in the German
and in the Russian conference presentations, compared with the German and Russian research
articles. If one looks at the relative frequency of the most typical hedges occurring in the German
conference presentations, one ﬁnds that the most preferred hedge is the modal word natürlich (‘of
course’), expressing a high degree of conﬁdence in the truth of the proposition. It also refers to
some common knowledge shared by the author and by the audience, supporting in that way the
argumentation of the author. Sometimes this modal word can be used additionally as a concession
marker, like the ﬁrst marked modal word in the following German example:
(1) oE 7-8W
kinderbetreuung kostet natürlich geld ähm
aber wenn es gelingen würde mehr frauen
ähm am arbeitsmarkt zu halten dann
blieben dem staat natürlich auch einkommen erhalten
Childcare costs of course money
but if one would manage to keep more women
in work, the state would save of course more money.
The modal word natürlich (‘of course’) occurs in the German conference corpus 147 times,
which corresponds to a relative frequency of 29.7 (Table 13.1). In comparison to the German
research articles, this frequency is very high: in all German research articles the word natürlich
occurs only 47 times, which corresponds to a relative frequency of 2.1 (Table 13.1).
Another frequent hedging device in German conference presentations are self-reference
constructions with verba dicendi and sentiendi or nominal expressions with self-reference like ich
glaube, ich denke, aus meiner Sicht, meines Erachtens (‘I believe’, ‘I think’, ‘in my opinion’), etc.
underlining a subjective position of the author. There are 75 occurrences of this kind of
expression, i.e. a relative frequency of 15.1 (Table 13.1). Here is an example of this type of
hedging from a German conference presentation:
(2) oH 43W
ich denke es sind im wesentlichen zwei dimensionen wichtig das
eine ist die möglichkeit ähm dass in diesem beruf auch
dauerhafte beschäftigung möglich ist dass also tatsächlich
auch nach der ausbildung entsprechende beschäftigung
smöglichkeiten zur verfügung stehen
I think that basically two aspects are most important:
one if them is the possibility of employment in this profession
304 Anna Breitkopf-Siepmann
Table 13.1. Relative frequency of different hedging devices in German conference presentations
and research articles
Typical linguistic
devices of hedging in
German sociology texts
Conference presentations Research articles
relative
frequency
per 10,000
words
number of
occurrences
relative
frequency
per 10,000
words
number of
occurrences
natürlich (‘of course’) 29.7 147 2.1 47
ich denke, etc. (‘I think’) 15.1 75 4.3 96
vielleicht (‘perhaps’) 11.5 57 1.6 36
man kann sagen, etc.
(‘one can say’)
5.6 28 7.7 171
tatsächlich (‘in fact’) 4.4 22 1.8 41
wirklich (‘truly’) 3.4 17 0.6 14
sicherlich (‘surely’) 2.6 13 0.7 15
möglicherweise
(‘possibly’)
2.4 12 0.7 17
es scheint (‘it seems’) 2.2 11 2.9 64
offensichtlich
(‘obviously’)
2.2 11 1.3 28
wahrscheinlich
(‘probably’)
1.6 8 0.8 18
selbstverständlich (‘of
course’)
1.2 6 1.1 25
wohl (‘probably’) 1 5 1.4 31
offenbar (‘apparently’) 0.6 3 1.4 31
scheinbar (‘seemingly’) 0.4 2 0.2 5
zweifellos (‘without
doubt’)
0.4 2 0.3 7
Hedging in German and Russian conference presentations 305
that means that after ﬁnishing education
one can ﬁnd an appropriate job.
In German research articles, the relative frequency of such self-reference constructions is
signiﬁcantly lower: 4.3 (96 occurrences) (Table 13.1). Ranking third in frequency in the German
conference presentations is the modal word vielleicht (‘possibly’, ‘perhaps’), expressing a weak
commitment to the truth of the proposition. It occurs with a relative frequency of 11.5 (57
occurrences; Table 13.1). Speakers may use this modal word because they are unable to make a
categorical statement for some objective reasons such as lack of data supporting the hypothesis.
Another reason for using such modal words is the attempt to ward off potential criticism, even if
the speakers are sure about their statements. In the German research articles, the relative frequency
of vielleicht is signiﬁcantly lower: 1.6 (36 occurrences; Table 13.1). The following German
example demonstrates the use of vielleicht in a conference presentation:
(3) o N 14W
(ne kleine) gruppe die äh zugeschriebene deﬁzite hat also
hier fallen vielleicht leute rein die nicht mehr in diesem äh
dann jeweils gültigen ( . . . ) ﬂexiblen schönheitsstandards
entsprechen
A small group to which we can attribute these deﬁciencies . . .
Among these we may ﬁnd people that do not correspond to
the standards of beauty that are currently in vogue.
In this example the speaker tries to divide her informants into certain groups, accompanying
the deﬁnition of one of the groups with the modal word vielleicht and presenting her classiﬁcation
in a tentative way in order to avoid potential criticism.
If we compare the German conference presentations with the German research articles one
can observe the following differences: In the conference presentations, speakers prefer to use
self-reference constructions underlining their personal opinion or modal words like natürlich
or vielleicht, expressing either rather strong or rather weak commitment to the truth of the
statement. In the research articles, where the relative frequency of hedging is generally lower,
authors prefer to use impersonal constructions with modal verbs like man kann sagen (‘one
can say’) with the highest relative frequency of 7.7 (171 occurrences) or es scheint (‘it
seems’) with a relative frequency of 2.9 (64 occurrences). Similarly to conference pre-
sentations, another frequent form of hedging in research articles are self-reference con-
structions like ich denke (‘I think’). However, the relative frequency of these constructions in
the research articles (4.3; 96 occurrences) is signiﬁcantly lower than in the conference
presentations (Table 13.1). On the contrary, the relative frequency of impersonal constructions
in the research articles is slightly higher than in the conference presentations. This tendency
306 Anna Breitkopf-Siepmann
coincides with the traditional view on written academic discourse as being impersonal and
objective (Foucault, 1977; Weinrich, 1990).
Similar to the German conference presentations, the Russian conference presentations exhibit
a clear preference for self-reference constructions expressing the personal opinion of the speaker
like я думаю (‘I think’) and the modal word конечно (‘of course’). Constructions with verba
dicendi and sentiendi have the highest relative frequency in the Russian conference
presentations (24.1; 85 occurrences; Table 13.2). In the Russian research articles these
constructions have a signiﬁcantly lower frequency (4.6; Table 13.2). However, verbs of thinking
or feeling belong to the three most frequently used hedging devices in the Russian research
articles (Table 13.2). While in the Russian conference presentations these verbs are used with
the personal pronoun я (‘I’), in the Russian research articles they tend to be used with the
personal pronoun мы (‘we’) (Breitkopf, 2006, 2007). The following example demonstrates how
Russian sociologists can use this form of hedging in order to express their personal opinion in
conference presentations:
(4) o K 8W
I think that if those who are working in that ﬁeld
would take into account the history of philosophy up to Plato,
they would be able to say something more
and also to talk more competently about that issue.
The second most frequently used hedging expression in the Russian conference presentations is
the modal word конечно (‘of course’) (Table 13.2). It has a relative frequency of 16.2 (75
occurrences), which is lower than the relative frequency of its German equivalent natürlich in the
German conference presentations (29.7; Table 13.1), but signiﬁcantly higher in comparison to the
Russian research articles (1.9; 35 occurrences; Table 13.2). In the Russian research articles,
конечно also belongs to the most frequently used hedging devices, although its frequency is
signiﬁcantly lower.
(5) oP 45W
Can one say that noble estate exists now in Russia?
Hedging in German and Russian conference presentations 307
Table 13.2. Relative frequency of different hedging devices in Russian conference presentations
and research articles
Typical linguistic
devices of hedging in
Russian sociology texts
Conference presentations Research articles
relative
frequency
per 10,000
words
number of
occurrences
relative
frequency
per 10,000
words
number of
occurrences
я думаю (‘I think’) 24.1 85 4.6 85
конечно (‘of course’) 16.2 75 1.9 35
(мне) кажется (‘it
seems to me’)
9.1 32 1.1 21
может быть
(‘perhaps’)
6.3 22 0.8 14
можно сказать (‘one
can say’)
3.9 14 11.1 207
видимо (‘evidently’) 3.4 12 1.4 26
естественно (‘surely’) 2.8 10 0.8 15
наверное (‘surely’) 2.3 8 0.05 1
действительно (‘in
reality’)
1.9 7 1.7 33
очевидно (‘apparently’) 1.4 5 1.3 25
возможно (‘possibly’) 1.1 4 1.4 27
безусловно
(‘obviously’)
1.1 4 0.9 17
разумеется
(‘certainly’)
0.6 2 0.7 13
308 Anna Breitkopf-Siepmann
Of course not, because there are no any basement for the economic
existence of this social group.
In this example from a Russian conference presentation, the speaker asks a rhetorical question
and then proposes the answer beginning with the modal word конечно, which refers to some
common knowledge shared by the audience. This modal word implies that the audience should
agree with his or her statement because of some self-evident generally known facts. The use of the
modal word also helps to emphasize the answer to the rhetorical question.
One more frequently used hedging device in the Russian conference presentations is the verb
казаться (‘to seem’), which often occurs with a personal pronoun as an indirect subject:
мне кажется (‘it seems to me’). Its relative frequency is 9.1 (32 occurrences; Table 13.2). In
the Russian research articles its relative frequency is signiﬁcantly lower (1.1; Table 13.2). In the
Russian research articles this verb is normally either used without a personal pronoun or with the
ﬁrst person plural pronoun rather than the singular, like it seems to us (Breitkopf, 2006). The
following example shows how a construction with the verb казаться is used in the Russian
conference presentations:
(6) oK 8W
It seems to me that here many problems are caused by some kind of so to say ignorance
in philosophy. They discover something in the ﬁelds that, generally speaking, have been
already discussed.
Here the speaker criticizes those researchers who do not follow current trends in philosophy
and try to work in well-researched ﬁelds without taking into account previous ﬁndings. She uses
the face-threatening expression (‘ignorance’), which might offend the researchers
mentioned. In order to reduce this rather strong criticism, the speaker uses two devices: ﬁrstly, the
downtoners какой-то, некоторый (‘some kind of’), так сказать, что-ли (‘so to say’)
and, secondly, the verb to seem with the personal pronoun as an indirect object (мне кажется).
By contrast, in the German conference presentations, the verb construction es scheint – the
equivalent of Russian кажется (‘it seems’) – does not belong to the most frequently used
hedging devices (cf. Table 13.1).
Another difference between the German and the Russian conference presentations can be
observed in the use of the modal word vielleicht and its Russian equivalent может быть
(‘possibly’, ‘perhaps’). In the German conference presentations, this modal word is among the
most frequent hedging devices. In the Russian conference presentations, может быть is used
more frequently than many other modal words, but still signiﬁcantly less than its equivalent in the
German conference presentations.
Hedging in German and Russian conference presentations 309
In the Russian conference presentations, impersonal constructions with modal verbs like
можно сказать (‘one can say’) have a rather low relative frequency, similar to its German
equivalent man kann sagen. It is 3.9 in Russian and 5.6 in the German conference presentations
(Tables 13.1 and 13.2). These hedging devices are more frequently used in written research
articles (Tables 13.1 and 13.2).
Overall, our analysis shows that there are culture-speciﬁc as well as genre-speciﬁc differences
in the use of hedging devices in the German and Russian conference presentations and research
articles. In the German conference presentations the most preferred linguistic hedging devices
are modal words expressing rather strong or rather weak commitment to the truth of the
statement like natürlich (‘of course’) and vielleicht (‘possibly’, ‘perhaps’) and self-reference
constructions with verba dicendi and sentiendi expressing the personal opinion of the speaker.
In the Russian conference presentations the most preferred hedging devices are constructions
with verba dicendi and sentiendi as well as the verb construction it seems to me, which also
expresses the personal opinion of the speaker but in a more tentative way. Whereas the modal
word конечно (‘of course’), which expresses a strong commitment to the truth of the statement,
is also among the most frequently used hedging devices in the Russian conference presentations,
the modal word может быть (‘possibly’, ‘perhaps’) is used rather rarely. On the whole, the
Russian speakers prefer modal words expressing a strong commitment to the truth of the
statement, but they also use verb constructions which sharply reduce the illocutionary force of
the utterance.
3.3. Interpersonal function of hedging
Another question concerns the use of hedges in combination with certain forms of audience
address. My observation is that in the conference presentations it is especially modal
words which express very strong or very weak commitment to the truth of the statement (such
as German natürlich, sicherlich, vielleicht or Russian конечно, естественно or
может быть) that occur together with direct forms of address of the audience, including
second personal plural pronouns or other forms of address, such as German wie Sie wissen (‘as
you know’), hier sehen Sie (‘here you can see’), wie wir alle wissen (‘as we all know’) or
Russian уважаемые коллеги (‘honourable colleagues’). The following examples demonstrate
how hedges can be accompanied by references to the audience in German conference
presentations. In example (7), below, the speaker states that, according to his observations, a
speciﬁc social group (university graduates) receives gifts more frequently from their parents than
people who do not hold university degrees. Immediately after introducing this observation, he
anticipates the objection that university graduates form a minor group of the population. The
speaker refers to this common knowledge by means of a construction containing the personal
310 Anna Breitkopf-Siepmann
pronoun we – wir wissen (‘we know’) and with the help of the modal word natürlich (‘of
course’), which is repeated twice.
(7) oS 24W
akademiker erhalten entsprechend häuﬁger schenkungen insgesamt
aber insbesondere auch von den eltern als personen mit einem
realschulabschluss oder einem hauptschulabschluss obwohl
natürlich wir wissen dass akademiker natürlich die kleinere
bevölkerungsgruppe ist
University graduates receive more frequently gifts in general, but they especially receive
more gifts from their parents in comparison to persons without university degree,
although we know of course that university graduates is of course a minor population
group.
In another German example, the speaker, summarizing his previous statements, underlines that
career policy plays an important role in academia and in sociology as well. In order to gain
acceptance of this utterance, the speaker directly addresses the audience by using the polite form of
the personal pronoun, referring to the entire audience by means of the verb sehen (‘to see’) and the
modal word natürlich (‘of course’). In addition, he refers to the sociological community including
the audience by means of the possessive pronoun unsere (‘our’) and the words Zunft and Disziplin
(‘guild’, ‘discipline’). In this way his arguments appear to be more persuasive and self-evident.
(8) oE 16W
also sie sehen karrierepolitik in der wissenschaft und auch in
unserer eigenen äh zunft oder disziplin spielt natürlich immer
und auf allen ebenen eine rolle
Well you see that career policy in the sciences and also in our own guild or discipline
plays of course always a role and at all levels.
As already mentioned, modal words expressing weak commitment to the truth of the statement
can also be used together with a reference to the audience, as the following example from a
German conference presentation demonstrates. In this example, the speaker addresses the
audience by referring to some information presumably available for the audience. In this way, he
also tries to win the audience’s support for his argument, but he is not quite sure whether the data
he refers to are commonly known.
(9) oH 37W
es handelt sich hier um daten aus ( . . . ) der ( . . . ) studie des
( . . . ) instituts in berlin die sie vielleicht kennen die sie aber
möglicherweise auch eher aus anderen zusammenhängen äh ¼ kennen
also meistens in form von ( . . . )statistiken
Hedging in German and Russian conference presentations 311
It is data from the study at the institute in Berlin that you probably know. Possibly you
know the data also from other sources, mostly in the form of statistics.
In the Russian conference presentations, speakers may also use modal words accompanied
by particular forms of audience address. However, the Russian speakers prefer to address the
audience in a less direct way than the German speakers. They use ﬁrst person plural personal
or possessive pronouns to refer to a group including the speaker and the audience. In some
cases, expressions such as honourable colleagues are used instead of pronouns. In the Russian
example (10), below, the speaker addresses the audience with the help of the ﬁrst person
plural personal pronoun, which refers to a group including the speaker and the audience,
and – possibly – some other not strictly deﬁned larger group of persons not present at the
conference. In her presentation, the speaker criticizes the theoretical and terminological chaos
that exists in the contemporary Russian sociological discourse. Using the personal pronoun
we, which refers to this discourse community and also to the conference audience, the speaker
points out the inﬂuence of the mass media on the sociological discourse. In order to support
her statement and to appeal to the common knowledge she uses the modal word конечно
(‘of course’).
(10) oK 4W
There is a vast number of theories ( . . . ) one author concentrates on ( . . . ) other authors
concentrate on some space and time aspects, on the transformation of time and space
perception in the modern world with its increasing life tempo and so on . . . Different
images appear here and there, images connected with this tempo and introduced to us of
course by the developing
mass media and electronic devices. The terminology is a mess.
In the Russian example (11), below, the speaker offers a deﬁnition of ecology, assuming that
she has already presented this deﬁnition to her students but not to her colleagues, including the
colleagues present at the current conference. Similar to the German example (10), above, she
makes an assumption about the state of knowledge of the audience by using the modal word
может быть (‘probably’). The whole construction aims to justify the proposal of a deﬁnition.
312 Anna Breitkopf-Siepmann
(11) oK 14W
наука о том что если человечество
будет безнравственно оно вымрет оно придет
What is ecology? It is a science about . . .
I have surely told it to the students, probably not to the colleagues . . . It is a science that
incorporates the insight that, if the human race behaves immorally, it will become
extinct, it will be destroyed physically.
The use of modal words accompanied by references to the audience supports the idea of the
interpersonal function of hedging (Mauranen, 1997). In the examples listed above, hedges are
used in order to appeal to some common knowledge shared by the speaker and the audience and,
thus, to support the argumentation of the speaker. The speakers’ aim is also to involve the
audience in interaction with the speaker. This constellation of hedges and reference to the
audience seems to be a speciﬁc feature of oral academic communication.4
The presence of the
audience, which is capable of immediate reactions, surely encourages speakers to use such
constructions which help to gain the audience’s support.
If one compares the percentage of modal words with an interpersonal function that are coupled
with different forms of audience address in the German and in the Russian conference
4
No forms of addressing the audience by the means of the second person personal pronouns were found
in either German or Russian sociological research articles (Breitkopf, 2006).
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
GermCP RussCP
strong weak
Figure 13.3. Modal words expressing strong and weak commitment with forms addressing the
audience (in percent).
Hedging in German and Russian conference presentations 313
presentations, it can be observed that the percentage of such constructions is distinctly higher in
the German than in the Russian corpus. As Figure 13.3 demonstrates, 29% (21 occurrences) of the
modal words expressing weak commitment to the truth of the proposition and 12% (21
occurrences) of the modal words expressing strong commitment to the truth of the proposition are
used together with forms of audience address. In the Russian conference presentations, only 7% (3
occurrences) of the modal words expressing weak commitment to the truth of the proposition and
0,5% (6 occurrences) of the modal words expressing strong commitment to the truth of
proposition are used together with forms of audience address.
This difference between the German and Russian conference presentations can be explained by
the fact that Russian speakers generally address the audience less frequently than German
speakers and interact with the audience in a less direct way (Breitkopf, 2007). It is however
interesting to observe that, both in the German and in the Russian conference presentations, modal
words expressing weak commitment to the statement are more frequently accompanied by
audience reference. One possible explanation for this derives from the semantic and pragmatic
difference between the two types of modal words. Utterances modiﬁed by modal words like
possibly or perhaps sound signiﬁcantly less categorical than statements modiﬁed by modal words
such as of course and surely. Direct audience address might require more caution from the speaker
(if one thinks of FTAs) and, therefore, may be more often accompanied by stronger hedging
devices like possibly or perhaps.
4. CONCLUSION
The aim of this study was to investigate whether, in sociology, the forms and frequency of
hedging depend on culture-speciﬁc and genre-speciﬁc features. For that purpose, German and
Russian conference presentations in sociology were analysed and compared with research articles
from the same discipline. The research questions concerned the distribution of hedging devices
and the use of hedging in its interpersonal function. It was found that both culture-speciﬁc and
genre-speciﬁc factors inﬂuence authorial preferences for different forms of hedging and the
overall frequency of hedging.
As far as the general frequency of hedging is concerned, the genre-speciﬁc differences appear
to be more signiﬁcant than the culture-speciﬁc differences. Both in the German and the Russian
conference presentations a high relative frequency of hedges can be observed. By contrast, in both
the German and Russian research articles the relative frequency of hedging is signiﬁcantly lower.
The reason for the higher frequency of hedging in oral forms of academic communication is not
hard to ﬁnd: it is the face-to-face interaction at conferences, where speakers are extremely
concerned about audience reactions and participation.
314 Anna Breitkopf-Siepmann
As far as preferences for different hedging devices are concerned, it can be generally stated
that constructions expressing strong commitment to the truth of the proposition are favoured
both in the German and Russian conference presentations and research articles. However, there
are some culture-speciﬁc and genre-speciﬁc differences. The percentage of constructions
expressing strong commitment to the truth of the statement is higher in the Russian conference
presentations and research articles. The German sociologists use constructions which express
doubt more frequently than their Russian counterparts. This difference may be explained by the
fact that the German speakers and authors are more concerned about criticism from listeners or
readers. As a study on German and Russian conference discussions indicates, German recipients
tend to express their criticism more openly than their Russian colleagues (Bassler, 2007).
German speakers or authors may, therefore, be more concerned about potential criticism and
may employ ‘cautious’ expressions, such as hedges which signal only weak commitment to the
truth of the utterance.
On the other hand, both the German and Russian conference presentations exhibit a higher
percentage of hedges expressing strong commitment to the truth of the proposition than German
and Russian research articles do. The percentage of constructions which express the authors’ weak
commitment is higher in the research articles than in the conference presentations. This difference
comes out most clearly when we compare the German oral and written texts. A possible
explanation for this genre-speciﬁc difference is that writers have to protect their ‘faces’ more
intensely than speakers and, thus, express themselves more carefully. Whereas speakers in a face-
to-face discussion can respond to criticism immediately, reformulate their utterances in case of
misunderstanding or accept others’ views, writers do not have these opportunities.
The comparison of different hedging devices also indicates that there are some ‘favourite’
constructions that occur with particular frequency in the sociology texts. For the German
conference presentations, these are the modal words natürlich (‘of course’) and vielleicht
(‘possibly’) as well as verbal constructions containing ﬁrst person singular personal pronouns,
such as ich denke (‘I think’). The Russian conference presentations tend to use the modal word
конечно (‘of course’) and constructions with a direct or indirect subject referring to the speakers’
mental processes, such as я думаю (‘I think’) and мне кажется (‘it seems to me’). By
contrast, in both the German and Russian research articles, impersonal constructions with modal
words like German man kann sagen or Russian можно сказать (‘one can say’) are among the
most commonly used devices. These seem to be constructions typical of written academic texts.
The dense use of certain modal words in the conference presentations supports Mauranen’s
(1997) idea that hedges can perform interpersonal functions. This is obvious from the way the
hedges are used with forms of audience address. Hedges with an interpersonal function enable
speakers to underline the involvement of the audience in the interaction and try to gain support for
their ideas and ﬁndings.
Hedging in German and Russian conference presentations 315
In this area there are also some culture-speciﬁc differences in evidence. The German speakers use
modal words together with forms of audience address more frequently than the Russian speakers do.
In conclusion, our analysis has shown that genre-speciﬁc features of academic discourse are no
less important than culture-speciﬁc features. Oral communication imposes certain restrictions on
language users, which inﬂuence the form of academic texts. The need to consider immediate
audience feedback and the possibility of spontaneously enlarging on or shortening the discourse
have a signiﬁcant impact on the way speakers organize their argument and present it to the
audience. Since it is an important communicative strategy in academic discourse, hedging is also
subject to genre-speciﬁc variation.
However, it has to be pointed out that the results presented here indicate some general
tendencies and have a restricted validity since they only apply to a particular period of time: 2001
and 2002. Unfortunately, no conference presentations from the same discipline were available for,
say, the late 1980s. There is, therefore, no way of tracking changes in academic communication
that may have occurred since that time. It is also possible that today’s conference presentations
may differ to some extent from those recorded in 2001 and 2002. The features of Russian
academic communication in particular are in a state of constant ﬂux because of rapid changes in
the economic and social conditions in Russia, as demonstrated in a study by Rathmayr (2006).
This is an area that clearly deserves further study.
REFERENCES
Bassler, H. (2007). Diskussionen nach Vorträgen bei wissenschaftlichen Tagungen. In P. Auer & H. Bassler
(Eds.), Reden und Schreiben in der Wissenschaft (pp. 133–154). Frankfurt am Main: Campus.
Benveniste, É. (1966). Problèmes de linguistique générale. Paris: Gallimard.
Bloor, M., & Bloor, T. (1991). Cultural expectations and socio-pragmatic failure in academic writing.
In P. Adams, B. Heaton & P. Howarth (Eds.), Socio-cultural issues in English for academic purposes (pp.
1–12). London: Macmillan.
Breitkopf, A. (2005). Hedging in deutschen und russischen wissenschaftlichen Texten: Sprachliche und
funktionale Unterschiede. In A. Wolff, C. Riemer & F. Neubauer (Eds.), Sprache lehren-Sprache lernen –
Materialien Deutsch als Fremdsprache (Vol. 74, pp. 293–325). Regensburg: Iudicium.
Breitkopf, A. (2006). Wissenschaftsstile im Vergleich: Subjektivität in deutschen und russischen
Zeitschriftenartikeln der Soziologie. Freiburg: Rombach.
Breitkopf, A. (2007). Involvement im mündlichen wissenschaftlichen Diskurs. Deutsche und russische
Tagungsvorträge kontrastiv. Studien zur deutschen Sprache und Literatur (Vol. XIX, pp. 49–82).
Universität Istanbul.
Brown, P., & Levinson, S. C. (1987). Politeness. Some universals in language usage. Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press.
Clyne, M. (1991). The sociocultural dimension: The dilemma of the German-speaking scholar. In H. Schröder
(Ed.), Subject-oriented texts: Languages for special purposes and text theory (pp. 49–67). Berlin: Mouton
de Gruyter.
316 Anna Breitkopf-Siepmann
Coates, J. (1987). Epistemic modality and spoken discourse. Transactions of the Philological Society, 85,
110–131.
Crismore, A., & Farnsworth, R. (1990). Metadiscourse in popular and professional science discourse. In
W. Nash (Ed.), The writing scholar: Studies in academic discourse (pp. 118–136). Newbury Park, CA:
Sage.
Crismore, A., & Van de Kopple, W. (1997). Hedges and readers: Effects on attitudes and learning. In
R. Markkanen & H. Schröder (Eds.), Hedging and discourse: Approaches to the analysis of a pragmatic
phenomenon in academic texts (pp. 83–114). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Finegan, E. (1995). Subjectivity and subjectivisation: An introduction. In D. Stein & S. Wright (Eds.),
Subjectivity and subjectivisation: Linguistic perspectives (pp. 1–15). Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Foucault, M. (1977). What is an author?. In D. Bouchard (Ed.), Language, counter-memory, practice (pp.
113–138). Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.
Helbig, G., & Helbig, A. (1990). Lexikon Deutscher Modalwörter. Leipzig: Enzyklopädie.
Hoffmann, L. (1983). Kommunikation vor Gericht. Tübingen: Narr.
Hyland, K. (1998). Hedging in scientiﬁc research articles. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hyland, K. (2005). Metadiscourse: Exploring interaction in writing. London: Continuum.
Krause, M. (1995). Zum Ausdruck von Gewissheit-Ungewissheit im Russischen. In H. Dippong (Ed.),
Linguistische Beiträge zur Slavistik aus Deutschland, Österreich und der Schweiz. III JungslavistInnen-
Treffen Hamburg 1994 (pp. 105–116). München: Sagner.
Kreutz, H., & Harres, A. (1997). Some observations on the distribution and function of hedging in German and
English academic writing. In A. Duszak (Ed.), Culture and styles of academic discourse (pp. 181–202).
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Lakoff, G. (1972). Hedges: A study in meaning criteria and the logic of fuzzy concepts. Chicago Linguistic
Society Papers, 8, 183–228.
Lyons, J. (1977). Semantics (Vol. 2). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Mauranen, A. (1997). Hedging in language revisers’ hands. In R. Markkanen & H. Schröder (Eds.), Hedging
and discourse: Approaches to the analysis of a pragmatic phenomenon in academic texts (pp. 115–133).
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Markkanen, R., & Schröder, H. (1997). Hedging: A challenge for pragmatics and discourse analysis. In
R. Markkanen & H. Schröder (Eds.), Hedging and discourse: Approaches to the analysis of a pragmatic
phenomenon in academic texts (pp. 2–18). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Namsaraev, V. (1997). Hedging in Russian academic writing in sociological texts. In R. Markkanen &
H. Schröder (Eds.), Hedging and discourse: Approaches to the analysis of a pragmatic phenomenon in
academic texts (pp. 64–79). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Prince, E. F., Frader, J., & Bosk, C. H. (1982). On hedging in physician-physician discourse. In R. J. Di Pietro
(Ed.), Linguistics and the professions. Proceedings of the 2nd annual delaware symposium on language
studies (pp. 83–97). Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Rathmayr, R. (2006). Kulturnaja speciﬁka i skrytye normy v naučno-delovoj reči (na primere avstrijsko-
rossijskih peregovorov o sotrudničestve universitetov). In L. P. Krysin (Ed.), Russkij Jazyk Segodnja (Vol.
4, pp. 457–470). Moscow: Institut russkogo jazyka im. V.V. Vinogradova RAN..
Salager-Meyer, F. (1994). Hedges and textual communicative function in medical English written discourse.
English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 13, 149–170.
Siepmann, D. (2005). Discourse markers across languages. A contrastive study of second-level discourse
markers in native and non-native text with implications for general and pedagogic lexicography. London:
Routledge.
Hedging in German and Russian conference presentations 317
Sommerfeld, K.-E., Schreiber, H., & Starke, G. (1991). Grammatisch-semantische Felder. Berlin:
Langenscheidt.
Trumpp, E. C. (1998). Fachtextsorten kontrastiv. Englisch – Deutsch – Französisch. Tübingen: Narr.
Vassileva, I. (1997). Hedging in English and Bulgarian academic writing. In A. Duszak (Ed.), Culture and
styles of academic discourse (pp. 203–222). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Weinrich, H. (1990). Formen der Wissen schaftssprache. Tutzinger Materialie, 61, 3–21.
318 Anna Breitkopf-Siepmann
Subjectivity in Language and in Discourse
Edited by Nicole Baumgarten, Inke Du Bois and Juliane House
r 2012 by Emerald Group Publishing Limited. All rights reserved.
14
GRAMMATICAL, PRAGMATIC AND SOCIOLINGUISTIC
ASPECTS OF THE FIRST PERSON PLURAL PRONOUN
Inke Du Bois
1. INTRODUCTION
The meaning of pronouns in the construction of subjectivity is to divergent levels context
dependent in different languages. In English and German, the pronoun as an indexical sign occurs
in dynamic coexistence with its speaker, the context and other speakers or referents referred to and
is in need of much repair, elaboration and reformulation (Auer, 1999; Hanks, 2000). Walmajarri
and Samoan, on the other hand, have more differentiated pronominal systems in which the
referents are less ambiguous and less context dependent, so that the indexicality, the linguistic
pointing through pronominal choice in these languages is clearer and more distinct. The English
language is an inclusive language which means that the ﬁrst person plural pronoun includes
the addressee(s) and the speaker within a set of referents (Filimonova, 2005). About 40% of
the languages in the world distinguish between an inclusive and exclusive ‘we’ (Bickel & Nichols,
2005b, p. 53). These languages have pronominal systems which possess different morphemes
or lexemes in situations where (1) the speaker wants to express that the addressee is referred
to (inclusive) and (2) when the referents include the speaker and others but not the addressee
(exclusive). Further, in some languages, there are ‘we’ pronouns that distinguish if two (dual),
three (trial) or more persons (plural) are referred to (Daniel, 2005, p. 15). English and German and
most other Standard European languages are conﬁned to the ﬁrst person plural pronoun ‘we’ that
includes all of the meanings above and thus potentially has an unlimited number of referents.
English we and German wir are, therefore, ambiguous and context dependent in their meaning
(see Pavlidou, this volume). The meaning of pronouns is highly dependent on prior discourse
and speaker context. The ﬁrst person plural ‘we’ has multiple referents and usually refers to a
group of at least two people that include the speaker.1
The pronoun ‘we’ refers (1) to a speaker
and their addressee or (2) a group that includes the speaker and other referents and not the
addressee or (3) a group that includes the speaker, the addressee and other referents. The meaning
and referents of ‘we’ thus always depend on the speaker and the discourse context (Auer, 1999;
Du Bois, 2007; Hanks, 2000). Person deictics of the ‘we’ pronoun has been investigated
extensively in sociolinguistic studies that focus on the meaning of pronouns in the construction of
speaker identities and stances. These studies have shown that speakers align and distance
themselves with and from others through pronominal choices in everyday speech (Du Bois &
Baumgarten, 2008; Yamaguchi, 2006) and political speech (Buchholtz & Hall, 2005; McIlvenny,
1996). In the area of political discourse, the multiple functions and ambiguous meanings of
pronouns are manipulated by speakers to foster identiﬁcation, alignment and disalignment
(Buchholtz & Hall, 2005).
This chapter looks deeper into grammatical and semantic aspects of the ‘we’ pronoun in
English and offers a cross-linguistic comparison with exclusive languages. Insights from different
paradigms and questions regarding the grammar and semantics of the ‘we’ pronoun are convened
and discussed. No completeness is claimed in the description of cross-linguistic variation, but the
differences and developments as a background for the purely contextual meaning in discourse are
provided. Contextual dependence and sociolinguistic relevance of the ‘we’ pronoun is illustrated
in a discourse analytic study where varying referents in sections of an interview show how
subjectivity and alignment with other referents varies. These subtle shifts of different alignments
which are indicated by the ﬁrst person plural pronoun are analysed and ﬁnally, the different
referents of the ‘we’ pronoun are correlated with sociolinguistic demographic factors of the
speakers.
2. GRAMMATICAL CONCERNS: ‘WE’ AS THE PLURALIZATION OF THE ‘I’
‘We’ is considered the plural of ‘I’, the ﬁrst person singular. In fact, as Pavlidou (this volume)
points out, there are only very few speech act situations where it can be argued that ‘we’ is really
the plural of ‘I’. Mostly ‘we’ refers to (we ¼ Iþyou) or (we ¼ Iþher) or (we ¼ Iþthey). Only in
a scenario where multiple speakers utter speech that contains ‘we’ at the same time, we represents
the plural of I. ‘We’ is usually not (we ¼ IþIþI) whereas ﬂowers is the plural of its singular
correlate (ﬂowers ¼ ﬂowerþﬂowerþﬂower). The plural referents of nouns are homogenous
(Daniel, 2005, p. 8). The referents for ‘we’ and ‘you’ plural are heterogeneous, that is,
1
Cases of we and wir, where the speaker is not included in the set of referents is discussed in Section 4.
320 Inke Du Bois
(we ¼ Iþother people, you ¼ youþother people). One could thus state that ‘we’ in discourse is
not a true plural of I (Filimonova, 2005). There are, however, a few cases, in which this
grammatical category is homogenous, as e.g. in ritualistic language use, i.e. in speech act
situations that are embedded in cultural activities such as sports, political demonstrations or
church service. In the above situations a group of people form a community with a repertoire of
genres which ‘‘facilitate collective involvement in grappling with events remembered and
anticipated’’ (Capps & Ochs, 2002, p. 39). This type of speech is referred to as choral (Daniel
2005, p. 6) and mass speaking (Mühlhäusler & Harré, 1990, p. 201). Prayer can be considered a
form of mass speaking and is often elicited by one speaker, e.g. a pastor or priest in a stimulus/
call-response system.
(1) Priest: Let us pray.
Congregation: Our Father who art in heaven ( . . . )
Give us today our daily bread.
And forgive us our trespasses.
As we forgive those who trespass against us.
And lead us not into temptation,
But deliver us from evil ( . . . )
The prayer Our Father in Heaven, a well-known prayer in Christianity, is featured by the
memorized, prescripted precise wording, which is spoken simultaneously by a congregation. The
ﬁrst person plural pronouns are indeed referring to ‘IþIþI’ and its cases us ¼ ‘meþmeþme’ and
our ¼ ‘myþmyþmy’. Children’s games equally often include such a choral we in rhymes and
songs.
(2) Family: Come Lord Jesus be our guest, and let these gifts to us be blessed.
(Capps & Ochs, 2002, p. 59)
Another form of choral can be found in the genre of academic writing. Research articles are
often written by several co-authors as in ‘‘the autonomy of grammar is evidently germane to our
investigations’’ (Mühlhäusler & Harré, 1990, p. 16). However, this is different from the equally
common practice of the authorial we that one author uses for rhetorical functions. Children’s
games equally often include such a choral we in rhymes and songs.
(3) Daddy’s in the saucer, Mummy’s in the cup, Daddy’s in the saucer we all jump up.
(Mühlhäusler & Harré, 1990, p. 202)
Children’s games and rhymes are equally prescripted, memorized and ritualized as prayers,
even though their function is different. In fact, the choral and mass speaking has to be prescribed
or memorized in order for many speakers to utter the same sentences at the same time. Individual
speakers would otherwise not be able to utter the same sentences at the same time.
Grammatical and Sociolinguistic Aspects of the First Person Plural Pronoun 321
Not all children’s games are perlocutionary, as e.g. the German children’s game Fischer,
Fischer, wie tief ist das Wasser? (‘Fisher, ﬁsher how deep is the water?’) In this game, one kid
stands about 15–25 m apart from a group of kids who ask the single kid which movement they
should use to come towards the single kid. They speak in a sing-song manner.
(4) Group: Fischer, Fischer, wie tief ist das Wasser?
Single Kid: 100 Meter tief!
Group: Und wie kommen wir da rüber?
Single Kid: Kriechen
Group: Fisher, ﬁsher how deep is the water?
Single Kid: 100 meters deep.
Group: And how can we cross it?
Single Kid: Crawling
In the above examples, the indexical pronouns tie the speakers to the illocutionary force of the
speech act. Whereas in prayers, the speech acts are coordinated with bodily postures such as
bowed heads and hands clasped together or extended to others around the table. Another example
of we is audience/fan chanting (‘‘we want more, we want more’’) and soccer/football chanting as
the chant for this German football team:
(5) We love St. Pauli, we do
We love St. Pauli, we do
We love St. Pauli, we do
St Pauli we love you . . .
Overall speaker-speaker coordinated choral speech acts are fairly rare in everyday social life
(cf. Daniel, 2005). The plural of the pronoun I is in all but the above examples different from the
plural of a noun or nominal. It is heterogeneous and highly context dependent.
3. THE ‘WE’ PRONOUN IN EXCLUSIVE LANGUAGES
In languages such as Russian or Mandarin Chinese, the plural of pronouns is formed through
compounding. The personal plural pronoun consists of a stem of the corresponding singular
pronoun and the plural sufﬁx is added (wo- ¼ I; wo-men (pl.) ¼ we). The semantic ambiguity of
the ‘we’ pronoun in English and German is reduced through a more differentiated lexical and
morphological system in other languages.
Many languages around the Paciﬁc Rim such as Chinese, Japanese, Samoan, Malay and most
Aboriginal languages differentiate between an inclusive and an exclusive ‘we’. Most of these
exclusive languages have different roots for the ‘we’ pronoun. Samoan ﬁrst person plural
322 Inke Du Bois
pronouns must be used with the dual sufﬁx -’ua or the plural number sufﬁx -tou. This results in
‘itatou and ita’ua while both consist of the former inclusive marker ‘ita (Cysouw 2005, p. 219).
Malay has the inclusive -ita and the exclusive –ima which results in sentences where the lexical
choice marks a clear distinction between who is included (kita-all) and who is not (kami-just us).
(6) We (kita) go shopping, and after that we (kami) broil the meat.
Exclusive languages are thus languages that subdivide the ﬁrst person plural into inclusive and
exclusive forms. The languages often also distinguish not only in person but also in number
categories (dual, trial, plural). The dual refers to ‘we two’, the trial to ‘we three’ and the plural has
an undetermined number of referents.
Even though German and English do not have a dual or trial, some North Frisian languages had
the dual nominative pronoun wat and dative/accusative pronoun unc for well into the early 20th
century (Howe, 1996, p. 199). Also, Old English possessed a dual ﬁrst person plural pronoun
which disappeared in the 13th century (Crystal, 2003, p. 21). ‘We two’ in Old English are
nominative wit, accusative/dative inc and genitive incer.
The numerical differentiation of the ‘we’ referents results in the grammatical system outlined in
Table 14.1.
Notably, some languages possess a trial ﬁrst person plural pronoun. In the Australian
Aboriginal language Gawaran, the pronominal system has four different pronouns; in languages
with a trial, there are six different pronouns that correspond with ‘we’. This explicit alignment and
subjective stance which exists in exclusive languages is highly implicit in inclusive languages
such as German and English. Here, indexicality is an important concept for the construction of the
semantics of subjectivity.
4. SINGULAR AND NON-SPEAKER REFERENTS OF THE PRONOUN ‘WE’
In German and English, the referents of ‘we’ do not always include the speaker. More
speciﬁcally, there are several categories which are commonly used in everyday speech or
Table 14.1. ’We’ in exclusive languages (cf. Mühlhäusler & Harre, 1990, pp. 170–171)
Singular Dual Plural
1. Person
(exclusive)
Speaker SpeakerþThird
Person
SpeakerþThird PersonþThird
Personþ . . .
1.þ2. Person
(inclusive)
Speaker SpeakerþAddressee SpeakerþAddresseeþ..Third
Person þ . . .
Grammatical and Sociolinguistic Aspects of the First Person Plural Pronoun 323
academic writing, where the referents can be substituted with the ﬁrst person singular or the
second person singular; hence, the referents are not plural and can be replaced by ‘I’ or ‘you’.
Thus, this results in ‘we’ ¼ ‘I’ or ‘we’ ¼ ‘you’. In many cases, the ﬁrst person plural pronoun has
a politeness function. It is useful to brieﬂy explain the concept of politeness (Brown & Levinson,
1987) and the concept of positive and negative face as they are relevant for the meaning of the
above-mentioned usages of ‘we’ in German and English. Positive politeness ‘‘anoints to the face
of the addressee by indicating that in some respects, [the speaker] wants [the addressee’s] wants’’
(Brown & Levinson, 1987, p. 70). In other words, the idea is that every person has a desire to be
liked by others and for that, speaker and addressee share the same attitudes. Negative politeness
‘‘consists in assurances that the speaker recognizes and respects the addressee’s wants and will not
[ . . . ] interfere with the addressee’s freedom of action’’ (Brown & Levinson, 1987, p. 70). In
alignment with Cysouw’s (2005) typology of honoriﬁc usages of the ﬁrst person plural pronouns
taken from all over the world (German and English are not investigated), I address the four usages
as ﬁrst and second person singular referents in English and German and further add two
commonly ﬁrst person usages (‘Royal ‘we’ and ‘Pluralis auctoris’) in this section.
The ﬁrst exception in usage I want to call ‘Modesty Plural’. The speaker uses ‘we’ as a humble
ﬁrst person (we ¼ I). It can be considered negative politeness, as the speaker does not foreground
his personal interest or position in the action. Through evading ‘I’, modesty is expressed and the
threat to the own negative face is lowered. One hears this usage of ‘we’ in interviews with authors
(example 7), musicians (example 8) or football players, upon being asked how they feel about just
having scored several goals (example 9) (we ¼ I).
(7) We wrote the survey last year.2
(Instead of ‘‘I wrote the survey last year.’’)
(8) We made the song in 2007.
(9) Wir haben ein gutes Spiel gemacht.
We played a good game.
Through the use of the ﬁrst person plural, the inherent asymmetry of the speech situation and
the usage of the plural instead of direct self-reference can be considered as negative politeness as
the speaker avoids a strong imposing of the self on the addressees. In every example, the
individual experience of the speaker is hidden behind a collective team experience.
The second usage I want to call ‘Directive Plural’. It is an indirect formulation of a directive
reduction of negative face threats (‘we’ ¼ ‘you’) and could in its most positive connotation also
be considered as a bonding and positive politeness strategy. For example, in request situations,
which are per se a threat to the addressee’s negative face, they serve to minimize the speaker’s
2
Examples 7–9 were overheard by the author in conversations and the media.
324 Inke Du Bois
imposition on the addressee. The speaker suggests a closeness between speaker and addressee by
using the inclusive ‘we’ (we ¼ you).
(10) Haben wir schon abgewaschen?
Have we done the dishes yet?’
Example (10) could take place in roommate or partner communication. This usage of the ﬁrst
person plural pronoun can certainly also be interpreted as slightly ironical and condescending,
depending on the way it is uttered and intoned. Less irony, but a certain ambiguity is the case in
example 11.
(11) We should ﬁnish that report by next week.
In this example, a boss-employee situation is at stake. Here, a boss creates closeness and a
common goal with the employee by using the inclusive ‘we’. Instead of employing the second
person singular pronoun, the face threat is reduced as speaker and addressee seem to be equally
involved in the situation and the suggested equality creates a bond between speaker and
addressee. However, the usage of this politeness ‘we’ differ in German and English conversation,
in that in German this use of a speaker-involving ‘we’ is less frequent than in English
(Baumgarten, 2008). This can lead to the misunderstanding that a German addressee does not
recognize the directive and request that a native English speaker wants to convey in a given
situation.
The third exception I call ‘Parentese Plural’, in alignment with the term motherese in existing
literature. Here, the ‘we’ usage is employed in child directed speech. Bonding with the child takes
place, but at the same times motherese can be characterized as language that enables the child to
understand situational relationships. Parents provide their moral insight into human situations.
This process often involves directives and requests, which represent a negative face threat to the
child’s will. This is sometimes reduced by the usage of the ﬁrst person plural pronoun (we ¼ you).
(12) Mom: Das machen wir jetzt aber nicht!
We are not going to do that now.
(13) Adult: We sure are tired, aren’t we?
(14) Adult: Put some socks on. Our piggies are so cold.
(Tracy, 1983, p. 122)
Examples 12–14 represent direct and indirect directives and requests, where the reader can
immediately picture a child saying simply ‘No’. The (indirect) directive is clearly softened by the
usage of the inclusive ‘we’.
The fourth exception can be ‘Hospitalese Plural’. This is the plural employed in caretaker-
elderly and nurse/doctor-patient speech. The term hospitalese is borrowed from Börjars and
Grammatical and Sociolinguistic Aspects of the First Person Plural Pronoun 325
Burridge (2001, p. 57). In Germany, this type of speech in the professional ﬁeld of nurses and
doctors is considered to be reﬂective of a lack of respect for elderly people and patients. Nurses in
training are taught not use the ‘we’ plural in speech with elderly people due to the association with
child directed speech3
. However, it is still used by nurses and caretakers in some cases and might
also be seen as a kind of softening of negative face threats.
(15) Let’s eat up our brains and bacon now, shall we?
(Börjars & Burridge, 2001, p. 57)
(16) Haben wir heute unsere Tabletten wieder nicht genommen? Have we not taken our
pills again today?
The ﬁfth exception is the existing term ‘Pluralis Auctoris’ or ‘Editorial we’ that was mentioned
above (we ¼ I [þ Unknown You]). The Editorial ‘we’ is a speciﬁc kind of usage of ‘we’ in written
discourse that includes the reader/audience and can be seen as an involvement strategy. Often,
academic writing, research articles, lectures and teaching materials – more in the English than the
German context – use phrases such as
(17) [ . . . ] In both uses ‘lexical’ is the most common term and we will stick with this. So
we can say there is a lexical category ‘noun’ (Börjars & Burridge, 2001, p. 48).
So we say that, ‘‘ﬁrst person [plural] pronouns in academic discourse serve to [ . . . ] align the
reader with the writers’ perspective, and to express solidarity with the readership’’ (Baumgarten
2008, p. 412). In example (17), a section of a textbook, clearly the undergraduate student is the
addressee/reader and the goal is to engage the reader in the material.
The sixth exception is the usage of the existing term ‘Royal we’. The usage of ‘we’ in this
sense is more archaic and was used more often in English and German in former times (we ¼ I).
(18) We are not amused.
These can be considered relicts in modern English and German while an authorial plural is still
quite common for higher status people in some languages (Cysouw, 2005). Beginning with the 4th
century, emperors have been addressed with the second person plural pronoun and the plural in
this case is symbolic for the power of the person speaking (Brown & Gilman, 1960).
Through its inclusiveness, the ‘we’ pronoun is ambiguous in many speech settings. This
section showed that in German and English, it can be substituted for the ﬁrst person singular and
second person singular pronouns for face saving (modesty ‘we’, parentese ‘we’, hospitalese ‘we’)
and involvement (editorial ‘we’) strategies. In rare cases, it indicates power in situations where the
speaker has a very high status position (royal ‘we’). The different usages hint towards the multiple
3
Personal communication with elderly home quality auditor.
326 Inke Du Bois
connotations (politeness, solidarity, closeness, power) that are possible for the interpretation of
meaning of the ‘we’ pronoun.
5. NEW GRAMMATICAL CONSTRUCTIONS OF THE ‘WE’ PRONOUN IN MEDIA
DISCOURSE
In addition to the above-mentioned grammatical and semantic features, there are fairly new
developments in German more than in English concerning the grammatical usage of the ‘we’
pronoun. ‘We are pregnant’ is now sometimes uttered by a mother-to-be in reference to her
partner and herself. This utterance can increasingly be heard by German speakers as well; in
2008, there was even a German TV show named Wir sind schwanger! (‘We are pregnant!’).
Following, these new developments will be discussed in regard to their grammaticality.
According to German and English grammatical syntactic rules, the formation of these sentences
is ungrammatical and nonsensical, when both female and male partners are the noun phrase
referents.
(19) ? Wir sind schwanger!
? We are pregnant!
The predicate complement takes a female subject noun or pronoun. Only in the case of many
mothers-to-be speaking at the same time, the sentence would be grammatically correct.
The famous headline by the Bild newspaper, the most popular German tabloid, on 20 April
2005, when the German Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger was elected pope, was chosen second place
‘Word of the year 2005’ just behind Bundeskanzlerin (Chancellorþfemale sufﬁx) by the
Gesellschaft für deutsche Sprache (Society for the German Language).
(20) ? Wir sind Papst!
We are pope!
The headline changed the usage of the ‘we’ pronoun since its ﬁrst appearance. It is now used in
media and football contexts such as Wir sind Tim Wiese (‘We are Tim Wiese’), Tim Wiese being
the goal keeper of the Bremen football club Werder, or Wir sind Michael Ballack (‘We are Michael
Ballack’). Michael Ballack was the German national football team’s captain until he was injured
in 2010. This demonstrates group solidarity, be it as part of a national group or football team, or as
part of fan solidarity with one extraordinary player.
Further, the Mitteldeutsche Zeitung employed a singular noun with a female sufﬁx, which is
in a different way equally humorous. In German, traditionally female referents are included
in masculine proper nouns, but not the other way around (despite all politically correct
Grammatical and Sociolinguistic Aspects of the First Person Plural Pronoun 327
language use). When the German national women’s football team won the World Cup, its headline
said:
(21) ? Wir sind Weltmeisterin!
We are world champion (sg.þfem.)!
Since the referents are all Germans, men, women and children, the feminine singular sufﬁx is
even more unusual than the masculine singular due to the gender markedness of ‘Weltmeisterin’
in German semantics. The co-referential pronoun can only be a singular female noun or pronoun.
Despite this ungrammaticality, this construction is used in the German media and by the CDU
political party in Germany, as one can see in the following example.
Just a few years ago, the female gender sufﬁx in Kanzlerin was unthinkable, but in 2009, both
new constructions were united in a political party slogan
(21) ? Wir bleiben Kanzlerin!
We stay chancellor (sg.þfem.)!
The verb bleiben indicates that wir and Kanzlerin are co-referential. The subject complement,
however, is a singular feminine noun while the subject of the sentence is plural and the referents are
intended to be Germans or maybe Christian Democrats (the political party of Angela Merkel, the
chancellor). There are two grammatical impossibilities: the number aspect is not congruent and the
grammatical gender needs to be neutral and cannot be feminine. Examples (19–21) represent
ungrammatical sentences, but these constructions continue to be used by the media and political
parties as slogans and headlines to unite party followers or a national group towards a collective
identiﬁcation. It will be interesting to see if these constructions will be continued to be used.
6. SOCIOLINGUISTIC CONCERNS: ‘WE’ AND MEMBERSHIP CATEGORIES
Keeping the above in mind, the following sections focus on the usage and meaning of ‘we’ in
everyday discourse and in relation to the sociolinguistic factor time. Notably, in inclusive
languages such as German and English, the deictic pronoun ‘we’ does not encode the relations
between the objects and contexts, but the context provides the reference. This can be either
anaphorical, in reference to objects mentioned in discourse, or exophorical, in reference to objects
in the speech setting. For example, ‘here’ as an adverb of space could refer to a spot in an ofﬁce,
or it could refer to a house, a city, a nation, or even a continent. Similarly, the pronoun ‘we’ could
refer to a speaker and his or her addressees, or a group that includes the speaker and his or her
fellow nationals or even fellow national who passed away. The pronoun ‘we’ can therefore be
local and simultaneous, but it could also be distal and detached from time.
328 Inke Du Bois
Equally, reference ‘‘home’’ has a shifting referent . . . it stands as an alternative term to a range of
others. One can be ‘‘glad to be home’’ when one gets back to the United States, to New York
State, New York City, the neighborhood, the house, etc. (With ﬂights to the moon, a Soviet
astronout may soon announce the Russian equivalent of ‘‘it’s good to be home’’ upon splashing
down in the Paciﬁc Ocean.) A locational analysis allows one to see how ‘‘home’’ is being used.
(Schegloff, 1972, p. 89)
The indexicality of pronouns functions on several levels. One is the overt mentioning of
subjective position by labelling a statement with the ‘I’ or ‘we’ pronoun with adjunct phrases,
such as ‘‘I, as an American living abroad’’ or ‘‘‘we’ Germans’’. Different identity categories often
circulate and are juxtaposed in discourse, and the linguistic expressions that coincide with them
are indicative of subjectivity as ‘‘ideological associations with both large scale and local
categories of identity’’ (Buchholtz & Hall 2005, p. 591).
The ‘we’ pronoun also signiﬁes inclusion of oneself and other group members and the
exclusion of out-group members (Duszak, 2002). Membership categories may be classiﬁcations of
a person such as woman-man and professor-student (Sacks, 1992). Speakers use them ‘‘as the
inferences are rich in that a great deal of knowledge that members have about a society is available
through these categories’’ (McIlvenny, 1996, p. 18).
In variationist sociolinguistics (Labov, 1966), large samples of speakers are commonly
examined with regard to one or more speciﬁc linguistic item, such as vowels or consonants
to identify group commonalities, such as social class or sex. The focus on social categories
is helpful in identifying linguistic features in large-scale groups, but fails to discover the
more ﬂexible and ﬂuid nature of identity construction as it evolves in communication with
others.
Hutchby and Woofﬁtt (1998) argue that the membership category of the interlocutor has an
impact on the validity of a claim. Hence, a member of a category can be an expert of
attributes associated with that category. Categories such as doctor, mother, mechanic and
Mexican-American are inference rich because of the cultural connotations that are associated
with them. A member of a category is then also a representative of this category, which
coincides with expectations, rights and obligations that a member of a category has. For
example, if someone is categorized by their professional identity as a doctor, they will be
expected to be able to give medical advice to friends, help out in an emergency in an airplane,
etc. However, a member of a category may want to resist being interpreted by another group
or person through a speciﬁc category, or might even try to hide being a member of a certain
category.
In a critical discourse analysis on George W. Bush’s speech in October 2002, Hodges (2007)
ﬁnds that former US president Bush adequates and juxtaposes Sadam Hussein with Osama Bin
Laden to argue for the danger that is represented by Iraq.
Grammatical and Sociolinguistic Aspects of the First Person Plural Pronoun 329
(22)
The attacks of September the 11th showed our country that vast oceans no longer
protect us from danger. Before that tragic date we had only hints of Al-Quaeda’s plans
and designs. Today in Iraq we see a threat whose outlines are far more clearly deﬁned
and whose consequences could be far more deadly. Saddam Hussein’s actions have put
us on notice and there is no refuge from our responsibilities. (Hodges, 2007, p. 73)
Through this rhetorical adequation and an extensive use of ﬁrst person plural pronouns Bush
strives to address Americans’ national collective identity uniﬁed against a threat from the outside
Al-Quaeda and Saddam Hussein. The boundaries delimiting the pronouns that refer to the
government and those that refer to the American public are quite blurry. There are relatively few
studies that systematically investigate the represented content and contextual positioning
(Yamaguchi, 2006). The speaker does not only represent or describe the narrated event
(denotational meaning) but at the same time acts and positions itself vis-à-vis the interlocutors in
the narrating event (indexical meaning). There is a partial interrelation between the repre-
sentational and interactional functions because these processes occur simultaneously.
It is not only in political debates, but also in everyday social interaction that speakers draw on
the same rhetorical devices to position themselves in a society or distance themselves from the
same, while using these devices to achieve listeners’ consent.
This positioning of FU and UT is, however, a more complex process for immigrants who
identify themselves with two nations and simultaneously distance themselves from the same
during discourse, as evidenced in Germans residing in the United States (Du Bois, 2007). For
them, there exists a ‘‘favorable us’’ (FU) as Germans and as Europeans living in the U.S. With
their pronominal choices, speakers take a subjective stance within in the intersectional space of the
two cultures of which they are a part.
6.1. Subjectivity through the ‘we’ pronoun in discourse
Subjectivity in an intersectional space is illustrated through a sociolinguistic study which
investigates the ‘we’ pronoun based on 30 biographical interviews. The interview length varied
from 20 minutes to approximately 2 hours and from 1,924 words to 15,357 words. The interviews
were transcribed in their entirety (Du Bois, 2010). The participants in the study are Americans
who immigrated to Germany as adults aged between 21 and 51 years; their average age was
33 years. The group of informants represents an extreme case sampling, i.e. the Americans
interviewed have very wide ranging backgrounds in regard to their length of residence
in Germany, namely between 1.5 and 39 years, (with a mean of 14.7 years), age (from 32 to
79 years), social status (unemployed, janitors, English teachers, carpenters, former diplomats
and wealthy individuals) and ethnic background (European American, African American, and
Jewish of European descent). This information becomes relevant in the quantitative analysis.
330 Inke Du Bois
6.2. Transcription symbols
CAPS stressed syllable/lexeme
@ laughter
? high rising intonation
oallW fast speech
(2.0) pause in seconds
((coughing)) paralinguistic or nonverbal acts
[ofﬁce
hours]
translation
6.3. ‘We’ in reference to national cultural afﬁliation
In all interviews, the Americans identify themselves in one way or the other as members of a
German group when they employed the ﬁrst person plural pronoun ‘we’. The functional
annotations of the pronoun deixis ‘we’ in general refers to ‘‘‘we’, who live in Germany’’ as the
Americans identify themselves as German residents in a professional context; in a family context
with their German wives, husbands, partners and parents-in-law; and in friendship contexts.
6.3.1. ‘We’ in Germany – ‘they’ in America. The example below represents a shift in the pronoun
deixis regarding the ﬁrst person plural pronoun ‘we’ and the third person plural pronoun ‘‘they’’.
The focus of analysis is the referent ‘‘‘we’ in Germany’’. Notably, George W. Bush was president
at the time.
Excerpt 1 (lines 519–541)
519 J yeah my family when I talk to my parents they supported
520 they supported the war they supported the president they
521 still do um and we didn’t talk about it very much (4.0)
522 Int yeah I totally noticed that too just how different the
523 media portrays it here is amazing I mean that inﬂuences
524 you
525 J oh it’s huge it’s really huge and I don’t have um I have
526 never taken the time to compare newspapers but someone
527 and it was probably my girlfriend that’s involved in the
528 government said that she would you know read about um
529 the situation in the German newspaper and a UK
530 newspaper and the like the Washington Post in the U.S.
531 and she said it was really amazing how different the
532 situation was reported and some details that we had here in
533 Germany -the details -either they didn’t have the details-
Grammatical and Sociolinguistic Aspects of the First Person Plural Pronoun 331
534 or they didn’t write about them perhaps because it wasn’t
535 sensational enough or someone said that they
536 SHOULDN’T include it, I don’t know but I feel that the
537 information that we get in Europe is better than the
538 information the Americans get I really feel that American
539 press the information that eventually reaches the people is
540 really heavily ﬁltered um and that there’s a direction that
541 they want to guide the people and that I don’t I don’t like
In this excerpt, Jesse depicts the differences in political views between her parents and herself.
In line 532, she aligns herself as a European resident and the ‘we’ pronoun clearly refers to her in
the context with other German residents. As a contrast, she distances herself from the
‘‘Americans’’ in the United States by employing the third person plural pronoun ‘they’, who are
informed by different media and who are located in a different national cultural space. Jessie
aligns herself with Germans and Europeans, and distances herself from Americans, which is
transparent through the use of the pronouns ‘we’ referring to Germans and European residents and
‘they’ referring to Americans.
6.3.2. ‘We’ with shifting referents. In the following example, Max employs a similar usage of the
ﬁrst person plural pronoun to index belonging to a German national group in contrast to his
American relatives as well.
Excerpt 2 (lines 460–529)
460 M When I’m over in the States on a visit in 1995 for the ﬁrst
461 time my brother Doug said ‘‘OH! Do you even still have
462 your American passport? Have you been paying your
463 taxes?’’ In 1989 only four years after I left the country my
464 sister Beth who is a banker said ‘‘You know it’s a
465 FELONY if you don’t FILE the American stuff.’’ And I
466 said ‘‘I’m living on the economy in Germany and they’ll
467 just have to chase me down then I’ll turn myself in.’’ So
468 there is stuff like people uncomfortable with the fact that
469 I’m assimilating or becoming and émigré a permanent
470 expatriate for life you know and they’re saying ‘‘Wow you
471 know what a head trip. What is going on with Max- is he
472 becoming German or not. NO! And then my COUSIN
473 who interpreted for me in ﬁrst grade whispering so I
474 would understand everything because I was so SHY
475 Int Hum
476 M He was twenty-eight and I was twenty-eight and we were
332 Inke Du Bois
477 both the same age and after three years in Germany he
478 never said anything he thought I was perfectly CRUEL in
479 1993 we were going out in a boat talking about a kilometer
480 out on the ocean on a catamaran just TALKING he goes
481 ‘‘You’re using more and more idioms and metaphors it’s
482 like you’re ﬁnding phrases it’s like you’re so RUSTY!
483 You have to use all of these STOCK phrases would you
484 please speak normal (laughter) I said give me another
485 week I said give me a break (laughter) He just
486 laughed but we’ve had you know this very very
487 VISCERAL connection ever since we became very close
488 friends as cousins in ﬁrst grade and saw each other for
489 FIVE summers in New Jersey so we kind of not talked for
490 four years and after three or four minutes it was like bang
491 bang bang this is what happened here and so people uh
492 ﬁnd it a little bit difﬁcult to accept the fact that I did not
493 follow the advice of my two professors when I LEFT in
494 1985 but those are of course things you remember what
495 you don’t remember is how quietly accepting all the other
496 people are about your having left and just supporting you
497 by NOT saying it but SHOWING it so I don’t think it’s
498 fair for you to say MY FAMILY and MY FRIENDS are
499 looking at me with this big question mark I’m just saying
500 there’s a few people who sort of say ‘‘Hum I could never
501 do that and they’re just projecting and I’m thinking OK
502 that’s ﬁne and I smile and throw metaphors or clichés past
503 them I speak in clichés until I get it because there’s so
504 much new language so much new language people were
505 talking about cappuccino bars in the late 80 s early 90 s
506 and I have no CLUE and they’re offering me these
507 ﬂavored coffees we never had in the 70 s and 80 s and then
508 we’re talking about the SITCOMS and my uncle’s home
509 where I often stayed TV really was on from eight in the
510 morning til eleven at night and I thought this is really
511 something I cannot get INTO So I was perceiving these
512 people as more and more different from what is normal for
513 me and the people I trust that I would COMMENT to
514 uncandidly (--) about the fact that there’s this DISCORD
515 happening my life is growing in this direction and I’m
516 perfectly happy to come by ‘‘WHAT is the political system
517 like over there?’’, my cousin would say my other cousin
Grammatical and Sociolinguistic Aspects of the First Person Plural Pronoun 333
518 who I talk with a lot and I would say ‘‘Do you mean who’s
519 the president, or how he got voted in, Well there is no
520 President. We have the CHANCELLOR!’’ ‘‘Oh that sounds
521 like the WAR’’ I’m going ‘‘Come on cut it out’’ so next
522 time I came I gave him a big huge book on German
523 political history’’ and he READ IT and the next time we
524 saw each other on the beach two years later he started
525 talking about all these things he learned in the book so
526 people commenting about my having become an
527 expatriate it was done in a very NICE way in a GENTLE
528 way or in a KIDDING way there was never any STRIFE
529 but there was HONESTY
In this excerpt, Max changes subjective positions in terms of linguistic and national
identiﬁcation, he employs a variety of pronouns and indexical nouns (e.g. line 511 ‘‘these people’’
for Americans and American relatives). On the other hand, he indexes numerous different
referents when he employs the ﬁrst person plural pronoun ‘we’ in this excerpt. The pronoun
signiﬁes his cousin and him and their close relationship, and later notably, a ‘‘generational
American ‘we’’’ when he reﬂects his language attrition and loss of knowledge about cultural
changes in the United States (line 507: ‘‘they are giving me ﬂavored coffees ‘we’ never had in the
sixties or seventies’’). He contrasts his estrangement from the American culture, when he
reproduces a dialogue with his American family who ask him about the political system in
Germany. Max ﬁnally employs the ﬁrst person plural pronoun as it pertains to him and Germans,
which creates a distance and divide previously introduced by the questions of his family members
as he switches to a German ‘we’ in ‘‘‘We’ have the chancellor’’. The change of pronoun use and
its referents in their discursive contexts is signiﬁcant in that the referents and identiﬁcations
change in between statements and within stories.
When Max takes on the voice of his relatives (line 461–463: ‘‘Have you paid your taxes? Do
you still have your American passport?’’) who question his Americanness after 25 years, he
positions himself in alignment with German nationals as a counterpart. In the end of the narrative,
he resolves the divide by teaching and telling his American family about the German socio-
political system; the ‘we’ signiﬁes him and his close American cousin again.
The analyses illustrate how the referents are sometimes clear and stable, but in other interview
discourse stretches the referents for the ﬁrst person plural pronoun shift from turn to turn.
6.4. Length of residence in years and ‘we’
The following section represents the correlation between the extra-linguistic factor length of
time the participants had spent in Germany and the linguistic factor number of referents for the
334 Inke Du Bois
‘we’ pronoun. A total of 1,360 occurrences of ‘we’ and its declinations occurred throughout all
interviews and were annotated and coded in 16 ﬁne categories. The 16 categories were ﬁnally
classiﬁed into two different groups of the ﬁrst person plural pronoun, ‘‘‘We’ Americans’’ and
‘‘‘We’ in Germany’’ for a statistical analysis.
6.4.1. ‘We’ Americans and length of residence in Germany. A negative correlation between the
length of residence and the identiﬁcation with ‘we’ referencing to American groups was identiﬁed
(Figure 14.1). Each dot represents one American speaker, their length of residence in Germany
(from 1 to 40 years) and the usage of the pronoun per 1,000 words in the interview.
The graph above illustrates that the longer the participants had lived in Germany, the less they
employed the ﬁrst person plural pronoun in reference to an American group context (r ¼ –.31;
po.05). This negative correlation indicates that for this group, there is a relationship between the
time spent in the host country and the way the participants employ the ﬁrst person plural pronoun
as members of American groups.
6.4.2. ‘We’ in Germany and length of residence. On the other hand, there was a positive
correlation between the deictic pronoun ‘we’ referring to interviewees’ belonging to a German
group and the length of residence (Figure 14.2).
Correspondingly, there is a positive correlation between the employment of ‘we’ and the
length of time the American participants had resided in Germany (r ¼ .32; po.05). The data
40,00
30,00
20,00
10,00
0,00
Length of Residence
4,00
3,00
2,00
1,00
0,00
We
Americans
R-Quadrat linear = 0,099
Figure 14.1. Usage of ‘we’: Americans and time.
Grammatical and Sociolinguistic Aspects of the First Person Plural Pronoun 335
analysis suggests that time is a strong factor that correlates with the employment of ‘we’ as it
refers to groups. The results illustrate that the original American in-group identity as identiﬁed
with the usage of the pronoun ‘we’ becomes weaker, and that the participants identify more with
the German out-group, the longer they live in their host country Germany.
7. CONCLUSION
The aim of this paper is to provide an insight into the complex semantic and grammatical
features of the ﬁrst person plural pronoun in English and German. The referents are ambiguous
through the fact that the ‘we’ pronoun is inclusive and highly dependent on the discourse context.
This could be illustrated by contrasting the ‘we’ and ‘wir’ pronouns with languages that
distinguish between inclusive/exclusive usage and which have different number categories such as
dual, trial and plural. Further, six cases were identiﬁed where the referents of plural are not plural,
but singular. The ‘we’ pronoun can thus be differently employed for politeness strategies,
recipient solidarity and as a linguistic symbol of power. The ‘we’ pronoun does not always have
its traditional collective identity denotation as it does political speech, but it can be used for
mitigating negative face threats in child directed speech, elderly speech and, in general, within
40,0
0
30,0
0
20,0
0
10,0
0
0,0
0
Length of Residence
2,0
0
1,5
0
1,0
0
0,5
0
0,0
0
‘We’
in
Germany
R-Quadrat linear =
0,103
Figure 14.2. ‘We’ in Germany and time.
336 Inke Du Bois
directives and requests. In these cases, the referent can be a singular ‘‘I’’ or ‘‘you’’. Finally, the
ﬁrst person plural pronoun is used with singular subject complements in German. This linguistic
invention by the German media serves as a collective identiﬁer for national groups, political
parties and football fans. Further research in sociolinguistics, language typology, grammar and
semantics needs to be conducted on how inclusive languages deal with the lack of distinction in
number categories and inclusive/exclusive distinctions.
Investigating the overall employment of the pronoun ‘we’ in a longitudinal trend study reveals
that the length of time spent in Germany leads to stronger identiﬁcation with Germans and in a
weaker identiﬁcation as Americans. Using different methods of analysis provides a broader view
into micro (discourse analytic) and macro (diachronic variationist style) processes of language
use. There need to be more systematic analytic frameworks for dealing with the ‘we’ pronoun as it
indicates membership, collective identity and subjective positions. This chapter intended to
provide a further systematic access to the different functions, referents and grammatical conditions
for the ﬁrst person plural pronoun at the cross-section of the above-mentioned linguistic subﬁelds.
REFERENCES
Auer, P. (1999). Sprachliche Interaktion. Eine Einführung anhand von 22 Klassikern. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Baumgarten, N. (2008). Writer construction in English and German popularized academic discourse: The uses
of we and wir. Multilingua, 27(4), 409–438.
Bickel, B., & Nichols, J. (2005). Areal patterns in the world atlas of language structure. Paper presented at the
6th Biannual Conference of the Association for Linguistic Typology, Padang, 24 July 2005.
Bickel, B., & Nichols, J. (2005). Inclusive-exclusive as person vs. number categories worldwide. In
E. Filimonova (Ed.), Clusivity. Typological and case studies of the inclusive-exclusive distinction
(pp. 47–70). Padang and Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Börjars, K., & Burridge, K. (2001). Introducing English grammar. London: Hodder Education Publishing.
Brown, P., & Levinson, S. C. (1987). Politeness: Some universals in language usage. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Brown, R., & Gilman, A. (1960). The pronouns of power and solidarity. In T. A. Sebeok (Ed.), Style in
language (pp. 253–276). MA: MIT Press.
Buchholtz, M., & Hall, K. (2005). Identity and interaction: A sociocultural approach. Discourse Studies,
7(4/5), 585–612.
Capps, L., & Ochs, E. (2002). Cultivating Prayer. In Cecilia E. Ford, Barbara A. Fox & Sandra A. Thompson
(Eds.), The Language of Turn and Sequence, (pp. 39–55). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Crystal, D. (2003). The Cambridge Encyclopedia of the English language (2nd ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Cysouw, M. (2005). Inclusive/exclusive forms of ‘we’. In M. Dryer, M. Haspelmath, D. Gil & B. Comrie
(Eds.), World atlas of language structures (pp. 162–169). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Daniel, M. (2005). Understanding inclusives. In E. Filimonova (Ed.), Clusivity. Typological and case studies
of the inclusive-exclusive distinction (pp. 3–48). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Grammatical and Sociolinguistic Aspects of the First Person Plural Pronoun 337
Du Bois, I. (2007). Germans in the United States. Reinventing German immigrant identities in discourse.
Saarbrücken: VDM Verlag.
Du Bois, I. (2010). Discursive constructions of immigrant identity : A sociolinguistic trend study on long-term
American immigrants. Frankfurt: Peter Lang Publishing.
Du Bois, I., & Baumgarten, N. (2008). ‘It was my life. I was single. I had a job’. Die Konstruktion
professioneller Identität im Migrationskontext. US-amerikanische Expatriates und Immigranten in
Deutschland. In J. Erfurt & M. Amelina (Eds.), Elitenmigration und Mehrsprachigkeit (pp. 43–67).
Osnabrücker Beiträge zur Sprachtheorie (Vol. 75).
Duszak, A. (2002). Us and others: Social identities across languages, discourses and cultures. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Filimonova, E. (Ed.). (2005). Clusivity. Typological and case studies of the inclusive-exclusive distinction.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hanks, W. (2000). The ﬁve gourds of memory. In W. Hanks (Ed.), Intertexts: Writings on language, utterance,
and context (pp. 197–217). Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littleﬁeld Publishers Inc.
Hodges, A. (2007). The narrative construction of identity: The adequation of Saddam Hussein and Osama Bin
Laden in the ‘‘war on terror’’. In A. Hodges & C. Nilep (Eds.), Discourse, war and terrorism.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Howe, S. (1996). The personal pronouns in the Germanic languages: A study of personal pronoun morphology
and change in the Germanic languages from the ﬁrst records to the present day. In Studia Linguistica
Germanica (Vol. 43). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Hutchby, I., & Woofﬁtt, R. (1998). Conversation analysis. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishers.
Labov, W. (1966). The social stratiﬁcation of English in New York City. Washington, DC: Center for Applied
Linguistics.
McIlvenny, P. (1996). Popular public discourse at Speakers’ Corner: negotiating cultural identities in
interaction. Discourse and society, 7(1), 7–37.
Mühlhäusler, P., & Harré, R. (1990). We: Speaking for more than one. In P. Mühlhäusler & R. Harré (Eds.),
Pronouns and people: The linguistic construction of social and personal identity. Cambridge:
Blackwell Publishing.
Sacks, H. (1992). Lectures on conversation (Vol. I). Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
Schegloff, E. A. (1972). Notes on a conversational practice: Formulating place. In D. Sudnow (Ed.), Studies in
social interaction (pp. 75–119). New York, NY: Free Press.
Tracy, R. (1983). Cognitive processes and the acquisition of grammar. In G. Rau (Ed.), Essays on deixis
(pp. 99–148). Tübingen: Narr.
Yamaguchi, M. (2006). Discursive representation and enactment of national identities: A case of generation
1.5 Japanese. Discourse in society, 16(2), 269–299.
338 Inke Du Bois
Subjectivity in Language and in Discourse
Edited by Nicole Baumgarten, Inke Du Bois and Juliane House
r 2012 by Emerald Group Publishing Limited. All rights reserved.
15
SUBJECTIVITY IN ACADEMIC DISCOURSE:
A CROSS-LINGUISTIC COMPARISON OF THE
AUTHOR’S PRESENCE IN FRENCH, ITALIAN AND
GERMAN RESEARCH ARTICLES IN LINGUISTICS
Nadine Rentel
1. INTRODUCTION
Academic discourse, in its written as well as in its oral realization, is characterized by
textual norms and conventions that are closely related to the languages and cultures they stem
from:
It is common knowledge that the degree of cultural dissimilarity has serious impact on
intercultural communication and academic communication in particular. (Vassileva, 2000, p. 25)
These textual norms inﬂuence, e.g., the structure of a text, strategies of argumentation,
the choice of linguistic means to express different communicative needs, and the degree of
subjectivity, i.e. the linguistic presence of the author in his or her text and his or her position
toward its contents. The analysis takes into account the hypothesis that, in times of the growing
internationalization of science and research and English dominating the academic exchange
worldwide as a lingua franca, culture-speciﬁc textual norms and traditions might disappear. This
would mean that a research article written in German is structured and elaborated linguistically
exactly in the same way as an English text or that there exist no differences between German and
French or Italian academic texts.
Like every other kind of communication, academic discourse can be described as the social
and linguistic interaction between the author and the reader of a text. The aim of the author of
an academic text does not consist in presenting research results as an absolute and objective
truth, but the text refers to the author who is responsible for the information presented. The
linguistic manifestation of this authorial presence – i.e. the expression of subjectivity
concerning, e.g., attitudes toward the opinion of other authors, judgments about the methods,
and research results of other members of the scientiﬁc community – may vary considerably
across languages.
In the last decade, academic discourse, and especially the linguistic manifestation of the author
in the text, has been the subject of many studies. Nevertheless, in most studies, English has been
analyzed as the lingua franca of academic discourse (cf. Hyland, 1996a, 1996b, 1998, 1999; with
a focus on the authorial presence in his later studies in 2001 and 2002). Also in language-
contrastive studies, English usually appears as one of the languages under investigation
(cf. Mauranen, 1992, 1993). Few analyses exist that compare more than two languages, and
Romance languages, especially Italian, have not yet been analyzed in depth at all (see, however,
the comparison of Spanish and English by Moreno, 1997), although there is considerable
scientiﬁc production, e.g., in French in certain disciplines (cf. the KIAP project, which compares
and contrasts research articles in French, English, and Norwegian; Breivega, Dahl, & Fløttum,
2002). The aim of the present study is to close this gap and to establish categories of linguistic
structures that help to express subjectivity in French, Italian, and German research articles in
Linguistics. On the one hand, we will identify intercultural differences, and on the other hand, we
will point out similarities.
Based on an empirical analysis of 20 contemporary research articles in different ﬁelds of
linguistics1
in each of the three languages, the study identiﬁes two central communicative
needs (or rhetorical moves) of the text type containing the expression of subjectivity and their
typical linguistic realizations. The notion of subjectivity may concern, among other things,
the author’s linguistic evaluation of the relevance of the scientiﬁc inquiry, the quality of the
methodological approaches on which other researchers base their studies, the conclusions that
other researchers draw from their data, and the judgment of the quality of the author’s own
results.
1
This allows us to cover a wide range of linguistic phenomena of this academic discipline, such as
phonetics, morphology, syntax, semantics, lexicology, historical linguistics, and dialectology. The
academic journals that have been analyzed are the following: Linguistik Online, Zeitschrift für
Germanistische Linguistik, Zeitschrift für Angewandte Linguistik for the German corpus, Rivista di
Linguistica, Rivista Italiana di Linguistica e di Dialettologia, Rivista di Psicolinguistica Applicata for
the Italian corpus, and Revue de Linguistique Romane, Revue Franc
-aise de Linguistique Appliquée for
the French corpus. Some of the journals contain articles in English that have been excluded from the
analysis. The articles of our corpus have been published between 2005 and 2007.
340 Nadine Rentel
After a short introduction into the basic methodology for the comparison of languages and
cultures (the so-called tertium comparationis), we will discuss the notion of subjectivity as it
is understood in the present study. As subjectivity is closely related to the concepts of
metadiscourse and evaluation, we will brieﬂy present a typology and subcategories of these
notions. We will then present the results of the empirical analysis (pointing out differences as
well as similarities) limiting ourselves to two central communicative needs or rhetorical
moves of academic research articles (‘stating a gap’ and ‘promoting own results’). As the
study is not strictly quantitatively oriented, we will put the focus on the detailed discussion
of the communicative function of some selected linguistic categories as they seem typical for
the corpus, due to their occurrence in numerous examples. As a consequence, the linguistic
means mentioned in the tables do not make the claim of completeness, but they aim at
giving an overview, representing in an exemplary manner different possibilities of expressing
evaluation.
2. THE THEORETICAL FRAMEWORK
After a short discussion of the methodological framework for language comparison, we will
deﬁne the notion of evaluation as it is understood for the present study, and introduce the relevant
part of appraisal theory.
2.1. The principle of linguistic comparison: the tertium comparationis
Before comparing a linguistic phenomenon or whole texts in two or more different languages
and cultures, it is essential to deﬁne an objective category of reference that does not depend on
one of the involved languages. Spillner (1997, p. 110) points out the need to ﬁx a ‘‘transcultural
deep structure,’’ based on which the ways of linguistic realizations in different cultures and
languages can be investigated:
Tertium comparationis kann weder eine gemeinsame Bezeichnung noch eine funktionale
Ähnlichkeit sein, sondern nur eine semantisch-funktionale Kategorie, die von den beiden zu
vergleichenden Sprachen/Kulturen unabhängig ist. Es lässt sich als ‘tertium comparationis’ eine
einzelsprachenunabhängige Metalingua bzw. eine transkulturelle Tiefenstruktur ansetzen und
dann nach den Realisierungsmöglichkeiten bzw. Realisierungen in den jeweiligen Ländern/
Kulturen/Sprachen fragen. (p. 110)
[Tertium comparationis can neither be a common designation nor a functional similarity,
but has to be considered as a semantic-functional category that does not depend on the
languages and cultures that will be compared. The tertium comparationis can be deﬁned as a
Subjectivity in academic discourse 341
language-independent metalanguage or as a transcultural deep structure. Based on these
reﬂections, we can then ask for the linguistic realization in individual languages and cultures.
Translation N.R.]
Thus, it is important to start from the function of a linguistic phenomenon and not from the
linguistic form because the latter would be a language-speciﬁc perspective and automatically lead
to ‘comparisons’ that do not take into account the linguistic function. It is in this regard appraisal
theory is applied in the present analysis.
2.2. Evaluation and appraisal theory
As already mentioned, communication in general and academic discourse in particular is
characterized by the linguistic and social interaction of the author with his or her public. In the
present context, this type of interaction is referred to as ‘metadiscourse,’ i.e. ‘‘the linguistic
and rhetorical manifestation of an author’s presence in the text’’ (Crismore & Farnsworth, 1990,
p. 118). The concept of metadiscourse relates to the presence of the author behind the factual
information he presents and therefore to the linguistic ‘traces’ he or she leaves in his text. The
linguistic presence of the author can manifest itself on different levels of the text, e.g., in devices
that serve to structure the text and guide the reader or in linguistic means that help to express the
author’s attitude toward the propositions of the text. This last aspect is deﬁned by Thompson and
Hunston (2000) as ‘evaluation’:
Evaluation is the expression of the speaker or writer’s attitude or stance towards, viewpoints on,
feelings about entities or propositions that he or she is talking about. (p. 5)
As a consequence, evaluation can be considered as one subordinated function of the notion of
metadiscourse. Evaluation, or more precisely, the authorial stance toward the contents of text, is
closely related to the notion of subjectivity. The question will therefore be to uncover how the
author’s presence, i.e. his or her subjective and evaluative remarks, is reﬂected linguistically and
whether the German, French, and Italian authors also make use of impersonal linguistic strategies
in order to convey the impression of scientiﬁc objectivity or not.
Appraisal theory is concerned with ‘‘the language of evaluation, attitude and emotion’’
(Ellsworth, 1991). It is closely related to the phenomenon of evaluation. Speciﬁcally, appraisal
theory is concerned with the linguistic resources through which authors express, negotiate, and
naturalize their positions in their texts. Appraisal consists of three subcategories: attitude
(emotional or affective evaluation), engagement (resources for positioning the author’s voice with
respect to the propositions and proposals conveyed by a text, e.g., by means of modals of
probability, attributions, reality phases), and graduation (intensifying or weakening the degree of
342 Nadine Rentel
authorial subjectivity). Attitudinal appraisal plays a less important role in academic discourse than
in evaluative text types, such as critical reviews, but the author’s engagement is constantly present
in research articles when he or she adopts evaluative positions toward information they represent
as deriving from outside sources. Finally, the category of graduation becomes relevant when
investigating the linguistic strategies helping the author to intensify or to weaken the degree of
subjectivity expressed. This can be especially important when he or she wants to avoid the loss
of his or her face when identifying himself or herself, for instance with an overt criticism of
previous work.
3. RESULTS
In the present study, we start from the textual function of research articles and investigate the
linguistic realization of two central communicative needs. The diametrically opposed rhetorical
moves we focus on are the ‘presentation and promotion of the results of own research’ on the one
hand and the ‘critical discussion of studies that have already been carried out to state a gap in
current research’ on the other hand. In order to legitimate their own study, most authors refer to
the need to carry it out by identifying a gap in the current research situation. We will look at the
different ways in which the authors manifest themselves in these contexts in French, Italian, and
German texts.
3.1. Stating a gap
The analysis shows that the linguistic strategies that authors use in order to state a gap in
existing studies (and thus underlining the relevance and the importance of the own study) are quite
similar in the French and in the Italian texts (see Table 15.1). Authors make frequent use of
syntactic negation as well as of lexical units with negative semantic value, and concessive clauses.
Enumerations of (rhetorical) questions and exclamations, by means of which the authors underline
the importance of their own approach, seem to be characteristic of the French texts as they do not
occur at all in the Italian and the German texts. This indicates the degree to which academic texts
are inﬂuenced by language and culture-speciﬁc rhetoric traditions. Conversely, passive voice is
frequently used in the German research articles when the authors refer in an impersonal way to
research gaps they intend to close with their study. It has to be mentioned, however, that passive
voice is characteristic of many different text types in German and cannot be considered as
constitutive feature of academic discourse. Similar to the Italian and French authors, the German
authors make use of syntactic and lexical negation for realizing the communicative need of stating
a gap. The following examples taken from the corpus illustrate the speciﬁc functions of these
linguistic categories.
Subjectivity in academic discourse 343
3.1.1. Syntactic negation. For the purposes of underlining the shortcomings of existing
studies, authors of French, Italian, and German research articles use syntactic negation. This
linguistic device allows the authors to express their criticism in a communicatively very direct
way. Syntactic negation allows them, among other things, to point out the lack of detailed
and appropriate studies as well as the fact that existing methodological approaches are not
convincing:
(1) L’appartenenza del segmento ﬁnale, però, non spiega tutto.
[ . . . does not explain everything]
(2) Cependant, ni ce terme, ni celui de lexicalisation ne ﬁgure dans l’indexe des termes et
des relations.
[ . . . neither this technical term nor that of lexicalization appear in . . . ]
(3) [ . . . ] une description linguistique de deux lexèmes italiens dont on ne dispose pas
encore de traitement systématique.
[ . . . for which we still do not have systematic treatment]
Table 15.1. Syntactic and lexical means for stating a gap
German Italian French
Syntactic negation |a
| |
Passive |
Passiveþmodal verbs |
Concessive clauses | |
Lexical negation
Negative quantiﬁers | | |
Adverbs | | |
Adjectives | | |
Verbs and nouns | | |
Exclamations and questions |
a
The symbol | refers to the fact that a linguistic phenomenon occurs (frequently) in our corpus. We did not
include single instances of linguistic strategies as we want to point out those strategies that can be considered
as characteristic for the text type in different languages. In order to get a general overview of the culture-
speciﬁc language use in linguistic research articles, the focus of our study is a qualitative one; as a
consequence, we do not provide exact quantitative/statistical results.
344 Nadine Rentel
(4) In der wissenschaftlichen Behandlung der Intermedialität aber gibt es noch keine
systematische Deﬁnition.
[ . . . there is no systematic deﬁnition yet]
In examples (3) and (4), the authors highlight the fact that a research problem has not yet been
exhaustively (‘‘systematically’’) treated, due to a lack of appropriate theories, methods, and
deﬁnitions. By this rhetorical move, they legitimatize at the same time their own studies that have
become necessary to (‘‘systematically’’) close the gap they identiﬁed.
In some Italian texts, syntactic negation occurs together with so-called hedging phenomena
(see the detailed discussion of the function of hedging in the context of ‘promoting own research
results’ in Section 3.2.2). In the texts analyzed, negation is combined with the tentative verb
sembrare, with which the author weakens his or her claim, pointing out that his or her criticism is
based on his or her individual competence.
(5) La sonorità non sembra essere un criterio sufﬁciente [ . . . ]
[ . . . does not seem to be a sufﬁcient criterion]
In (5), the author is aware of the fact that other researchers could interpret the facts in a different way
and, as a consequence, leaves room for a falsiﬁcation of his or her claims and conclusions. Hedging
phenomena like the one in (5) are a good example of the degrees to which an author can become
linguistically present in his or her text, i.e. by referring to degrees of certainty (or uncertainty)
regarding the truth of the propositions made. We will come across more examples of the use of
hedging phenomena in the context of the authors’ promotion of their own research results.
3.1.2. Lexical units with a negative semantic value. In all three languages, the lexical units (verbs,
adjectives, and nouns) with a negative semantic denotation found in the corpus are either
embedded in impersonal syntactic structures or simple declarative clauses. Examples (6)–(8)
illustrate negative evaluation with adjectives.
(6) Gli studi sulla memoria condotti da una prospettiva glottodidattica sono scarsi.
[ . . . are rare]
(7) Une telle approche s’avère insufﬁsante. [ . . . turn out to be insufﬁcient]
(8) Das Problem der Entstehung der germanischen Runen und des runischen
Schreibsystems gilt als ungelöst.
[ . . . is considered as unsolved]
The use of personal pronouns or other linguistic means which would give the reader the idea that
there is a responsible author behind the information presented in the text is rare. From this strategy
of depersonalization (or ‘objectiﬁcation’), consisting in presenting ‘facts’ seemingly as they are,
Subjectivity in academic discourse 345
without any personal bias, the reader could gather that the author tries to express his or her
criticism very carefully, avoiding the identiﬁcation of his or her person with the claim. This is also
the case in examples (8)–(12) in which the author refers in an impersonal (‘objective’) way to
methodological problems in studies by other authors, in this way promoting the need to carry out
new analyses or to review a research problem:
(9) In molte opere del periodo manca del tutto. [... it lacks everything]
(10) Ce qui conduit à remettre en cause le bien-fondé du terme proposition concessive. [This
leads to reconsidering . . . ]
(11) Jusque-là toutes les descriptions morphologiques ont ignoré le ﬁgement. [ . . . all
descriptions . . . have ignored]
(12) Il reste par conséquent un grand nombre de questions ouvertes. [a large number of open
questions remain]
The strategy of depersonalization supports the impression of an objective discussion of the
weaknesses of existing studies. The author does not leave linguistic traces of his or her
personality in the text. Strategies with a low degree of subjectivity such as metonymic
structures, in which the author substitutes a researcher with the result of his or her work
(‘description,’ étude (‘study’)), appear to be means of abiding by the politeness conventions
operative in Romance academic discourse. The following French example, in which the author
manifests himself or herself in the proposition through the use of the personal pronoun je (‘I’)
(making linguistically explicit that he or she expresses his or her own personal attitude), is the
exception in the corpus:
(13) Je trouve fâcheuses les limites que la déﬁnition de X impose [ . . . ]. [I ﬁnd the
limitations which this deﬁnition of X imposes annoying]
In the Italian corpus, the personal pronoun in the ﬁrst person singular io or plural noi is used
relatively seldom as the Italian language generally drops the personal subject pronouns; the
reference to the person is speciﬁed by the morphology of the verb itself. Subjectivity in Italian
research articles can therefore be expressed by using a verbal form in the ﬁrst person singular or
plural, even without the personal pronoun. However, personal pronouns can be used if the author
wants to highlight a semantic opposition concerning a previous utterance. As a consequence,
those pronouns also appear in the Italian corpus when the authors state a contrast or a dissent to
other authors’ opinions.
Compared to all the examples cited above, (13) represents a much higher degree of authorial
subjectivity, also reﬂected in the use of the adjective fâcheux (‘annoying’) with a negative
semantic value.
346 Nadine Rentel
3.1.3. Passive voice. The main function of passive voice is to present actions and results without
mentioning the agent responsible for them. It is particularly characteristic of the German texts under
investigation. Omitting the agent is particularly useful for face-threatening speech acts such as
stating the shortcomings of scientiﬁc studies by other authors. The author has to judge the quality of
the work of his or her peers as not sufﬁcient and not corresponding to the norms and expectations of
academic discourse. In doing so he or she has to criticize them by, pointing out, e.g., methodological
weaknesses. The passive voice allows the author to avoid directly mentioning the researcher
criticized and to avoid making himself or herself explicit as the source of the criticism.
(14) Die Diminuierung von Partikeln [ . . . ] wird in grammatischen Beschreibungen jedoch
weitgehend vernachlässigt. [... is neglected]
The modal verbs sollen and müssen contribute to the semantic differentiation of the statement
in the passive voice. They express an obligation the author is subject to, still without making the
author linguistically explicit:
(15) Aus texttheoretischer und semiotischer Sicht sollte das Phänomen der Intermedialität
zum Gegenstand gründlicher Untersuchungen gemacht werden. [... should be
considered]
(16) Trends müssen als hochgradig missverständliches Konzept angesehen werden und
bedürfen einer differenzierten Beschreibung [ . . . ]. [have to be considered]
3.2. Promoting own results
Next to justifying the own research by claiming gaps in and shortcomings of already existing
approaches, the promotion of the author’s own research results must be considered as a central
communicative need and rhetorical move in a research article. It reﬂects the central function of the
text type, which is contributing to the progress of a discipline by offering research results which
other members of the scientiﬁc community can access and examine. In the present corpus, authors
make use of two different strategies in promoting the results of their research. On the one hand,
they communicate their results in a very direct and explicit way, and on the other hand, they try to
be polite and reduce the responsibility by weakening their claims (‘hedging’). See Table 15.2.
3.2.1. Explicit strategies of evaluation: lexical units with positive denotation. In the Italian as well
as in the French and the German research articles, authors use lexical units with a positive
semantic denotation when promoting their results.
(17) L’étude du ﬁgement s’avère des plus fructueuses.
[ . . . turns out to be one of the most fruitful ones]
Subjectivity in academic discourse 347
French and Italian authors frequently use the verbal phrase permettere di/ permettre
deþverb (‘allows’þverb), which describes in detail the speciﬁc beneﬁts for the scientiﬁc
community:
(18) La combinazione di criteri linguistici ha permesso di descrivere l’organizzazione
gerarchico-relazionale [ . . . ]. [ . . . has allowed to describe]
(19) [ . . . ] permet de mieux couvrir la diversité des usages.
[ . . . allows to better cover]
Table 15.2. Syntactic and lexical means for promoting own research results
German Italian French
Hedging
phenomena
Positive
adjectives
| | |
Positive verbs | | |
Positive adverbs | | |
Positive nouns | |
Noun phrases il primo passo
(‘the ﬁrst
step’)
le premier pas (‘the ﬁrst
step’)
Adverbs vielleicht
(‘perhaps’)
forse
(‘perhaps’)
peut-être (‘perhaps’)
Modal verbs können
(‘can’)
potere (‘can’) pouvoir/ devoir être
(‘can’/’must’)
‘tentative verbs’ (er)scheinen
(‘seem’)
sembrare
(‘seem’)
sembler (‘seem’)
Verbal phrases
of probability/
likelihood
essere
probabile che
(‘be probable’)
avoir l’impression que
(‘have the impression’)
être probable/ possible
que (‘be probable’/ ‘be
possible’)
Passive | |
(þ model verb) |
348 Nadine Rentel
(20) L’avantage majeur de cette analyse réside dans le fait qu’elle permet de rendre
compte des contextes [ . . . ].
[ . . . it allows to take into account]
Similar to the lexical means used in ‘statement of a gap,’ authors combine positive evaluation
with impersonal structures in order to reduce the degree of subjectivity and to convey the
impression that their evaluation is based on neutral and objective criteria. Passive voice, which
has the same function of objectiﬁcation of the claim, is only used infrequently in the Romance
corpus.
(21) Les relations entre la description lexicographique des substantifs et leur description
morphologique sont ainsi théoriquement améliorées. [ . . . are improved on the
theoretical level]
Equally infrequent is the use of ﬁrst person pronouns in the context of promoting one’s results.
(22) Abbiamo cosı̀ messo in luce la relazione interattiva [ . . . ].
[we have highlighted]
Without taking into account the context (e.g., information about the author(s) and its/their
afﬁliation), it does not become evident whether the verbal forms refer to one single author or to a
group because the plural form might have been used for an individual researcher, for reasons of
politeness or simply because he respects the rhetoric traditions of academic discourse.
3.2.2. Implicit strategies of evaluation: hedging phenomena. In all three languages, the authors
make use of hedging phenomena in the presentation and promotion of their research results.
Hedging reﬂects the presence of an author who expresses his or her uncertainty or his or her
doubts, in this way complying with the language and culture-speciﬁc conventions of politeness in
the respective academic discourse traditions. The promotion of research results bears a particular
risk of authorial face loss, so the authors tend to present themselves as extremely careful when
they express conclusions drawn from their data:
Any knowledge claim can be potentially face-threatening and is therefore often phrased in a
tentative way for reasons of politeness and caution. Even more face-threatening should then be a
writer’s overt expression of the merits of his own contribution. (Lindeberg, 1997, p. 695)
The hedging devices listed in Table 15.2 serve the authors to minimize the risk of a loss of
scientiﬁc credibility should their results be falsiﬁed by other members of the scientiﬁc community.
The use of the hedging devices may be the result of genuine uncertainty about the validity of
the conclusion, of an apprehension of coming criticism for putting forth this conclusion, of an
apprehension of future falsiﬁcation of the conclusion, or of simply following the conventionalized
Subjectivity in academic discourse 349
patterns of polite language use for this particular rhetorical move in French, Italian, and German
written academic discourse.
The presentation of the own research results is realized in language-speciﬁc ways in the
corpus. While verbal phrases or lexical strategies (such as the use of the modal verb
potere/pouvoir (‘can’)) are frequent in the Italian and French texts, German authors prefer passive
structures. It seems as if the authors of the Italian and the French texts try to weaken their claims
through strategies of subjectiﬁcation, while their German counterparts are careful not to evoke the
impression of subjectivity.
Using the modal verb potere/pouvoir (‘can’), the author, whether motivated by real uncertainty
or by politeness considerations, makes explicit that he or she considers his or her conclusion just
as an option among others. He or she is aware that there exist alternative ways of interpreting and
drawing conclusions from the data. The degree of certainty is furthermore downgraded when
authors put the modal verb in the conditional or add adverbs such as forse and peut-être
(‘perhaps’):
(23) Può rafﬁnare i metodi diagnostici e stabilire il grado di deﬁcit linguistico [ . . . ]. [This
can improve the methods . . . ]
(24) Può essere d’aiuto nella creazione di strategie riabilitative [ . . . ]. [This can be helpful
for the creation . . . ]
(25) Essa potrebbe servire da punto di riferimento [ . . . ].
[This could serve as a point of reference]
(26) Il pourrait s’agir d’une évolution ancienne, mais il est difﬁcile de trancher. [It could
be . . . ]
(27) Storicamente potrebbe forse trattarsi di fatti di conservazione. [It could perhaps
be . . . ]
Example (28) illustrates that the use of the Italian verb osare (‘dare’) strengthens and explicates
the personal bias of the author’s claim in the context of the discussion of a conclusion that he
draws from his data.
(28) [ . . . ] una mia prima conclusione generale vuole sottolineare l’incontro – che oso
deﬁnire fruttuoso [ . . . ]
[ . . . that I dare deﬁne as fruitful]
In French example (29), the author uses passive voice but personalizes the claim with the personal
pronoun in the ﬁrst person plural nous (‘we’).
(29) [ . . . ] la description de la ﬂexion [ . . . ] sont simpliﬁées de notre analyse.
[ . . . are simpliﬁed by our analysis]
350 Nadine Rentel
The passive voice in the German research articles is sometimes combined with the modal verb
können (‘can’) when authors discuss the beneﬁts of their research results:
(30) [ . . . ] so dass damit ein Beispiel für ein rein nähesprachliches historisches
grammatisches Phänomen vorgelegt werden kann. [ . . . can be presented]
(31) Durch eine statistische Untersuchung am althochdeutschen und mittelhochdeutschen
Korpus konnte die sprachgeschichtliche Tendenz festgestellt werden [ . . . ].
[ . . . could be stated]
The impersonal syntactic structure essere probabile che/ être probable que (‘be probable’) fulﬁls
the same communicative function as the third person personal pronounþpotere/pouvoir, namely
reducing the degree of probability of the claim by presenting it as an option:
(32) È probabile che la forma [ . . . ] sia in origine il prodotto dell’assimilazione [ . . . ]. [It
is likely that . . . ]
(33) Il est probable que le lexique du terroir s’est mieux conservé [ . . . ]. [It is likely
that . . . ]
In the discussion of the linguistic realization of ‘stating a gap’ above, we have already come
across the communicative function of downtoning the author’s certainty by means of sembrare/
sembler/ scheinen (‘seem’). Authors also use it when promoting their research results:
(34) [ . . . ] si rilevano delle polarizzazioni che sembrano tipologicamente determinate
[ . . . ]. [seem to be typologically determined]
(35) Ces alternances ne semblent pas avoir d’équivalents en cotentinais. [do not seem to
have équivalents in]
By the metaphorical noun phrase il primo passo/le premier pas (‘the ﬁrst step’),2
the authors
express that their ﬁndings do not present the one and only solution to a research problem but that
they consider it as one possible contribution and one approach among others. They invite the
members of the scientiﬁc community to discuss their ﬁndings, in order to complete their own
reﬂections:
(36) Un’analisi come la nostra potrebbe costituire il primo passo verso una traduzione
adeguata [ . . . ]. [ . . . could constitute a ﬁrst step]
(37) Nos propositions constituent le premier pas vers une analyse exhaustive de ces deux
lexèmes. [Our suggestions constitute the ﬁrst step]
2
No occurrences of the German equivalent der erste Schritt in the corpus.
Subjectivity in academic discourse 351
In the Italian as well as in the French examples above, the authors combine several hedging
strategies: While the Italian author adds the modal verb potere (‘can’) in the conditional, the
French author explicates the subjectivity of his or her claim by using the possessive pronoun nos
(‘our’) in the ﬁrst person plural in order to stress the fact that the results are based on the work and
effort of a small group of researchers (or even of an individual).
In the French corpus, the author can furthermore become linguistically present through the
verb croire (‘believe’) in the ﬁrst person plural when presenting research results:
(38) [ . . . ] va apporter, croyons-nous, des preuves convaincantes à l’appui de la thèse.
[we believe]
Such explicit linguistic traces and means of personalizing the claim are very rare in the German
texts whose authors prefer strategies of objectiﬁcation.
4. CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK
To conclude, we can state that, based on the analyzed corpus, the comparison of research articles
in Linguistics reveals more similarities than differences between French, Italian, and German,
concerning the linguistic manifestation of the author’s attitude or subjectivity.3
This holds in
particular for the two Romance languages; the strategies are nearly identical, except the use of
questions and exclamations in the French texts, which seems to be a peculiarity of French rhetoric.
It is especially the use of questions in the French corpus that increases the degree of interactivity
between the author and the reader of the article. By using this linguistic strategy, the author imitates
the style of spoken rhetoric, rendering his text more vivid and capable to convince the imagined
audience. The similarities on the cross-cultural and cross-linguistic level have been illustrated in
this study particularly on the qualitative level. The predominance of similarities between Italian and
French is not surprising as they belong to the same language family. Furthermore, the rhetorical
conventions of these two languages are based historically on similar, if not to say identical
discourse traditions. These similarities can be observed, to a certain degree, also for the comparison
of the two Romance languages with German: In all three languages, authors use lexical units with a
positive or negative semantic value when evaluating the facts presented in the text. Likewise,
hedging phenomena occur in all three languages, reﬂecting the author’s need to weaken his or her
3
As mentioned above, the focus of our study is a qualitative one, aiming at discussing the use and the
function of typical linguistic strategies in detail. We therefore do not claim that our results are
representative, but we can highlight some tendencies concerning cross-cultural differences in linguistic
research articles. In order to increase the signiﬁcance of the results, more quantitatively oriented studies
have to been carried out.
352 Nadine Rentel
claim and to reduce the responsibility for the propositional content. The differences between the
discourse conventions concern the language-speciﬁc use of the linguistic means that fulﬁl the
function of weakening the claim, especially when presenting and promoting the author’s own
research results. While set verbal phrases expressing reduced certainty are frequent in the French
and the Italian texts, German authors often make use of the passive voice. However, from the
frequent use of passive structures one cannot draw the conclusion that German academic discourse
is more neutral or objective than the French or the Italian ones, as these languages offer linguistic
structures allowing the authors to realize the same communicative function of avoiding the agent of
actions (e.g., metonymic structures replacing the author by his or her text). Again, it should be
highlighted that a linguistic comparison should not start from the linguistic form, but should ask for
the language-speciﬁc choice of linguistic means that help to realize pragmatic needs. We have to
add that the combination of linguistic strategies, e.g., the use of a hedging phenomenon, followed
by an explicit positioning of the author in the same utterance (e.g., by means of a pronoun), makes
it sometimes difﬁcult to establish categorizations.
In the context of the increasing internationalization of academic discourse, where a constantly
growing number of students and researchers get in contact with different academic cultures, a
good knowledge of culture-speciﬁc norms becomes more and more important. If the people
involved in this intercultural exchange want to participate successfully in the acquisition of
knowledge as well as in the exchange of ideas, they have to understand and respect the underlying
textual norms and conventions operative in the language of the community in which the texts are
produced. One main problem is the lack of language-contrastive guidelines and textbooks for
academic writing, comparing systematically language pairs of a selected academic discipline. In
order to help scholars to communicate successfully in another language and culture, such
pedagogical material could be helpful, e.g., by providing information both on the culture-speciﬁc
structure as well as on the language use in academic texts or by pointing out cross-cultural
fallacies. One should therefore carry out further comparative analyses of academic discourse, in its
written as well as in its oral form; it seems especially necessary to closing the gap that exists with
respect to research on Romance languages. Assuming that differences between academic
disciplines in one language can be more pronounced than intercultural differences in the same
discipline across languages, those studies should adopt a double-contrastive perspective by
considering both different academic text types (e.g., abstracts, research articles, critical reviews,
presentations at conferences) and academic disciplines.
REFERENCES
Breivega, K., Dahl, T., & Fløttum, K. (2002). Traces of self and others in research articles: A comparative
study of English, French and Norwegian research articles in medicine, economics and linguistics.
International Journal of Applied Linguistics, 12(2), 218–239.
Subjectivity in academic discourse 353
Crismore, A., & Farnsworth, R. (1990). Metadiscourse in popular and professional scientiﬁc discourse. In
W. Nash (Ed.), The writing scholar (pp. 118–136). London: Sage.
Ellsworth, P. C. (1991). Some implications of cognitive appraisal theories of emotion. In K. Strongman (Ed.),
International review of studies on emotion (pp. 143–161). New York, NY: Wiley.
Hyland, K. (1996a). Writing without conviction? Hedging in scientiﬁc research articles. Applied Linguistics,
17(4), 433–454.
Hyland, K. (1996b). Talking to the academy: Forms of hedging in science research articles. Written
Communication, 13(2), 251–281.
Hyland, K. (1998). Hedging in scientiﬁc research articles. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Hyland, K. (1999). Disciplinary discourses. Writer stance in research articles. In C. N. Candlin & K. Hyland
(Eds.), Writing: Texts, processes and practices (pp. 99–121). London: Longman.
Hyland, K. (2001). Humble servants of the discipline? Self mention in research articles. English for Speciﬁc
Purposes, 20(3), 207–226.
Hyland, K. (2002). Authority and invisibility: Authorial identity in academic writing. Journal of Pragmatics,
34(8), 1091–1112.
Lindeberg, A.-C. (1997). Promotional rhetorical steps and linguistic signalling in research articles in three
disciplines. In L. Lundquist, H. Picht & J. Qvistgaard (Eds.), LSP, identity, and interface. Research,
knowledge and society. Proceedings of the 11th European symposium on language for special
purposes (Vol. II, pp. 689–698). København: Copenhagen Business School.
Mauranen, A. (1992). Reference in academic rhetoric. A contrastive study of Finnish and English writing. In
A.-C. Lindeberg, N. E. Enkvist & K. Wikberg (Eds.), Nordic research on text and discourse. Nordtext
symposium 1990 (pp. 237–250). Abo: Abo Akademis Förlag.
Mauranen, A. (1993). Cultural differences in academic rhetoric: A text-linguistic study. Frankfurt am Main:
Peter Lang.
Moreno, A. (1997). Genre constraints across languages: Causal metatext in Spanish and English research
articles. English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 16(3), 161–179.
Spillner, B. (1997). Methoden des interkulturellen Sprachvergleichs. Kontrastive Linguistik, Paralleltextana-
lyse, Übersetzungsvergleich. In H.-J. Lüsebrink & R. Reinhardt (Eds.), Kulturtransfer im
Epochenumbruch. Frankreich-Deutschland 1770 bis 1815 (pp. 103–130). Leipzig: Leipziger
Universitätsverlag.
Thompson, G., & Hunston, S. (2000). Evaluation. An introduction. In S. Hunston & G. Thompson (Eds.),
Evaluation in text: Authorial stance and the construction of discourse (pp. 1–27). Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Vassileva, I. (2000). Who is the author? A contrastive analysis of authorial presence in English, German,
French, Russian and Bulgarian academic discourse. Sankt Augustin: Asgard.
354 Nadine Rentel
Subjectivity in Language and in Discourse
Edited by Nicole Baumgarten, Inke Du Bois and Juliane House
r 2012 by Emerald Group Publishing Limited. All rights reserved.
16
AUTHORIAL PRESENCE AND STANCE IN GERMAN
AND FRENCH LETTERS TO SHAREHOLDERS
Anne Küppers
1. INTRODUCTION
In the past decades, several studies have analyzed the distribution of speaker stance elements in
texts from different genres and languages. Most of this research is of qualitative nature, includes
English as (one of) the language(s) under investigation, and concerns academic language (e.g.
Baumgarten, 2008; Baumgarten & Özc
-etin, 2008; Bernhardt, 1985; Hyland, 2001, 2002; Samson,
2004). The present chapter describes the characteristics of writer representation in German and
French external business communication through the use of nominative personal pronouns in
subject position and their co-occurrence patterns with certain verbs, in order to outline authorial
presence and stance in letters to shareholders. Stance is understood here as an umbrella term for
expressions of opinion, evaluation, judgment, attitude, feeling, and emotion in texts, and the
presence of speaker-deictic elements is an explicit indicator of authorial presence in the text,
personalizing the propositional content.
Existing analyses of external business communication mostly focus on material and economic
characteristics in order to describe ﬁnancial accounting strategies in different cultures and to
deﬁne international standards. Research on linguistic aspects of business communication only
developed during the last decade, simultaneously with studies on speaker stance elements in
communication (Bextermöller, 2002; Ditlevsen, 2002; Gazdar & Kirchhoff, 2001). Focusing on
the language used in French speaking business communication, the studies of Suomela-Salmi and
Gambier (1994), Bolten, Kalverkämper, and Baumann (1996), Ammon and Knoblauch (2001),
and Schlierer (2004) give ﬁrst insights in the ﬁeld. As to our knowledge, there are no studies
combining the analysis of business communication and the expression of authorial stance in
German and French when the study was carried out (but see Kranich, 2011).
The present analysis is of interest in at least two respects. First, as there are only few systematic,
contrastive studies for the language pair German-French, we make a ﬁrst attempt at closing this gap
with respect to the description of business communication. Second, we assume our work to be
useful for translators. In order to adapt translations to the respective target culture, comparative
studies outlining communicative preferences along the lines of the studies by e.g. Byrnes (1986),
Clyne (1987, 1993), Kotthoff (1989), Doherty (1996, 2003), and House (1996, 1999, 2003) for
German and English are needed for a greater variety of language pairs. As the number of companies
that translate their annual reports into diverse languages increases – triggered by globalization
processes – contrastive studies like the present one seem useful, if not essential.
The chapter is structured as follows. Section 2 gives a brief overview of previous studies on
business communication and on the use of speaker/writer-deictic elements. Section 3 presents the
corpus and introduces the method of analysis. The results are presented in Section 4 and discussed
in Section 5. We conclude the chapter in Section 6.
2. AUTHOR’S ROLE IN BUSINESS COMMUNICATION
Previous studies on business communication in French and German have suggested that the
typical German style is characterized by an unemotional, theoretical, highly structured, and factual
way of presenting information (Bextermöller, 2002; Gazdar & Kirchhoff, 2001). When it comes to
addressing the reader, the German author’s role is to guide the readers by expressing her/his
personal attitude and by evaluating the information presented. The style is simple, sometimes even
colloquial, and neither lexically nor syntactically marked as unconventional or nonstandard
(Bextermöller, 2002; Gohr, 2002). First person personal pronouns (‘I’ and ‘we’) are used in German
texts in order to allow for reader identiﬁcation with the chief executive ofﬁcer (CEO) and the
company (Gohr, 2002). In contrast, French corporate communication is said to focus on ‘elegance.’
The style is also theory-oriented and rational, but the aesthetic component of language use is more
important (Bolten et al., 1996). French texts are said to be more dialectic and dynamic but at the
same time impersonal (Suomela-Salmi & Gambier, 1994). In general, the presence of the author in
the text facilitates the establishment of a writer-reader relation and the reader’s text comprehension
(Ammon & Knoblauch, 2001) and particularly highlights the role of the CEO in French companies.
With respect to the use of speaker/writer1
-deictic elements, some studies suggest that their
use is not random, but based on conscious choices made by the individual author (e.g. Samson,
1
Since the present analysis is concerned with authorial stance in written texts, the expression ‘‘writer-
deictic’’ will be used.
356 Anne Küppers
2004). These choices are situation- and culture-dependent and vary according to the
communicative intent and genre (e.g. Baumgarten, 2008; Baumgarten and Özc
-etin, 2008;
Hyland, 2001, 2002, Vassileva, 1998). The number of occurrences of the different personal
pronouns is subject to text type or genre, discipline, context, and culture. Any of these may
inﬂuence the position and representation of the author in the text, and the use of writer-deictic
elements depends on choices made by the author herself/himself (Baumgarten, 2008;
Baumgarten & Özc
-etin 2008; Hyland, 2001, 2002; Vassileva, 1998). Through using personal
pronouns, the writer manifests and positions herself/himself in the text. According to the
existing research results, different writer-deictic pronouns are used when the author2
intends to
express her/his attitudes toward and opinions about what is said, when she/he wants to address
the reader or arouse her/his interest, and when the author intends to include the reader in her/his
process of argumentation. The choice for a personal pronoun in a particular context reﬂects the
degree of authorial responsibility for and involvement in what is reported and thus the degree of
vulnerability of the author.
3. DATA AND METHOD
3.1. Data
In business communication, annual reports play an important role for the external
representation of a company’s identity and culture. Being an optional component of the annual
report and a relatively young text type, letters to shareholders have become more and more
elaborate (Gohr, 2002, p. 309). The letter to shareholders, signed by the company’s CEO, is the
part of the text which generally serves as the introduction to the annual report. The letter presents
the company’s work in order to promote it to shareholders and other readers interested in the
company. It gives an overview over the most important facts and events of the past ﬁscal year and
introduces future projects and plans. The letter to shareholders thus has a double function: ﬁrst to
promote the company and its business by conveying a positive company image (Fløttum, 1998;
Garzone, 2004), and second to establish contact with the readership. The letter to shareholders is
generally held to be the most read part of the annual report. The reason for this popularity with the
readers is assumedly the fact that it is almost always the ﬁrst – and often only – continuous text in
the annual report that features a personal tone (Schlierer, 2004, p. 235). It is thus interesting to see
how these two functions are fulﬁlled in letters to shareholders from different cultures and in
different languages.
2
In this chapter, the terms author, writer, and speaker are used interchangeably.
Authorial presence in German and French letters to shareholders 357
One special feature of the personal tone of the letter to shareholders is the use of personal
pronouns, serving on the one hand to identify the communication participants, and on the other
hand to create a sense of corporate identity (Hassinen & Wenner, 1994, p. 39). The author,
nominally the CEO, can express her/his involvement in corporate responsibility, the future
business planning, and an orientation toward her/his readers. Our study is based on a comparable
corpus of letters to shareholders published in 2005 in the annual reports of 66 German and French
companies being represented in major German and French stock indices (German DAX
(Deutscher Aktienindex), French CAC 40 (Cotation Assistée en Continue)).3
The German and
French corpora consist of 35,648 and 40,194 words, respectively.
3.2. Method
The present research is essentially based on methods and principles from Systemic-
Functional Grammar (e.g. Halliday, 1994). In this framework, systemic refers to the ‘‘network of
systems, or interrelated sets of options for making meaning’’ (Halliday, 1994, p. 15) in language
use. Functional, here, refers to the idea that language has evolved by means of human
experience and interpersonal relations. The language system is composed of the following main
sets: ﬁeld refers to what happens in the communication situation, to the social action taking
place; tenor relates to who is talking and in which way to the participants of the action, and to
the relationship between these participants; and mode corresponds to how language is used in
the communication situation, in the sense of what part or role language plays. The three main
dimensions of language production – the register variables ﬁeld, tenor, and mode – organize
meaning by means of the three respective metafunctions ideational, interpersonal, and textual,
the so-called ‘‘types of meaning at risk’’ (see Eggins & Martin, 1997, p. 242, for an explanatory
table illustrating the interplay in the language system). The ideational metafunction realizes
‘‘who is doing what to whom, when, where, why, how’’ (Eggins & Martin, 1997, p. 238) (‘the
clause as representation’). The interpersonal metafunction realizes the interaction between
participants of the communication as well as their relationship to each other and to what is said
(‘the clause as exchange’). The textual metafunction realizes textual coherence and structure
(‘the clause as message’).
Our analysis focuses on the interpersonal and ideational metafunctions of letters to
shareholders, namely the author’s presence in the text and the reporting on company’s activities
in the past trade year and the purposes and projects striving for in the future. To a certain
degree, the study also addresses the involvement of the reader, as we will see in the following.
3
The German corpus comprises 30 letters to shareholders; the French corpus comprises 36 texts. Three
of the 40 CAC 40 companies did not publish a letter to shareholders in their 2005 annual reports, and
one company only published an English version.
358 Anne Küppers
In order to reveal language-speciﬁc characteristics of author representation in the texts, we ﬁrst
analyzed the personal pronouns referring to the author of the text, i.e. nominative personal
pronouns of the ﬁrst and third person singular (German ich, French je (‘I’), German man,
French on (‘one’)) as well as of the ﬁrst person plural (German wir, French nous (‘we’)).
Regarding the third person singular pronoun (‘one’), we distinguish between generic and
speciﬁc reference. In the case of generic reference, the pronoun refers to people in general. In
the case of speciﬁc reference, the pronoun can be used for anaphoric reference, where it
replaces a co-referential personal pronoun in subject position, i.e. also those referring to the
author. Especially in colloquial spoken French, nous (‘we’) is almost always replaced by on
(‘one’) with speciﬁc reference (Fonseca-Greber & Waugh, 2001). Schlierer (2004) claims that
French annual reports tend to reproduce characteristics of spoken language. Accordingly, we
consider the use of on (‘one’) with speciﬁc reference as reﬂecting spoken language in the
French letters to shareholders and classify ‘one’ and ‘we’ in the same category in a following
step. Regarding the ﬁrst person plural pronouns wir and nous (‘we’), one can distinguish
between different uses as well. Reference to the author is generally called the exclusive use.
The inclusive use of wir/nous refers to the author and the reader collectively. In both German
and French, this difference is marked neither lexically nor morphologically and is only
perceptible in the communication context, on the discourse-pragmatic level (Section 5) (cf. Du
Bois, this volume).
In addition to the analysis of the personal pronouns, we classiﬁed the verbs co-occurring with
the personal pronouns according to the categorization of process types proposed by Halliday and
Matthiessen (2004). Following this categorization, we distinguished material, verbal, relational,
behavioral, existential, and mental processes, illustrated by the examples in Table 16.2.
The mental processes were supposed to provide information about the author’s stance and have
thus been further divided into cognitive (e.g. ‘know’; German wissen, French savoir), perceptive
(e.g. ‘discern’; German erkennen, French reconnaı̂tre), emotive (e.g. ‘prefer’; German
bevorzugen, French préférer), and desiderative processes (e.g. ‘wish’; German wünschen, French
espérer).
As has been shown in other studies on personal pronouns, the different process types
co-occurring with them fulﬁll different discourse functions in our corpus (e.g. Baumgarten &
Özc
-etin, 2008, p. 11). With regard to the ideational metafunction, process types report on
what was/will be done, state results or goals (to be) achieved, introduce explanations and
purposes, give reasons, etc. In terms of the interpersonal metafunction, process types justify
plans and undertakings, hedge propositions, assume shared knowledge, express wishes and
expectations, etc.
The analytic procedure involved the following steps: On the basis of a semi-automatic
processing of the texts, we ﬁrst isolated all occurrences of nominative personal pronouns in
subject position referring to the author of the text. We obtained three categories of pronouns,
Authorial presence in German and French letters to shareholders 359
namely ﬁrst person singular (‘I’), third person singular (‘one’), and ﬁrst person plural (‘we’). We
then subdivided the occurrences of ‘one’ into generic and speciﬁc reference – with only the
pronouns with speciﬁc reference included in the further analyses.4
We also classiﬁed the use of
‘we’ into different subcategories depending on their context-dependent reference frame.5
In other
words, the subdivision was based on the context of occurrence of each pronoun and was
conducted manually.
Our analysis accounts for three different references of the ‘we’-pronoun:
(i) the author;
(ii) the author and the employees;
(iii) the author, the employees, and the reader.
For clarity and to not create confusion with the existing deﬁnitions of inclusive and exclusive
reference, I will refer to the three different types of ‘we’ by use (i), use (ii), and use (iii). The
reference frame is not necessarily determinable from the sentence containing the personal pronoun
itself but may be provided by the surrounding sentences. See example (1):
(1) Je tiens aussi à vous remercier, Madame, Monsieur, cher Actionnaire, de la conﬁance
que vous m’avez accordée au cours de toutes ces années. Malgré les difﬁcultés que
nous avons dû surmonter, nous avons su transformer ensemble notre Groupe [ . . . ].
I am also eager to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, dear stakeholders, for the trust you
have afforded me during all these years. Despite the obstacles we had to overcome, we
have succeeded in transforming our group together.
Because on and man (‘one’) can act as anaphoric pronouns for occurrences of nous and wir
(‘we’), they were included in the categorization of inclusive and exclusive use. Use (i) of ‘we’ thus
rivals occurrences of ‘I’ in that both refer solely to the author of the text (Table 16.1). We then
identiﬁed all verbs co-occurring with the personal pronouns and categorized them according to the
classiﬁcation of process types proposed by Halliday and Matthiessen (2004; see Table 16.2). Our
categorization is based on the lexical verb, i.e. the ﬁnite main verb in simple verb phrases and the
nonﬁnite lexical verb in complex predicates.6
The classiﬁcation of process types involved two
departures from the model described by Halliday and Matthiessen (2004): ﬁrst, certain formally
relational processes correspond to emotive or cognitive process types on the functional level
4
The generic use of the third person singular pronouns does not contribute to the author’s presence in
the text.
5
This contextual reference frame is what Ehlich (1982, 1983) calls ‘‘Zeigfeld.’’
6
Auxiliaries, modals, and aspectual verbs were not included in the analysis because of their reduced
semantics compared to lexical verbs (Kunkel-Razum & Münzberg, 2006, p. 420; Riegel, Pellat, & Rioul
1999, pp. 252–253).
360 Anne Küppers
Table 16.1. Co-occurrences of inclusive and exclusive references and process typesa
excl. (r)/excl. (e) excl. (r)/incl. (e) incl. (r)/incl. (e) Total
GE FR GE FR GE FR GE FR
N % N % N % N % N % N % N % N %
Process type
Material 309 65.9 108 61.4 463 69.0 112 63.6 4 40.0 4 28.6 776 67.5 224 61.2
Verbal 38 8.1 22 12.5 16 2.4 5 2.8 1 7.1 54 4.7 28 7.7
Relational 13 2.8 9 5.1 91 13.6 38 21.6 2 20.0 3 21.4 106 9.2 50 13.7
Behavioral 3 0.4 3 0.3
Existential 1 0.1 1 7.1 1 0.1 1 0.3
Mental 109 23.2 37 21.0 97 14.5 21 11.9 4 40.0 5 35.7 210 18.3 63 17.2
Cognitive 89 81.7 34 91.9 67 69.1 13 61.9 3 75.0 5 100.0 159 75.7 52 82.5
Perceptive 14 12.8 1 2.7 14 14.4 28 13.3 1 1.6
Emotive 4 3.7 1 2.7 13 13.4 8 38.1 1 25.0 18 8.6 9 14.3
Desiderative 2 1.8 1 2.7 3 3.1 5 2.4 1 1.6
Total 469 40.8 176 48.1 671 58.3 176 48.1 10 0.9 14 3.8 1150 100.0 366 100.0
a
The different subcategories of pronoun reference are labeled as follows: use (i): excl. (r)/excl. (e), use (ii): excl. (r)/incl. (e), use (iii): incl. (r)/incl. (e), where (r)
means ‘reader’ and (e) means ‘employee.’
(Steiner & Teich, 2004, p. 154). Depending on their function, we classiﬁed them either as
cognitive or emotive processes. In our German data, relational processes are constructed either by
a so-called static passive or by a form of the copula haben (‘have’) co-occurring with a cognitive
or emotive noun.
(2) Ich bin zuversichtlich, dass wir gut voran kommen.
I am conﬁdent that we are making good progress.7
(3) Wir sind stolz, dies alles erreicht zu haben!
We are proud to have achieved all this.
(4) Sehr geehrte Damen und Herren, ich habe sehr groXes Vertrauen in unser
Unternehmen.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have great conﬁdence in our company.
Table 16.2. Process types
Process
type
German French
Material verschenken (‘give’) , arbeiten
(‘work’), anpacken (‘deal with’)
travailler (‘work’), lancer (‘launch’),
developer (‘develop’)
Verbal sagen (‘say’), danken (‘thank’),
schreiben (‘write’)
saluer (‘greet’), remercier (‘thank’),
dire (‘say’)
Relational führend sein (‘be leading’),
Handlungsbedarf haben (‘have the
need for action’)
avoir en main (‘have at hand’), être
fort (‘be strong’), être leader (‘be a
leader’)
Behavioral widerstehen (‘resist’), ruhen (‘rest’),
reden (‘talk’)
regarder (‘look’), bavarder (‘chat’),
éternuer (‘chat’)a
Existential dort sein (‘be there’) être là (‘be there’)
Mental erkennen (‘recognize’), wissen
(‘know’), sich freuen (‘rejoice’),
wünschen (‘wish’)
savoir (‘know’), decider (‘decide’),
espérer (‘hope’), préférer (‘prefer’)
a
There are no behavioral processes in our French data. The given examples are taken from Caffarel (2004,
p. 100).
7
All translations of examples into English are mine.
362 Anne Küppers
In our French texts, we found similar constructions composed of the copula être (‘be’) and a
participle of a cognitive or emotive verb, or of the copula avoir (‘have’) co-occurring with a
cognitive or emotive noun.
(5) Tout en restant prudent, je suis optimiste: [ . . . ].
I remain cautiously optimistic.
(6) Nous sommes convaincus que la convivialité et l’esprit entrepreneur, [ . . . ], sont
essentiels [ . . . ].
We are convinced that conviviality and entrepreneurial spirit are essential.
(7) J’ai entière conﬁance dans la capacité [ . . . ] à poursuivre une croissance soutenue et
rentable.
I have full conﬁdence in our capacity to pursue a sustainable and proﬁtable growth.
Second, sentences containing two verb phrases, i.e. a main clause and an incoherent inﬁnitive
phrase (Kunkel-Razum & Münzberg, 2006, p. 864; Grevisse, 2001, pp. 446, 1282), were analyzed
in line with Martin, Matthiessen, and Painter (1997, p. 117), namely by regarding each verb as a
single process and assigning each individually to a process type:
(8) Inzwischen haben wir uns aus strategischen Gründen entschieden [mental
process], einen GroXteil dieser Produktion nach Asien zu verlegen [material
process], [ . . . ].
In the meantime, for strategic reasons, we have decided to move a major portion of
production to Asia . . .
(9) Ich freue mich [emotive process] Ihnen berichten zu können [verbal process], [ . . . ].
I am pleased to report . . .
(10) En 2006 nous avons prévu [mental process] d’inclure [material process] d’autres
pays [ . . . ].
In 2006 we have anticipated including other countries . . .
(11) La croissance bien sûr, mais je préfère [emotive process] dire [verbal process]
incontestablement le new business.
Growth, of course, but I prefer unquestionably to speak of new business.
In our analysis, we also accounted for those process types co-occurring with ellipses of personal
pronouns whenever the referring personal pronoun operated beyond the sentence boundary. We
included the elliptic occurrences because the absence of the personal pronouns is based on
Authorial presence in German and French letters to shareholders 363
grammatical and not only stylistic reasons; they are thus classiﬁed with the corresponding
personal pronouns and not treated separately.
(12) Wir werden weiterhin in ihre Qualität investieren und auf ihre hohe Motivation, ihr
Engagement, ihre Flexibilität und ihre Talente vertrauen.
We will continue to invest in great workmanship, and trust that they are highly
motivated, committed, ﬂexible and talented.
(13) Nous avons déjà identiﬁé et lancé des initiatives qui devront nous permettre de
réaliser notre ambition.
We have already identiﬁed and launched initiatives that should enable us to reach
our goals.
4. RESULTS
4.1. Frequency of pronouns
Overall, the German corpus (35,648 words) provides 1,277 writer-deictic pronouns in subject
position and the French corpus (40,194 words) features 515 writer-pronouns. Alone from the
number of speaker pronouns in the two data sets with respect to corpus size, the German texts
seem to be more people-oriented.
Ich (‘I’) accounts for almost 10% of the total number of writer-deictic pronouns in the German
corpus. In the French corpus, the number of je (‘I’) is three times higher (28.9%). In the German
data, the number of the ﬁrst person plural pronoun wir (‘we’) ranks higher (89.9%) than the use of
nous (‘we’) in the French texts (65.2%). The third person singular pronoun (‘one’; German man,
French on) with speciﬁc reference is the least common writer-deictic element in both languages.
With only two occurrences of man in our German data, the frequency does not exceed 0.2%. On
represents 5.8% of the writer-deictic elements in the French data.8
The distribution differences
(see Table 16.3) can be explained by the strictly hierarchical organizational structure of French
companies, where the ‘‘président-directeur général’’, who appears as the author of the letter to
shareholders, holds the ofﬁces of administrative council and of CEO at the same time, and thus
holds unparalleled power and has far-ranging responsibilities. Another explanation for why the
CEO is frequently represented as an individual in the letters could be that employees in France
prefer relating to the CEO as an individual and not simply to the person in the hierarchically more
powerful position (Ammon & Knoblauch, 2001).
8
Nineteen of the 30 occurrences of on appear in one letter to shareholders. The comparatively high
number of occurrences of the pronoun is thus partly caused by this text.
364 Anne Küppers
Table
16.3.
Co-occurrences
of
personal
pronouns
and
process
types
1.
Sg.
1.
PI.
3.
Sg.
Total
GE
FR
GE
FR
GE
FR
GE
FR
N
%
N
%
N
%
N
%
N
%
N
%
N
%
N
%
Process
type
Material
9
7.1
36
24.2
776
67.6
207
61.6
17
56.7
785
61.5
260
50.5
Verbal
61
48.0
44
29.5
54
4.7
24
7.1
4
13.3
115
9.0
72
14.0
Relational
4
2.7
106
9.2
48
14.3
2
6.7
106
8.3
54
10.5
Behavioral
1
0.8
3
0.3
4
0.3
Existential
3
2.0
1
0.1
1
0.3
1
0.1
4
0.8
Mental
56
44.1
62
41.6
208
18.1
56
16.7
2
100.0
7
23.3
266
20.8
125
24.3
Cognitive
35
62.5
37
59.7
157
75.5
46
82.1
2
100.0
6
85.7
194
72.9
89
71.2
Perceptive
4
7.1
4
6.5
28
13.5
1
1.8
32
12.0
5
4.0
Emotive
14
25.0
17
27.4
18
8.7
9
16.1
32
12.0
26
20.8
Desiderative
3
5.4
4
6.5
5
2.4
1
14.3
8
3.0
5
4.0
Total
127
9.9
149
28.9
1148
89.9
336
65.2
2
0.2
30
5.8
1277
100.0
515
100.0
Authorial presence in German and French letters to shareholders 365
4.2. Process types
The distribution of the process types in the French and German data is rather similar. Material
processes are the most frequent type, accounting for over 60% of the co-occurrences with speaker
deictic personal pronouns.9
As mentioned in Section 3.1, the letter to shareholders is mainly used
for advertising purposes, reporting on completed tasks, work in progress, and future operations.
This reporting requires the use of material processes, as illustrated in examples (14) and (15):
(14) Wir haben die richtigen Mitarbeiter ausgewählt, Proﬁtabilität zu unserem wichtigsten
ErfolgsmaXstab gemacht, die Produktpalette und die Kommunikation verbessert, um
die Marke [...] besser zu positionieren.
We have chosen the right employees, we declared proﬁtability as our most important
benchmark, we amended product line-up and communication in order to gain a better
position for the brand.
(15) Nous avons à cet effet engagé en ﬁn d’année des plans de développement à trois ans
que nous mènerons avec opiniâtreté.
At the end of this year we adopted developmental plans for the next three years,
which we will accomplish with patience for this purpose.
Mental processes are the second most commonly used process type. They play an important role
in that they express the author’s thoughts, opinions, and attitudes.10
A more detailed examination
of these processes was assumed to provide further insight into the CEO’s self-representation in
external business communication, as he11
appears as the author of the letter to shareholders. In
both languages, almost two-thirds of the mental processes in our corpus are cognitive (72.9% in
the German texts and 71.2% in the French). The second most common type are emotive processes
in the French data (20.8%) and emotive and perceptive processes in the German (12.0% each).
Desiderative and perceptive processes are least frequent in the French texts (4% each);
desiderative processes are least frequent in the German texts (3%). It seems that mental processes
play an important role in letters to shareholders in both cultures, because they communicate
authorial stance most explicitly. Especially emotive and perceptive process types in collocation
with writer-deictic pronouns fulﬁll this function.
9
Percentages for material, verbal, mental, relational, behavioral, and existential processes are based on
the number of occurrences of process types per corpus; percentages for cognitive, emotive, perceptive,
and desiderative processes are based on the number of mental processes per corpus.
10
This function is also realized by other lexico-semantic means which are not part of the present
research.
11
All letters to shareholders in our corpus are signed by male company CEOs.
366 Anne Küppers
Verbal and relational processes rank third and fourth, with a slightly higher amount of verbal
processes in both languages. Especially mental, but also verbal and relational processes attest the
second main function of letters to the shareholders: they are used to establish the interpersonal
relation with the (potential future) shareholders in the most read component of the annual report,
as in examples (16) and (17).
(16) Wir konzentrieren uns auf unsere Kunden.
We focus on our customers.
(17) Je ne sais pas, mais ce que je sais c’est que dans la vie on ne peut pas être heureux
tout seul.
I don’t know, but I know that one cannot be happy in life being all alone.
Co-occurrences of writer-deictic pronouns in subject position with behavioral and existential
processes are very rare in both languages so that we cannot draw any generalizing conclusions,
and only say that they seem to be infrequent in letters to shareholders in the two investigated
languages.
4.3. Co-occurrences of personal pronouns and process types
Regarding the co-occurrence patterns of the writer-deicitc pronouns with the process types,
we can identify similarities as well as differences between the German and French data sets. The
co-occurrence pattern for the process types with the ﬁrst person singular pronoun is quite
heterogeneous in the two languages. In the German data, ich co-occurs most frequently with
verbal processes (48%), and je in our French data co-occurs mostly with mental processes
(41%). But the amount of co-occurrences of je and ich with mental processes is equal (44.1%
and 41.6%), whereas the number of co-occurrences of je with verbal processes (29.5%) is
considerably lower than with ich (48%). The co-occurrence of ich with verbal processes reﬂects
the function of the German CEOs who use the annual report to reﬂect the past ﬁscal year and
point out the companies’ goal achievement. The co-occurrence of je with mental and material
processes, on the contrary, illustrates the hierarchy in French companies’ working structures and
the power and responsibility of the CEO with regard to the development and coordination of the
goals (to be) attained. The pattern observed for material processes thus is opposite: je co-occurs
three times as often as ich (24.2% vs. 7.1%). Again this indicates that the French company
leader is represented as exercising more power, fulﬁlling the tasks of administrative council and
CEO, and being the main person responsible for the results of the ﬁscal year. For relational,
existential, and behavioral processes, we observed only very few co-occurrences with ‘I’
pronouns in both corpora. Concerning the subtypes of mental processes, they combine most
Authorial presence in German and French letters to shareholders 367
frequently with cognitive processes in both languages. Overall, the co-occurrence pattern is
similar in the two corpora; the frequency differences do not exceed 3% with emotive processes
as second common collocation and perceptive and desiderative processes following as third and
fourth.
In both languages, material processes co-occur most commonly with the ﬁrst person plural
pronoun ‘we’ (German wir, French nouns); the value is slightly higher in the German corpus
(67.7% vs. 61.6%). Mental and relational processes are the second and third most frequent
process types co-occurring with ‘we’, the patterns being more differentiated in the German
(mental: 18.1%, relational: 9.2%) than in the French corpus (mental: 16.7%, relational: 14.3%).
Verbal processes are the fourth frequent collocates in the German (4.7%) and French (7.1%)
texts. Existential processes co-occur only once in each language, behavioral processes never do
so with nous, while they co-occur three times with wir. Concerning the subtypes of mental
processes, the patterns differ: ‘we’ pronouns co-occur most frequently with cognitive processes
(wir in 75.5%, nous in 82.1%) in both languages. However, while the second most frequent
mental collocations are perceptive processes in the German data (13.5%), it is the emotive ones
in the French texts (16.1%). This pattern can be explained as follows: in the ﬁrst place, the letter
to shareholders reports on the company’s goal achievement in the past ﬁscal year by means of
material process types and establishes an interpersonal relation with the readership by the use of
mental and relational processes. As was indicated earlier, German and French business
communication seem to differ with regard to the linguistic realization of these functions due to
differences in internal company organization, namely a comparatively strict hierarchical
structure in French businesses, with the CEO as an individual in a truly outstanding top
position. The co-occurrence of process types with ‘we’ pronouns reinforces the interpersonal
aspect of communication and creates a double identiﬁcation with the company: that of the
employees on one side, and that of the readership and the stakeholders on the other (also see
Sections 4.3.1 and 4.3.2).
The use of the third person singular personal pronoun (‘one’, German man, French on) is
fundamentally different in our two corpora. The two occurrences of man in our German data
combine with cognitive processes. In the French texts, on is used more often and co-occurs
with different process types, except behavioral and existential ones. On co-occurs with
material processes in more than 50% of its overall uses, its second most common collocation
are mental processes with nearly one-fourth (23.3%) of the overall amount of collocations,
the great majority of these (85.7%) being cognitive. Verbal and relational processes rank
third and fourth. In the French data, the co-occurrence pattern of on resembles the pattern
with the ﬁrst person plural pronoun. As mentioned in Section 3.2, we consider the use of on
with speciﬁc reference as reﬂecting spoken language in the French letters to shareholders,
where it almost always replaces nous. This relatedness thus probably impacts on the
co-occurrence patterns.
368 Anne Küppers
4.3.1. Exclusive and inclusive reference. We outlined in Section 3.2 that our analysis accounts for
three different references of the ‘we’-pronoun:
(i) exclusive reference to the author;
(ii) inclusive reference to the author and the employees (but excluding the reader);
(iii) inclusive reference to the author, the employees, and the reader.
Whereas use (i) is typically referred to as exclusive, use (iii) is called inclusive. Use (ii) is a
hybrid form, positioned in between the traditionally inclusive and exclusive references (see
Section 3.2). The present section takes into account these different uses of ‘we’ in order to
further investigate co-occurrence patterns of personal speaker pronouns with different process
types.
Regarding the different uses of ‘we’-pronouns in our corpus, we observe the following: in the
French data, the number of use (i) (example 18) and use (ii) (example 19) is equal (48.1% each),
making up 96.2% of all occurrences of nous:
(18) Nous engageons un plan stratégique 2006–2008 avec les objectifs clés suivants: [ . . . ].
In 2006–2008, we undertake a strategic plan with the following key objectives.
(19) Comme entreprise de services, nous avons aussi un double objectif.
As a service company, we also have a double objective.
In the German data, use (ii) (example 20) is most frequent (58.3%), followed by use (i) with
40.8% (example 21) (making up 99% of wir occurrences):
(20) Wir wollen die wichtigste Bank in und für Deutschland werden.
We want to become the most important bank in and for Germany.
(21) Deshalb haben wir das Thema ‘Innovation’ als zentrales Thema unseres
Geschäftsberichts 2005 gewählt.
That is why we chose the topic of ‘innovation’ as the main theme of our 2005 annual
report.
Use (i) of ‘we’ is the second most common use in both corpora, although more frequent in the
French than the German data. This corresponds to the use of the ‘I’-pronouns je and ich:
Apparently, in French business communication, the CEO plays an important role with regard to
his personality and position within the company hierarchy; the opposite seems to hold for German
business communication, where the CEO as an individual is less prominent and as a consequence
rather more represented as a group member. We ﬁnd a comparatively reduced degree of
responsibility for corporate action explicitly encoded in the texts.
Authorial presence in German and French letters to shareholders 369
In both corpora, use (iii) is the least popular one. In the German data, not even 1% of
wir includes the reader (example 22); in the French use (iii) (example 23) is a little more
frequent (3.8%).
(22) Die Konsolidierung verstärkt sich – davon konnten wir alle uns im Jahr 2005
überzeugen.
The consolidation is intensifying – of this we are able to convince ourselves in 2005.
(23) Nous sommes en 2006, je suis donc là et l’année ne fait que commencer.
We are in 2006, I am here and the year has only just begun.
On the one hand, the infrequence of use (iii) is surprising as the letter to shareholders is said to be
the most interpersonal text part of the annual report. On the other hand, other linguistic means
than the ﬁrst person plural pronoun might fulﬁll this function (e.g. second person pronouns,
rhetoric questions and imperatives; see Kranich, 2011, for the use of epistemic modals in this
data).
Our results show that in both languages pronoun references that exclude the reader, i.e. uses
(i) and (ii), are preferred over use (iii). Readers are rarely addressed with inclusive ‘we’-pronouns.
Again, this might be the result of the topics mentioned in letters to shareholders, the role of the
CEO in the two cultures, and the hierarchic structures reigning in the companies.
4.3.2. Co-occurrences of exclusive and inclusive references and process types. Regarding the
co-occurrence patterns of uses (i), (ii), and (iii) with the different process types, we obtained the
following results: use (i) shows the most homogeneous use in the two languages. It occurs most
frequently with material processes, in more than 60% in both corpora. The next frequent
collocations are mental (in German 23.2%, in French 21%) and verbal processes (in German
8.1%, in French 12.5%). There are no collocations with behavioral nor with existential processes.
Use (i) combines with all subtypes of mental processes, the cognitive ones being the most
common collocation in both languages (in German 81.7%, in French 91.9%). Co-occurrences
with the other subtypes of mental processes are so rare that we cannot draw any general
conclusions, except for the combination of wir with perceptive processes in the German corpus.
As compared to the co-occurrences of ‘I’-pronouns with the different process types, the main
difference is the frequent collocation of material processes with use (i) of ‘we’. Co-occurrences
with verbal and mental process types are comparable to those with ‘I’.
The distribution of use (ii) is more heterogeneous: in the German corpus, the most common
predicates are material processes (69%), followed by mental (14.5%) and verbal processes (2.4%).
Use (ii) of wir combines with all process types and subtypes of mental processes in our German
data, most frequently with cognitive processes (69%), followed by perceptive (14.4%) and
emotive processes (13.4%). In the French texts, the co-occurrences of nous with a material process
370 Anne Küppers
are as well the most popular collocations (63.6%). Mental processes (11.9%) are the second and
verbal processes (2.8%) the third most common co-occurrences of nous, the respective values do
more or less comply. For the collocation with subcategories of mental processes, we have a
different pattern: use (ii) of nous co-occurs neither with behavioral nor existential processes, nor
with perceptive nor desiderative ones. In both languages, the high frequency of material processes
co-occurring with use (ii) creates corporate identity: the company’s goals have been achieved by
the leader’s and employees’ team work. Further, the high frequency of co-occurrence with mental
processes reinforces the image of the company as a coherent unit involving the employees in
decision making and reﬂecting their perceptions and feelings in the external business
communication. Especially in the German letters to shareholders, not only cognitive but also
perceptive and emotive processes are used with the objective of projecting an employee-friendly
image.
The co-occurrence pattern of the different process types with use (iii) of wir is less varied than
that with nous. In our German corpus, material (40%) and mental processes (28.6%) are the most
frequent collocations, followed by relational processes (20%). Wir in use (iii) combines neither
with verbal, behavioral, nor with existential processes, nor with perceptive nor desiderative
processes. In the French data, the most common co-occurrences are mental processes (35.7%),
namely cognitive processes, followed by material (28.6%), relational (21.4%), and existential
processes (7.1%), respectively. But the absolute values of the different process types and subtypes
of mental processes are too marginal to allow for any generalization. Again, these numbers might
reﬂect the distribution of the different process types in letters to shareholders, where the last
named ones are generally seldom.
5. DISCUSSION
Our analysis showed that writer-deictic elements are not used in the same way in German and
French letters to shareholders. The very ﬁrst observation was that personal speaker pronouns are
more frequent in the German than in the French texts. As compared to the German texts, where we
found 1,277 personal pronouns with speaker reference in a corpus of 35,648 words, the French
texts seem less speaker-oriented, with overall 515 writer-deicitc pronouns in a corpus of 40,194
words. This observation is in line with the ﬁndings from previous research on letters to
shareholders in the two languages, where the French business communication style is said to be
rather impersonal (Suomela-Salmi & Gambier, 1994; Bextermöller, 2002).
With regard to the occurrences of speaker reference in the two languages, we ﬁnd diverging
patterns: in using je (‘I’) and uses (i) and (ii) of nous (‘we’) to a greater extent than ich (‘I) and
the corresponding forms of wir (‘we’), the French individual author is more explicitly present in
the texts than his German counterpart. The important role of the CEO and the resulting orientation
Authorial presence in German and French letters to shareholders 371
toward an individualized self in the French letters to shareholders (Ammon & Knoblauch, 2001) is
also underlined by the co-occurrence patterns of the writer-deictic pronouns and process types.
The comparatively high number of co-occurrences of je with material processes represents the
author as responsible for actions and as acting on his own authority. The even higher number of
combinations with mental and verbal processes shows that the person of the CEO is presented as
even more important in taking decisions for the development of the company; the CEO is also
presented as being personally involved in corporate action through explicit expressions of opinion
and attitudes toward corporate action. The comparatively pronounced orientation toward the
CEO’s self does not mean that corporate identity is not communicated in the French texts. The
higher number of combinations of uses (ii) and (iii) with material and relational processes (as
compared to their co-occurrence with use (i)) expresses that corporate action and potential success
are realized by the company community.
In the German texts, the ﬁrst person singular pronoun ich (‘I’) is less frequent. It mainly
co-occurs with verbal and mental verbs, expressing authorial stances. But the use of the ﬁrst
person plural pronoun wir (‘we’) is higher as compared to the French data. By choosing between
the different reference frames of the ‘we’-pronoun, the author can express various types of
individual and collective implication: for example, he can present himself as a member of an
(imaginary) group of authors or as a member of the company collective; the author can address the
reader, direct her/his attention to speciﬁc information, and presuppose agreement. In the German
texts, the ﬁrst person plural personal pronoun wir is the preferred speaker deictic element. As has
been outlined in research on other corpora and different genres, the use of the ﬁrst person plural
personal pronoun generally avoids individual responsibility (Baumgarten, 2008; House, 1996;
Kranich, 2011; Vassileva, 1998). With regard to the presence of ‘we’-pronouns, uses (ii) and
(iii) reduce the textualization of exclusive responsibility of the CEO. The dominance of wir (‘we’,
especially of use (ii)) lets the individual CEO off the hook and at the same time presents the
company as a group of collaborators, rather than representing hierarchic structures in the texts.
The focus lies on the expression of a corporate identity via reference to the company community
(use (ii)); the orientation toward the CEO’s self is less pronounced. Use (i) of ‘we’ is the second
most common use in both corpora. Here, the CEO as an individual is less prominent and
represented as a group member. Hence, we ﬁnd a comparatively reduced degree of responsibility
for corporate action explicitly encoded in the texts, as it is shared by the members of the reference
frame of ‘we’. The external reader is not included in the company business and does not inﬂuence
its corporate policy, why use (iii) is the least common in both languages. The low frequency also
indicates a low degree of interpersonality in the letters to shareholders, an observation also made
by Bextermöller (2002) and by Suomela-Salmi and Gambier (1994).
The third person singular pronoun (‘one’, German man, French on) is more frequent in the
French than in the German texts. This is possibly due to the fact that on generally has become
more and more conventional in spoken French, widely replacing nous (Fonseca-Greber & Waugh,
372 Anne Küppers
2001), and French annual reports have been described as resembling French spoken discourse
(Schlierer, 2004, p. 303). The ﬁndings of the present analysis are in line with studies that describe
French external business communication as essentially dynamic, i.e. written texts show
characteristics of spoken language, which creates a greater sense of communicative immediacy
and interactivity (Koch & Österreicher, 2001; Suomela-Salmi & Gambier, 1994). Man does not
replace any other speaker pronoun in German and is thus less frequently used as nominative
speaker-deictic pronoun in subject position in the texts investigated here. The number of two
occurrences in the whole German sub-corpus is too small to draw any conclusions.
In both corpora, material processes are most frequent. This is certainly due to the fact that
letters to shareholders mainly serve as activity reports for the past ﬁscal year of the company and
present the perspectives and anticipations for the following year. Relational processes function to
express the conditions the company was in or aims at. Their role is thus quite similar to that of
material processes. Gazdar and Kirchhoff (2001) put forth that one characteristic of German
business communication is its factual and sober representation of the company, implying a rather
impersonal tone (see Section 2). These ﬁndings can be underlined by the predominance of
material processes in our data, reporting on the goals achieved during the past trading year. The
co-occurrence of mental and verbal processes with writer-deictic pronouns expresses the author’s
opinions and attitudes. Business management is based on cognitive processes related to strategy
development, decision making, and the like. Consequently, cognitive processes are more frequent
than emotive or perceptive processes in our data. In both languages, the style of business
communication is said to be more theory- and task-oriented, rational, and aiming at depicting
mere facts (Section 2). This explains why material and relational processes are more frequent than
mental, verbal, behavioral, or existential processes.
6. CONCLUSION
The French letters to shareholders represent the CEO as an individual person by referring to the
author of the text most frequently through the exclusive personal pronouns. This orientation
toward the author’s self is explained by the important role of the CEO in French company
structure. Exclusive pronouns are most commonly used in combination with mental and verbal
processes in order to express the CEO’s attitude toward and opinion about corporate activity and
to represent him as an individual that identiﬁes with the company community. These collocations
signal that the CEO is the one who makes decisions, plans for the following ﬁscal year and, thus,
occupies the most powerful position in the company. The use of inclusive pronoun reference
would compromise the representation of the CEO as an individual person. Inclusive pronoun
reference is combined frequently with material and relational processes in order to show that
success and failure also depend on the company community, which puts into practice what was
Authorial presence in German and French letters to shareholders 373
decided by the company leader. French letters to shareholders generally seem to be less personal,
as writer-deictic pronouns are less frequent than in the German texts. But when the author appears
in the text by means of a personal pronoun, the latter often collocates with verbs expressing
stances (e.g. mental and verbal processes).
In the German letters to shareholders, the orientation toward the CEO’s persona is
comparatively reduced. Occurrences of ich (‘I’) and use (i) of the plural writer-deictic pronoun
wir are lower and the frequency of use (ii) is comparatively higher than in the French data. The
collocation of pronouns and process types in the German texts expresses a shared responsibility
for corporate actions, encompassing the executive board and/or the company community as a
whole. Furthermore, the German texts seem to be more oriented toward content. That is, the
higher number of material and relational processes and comparatively fewer mental processes in
the German than in the French data let the author appear as more in favor of the nonemotional and
nonattitudinal presentation of facts.
In sum, our results show that letters to shareholders of different languages use – to a certain
degree – similar constructions that can be said to be genre-speciﬁc, e.g. the dominance of material
processes over other process types, reﬂecting the main task of the letter to shareholders, namely to
report on the company’s activities during the past trade year; the presence of writer-deictic
pronouns to build up an interpersonal relation with the readership of the letter to shareholders; the
lower amount of ‘I’-pronouns as compared to ‘we’-pronouns to refer to the author in subject
position; the preference for cognitive processes over other mental processes, indicating that
reporting on decision-making processes is more important than the expression of emotions or
wishes, and so on. However, we were able to outline language-speciﬁc patterns in the use and
combination of these elements. Further investigations of the discourse functions fulﬁlled by the
co-occurrences of personal pronouns and process types as well as the comparison with other
languages could give further insights in the ways authors of letters to shareholders represent
themselves and the company in their texts.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The research was conducted in the context of the author’s Master’s thesis (Küppers, 2007) at
the University of Hamburg and in collaboration with the project K4 at the Research Centre on
Multilingualism at the University of Hamburg (funded by the German Science Foundation). The
present chapter is a revised version of the Master’s thesis and the paper 87-2008 Working papers
in Multilingualism at the University of Hamburg (Küppers, 2008). I would like to thank
J. House, N. Baumgarten, V. Becher, S. Kranich, M. Elsig, and L. Pietsch for their assistance
and valuable remarks. I thank L. Mortier and L. Degand for their support and helpful comments
on the present text.
374 Anne Küppers
REFERENCES
Ammon, G., & Knoblauch, J. (2001). Der französische Managementstil: Zum Verständnis des Verhaltens
französischer Führungskräfte. In J. Bolten & D. Schröter (Eds.), Im Netzwerk interkulturellen
Handelns: Theoretische und praktische Perspektiven der interkulturellen Kommunikationsforschung
(pp. 226–241). Sternenfels: Verlag Wissenschaft und Praxis.
Baumgarten, N. (2008). Writer construction in English and German popularized academic discourse. The
uses of we and wir. Multilingua. Journal of Cross-cultural and Interlanguage Communication, 27(4),
409–438.
Baumgarten, N., & Özc
-etin, D. (2008). Linguistic variation through language contact in translation. In
P. Siemund & N. Kintana (Eds.), Language contact and contact languages (pp. 293–316). Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Bernhardt, S. A. (1985). The writer, the reader, and the scientiﬁc text. Journal of technical writing and
communication, 15(2), 163–174.
Bextermöller, M. (2002). Empirisch linguistische Analyse des Geschäftsberichts. Paderborn: Musikwis-
senschaften-Unternehmenskommunikation.
Bolten, J., Kalverkämper, H., & Baumann, K. (1996). Interkulturalität, Interlingualität und Standar-
disierung bei der Öffentlichkeitsarbeit von Unternehmen: Gezeigt an amerikanischen, britischen,
deutschen, französischen und russischen Geschäftsberichten. In H. Kalverkämper & K. D. Baumann
(Eds.), Fachliche Textsorten: Komponenten – Relationen – Strategien (pp. 389–425). Tübingen: Narr.
Byrnes, H. (1986). Interactional style in German and English conversations. In D. Tannen (Ed.), Crosscultural
communication. Text, 6(1), 189–206..
Clyne, M. (1987). Cultural differences in the organization of academic texts. Journal of Pragmatics, 11,
101–124.
Clyne, M. (1993). Pragmatik, Textstruktur und kulturelle Werte: Eine interkulturelle Perspektive. In
H. Schröder (Ed.), Fachtextpragmatik (pp. 3–18). Tübingen: Narr.
Ditlevsen, M. G. (2002). Der Geschäftsbericht aus kommunikativ-funktionaler Perspektive. In C. Thimm
(Ed.), Unternehmenskommunikation ofﬂine/online: Wandelprozesse interner und externer Unterneh-
menskommunikation durch neue Medien (pp. 54–75). Berlin: Lang.
Doherty, M. (1996). Passive perspectives: Different preferences in English and German – A result of
parameterized processing. Linguistics, 34(3), 591–643.
Doherty, M. (2003). Parameterized beginnings of sentences in English and German. Across Languages and
Cultures, 4(1), 19–51.
Eggins, S., & Martin, J. R. (1997). Genres and registers of discourse. In T. A. van Dijk (Ed.), Discourse as
structure and process (pp. 230–258). London: Sage.
Ehlich, K. (1982). Anaphora and deixis: Same, similar or different. In R. J. Jarvella & W. Klein (Eds.), Speech,
place, and action: Studies in deixis and related topics (pp. 315–338). New York, NY: Wiley.
Ehlich, K. (1983). Deixis und Anapher. In G. Rauh (Ed.), Essays on deixis (pp. 79–97). Tübingen: Narr.
Fløttum, K. (1998). Le Mot du P.D.G. – descriptif ou polémique ? In Y. Gambier (Ed.), Discours
professionnels en Franc
-ais (pp. 105–122). Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Fonseca-Greber, B., & Waugh, L. R. (2001). The subject clitics of conversational European French:
Morphologization, grammatical change, semantic change, and change in progress. In R. Nunez-
Cedeno, L. López, & R. Cameron (Eds.), A Romance perspective on language knowledge and use:
Selected papers from the 31st Linguistic Symposium on Romance Languages (LSRL), Chicago, 19–22
April 2001 (pp. 99–117). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Authorial presence in German and French letters to shareholders 375
Gazdar, K., & Kirchhoff, K. R. (2001). Geschäftsbericht ohne Fehl und Tadel: Sprache, Gestaltung, Botschaft
erfolgreicher Finanzkommunikation. Neuwied: Luchterhand.
Garzone, G. (2004). Annual company reports and CEO’s letters: Discoursal features and cultural markedness.
In C. N. Candlin & M. Gotti (Eds.), Intercultural aspects of specialized communication (pp. 311–341).
Bern: Peter Lang.
Gohr, M. (2002). Geschäftsbericht und Aktionärsbrief-eine textsortenlinguistische Analyse mit anwendungs-
bezogenen Aspekten. Doctoral thesis, Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf. Retrieved from http://
deposit.ddb.de/cgi-bin/dokserv?idn¼964505614.
Grevisse, M. (2001). Le bon usage: Grammaire franc
-aise (13th ed.). Paris: Duculot.
Halliday, M. A. K. (1994). An introduction to functional grammar (2nd ed.). London: Arnold.
Halliday, M. A. K., & Matthiessen, C. (2004). An introduction to functional grammar (3rd ed.). London:
Arnold.
Hassinen, T., & Wenner, M. (1994). Zur Selbstdarstellung in Werk- und Kundenzeitschriften. In T. Bungarten
(Ed.), Selbstdarstellung und Öffentlichkeitsarbeit. Eigenbild und Fremdbild von Unternehmen (pp. 27–48).
Tostedt: Attikon Verlag.
House, J. (1996). Contrastive discourse analysis and misunderstanding: The case of German and English. In
M. Hellinger & U. Ammon (Eds.), Contrastive sociolinguistics (pp. 345–361). Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
House, J. (1999). Zur Relevanz kontrastiv-pragmatischer und interkultureller Diskursanalysen für das
Fachübersetzen. In H. Gerzymisch-Arbogast, J. House & A. Rothkegel (Eds.), Wege der Übersetzungs-
und Dolmetschforschung (pp. 43–54). Tübingen: Narr.
House, J. (2003). Misunderstanding in intercultural university encounters. In J. House, G. Kasper & S. Ross
(Eds.), Misunderstanding in social life. Discourse approaches to problematic talk (pp. 22–56). Harlow:
Pearson.
Hyland, K. (2001). Humble servants for the discipline? Self-mention in research articles. English for Speciﬁc
Purposes, 20, 207–226.
Hyland, K. (2002). Authority and invisibility: Authorial identity in academic writing. Journal of pragmatics,
34, 1091–1112.
Koch, P., & Oesterreicher, W. (2001). Gesprochene Sprache und geschriebene Sprache: Langage parlé et
langage écrit. In G. Holtus, M. Metzeltin & C. Schmitt (Eds.), Lexikon der romanistischen Linguistik
(Vol. 1/2, pp. 584–627). Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Kotthoff, H. (1989). Pro und Kontra in der Fremdsprache. Frankfurt am Main: Lang.
Kranich, S. (2011). L’emploi des expressions épistémiques dans des lettres aux actionnaires en France, aux
Etats-Unis et en Allemagne. Langage et Société, 137, 115–134.
Kunkel-Razum, K., & Münzberg, F. (2006). Duden: Die Grammatik (Vol. 4, No. 7). Mannheim: Duden
Verlag..
Küppers, A. (2007). Zur Verwendung der Personaldeixis in deutschen und französischen Aktionärsbriefen:
Eine kontrastiv-quantitative Korpusanalyse. Unpublished MA thesis, University of Hamburg,
Germany.
Küppers, A. (2008). Sprecherdeiktika in deutschen und französischen Aktionärsbriefen. Working Papers on
Multilingualism, Series B No. 87. University of Hamburg, Hamburg.
Martin, J. R., Matthiessen, C. M. I. M., & Painter, C. (1997). Working with functional grammar. London:
Arnold.
Riegel, M., Pellat, J.-C., & Rioul, R. (1999). Grammaire méthodique du franc
-ais (5th ed.). Paris: Presses
Universitaires de France.
376 Anne Küppers
Samson, C. (2004). Interaction in written economics lectures: The meta-discursive role of person markers. In
K. Aijmer & A.-B. Stenström (Eds.), Discourse patterns in spoken and written corpora (pp. 199–216).
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Schlierer, H.-J. (2004). Kulturspeziﬁsche Stilmerkmale deutscher und französischer Geschäftsberichte. Eine
kontrastive Analyse. St. Ingbert: Röhrig Universitätsverlag.
Steiner, E., & Teich, E. (2004). Metafunctional proﬁle of the grammar of German. In A. Caffarel &
J. R. Martin (Eds.), Language typology: A functional perspective (pp. 139–184). Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Suomela-Salmi, E., & Gambier, Y. (1994). Le mot du PDG: Un leurre Franco-Finlandais. In S. Moirand S.,
A. Ali Bouacha, J.-C. Beacco & A. Collinot (Eds.), Parcours linguistiques de discours specializes
(pp. 219–230). Frankfurt am Main: Lang.
Vassileva, I. (1998). Who am I/Who are we in academic writing? International Journal of Applied linguistics,
8(2), 163–190.
Authorial presence in German and French letters to shareholders 377
This page intentionally left blank
Subjectivity in Language and in Discourse
Edited by Nicole Baumgarten, Inke Du Bois and Juliane House
r 2012 by Emerald Group Publishing Limited. All rights reserved.
17
SELF-PRESENTATION AND ADAPTATION IN
INSTITUTIONAL DISCOURSE: AN ANALYSIS OF
GERMAN AND FRENCH INTRODUCTORY ROUNDS
OF UNIVERSITY SEMINARS
Claudia Scharioth
1. INTRODUCTION
This chapter is concerned with one aspect of institutional discourse in Germany and France.
It deals with self-presentation and speech accommodation, concentrating speciﬁcally on how
participants in university seminars introduce themselves to the other participants in the class.1
The study investigates the individual students’ communicative behaviours in this speciﬁc
institutional setting, focusing on the way how students adopt utterance structure and choice of
words from previous speakers. The chapter is structured as follows: Sections 2 and 3 provide
information on the theoretical and interdisciplinary perspective of the study and present the
empirical data. The two main hypotheses underlying the analysis are introduced and
investigated in Section 4. The main results of the analysis and their bearing on the phenome-
non of self-presentation are discussed in Section 5. Section 6 draws a brief and general
conclusion.
1
These introductions are a very common practice in seminars at German and French universities. They
take place in the ﬁrst session of the seminar. The idea is for the participans to get acquainted with each
other (see Section 3).
2. THEORETICAL BACKGROUND
This study represents an interdisciplinary perspective on language use. It is only with an
interdisciplinary approach that we are able to trace the multiple layers of the communicative
behaviours in the speciﬁc setting investigated here. The methodology used in the analysis draws
on Conversation Analysis (e.g. Adamzik, 2001; Deppermann, 2001; Henne & Rehbock, 2001;
Sacks, Schegloff, & Jefferson, 1974) in order to classify self-presentation patterns. The inﬂuence
of institutions on the participants’ speech and action patterns is well described in and explained by
studies in the ﬁeld of Linguistics (e.g. Becker-Mrotzek, 1990; Bendel, 2007; Ehlich & Rehbein,
1983; Koerfer & Zeck, 1983; Wodak, 1987). The analysis of adaptation has emerged within
different traditions and disciplines in Sociology and Psychology: from the tradition of
Interpretative Sociology, from the Symbolic Interactionist perspective and from the discipline
of Ethnomethodology. In this paper I adopt the sociopsychological model of Speech-
Accommodation Theory (SAT) by Giles, which is ‘‘devised to explain some of the motivations
underlying certain shifts in people’s speech styles during social encounters’’ (Giles & Beebe,
1984, p. 7). I agree with Giles, Coupland, and Coupland (1991) that this theory can be considered
as the ‘‘predominant theory at the interface between language, communication, and social
psychology’’ (p. 2).
SAT starts from the basic assumption that every speaker has a speech repertoire from which he
or she makes a choice, and thus in his or her own turn at talk converges with or diverges from
others:
Convergence has been deﬁned as a linguistic strategy whereby individuals adapt to
each other’s speech by means of a wide range of linguistic features. (Giles & Beebe, 1984, p. 234)
One effect of the convergence of speech patterns is that it allows the sender to be perceived as
more similar to the receiver than would have been the case had he not accommodated his style of
speaking in this manner. (Giles & Powesland 1975/1997, p. 234)
Divergence refers to the way in which speakers accentuate vocal differences between themselves
and others. (Giles, Mulac, Bradoc, & Johnson, 1987, p. 14)
The individual creates from himself the patterns of his linguistic behaviour ( . . . ) so as to
be unlike those from whom he wishes to be distinguished. (Le Page & Tabouret-Keller, 1985,
p. 181)
Obviously, these two concepts – convergence and divergence – are in conﬂict and it needs to be
analysed in which situations speakers choose to either accommodate their speech pattern to those
around them or distinguish themselves from the other speakers. In the present empirical study
I analysed accommodation and convergence in students’ communicative behaviours in the
institutional setting of university seminars.
380 Claudia Scharioth
3. DATA
The corpus consists of 19 audio-recorded introductory rounds in seminars at six different
universities in Germany and France.2
All recordings were made from July to October 2007, always
in the ﬁrst session of a seminar, where the students had to introduce themselves to their fellow
seminar participants and to the teacher or lecturer. Typically, in introductory rounds the teacher/
lecturer asks the students to introduce themselves, generally without specifying details about what
kind of information the introduction should comprise. The introductory round starts with one
participant in the front row of the class, usually the one seated closest to the teacher/lecturer, and
then proceeds in systematic fashion along the row(s) of desks until every participant has had
the ﬂoor. It is not possible for a participant to jump the queue or to opt out. The introductory rounds
recorded for the present analysis vary in length: the shortest round is 2:18 minutes long
(15 participants); the longest took 14:44 minutes (27 participants). The speakers are all students and
between 18 and 30 years old. The majority are native speakers of either German or French. The
recorded seminars were held at the universities’ Arts faculties but concern different (sub)disciplines
such as Linguistics, German language courses, Cultural Science or Law. The number of participants
varied between 6 and 30 students per seminar; in total 278 students introduce themselves in the
data. Example (1) illustrates student self-presentation in an introductory round.
(1) Ich heiXe Maria und ich studiere im ersten Semester Soziologie.
Je m’appelle Maria et je suis en première année de licence de sociologie.
My name is Maria and I am studying Sociology in my ﬁrst semester.3
As self-presentation in the introductory round is the ﬁrst impression the other participants in the
class (both students and the teacher/lecturer) get from this person, one could assume that each
participant aims to present himself or herself in a very positive manner. Introductory rounds could
be the moment of self-presentation par excellence, which means that the participants could aim to
distinguish themselves from the others in a positive way. The strategic and tactical wish to
establish and create a positive image can be seen as a fundamental social motivation, as it ‘‘allows
us considerable social power over others’’ (Giles et al., 1987, p. 35). Consequently, this would
lead to self-presentations which would all be very different from one another, as everybody is
different. Examples (2) and (3) show how that is not the case in introductory rounds.
2
Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin; Europa-Universität Viadrina Frankfurt (Oder); Université Lumière
Lyon 2; École Normale Supérieure (ENS) Lyon; Université de la Sorbonne Nouvelle Paris 3; Université
Caen. The introductory rounds were fully transcribed and analyzed (see Scharioth, 2008).
3
In all transcripts presented here the English translation is as close as possible to the German and
French original.
Self-presentation and adaptation in institutional discourse 381
(2) German introductory round (English translation below)
09 SW8:4
Ich bin Cordula und ich studiere im ersten Semester Mics.5
10 SM9: Ich bin Andreas und ich studiere im ersten Semester Mics.
11 SM10: Ich heiXe Tonio und ich studiere im zweiten Semester Mediation.
12 SM11: Ich heiXe Benny und ich studiere auch im ersten Semester Mics.
09 SW8E: I am Cordula and I am studying Mics in my ﬁrst semester.
10 SM9E: I am Andreas and I am studying Mics in my ﬁrst semester.
11 SM10E: My name is Tonio and I am studying Mediation in my second semester.
12 SM11E: My name is Benny and I am also studying Mics in my ﬁrst semester.
(3) French introductory round (English translation below)
15 SW7: Je m’appelle Élodie, je fais une licence eh spécialité allemande.
16 SW8: Je m’appelle Pauline, je fais une licence spécialité d’allemand.
17 SW9: Je m’appelle Charly, je fais une licence spécialité d’anglais.
18 SM10: Je m’appelle Baptiste, je fais une licence de socio et de langue.
15 SW7E: My name is Élodie and I am studying in my third year eh with a focus
on German.
16 SW8E: My name is Pauline and I am studying in my third year with a focus on
German.
17 SW9E: My name is Charly and I am studying in my third year with a focus on
English.
18 SM10E: My name is Baptiste and I am studying in my third year Sociology and
Languages.
4. MAIN RESULTS
4.1. Results in favour of convergence
Looking at the excerpts from the introductory rounds in (2) and (3) suggests that all self-
presentations are very similar. If we look at these examples closely, we can formulate two
hypotheses:
1. Hypothesis (1): Students in introductory rounds adopt the structure, the content (name,
degree, semester, origin) and the length (in minutes and seconds) of the introduction
from previous speakers.
4
Transcription conventions: Example: 09 SW8E: 09: Number of utterance; SW: Student female / SM:
Student male; 8: 8th participant given the ﬂoor; E: English translation.
5
‘‘Mics’’ is short for ‘‘Master of Intercultural Communication Studies’’.
382 Claudia Scharioth
2. Hypothesis (2): Students in introductory rounds adopt the choice of words, i.e.
‘introductory words’ and start-off signals, from previous speakers.
The analysis showed that in the majority of all seminars, students in Germany and France
mention the same aspects in their own presentation as the person who preceded them, i.e. they
mostly mention their name, their degree, their semester and their origin. In more than 66% of
the cases – and sometimes even 100% – the students adopt the length of the introduction from the
previous speaker. The length varies from seminar to seminar, from 2.8 seconds to 1.5 minutes.
Only very few students speak faster than the others or take more time for their own self-
presentation. Thus, hypothesis (1) could be conﬁrmed.
‘Introductory words’ are expressions with the function of saying one’s name, such as ich bin
(‘I am’), ich heiXe (‘my name is’), mein Name ist (‘my name is’) in German and je m’appelle (‘my
name is’), moi, c’est (‘I am), je suis (‘I am’) in French. Tables 17.1 and 17.2 show the frequencies
of the introductory words in the French and German introductory rounds.
Table 17.1. French introductory words (in percent of the total of introductions)
French
je m’appelle (‘my name is’) 63.2
moi, c’est (‘I am’) 11.4
je suis (‘I am’) 10.6
Othera
14.3
a
These students did not use a verb and started their presentation by mentioning their names directly. Others did
not say their names at all (cf. Scharioth, 2008, pp. 55–61).
Table 17.2. German introductory words (in percent of the total of introductions)
German
ich bin (‘I am’) 53
ich heiXe (‘my name is’) 31.1
mein Name ist (‘my name is’) 12.2
Othera
3.7
a
These students did not use a verb and started their presentation by mentioning their names directly. Others did
not say their names at all (cf. Scharioth, 2008, pp. 55–61).
Self-presentation and adaptation in institutional discourse 383
In 6 out of 10 German seminars, the majority of students used exactly the same words as the
previous speaker. Example (4) illustrates convergence in self-presentation through the adaption of
introductory words in seven consecutive speakers out of a total of 29 seminar participants.
(4) German seminar (29 participants)
23 SW9: Ja, ich bin Kirsten, zweites Semester Kuwi und . . .
24 SM10: Ich bin Eric und ich bin auch im zweiten Semester Kulturwissenschaften
und . . .
26 SW11: Ich bin Jana, ( ) und ehm . . .
27 SW12: Ja, ich bin Nicole, viertes Semester, und eh . . .
29 SW13: Ja, ich bin Lena, bin im fünften Semester, und ehm . . .
31 SW14: Ich bin (Agata), komme aus Polen, . . .
34 SW15: Eh, ich bin Kathrin, und eh . . .
23 SW9E: Yeah, I’m Kirsten, second semester Cultural Science and . . .
24 SM10E: I’m Eric und I’m also studying in my second semester Cultural Science
and . . .
26 SW11E: I’m Jana, ( ) and ehm . . .
27 SW12E: Yeah, I’m Nicole, fourth semester, and eh . . .
29 SW13E: Yeah, I’m Lena, I’m in my ﬁfth semester, and ehm . . .
31 SW14E: I’m (Agata), I come from Poland, . . .
34 SW15E: Eh, I’m Kathrin, and eh . . .
In the seminars in France convergence occurs even more often: In seven out of nine
introductory rounds the majority of students tends towards the exact adaptation of the words of the
previous speaker.
(5) French seminar (14 participants)
06 SW2: Je m’appelle Aline, je viens d’Hypocagne
et . . .
07 SW3: Je m’appelle Alison, je suis en troisième
année de licence de lettres modernes et . . .
08 SW4: Je m’appelle Julie, je rentre en première
année de licence d’anglais LLCE6
et . . .
09 SW5: Je m’appelle Barbara, je viens de Rennes et je suis en première
année de licence d’anglais . . .
10 SW6: Je m’appelle Marion, je suis en première
année de licence d’anglais LLCE et . . .
6
‘‘LLCE’’ is short for ‘‘Langue Litterature Civilisation Étrangère’’ (Language Literature and Foreign
Civilisations).
384 Claudia Scharioth
11 SW7: Je m’appelle (Brice), je suis en troisième
année de licence d’anglais LLCE et . . .
12 SW8: Je m’appelle (Geroce), jepremière année de licence de
communication et littérature et . . .
06 SW2E: My name is Aline, I’m coming from
Hypocagne University and . . .
07 SW3E: My name is Alison, I’m in my third year of
my studies in Modern Literature and . . .
08 SW4E: My name is Julie, I’m in my ﬁrst year of
my studies in English LLCE and . . .
09 SW5E: My name is Barbara, I come from
Rennes and I’m in my ﬁrst year of English studies . . .
10 SW6E: My name is Marion, I’m in my ﬁrst year of
English studies LLCE and . . .
11 SW7E: My name is (Brice), I’m in my third year
of English studies LLCE and . . .
12 SW8E: My name is (Geroce), I’m in ﬁrst year of Communication and
Literature Studies and . . .
Start-off signals are linguistic devices which are placed before the introductory words (e.g. ‘my
name is’), such as German ja (‘yes’/’yeah’), also (‘well’), ehm (‘ehm’), eh (‘eh’), okay (‘okay’),
gut (‘well’), hallo (‘hello’) and French bonjour (‘good day’), eh (‘eh’), bah (‘bah’), bon (‘good’),
voilà (‘right’), donc (‘so’), alors (‘so’). In the present context only the pragmatic function of these
words is taken into consideration; their classiﬁcation as adverb, interjection or salutation, etc. is
not analysed.
In both the French and the German self-presentations, start-off signals are used in abundance;
however, there is no adaptation of the same start-off signal from one speaker to the next speaker.
(6) German seminar (7 participants)
06 SW2: Also, ich heiXe
12 SW3: Ehm, ich heiXe
18 SW4: Ja, mein Name ist
06 SW2E: Well, I’m
12 SW3E: Ehm, I’m
18 SW4E: Yes, my name is
(7) French seminar (8 participants)
04 SW3: Moi, je suis
05 SW4: Eh, je suis
06 SW5: Et moi je m’appelle
Self-presentation and adaptation in institutional discourse 385
04 SW3E: Me, I’m
05 SW4E: Eh, I’m
06 SW5E: And me, my name is
The only start-off signal which is used with high frequency (27.1% of all introductions) and is
adapted by following speakers is bonjour (‘good day’) in France.7
See example (8).
(8) French seminar (19 participants)
15 SW10: Bonjour, je m’appelle
16 SW11: Bonjour, je m’appelle
17 SW12: Bonjour, je m’appelle
18 SW13: Bonjour, je m’appelle
15 SW10E: Good day, my name is
16 SW11E: Good day, my name is
17 SW12E: Good day, my name is
18 SW13E: Good day, my name is
Thus, the ﬁrst part of hypothesis (2) – the adaptation of introductory words – can be conﬁrmed;
the second part – the adaptation of start-off signals – must be rejected.
In general in both the French and the German data, it is typically the ﬁrst speaker in the
introductory round who ‘invents’ the model of self-presentation which is then followed by the
other class participants.
4.2. Results in favour of divergence
The results presented above indicate that most speakers choose the linguistic strategy of
convergence in self-presentation. Yet, the data also shows that there is always a minority of speakers
who do not accommodate their speech, but diverge. There are several ways of distinguishing
oneself from the others. Speakers either make jokes, talk about personal matters or use special
words such as hallo erstmal (‘hello for now’), especially when nobody else used these words
before. The participants who diverge typically speak at a later point in the introductory round.
Overall, student communicative behaviour in introductory rounds in Germany and France is
very similar and it is not possible to show sizeable differences between the ways self-presentation
is handled by students in these two countries.
7
German Guten Tag (‘Good day’) did not occur at all in the German seminars. French informal Salut
(‘hello’) did not appear in the French data; German informal Hallo (‘hello’) is used in Germany in 4.8%
of all cases (cf. Scharioth 2008, pp. 63–66).
386 Claudia Scharioth
5. DISCUSSION
The data showed that most participants in university seminars adopt utterance structure
and choice of words from the previous speaker when it comes to introducing themselves in class.
SAT can explain the communicative behaviour of the students in that
[a]ccommodation through speech can be regarded as an attempt on the part of a speaker to
modify or disguise his persona [sic!] in order to make it more acceptable to the person addressed.
(Giles & Powesland, 1975/1997, p. 233)
In particular, Giles and Powesland (1975/1997) and Giles et al. (1991) argue that speech
convergence correlates positively with the positive evaluation of the person of the speaker
who converges by the other participants – to the degree that ‘‘the more effort at convergence a
speaker was perceived to have made [...], the more favorably that person was evaluated’’ (Giles et al.,
1991, p. 6).
In the particular situation of the introductory round, then, it seems quite clear that self-
presentation and adaptation stand in conﬂict with each other. The choice is between self-
presentation through speech divergence and thus making one’s individual ‘persona’ explicit on the
one hand, and self-presentation through accommodation, on the other hand, which is
inconspicuous self-presentation as ‘one of the crowd’ (Jungbluth, 2007, p. 75). Because every
linguistic act is directed towards others – motivated by the desire to modify the way in which the
speaker is evaluated by others (Giles & Powesland, 1975/1997, p. 181) – and most people do not
aim to present themselves in an individual and different way, social identity, i.e. the ‘selves’ that
people construct and maintain through social interactions and the appropriation of resources,
including language, space, time, and routinized practices (Ayometzi, 2007, p. 42), seems to be
more relevant than personal identity in this institutional setting.
Adaptation and convergence seem to be very important strategies in this kind of interaction.
Giles and Beebe (1984) argue that
[d]uring social interaction, participants are motivated to adjust (or accommodate) their speech
styles as means of gaining one or more of the following goals: evoking listeners’ social approval,
attaining communicational efﬁciency between interactants, and maintaining positive social
identities. (p. 8)
The process of speech accommodation – i.e. the reduction of dissimilarities between the
participants in the seminar – may thus be a reﬂection of the individuals’ desire for recognition,
attractiveness, understanding and agreement. Besides, the notion of cooperation in social
interaction (Grice, 1975, pp. 41–58) – which is an essence of all communicative acts – plays an
important role in this setting as well.
Self-presentation and adaptation in institutional discourse 387
6. CONCLUSION
This chapter looked at the phenomenon of adaptation in self-presentation in institutional
discourse from the perspective of SAT. The analysis showed that in introductory rounds students
adopt the structure, the content and the length of their self-presentation from previous speakers.
Additionally, students also accommodate their speech to those around them by adopting the
introductory words from previous speakers. Start-off signals are used frequently, but there is no
adaptation of the same start-off signal by consecutive speakers. In all, the majority of all students
at the French and German universities investigated tended towards speech convergence in this
speciﬁc setting. That is, instead of taking the opportunity to present themselves as individual
persons, they preferred to stand out as little as possible from the other participants in the class.
Overall, only few speakers diverge in their language use from their previous speakers: These
speakers are always in the minority in the classroom and usually take the ﬂoor comparatively late.
Future research on self-presentation in groups could consider settings other than universities,
such as e.g. project groups in business contexts, training workshops or therapeutic group sessions,
as the pattern of self-presentation and adaptation might be different in these settings. This could
provide proof for the assumption that the speciﬁc institution and setting can have a great inﬂuence
on the communicative behaviour of the speakers in terms of the degree to which they position
themselves as individual persons immediately on the occasion of the ﬁrst meeting. This kind of
research could thus contribute to a deeper and more comprehensive understanding of human
behaviour in institutional contexts.
REFERENCES
Adamzik, K. (2001). Aspekte der Gesprächstypologisierung. In K. Brinker, G. Antos, W. Heinemann &
F. S. Sager (Eds.), Text- und Gesprächslinguistik (pp. 1472–1484). Berlin: de Gruyter.
Ayometzi, C. C. (2007). Storying as becoming. Identity through the telling of conversion. In M. Bamberg,
A. De Fina & D. Schiffrin (Eds.), Selves and identities in narrative and discourse (pp. 41–70).
Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Becker-Mrotzek, M. (1990). Kommunikation und Sprache in Institutionen. Ein Forschungsbericht zur Analyse
institutioneller Kommunikation. Deutsche Sprache, 2, 158–190.
Bendel, S. (2007). Sprachliche Individualität in der Institution. Telefongespräche in der Bank und individuelle
Gestaltung. Tübingen: A. Francke.
Deppermann, A. (2001). Gespräche analysieren. Eine Einführung in konversationsanalytische Methoden.
Opladen: Leske und Budrich.
Ehlich, K., & Rehbein, J. (Eds.). (1983). Kommunikation in Schule und Hochschule. Linguistische und
ethnomethodologische Analysen. Tübingen: Narr.
Giles, H., & Beebe, L. M. (1984). Speech-accommodation theories: A discussion in terms of second-language
acquisition. International Journal of the Sociology of Language, 46, 5–32.
388 Claudia Scharioth
Giles, H., Coupland, N., & Coupland, J. (Eds.). (1991). Contexts of accommodation: Developments in applied
sociolinguistics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Giles, H., Mulac, A., Bradoc, J. J., & Johnson, P. (1987). Speech accommodation theory: The ﬁrst decade and
beyond. In M. L. McLaughlin (Ed.), Communication yearbook (Vol. 10, pp. 13–48). Beverley Hills,
CA: Sage.
Giles, H., & Powesland, P. F. (1975/1997). Accommodation theory. In N. Coupland & A. Jaworski (Eds.),
Sociolinguistics: A reader (pp. 232–239). Basingstoke, UK: Macmillan.
Grice, H. P. (1975). Logic and conversation. In P. Cole & J. L. Morgan (Eds.), Syntax and semantics (Vol. 3,
pp. 41–58). Speech Acts. New York, NY: Academic Press.
Henne, H., & Rehbock, H. (2001). Einführung in die Gesprächsanalyse. Berlin: de Gruyter.
Jungbluth, K. (2007). Doing identities in regional, national and global contexts. In K. Jungbluth &
C. Meierkord (Eds.), Identities in migration contexts (pp. 75–98). Tübingen: Narr.
Koerfer, A., & Zeck, J. (1983). Themen- und personenorientierte Interaktion in der Hochschule am Beispiel
der Einleitungsphase einer Seminardiskussion. In K. Ehlich & J. Rehbein (Eds.), Kommunikation in
Schule und Hochschule: Linguistische und ethnomethodologische Analysen (pp. 411–472). Tübingen:
Narr.
Le Page, R. B., & Tabouret-Keller, A. (1985). Acts of identity: Creole-based approaches to language and
ethnicity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Sacks, H., Schegloff, E. A., & Jefferson, G. (1974). A simplest systematics of the organization of turn-taking
in conversation. Language, 50(4), 696–735.
Scharioth, C. (2008). Selbstpräsentation und Anpassung – Sprachliche Interaktion in deutschen und
französischen Vorstellungsrunden. Unpublished master’s thesis. Europa-Universität Viadrina Frankfurt.
Wodak, R. (1987). Kommunikation in Institutionen. In U. Ammon, N. Dittmar & K. J. Mattheier (Eds.),
Soziolinguistik. Ein internationales Handbuch zur Wissenschaft von Sprache und Gesellschaft (Vol. 1,
pp. 799–819). Berlin: de Gruyter.
Self-presentation and adaptation in institutional discourse 389
This page intentionally left blank
AUTHOR INDEX
Adamzik, K., 380
Adolphs, S., 230
Afrashi, A., 250
Aguilar, M., 161
Aijmer, K., 223
Aikhenvald, A. Y., 230
Alessi, G., 162
Allison, D., 97–98
American Psychiatric Association, 116
Ammon, G., 355–356, 364, 372
Amouzadeh, M., 9, 247, 250–251, 259
Andersen, K. G., 157
Andersen, N. M., 157, 237
Andersen, T., 237
Anderson, K., 97
André-Larochebouvy, D., 286
Artiga León, M. R., 160
Assouline, D., 37
Athanasiadou, A., 5, 19
Auer, P., 319–320
Ayometzi, C. C., 387
Bamberg, M., 5, 74–75
Bardovi-Harlig, K., 274
Bassler, H., 315
Bauer, L., 17
Bauer, W., 17
Baumann, K., 355
Baumgarten, N., 8, 142, 147, 157, 242
Bazzanella, C., 37
Béal, C., 198, 200, 224
Becker-Mrotzek, M., 380
Bednarek, M., 5
Beebe, L. M., 380, 387
Bell, A., 159
Bendel, S., 380
Benveniste, É., 3–5, 139, 157, 232–233
Benwell, B., 161, 186
Bernhardt, S. A., 355
Besnier, N., 5
Bextermöller, M., 355–356, 371–372
beyondblue: the national depression
initiative, 115
Biber, D., 161, 183, 193, 231
Bickel, B., 319
Blakemore, D., 150
Bloor, M., 296
Bloor, T., 296
Bolden, G. B., 150–151
Bolinger, D., 17, 29
Bolten, J., 355–356
Bondi, M., 105, 160
Borthen, K., 37
Bosk, C., 295
Boye, K., 230, 232–233
Bradoc, J. J., 380
Braunmüller, K., 69, 74
Breitkopf, A., 297–298, 307, 309, 313–314
Breitkopf-Siepmann, A., 9, 300
Brewer, M., 35
Brinton, L., 193
Brown, P., 275, 296, 324
Brown, R., 326
Buchholtz, M., 320, 329
Bühler, K., 4, 72
Bull, P., 37
Bunton, D., 97
Busch-Lauer, I.-A., 97
Byrnes, H., 356
Caldwell, D., 120, 134
Canakis, C., 5
Carretero, M., 230
Carter-Thomas, S., 161–162
Caudery, T., 147
Chafe, W., 199
Christensen, T. K., 237
Clark, H., 71
Clarke, D. M., 121
Clyne, M., 296–297, 356
Coates, J., 196, 231, 253
Cogo, A., 144–145, 157
Compton, W. C., 116
Conrad, S., 183, 193, 231
Cornillie, B., 5
Coupland, J., 380
Coupland, N., 380
Crismore, A., 158
Crystal, D., 247
Cumming, S., 199–200, 224
Cysouw, M., 35, 323–324, 326
D’Arcy, A., 17
Dahl, S., 271
Dahl, T., 98, 103
Daniel, M., 319, 320–322
Dasher, R. B., 70
Davidson, B., 34, 39, 61, 62
Davies, C. E., 160
Davis, B., 5
De Fina, A., 37
Dehé, N., 271
Deppermann, A., 5–6, 74–75, 380
Depression Perception.com, 115
Dewey, M., 141, 145, 157
Diewald, G., 7, 72–73
Ditlevsen, M. G., 355
Dixon, R., 22
Doherty, M., 356
Doro-Mégy, F., 194
Downing, A., 231
Du Bois, I., 9, 320, 330
Du Bois, J. W., 199–200, 224, 231, 241
Dubois, B. L., 161
Duranti, A., 34, 38, 47, 61
Duszak, A., 329
Dyer, J., 161
Eckert, P., 141, 159
Edmondson, W. J., 144, 151, 239
Eggins, S., 358
Ehlich, K., 360, 380
Englebretson, R., 2, 5
Farnsworth, R., 297, 342
Farshidvard, K., 247
Fetzer, A., 37
Filimonova, E., 319, 321
Fine, J., 115
Finegan, E., 183, 193, 231
Firth, A., 141, 157
Fischer, K., 152
Fitzmaurice, S., 230
Fløttum, K., 103, 340, 357
Flowerdew, J., 97
Fonseca-Greber, B., 359, 372
Fortanet, I., 105, 160
Foucault, M., 307
392 Author Index
Frader, J., 295
Gambier, Y., 355–356, 371–373
Gardner, W., 35
Garside, R., 99
Gazdar, K., 355–356, 373
Giles, H., 380–381, 387
Gilman, A., 326
Giltrow, J., 105
Givón, T., 262
Goffman, E., 275
Gohr, M., 356–357
Gortner, E.-M., 115
Graumann, C. F., 33
Greenbaum, S., 28
Grevisse, M., 363
Grice, H. P., 387
Grimm, J., 73
Gumperz, J. J., 198
Hacohen, G., 34, 40
Haddington, P., 233
Hall, K., 157, 320
Halliday, M. A. K., 117, 120–121, 123–124,
133, 140, 146, 205, 248
Hanks, W., 319–320
Hansen, E., 237–238
Hansen, M.-J. M., 195, 237–238, 273
Harder, P., 237
Harré, R., 5, 35–36, 61, 321, 323
Harres, A., 295
Hartford, B. S., 274
Hartung, W., 71
Harwood, N., 98
Hasan, R., 117, 123–124
Hassinen, T., 358
Heine, B., 272
Helbig, A., 302
Helbig, G., 302
Helmbrecht, J., 35
Heltoft, L., 237–238
Henne, H., 71, 380
Hirsh, D., 123
Hodges, A., 329–330
Hoffmann, L., 302
Holmes, J., 231, 235
Holton, D., 37–38
Horvath, B., 195, 273
House, J., 8, 139, 141–142, 144, 146–148,
150, 152, 157, 159, 230, 242,
247–249, 259
Howe, S., 323
Hunston, S., 98
Hutchby, I., 329
Hyland, K., 98–99, 105, 158, 163, 168,
229, 258, 262
Ito, R., 17, 28
Iwasaki, S., 3
Jaffe, A., 5
Jakobson, R., 4, 71–72
Jazayeri, M. A., 247
Jefferson, G., 121, 199, 224
Jefford, M., 121
Jenkins, J., 157
Jensen, E. S., 237
Johansson, S., 183, 193, 231
Johnson, A., 150
Johnson, P., 380
Johnstone, B., 2, 166, 186–187
Jungbluth, K., 387
Kallmeyer, W., 33
Kaltenböck, G., 271
Kalverkämper H., 355
Author Index 393
Kanoksilapatham, B., 99
Kapellidi, Ch., 37, 39–40, 62
Kärkkäinen, E., 206, 216, 229–231,
233, 242
Karlsson, S., 9, 273, 274
Kasper, G., 194, 230
Kavalova, Y., 271
Keisanen, T., 233
Keller-Cohen, D., 161
Kennedy, C., 24, 28, 29
Kerbrat-Orecchioni, C., 200
Kianfar, J., 247
Kinn, T., 103
Kirchhoff, K. R., 355–356, 373
Kitzinger, C., 35
Knoblauch, J., 355–356, 364, 372
Koch, P., 373
Koerfer, A., 380
Kölbl, C., 77
Koller, W., 264
Koran, J. J., 160
Kotthoff, H., 356
Koutsantoni, D., 98
Kranich, S., 356, 370, 372, 374
Krause, M., 302
Kresić, M., 7, 68
Kreutz, H., 295
Kronning, H., 230
Kûdo, H., 250
Kunkel-Razum, K., 360, 363
Kuo, C-H., 37
Küppers, A., 10, 374
Kuroda, S.-Y., 3
Kvale, S., 236
Labov, W., 329
Lakoff, G., 295
Lakoff, R., 295
Langacker, R. W., 2, 5, 7, 69–71, 92
Le Page, R. B., 380
Lévy-Tödter, M., 142, 148, 150
Leech, G., 183, 193, 231
Leoudi, K., 39
Lerner, G. H., 35, 50
Levinson, S. C., 196
Liao, S., 148
Lindeberg, A.-C., 105
Lipovsky, C., 198
Lopez, A. D., 115
Lorés Sanz, R., 98
Lorés, R., 97–98
Lucius-Hoene, G., 5–6, 74–75
Lyons, J., 229, 232, 243, 250, 263
Macaulay, R., 17
Macken-Horarik, M., 121
Mackridge, P., 37–38
Maclean, J., 97
Malone, M. J., 67, 75
Mao, L. R., 37
Margutti, P., 37–38
Markkanen, R., 5, 298
Marshall, R. J., 121
Martı́n Martı́n, P., 98
Martin, J. R., 117–121, 132, 146, 231
Master, P., 103
Matthews, J. P., 121
Matthiessen, C. M. I. M., 359–360, 363
Mauranen, A., 158–161
Maynard, S. K., 3
McConnell-Ginet, S., 141
McGivern, R. F., 98
McIlvenny, P., 320, 329
McKenzie, D. P., 121
McNally, L., 24, 28–29
Meierkord, C., 157
394 Author Index
Mileshkin, L., 121
Morita, N., 162
Mortensen, J., 8, 229–230, 234–235,
242–243
Müller, S., 194–195
Mühlhäusler P., 5, 35–36, 61, 321, 323
Mui, L. P., 194
Mulac, A., 5, 272–273, 380
Mullan, K., 8–9, 193–196, 200, 203–206
Müller, S., 194–195
Münzberg, F., 360, 363
Murray, C. J. L., 115
Najaﬁ, A., 247
Namsaraev, V., 295, 299
National Health Service, 115
National Institute of Mental Health, 115
Nevalainen, T., 17, 28
Nichols, J., 5, 319
Niemelä, M., 233
Nikula, T., 231
Nilep, C.
Nølke, H., 231
Nuyts, J., 230, 233
Ochs, E., 159, 242
Orasan, C., 103
Östman, J.-O., 146
Özc
-etin, D., 355, 357, 359
Painter, C., 363
Palmer, F. R., 230, 232, 256
Palmer, J. C., 105
Paolino, D., 199–200, 224
Paradis, C., 24, 28
Patel, Vikram
Pavlidou, Th.-S., 6, 35, 37, 40–41, 62, 320
Pellat, J.-C., 360
Pennebaker, J. W., 115
Perkins, M. R., 253
Petersen, M., 147
Philippaki-Warburton, I., 37–38
Pho, P. D., 7, 97, 99
Pölzl, U., 144
Pomerantz, A., 210
Poppi, F., 105
Posteguillo, S., 98, 105
Povolná, R., 271
Powesland, P. F., 380, 387
Precht, K., 231
Preisler, B., 230, 235
Prince, E. F., 295
Promsin, P., 105
Pyykkö, R., 37
Quirk, R., 28
Räisäanen, C., 161
Rathmayr, R., 316
Rauniomaa, M., 233
Raymond, G., 150
Redeker, G., 151, 206
Rehbein, J., 380
Rehbock, H., 71, 380
Reilly, J., 98
Rendle-Short, J., 160–161
Rentel, N., 10
Richards, K., 121
Riegel, M., 360
Rioul, R., 360
Rissanen, M., 17, 28
Roberts, C., 23
Rose, D., 117, 119, 121
Rose, K. R., 194
Rowley-Jolivet, E., 161–162
Rude, S., 115
Author Index 395
Sacks, H., 121
Salager-Meyer, F., 111
Samraj, B., 98
Samson, C., 355–356
Santos, M. B. D., 97, 99, 110
Sarangi, S.
Scharioth, C., 10, 381, 383, 386
Schegloff, E. A., 121, 202
Scheibman, J., 5, 33, 36
Schieffelin, B., 5–6
Schiffrin, D., 146, 201
Schlierer, H.-J., 355, 357, 359, 373
Schneider, S., 271
Schourup, L., 202
Schreiber, H., 302
Schröder, H., 5, 298, 302
Schubiger, M., 235
Schuetze-Coburn, S., 199–200, 224
Scott, M., 100
Seebold, E., 73
Seidlhofer, B., 141, 144
Shahnaseri, S., 9, 247
Shaw, P., 147
Siewierska, A., 35
Sinclair, J., 158
Skarzynska, K., 37
Smith, C., 140
Smith, G. C., 121
Smith, N., 99
Sommerfeld, K.-E., 302
Spielmann, D., 147–148
Starke, G., 302
Stein, D., 5, 33, 362
Steiner, E., 362
Stenström, A.-B., 146
Stewart, M., 34–35, 37–38, 39, 62
Stokoe, E. H., 161, 186
Stotesbury, H., 98
Suomela-Salmi, E., 355–356, 371–373
Svartvik, J., 28
Swales, J. M., 98–99, 160–161
Tabouret-Keller, A., 186
Tagliamonte, S., 17, 23, 28
Tateyama, Y., 194
Tavangar, M., 9, 247, 250–251
Tay, H.-M., 194
Tebble, H., 7, 115, 121, 123–124
Teich, E., 362
Temmerman, M., 37
Thananart, O. O., 194
Therkelsen, R., 231
Thomas, J., 194
Thompson, G., 98
Thompson, P., 105
Thompson, S., 161
Thomson, J., 121
Tracy, R., 325
Traugott, E. C., 3, 5, 69–70, 272
Travis, C. E., 272, 277
Trumpp, E. C., 297
Tse, P., 98
Tyler, A. E., 160
Tzartzanos, A., 37–38
Urmson, J. O., 271
Van de Kopple, W., 295
Varttala, T., 111
Vassileva, I., 99, 162, 177
Ventola, E., 161, 166, 186
Verstraete, J.-C., 105
Vološinov, V. N., 6
Waksler, R., 6, 25
Wales, K., 35
396 Author Index
Walker, G., 282
Wardaugh, R., 201
Waugh, L. R., 359, 372
Weinrich, H., 307
Wenger, E., 141
Wenner, M., 358
White, P. P. R., 105, 117–121, 132, 231
Widdowson, H., 141
Wierzbicka, A., 200, 202, 205
Wise, J., 200
Wodak, R., 380
Wong, J., 148
Woofﬁtt, R., 329
World Health Organisation, 115
Wortham, S.
Wright, S., 5, 33
Yamaguchi, M., 320, 330
Yang, R., 98
Ye, Y., 98
Youmans, M., 230
Zalcberg, J., 121
Zamora, A., 98
Zeck, J., 380
Zwicky, A., 19, 31
Author Index 397
This page intentionally left blank
SUBJECT INDEX
academic advising, 148
academic discourse, 7, 9–10, 160, 162–164,
297, 307, 316, 326, 339–343, 345–347,
349–351, 353
academic texts, 9, 296, 315–316, 339, 343,
353
academic writing, 1, 9, 97, 105, 111, 296, 321,
324, 326, 353
accommodation, 10, 145, 157, 379–380, 387
accounts, 43, 53, 55, 60–61, 117, 280, 360,
364, 369
adaptation, 10, 260, 379–381, 383–388
addressee, 3, 30, 35–39, 46, 49–50, 54, 56, 61,
140, 146, 150–151, 207, 214, 319–320,
324–326
adjectives, 2, 26, 101, 107–108, 160, 235,
250–251, 262, 297, 344–345, 348
adolescents, 255
affect, 2, 5–7, 21–22, 25, 39, 115, 117–119,
121–122, 126–131, 163, 195–196
alignment, 52, 61, 163, 176, 282, 320,
323–325, 334
‘altså’, 237, 241
American English, 1, 6, 216, 242, 272, 277
announcements, 42, 45, 47–48, 60
aphoristic aftermaths, 58
appraisal, 2, 5–7, 116–122, 125, 129,
131–133, 231, 341–343
Appraisal Analysis, 6–7, 116–122, 129,
131–132
appreciation, 117, 119, 121–122, 129–132, 170
attitude, 4, 6, 8, 17, 21, 69–70, 108–110,
117–121, 130, 139–140, 163–164, 175,
205, 232–233, 239, 242, 250, 263, 272,
295, 342, 346, 352, 355–356, 373
audience positioning, 163, 167, 169, 174, 179,
181–185
Australian English, 2, 7–9, 133, 193–203, 205,
208, 213, 216–218, 220–224, 271–274,
279–280, 290
Australians, 198–200, 220, 281
author, 7–9, 35–36, 101–103, 110–111, 249,
296, 299–302, 304, 312, 321, 324,
339–340, 342–343, 345–347, 349–353,
356–360, 364, 366, 369, 371–374
author in the text, 340, 356–357
authorial stance, 7, 10, 97–99, 101, 103, 105,
107–111, 342, 356, 366, 372
boundedness, 23–24, 27, 29
British English, 168, 184–185, 198
business communication, 10, 355–357, 366,
368–369, 371, 373
certainty, 6, 9, 11, 28–30, 162, 164, 194, 222,
248, 250, 252, 254–260, 263–265, 280,
284, 345, 350–351, 353
chief executive ofﬁcer, 10, 356
Chinese, 37, 104, 145, 322
code switching, 6, 8
coherence, 73, 117, 144, 146–147, 183, 205,
275, 358
colloquial discourse, 6, 17, 30
comment clauses, 2, 9, 193–195, 199,
201–203, 205–208, 213–214, 216,
220–224, 271–272, 274–275, 277–280,
286–287, 289–291
communicative acts, 235, 387
communicative needs, 10, 339–341, 343
communicative preferences, 264, 356
community of practice, 141, 159
complement clauses, 98, 101, 108
concessive clauses, 343–344
conference presentations, 9, 161–162,
167–168, 177, 295, 297–316
conjunctions, 146
convergence, 265, 380, 382, 384,
386–388
conversation, 1, 7–8, 10, 26, 35, 38–42,
45–48, 58, 60–61, 71, 121, 151, 195–196,
198, 200–201, 213, 242, 271–276, 284,
286, 289, 325, 380
Conversation Analysis, 8, 10, 35, 42, 60, 121,
198, 275, 380
cultural ﬁlter, 249, 259, 261, 264–265
Danish, 2, 8, 229, 233–235, 237–240
deictic identity, 68–69, 74–76, 78, 84–89,
92–94
deictic ‘this’, 111
depression, 7, 115–116, 120–127, 130–132,
134
dialogic function, 231, 237
dialogic identity, 7, 67–69, 76, 78, 81, 84,
87–88, 90, 92–94
dialogic particles, 237–238
dialogic space, 8, 231, 235–239, 241–243
disagreements, 48, 56, 60
disalignment, 49, 52, 55–56, 61, 320
discourse identity, 67
discourse marker, 8, 143–145, 147, 152,
161–164, 168, 171, 185, 187, 194,
202–203, 206–207, 211, 213–214,
220–221, 223, 237, 272–273, 277,
280, 286
discourse participants, 165, 174
discourse pragmatics, 142
discourse roles, 7, 67
divergence, 39, 273, 380, 386–387
elegance, 356
engagement, 117, 119–122, 147, 162–169,
174–175, 184–185, 187, 342–343, 364
English, 1–2, 6–9, 30, 36–37, 62, 77–78,
80–81, 83–84, 91, 94, 117, 119–121,
132–133, 139–149, 151–153, 157–160,
162, 167–168, 170–173, 183–185,
193–203, 205, 207–208, 210–211,
213, 216–218, 220–224, 229, 233–235,
238–243, 247–265, 271–274, 277–280,
286, 289–291, 296–297, 299, 319–320,
322–328, 330, 336, 339–340, 355–356,
358, 362, 381–382, 385
English as a lingua franca, 139–140, 234
epistemic expressions, 8, 193, 203, 229–233,
235–243
epistemic modal auxiliaries, 252, 254–255
epistemic modality, 230, 232, 256, 295
epistemic stance marking, 8, 229–233,
235–239, 241–243
evaluation, 2, 5, 10, 98, 117, 122, 140, 147,
167, 233, 264, 340–342, 345, 347, 349,
355, 387
exclamations, 164, 343–344, 352
exclusive ‘we’, 36, 40, 73, 319, 322
exclusive pronouns, 373
expert, 8, 160–161, 167, 170, 173–174, 176,
179, 181, 184–186, 329
400 Subject Index
face, 37, 39–40, 71, 139, 147, 157, 161,
169–170, 194, 206–208, 214, 222,
237, 241, 275, 280, 288–290, 296,
301, 309, 314, 324–326, 336, 343,
347, 349
face-saving, 147, 161, 169, 194, 206, 208,
222, 280, 288
ﬁnality, 205, 207, 211–212, 214, 277,
280–281, 285–286, 288
ﬁrst person, 4, 7, 9–10, 33–43, 45, 47–48,
50–52, 56, 61, 72, 84, 97–98, 101, 233,
235, 271, 299, 309, 312, 315, 319–327,
329–337, 346, 349–350, 352, 356,
359–360, 364, 367–368, 370, 372
footing, 75
French, 8–10, 26, 77–78, 80–81, 83–84, 91,
140, 145, 193–205, 207–214, 216,
218–224, 271, 273–274, 277–280,
285–286, 289–291, 297, 339–340,
342–344, 346–348, 350, 352–353,
355–359, 362–374, 379, 381–386, 388
friends, 23, 41–42, 55, 61, 150, 329, 333
gambit, 144, 147
genre, 7, 9–11, 97–98, 123–124, 158–160,
163, 167–168, 170, 182–183, 185–187,
248–249, 252, 254, 263, 297, 300–301,
303, 310, 314–316, 321, 357, 374
German, 2, 7, 9–10, 26, 46, 67, 72–74, 76,
92, 94, 140, 142–146, 148–150, 167,
169–171, 235, 295–307, 309–316,
319, 322–328, 331–332, 334–337,
339–340, 342–344, 347–348,
350–353, 355–359, 362–374, 379,
381–386, 388
gradability, 23, 27
graduation, 117, 119, 121–122, 128, 130,
342–343
Greek, 1, 6, 33–35, 37–38, 40–42, 57, 60, 62
grounding, 75
hearer, 37, 69, 71–74, 76, 78, 92, 140, 146,
159, 161, 163, 165, 174–177, 179–180,
184–185, 187, 223, 238, 272
hearer pronouns, 165, 174, 176–177, 184
hedge, 39, 145, 175, 201, 203, 258, 295–296,
304, 359
hedging, 2, 5, 9, 98, 106, 120, 160, 170, 174,
184, 230, 263–264, 295–311, 313–316,
345, 347–349, 352–353
Hungarian, 167, 187
‘I believe’, 8, 193, 271, 299, 302, 304
identity, 7, 34, 39, 67–69, 72–76, 78, 81,
84–94, 97, 104, 111, 157–161,
163–168, 172–173, 182, 184–187,
329–330, 336–337, 357–358, 371–372,
387
identity construction, 68, 159–161, 163–168,
185, 329
identity predications, 68–69, 78, 81, 84–86,
88–89, 92–94
idiosyncrasy, 185
‘I ﬁnd’, 8, 193, 271
‘I guess’, 203, 216–218, 272
immigrant discourse, 7
inclusive pronouns, 184, 373
inclusive ‘we’, 73, 325, 370
Indian English, 145, 168, 173, 184, 198
inner circle, 158, 172, 183, 185
institutional discourse, 142, 379, 381, 383,
385, 387–388
intelligibility, 158
intensiﬁcation, 17–31, 118
intensiﬁers, 2, 6, 17–20, 22–23, 25–30, 119,
161, 299
Subject Index 401
interaction, 1, 6–8, 10, 30, 40–42, 60–61,
68–69, 92, 108, 140–142, 144, 146, 148,
151, 157–163, 165–166, 170, 177–180,
182, 184–185, 194, 198–200, 202, 206,
220–224, 229, 233, 237, 239, 242–243,
250, 272, 275–276, 287, 301–302,
313–315, 330, 340, 342, 358, 387
interactional metadiscourse, 163
Interactional Sociolinguistics, 8, 198–199,
275–277
intersubjectivity, 8, 140, 229–231, 233, 235,
237, 239, 241–243
interview, 7, 77, 121, 123–125, 127–130, 145,
148, 198, 238–239, 241, 320, 330,
334–335
intonation, 6, 9, 20, 23, 153, 188, 195,
197–199, 208–213, 220–221, 224, 235,
250, 272, 275–277, 280–282, 284–286,
289, 291, 331
intonation unit, 9, 197–199, 210, 224, 272,
275–277, 280–282, 285, 291
Irish English, 168, 184–185
‘I reckon’, 23, 216–218
Italian, 1, 10, 34, 37–38, 94, 162–163, 255,
339–340, 342–348, 350, 352–353
‘I think’, 8, 193, 198, 236, 271, 302, 304–308,
315
‘jag tror’, 9, 271, 273–274, 278–279,
287, 291
‘jag tycker’, 9, 271, 273–274, 278–279,
287–289, 291
‘jeg tror’, 236–237, 241
‘je pense’, 9, 193, 195, 198, 199, 202–204,
206–207, 210, 213–216, 258
‘jo’, 238–239, 288–289
judgement, 7, 117–119, 121–122, 126–132
justiﬁcatory support, 230–233, 236–238, 241
Korean, 145
L2 English, 8, 148, 157, 159–160, 162, 167,
170
L2 French, 8
language of depression, 116, 120, 123–124,
132, 134
let-it-pass, 141
letters to shareholders, 10, 355, 357–359, 363,
365–374
lexical diversity, 184–185
listener, 84–85, 87–91, 119, 150–151, 199,
276
management talk, 144
metadiscourse, 2, 8, 157, 159–164, 167–170,
173–174, 182–187, 341–342
modal adjectives, 2, 250–251
modal adverbs, 6, 250–251, 296, 300
modal auxiliaries, 101, 105, 248, 251–265
modal lexical verbs, 250–251, 262
modal particles, 237, 299
modal verbs, 6, 36, 101, 105–106, 130, 235,
251–252, 299–300, 306, 310, 344,
347–348
modal words, 295, 299–300, 302, 306,
309–316
modality, 4, 6, 9, 119, 230–232, 247, 249–253,
255–257, 259, 261–264, 295
monologic, 158–159, 166, 170, 177, 184–185
move, 7, 98–111, 120, 143–144, 148,
150–151, 209, 233, 345, 347, 350, 363
narrative, 38, 42, 46–48, 54, 57–58, 60, 68,
74–76, 334
native speaker, 1, 7, 120–121, 141–142, 168,
171, 193–196, 198–199, 205, 214, 216,
218, 221–223, 273, 373, 381
402 Subject Index
negation, 120, 122, 164, 181, 250, 255, 343–
345
negative targets, 21
negotiation, 8, 37, 39, 157, 231, 236, 242
non-native speaker, 7, 141, 193–194, 196,
198–199, 218, 223
noun phrase targets, 20
objectiﬁcation, 70, 74, 76, 92, 94, 345, 349, 352
objectivity, 11, 67, 69–70, 233, 261, 263, 342
opinion, 120, 139, 147, 164, 177, 180,
193–195, 198, 200–201, 203–208,
212–214, 216, 220–223, 237, 271, 280–
282, 284–286, 289, 299, 304, 306–307,
310, 340, 355, 372–373
orientation towards self, 164, 373
passive, 97, 101, 103–105, 111, 258–259,
262–263, 265, 343–344, 347–351, 353,
362
Persian, 1, 9, 247–265
person deixis, 7, 67–68, 71, 92
personal pronouns, 6, 34, 72, 76, 92, 94, 97,
140, 285, 313, 315, 345–346, 355–360,
363–367, 371, 373–374
planning, 43–45, 48, 147, 149–150, 152, 166,
184, 205, 207, 210, 214, 272, 277,
280–281, 358
plural, 7, 9–10, 34–38, 40–43, 45, 47–48,
50–52, 56, 61, 72–73, 84, 86, 299,
309–310, 312, 319–337, 346, 349–350,
352, 359–360, 364, 368, 370, 372, 374
point of view, 1, 5, 19, 30, 33, 35, 38, 40, 140,
150, 152, 232, 237–238, 241, 286
Polish, 167–168
politeness, 39, 73, 140, 145, 169, 174, 184,
230, 295–296, 302, 324–325, 327, 336,
346, 349–350
positioning, 2, 5–6, 8–9, 25, 33–35, 61, 67,
74–75, 88, 92, 140, 157–159, 163, 167,
169, 174, 177–179, 181–185, 231, 241,
330, 342, 353
possessive pronoun, 311–312, 352
pragmatic limits, 17–18, 25, 27, 30
presence of the author, 339, 342, 356
presenter, 8, 162, 170, 175–176, 179, 181, 186
probability, 9, 252, 254, 264, 342, 348, 351
problem solving, 261
process types, 359–363, 365–372, 374
proﬁciency, 157, 185, 195, 221
pronouns, 2, 6–7, 9–10, 34–36, 38–41, 61–62,
72, 74, 76, 87, 90, 92, 94, 97–98, 101,
140, 161–162, 164–165, 174–177, 180,
184, 210, 235, 285, 310, 312–313, 315,
319–324, 326, 329–330, 332, 334, 336,
345–346, 349, 355–360, 363–374
questions, 2, 9, 41–42, 47–48, 50–52, 56–57,
60, 81, 86, 94, 100, 145, 148, 150,
161–162, 166, 176, 182, 194, 196–197,
222, 274, 300, 314, 320, 334, 343–344,
346, 352, 370
re-interpretation, 8, 145, 152
reader, 10, 105, 107, 111, 203, 225, 249, 292,
296, 325–326, 340, 342, 345–346, 352,
356–361, 369–370, 372
register, 9, 11, 37, 158, 163, 167, 170–171,
183, 185–186, 249, 358
relatives, 41–42, 61, 124, 131, 332, 334
repetition, 2, 6, 90, 145, 183, 209
research articles, 7, 9–10, 98–99, 161,
296–298, 300–310, 313–315, 321, 326,
339–341, 343–344, 346–347, 351–353
research interview, 123–124
rhetorical conventions, 169, 352
Subject Index 403
rhetorical moves, 10, 99, 340–341, 343
rhetorical questions, 50, 57, 162, 182
Russian, 1, 9, 37, 295, 297–305, 307–316,
322, 329
second person, 37–39, 50–52, 56, 72–74, 86,
92, 147, 310, 313, 324–326, 370
self-expression, 1, 4–5, 10, 157, 159–162, 167,
185–187, 229, 243
self-orientedness, 8, 152
self-presentation, 10, 379–381, 383–388
self-reference, 7, 35–37, 40–41, 61, 101–103,
146, 174, 177–178, 184, 304, 306–307,
310, 324
semantic limits, 18, 23–24, 28
side sequence, 205, 280, 284–285
singular, 10, 33, 36–37, 40–41, 52, 72–73,
159, 299, 309, 315, 320, 322–328, 336–
337, 346, 359–360, 364, 367–368, 372
‘so’, 385
Spanish, 34–35, 37–40, 62, 140, 142, 167,
171–172, 340
speaker, 1–4, 6, 8–11, 17–30, 33–41, 44–53,
55–56, 59–61, 69–74, 76, 78–81, 84–90,
92–94, 118–120, 139–142, 145–148,
150–152, 157–165, 167–171, 173–187,
193–196, 198–207, 209, 212–214, 216,
218, 222–223, 230, 232–235, 237–239,
242–243, 250, 272, 276–277, 279–282,
284, 286–287, 289–290, 295, 306–307,
309–314, 319–326, 328, 330, 335, 342,
355–357, 364, 366, 369, 371–373, 380,
383–387
speaker attitude, 8, 70, 232–233, 242
speaker identity, 158–159, 163, 167,
184–187
speaker persona, 158, 160, 163, 183
speaker positioning, 163, 174
speaking subject, 3–4, 11, 33–34, 41, 163,
170, 186
Speech Accommodation Theory, 10
speech acts, 75, 78, 81–82, 84, 86, 91, 93–94,
174, 177, 179–182, 184–185, 322, 347
spoken academic discourse, 160
stance, 2, 5–8, 10, 33, 35, 39, 56, 60, 97–99,
101, 103, 105, 107–111, 140, 152,
160–164, 166–169, 174–175, 184–185,
187, 203–204, 206, 216, 229–233, 235–
243, 250, 271, 277, 281–282, 289, 323,
330, 342, 355–356, 359, 366
stance adjectives, 101, 107
stance taking, 216, 231, 233, 241–242
stance triangle, 231
student presentation, 162, 167–168
student project group meetings, 8, 229, 234
style, 18–19, 25, 31, 97, 117, 141, 157, 159,
182, 195, 231, 283, 289, 337, 352, 356,
371, 373, 380
subject pronoun, 33–35, 38–45, 47–50, 52–56,
59–61, 207, 213, 221, 223, 286, 346
subjectiﬁcation, 69–70, 74, 76, 92, 272–273,
350
subjective modality, 9, 247, 249–251, 253,
255, 257, 259, 261, 263
subjectivisation, 299
subjectivity, 1–11, 17–25, 30, 33–37, 39, 41,
43, 45, 47, 49, 51, 53, 55, 57, 59–61,
67–71, 73, 75, 77, 79, 81, 83, 85, 87,
89, 91, 93, 97, 115–117, 119, 121, 123,
125, 127, 129, 131, 133, 139–145, 147,
149–152, 157, 160, 173, 186, 193–194,
204, 221, 229–233, 235, 237, 239, 241–
243, 247, 250, 256, 262–263, 271, 273,
275, 277, 279, 281, 283–285, 287, 289,
291, 295, 319–320, 323, 329–330,
339–343, 345–347, 349–352, 355, 379
404 Subject Index
‘super’, 6, 17–22, 25, 27–30, 130, 169, 331
superlatives, 22
Swedish, 1, 9, 271, 273–274, 277–280, 282,
287–291
Systemic Functional Grammar, 248, 358
Systemic Functional Linguistics, 116, 140
television news, 18
tentative verb, 299, 345, 348
tertium comparationis, 341
textual norms, 10, 339, 353
third person, 10, 38–39, 74, 84–85, 87, 90,
323, 331–332, 351, 359–360, 364,
368, 372
‘totally’, 6, 17–22, 25, 27–30, 130,
169, 331
transfer, 145, 158, 163, 169, 220, 249,
290
translations, 253–254, 256–261, 265, 298,
356, 362
turn, 18, 35, 41, 43–49, 51–56, 59–61, 69, 73,
76, 78–93, 118, 147–148, 151–152, 157,
159, 161, 169–170, 195, 199, 203, 205–
207, 209–212, 214, 243, 272, 275–277,
280–282, 285–286, 288–290, 332, 334,
345, 380
turn completion, 205, 207, 211–212, 214, 277,
280–282, 285–286, 288
‘uber’, 6, 17–19, 21–22, 25–26, 30
uncertainty, 164, 204, 212, 220, 243, 250, 280,
282, 284, 286–288, 300, 345, 349–350
university, 2, 10, 42, 62, 101, 111, 116,
134, 142, 146, 148–149, 152, 160–161,
167–168, 195, 199, 221, 234, 255, 274,
277, 310–311, 379–380, 385, 387
university seminars, 10, 379–380, 387
verb phrase targets, 20
verba dicendi, 300, 304, 307, 310
verba sentiendi, 300
voice, 97, 100–101, 103–104, 109, 111, 117,
120, 153, 186, 334, 342–343, 347, 349–
351, 353
‘we’, 7, 9–10, 33–38, 40–41, 45, 50, 60,
72–73, 240, 307, 319–332, 334–337,
350, 356, 359–360, 364, 368–372, 374
‘wir’, 336
writer, 1–2, 97–98, 100–101, 103, 105, 110,
163, 254–255, 258, 260, 342, 349, 355–
357, 364, 366–367, 371–374
‘yeah’, 89
‘you know’, 77, 80, 83, 91, 126–132,
145–148, 168, 173, 176-177, 182, 187,
209–210, 212, 310, 312, 331–333
zero modal, 256, 260, 263
zero subject languages, 34–35, 38, 40
Subject Index 405
