	 Chapter 1.  Introduction	 
	 (9)	
Nominal root compounds are typically analyzed as adjunction structures (cf. e.g.
Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu 2002; Roeper & Snyder 2005) and in so far seem to fit
with the description of label-less concatenates provided here. The eminent ques-
tion however is, how the (First-!)Merger of two nominal heads can lead to a labeled
SO that is available for further computation. Chapter 2 discusses several approach-
es to the derivation of these structures and argues that none provide an answer
compatible with the conceptions of Merge and the requirements imposed by the
SMT. An alternative analysis that is not only in line with the SMT, but also allows
for a principled distinction between productive compositional recursive com-
pounds and their unproductive, non-compositional and non-recursive counter-
parts, is presented. The distinction between compositional compounds and their
non-compositional counterparts, it turns out, is not based on inter-language varia-
tion of the type advocated for e.g. in Delfitto, Fábregas & Meloni (2008) but rather
on inter-language variation that is fine-tuned by cyclic derivation and does not
need to make use of additional stipulative assumptions or unmotivated features.
Another instance where First-Merge creates a point of symmetry that needs to
be dissolved is in incorporated nominal gerunds. Just as in (9) Merge here com-
bines two heads, however, these heads rather than being adjuncts presumably
stand in a complement relation where the verbal head selects the nominal head:
	 (10)	
What is not clear though is how this can be accounted for under the φ-feature
driven account to Merge and labeling discussed above, nor why incorporation is
forced in these structures and why simple feature-Matching and Valuation is
not enough. In particular the lack of an effect on interpretation between the
incorporated (11b) and the non-incorporated structure (11a) and the clear effect
N N
?
cup
(coffee-cup)
coffee
N N
?
cut
(grass-cutting/s)
grass
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
on interpretation between pluralized (11c/d) and non-pluralized versions of nom-
inal gerunds (11a/b) is puzzling in this context:
	 (11)	 a.	 the cutting of the grass
		 b.	 the grass-cutting
		 c.	 the grass-cuttings
		 d.	 the cuttings of the grass
In Chapter 3 these structures are analyzed in minute detail and it is shown that
current approaches to gerunds and their incorporated versions (cf. e.g. Barrie
2006; Iordăchioaia & Soare 2008; Alexidaou; Iordăchioaia & Soare 2010) can
neither accurately capture the observed phenomena above, nor do they comply
with the account on Merge developed here. Again, an alternative analysis that
does not rely on additional mechanisms but strictly adheres to the SMT, which
guides a cyclic approach to derivation that is motivated by independent princi-
ples, is presented.
Chapter 4 looks at one more instance of Merge that produces a symmetric out-
come: small clauses (SCs). Following the analysis in Moro (2000; 2007) the asym-
metry here does not result from the Merger of two heads but two phrases instead:
	 (12)	
In principle, this structure is reminiscent of the adjunction structures resulting
from the Merger of two phrases as discussed above. However, as den Dikken
(2006) argues, SCs are predication structures rather than modification structures.
This, of course, begs the question how this is accommodated under the SMT based
approach described here. The analysis provided in Chapter 4, which is in part
based on the approach outlined in Bauke & Roeper (2012), does not only provide
an answer to the question of how the label of the SC can be determined but it also
shows in which way a Phase-based approach to the derivation of SCs allows for
precise predictions on relevant Phase-boundaries that indicate designated posi-
tions that the SC constituents can be moved to.
So, the investigation of the structures in Chapters 2–4 illustrates that the ad-
junction structures in (9), the complementation structures in (10)–(11) and the
predication structures in (12) can be uniformly accounted for under a Phase-based
approach to the SMT that does not rely on the stipulation of additional ad hoc
DP DP
?
Jack
(they made sc [Jack the president])
the president
	 Chapter 1.  Introduction	 
features or mechanisms. In fact, only independently motivated assumptions that
follow naturally from interface requirements can not only provide the basis for an
analysis of the structures discussed here, but they also have interesting implica-
tions for the assessment and development of minimalist theory. These implica-
tions are discussed in Chapter 5 and include the following points.
First, the question whether Phase-based computations impose restrictions on
lexicon-syntax interaction (cf. e.g. Boeckx 2008a) or on syntax-interface interac-
tions emerges (cf. also Gallego 2008: 41). The analysis in this study certainly points
into the latter direction, but without negating the relevance of the former and the
answer to the question includes the discussion of what constitutes a Phase. While
it is pretty clear what constitutes a Phase in the clausal domain (cf. e.g. Chomsky
2000; 2001; 2004; 2005; 2008), i.e. φ-feature checking, as well as how this follows
from SMT considerations and what counts as a relevant Phase-head in the clausal
domain, i.e. *v and C, it is far less obvious what closes off a Phase (cf. e.g. Chomsky
2000 vs 2001; Richards 2007; Grewendorf & Kremers 2009; Gallego 2010).
Additonally, neither the status of Phases at the subphrasal level (i.e. word-level)
(cf. Marantz 2001; 2007) and in the nominal domain (cf. among many others
Svenonius 2004; Bošković 2005; Hiraiwa 2005; Matushansky 2005; Müller & Heck
2008; Ott 2008; Samuels 2008; Richards 2012) is unanimously agreed upon in the
literature, nor is clear what the status of Non-Phase-heads is (cf. in particular
Chomsky 2008 vs. previous accounts) and whether Phases can be slided or ex-
tended (den Dikken 2007a;b; Gallego & Uriagereka 2007; Gallego 2010).
On the basis of the analysis in Chapters 2–4, it is argued that Phases play a
crucial role at word-level syntax and in the nominal domain and indeed are guided
by the same principles as in the phrasal domain. With respect to the question of
Phase-sliding/Phase-extension, which necessarily requires head-movement, it is
also discussed, whether head-movement is a purely phonological operation as
Chomsky (2000) argues or whether alternative accounts of head-movement either
as remnant movement (cf. e.g. Koopmann & Szabolcsi 2000; Nilsen 2003) or (even)
as a syntactic operation (Harley 2004; 2009; Donati 2006; Matushanksy 2006;
Cechetto & Donati 2010; Gallego 2010; Roberts 2010) are possible and how the
problems of tucking-in and conflation fare under these accounts. Again, the analy-
sis of the structures in the preceding chapters guides the discussion here.
chapter 2
Nominal root compounds*
2.1	 Nominal root compounds: A (crosslinguistic) overview
This chapter provides a new analysis of nominal root compounding. In stark con-
trast to previous accounts on nominal root compounding that are based on mac-
ro-parametric variation, the current account illustrates that an intra-language
distinction between different types of compounding is needed. Based on data
from German and many other languages, it is shown that seemingly unprincipled
language internal variation between different types of nominal root compound-
ing can be recast in clear cut terms without referring to a macro-parameter. Rath-
er a distinction between two types of nominal root compounding, which are both
exhibited in German, is introduced. This distinction rests on very specific syntac-
tic properties. In particular the presence vs. absence of a Phase-head that has the
capacity of introducing φ-features – and in particular number features – into the
derivation is what allows for a distinction between the two types of nominal root
compounds. Based on the independently motivated assumption that Merge
is driven by E(dge) F(eature)s (cf. Chomsky 2008) and on an incorporation analy-
sis along the lines of Roberts’ (2010), two types of nominal root compounds
with clearly discernible and radically different semantic and syntactic properties
are identified.
In nominal root compounding a crosslinguistic distinction is frequently made
between compounding in Romance languages on the one hand and in Germanic
languages on the other (cf. e.g. DiSciullo & Williams 1987; Snyder & Chen 1997;
Snyder 2001; Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu 2002; Mukai 2004; Grela, Snyder &
Hiramatsu 2005; Roeper & Snyder 2005; Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni 2008), where
Germanic is analyzed as the pattern in which root compounding is far more pro-
ductive than in Romance. Not only is Germanic more productive, additionally
compounding in these languages is recursive and compositional. Romance, on the
*	 The term ‘(nominal) root compound’ will occur frequently in this chapter. Right from the
start two qualifications are in order, to avoid future misunderstandings. The first is that this
chapter is only and exclusively concerned with root compounds. Hence, the analysis suggested
here is not meant for synthetic compounds (but cf. Chapter 3 for a possible extension). Second,
until further qualification in the last section of this chapter, I use the term root rather loosely, not
necessarily distinguishing it from the term stem.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
other hand, does not allow recursive compounds and existing nominal root com-
pounds tend to have a fixed lexicalized interpretation. The following examples il-
lustrate the phenomenon of productive compositional novel compound formation
for German and English:1
	 (1)	 English:	
lion senator, governor frenzy, filibuster candidate, debacle
speech, exile hypocrisy, crisis pundit, ...
		 German:	
Weltenfahrt, Präsidentenexperte, Ämterberatung, Gesichter-
parade, Väterzentrum, Ämtergang, ...
In Romance, on the other hand, novel compounds are hardly ever formed
productively and in the occasional instances this happens, these compounds are
the product of a deliberate act of coinage rather than of a process of productive
word-formation. Thus, when speakers of a Romance language form a novel endo-
centric nominal root compound the result requires an explanation of the meaning
of this compound, and the process resembles the invention of a new morpheme
(cf. Roeper & Snyder 2005: 159). So, existing compounds in these languages tend
to have a fixed interpretation that can quite often be alternatively expressed by
non-compound nouns. In English (and other Germanic languages) examples with
a lexicalized interpretation exist, but this lexicalization is hardly ever total, as can
be seen from the examples below:
	 (2)	 French:	 homme grenouille2	 plongeur
		 Spanish:	 hombre rana	 buceador(a)
		 Italian:	 uomo rana	 sommozzatore
1.	 All of the examples are taken from 2008 and 2009 editions of either the New York Times,
Time Magazine, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, Die Zeit or from news broadcasts during
the same time span in Nightly News or the Tagesschau, respectively. None of these compounds
were listed in the Merriam Webster Dictionary, the Concise Oxford Dictionary or the Duden at
that time.
2.	 One further difference between the compounds in Romance languages and the Germanic
compounds in (1) and (2) that is pointed out frequently (cf. e.g. Liceras et al. 2002) is that the
Germanic compounds comply to the right-hand head rule (RHR) of Williams (1981) or the
IS-A relation first expressed in Marchand (1969: 11) and formally stated in Allen (1978: 105).
However, as has been outlined in Chapter 1.2, it is not at all clear how a semantic subset analysis
(cf. Scalise 1986: 92–93) can contribute to the identification of a compound head. In fact, it
seems that the LF-interpretational facts captured in the IS-A relation are rather the effects of a
syntactic process than the other way round.
	 The RHR in turn, although it does not deny the role of meaning identity already argued for by
Marchand (1969), is not entirely semantically based. But still, it is not clear what this rule express-
es. First of all, it should be noted that this rule is postulated for English only and that the discussion
in Williams (1981) remains silent about why Romance shows the reverse pattern. This factor is
already sufficient to cast serious doubt on the overall validity of this rule. More importantly, given
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
		 English:	 frogman, i.e. combat diver,
				 man who sells frogs,
				 man resembling a frog,
				 man who knows an awful
				 lot about frogs, ...
The examples in (3) also illustrate the recursive character of nominal root com-
pounds in Germanic. In Romance there exist hardly any (nominal) compounds
that contain more than two elements; Roeper & Snyder (2005: 160) mention ga-
teau forêt-noir as a notable exception, which clearly is a lexicalized form:
	 (3)	 English:	
restaurant coffee cup, christmas tree cookie, peanut butter
sandwich, baby doll napkin, student film committee, kumbaya
moment strategy, bogeyman approach analysis, ...
		 German:	
Mäusefallentrick, Puppenhäuserproblem, Sonnenstrahlen-
schutz,Straßenverkehrsordnung,Studentenhäuserbüro,Sagen-
heldenmoment, Pferdesättelverkäufer, Kindertassenmotiv, ...
This, of course, does not mean that Romance languages lack the ability of recursive
compound formation. However, recursive and productive nominal root com-
pounds in these languages are stylistically marked and very restricted (cf. Bisetto
2010: 27–29) unless they are formed by a prepositional pattern (cf. Delfitto,
Fábregas & Melloni 2008: 25; Ralli 2008: 25–26).
One possible way of accounting for these differences is to draw a distinction
between lexical and syntactic processes of word-formation. The Romance pattern
then is one of lexical word-formation, while Germanic languages are character-
ized by syntactic word-formation processes (cf. e.g. Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu
2002; Roeper & Snyder 2005: 159–160). This is in line with the distinction tradi-
tionally made in generative grammar between regular and irregular grammatical
processes (cf. Chomsky 1970) where in particular derivational morphology – in
stark contrast to inflectional morphology and syntax – belongs to the idiosyn-
cratic and irregular processes.3 Following Borer (1984), it is then only natural to
the order-independence of Merge argued for in Chapter 1.2, in narrow syntax it should not make
any difference whether the head of the word is merged to the left or to the right. If the RHR is
merely a generalization on the results of PF-linearization (cf. e.g. Kayne 1994), it does not express
anything about the syntactic process of head-determination and thus is nothing but a descriptive
device for characterizing the result of narrow syntax and post-syntactic PF computations.
3.	 Incidentally, Giegerich (1999) argues that this distinction is also the place for drawing the
dividing line between lexicalist and non-lexicalist approaches. In more recent work, however,
Giegerich (2009) argues against drawing a clear dividing line between lexicon and syntax
and shows evidence for some overlap not only between these two components but also
within the lexicon, where a strict stratification of the lexicon into stratum one that takes care of
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
assign all irregularities to the lexicon. So what emerges here is a macro-parameter
in the sense of Baker (2008) and Baker & Collins (2006) that distinguishes be-
tween the compounding strategies of the two language families. Roeper, Snyder
& Hiramatsu (2002: 4) and Roeper & Snyder (2005: 160) formalize this in terms of
a root compounding parameter. However, at the same time, there is a trend in re-
cent work in minimalism to even go so far as to eliminate the last of the remaining
macro-parameters (cf. Boeckx 2006: 81) or at least to reanalyze what has been cast
in macro-parametric terms in terms of (syntactic or lexical) micro-parameters
(cf. e.g. Biberauer et al. 2009; Starke 2010; Sheehan & Hinzen 2011; Roberts 2011b;
and many many others). This line of research is flanked by attempts to reanalyze
many of the idiosyncrasies initially assigned to the lexicon as regular syntactic or
post-syntactic phenomena (cf. to varying degrees Hale & Keyser 1992; 1993; 2002;
Halle & Marantz 1993; 1994; Harley 1995; 1998; 2002; 2005; 2008; Marantz 1997;
2001; 2007; Harley & Noyer 1998a,b; Borer 1999; 2005a,b; 2009).
This, however, does not account for a considerable amount of variation across
Germanic languages. Swedish, for instance, allows productive recursive root com-
pounding, just like German and English, with the caveat that left-branching com-
pounds (4b) require a linking element (LE), while right-branching compounds (4a)
can do without this element (cf. Mukai 2004: 12; Roeper & Snyder 2005: 157–8):
	 (4)	 a.	 barn	 bok	 klub	 Swedish
			 child	book	club	
			 ‘book club for children’
		 b.	 barn	 boks	 klub Swedish
			 child	book-LE	club
			 ‘children’s book club’
			 foot	 balls	 domare Swedish
			 foot	 ball-LE	referee
			 ‘soccer referee’
LEs also occur in other Germanic languages such as Dutch and German and, for
instance, in Greek, Russian and Turkish (cf. e.g. Ralli 1992; Booij 1992; Scalise
1992; DiSciullo 2005 for relevant examples), while they are completely absent from
irregularities and stratum two that is the locus for all regular processes cannot be maintained
either. As Giegerich (1999; 2004; 2009) points out, nominal compounding is one of the pro-
cesses that straddle the line between stratum two in the lexicon and syntax on the one hand and
stratum one and stratum two within the lexicon on the other. At this point I remain relatively
uncommitted with respect to the question of a lexicalist vs. a non-lexicalist approach in so far as
the analysis presented in this chapter (cf. below) is clearly influenced by accounts that argue in
favor of a distributed lexicon, however, nothing in principle should prevent alternative concep-
tions of the lexicon to be equally compatible with the analysis defended here.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
English or Chinese (cf. Zhang 2007) and crucially also from Spanish, Italian and
French – unless, of course a prepositional construction with a semantically empty
preposition is also identified as an instantiation of a LE (cf. Ralli 2008: 20–25).
Hence, with respect to the presence or absence of LEs the sharp distinction between
Romance and Germanic compounding patterns does not hold up and Germanic
languages display a large amount of inter-language variation.
This chapter discusses the intralanguage variation found in German nominal
root compounding. In a first step data from German are presented that illustrate
the considerable amount of variation exhibited by nominal root compounds in this
language. The analysis of the relevant data shows that two types of compounding
need to be distinguished in German. On the one hand, German displays a substan-
tial amount of nominal root compounds that follow the expected Germanic pat-
tern, which derives productive, recursive and compositional compounds. On the
other hand, a second group of nominal root compounds in German is character-
ized by the non-compositional, non-productive and non-recursive properties of its
members and thus patterns much more closely with the type of compounding de-
scribed for Romance. It is shown that the distinction between these two patterns
falls in line with the presence or absence of inflectional material on the first ele-
ment4 involved in the nominal root compound. LEs, it turns out, are not a relevant
factor here (contra Ralli 2008), as those compounds that display them pattern with
nominal root compounds that lack inflectional marking and thus have a drifted
lexical interpretation in contrast to a truly compositional reading (that is charac-
teristic of compounds with inflectional markers). Hence a distinction needs to be
made between nominal root compounds with inflectional marking on the one
hand and those that lack the relevant inflection but (may) feature an LE5 instead.
Some analyses try to capture this distinction in terms of an abstract clitic posi-
tion (ACP) that is present on the former type of compounds but not on the latter
(cf. e.g. Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu 2002; Roeper & Snyder 2005), in terms of un-
saturated theta-features and the word vs. root compounding distinction (cf. Mukai
2004 and to some extent Ralli 2008), or in terms of parameterized Phases and the
role of symmetry dissolution (cf. Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni 2008). It is shown
that each of these analyses faces serious problems in a minimalist framework and
that none of these can prima facie account for the variation found in German.
Finally, drawing on the insights of these previous approaches, an alternative
analysis that accounts for the distinction between the two compounding patterns
4.	 For the moment I use the neutral term element, because I want to remain non-committed to
the question whether German exhibits root-compounding or word-compounding at this point.
The analysis in the following chapters will provide a clear answer, so I ask the reader to be patient.
5.	 I will come back to a more detailed discussion on the LE below.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
without running into the same problems is presented. It is argued that all nominal
root compounds are adjunction structures that are the product of Merger of two
heads. Hence, both types of compounds are syntactically derived and both types of
compounds involve a point of symmetry that results from the Merger of two heads.
The difference between the two patterns reduces to how this point of symmetry is
dissolved in the course of the derivation. One possible scenario is the Merger of the
inflectional marker on the first element. Following the analysis in Marantz (2001;
2007) it is argued that the inflectional marker is a categorizing little x-head that has
the properties of a Phase-head. Several consequences follow from this. First, the
presence of inflectional material coincides with a Phase that triggers cyclic Spell-
Out. This then means that the element to which the inflectional marker is attached
undergoes independent interpretation at LF and thus ultimately allows for a com-
positional interpretation. The alternative scenario for the other type of compound
is that the two roots are merged without undergoing categorization by a little
x-head. In this case, independent interpretation is not expected, which explains the
non-compositional and non-productive character of this type of compound. As
long as there are no conflicts in the featural make-up of the two Merger candidates,
a point of symmetry dissolution is not anticipated either, which explains the lack of
recursion. This leads to a picture in which a point of symmetry is tolerated in the
derivation as long as it is dissolved by the time of Spell-Out and in which both
types of nominal root compounds are derived syntactically. Interpretational differ-
ences between the two types of compounds that coincide with productivity and
recursivity follow from a Phase-based account that is independently motivated.
2.2	 Nominal root compounds in German – The data
As is pointed out above (and cf. also examples (1) and (3)), German exhibits recur-
sive, productive and compositional root compounding in the nominal domain.
However, when taking a broader look at German nominal root compounds a more
fine grained picture emerges:
	 (5)	 a.	 Landstraße German
			 country + road
			 ‘country road’
		 b.	 Landsmann German
			 country.gen + man
			 ‘compatriot’
		 c.	 Landeskirche German
			 country.gen + church
			 ‘national church’
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
		 d.	 Länderspiel German
			 country.pl + match
			 ‘match between two national teams’
The form in (5a) consists of the combination of the two roots Land and Straße. No
other lexical material intervenes between these two roots. In the other forms in
(5b)–(5d) instead the first6 element of the compound always contains inflectional
material. The forms in (5b) and (5c) are marked genitive and the form in (5d)
contains a plural marker. From the perspective of compounding this is somewhat
unexpected, because inflectional material is usually confined to the edges of the
compound rather than to compound internal positions (cf. e.g. Allen 1978: 112;
Scalise 1986: 122).7 However, this is by no means universal, neither across lan-
guages, nor for Germanic (cf. Selkirk 1982: 52–53 for an early rebuttal) and it is to
be noted that in the German cases under discussion here a very clear interpreta-
tional effect emerges. This effect is illustrated in (6):
	 (6)	 a.	 Landstraße	 ‘country road’
		 b.	 Landsmann	 ‘compatriot’
				 or ‘man who loves the countryside’
				
or ‘man who advocates for the conservation of the
countryside’, etc.
		 c.	 Landeskriche	 ‘national church’
				 or ‘church that is associated with the country’
				
or ‘church that shows the country’s typical architec-
ture’, etc.
		 d.	 Länderspiel	 ‘match between two national teams’
				
or ‘game that involves knowledge about certain
countries’
				 or ‘game that is typically played in certain countries’
				
or ‘game that is characterized by customs of a certain
country’, etc.
6.	 “First” here means the element that linearly precedes the other compound element. It does
not reflect any ordering with respect to Merger order. How this linear order is derived from the
syntactic structure is discussed in detail in subsequent chapters.
7.	 This does not include LEs, of course, which occur compound internally all over the place.
Yet, even truly inflectional markers may occur inside compounds as is well known from notori-
ous examples like parks commissioner, teeth-marks, etc. Thus, the assumption that the markers
we find in the German compounds in (5b)–(5d) are actually inflectional markers is not totally
out of the way and the implications that follow from such an assumption are discussed at great
length throughout this chapter (cf. also Wiese (1996); Gallmann (1998) for arguments that go
into the same direction).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
The compound in (6a) which does not involve any compound internal inflectional
material has just one fixed and (somewhat) lexicalized interpretation. The com-
pounds in (6b)–(6d), which contain inflectional markers on the first root, differ
from the one in (6a) in that they allow alternative interpretations next to the pre-
ferred interpretation. Hence, a Landstraße is a very specific type of road and it is
not any kind of road that runs through the countryside. In particular the rural
stretch of an interstate highway is not a Landstraße. This is radically different for
the forms in (6b)–(6d). Although all of these forms have a preferred interpretation
that is reflected in the dictionary entry for each word, a number of alternative in-
terpretations exist alongside. So the preferred interpretation for Landsman in (6b)
is that of ‘compatriot’ and in (6c) the perhaps even more lexicalized interpretation
for Landeskriche is that of ‘national church’. This, however, does not exclude the
alternative interpretations provided for (6b) and (6c). Incidentally, when
Landeskirche is interpreted as referring to ‘a church that is built in the architecture
that is typical of a certain country’, this does not indicate that this church is one in
which the state’s religion is practiced, which is the only reasonable interpretation
for Landeskirche as ‘national church’. Somewhat along the same lines, if Länderspiel
in (6d) is not interpreted as ‘match between two national teams’ say, e.g. Canada
and the US in olympic ice-hockey, but as ‘a game that involves knowledge about
certain countries’ this latter game could for instance be a children’s board game
that has nothing to do with sportive competition between two nations.
It is true, though, that the preferred interpretations listed as the first transla-
tion in (6b)–(6d) have a rather strong tendency for lexicalization. In that respect
they resemble the root + root compounds which (6a) is an example of. However,
none of this comes as a surprise. If the compounds in (6b)–(6d) are words derived
by a syntactic process of word-formation, it should only be natural that the result
of this process is stored in the lexicon, where it is immediately open for drift. Also,
that just one of the interpretations in (6b)–(6d) goes down as the preferred inter-
pretation is a perfectly natural consequence for a syntactic process, the result of
which is entered in the lexicon. What is important to note though is that alterna-
tive interpretations will always be available for those compounds that include in-
ternal inflectional markers, even in those cases where the preferred interpretation
has a comparatively strong tendency for lexical drift and a fixed interpretation:
	 (7)	 a.	 Bettlaken German
			 bed + sheet
			 ‘bedsheet’
		 b.	 Bettenburg German
			 bed.pl + castle
			 ‘big ugly hotel with lots of rooms’
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
The form in (7a) follows the pattern of the form in (6a). The combination of two
roots, without any intervening inflectional markers, leads to a compound that has
only one fixed interpretation. A Bettlaken is a ‘bedsheet’ and no alternative read-
ings are available. Not even a sheet that has beds printed on it would be a Bettlaken
but rather a Bettenlaken, i.e. a form that features a plural marker on the first
element. The interpretation of the compound in (7b) seems to be even more drift-
ed. Interpreting a word that combines the lexical items for ‘bed’, i.e. Bett and ‘castle’,
i.e. Burg as some kind of ‘hotel’ is precisely what is expected from lexical items
with a non-compositional reading. So, this is definitely the preferred interpreta-
tion that most people would identify when prompted and it is the interpretation
that is listed in the Duden-dictionary (cf. Duden 2007).
However, alternative interpretations are clearly available. One is to refer to ‘a
castle that is built in the shape of a bed’ as a Bettenburg and an alternative that is
just as viable is that of referring to ‘an arrangement of several beds that resembles
a castle’ (as maybe being built by children in a youth hostel) as a Bettenburg. Hence,
despite the truly drifted and fixed, but preferred, interpretation provided in (7b)
alternatives are easily imaginable.
So the presence of an inflectional marker inside the compound does not
force a compositional interpretation: in fact, lexicalized interpretations are
available and can even be the ‘standard’ interpretation that is most easily identi-
fied. Yet, the presence of an inflectional marker inside the compound makes a
compositional interpretation recoverable. The same can be observed in English.
The word outgoing, for instance, can refer to the characterization of a person,
however, the person so described, need not necessarily go out. Hence, in this
respect, the word is used in a non-compositional way similar to the Bettenburg
interpretation in (7b). On the other hand, the compositional interpretation that
an outgoing person goes out is clearly available as can be seen from the example
below:
	 (8)	 The outgoing president was not very outgoing.
In contrast, the pair in (9a) and (9b) illustrates that the compositional interpreta-
tion gets lost as soon as the inflectional marker is lost:
	 (9)	 a.	 incoming mail
		 b.	 income mail
In the example in (9a) incoming features the aspectual -ing marker that also deter-
mines the compositional interpretation in (8). This marker is lost in (9b). As a
consequence, income mail can only refer to mail that has something to do with
money, e.g. mail that contains the income or income statement, etc. Thus, despite
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
the fact that English compounds do not typically8 show compound-internal in-
flectional marking, the pattern that emerges for compounds that contain inflec-
tional markers inside the word in German, can also be found in English. As long
as an inflectional marker is available, a compositional reading can still be retrieved;
once the inflectional marker is lost, the interpretation of the compound is fixed
and does not allow for productive alternatives.
As has been pointed out above, a lexicalized interpretation – like the one
that is preferred for Bettenburg and possibly also outgoing – is completely ex-
pected under the assumption that the products of a syntactic process of word-
formation are stored in the lexicon, where they are immediately available for
drift. Further, assuming that the process of compounding is fed by lexical items
listed in the lexicon, it should also be expected that lexical items with a drifted
meaning can be employed in compounding. This is indeed the case, as is illus-
trated in (10):
	 (10)	 a.	 Wortwitz German
			 word + wit
			 ‘verbal wit/pun’
		 b.	 Wörterbuch German
			 word.pl + book
			 ‘dictionary’
(10a) is the compound without inflectional material and, as expected, the interpre-
tation for this compound is clearly drifted and without alternatives. The compound
in (10b), on the other hand, contains a plural marker on the first element and along-
side the preferred interpretation of ‘dictionary’ alternative readings exist, e.g. ‘book
that has words printed on its cover’. So far, the two compounds behave completely
as expected. What is particularly noteworthy in this context though is the plural
form. The word Wort in German has two different plural forms, listed in (11):
	 (11)	 a.	 Wörter German
			 word.pl
			 ‘words’
		 b.	 Worte German
			 word.pl
			 ‘words’
8.	 This does not mean that compound internal inflectional markers are completely out in
English (cf. e.g. Selkirk 1982; Scalise 1986 and others for several examples). In fact, some English
compounds show inflectional markers on the first element just like the German examples dis-
cussed here and similar to the German examples, these compounds show a clear interpreta-
tional effect. This is discussed further below.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
In (11a) the plural is formed by umlauting and the inflectional suffix -er, while in
(11b) the weak inflectional marker -e is attached to the root; this time without
umlauting. As indicated by the English translations, both forms mark the plural
for ‘word’. However, there is a slight but straightforward interpretational difference
between the two plural forms. Wörter in (11a) refers to any loose assemblage of
more than one word, Worte in contrast has the very specific meaning of words in
a coherent piece of speech, i.e. it describes a meaningful utterance that consists of
more than one word, e.g. a short statement. The following sentences further illus-
trate this contrast:
	 (12)	 a.	 An der Tafel stehen viele verschiedene Wörter.
			 ‘There are many different words on the blackboard’.
		 b.	 An der Tafel stehen viele verschiedene Worte.
			 ‘There are many different words on the blackboard’.
		 a.	 Seine Worte erregten viel Aufmerksamkeit.
			 ‘His words caught a lot of attention’.
		 b.	 Seine Wörter erregten viel Aufmerksamkeit.
			 ‘His words caught a lot of attention’.
When comparing (12) and (13) it is obvious that both plural forms of Wort can be
used in both sentence pairs. The interpretations in the respective (a) and (b) sen-
tences differ however. Let’s start by looking at the examples in (13) first. (13a) de-
scribes a situation in which the speaker’s words caught attention, because what the
speaker said was remarkable, e.g. the president’s State of the Union address may
have caught a lot of attention due to the fact that he openly criticized the Supreme
Court ruling on campaign finance. In (13b), instead, the speaker’s words caught
attention not due to the meaningful utterance that they produced, but rather due
to the nature and quality of the words themselves, e.g. due to the fact that the
president used the words Massachusetts and Norwottock and showed some trouble
in pronouncing them correctly.
The same distinction can be made for the sentences in (12a) and (12b). In
(12a) the words on the blackboard need not stand in any meaningful relation to
one another. Rather they are words that are listed, maybe just because they illus-
trate an interesting linguistic phenomenon. The words on the blackboard in (12b)
instead need to convey a meaningful message and can refer to quotations from
e.g. Emily Dickinson or Nathaniel Hawthorne. In any case, what the examples
clearly demonstrate is that, as expected, in the compound Wörterbuch it is the
plural meaning of ‘words’, illustrated in (11a), (12a) and (13b), that is used, in-
stead of the plural meaning conveyed by the plural form in (11b), (12b) and
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
(13a).9 So, despite the fact that some plural forms may have a drifted and lexical-
ized meaning, this does not mean that they cannot be used for productive com-
pounding in German.
Another interesting contrast between the two types of compounds discussed
here is displayed by the examples in (14):
	 (14)	 a.	 Glasdach German
			 glass + roof
			 ‘glassroof’
		 b.	 Gläsertuch German
			 glass.pl + cloth
			 ‘dishtowel’10
As is by now expected, the form in (14a) which lacks compound-internal inflec-
tional markers is the one that does not allow for any alternative readings. The form
in (14b), in turn, contains a plural marker on Glas, but has an interpretation that,
prima facie, seems to be far more fixed and drifted than the interpretation in (14a).
In this respect, the pattern here resembles the one in (7a) and (7b). And despite the
apparent drift, just like in (7b), in (14b) several alternative readings are available.
These alternatives need to be distinguished carefully though. For one, Gläsertuch
can refer to a ‘cloth for wiping reading-glasses’. This interpretation is completely
expected, given the facts in (15):
9.	 It might be of interest that in a small scale test among colleagues and friends who were
prompted for a word for a book that contains words in the Worte sense of the word (no pun
intended) the word Wortebuch was volunteered in 12 out of 15 cases, which is somewhat unex-
pected due to the reasoning that the -e on Worte allegedly is deleted in compound formation,
but is totally in line with what is expected from novel compound formation. Furthermore,
schwa-deletion is not as robust as one might think. There are a number of cases, where schwa
is present in nominal root compounds: Gästezimmer, Hundeschule, Tagegeld, Läusemittel,
Früchtebrot etc. For all of these compounds a preferred interpretation as well as alternative in-
terpretations are available. Then again, there is a compound in which the schwa also is not
deleted, but where no alternative interpretation seems to arise: Mausefalle. This is not surpris-
ing though, because here the schwa alone does not suffice for plural marking. This form also
requires umlauting. This, however, is missing here, thus alternative interpretations are not ex-
pected to emerge.
10.	 In fact, the meaning of the German word is more narrowly restricted than the English
translation suggests. A Gläsertuch is a dishtowel for wiping glasses, a dishtowel for wiping dish-
es is a Geschirrtuch (Geschirr = dish) in German and for the extremely picayunish and philistine
there is also a Bestecktuch (Besteck = cutlery) for wiping cutlery.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
	 (15)	 a.	 Glas German
			 glass
			 ‘glass’
		 b.	 Gläser German
			 glass.pl
			 ‘(drinking/reading) glasses’
The plural form of the German word Glas itself has a number of different interpre-
tations, since it can refer to ‘reading glasses’ and ‘drinking glasses’ respectively and
it should therefore not come as a surprise that both interpretations can also be
used for productive and compositional compounding in (14b). Additionally,
Gläsertuch can be interpreted as ‘a towel with a glass-imprint’, ‘a towel to wipe
windows’, ‘a towel to wipe mirrors’, etc. So again, next to the preferred interpreta-
tion given in (14b), a large number of alternative readings is available. Interest-
ingly, pluralization of the mass term Glas here does not only have an individuating
effect (cf. Borer 2005a: 101–132; Alexiadou, Haegeman & Stavrou 2007: 229–235),
instead also a variety interpretation for Glas emerges (cf. Chierechia 1998a;
1998b).11 Under this variety reading the multiple interpretations for Gläser in the
compound Gläsertuch can be accounted for.
A similar situation can be observed for English nominal root compounds.
Roeper & Snyder (2005) and Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002) argue that all
nominal root compounds in English are compositional irrespective of the pres-
ence or absence of inflectional markers.12 However, as already pointed out in
Selkirk (1982), the presence of an inflectional marker may have an interpretation-
al effect. The examples in (16) and (17) illustrate that, indeed, in English effects
similar to those observed in German result:
11.	 I will refrain from discussing the origin of these interpretational effects, i.e. whether they
result from a separate functional projection as argued for by Ritter 1991; Borer (2005a) and
Alexiadou (et al.) (2007) or from type coercion as supported in Chierechia (1998a; 1998b). The
discussion on the derivation of the structures for the compounds presented here will shed
some light on this and the reader is referred to the relevant subsections of Chapter 2.3.5 for
further analysis.
12.	 Whether this really holds for all nominal root compound is open for debate and will be
qualified to some extent in the discussion below. However, it is unquestionably true that compo-
sitional readings exist for compounds without inflectional markers. In fact, Tom Roeper (p.c.)
points out that home run is a compound that does not have a compositional interpretation, as it
does not relate to a run that is directed homewards but to a particular event in baseball instead.
Although it might be somewhat unclear whether home run actually is a nominal root com-
pound, another example, i.e. catbird seat is one (again thanks to Tom Roeper for pointing this
one out to me) that clearly illustrates the point.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	 (16)	 a.	 arms race
			 arms cabinet
		 b.	 arm race
			 arm cabinet
	 (17)	 a.	 chair factory
			 shoe sale
		 b.	 chairs factory
			 shoes sale
The forms in (16a) contain an inflectional plural marker, just like the German
forms discussed above. Similar to the plural forms of Wort in German, the plurals
in (16a) have a lexicalized interpretation, which can be seen from the fact that in
the preferred interpretation arms is interpreted as weapons in the examples. Hence,
an arms race is ‘a competition between two nations in producing and displaying all
sorts of weapons’. However, just as in the German cases, alternative readings are
easily available, in which the word is interpreted as ‘a race in which the winner gets
a weapon as a price’, ‘a race organized by supporters for or opponents to the Second
Amendment’, etc. The same, of course, holds for arms cabinet, which can be inter-
preted as:
	 (18)	 a.	 a piece of furniture in which weapons are securely stored
		 b.	 a piece of furniture that has weapons painted on it
		 c.	 a cabinet that deals with questions on weapons
		 d.	 etc....
What the readings in (18) illustrate is that, on the one hand, the fixed interpreta-
tion for arms as weapons is maintained in all of the examples, while at the same
time, cabinet can be interpreted either as ‘a piece of furniture’ or as ‘an institu-
tional body in government’, hence displaying flexibility similar to the two interpre-
tations for Gläser in German as ‘drinking glasses’ and ‘reading glasses’.
The compounds in (16b), in contrast, cannot be interpreted as ‘having to do
with weapons’. Whatever the interpretations for these novel compounds might be,
they can only have the ‘arm as limb’ interpretation. So, in essence, in English, just
like in German lexicalized plural forms can be used for productive and composi-
tional compound formation.
Furthermore, the examples in (17a) and (17b) suggest that English also allows
for a variety interpretation of plural forms – comparable to the German cases
in (14b).13 The compounds chair factory and shoe sale are compositional and
13.	 And this seems to be a fairly regular pattern: claims procedure, games code, stakes regulation,
books fair, shirts imprint, shells collection, cars dealer, nails studio, implants trade, ....
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
productive despite the fact that they do not contain any inflectional markers. In
this respect they correspond to the analysis in Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002)
and Roeper & Snyder (2005) according to which English compounds are compo-
sitional regardless of the presence or absence of inflectional material. The com-
pounds in (17b) are plural marked, similar to the ones in (16a). The plural marker
here though does not lead to a fixed and drifted interpretation, instead, a variety
reading akin to the one in Gläsertuch arises. So, a chairs factory does not only pro-
duce one type of chair but a whole variety of different chairs (but possibly just one
of a kind). The same holds for shoes sale. A very cursory google search reveals that
shoes sale is found in many contexts in which certain very specific types of shoes
are on sale, e.g. kid’s shoes sale, women’s shoes sale, running shoes sale, Nike shoes
sale, etc. This underlines that the plural marker on shoes indeed has the effect of a
variety interpretation in English compounds that corresponds to the one observed
for the German compounds above.
So far, the discussion mainly centered around the productivity and composi-
tionality aspects of nominal root compounds in German and English. For the re-
mainder of this chapter, I will now turn to the third characteristic identified for
Germanic compounds (in contrast to Romance compounds) that is carefully reex-
amined here: recursivity. German is notoriously described as a language that al-
lows for monstrous recursive compounds. One of these is:14
	 (19)	 Donaudampfschifffahrtgesellschaft German
		 Danube-steam-ship-trip-company
		 ‘danube steamship company’
However, the apparent recursivity in this compound needs to be dialed back a
little. Hollebrandse, Hobbs, de Villiers & Roeper (2008: 269–270) and Roeper
& Hollebrandse (forthcoming), argue for a distinction between true recursion,
which results only from second order embedding and other forms of apparently
recursive operations. In particular they point out that first order embedding need
not be the result of recursion but can be achieved by other means in the grammar.
14.	 It is hereby acknowledged that longer versions of this game can be played, such as the one
in (i):
	 (i)	 Donaudampfschiffahrtgesellschaftskapitänsuniformknopfloch
		 danube-steam-ship-trip-company.le-captain.gen-uniform-button-whole
		 ‘button hole of the uniform of the captain of the danube steamship company’

I will refrain from discussing this structure, because for the point to be made the example in (19)
is absolutely sufficient. Apart from the genitive marker on Kapitän none of the compound ele-
ments is inflected, and the interpretation for this compound is fixed. Note also, that the linking
element on Gesellschaft does not contribute alternative readings in the way inflectional markers
contribute to the compositionality of the compounds discussed above.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Thus, a distinction needs to be made between true recursion which is indirect and
iteration which is direct repetition of a category. In this light the example in (19)
turns out to be a case of iteration rather than recursion, since it does not include
any second order embedding but a N-N-N-... structure15 instead.
Closer inspection of the compound in (19) (and the one in (i) in footnote 14
for that matter) also reveals that this compound is not productive and composi-
tional in the sense discussed above. Hence, here no alternative interpretations are
available, which is completely unexpected, given that the combination of just two
elements already provides for a large number of alternative readings, as has been
illustrated in great detail in the discussion above. The same applies to the com-
pound in (20), which at first sight might also be regarded as an instance of recur-
sive compounding:
	 (20)	 Kindbettfieber German
		 child + bed + fever
		 ‘childbedfever’
In this compound three elements are combined and again it seems only reasonable
to expect various interpretational possibilities here, however, none of the elements
in the compound is inflected. This is what leads to a lack of alternative interpreta-
tions and at the same time also to a lack of recursivity. This lack of recursivity can
immediately be explained by the form in (21):
	 (21)	 Kindbett German
		 child + bed
		 ‘childbed’
The noun Kindbett (‘childbed’) is a compound that consists of two elements that
are combined without any intervening material. According to the discussion
above, it is expected that this compound has just one interpretation that is some-
what drifted. This is borne out here. No alternatives are available and the meaning
of the word is definitely fixed. As such, the word is stored in the lexicon, from
where it can be retrieved for further compounding as in (20). The lexicalized
meaning of the compound in (21) is, however, retained then and the new com-
pound is again formed by a process of first order embedding.
15.	 Whether this is really a N + N structure is still to be discussed. What is without question
though is that there is no second order embedding and that the compound in (19) is a case of
direct embedding and strict iteration that can be achieved by means other than recursion. In
effect, then, the -e in Mausefalle is a pure LE, while in the other cases it is a plural marker. Notice
further, that the LE -e occurs in other places as well. Specifically, it surfaces in VN compounds
of the type Ratespiel, Landebahn, Bergepanzer, etc.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
The forms in (22) illustrate the derivation, in which the presence of inflec-
tional plural markers provides for alternative readings:
	 (22)	 a.	 Kinderbett German
			 child.pl + bed
			 ‘crib’ or
			 ‘bed that children sleep in’ or
			 ‘bed with a kid’s motif,’ etc., but:
			 *‘childbed’
		 b.	 Kindergarten German
			 child.pl + garden
			 ‘kindergarten’ or
			 ‘garden for children’ or
			 ‘small garden’ or
			 ‘garden maintained by children’, etc.
Here a number of different interpretations are available alongside the preferred
interpretation, which is listed as the first translational equivalent in (22a) and
(22b). Significantly, the presence of inflectional material once again makes alter-
natives retrievable, but to the exclusion of the drifted interpretation of the com-
pound in (21), which differs from (22a) only with respect to the lack of a plural
marker on Kind.
The question that now emerges is whether the compounds in (22) are recursive.
Given the definition of recursivity in Hollebrandse, Hobbs, de Villiers & Roeper
(2008) and Roeper & Hollebrandse (forthcoming) the answer is: maybe. Since first
order embedding need not necessarily be the result of recursion but can derive
from other processes, it is not so clear, whether these examples fall under this ru-
bric or not. To illustrate this further, consider the compound in (23):
	 (23)	 Kindergartenstuhl German
		 child.pl + garden + chair
		 ‘chair in a kindergarten’ or
		 ‘gardenchair for children’ or
		 ‘small gardenchair’ or
		 ‘gardenchair frequented by children’, etc.
This compound shows the interpretational flexibility discussed so far for compo-
sitional and productive compounds. However, this apparent flexibility is severely
restricted and centers around two readings. The first one is the one listed in (23)
as ‘chair in a kindergarten’, where Kindergarten is interpreted in the same way as
in English. This, as indicated in (22b), is the preferred but clearly lexicalized
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
interpretation for this compound. As such, the lexicalized interpretation is stored
in the lexicon and it is thereby accessible for further combinations of the N + N
type. Hence, for this first translation the lexicalized element Kindergarten and the
lexical item Stuhl are taken from the lexicon and are combined without the addi-
tion of any further material.
The other interpretations listed for Kindergartenstuhl in (23) differ from the one
discussed above in so far as here the lexicalized interpretation of Kindergarten is not
available. Nor is any of the other alternatives listed in (22b) accessible. This can be
explained straightforwardly by the fact that this compound is not recursive. Instead,
the lexicalized compound Gartenstuhl ‘garden chair’ that does not contain any in-
flectional markers is combined with the plural marked form Kinder. Interestingly,
in this context many of the alternative interpretations that have been identified for
Kindergarten in the ‘garden of/for kids’ reading here emerge with a ‘garden chair of/
for kids’ interpretetation, as can easily be seen when comparing the interpretations
listed for (22b) to those listed for (23). So, the productivity and compositionality
generated by the plural marker on Kind generates interpretational variants in both
cases. However, neither interpretation of Kindergartenstuhl is recursive; and com-
positional interpretations, which are available for Kindergarten alone, cannot be
generated in this compound, simply due to the fact that this would leave the lexical
item Stuhl were it combined with the uninflected form of Garten hanging in the air,
unless it is interpreted with the fixed meaning of ‘garden chair’.16
In sum, the compound in (23) is compositional and productive in exactly
those places where this is expected, i.e. where the inflectional marker occurs. It is
not recursive in the sense of Hollebrandse, Hobbs, de Villiers & Roeper (2008) and
Roeper & Hollebrandse (forthcoming) though, because there is no second order
embedding. Hence, despite what looks like recursive compounding in German,
there are actually a number of cases that do not fall under this heading. Some fur-
ther cases are illustrated in (24):
	 (24)	 a.	 Haustürschlüssel German
			 house + door + key
			 ‘latch key’
16.	 Some speakers report intonational variation depending on whether the first or the second
interpretation is intended. So, for the ‘chair in a kindergarten’ interpretation the main stress is
on Kinder while for the alternative interpretation it is on Garten. Unfortunately, not all speakers
confirm to this judgement. To the extent that this is a robust pattern, it provides further evidence
for the availability of alternative interpretations exactly along the lines predicted here. Main
stress falls on the first item in fixed compounds, while productive compounds with inflectional
markers are characterized by level stress on both items. Hence, it is only natural that Garten in
Gartenstuhl attracts main stress, while Kinder in Kindergarten receives the main stress in the
other interpretation.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
		 b.	 Salzbergwerk German
			 salt + mountain + manufacture
			 ‘salt mine’
		 c.	 Plastikspielzeugauto German
			 plastic + toy + car
			 ‘plastic toycar’
		 d.	 Fensterbankpolster German
			 window + bench + upholstery
			 ‘upholstery for window sill’
All of these compounds consist of three lexical items. But due to the lack of inflec-
tional markers these compounds all have a fixed interpretation and none of them
is recursive in the sense of Hollebrandse, Hobbs, de Villiers & Roeper (2008) and
Roeper & Hollebrandse (forthcoming). In fact, for all compounds smaller com-
pounds consisting of just two lexical items can be identified. In those cases where
mild variation in interpretation is possible, e.g. in (24c) which can be interpreted
either as ‘a plastic toy which is a car’ or as ‘toy car which is made of plastic’, this
results from the fact that both compounds exist in the lexicon, as can be seen from
the examples in (24’):
	 (24)	 a’.	 Haustür German
			 house + door
			 ‘frontdoor’
		 b’.	 Bergwerk German
			 mountain + manufacture
			 ‘mine/pit’
		 c’.	 Plastikspielzeug German
			 plastic + toy
			 ‘plastic toy’
			 Spielzeugauto German
			 toy + car
			 ‘toycar’
		 d’.	 Fensterbank German
			 window + bench
			 ‘windowsill’
			 Bankpolster German
			 bench + upholstery
			 ‘upholstery for bench’
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
So it is not the case that the compound in (24c) is compositional and allows for a
number of alternative interpretations despite the fact that it does not contain an
inflectional marker. This compound does not provide counterevidence to the pat-
tern discussed here. In fact, it is completely in line with this pattern in that inter-
pretational variation is strictly limited to those two variants that result from the
two different inputs illustrated in (24c’). And due to the fact that there is no second
order embedding, these compounds are not recursive either. In the derivation of
all of these compounds exactly two lexical items are combined from the lexicon
without any intervening material.
The compounds in (25), instead, are productive, recursive and compositional:
	 (25)	 a.	 Kindertassenmotiv German
			 child.pl + cup.pl + motif
			 ‘motif on a cup designed for children’ or
			 ‘photography of kid’s cups’ or
			 ‘kid’s photography on a cup’ or
			 ‘cup motif designed by children’, etc.
		 b.	 Sonnenbrillentuch German
			 sun.pl + (reading) glasses.pl + cloth
			 ‘cloth for wiping sunglasses’ or
			 ‘cloth for wiping glasses with a sun-imprint’ or
			 ‘cloth with a sun and glasses imprint’ or
			 ‘cloth with a sunglasses imprint’ or
			 ‘cloth with a glasses imprint where the glasses are shaped like suns’, etc.
		 c.	 Straßenschilderwand
			 street.pl + sign.pl + wall
			 ‘wall constructed of streetsigns’ or
			 ‘wall constructed of signs with pictures of streets’ or
			 ‘wall constructed of pictures of streets and of signs’ or
			 ‘wall constructed of various types of streetsigns’, etc.
All of the compounds in (25) have a preferred interpretation, but they allow for a
substantial number of alternative interpretations. Since they all have inflectional
markers on the compound internal lexical items, this is completely in line with the
observations discussed so far. Just like the compounds in (24), those listed in (25)
also consist of compounds listed in the lexicon with a preferred interpretation.
Hence, the compound Sonnenbrille is probably listed with the interpretation of
‘sunglasses’. The alternative interpretation of ‘reading glasses where the lenses are
mounted in sun-shaped frames’ is probably not lexicalized and not listed in
the lexicon, but as can be seen in (25) it is still available in the compound Sonnen-
brillentuch. Notably, this was not the case in (23), where the interpretation of
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
Kindergarten as e.g. ‘garden for children’ is not accessible, due to the lack of an
inflectional marker on Garten.17 Hence, only in those cases where all compound
internal lexical items are inflected, compositional and productive readings are
available and since the interpretation of Sonnenbrille as described above is not
listed in the lexicon, it can be concluded safely that the compounds in (25) are also
recursive, because they involve clear cases of second order embedding.
Let me close this section by pointing out one more thing: most of the inflec-
tional markers on the compounds discussed in this section have been analyzed
and glossed as plural markers. Only on some of the German compounds in (3) and
on the forms in (5b) and (5c) as well as on the form (i) in footnote fourteen, the
inflectional marker identified is not a plural but a genitive form. Although geni-
tives seem to be somewhat less frequent than plurals, the function of the genitives
seems to be the same. As long as the inflectional marker is present a composi-
tional reading is recoverable and remains available under second order embed-
ding. Some further examples for compounds with genitive markers that can be
interpreted compositionally and that allow for a whole range of alternative read-
ings are provided in (26):
	 (26)	 a.	 Manneskraft German
			 man.gen + power
			 ‘potency’ or ‘manpower’, etc.
		 b.	 Mannsbild German
			 man.gen + picture
			 ‘hunk’ or ‘picture of a man’, etc.
		 c.	 Sportsfreund German
			 sport.gen + friend
			 ‘old sport’ or ‘friend/supporter of sports’, etc.
		 d.	 Bauersfrau German
			 farmer.gen + woman
			 ‘farmer’s wife’ or ‘female farmer’ or
			 ‘female who behaves like a farmer,’ etc.
		 e.	 Meeresspiegel German
			 ocean.gen + mirror
			 ‘sea level’ or ‘surface of the ocean’, etc.
17.	 To make this even more clear: the moment the lexical item Garten is inflected as in (i), the
interpretation of ‘a chair to be found in a garden for kids’ is available, among other interpreta-
tions going in the same direction.
	 (i)	 Kindergärtenstuhl
		 child.pl + garden.pl + chair
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
As the examples illustrate, genitive markers on the lexical items inside the com-
pound have roughly the same effect that can also be observed for plural markers.
Not even the particular form of the genitive matters, as was illustrated for the two
forms in (5b) and (5c) already and is reiterated here for the forms in (26a) and
(26b). We will therefore refrain from further distinction between plural and geni-
tive markers and also among possible forms of genitive markers, at least for the
time being. Both markers have the same interpretational effects and at times they
even seem to coexist without any detectable difference in meaning:
	 (27)	 a.	 Amtsgang German
			 office.gen + walk
			 ‘official procedure’ or
			 ‘hallway in an institution’, etc.
		 b.	 Ämtergang German
			 office.pl + walk
			 ‘official procedure’ or
			 ‘hallway in an institution’, etc.
My informants report that both versions work equally well for most of them – with
both interpretations. Some even get additional readings for both or just one of the
forms in (27). In any case there does not seem to be any reliably noticeable differ-
ence between the use of a genitive or a plural marker. It is quite striking though
that no other inflectional markers can occur. For instance, no other case markers
occur. Albeit, it should at least be mentioned that in German all nominative and
genitive plural forms are syncretic.18, 19 Hence, there is at least the possibility that
18.	 Cases that are somewhat reminiscent of what is described here can be found in other plac-
es of the grammar as well. In adverbials like morgens, abends, mittags (‘in the morning, in the
evening, at noon’) etc. an -s morpheme occurs and despite its seemingly genitive character that
is immediately apparent in slightly archaic forms like des Morgens (the.gen morning.gen ‘in the
morning’), des Abends (the.gen evening.gen ‘in the evening’), etc. there is some indication that
the morpheme is (re)interpreted more and more frequently as a plural marker. One indication
for this is the repetitive semantics of the adverbials, further indication is that the determiner
cannot occur in forms like von morgens bis abends (‘from morning to night’) as is evident from
the ungrammaticality of *von des morgens bis des abends (‘from the.gen morning.gen to the.
gen evening.gen).
	 Similarly dialectal forms like Müllers Thomas (referring to the person of the Müller familiy
whose first name is Thomas) are forms in which it is not clear whether the -s on Müllers indicates
genitive case or plural (or both).
19.	 Further evidence arguably comes from Romance. Longobardi (1996; 2001b) argues that
certain N – N constructions in present-day Italian, French and Ibero-Romance languages can
be traced back to constructions in Old Italian, Old French, etc. that are related to the present
day Semitic construct-state constructions and that now contain a non-overt genitive pronoun
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
the plural marked forms are also marked for genitive at the same time.20 And in
fact, it is interesting to note that the prepositions found in prepositional com-
pound constructions in Romance are but a marker of genitive case as well.
	 (28)	 a.	 étoile	 de	 mer (French)
			 star	 of.gen	 sea
			 ‘starfish’
		 b.	 estrella	 de	 mar (Spanish)
			 star	 of.gen	 sea
			 ‘starfish’
		 c.	 stella	 di	 mare (Italian)
			 star	 of.gen	 sea
			 ‘starfish’
If anything, this can be taken as an indication that the German plural forms are
genitive marked forms too.21
(which he identified as Pro – distinct from both PRO and pro). Thus, here as well, seemingly
Nominative marked constituents actually bear genitive Case.
20.	 This is merely an observational statement at this point, but we will return to it in the follow-
ing sections of this chapter where arguments in favor of identifying just these two inflectional
markers will be provided.
21.	 There are, of course, a number of other prepositions that are used in nominal compounding
across Romance languages, however, even if they are not markers of genitive case, they may still
be compatible with the analysis here, as long as they do not mark structural case (cf. discussion
in Chapter 2.3.5). Notice also, that the correlation between compositional readings of preposi-
tional compounds and non-compositional readings of root compounds in Romance is far from
perfect, however, again reminiscent of the German and English forms discussed before, as long
as the (non-structural) case marking preposition is present, it is possible to recover a composi-
tional interpretation:
	 (i)	 cul-de-sac (French)
		 bottom of.gen bag
		 ‘cul de sac’ or ‘bottom of a bag’
	 (ii)	 dent de lion	 (French)
		 tooth of.gen lion
		 ‘dandelion’ or ‘tooth of a lion’	
	 (iii)	 eau de vie (French)
		 water of.gen life
		 ‘spirits’ or ‘water of life’
	 (iv)	 esprit de bois (French)
		 spirit of.gen wood
		 ‘methanol’ or ‘spirit of the wood’
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
The other possibility that is frequently pursued in the literature is to say that
what is identified as an inflectional marker here is merely a linking element that
is inserted for phonological reasons (cf. e.g. Bauer 2004: 57; Mukai 2004; Delfitto,
Fábregas & Melloni 2008; and others) or to be more precise it is inserted as a re-
pair for phonological words that are deviant (cf. Nübling & Szczepaniak 2009;
2010; 2011). This seems unreasonable for a number of reasons. First, it begs the
question why two or three forms are available as linkers (as e.g. in (5a)–(5d),
(26a) and (26b) and the forms in (27)) and what determines the choice of the
linker. Nor does it explain why those compounds that contain a would-be-linker
display exactly the interpretational variability that those that lack the linker do
not display. Nor does it explain why at the same time those compounds that con-
tain true linkers such as those in (29), where the marker on the first lexical item
cannot be identified as a genitive or a plural, do not display any interpretational
variability either:
	 (29)	 a.	 Liebesbrief German
			 love + LE + letter
			 ‘love letter’
		 b.	 Ansichtssache German
			 view + LE + thing
			 ‘matter of opinion’
		 c.	 Schönheitsideal German
			 beauty + LE + ideal
			 ‘beauty ideal’
		 d.	 Gesellschaftsvertrag German
			 company + LE + agreement
			 ‘bylaws’
The -s in the forms in (29) is neither a plural marker nor a genitive marker. The
table in (30) shows that nominative and genitive forms are syncretic for the lexical
items in (29) and that the plural is not formed with an -s inflection. Hence, – since
	 (v)	 langue de chat (French)
		 tounge of.gen cat
		 ‘ladybiscuit’ or ‘tongue of a cat’
	 (vi)	 mont de piété (French)
		 mountain of.gen piety
		 ‘pawnshop’ or ‘mountain of piety’
	 (vii)	 pot de vin (French)
		 pot of.gen wine
		 ‘bribe’ or ‘pot of wine’
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
the -s does not correspond to any other inflectional marker either – it is thus iden-
tified as a true linker.22
	 (30)	 Nominative	 Genitive	 Plural
		 Liebe	 Liebe	 –/Lieben23
		 Ansicht	 Ansicht	 Ansichten
		 Schönheit	 Schönheit	 Schönheiten
		 Gesellschaft	 Gesellschaft	 Gesellschaften
Basically this argument goes into the same direction as the line of reasoning pur-
sued in e.g. Nübling & Szczepaniak (2009; 2010; 2011) who acknowledge that
some elements that are commonly identified as linkers can be historically related
to inflectional morphology (cf. 2009: 197 & 214), while others, and in particular
the -s linker, cannot be accounted for in this way. However, this observation leads
Nübling & Szczepaniak (ibid) to the opposite of the conclusion reached here,
i.e. that the linker should generally not be associated with inflectional marking.
Even in those cases where diachronically a relation to inflectional marking is plau-
sible, this is insignificant for a synchronic analysis (2009: 199).
While it is perfectly licit to entertain this idea as an alternative, the conclusion
drawn by Nübling & Szczepaniak is not compelling though. According to their
analysis the addition of a linking element that is dissociated from inflectional
properties is an indication for an increasing morphologicalization of compounds
that allows for a clear dissociation from syntax (ibid: 206). The conclusion drawn
here is significantly distinct. The presence of an inflectional marker that is fre-
quently analyzed as a mere linker elsewhere indicates the syntactic nature of the
compound and allows for conclusions on its syntactic derivational history (cf. also
below for a more detailed version of this argument). The fact that inflectional
markers do not contribute neither a genuine plural interpretation nor a genuine
possession relation (or whatever else a genitive marker is typically taken to indi-
cate), does not necessarily indicate that the relevant element is not an inflectional
marker. After all, as has been illustrated above, an interpretive effect is clearly dis-
cernible, and expected given the SMT. The fact that syntactic operations are at
work should lead to an interpretive effect. This effect need not necessarily coincide
with the interpretive effect of a plural marker in a phrasal context. In fact, the
22.	 Notice that this makes the -s the sole linker. All other so called linking elements can be re-
analyzed as genitive or plural forms. The purpose of this linking -s then is to keep the two roots
that participate in the compounding process separate. Thus, the -s marks a word boundary that
prevents e.g. resyllabification or the application of other phonological rules that operate word
internally. Many thanks to Cecilia Poletto for pointing this out to me.
23.	 Liebe is, of course, a mass term. When it is individuated, however, the plural marker is not
the -s neither.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
complex interaction between various functional heads that eventually leads to a
genuine plural interpretation would be a rather surprising result in compound
structures where only some of the inflectional heads are found (cf. also the discus-
sion below for further elaboration).
So, in summary, it can be said that German patterns with English in that it al-
lows for productive, compositional and recursive nominal root compounding.
However, a distinction needs to be made between two different patterns of com-
pounding in German. In one pattern two bare lexical items are combined without
any additional inflectional material. These compounds are non-recursive, since
they do not involve any second order embedding, non-compositional and non-
productive. In fact, creatively using or forming these compounds comes much
closer to a deliberate act of coinage, just like in Romance, than to productive word-
formation so typical of Germanic languages.
The other pattern is one in which inflectional material occurs in compound
internal positions. The two inflectional markers identified are plural and genitive
markers. Wherever these markers occur, the resulting compound is compositional
and productive and allows for a whole range of different interpretations typically
identified for Germanic languages. Additionally, in those cases where more than
just two lexical items occur inside the compound and each of them bears an inflec-
tional marker, the resulting compound is also recursive and the variability in po-
tentially available interpretations does not get lost under second order embedding.
However, this does not mean that a compositional interpretation is forced. It only
means that such an interpretation is recoverable, which is not the case in those
compounds in which no inflection occurs.
Further, English, although in general not dependent on the presence or
absence of inflectional markers inside the compound, shows similar patterns.
Compositional readings may get lost when inflectional markers are lost in
certain forms and in compounds the presence of a plural marker leads to a
variety interpretation, similar to the one observed in German compounds with
plural markers.
The question that emerges from these observations is how the two patterns
of compounding are derived and what in the derivation of these two types of
compounds accounts for the observed differences. These matters are addressed
in the next sections of this chapter. It is argued that both types of compounds
are syntactically derived, however, only one of these two types of compounds
involves a Phase, which leads to the interpretational effects observed here. On
the basis of this, an account, that is in line with the SMT and that, with-
out any further stipulations, derives the differences outlined here is discussed
and defended.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
2.3	 Analyzing nominal root compounds
The data presented in the preceding chapter give rise to doubt that nominal root
compounding is parameterized across languages (or language families to be more
precise) in the way frequently described in the literature. In fact, it seems much
more plausible to assume that a concise analysis should allow for capturing the
inter-language variation observed for the German data and for the intra-language
variation described elsewhere. Such an analysis is presented here, drawing on pre-
vious analyses suggested in the literature and reconciling important observations
made there with current minimalist theorizing.
2.3.1	 The root compounding parameter and the abstract clitic hypothesis
In order to derive the difference between the Romance pattern of nominal root
compounding and the Germanic pattern, Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002: 3)
and Roeper & Snyder (2005: 160) argue for a morphological parameter. Depend-
ing on the settings for this parameter a language either allows or disallows Merge
to create SOs with the status of complex words. Exactly in those languages that
allow for productive and compositional root compounding Merge can create such
a SO. Hence, Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002: 3) postulate the following marked
morphological parameter for languages of the Germanic type:24, 25
	 (31)	 Root compounding parameter (RCP)
		 [M]erger can combine non-maximal projections.
Languages of the Romance type are specified by a negative (or default) setting for
this parameter. In consequence, Merge here cannot create a SO resulting from the
Merger of two heads. Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002: 3–4) further observe
that French and English not only pattern distinctively with respect to root com-
pounding. Building on research from language acquisition in (among others)
Snyder (1995); Snyder & Stromswold (1997); Miyoshi (1999); Slabakova (1999);
24.	 Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002) refine their assumptions more narrowly to Set-Merge
and contrast this with Pair-Merge. However, as the discussion in Chapter 1.2 has shown, the
distinction between Set-Merge and Pair-Merge needs to be rethought. Additionally, they assume
that FLN can reliably make a distinction between maximal projections and non-maximal pro-
jections which are heads. This begs the question of whether this distinction is made in rigid or
relational terms (cf. e.g. Hornstein, Nunes & Grohman 2006 for discussion). So, neither of these
assumptions is entirely unproblematic and both will be discussed extensively in the analysis
later on in this chapter, which is why I will refrain from a more detailed discussion of the impli-
cations of Roeper (et al.)’s assumptions here.
25.	 For an early version of this parameter cf. Snyder (1995: 27).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Sugisaki & Isobe (2000) they conclude that what is observed for the RCP is in fact
the manifestation of a more abstract parameter that covers all of the phenomena
exemplified by the data in (32)–(40) (cf. Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002: 4)
and Roeper & Snyder 2005: 161)).26
	 (32)	 Jack brought the vote out (verb-NP-particle construction)
	 (33)	 Jack made Ted give a speech (causative construction)
	 (34)	 Jack hammered the metal flat (resultative construction)
	 (35)	 Jack gave Vicki the flowers (double object construction)
	 (36)	 Jack put the flowers in the vase (locative construction)
	 (37)	 This candidate resonates well (middle construction)
	 (38)	 Jack jumped (over) the fence (null-P construction)
	 (39)	 Jack payed attention (bare N/V idiom)
	 (40)	 Jack saw Ted dodge (perceptual construction)
If true, and the RCP is a parameter that accounts for the availability or non-avail-
ability of all of the above mentioned constructions in a particular language, then
this is a very strong macro-parameter.27 What is striking about the constructions
in (32)–(40) though is that (maybe to the exception of middles) all of these are
rightward building, while nominal root compounds arguably are leftward building
(cf. Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu 2002: 4).
In order to uniformly account for the leftward and rightward building struc-
tures Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002) and Roeper & Snyder (2005) relate the
RCP to the Abstract Clitic Hypothesis (ACH) discussed in Keyser & Roeper
(1992):28
	 (41)	 Abstract Clitic Hypothesis (ACH)
		 All verbs in English have an invisible Clitic position that may be occupied
by particles (or other designated markers).
		 [adapted from Keyser & Roeper 1992: 91]
26.	 The examples are constructed in analogy to those provided in the literature indicated above.
27.	 In fact, the directionality of the parameter is not so clear. In Snyder (1995: 25; 1995: 29) the
parameter is presented as a bi-directional parameter, according to which the presence vs. ab-
sence of nominal root compounding and the constructions listed in (32) to (40) goes hand in
hand. In Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002: 4) on the other hand, the availability of the con-
structions in (32) to (40) is described as being sufficient for the availability of nominal root
compounding. In Roeper & Snyder (2005) in turn the availability of the constructions in (32) to
(40) seems to be a necessary condition for the availability of nominal root compounding.
28.	 For a very careful and detailed exposition of what these other very specific markers may be,
the reader is referred to the original paper. Covering the details of this analysis is orthogonal to
the discussion here and will therefore be ignored.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
It is this position that allows Keyser & Roeper (1992) to account for structures of
the following type:
	 (42)	 a.	 John wrote the paper up.
		 b.	 John wrote up the paper.
		 c.	 John rewrote the paper.
		 d.	 *John rewrote up the paper.
The particle up in (42a) and (42b) is merged in the abstract clitic position.29
Similarly, in (42c) the prefix re- is merged in the ACP and then moved to the left
by a rule of compounding that is not specified any further (cf. ibid: 100–104).30
This explains the ungrammaticality of (42d), because here the ACP is filled by
re- as in (42c), with subsequent leftward movement. As a consequence insertion
of the particle up is blocked. The structure that Keyser & Roeper (1992) suggest,
is the following:
	 (43)	
	 (44)	
Crucially, Keyser & Roeper (1992: 103) remark that LIs inserted in the ACP do not
have the status of arguments. Hence, following the assumptions in Lasnik & Saito
(1984) that non-argument traces are deletable, it is possible to reuse the ACP when
29.	 The difference between (42a) and (42b) results from verb movement. In (42a) only the verb
moves to a higher V head, while in (42b) the verb-particle complex, i.e. verb + particle in ACP
move. For the details of this analysis cf. Keyser & Roeper (1992: 110–111). For an alternative
analysis cf. Chapter 4.
30.	 Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002: 5) only remark that this type of movement is in line
with standard assumptions on movement, since it is an instance of leftward movement that
preserves the Spec-Head-Comp structure in so far as movement from the ACP to the left re-
sembles Comp-to-Spec movement.
V ACP
V
write up
V ACP
V
write re
write re
re V
V ACP
V
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
inserting material of the same type.31 This derives the form in (45) simply by merg-
ing another instance of re- in the same position:
	 (45)	 rerewrite
What is not possible though are multiple insertions of LIs into the ACP that are spec-
ified for different categories. This explains the unavailability of the form in (42d).
In sum, the ACP is characterized as a position immediately adjacent to the verb
that is not an argument position and that can host heads only. In principle, the ACP
can host heads of all sorts of categories, but once specified for one given category,
it is not possible to insert LIs of distinct categories although it is possible to multi-
ply insert LIs of the same category – provided that they move out of the ACP.
Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002) and Roeper & Snyder (2005) extend
the availability of an ACP from verbs to nouns (and potentially all lexical cat-
egories) and argue that this is the position where the RCP is manifest. Hence,
in nominal root compounding the ACP of nouns is filled by other nouns and
the structure for the compound noun coffee cup is as follows (cf. Roeper &
Snyder 2005: 154):
	 (46)	
The noun coffee fulfills all requirements of the ACP. It is a head that is not an argu-
ment of cup, and – similar to the operation that triggers movement of re- in (42c)
and (44) – movement of coffee is triggered here. Since the noun in the ACP does
not have argument status, it is also expected that it is possible to insert further LIs
31.	 Roeper & Snyder (2005: 156) use this as a crucial criterion for distinguishing nominal root
compounds from synthetic compounds. In the synthetic compound pen-holder in which pen is
generated in a position that is immediately adjacent to hold and thus in a position quite similar
to the ACP, but also reminiscent of the First Sister Position of Roeper & Siegel (1978) movement
of pen to the left of hold leaves behind a non-deletable trace, because pen is an argument of hold.
The nominalizer -er is generated on top of the verbal complex, which in turn incorporates onto
the nominalizer. So the structure is the following:
	 (i)	 [V pen [V hold] [N pen]]] → [N pen hold [N er [Vpen hold]]]

Harley (2004, 2009) arrives at basically the same structures but on the basis of somewhat differ-
ent assumptions.
N ACP
N
cup coffeeN
coffee
cup coffeeN
N N
N ACP
N
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
of the same category into the ACP, as long as they are also moved leftwards. This is
indeed the case and it is what derives the recursivity property of English nominal
root compounds (cf. Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu 2002: 7):
	 (47)	
Alternatively, the ACP can host complex heads, which allows Roeper & Snyder
(2005) to derive the following structure for the compound [[gourmet coffee] cup]
(cf. ibid: 155):
	 (48)	
Thus, relating the RCP to the ACH allows for an explanation why in English nom-
inal root compounds are compositional, productive and recursive. Since Romance
languages have a different parameter setting for the RCP, compounding via an
ACP is not an option in these languages. Indeed, Roeper & Snyder (2005: 159)
argue that compounding in Romance is a lexical rather than a syntactic process.
Roeper & Snyder (2005: 160) further argue that since the parameter is speci-
fied as a default in Romance (and many other languages of the world) what leads
to a deviance from the default parameter setting is evidence in the input of the
restaurant
coffee
N N
N N
cup coffeeN
restaurantN
N ACP
N
gourmet
coffee gourmetN
N N
N ACP
N
cup gourmet coffeeN
N ACP
N
N
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
learner. The decisive input here are recursive nominal root compounds.32 Simple
N + N compounding can also be found in Romance (cf. examples in (2) repeated
here), and thus is not evidence enough for a different parameter setting:33
	 (2)	 French:	 homme grenouille
		 Spanish:	 hombre rana
		 Italian:	 uomo rana
Roeper & Snyder (2005: 157–158) derive further evidence for a parameter associ-
ated with the ACP from the fact that Swedish, like other Germanic languages,
allows recursive and productive nominal root compounding, but only for non-
branching heads. Hence, in Swedish only root compounds of the type illustrated
in (47) for English can be formed. Inserting complex heads into the ACP, as illus-
trated in (48) for English, is not an option in this language. This is why the root
compounds in (4b) in contrast to those in (4a), repeated here for convenience,
require a compound internal LE:
	 (4)	 a.	 barn	 bok	 klub Swedish
			 child	book	club	
			 ‘book club for children’
		 b.	 barn	 boks	 klub Swedish
			 child	book-LE	club	
			 ‘children’s book club’
			 foot	 balls	 domare Swedish
			 foot	 ball-LE	referee
			 ‘soccer referee’
This suggests that at least for languages of the Germanic language family the RCP
in (31) should be reformulated along the lines of (49) (cf. also Roeper & Snyder
2002: 8):
32.	 This is an important point that should be emphasized here, because Haider (2013: 200) ar-
gues in a recent account that Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002) mark the Romance pattern as
an exception. This is clearly not the case. The Romance pattern is the basic pattern and deviation
from this pattern depends on positive evidence in the data. This may or may not lead to the
conclusion that Romance has an ACP (cf. again Haider 2013). Either Romance lacks the ACP
altogether or it just lacks the movement operation that vacates the ACP and thus allows for re-
cursivity. So, when viewed from this perspective “the onus of proof” (Haider 2013: 201) lies with
proponents that criticize the LCA based account of Roeper, Synder & Hiramatsu (2002).
33.	 Notice that this reasoning indeed strongly suggests that the directionality of the parameter is
along the lines of ‘if a language exhibits nominal root compounding then this language also exhib-
its verb-particle constructions, middles, etc.’. Only the input of recursive composition will unveil
the positive setting of the RCP and with it the availability of the constructions in (32) to (40).
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
	 (49)	 Root compounding parameter (Germanic reformulated)
		 The language {does/does not} permit branching non-maximal constitu-
ents to occupy the ACP.
The parameter-setting for Swedish then is the negative or default setting, whereas
for English the parameter is set positively. Unfortunately Roeper & Snyder (2005)
do not comment on the trigger for the parameter switch, but it is clear from the
discussion of the Swedish examples above as well as from the way the parameter is
phrased in (49) that the crucial evidence cannot be recursive embedding alone.
The child must furthermore listen for recursive embedding of complex yet non-
maximal structures.34
This parameter-setting is summarized in (50) below:
	 (50)	
The question that now emerges is how the German compounds described in
Section 2.2 fit into this analysis. This question is addressed in the next section.
2.3.2	 Towards an analysis of the German data
Bauke (2009) argues that given the analysis presented in Roeper, Snyder &
Hiramatsu (2002) and Roeper & Snyder (2005) it is expected that German nomi-
nal root compounds, also feature an ACP. In fact a compound like e.g. Länderspiel
in (5d) can be derived along the following lines:
	 (51)	
34.	 This alone is a complicated task and it leaves open the question of how the other construc-
tions that presumably fall under this parameter fit into the picture.
Root compounding parameter
– ACP
Romance
+ ACP
Germanic
– Complex ACP
Swedish
+ Complex ACP
English
Länder
spiel
N N
N ACP
LänderN
N
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Recursion is also unproblematic. Just like in English, Länder in German is not an
argument of the noun Spiel. This implies that the trace is deletable and the ACP is
open for LIs with the same category specification, i.e. other nouns. Recursive com-
pounds, like the ones listed in (25), are then derived in the same fashion as the
English recursive compounds in (47) and (48). Indeed, both options are available
in German as is shown in the structures below:
	 (52)	
So, in principle, nominal root compounds in German can be derived along the
same line as their English counterparts, which is a desirable result. This, however,
brings up the question how the distinction between those German compounds
that have a compositional and recursive reading and those that lack this interpre-
tational possibility can be explained. Bauke (2009) argues that those compounds
that lack compound-internal inflectional markers do not involve an ACP. Instead,
they are derived in the lexicon, just like their French counterparts (cf. Roeper &
Snyder 2005: 159), by the combination of two roots.
Based on the distinction between lexical and syntactic processes already laid out
in Chomsky (1970) and most recently discussed e.g. in Lieber (2005) and Scalise &
Guevara (2005), according to which the lexicon is the place for idiosyncrasies, while
syntax is completely regular, it seems only natural to assign the formation of those
compounds that have a drifted and lexicalized meaning to the lexicon, while main-
taining a syntactic account for the compositional and productive compounds. As-
suming further that the lexicon feeds syntax, it should also be possible, to insert LIs
that are the result of a process of lexical word-formation into the ACP in order to
derive a compositional compound. This is what applies to the compound in (53):
	 (53)	
Kinder
tassen
N N
N N
motiv tassenN
KinderN
N ACP
N
a.
wald
N N
N ACP
Str.schilderN
N
Straßen
N N
schilder StraßenN
N ACP
b.
P.karten
motiv PostkartenN
N N
N ACP
N
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
Here the noun Postkarte, which does not contain any compound internal inflec-
tional material and is thus derived in the lexicon by combining the two roots Post
and Karte, is inserted into the ACP of the noun Motiv followed by the usual step of
subsequent leftward movement. Hence, the processes of word-formation in the
lexicon and word-formation in syntax can be combined, with lexical word-forma-
tion feeding syntactic word-formation.35
Under the assumption that the product of syntactic word-formation is stored
in the lexicon as well (in contrast to syntactic operations that derive structures
larger than words), it should also be expected to find cases where a syntactically
derived word can participate in lexical word-formation. The example Kindergar-
tenstuhl in (23) is a case in point. By virtue of the inflectional marker on Kinder,
the compound Kindergarten can be derived via the ACP and the alternative read-
ings listed in (22b) further underline that this is the correct assumption. As has
been pointed out in Chapter 2.2, however, in the compound Kindergartenstuhl,
the per se compositional and productive compound Kindergarten can only be
interpreted as ‘kindergarten’. This follows naturally from the analysis discussed
here: if the lexicalized meaning of Kindergarten is what is stored in the lexicon,
then only this meaning should be readily accessible for lexical word-formation.
Alternatively, of course the noun Gartenstuhl can be derived by a process of lexi-
cal word-formation, i.e. by combining the roots Garten and Stuhl. The noun
Kinder can then be inserted in the ACP of this lexically derived word and thus
lead to the alternative interpretations listed in (23). The two alternatives are il-
lustrated in (54a) and (54b):
	 (54)	
So, the compound in (54a) contains a compositional compound derived in syntax.
The result of this process of word-formation is stored in the lexicon and as such
the product of syntactic word-formation can feed lexical word-formation. In (54b)
instead lexical word-formation, which is the result of combining two roots, pre-
cedes syntactic word-formation.
35.	 In fact, we will see below that the distinction between syntactic and lexical word formation
can be done away with and that all word formation can be accounted for in syntax.
K.garten
stuhl
N N
N ACP
KindergartenN
N
a.
Kinder
gartenstuhl
N N
N ACP
KinderN
N
b.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Taking the properties of the ACP pointed out in Keyser & Roeper (1992), and
in Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002) and Roeper & Snyder (2005) for nouns seri-
ously corroborates a division along the lines described here. According to the anal-
ysis provided by Roeper & Snyder (2005) the ACP can arguably be filled by all sorts
of categorized LIs. Crucially, however, once an already categorized LI has been in-
serted into the ACP and has been moved to the left without leaving a trace, the
ACP can only host LIs with the same category specification. This, in turn, presup-
poses that it is exactly those LIs that are specified for a category that are inserted
into the ACP. Hence, roots, which lack this category specification, cannot be in-
serted into the ACP. Consider in this context the pattern illustrated in (55)–(59):
	 (55)	 a.	 Nashorn German
			 nose.root + horn
			 ‘rhinoceros’
		 b.	 Nasenrücken German
			 nose.pl + back
			 ‘bridge of the nose’
			 or ‘nose on the back
			 of e.g. a genetically
			 manipulated mouse’, etc.
	 (56)	 a.	 Augapfel German
			 eye.root + apple
			 ‘eyeball’
		 b.	 Augenlicht German
			 eye.pl + light
			 ‘eyesight’ or ‘light
			 the doctor uses for
			 eye-exams’, etc.
	 (57)	 a.	 Münztelefon German
			 coin.root + telephone
			 ‘payphone’
		 b.	 Münzenschrank German
			 coin.pl + cabinet
			 ‘coin cabinet’ or
			 ‘cabinet with coin
			 ornaments’, etc.
	 (58)	 a.	 Kirchturm German
			 church.root + tower
			 ‘spire’
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
		 b.	 Kirchenkreis German
			 church.pl + circle
			 ‘chruch district’ or
			 ‘churches standing in
			 a circle’, etc.
	 (59)	 a.	 Sprachdefizit German
			 language.root + deficit
			 ‘language deficit’
		 b.	 Sprachenschule German
			 language.pl + school
			 ‘language school’ or
			 ‘school that focuses on
			 languages (in contrast to
			 e.g. natural sciences)’, etc.
As expected, all the examples in (55a)–(59a), which are clearly the result of com-
bining two roots have just one fixed and lexicalized interpretation. The examples
in (55b)–(59b), however, which contain a fully inflected and categorized LI, which
is thus eligible for ACP insertion, all have a preferred interpretation which may or
may not be lexicalized and fixed. What is unquestionable though is that they ad-
ditionally allow for alternative interpretations, which puts them in stark contrast
with the (a) examples.
One additional piece of data that fits well into the current picture is the one
below:
	 (60)	 Werwolf German
		 Wer.root + Wolf
		 ‘werewolf’
Just like in the (a)-examples above the compound consists of a root that is com-
bined with another root. There is no compound internal inflectional material.
Thus, it is not expected that this LI has any alternative interpretations. Addition-
ally, the meaning of the compound is not compositional. In fact, the root wer is
rather an empty morpheme that is combined with a second morpheme here and
the result of this combination is a compound with a fixed, lexicalized and highly
idiosyncratic meaning. Just as is expected from this type of compound.36 Thus, the
36.	 Cf. also Haider (2013) in this context, who acknowledges that the meaning differences in
compounding are a reflection of the internal (syntactic) structure of the word. In Haider’s analy-
sis, however, the fine grained distinctions between compositional and non-compositional read-
ings cannot be derived (cf. also the comments on head-directionality below).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
analysis presented here has the potential of providing a meaningful analysis of so-
called cranberry morphemes (cf. Spencer 1991: 40).
In sum, assuming that in German two processes of word-formation are at
work, one syntactic and one lexical, which may interact with one another37 and
further assuming that the syntactic word-formation process is subject to a positive
setting of the RCP, which in turn makes the ACP available, allows us to capture the
distinctions observed in Chapter 2.2 quite accurately. However, a number of ques-
tions remains:
1.	 Why is it that involvement of the ACP leads to the observed interpretational
effects?
2.	 Why do the elements ‘inserted’ into the ACP move leftwards?
3.	 How can ‘insertion into the ACP’ be accounted for under a BPS account in
line with the SMT and the assumptions on Merge discussed in Chapter 1?
4a.	 How is the interaction between syntactic and lexical word-formation processes
accounted for and what distinguishes these two processes language internally?
4b.	 What are the properties of the parameter (if any)?
All of these questions will be addressed in the next sections.
2.3.3	 Syntactic and lexical word-formation?
The discussion of the structures for the two types of nominal root compounds
above suggests that two processes of word-formation need to be distinguished.
One is lexical and one is syntactic. What is not clear though is how these two pro-
cesses interact or whether there is parametric variation at work here at all. Addi-
tionally, the technicalities of the syntactic approach are far from settled. The first
set of questions to be addressed here is the one listed last in the preceding section,
i.e. how the interaction between syntactic and lexical word-formation processes
can be accounted for and whether there is any motivation for a parameter along
the lines described in Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002) and Roeper & Snyder
(2005). So let us start with the question in 4b first.
The German data discussed here strongly suggest that a RCP along the lines
suggested in Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002) and Roeper & Snyder (2005) is
too broad. Some nominal root compounds in German behave more like
their Romance counterparts while others show the characteristics typically as-
cribed to compounds in Germanic languages: recursivity, compositionality and
37.	 Cf. Giegerich (1999; 2004; 2009) for some non-committal thoughts on the role of syntax-
lexicon interaction in compounding that go into the same direction.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
productiveness.38 Similarly, a language internal distinction for Swedish is neces-
sary. However, the distinction in Swedish seems to be guided by principles other
than those that apply in German.
And things do not stop here either. When examining the correlation expressed
in the root compounding parameter in Snyder (1995) and Roeper & Snyder (2005)
it should be expected that Romance languages do not display any of the construc-
tions in (32)–(40). Otherwise, the RCP predicts that these languages also show
productive, recursive and compositional patterns of nominal root compounding.
However, counterevidence is not hard to come by. In a recent paper Mateu & Rigau
(2010: 243) argue that verb-particle constructions exist in Italian.
	 (61)	 a.	 Gianni	 è	 corso	 via. Italian
			 Gianni	 is	run	 away
			 ‘Gianni ran away’.
		 b.	 *Gianni	è	 danzato	via. Italian.
			 Gianni	is	danced	 away
			 ‘Gianni danced away’. [Mateu & Rigau 2010: 243]
Mateu & Rigau (2010: ibid) point out that the verb-particle construction in (61a)
is perfectly licit in Italian when the verb already involves directionality, which is
only further specified by the particle. Thus, the path-encoding verb correre (‘to
run’) is available for a verb-particle construction. The verb danzare (‘to dance’) in
(61b), however, encodes manner rather than a path. Hence, the particle does not
only specify directionality further, rather it introduces directionality. This, how-
ever, is not licit in Italian as the ungrammaticality of the example illustrates. It is
far from clear, how this can be integrated into the parameter.
Note further that verb-particle constructions are by no means limited to unac-
cusative constructions like the ones in (61). Transitive constructions like the one
in (62) are likewise fine:
	 (62)	 a.	 Gianni	 ha	 buttato	 via	 il	 libro. Italian
			 Gianni	 has	 thrown	away	 the	 book
			 ‘Gianni has thrown the book away’.
		 b.	 Gianni	 ha	 caciatto	 via	 due	raggazi. Italian
			 Gianni	 has	 sent	 away	 two	boys
			 ‘Gianni has sent away two boys’.
38.	 Arguably, Romance languages also exhibit a very productive, compositional and recursive
pattern of compounding that is manifest in phrasal compounds: tasse à café (French), taza de
caé (Spanish), tazza da caffé (Italian).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
		 c.	 Gianni	 ha	 condotto	 via	 due	raggaze. Italian
			 Gianni	 has	 led	 away	 two	girls
			 ‘Gianni has led two girls away’.
This clearly shows that Italian verb-particle constructions are perfectly licit
(cf. also Iacobini & Masini 2007 for a similar conclusion). Thus, the pattern that
emerges for this type of construction in Italian is similar to the pattern found in
nominal root compounding in German. Grammatical verb-particle constructions
exist alongside ungrammatical forms. This further undermines the assumption
that there exists a single parameter that accounts for all of these constructions
and that can be cut along the distinction between Romance vs. Germanic lan-
guage families.
Similarly, Cuervo (2007: 587–8) shows that in Spanish a distinction should be
made between prepositional constructions on the one hand and clitic doubling
constructions on the other. Examples of both are provided in (63):
	 (63)	 a.	 Emilio	 entregó	 el	 informe	a	 Andreína. Spanish
			 Emilio	 handed	 the	 report	 to	 Andreína
			 ‘Emilio gave the report to Andreína’.
		 b.	 Emilio	 le	 entregó	 el	 informe	a	 Andreína. Spanish
			 Emilio	 CL	handed	 the	 report	 to	 Andreína
			 ‘Emilio gave Andreína the report’. [Cuervo 2007; 587–8]
Cuervo argues that despite their surface similarity a distinction between the prep-
ositional construction in (63a) and the clitic doubling construction in (63b) is
necessary and analyzes the a in (63a) as a real preposition, whereas the a in (63b)
is analyzed as a dative marker. Thus, the structure in (63b) is identified as a dative
alternation construction in Spanish, in which the clitic-doubled dative variant cor-
responds to double object constructions of the RECIPIENT – THEME type that
can be found e.g. in English. Cuervo provides the data in (64) to show that a in
(63b) is really just a case marker, whereas a in (59/63a) is a preposition:
	 (64)	 a.	 Emilio	 puso	 azúcar	en	 el	 café. Spanish
			 Emilio	 put	 sugar	 in	 the	 coffee
			 ‘Emilio put sugar in the coffee’.
		 b.	 Emilio	 le	 puso	 azúcar	al	 café. Spanish
			 Emilio	 CL	put	 sugar	 in.the	coffee
			 ‘Emilio put sugar in the coffee’.
		 c.	 *Emilio	 le	 puso	 azúcar	en/para/de	café. Spanish
			 Emilio	 CL	put	 sugar	 in.the	 coffee
			 ‘Emilio put sugar in the coffee’.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
Whereas the preposition in (63a) can easily be replaced by another preposition in
(64a), this is not the case in (63b). Here only the dative marker is licit (cf. 64b) and
all other prepositions result in ungrammaticality (cf. 64c).
So again, the pattern that emerges here is one in which a Romance language
– which under the set-up of the RCP in Snyder (1995) and Roeper & Snyder (2005)
should not exhibit double object constructions at all – displays two patterns for
double object constructions that cannot be easily integrated into the analysis. This
strongly suggests that a reformulation of the RCP that is compatible with the at-
tested data is warranted. Before tackling the specifics of such a reformulation, ul-
timately in micro-parametric terms, let us proceed with the questions listed under
4a in the preceding section.
As has been pointed out before, Chomsky (1970) (cf. also Chomsky 1995a: 235
& 241 for basically the same argument) argues that the lexicon is the place for id-
iosyncrasies, while all regular operations are part of syntax proper. Hence, it seems
only natural to accommodate the distinction between compositional and produc-
tive vs. non-compositional and non-productive compounds along these very same
lines. Borer (1984) further argues that all parametric variation can be relegated to
the lexicon. This assumption, however, is at odds with the route taken in Roeper
& Snyder (2005) and Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (and many others before them),
where it is a deviance from the default parameter setting that opens up the possi-
bilities for syntactic compounding.
A further complication comes from the fact that in German apparently syn-
tactic word-formation and lexical word-formation can feed one another.39 Why
then is this not an option in Romance? Or to be more precise, why is it impossible
in Romance languages for a lexicalized compound to be the input for a further step
of lexical compounding just like German Kindbettfieber or the other examples
listed in (24)? And why is it that Swedish is sensitive to the complexity of the mate-
rial taking part in syntactic compounding, i.e. why does the ACP in this language
host simple heads only? All these questions shed some doubt on the overall valid-
ity of the assumption that syntactic and lexical word-formation can be separated
along the lines suggested in Section 2.3.2.
An alternative that I would like to explore here is to assume that both types of
compounds are derived in syntax and basically under the same operations (cf. also
Haider 2013 for an alternative approach that shares this basic underlying assump-
tion). The observed differences then result from differences in the ‘material’
39.	 This possibility seems counterintuitive to many and is probably biased by ideas of level-
ordered morphology (cf. e.g. Scalise 1986: 85–90), but is not completely unprecedented in more
recent analyses (cf. e.g. Starke’s (2010) account on nano-syntax). In fact, even in some strictly
lexicalist approaches such an interaction can be found (cf. e.g. Levin & Rappaport’s (1986) anal-
ysis of adjectival passives).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
involved in the derivation. Let me clarify: Chomsky (1995a: 235–236) admits that
minimalist theory as outlined in the Minimalist Program “ha[s] little to say about
the lexicon”, but assumes that LIs listed in the lexicon are minimally and maxi-
mally specified for lexical category.40 So, for the LI book, which Chomsky chooses
as an example, he assumes that the category specification N is all that the LI is
specified for in the lexicon. Hence, LIs are listed in the lexicon without any speci-
fication for Case or φ-features. These are added either in the Numeration or in the
course of the derivation.41
Almost simultaneously, based on investigations into the nature of thematic
relations and their role in syntax Hale & Keyser (1992; 1993; 2002) suggest that
theta-roles are likewise not encoded in the lexicon. Instead, they can be read off
the syntactic structure. Following this line of reasoning, a number of researchers,
most notably Marantz (2001; 2007) and Borer (2003; 2005a;b) but also Harley
(2004; 2009) and many others,42 argue that categorial specification is not contained
in the specification of an LI either. Instead, LIs enter the derivation as uncatego-
rized roots and category membership is determined on the basis of the functional
structure under which these roots are embedded.
So, what is standardly identified as V in most contexts is in fact not a V in and
of itself. It is a root that is categorized as V by virtue of being embedded under v,
which is the categorizing head:43
40.	 Just to be totally explicit here. Chomsky in this context is talking about lexical items, of
course. This will be of uttermost importance for the distinction between functional and lexical or
substantive lexemes, which is discussed below. Functional lexemes will turn out to be the catego-
rizing elements here, which thus also contain a category specification themselves. Substantive
lexemes instead are listed simply as roots, i.e. without any additional categorial specification.
41.	 In fact, Chomsky limits these assumptions to optional features but later concedes that the
“intrinsic-optional distinction plays virtually no role” (1995a: 277) and is of rather “informal
descriptive usage” (ibid). Thus, we can afford to ignore it here, especially since it plays virtually
no role in Chomsky’s later papers.
42.	 I take this list to indicate that assumptions of this kind are not owned by proponents of Dis-
tributed Morphology. What I would like to endorse with the assumptions outlined here is what is
referred to as the ‘single-engine hypothesis’, (cf. Marantz 2001: 8; Hauser, Chomsky & Fitch 2002;
Barrie 2010: 4 as well as Boeckx 2010a: 19) according to which there is no pre-syntactic level of
grammar that roughly corresponds to morphology. So, I subscribe to the ‘syntax all the way
down’ view of Distributed Morphology, though not necessarily to the assumption of a distributed
lexicon. In fact, I remain agnostic to this latter question throughout the analysis presented here.
43.	 I gloss over a number of details here. One, admittedly quite crucial one is, why the √P can
take a DP as a complement. Since the answer to this question is not related to the issues ad-
dressed here, I will, however ignore it. Cf. e.g. Marantz (1997; 2001; 2007); Harley & Noyer
(1999); Harley (2004; 2009); Embick & Marantz (2008) for answers to this and other questions
as well as the discussion in Chapters 3 and 4.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
	 (65)	
Marantz (2001) (among others) extends this analysis to all LIs, thus arguing that
roots are categorized as nominal, when embedded under a nominalizing n-head
and as adjectival, when categorized under the appropriate a-head, etc.
When applying these assumptions to the structures analyzed here, the fol-
lowing picture emerges: Those nominal root compounds that contain inflection-
al markers inside the compound are the product of Merger of a categorized LI
with another categorized LI – (of which one categorized LI possibly may be
merged in the ACP of the other). Those compounds that do not feature any com-
pound internal inflectional material are the product of the Merger of two uncat-
egorized roots.
So, in the first case the two roots are taken from the lexicon or Numeration
and are merged with categorizing little n-heads first. Only then a second Merge
operation combines these two already categorized LIs. In the second case, in con-
trast, the two uncategorized roots are taken directly from the lexicon or Numera-
tion and are combined by Merge. The product of this Merger is only thereafter
merged to a categorizing little n-head. Now the question that emerges is, how these
two Merge operations can be motivated. The answer to this question I would like
to suggest, and which is also (at least in part) an answer to the third question posed
at the end of the preceding chapter, is as follows.
Let’s start with the scenario in which the two roots are independently merged
with a categorizing head first. The discussion on Merge in Chapter 1 has illustrated
that the only prerequisite for Merge is that the LIs that partake in the operation are
equipped with EFs (cf. also Chomsky 2008; Narita 2011 and others). This is the
most simple and minimal conception of Merge conceivable. When applying this
reasoning to the situation at hand, the following picture emerges: some root α is
merged with a categorizing n-head and some root β is also merged with another
categorizing n-head:44
44.	 Notice that under this approach the ordering independence of Merge can be maintained.
So far nothing hinges on the ordering relation between the root and the categorizing head. This
can still (pace e.g. Kayne 1994 and Haider 2013) be determined at the interfaces and need not be
encoded in narrow syntax.
kiss
√ DP
the girl
√P
kiss
v √P (=VP)
√(=V) DP
the girl
vʹ
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	 (66)	
By assumption α and β do not have any φ-features (cf. e.g. Chomsky 1995a; Boeckx
2008a: 75). These are brought into the derivation by the categorizing head (cf. also
Zhang 2007). For Merge to be possible the root LIs and the categorizing func-
tional items both just need to be specified for EFs (as in Chomsky 2008: 139).45
To see why this is the case, recall from the discussion in Chapter 1 that EFs are
a prerequisite for Merge regardless of any other featural specifications. Hence,
even those LIs that lack additional features still need to be specified for EFs, since
this is the key that allows LIs to be combined with other LIs or already created SOs
(SOs, by assumption, not having EFs). The question that could be asked here is,
whether it does not suffice, if just one of the two Merge partners is specified for
EFs, though, since they are both heads coming from the lexicon, hence either of
them being an LI.
Well, first of all, it is not clear, under which conditions the root or the n-head
can then enter the derivation at all (cf. Chomsky 2008), but one possible objection
might be that the root does not need to have an EF, because it might enter the
derivation from a storage different from the one for the categorizing head, as is
standardly assumed in theories of distributed morphology (cf. e.g. Harley & Noyer
1999; Embick & Noyer 2007 for detailed exposition). However, under this line of
reasoning a problem arises in standard derivations for all transitive verb structures.
Given that V is nothing but a root, it is not clear how this root can then Merge with
a DP object, which is a SO lacking an EF.46 This should be reason enough to assume
that roots have EFs (cf. Boeckx 2008a: 78 for a similar conclusion).
Could it then be, that the categorizing heads do not have EFs? The answer here
is clearly a no. Again, a simple look at the most standard derivations in the verbal
domain suffice to prove the point. Little v is one of the categorizing little x-heads
that Marantz (2001) assumes. If this head did not have an EF it is again unclear
how it could be merged to the rootP/VP derived so far:
45.	 As we will see in Chapter 4, for Merger to take place it would actually suffice if just one of
the two elements were equipped with an EF (cf. in particular the discussion of the H-α schema
in Chapter 4 and in Narita 2011). However, independent reasons discussed immediately below
lead us to the conclusion that in the case at hand both LIs, i.e. the root and the categorizing little
x-head are specified for EFs.
46.	 Again, I ignore the selectional restrictions that allow for the Merger of the DP object here,
because these are not immediately relevant to the discussion. Note though, that a Self-Merge
or Empty-Set-Merge analysis, as discussed and discarded in Chapter 1 does not solve the prob-
lem either.
nEF
√αEF
nEF
√βEF
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
	 (67)	
There is simply no way in which the v-head could be merged to the SO which is the
√P (or VP), which does not have any EFs itself (cf. Narita (2009; 2011) for illumi-
nating discussion of the role of EFs in vP).
So, both Merge items are specified for EFs and thus fulfill the minimal and
most economic requirements for Merge. Notice though, that this clearly makes the
option of merging two roots available. If roots have EFs (and arguably no other
features), it is perfectly natural that two of them can be combined by Merge:
	 (68)	
This is the second scenario described above, i.e. the structure for the compounds
without inflectional markers. If roots do not have any other feature specifications,
it is completely expected that inflectional material does not occur.
Zhang (2007) provides an interesting analysis of Chinese compounds in this
context. Chinese has a productive pattern of compounding that derives exocentric
compounds of the following type (cf. Huang 1998; Zhang 2007: 172):
	 (69)	 a.	 yi	 ben	xiao-shu Chinese
			 one	cl	 small-say
			 ‘a novel’
		 b.	 yi	 ge	 kai-guan Chinese
			 one	cl	 open-close	
			 ‘a switch’
		 c.	 zhe	 zhang	 zhouzi	 de	 da-xia Chinese
			 this	cl	 table	 mod	 big-small	
			 ‘the size of this table’
In the examples in (69) a compound noun is derived by what looks like the merg-
er of an adjective and a verb in (69a), of two verbs in (69b) and two adjectives in
(69c). Zhang (2007) argues convincingly pace previous analyses that this is not an
instance of an exocentric compound.47 Instead, Chinese compounds of the type
illustrated above are analyzed as the product of the Merger of two uncategorized
47.	 Cf. Zhang (2007: 173–177) for more on the diagnostics of these compounds.
vEF
√P /VP
√EF
DP
vP
√αEF
√βEF
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
roots, which are subsequently merged with a categorizing functional head (cf. ibid:
177–178). Since roots do not bear neither categorial nor syntactic features of any
sort, none of the two roots projects, it is not possible to move any of the two roots
and none of the two roots can be assigned neither case nor a thematic role. So the
structure that Zhang (2007: 177) assumes for these compounds is as follows:
	 (70)	
The similarities to the structure in (68) are immediately apparent.
Zhang further argues that Chinese breakable compounds are an instance of two
different types of Merge. Breakable compounds are expressions that have an identi-
cal phonological form but can be interpreted either as a word or as a phrase de-
pending on context (cf. 2007: 179). The following sequence is an example for that:
	 (71)	 dan	 xin Chinese
		 carry	 heart
		 ‘worry’
This compound follows the pattern of exocentric compounds described above.
What looks like a transitive verb is merged with a noun to derive another com-
pound verb. Zhang (2007: 180) shows that this verb can still take a DP argument.
Hence, xin does not act as an argument of dan.
	 (72)	 Ta	hen	 dan	 xin	 zhe	 jian	shi. Chinese
		 he	very	carry	heart	this	cl	 matter
		 ‘He is very worried about this matter’.
Furthermore, xin cannot be extracted (cf. ibid):
	 (73)	 *Xin,	 wo	yi-dian	dou	bu	 dan	 zhe	 jian	shi. Chinese
		 heart,	I	 one-bit	all	 not	carry	this	cl	 matter
		 ‘I don’t worry about this matter’.
So this compound shows all the characteristics of those compounds that are the
product of the Merger of two roots.
Alternatively, however, the sequence dan xin can also be interpreted as a phrase
with basically the same meaning (and intonation):
	 (74)	 Ta	dan	 xin. Chinese
		 he	carry	heart
		 ‘He was worried’.
n
n
√root1+2
√root1
√root2
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
Here, however, xin can be analyzed as an argument of dan and as such can also be
extracted (cf. Zhang 2007: 180–181):
	 (75)	 Xin,	 wo	yi-dian	dou	bu	 dan. Chinese
		 heart,	I	 one-bit	all	 not	carry	
		 ‘I am not worried at all’.
Zhang (2007: 181–182) argues that the LIs dan and xin are not merged as roots but
as categorized elements, following the usual patterns of phrase structure. So, the
Chinese breakable compounds seem to exhibit a pattern similar to the one dis-
cussed here for the two types of German compounds. One is the product of Merg-
er of two uncategorized roots and the other is the product of Merger of already
categorized elements. In essence, what Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002) and
Roeper & Snyder (2005) describe as insertion into the ACP can then be reformu-
lated as Merger of a categorized root with another categorized root.
2.3.4	 Phases and the SMT: Towards explaining interface effects
Up to now, three of the questions addressed at the end of Chapter 2.3.2 have been
answered. What is still not entirely clear though is, how the interpretational differ-
ences between the two types of German compounds described in 2.2 can be ex-
plained, i.e. the answer to question 1. To recap, the difference between the two
types of compounds is related to a difference in what the syntactic operation Merge
operates on. In one case it is roots which do not have any features other than EFs,
in the other it is categorized LIs, which also have EFs, at least a categorial feature
and possibly also φ-features.
So what we have here is strongly reminiscent of what we expect to find given
the SMT: Language is an optimal solution to interface legibility conditions and
Merge here operates on elements that are minimally distinct, but, still, a clear in-
terpretational effect emerges.
Marantz48 (2007: 4–5) argues that all categorizing little x-heads are Phase-
heads and proposes a distinction between two types of word-formation, which –
following a distinction made in Dubinsky and Simango (1996) – he describes as
inner and outer morphology. Inner morphology here is morphology attached to a
root prior to the Merger of this particular root with a categorizing little x-head,
which, as Marantz notes, goes along with special form and special meaning (2007:
5). Outer morphology, in contrast, is all morphology that attaches above a catego-
rizing little x-head. This type of morphology is characterized by predictable form
48.	 Marantz’ proposal is similar in spirit to the one suggested in Hale & Keyser (2002) and
further executed in Ramchand (2008).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
and predictable meaning (cf. ibid). In essence, Marantz here captures what is tra-
ditionally identified as the syntax-lexicon distinction, described in Chomsky
(1970) and Wassow (1977), as a purely syntax-internal distinction, which elimi-
nates the need to make recourse to lexical word-formation in a separate pre-­
syntactic component.
Marantz further argues that roots, since they never constitute a Phase, are
never interpreted independently. Thus, a categorizing head, which constitutes a
Phase, is therefore the first possible point for interpretation. So, in essence a cate-
gorizing head can be merged to a root (which may or may not contain inner
morphology)49 or it can be merged to an already categorized lexical item. In the
former case there will be just one word-internal Phase, in the latter there will be
two (cf. Marantz 2007: 5–6).
This is exactly the situation we find for the German nominal root compounds
under the analysis presented in Chapter 2.3.3. When two roots are merged, which is
possible by virtue of their EFs, the resulting piece of structure will not be sent to the
interfaces, because no Phase-head has been merged. Instead, the structure will re-
main in the derivation awaiting further Merge operations. Only when a categorizing
little n-head is merged on top of this structure, which contains the two roots, will the
Phase-head trigger Spell-Out. At this point, an independent meaning realization of
the two previously merged roots is not possible, due to the absence of categorial
features or φ-features on either one of them. The result is a compound with a fixed
‘lexicalized’50, 51 interpretation that does not show any compound internal inflec-
tional marking precisely because there is no compound internal categorizing head
to which inflectional markers can attach. Quite simply put, there is no nominal
49.	 I will ignore this possibility in the remainder of the discussion, since German nominal root
compounds, to which this analysis will be applied immediately below, do not feature inner mor-
phology (cf. Dubinski & Simango 1996 and Marantz 2007 for examples with inner morphology).
It is worth noticing though, that under the analysis that Marantz suggests, inner morphology is
always limited to the layer that is merged immediately on top of the root and below the first
categorizing node – regardless of the total number of categorizing nodes.
50.	 I will refrain from characterizing the lexicalization process in detail. It should, however, be
clear that lexicalization and drift is always a possibility. The discussion of the German data in the
preceding chapters has shown that this drift can affect the LIs entering into the composition
process as well as the output. In both cases lexicalization operates on LIs that are roots. This
means that lexicalization does not operate on syntactic features, simply because there are not
any available, as they are introduced into the derivation only at later stages. However, lexical
semantic or conceptual features are likely candidates for the operation (cf. also Borer 2005a;b for
a conception of the lexicon that is very similar to the picture sketched here).
51.	 A similar situation might occur in idioms, where the internal structure of the idiom is also
non-compositional in pretty much the same sense that the internal structure of a root + root
compound is. However, I will leave the vast field of idioms aside for future research at this point.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
inflectional morphology inside these compounds, simply because there is no noun
in these compounds to which this morphology could be attached. (Remember that
the (a)-forms in (55)–(59) were just roots). So the structure is the following:
	 (76)	
In the alternative derivation root α is first merged with a categorizing n-head. This
head is a Phase-head so the structure resulting from this Merger operation is sent
to Spell-Out and is interpreted at the interfaces. The Phase-head has a categorial
feature and corresponding φ-features, which are interpreted at the interfaces.52
Root β is also merged with a categorizing n-head first. Again, the structural com-
plex is sent to the interfaces and is interpreted at LF and PF. So now there are two
categorized (and interpreted) heads in the derivation, which both have EFs (cf. the
analysis in the preceding section). These two LIs are merged, ultimately creating a
compound with the structure in (77):
	 (77)	
Due to the fact that both LIs forming the compound are categorized and contain
φ-features which are interpreted upon Spell-Out, the compound internal LI can
bear nominal inflectional morphology of the kind illustrated in 2.2 and is inter-
preted independently. This independent interpretation is what leads to the large
variety of alternative interpretations observed in German nominal root com-
pounds with compound internal inflectional markers.
Three things still remain unclear given the analysis above:
A:	 It is not clear which of the elements projects in (76) and (77), i.e. is it the left
or the right root or n-node that is projected, or is the root or n-node an exo-
centric node?
B:	 It is not clear, which φ-features play a role in (77), i.e. are they valued or unval-
ued and which of the set of features that nominals exhibit are they and what is
the role of case?
52.	 For more on what these features are and how they are interpreted cf. below.
nEF
n
√
√αEF
√βEF
n
n
n
nEF
√βEF
nEF
√αEF
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
C:	 How can the two SOs in (77) be merged at all? Prima facie none of them seems
to have an EF, thus violating the condition for Merger (cf. Chomsky 2008;
Narita 2011; and others).
All of these issues are addressed in the remainder of this chapter. Let me start with
the question in C first. The answer to this is the shortest and most straightforward
answer. To see how Merger of the two SOs headed by n is possible let me present
the two derivations discussed above in a step by step fashion. The derivation in
(76) proceeds in the following steps:
	 (78)	 Step 1: Merger of root α and root β via the EFs on α and β.
		
		 Step 2: Merger of n to the SO via the EF on n:
		
This is the unproblematic case. The more interesting case is the one in (71/79),
which is the derivation for (77):
	 (79)	 Step 1: Merger of root α with n via the EFs on α and Phase-head n and	
Merger of root β via the EFs on β and Phase-head n.
		
		 Step 2: Spell-Out of the complement domains of the respective Phase-
heads:
		 nEF	 nEF
		 Step 3: Merger of the two n-heads via their EFs:
		
Step 3 is the crucial step here. Assuming that both Phase-heads have spelled-out
their complement domains, all that is left are the two ns. Each of these two LIs
√αEF
√βEF
n
√αEF
√βEF
nEF
SO
nEF
√αEF
nEF
√βEF
nEF
nEF
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
still has EFs (plus additional φ-features) and these are accessible again. Thus, it is
still possible to Merge the two ns simply by making use of the EFs they are speci-
fied for. So, the structure in (77) is just a summary of the derivational steps in (79)
and there is no sense in which the two SOs that are derived in Step 1 of (79) actu-
ally merge, hence there is also no violation of the requirement on Merge laid out
in Chomsky (2008); Narita (2011) and others that Merge must proceed via (at
least one LI with) an EF.53 So let us now turn to the two remaining questions
listed above.
Notice, that the answer to the issue addressed in A) is related to the answer to
the second question at the end of Chapter 2.3.2 of what triggers leftward move-
ment in compounds with an ACP.
Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002: 5) simply assume that all movement is left-
ward universally. Further, they distinguish between leftward head-movement,
which is incorporation and movement of a maximal projection, which is a form of
topicalization (cf. ibid: 8).54 Given that the ACP can be filled with heads only
(cf. Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu 2002; Roeper & Snyder 2005),55 the leftward move-
ment in the nominal root compounds in German should result in incorporation.
53.	 For a more thorough discussion of this cf. Chapter 1 and the discussion of Narita (2011) in
Chapter 4.
54.	 Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002: 8) provide the following examples to illustrate the point:
	 (i)	 the house I love	 vs	 *house I love
	 (ii)	 I am house-loving	 vs	 *I am the house loving

The DP the house can only be moved leftwards via topicalization. Incorporating onto the subject
results in ungrammaticality. The bare N house in (ii) instead can only be moved leftwards via
incorporation onto the verb. This is an option not available for DPs, as the ungrammaticality of
the example in (ii) illustrates.
55.	 Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002: 8) provide the tests in (i) and (ii) below, illustrating that
that maximal projections cannot be inserted into the ACP. The assumption that the ACP cannot
host maximal projections in nominal root compounds is a significant deviation from the origi-
nal analysis of the ACP in Keyser & Roeper (1992), where the ACP could also host maximal
projections.
	 (i)	 inavailability of overt functional heads:
		 *elephant [the hide] wallet; *elephant hide [the wallet]
	 (ii)	 inavailability of compound internal modifiers:
		 *restaurant [good coffee] cup

However, under a BPS account, with a relational definition of maximal categories these diagnos-
tics are obsolete. In fact, the tests render the argumentation for leftward movement circular and
vacuous. When heads are distinguished from maximal projections on the basis of the analysis in
Chomsky (1995b), i.e. on the basis of whether an LI projects further or not, this begs the ques-
tion whether and if so which LI in (76) (and in (77) for that matter) projects. I will seek an an-
swer to exactly that question in the remainder of the present chapter.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
However, these assumptions are stipulated and of very little explanatory value, nor
do they provide a satisfactory answer to all of the issues addressed in A) above.
In their account on nominal root compounds in Germanic and Romance,
Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008) provide an analysis in which the question of
projection is related to the question of φ-features. Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni
(2008: 13–15) derive a structure similar to the one in (77) for Germanic com-
pounds and argue that the Merger of the two nominal LIs creates a point of sym-
metry (PoS):
	 (80)	
This PoS results from the Merger of “two elements sharing the same level of struc-
tural complexity” (cf. ibid: 8), which Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008: 8) iden-
tify as an instance of Parallel Merge, and it constitutes a violation of the Linear
Correspondence Axiom (LCA) of Kayne (1994).
For Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008), who disallow Merger of two roots
(cf. ibid: 14), the structure in (77) is the one that they derive for nominal root
compounds in Germanic and in Romance. Hence, under their analysis, a PoS aris-
es in both types of compounds. This PoS standardly blocks the derivation from
proceeding. Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008: 9–10) argue that the PoS is dis-
solved by a movement operation in which one of the Merge partners that partici-
pate in the Parallel Merge operation is moved out of the symmetric structural
configuration. The difference between the Romance and the Germanic pattern for
them then boils down to a difference in the point at which the PoS is dissolved in
the two languages families.
So, PoS resolution is a repair strategy that rescues the derivation and allows
it to proceed despite a temporary PoS. Moro (2000) develops a similar idea in his
Dynamic Antisymmetry framework. Under Moro’s analysis, however, the PoS-
dissolving movement operation does not differ from other movement opera-
tions. In fact, under his account all movement is driven by antisymmetry and
none is feature driven. Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008: 10) model their anal-
ysis on Moro’s ideas, but assume that a functional head F is merged on top of the
symmetric structure. This functional head acts as a Probe that targets an “inter-
pretable but unvalued” (ibid: 15) feature on one of the two LIs, which participate
in the PoS creating Parallel Merger, and triggers movement. As a result the PoS
is dissolved:
n
PoS
n
n √β
n √α
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
	 (81)	
		 [adopted from Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni 2008: 15]
Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008: 11) refer to this repair strategy as a compound
Phase which is subject to an earliness principle that requires the compound Phase
to apply as early in the derivation as possible, while still ensuring PF-conver-
gence.56 Ultimately, this is the place then where they localize the variation be-
tween Romance and Germanic compounding.
In Germanic, according to the account in Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008:
12–14), the F head attracts a gender feature on the n-head. This gender feature is
argued to be derivable from the declension class a noun belongs to, due to a sys-
tematic relation between the two in this language family. So the n-head is specified
for a declension class feature that is reinterpreted as a gender feature in Germanic
(cf. ibid: 14) and can therefore be probed by the functional head F. This functional
head then is realized as a LE, in essence making F the syntactic head of the com-
pound.57 However, F is special in so far as it “does not activate the lexical semantics
56.	 What is puzzling in this context is that Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008: 10) argue
that, on the one hand, the compound Phase is the repair strategy, while, on the other hand,
the movement operation that resolves the PoS is clearly ordered prior to interface Transfer.
It is not clear to me what this is supposed to mean. Either Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni dis-
sociate Phases from Spell-Out and Transfer very much in the spirit of Chomsky (2008) and
the discussion in Grewendorf & Kremers (2009) – which they make no mention of – or the
compound Phase is significantly different from other Phases in a way not made precise in
their analysis.
57.	 This is a bit of an unusual situation and begs the question of whether the F-head targets the
gender feature, and if so, also at which point this gender feature is introduced into the deriva-
tion, or whether the F-head targets the declension class feature, and if so again at which point
in the derivation this feature is introduced. Assuming that gender is one of the φ-features that
is introduced by a categorizing x-head (n in this case) the F-head would target the n-head,
which arguably carries the whole set of φ-features. This then makes the declension-class feature
obsolete, because there is simply no reason to also have a declension class feature that encodes
virtually the same information. If, on the other hand, the declension class feature were intro-
duced into the derivation at a lower level already, say at the root level, the question of how the
nP
FP
FP
F PoS
nP nP
n √β
n √α
n √α
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
of any of the two NPs” (ibid: 15) it is merged to. This has on the one hand the effect
that the compound has the wide range of interpretive possibilities typically as-
cribed to Germanic compounding and on the other hand leaves room for deter-
mining the semantic head of the compound on purely phrase-structural grounds
(cf. ibid 15–16) under which the attracted nP in (81) that is adjoined to FP is inter-
preted as the non-head, while the in-situ nP is the head.
All in all, this analysis predicts an unambiguous relation between gender, de-
clension class and LE58 in Germanic, which Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008)
take to hold in most cases – although they acknowledge some deviations for
German (cf. ibid: 16).
In Romance, where declension class and gender are not related, this analysis is
not viable. Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008: 19–22) argue that, due to the ab-
sence of a direct and systematic relation between the declension class a noun
belongs to and the gender feature a noun bears, nP, which then is specified for a
declension class feature only, cannot be attracted by an F head of the kind found in
Germanic. Hence, they conclude that the repair strategy for PoS dissolution can-
not be applied at the nP level. Instead, it is full φ-phrases that are projected and
which are combined by Parallel Merge creating a PoS. These φ-phrases are fully
specified for gender and number (cf. ibid: 19).59
relation between the declension class and the gender feature is established remains unanswered.
Additionally, introducing a declension class feature at the root-level amounts to establishing
the nominal character of the LI already at this level, which is irreconcilable with the assump-
tion that at this level of the derivation LIs are merely roots without any categorial or syntactic
information.
58.	 Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008: 18) argue that the phonological form of the LE is ulti-
mately determined by a choice function operating at PF.
59.	 In contrast to the nominal root compounds of Germanic, gender here is an interpretable
feature though, and thus cannot trigger the movement operation. Number is interpretable as
well, but does not play any further role in the analysis that Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni pres-
ent. They remark that plural marking on the non-head (cf. below for identification of the
non-head in Romance compounds) is only apparent in Italian nominal root compounds and
virtually non-existent in all other Romance languages (cf. 2008: 24–31), unless the compound
is realized as a prepositional compound instead of a nominal root compound. Prepositional
compounds, however are not characterized by a PoS. This is why they are derived along the
standard lines of phrasal syntax and show a range of properties that are significantly different
from those of root compounds – among these: recursion (cf. Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni
2008: 23–24). Number on the head, in turn, is said to be assigned after completion of the
compound Phase, which is possible here, because number is higher than gender on the func-
tional hierarchy (cf. ibid).
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
	 (82)	
		 [adopted from Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni 2008: 21]
Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008: 20) further argue that nominal root com-
pounds in Romance specify a predicate-relation akin to the Formal Quale of
Pustejovsky (1995). And this is what the functional head F attracts in Romance: an
unvalued qualia-oriented feature that is matched with the valued qualia-oriented
feature on F (cf. ibid: 20). The fact that F activates the Formal Quale on the probed
nP is reason enough for Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008: 21) to assume that this
is what leads to the much more restricted compositional interpretation of nominal
root compounds in Romance as compared to Germanic and at the same time it is
what leads to the moved nP being the head of the root compound. The functional
head here is characterized as an element that is not realized phonologically in
Romance (cf. ibid: 22).
In sum, the difference between Romance and Germanic nominal root com-
pounds then boils down to two closely related things. First, the PoS is dissolved at the
level of nP in Germanic and at the level of φP in Romance. Second, the functional
head F that resolves the PoS operates on an unvalued gender feature in Germanic
and on an unvalued Formal Quale feature in Romance. Interpretational differences
and the left- vs. right-headedness of Germanic vs. Romance automatically follow.
So, Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008) in their paper present an analysis that
provides answers to the issues raised in A) and in B) at the beginning of this chapter.
The projecting element is the moved LI in Romance and the in-situ LI in Germanic.
The movement inducing feature is an unvalued gender feature in Germanic and an
unvalued Quale feature in Romance. Furthermore, similar to the analysis presented
here, nominal root compounding involves Phases under Delfitto, Fábregas &
Melloni’s account. This is an important point, because it is again only at the Phase
level, when (narrow) syntactic structures are transferred to the interfaces, that or-
dering relations play a role. However, some aspects of the approach in Delfitto,
ϕP
FP
FP
F PoS
ϕP ϕP
ϕ nP
n √β
ϕ nP
ϕ nP
n √α
n √α
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Fábregas & Melloni are problematic in so far as they sharply deviate from the un-
derlying assumptions made here. Thus, in what follows these discrepancies are
pointed out and an alternative analysis that overcomes them is presented.
The first concern is a methodological one that relates to the level at which the
PoS is identified for Germanic and for Romance languages. Simply put it centers
around the question of how the derivation ‘knows’ that it has to construct all the
way up to φP in Romance before Parallel Merge is even available, while it is enough
to construct to nP in Germanic for Parallel Merge to apply. This seems to require
a substantial amount of look-ahead. Plus, the derivation must constantly check
whether Parallel Merge can apply – given that Parallel Merge can only apply when
it will produce a structure that features a PoS that can immediately be resolved in
the next step of the derivation via probing of an appropriate functional head intro-
duced into the derivation by EM.60
To be clear, the structures in (76) and (77) both contain a PoS too, however,
the difference between these two structures does not arise from a requirement on
Parallel Merge. Instead, it arises from Merger driven by EFs. This latter account on
Merge is much more in line with the SMT than the Parallel Merge operation of
Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni and does not require any look-ahead mechanism.61
Nor does an EF-driven take on Merge require the derivation to keep track of the
structural make-up of the Merge partners. This, however, is essential for Parallel
Merge, where identical structural complexity of the Merge partners is tantamount
to (the application of) the operation. What is not clear, though, is where and how
the derivation checks for the structural complexity involved in the Merger of two
elements and against which criteria structural complexity is evaluated. One solu-
tion here would be a counting mechanism that simply counts the previous Merge
steps – something that grammars are said to be incapable of (cf. e.g. Hornstein
2009: 37–38). Another would be to count the number of features involved – also
something that seems unreasonable, given the general unavailability of counting
and the further complication that it is not at all clear which features are to be count-
ed. Hence, even when abstracting away from the fact that it is not clear what trig-
gers Parallel Merge in the first place, all conceivable measurements for evaluating
60.	 Additionally, prima facie, Parallel Merge seems to be the ideal context for conjunction and
it is not clear, how it can systematically be distinguished from conjunction. Many thanks to
Thilo Tappe for bringing this to my attention.
61.	 Notice further, that when the look-ahead character of Parallel Merge is reduced somewhat,
i.e. when Parallel Merge is simply the Merger of two elements that share the same level of struc-
tural complexity this has the interesting consequence of making Merger of two roots available.
Put differently, if Parallel Merge just does not care about the availability of a functional head in
the next step of the derivation, then Merger of two roots, which presumably qualify for the cri-
terion of identical structural complexity, should emerge as a natural consequence.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
identical structural complexity are rather dubious and mark a substantial devia-
tion from the SMT. Eventually, this deviation may turn out to be necessary but it
needs to be motivated – a complication that an EF-driven account on Merge that
is in line with the SMT does not face.
A second concern arises from the postulation of the functional head that
Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008) take to dissolve the PoS. Several things are
unclear about this head. First of all, it seems to be a Phase-head that differs cross-
linguistically in a peculiar way. While it may be possible that a morphological pa-
rameter is responsible for different behavior of Phase-heads across languages
(cf. e.g. the detailed analysis in Gallego 2010), this is due to very specific properties
of this particular head which is nevertheless base-generated in the same structural
position in all languages. Secondly, such a head either operates on a certain
feature or does not operate on this very feature (cf. e.g. Fox & Pesetsky’s 2003; 2005
analysis of T as a Phase-head), but it is not the case that the head operates on a
completely different feature, as is the case with the F-head assumed in Delfitto,
Fábregas & Melloni, which operates on a gender feature or a Quale feature in
Germanic or Romance respectively. In this context, as has been pointed out in
Chapter 1, the c-selectional properties of the F-head in Germanic are just as prob-
lematic as the s-selectional properties of the F-head in Romance. Neither c-selec-
tion nor s-selection should be the trigger for Merger of the F-head in any account.
Further problems related to the status of F are that it is not entirely clear,
whether F is a Phase-head at all (cf. also the comments in footnote 55). Here the
analysis in Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni remains somewhat vague and is further
blurred by the distinction between F as, on the one hand, the syntactic head of the
compound in Germanic and in Romance, and, on the other hand, the in-situ n as
the semantic head in Germanic and the moved n as the semantic head in Ro-
mance.62 What speaks in favor of F being the head is that it attracts phrases (nPs in
Germanic and φPs in Romance) to its edge. Two things are confusing here though.
First, what is identified as an edge position in Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008:
15) is in fact an adjoined position (cf. ibid: 10 & 16–18). Moreover it is puzzling
that F bears a valued feature that attracts an unvalued feature from inside the sym-
metric structure. This, again, is at odds with the conception of Phase-heads as the
loci for unvalued features (cf. Gallego 2010: 57; Chomsky 2008: 142). And it is
puzzling why F – as the PoS-dissolving element that enters the stage only after the
application of Parallel Merge – is capable of distinguishing between the n-head
that bears an unvalued gender feature in Germanic and the n-head that does not
62.	 In fact, in Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni it is NP that is identified as the semantic head of the
compound.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
bear this feature and thus is not probed by F,63 while Parallel Merge is not able to
detect this significant difference.
The third concern is an empirical one that is related to the gender feature in
German(ic).64 First, it should not be forgotten that F does not target the gender
feature directly, instead, it targets a declension class feature on n that is reinter-
preted (or associated) with a gender feature.65 This reinterpretation of the declen-
sion class feature is an essential aspect for Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni’s analysis.
Only when the derivation includes an unvalued gender feature that is systemati-
cally related to the declension class a noun belongs to, can Parallel Merge apply.
Crucially, in Romance, where no such relation holds between declension class and
gender, the gender feature cannot be probed by F. Instead, it is realized as an inter-
pretable feature on the probing F-head (which probes for a Qualia feature instead)
in these languages.
As has been pointed out above, Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008) take the
relation between gender feature, declension class and LE, which is but a realization
of the gender feature, to be bi-unique. In light of the German data discussed in
Chapter 2.2 this raises a number of questions. First, it is not clear why it is possible
then that one and the same LI, which presumably is specified for just one gender
feature, allows for the realization of different LEs:
	 (83)	 a.	 Länderspiel German
			 country.pl + match
			 ‘match between two national teams’
		 b.	 Landeskirche German
			 country.gen + church
			 ‘national church’
		 c.	 Landsmann German
			 country.gen + man
			 ‘compatriot’
63.	 Or, for that matter, how F is capable of making a distinction between the φP that bears an
unvalued Quale feature and the one that does not, while Parallel Merge is again unable to make
something of this difference. Especially under a “semantically driven” (Delfitto, Fábregas &
Melloni 2008: 20) approach to compounding, which nominal root compounds in Romance al-
legedly are an instantiation of, it would be natural to assume that an unvalued feature in the
Formal Quale is sufficient for preventing a PoS to arise.
64.	 Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008) use German to illustrate their point and I will follow them
in this respect and use the German examples discussed here to argue against the role of gender.
65.	 Cf. also footnote 58 for problems associated with this conception.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
So, why is it possible that the LI Land with the gender specification [neuter] can
realize what looks like a plural marker as well as the two genitive forms as a LE
when it is used in compounding? In their appendix Delfitto Fábregas & Melloni
(2008: 34) distinguish between as much as ten (!) declension classes which are all
reinterpreted as [masculine] gender, but with different phonological forms for this
gender feature. For the association with [neuter] six declension classes are identi-
fied and for [feminine] five. If correct, then the association between gender and
declension class, as exemplified in Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni, strongly suggests
that different LIs that are specified for the same gender may still realize this gender
differently, i.e. by phonologically distinct LEs, but it does not imply that one and
the same LI, which is specified for one gender and is associated with just one de-
clension class, can realize its LE in different forms.66
Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008: 34) further argue that the LE may also be
realized as ∅. This would imply that, contrary to the analysis presented in 2.2, the
form in (84) also contains a LE:
	 (84)	 Landstraße German
		 country + ∅ + road
		 ‘country road’
Again, it might not be totally implausible that LEs are realized as ∅, but this already
gives us four different realizations of an LE for one and the same LI, which is a
member of just one declension class.67 This calls for an explanation that Delfitto,
Fábregas & Melloni do not provide in their analysis.
Additionally, the forms in (55a)–(59a), repeated below, pose a problem for the
analysis in Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni:
	 (55)	 a.	 Nashorn German
			 nose.root + horn
			 ‘rhinoceros’
66.	 Such cases do exist as well as is shown in Nübling & Szczepaniak (2009). Here a distinction
is made between compounds with oscillating linking elements and those that realize multiple
linkers but with a strict distribution in particular contexts. However, Nübling & Szczepaniak do
not offer an explanation for the oscillation – mostly between -s and a zero element – nor for why
one LI can take different linkers according to contexts.
67.	 Notice, that this, incidentally, poses a problem for all the forms discussed in this chapter,
which then have at least two realizations of the LE: one in ∅ and one in either plural or one of
the two genitive forms – even though they may not all exhibit the full spectrum of four different
LEs found on Land.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	 (56)	 a.	 Augapfel German
			 eye.root + apple
			 ‘eyeball’
	 (57)	 a.	 Münztelefon German
			 coin.root + telephone	
			 ‘payphone’
	 (58)	 a.	 Kirchturm German
			 church.root + tower
			 ‘spire’
	 (59)	 a.	 Sprachdefizit German
			 language.root + deficit
			 ‘language deficit’
In 2.3.2 it has been argued that these forms result from the Merger of two roots, i.e.
the option that Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008) classify as universally unavail-
able in their analysis and therefore exclude. Notice though, that these forms simply
cannot be LIs specified for gender, since they are just roots as can be seen from the
forms below:68
	 (85)	 die	 Nase German
		 the	nose.root + -e	
		 ‘the nose’
	 (86)	 das	Auge German
		 the	eye.root + -e
		 ‘the eye’
	 (87)	 die	 Münze German
		 the	coin.root + -e
		 ‘the coin’
	 (88)	 die	 Kirche German
		 the	church.root + -e
		 ‘the church’
	 (89)	 die	 Sprache German
		 the	language.root + -e
		 ‘the language’
The -e affix, which may be taken to indicate the [feminine] or [neuter] gender
specification or the declension class of the forms in (85)–(89) (cf. Delfitto, Fábregas
68.	 Additionally, the Werwolf example in (60), of course falls under this heading too.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
& Melloni 2008: 13), is not realized in the compound forms. The forms in (90)
indicate that this cannot be due to phonological restrictions:
	 (90)	 a.	 Hansestadt German
			 trade + city
			 ‘Hanseatic city’
		 b.	 Reisepass German
			 travel + pass
			 ‘passport’
Both Hanse and Reise are feminine in German and contain the same -e marker as
the forms in (85) & (87)–(89). Here, however, this marker is realized overtly, hence
it is not just the root but the full stem that is merged to the LIs Stadt and Pass re-
spectively, in the examples above.
All these data strongly suggest that the relation between declension class, gen-
der and the phonological realization in form of a LE is not as systematic and
unambiguous as Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008) suggest. In fact for such a cor-
relation to hold, one would probably expect a biunique relation to hold between
the LE and the LI this LE is realized on. This, however, is far from correct for what
we see in the German forms discussed here and an analysis under which the geni-
tive and plural markers are interpreted as instantiations of LEs, just as much as the
∅-element is, fails to provide an explanation for the interpretational differences
that have been discussed in Chapter 2.2.
Additionally, such an analysis begs the question of how this applies to those
Germanic languages that do not mark the gender overtly. In a short remark
Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008: 19) just suggest that e.g. English and Dutch
differ from German in so far as these two Germanic languages do not use as rich a
repertoire of LEs as German does. English, it is claimed, hardly ever realizes a LE
and Dutch has just two forms: -en and -s. This, Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (ibid)
argue can be attributed to lexicalization.
While it might not be totally unreasonable to assume that some process of
lexicalization is at work in English or Dutch that leads to the impoverishment in
the PF-realization of LEs, it is far from clear how the relation to gender can be ac-
counted for. Here Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008: 12–14) simply stipulate that
nouns in English and Dutch are marked for declension class pretty much in the
same way as their German counterparts, which then allows for making the same
correlation between the declension class a noun belongs to and the gender it is
specified for. This is, however, highly suspicious, because it is not clear why e.g. in
English such a relation should be established in the first place. In fact, the (relative)
absence of gender marking in English could just as well be interpreted as an
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
indication that a correlation between gender and declension class just does not
exist, which comes close to the argument that Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008:
12) want to push for Romance languages.
Interestingly, Alexiadou, Haegeman & Stavrou (2007: 238) provide clear evi-
dence (pace Defitto, Fábregas & Melloni 2008) that a large number of nouns in
Spanish and Italian show a clear and straightforward relation between declension
class and gender.
Following the analysis in Harris (1991), Alexiadou, Haegeman & Stavrou
(2007: 238) argue that three types of nouns must be distinguished in Spanish: in-
ner core nouns, outer core nouns and a residual class. For the first two a clear rela-
tion between declension class and gender can be established. Inner core nouns are
those that exhibit variable gender, e.g. in Spanish hijo (‘son’) vs. hija (‘daughter’) or
Italian ragazzo (‘boy’) vs. ragazza (‘girl’), here gender is variable and interpretable.
Outer core nouns have a fixed but interpretable gender, e.g. donna (‘woman’) in
Italian. The residual class is the only class that patterns along the lines described by
Delfitto, Fábregas and Melloni (2008). Here the -a in Italian sedia (‘chair’) is not an
indication for the gender of the noun – although it is also feminine. In this case
gender is neither interpretable nor variable (cf. ibid: 241–242).
Alexiadou, Haegeman & Stavrou (2007: 242) point out further that the inter-
pretability of gender in inner and outer core nouns in Spanish and Italian could be
related to the animacy of the noun. This, then, is an exact parallel of the pattern
found in English for forms like actor/actress, duke/duchess, usher/usherette, horse/
mare, fox/vixen, etc. These data can be taken as another indication that the relation
between declension class and gender, if applicable at all, does not fall in line with
the split between Romance and Germanic.69
One final aspect that is problematic for the analysis in Delfitto, Fábregas &
Melloni (2008) is that it fails to provide a compelling explanation for the recursive
character of Germanic compounds. When comparing the non-recursive nominal
root compounds in Romance to their fully recursive prepositional counterparts of
the tasse à café type (cf. ibid: 23–24), Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni argue that recur-
sion is constrained in compounds because the F-head that attracts the φP cannot
select structures larger than φP; this, in their view, automatically excludes recur-
sion, because the structural level at which the second compounding operation
would apply, necessarily is larger than φP.
While this is a perfectly sound explanation for the difference between Romance
prepositional compounds, which are highly recursive, and their non-recursive root
69.	 Cf. also Alexiadou, Haegeman & Stavrou (2007: 235–246) for a careful comparison of an
analysis in which gender is related to number (rather than declension class) with an analysis in
which gender is taken to be an idiosyncratic property assigned in the lexicon.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
counterparts, it says nothing about why recursion in Germanic is licit. In fact, this
analysis would predict that, unless the F-head in Germanic can select structures
larger than nP, the same constraint on recursion should apply here as well.
However, there is no evidence that the F-head in Germanic does select larger
structures. Why should F be able to attract larger pieces of structure, notably FPs,
when the feature that F probes is the uninterpretable gender feature on nP? Given
the characterization of F this is particularly unlikely. Recall that Merger of F is a re-
pair strategy that Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008) postulate for PoS resolution.
The PoS arises from Parallel Merge, which in turn can only apply when a head F –
that probes for the relevant features on the LIs combined by Parallel Merge (gender
in Germanic and Formal Quale in Romance) – is merged in the next step of the
derivation. Hence, when movement to Spec, FP has taken place, the resulting FP
should constitute a structure that is sufficiently asymmetric for no other PoS to arise.
The same logic, of course, also applies to the Romance cases, the only difference be-
ing that FP does not attract nP but φP instead. In effect, this means that Germanic
and Romance should pattern alike with respect to recursion – contrary to fact.
To sum up, an analysis in which gender is identified as the relevant feature for
the differences between nominal root compounding in Germanic and Romance
faces several problems. Methodologically it is not clear how such an analysis can
be reconciled with minimalist assumptions and in particular how it can meet SMT
requirements. Without embracing a number of stipulations, ad-hoc assumptions
and massive look-ahead a number of insurmountable problems arise. Addition-
ally, a number of empirical questions arise that cannot be explained. Nevertheless,
the idea that compounding involves Phases, which are related to the φ-features –
of which gender is but one – of the LIs involved, and which maintains the order
independence of the narrow syntactic operation Merge, is worth pursuing and this
is what is done in the next section and in this context also the remaining question
(listed under C) above) is addressed.
2.3.5	 Incorporation: φ-features and phases
The discussion in the preceding section has shown that the association between
gender and Phases is problematic in nominal root compounding. In fact, the id-
iosyncratic nature of gender rather suggests that it cannot play an active role in
the compounding process. This however, does not mean that nominal root com-
pounds do not involve Phases. Indeed, the discussion in 2.3.3 has warranted an
analysis for nominal root compounds in which Phases play a crucial role for mak-
ing a distinction between productive compositional and recursive compounding,
on the one hand, and non-recursive and non-compositional compounding, on
the other hand.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Both types of compounding involve a PoS, which for non-recursive and non-
compositional compounds arises from the Merger of two uncategorized roots,
while it originates from the Merger of two categorized n-nodes in the composi-
tional and recursive cases. However, the PoS is resolved differently for the two
compound types. To see how, let us start with the latter type of compound. The
structure for this compound is the one in (80), repeated below:
	 (80)	
Following the assumptions in Marantz (2001; 2007) each of the two LIs involved
in compound formation is interpreted separately upon Merger with the categoriz-
ing and Phase-inducing n-head. In Section 2.3.3 it has been argued further that the
n-head is not only a categorizing head, but that it is also associated with φ-features.
This is well in line with the observations made in 2.2 that compositional com-
pounds in German show compound internal inflectional markers. So provided
that both n-heads carry φ-features, it is only natural that plural morphology oc-
curs. The question is, how these φ-features are interpreted at the interface. The
discussion of the data in 2.2 has shown that the plural morpheme is not generally
interpreted as a genuine plural. Instead, plural marked nominal root compounds
allow for a variety of different interpretations in contrast to restricting the mean-
ing of the compound to one lexicalized and (possibly) drifted reading, as is the
case with compounds resulting from the Merger of two uncategorized roots.
A number of explanations are possible for this observation. First, it could of
course be argued that the plural marker is not really a plural marker but a LE in-
stead (cf. e.g. Nübling & Szczepaniak 2009; 2010; 2011). This, however, does not
explain the difference between the forms in (91) and (92):
	 (91)	 Sonnenbrille German
		 sun.pl + glasses
		 ‘sunglasses’ or ‘glasses with sun-shaped rims’, etc.
	 (92)	 Liebesbrief German
		 love + le + letter
		 ‘love letter’
So why does the LE on Liebe not have the same effect as the alleged LE on Sonne?
When taking them both to be LEs no coherent analysis can be found.
n
PoS
n
n √β
n √α
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
Alternatively, it can be argued that the nP Sonnen does not receive a ‘genuine’
plural interpretation because number is not a simple feature. Borer (2005a: 88–135)
argues that number is spread across two functional heads: a divisor and a counter
(cf. also Alexiadou, Haegeman & Stavrou 2007 for a similar analysis). So, it could
be argued that a plural interpretation emerges only in the presence of both of these
heads.70 While this is, in principle, a viable analysis, it raises a number of technical
questions. For one, it is not clear whether Borer’s system is compatible with the
conception of the Merge operation described in Chapter 1.71 Moreover, it is un-
clear how these functional heads fare in a Phase-based account. Provided that N is
the Phase-head, how and when are the functional heads that are merged on top of
it interpreted?72 And it is also not clear why only some of the φ-features play a role
here. So, why is the number feature spread across two heads while person features
are completely irrelevant for Borer’s analysis? Finally, Borer’s system does not seem
to allow the Merger of two categorized substantive formatives, nor is it immedi-
ately applicable to the root-root Merger of the non-productive and non-composi-
tional compounds.
70.	 Actually, I am brushing over a number of intricate details here – for a more elaborate ac-
count the reader is referred to Borer’s works – but the gist of the analysis is that a definite count
interpretation can only arise from the Merger of three functional heads: a divisor, a counter and
a definer. Depending on the language, each of these heads can be realized differently. For English
Borer argues that the divisor is realized by plural morphology, the counter by e.g. numerals or
indefinite determines and the definer by definite determiners. Quantifiers can in principle be
merged in every head and raise through these head positions by successive cyclic movement,
eventually ending in D. Different interpretations then emerge, depending on how much struc-
ture is realized (cf. Borer 2005a: 143). For the case of nominal root compounding this means
that above the nominal head there should only be a divisor head, since neither indefinite
determiners or numerals nor definite determiners are licensed. So, in essence, the nouns in
nominal root compounds can at most have a mass interpretation. Hence, pace the assumptions
in Delfitto, Fábregas & Melloni (2008: 17), it is not at all surprising that Sonnen in (82) is not
interpreted as two or more fixed stars.
71.	 Under Borer’s analysis substantive formatives (corresponding roughly to LIs) are stored in
a place distinct from grammatical morphemes and it is not clear what drives the Merger of the
various functional heads nor of the formatives and the categorizing head.
72.	 Here a potential answer that seems to suggest itself is that these functional heads are all
Phase-heads, since the functional heads are all specified for abstract head-features that are li-
censed under Spec-Head agreement (cf. Borer 2005a). Interestingly, this is strongly reminiscent
of a recent proposal by Grewendorf & Kremers (2009) where the problem of parallel probing
arising in Chomsky (2008) is circumvented by assuming that Agree is subject to local Spec-Head
agreement. However, a number of uncertainties remain, it is, for instance, not clear which status
the abstract features on the functional heads have, what their Values are, etc. Nor is clear wheth-
er it is possible to merge two Phase-heads on top of one other (cf. e.g. Boeckx 2008b).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
None of these issues seem to pose insurmountable problems, however, so they
can safely be left for future research at this point, especially in light of the fact that
a different analysis presents itself. All that needs to be acknowledged is that the
plural morphology that is observed in nominal root compounds is not necessarily
interpreted as a ‘genuine’ plural.73 So let us now turn to the alternative analysis.74
This analysis is based on Roberts’ (2010) account of incorporation. Recall that
Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002) and Roeper & Snyder (2005) argue that nom-
inal root compounds have an ACP from where the LI inserted into that position
moves leftwards. What is lacking in their accounts, however, is a motivation for
leftward movement (cf. also Haider (2013) for explicit criticism). In fact, the move-
ment operation as it is described in the above mentioned analyses is one from the
sister position of a head to the specifier of the same head. Besides the lack of a
feature that would trigger this kind of movement there is more reason to be skepti-
cal. If, as Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002) and Roeper & Snyder (2005) claim,
the ACP is a head position, then this is not only an instance of Merger of two
heads, but it is also an instance in which the head that is merged in the ACP is
moved to the Spec of the head it is merged with. This is not only head-movement,
which, as Chomsky (2000) argues, does not exist in narrow syntax, it is also vacu-
ous movement in violation of anti-locality (cf. Grohman 2003; Abels 2003).
The assumption that head-movement is a pure PF-phenomenon has been
challenged a number of times (cf. e.g. Matushansky 2006; Vincente 2007; Narita
2009; 2011; Roberts 2010 for interesting alternatives as well as e.g. Poletto &
Pollock 2004; Pollock 2006 for reanalyses of head-movement as remnant move-
ment) and I will simply assume here that the literature provides a sufficient
amount of counter-evidence (cf. also Chapter 5 for a more thorough discussion)
to safely discard it. The existence of head-movement in narrow syntax, however,
does not answer the question of how this type of movement is motivated and
how the problem of vacuous movement is solved. Roberts (2010) argues for a
73.	 This is probably less surprising as it may prima facie seem, since it is far from clear what the
exact interpretation of φ-features actually is. After all, cases in which [plural] is interpreted dif-
ferent from the ‘individuated set of more than one entity’ are abundant in the literature and an
abstract kind-interpretation for plurals, which is actually pretty close to the interpretation found
on the nominal root compounds discussed here, is not too far off.
74.	 In fact there might also be a third alternative that I do not intend to consider further here.
This is a feature bundling analysis along the lines roughly sketched in Gallego (2011) where the
Merger of features in the lexicon leads to the composition of LIs like e.g. n, which then feed into
syntax. Here manipulations of the feature bundles that enter into the Merger that produces an LI
suggest themselves as a natural place to look for alternations that have the observed effect on
interpretation. It is, however, way beyond the scope of this work to investigate the repercussions
of such an analysis, which at this point is therefore left for future research.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
purely syntactic account of head-movement in the context of cliticization in Ro-
mance languages. A detailed account of Roberts’ extensive and careful analysis
of head-movement and clitic incorporation in Romance certainly is not expedi-
ent here, but some of the essential characteristics of his analysis are worth point-
ing out, since they provide useful insight into the trigger for head-movement in
nominal root compounding.
Roberts (2010) analyzes clitics in terms of head-movement that results in in-
corporation of the clitic onto its host. For this operation to apply, Roberts (2010: 62)
identifies the following conditions: the clitic must be a minimal category, it must
conform to a constraint on incorporation and the clitic must be a defective Goal.
Roberts (2010: 54) somewhat deviates from Chomsky (1995a) in defining a
minimal category as follows:
	 (93)	 The label L of a category α is minimal iff α dominates no category β whose
label is distinct from α’s.
Correspondingly, a maximal category is defined as (ibid):
	 (94)	 The label L of category β is maximal iff there is no immediately dominat-
ing category α whose label is nondistinct from β’s.
This derives clitics as candidates of a min/max category. However, in light of the
comments on labeling in Chapter 1, this analysis is problematic. Instead we will
recur to the original characterization in Chomsky (1995a: 245) where a minimal
category is one that is either a terminal element or “a category formed by adjunc-
tion to the head [...] which projects” (ibid). Similarly, Boeckx (2008a: 75) describes
a minimal category as an LI selected from the lexicon/Numeration. In essence, this
boils down to identifying a minimal category as an LI with EFs (cf. also Narita
(2011) for a similar analysis).
Hence, for our purposes here, we can identify the root as well as the categoriz-
ing n-head in (70) repeated above as a minimal category. Let me therefore refor-
mulate the minimal category requirement along the lines of Narita (2011), where
the EF of Chomsky (2008) is taken to be the crucial characteristic that marks a SO
as belonging to a minimal category:75
	 (95)	 Minimal category:
		 A minimal category is an LI that bears an EF.
The constraint on incorporation that Roberts identifies is the following (2010: 57):
75.	 Narita (2011) derives this requirement from the SMT. For a more detailed account on why
this is strictly in line with the SMT (cf. Narita 2011) and the discussion on the relation between
minimal categories and EFs in Chapter 4.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	 (96)	 Incorporation can take place only where the label of the incorporee is
non-distinct from that of the incorporation host.
Roberts (ibid) himself acknowledges that this constraint is highly reminiscent of
the conflation mechanism in Hale & Keyser (2002) or Harley (2004). So, since the
roots α and β do not carry any features other than EFs, it is safe to assume that they
do not carry a label distinct from that of the n-head. This then means that both
roots in (80) incorporate on the respective n-head in a first step:
	 (97)	
However, this incorporation operation does not help with dissolving the PoS and
motivating the leftward movement operation of one of the n-heads that Roeper,
Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002) and Roeper & Snyder (2005) identify.
Here, the last of Roberts’ (2010: 59–61) conditions comes into play. In Ro-
mance, in order for the clitic to incorporate onto the verb, v* and the clitic must
establish an Agree relation in which v* probes the clitic, which in turn is a defec-
tive Goal. What is important to note here is that clitic Goals are defective only in
relative terms, since they do not lack a specification of φ-features as can be seen
from Roberts’ definition of defectiveness (ibid: 62):
	 (98)	 A goal G is defective iff G’s formal features are a proper subset of those of
G’s Probe P.
I will follow Roberts’ line of reasoning here in assuming that defectiveness is a
relative notion. To see how, let me compare Roberts’ account on clitic incorpora-
tion with the situation in nominal root compounds. Roberts (2010: 57–60) argues
that incorporation of the clitic onto v* is triggered under the following circum-
stances: v* is a Phase-head that bears unvalued φ-features. In order to value its
φ-features, v* probes the clitic. The clitic contains a full set of φ-features that are
valued and this is what allows v* and the clitic to establish an Agree relation.
	 (99)	 Trigger for Agree
		 v* [Pers: unvalued, Num: unvalued]	 clitic [Pers: α, Num: β]
		 After Agree
		 v* [Pers: α, Num: β]	 clitic [Pers: α, Num: β]
		 [adapted from Roberts 2010: 60]
n
PoS
n
n √β
n √α
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
Since the clitic does not contain any Case Attributes and since the v* Probe lacks a
structural Case feature (cf. ibid 57), the φ-feature set of v* and the clitic are identi-
cal so the condition in (87) applies and incorporation of the clitic onto v* results.
Summing up, incorporation here is triggered by an Agree relation between the
Probe v* and its defective clitic Goal, which is defective only in the sense of (98).76
Now, in the context of nominal root compounds, the situation is slightly differ-
ent. The n-heads are Phase-heads too, however, they do not have any unvalued
φ-features. Instead they are specified for interpretable and valued φ-features. So
when the two n-heads merge, each of them bears a set of valued φ-features. Since
the φ-features enter the derivation as valued features, they will not be deleted upon
Spell-Out but will be handed over to the C-I interface, where they are interpreted.
This is, what guarantees that each of the two nouns in the compound is interpreted
separately and can thus contribute to the compositional meaning of the compound.
This, however, does not necessarily mean that the n-heads cannot be Probes.
Following Chomsky (2001: 5–6; 2004: 116) I contend that syntax does not
operate on the specifics of the interpretable features on the LIs. All that syntax is
sensitive to is whether a feature is valued or not (cf. also Gallego 2010: 25–27). So,
the two n-heads, by virtue of being n-heads enter the derivation with a full speci-
fication of φ-features, i.e. they are specified for the two Attributes [person] and
[number], which have a value each. Let us assume that it is sufficient for the LIs to
be specified for a default value in order to guarantee that they are recognized as
valued and interpretable. Under this view, it is not expected that an Agree relation
between the two n-heads is established, because according to Chomsky (2000:
123) it is only unvalued features that render LIs active in the computation. LIs that
bear valued features cannot act as Probes and do not actively participate in syntac-
tic operations.
However, Narita (2009; 2011), following Chomsky, argues that EFs are also
features that are unvalued. Thus, when two LIs merge – which, as pointed out in
Chomsky (2008), they only can when they are specified for EFs – then the fact that
they bear EFs should be enough for initiating an Agree relation. Now, to be clear, EFs
never get valued and never delete (cf. Chomsky 2008; Narita 2009: 220), which is
76.	 In fact, the situation is slightly less straight forward than it appears to be. Roberts (2010)
following work by Holmberg (2010) argues that the relative notion of defectiveness – expressed
by the proper subset relation – is crucial for the incorporation operation to take place. How-
ever, the situation described in (100) is not one in which the clitic is a proper subset of v*.
Rather the two sets are identical. Roberts (2010) excludes a case feature on v* as the relevant
feature that would lead to a proper subset relation. This, however, leaves it completely unclear
what the relevant feature(s) would be. Notice that according to Roberts’ own logic, a situation
in which both LIs are equipped with identical feature sets the result should be total conflation
rather than incorporation.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
unproblematic, because they can pass Spell-Out without causing a crash. This does
not mean though that they do not play an active part in the derivation. In particular
when assuming that Agree is an operation that is parasitic on Match (cf. Chomsky
2001: 5–7; Gallego 2010: 26–28) it is perfectly natural to assume that the unvalued
EFs on the n-heads in nominal root compounds probe the respective other n-head.77
What the EF finds there is another EF which is also unvalued, which is okay for the
derivation to proceed and which does not cause any problems at Spell-Out.
What happens at the same time, though, is that Match is operative. Match is an
operation that does not care about the Values of the features, it only scans for the
feature Attributes (cf. Gallego 2010: 27). So, Match will find that both n-heads
carry interpretable φ-features. Notice that if Match found that one of the Merge
partners carried unvalued features and if these features could not be valued before
Spell-Out, this would be the situation that would lead the derivation to crash.
However, this is not the case here, what Match finds is that each of the LIs is spec-
ified for exactly the same Attributes and that each of these Attributes carries a
value that is interpretable at C-I. So the following holds:
	(100)	 Trigger for Agree
		 n [Pers: α, Num: β] [EF: unval.]	 n [Pers: γ, Num: δ] [EF: unval.]
		 After Match
		 n [Pers: α, Num: β] [EF: unval.]	 n [Pers: γ, Num: δ] [EF: unval.]
This is the situation that Roberts (2010) describes as the condition for clitic incor-
poration.78 Notice that Match does not care about the specific Values for the two
n-heads. All that matters is that they are valued (cf. Gallego 2010). So this should
also be the situation in which incorporation applies in nominal root compounds:79
	(101)	
77.	 Narita (2009) shows that it may be enough if this probing is not mutual; I will assume here
that the EFs on both heads probe.
78.	 Again, as pointed out before in the context of Roberts’ (2010) original analysis, the situation
in (100) is not one in which the feature content of one LI is a proper subset of the other. Instead,
at least as far as feature Attributes are concerned, the two LIs have identical sets. However, there
is a crucial difference between the two LIs with respect to their feature Values (cf. also Gallego
2010 for more on the relevance of this distinction). The relevance of this will become immedi-
ately apparent in the discussion below.
79.	 I use subscripts α and β to indicate that this is the n-head resulting from root-incorporation
discussed in (97).
nα
nα nβ
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
Roberts (2010: 60) also remarks that the defectiveness of the clitic Goal would lead
to a situation in which the clitic should disappear at the end of the Phase and that
the only reason that it does not disappear is that it incorporates onto the v* head.
Put differently, Roberts (2010) establishes the defective Agree relation as the cru-
cial factor for head-movement and characterizes Agree as a form of movement in
which nothing is left behind because the feature content of the moved element is
indistinguishable from the feature content of the incorporation host. However,
this assumption is surprising. After all, the clitic is the LI that bears valued and
interpretable features and v* is the element that values its features against the val-
ues specified on the clitic. So, the candidate for deletion should rather be v*.
For the case of nominal root compounds, however, this is irrelevant, because
none of the feature sets contains unvalued features. Hence, the valued features stay
on the n-heads where they can be, and indeed are, interpreted by C-I. Neverthe-
less, incorporation takes place because it is initiated by the Matching operation of
the φ-features on the two n-heads. This Matching operation differs from other
cases of Matching involved in standard Agree relations only in so far as it is not
followed by Valuation.80
The only remaining question then is which of the two ns participating in the
Matching operation is the one that is incorporated, or put differently how exactly
the PoS that still exists after Match is dissolved. Here is where the φ-feature speci-
fication is relevant. Recall, that we said that the n-heads are marked for interpre-
table features and that syntax does not really care about the exact specification of
these features (cf. Chomsky 2001: 123). All that matters is that they are valued
somehow. Hence, they could also be valued by a default, however, there seems to
be a constraint here that is operative on the LI that is incorporated. Notice that this
n-head lacks a specification for structural Case (akin to the lack of this specifica-
tion on the clitic in Roberts’ (2010) account). Additionally, the person value for
this n-head, which is [3 person] for all instances, is a default – just as much as the
[3 person] value on the n-head that is the incorporation host is a default.
This brings us to the specification of the number feature. Now, if that were also
a default, we would face a situation in which one of the n-heads is valued as default
in all of its interpretable φ-feature configurations. Prima facie, this does not seem
to be possible and it would parallel the situation that Roberts’ describes as the
context in which the clitic would ‘disappear’ from the derivation. So, the situation
we are facing is one in which one of the n-heads lacks an Attribute for structural
80.	 Gallego (2010: 28) points out that other cases of Match which are not followed by Valuation
exist. These are different from the cases discussed here, in so far as the Probe lacks one of the
feature Attributes for Match. However, nothing seems to prevent the type of Match without
Valuation that is discussed here either and ruling it out seems to be a costly stipulation in devia-
tion from the SMT (cf. also Chapter 5 for further discussion).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Case, bears a default specification for one of its φ-features, i.e. [3 person] and a
marked specification, namely [plural], for the other interpretable and valued
φ-feature (gender – as has been argued in the preceding chapter - being valued but
not interpretable (cf. also Chomsky 1995a and Gallego 2010: 25)):
	(102)	 nβ [Pers: default, Num: plural/marked] [EF: unval.]
The other n-head bears an unvalued feature for structural Case, probably also a
default specification for person and a random specification for number (either
default or marked):
	(103)	 nα [Pers: default, Num: random but valued] [EF: unval.] [Case: unvalued]
In this respect, the feature specification of the n-head in (102) is a proper subset of
the feature specification of the n-head in (103), which is still sufficiently distinct to
avoid total conflation and leads to incorporation.
Three things are worth noticing as consequences following from this concep-
tion. First, it is conceivable that in those cases in which the n-head in (102) bears
a default value also on its number feature and the distinctiveness (in terms of
Match) from the n-head in (91/103) is at stake, German nominal root compounds
show a genitive marker (cf. discussion of data in Chapter 2.2.). This genitive, like
the plural is not associated with a rigid interpretation at C-I, however. This is fa-
miliar from the plural cases and, like plural, it is a feature that is interpretable on
nouns at C-I (cf. Chomsky 1995a), i.e. it does not interact with unvalued struc-
tural Case. Thus, in the absence of a plural marker the genitive marker is the repair
strategy that the derivation employs for making the two n-heads sufficiently dis-
tinct to both survive in the derivation.81
81.	 In fact, the slight but noticeable differences between the full productivity of plural marking
and the somewhat less productive genitive marked forms discussed in Chapter 2.2 (cf. examples
in (27)) might suggest that this is possibly the older pattern that was historically productive, but
has ceased to be so in present day processes of word-formation. This is supported by the fact that
among novel compounds there is hardly any genitive marked form at all, while, at the same time,
there are some double forms that contain either a genitive marker or no marker at all:
	 (i)	 Rindsfleisch	 vs.	 Rindfleisch
		 cow.gen + meat	 vs.	 cow + meat
		 ‘cowmeat’			 ‘cowmeat’

There is hardly any interpretational difference between the two forms and sometimes the dis-
tinction is argued to be of a dialectal nature. This can be taken as another indication that we
are looking at a historically productive process here, which has lost its productivity in one dia-
lect and is on the verge of loosing it in the other variant too. The loss of productivity in the
Rindsfleisch form is predicted to be accompanied by a loss of the inflectional marker.
	 If on the right track, this opens up space for a number of interesting questions relating to
language change. The coexistence of forms such as the one in (i) opens a window for the study
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
Secondly, incorporating one of the n-heads into the respective other n-head,
technically also has the effect that the incorporated n-head is embedded in the
n-head of the incorporation host. This makes the absence of a fully accessible
plural interpretation very plausible, since one of the Phase-heads is embedded in
another Phase-head, which, for all intents and purposes, is the point at which
the lower Phase is inaccessible for further steps of the derivation at the latest,
regardless of which version of the Phrase Impenetrability Condition (PIC)
proves to be accurate (cf. e.g. Chomsky 2000; 2008 vs 2001; 2004; as well as
Richards 2007: 568; Grewendorf & Kremers 2009: 389; Gallego 2010: 43 as well
as Chapter 5 for relevant and relativizing discussion). Also, it explains why, de-
spite the [plural] value on number, we never see any licensing of e.g. numerals
inside the root compounds.
Finally, let us take a brief look at the other type of nominal root compound iden-
tified for German, which contains a PoS as well and see how this PoS is dissolved.
The structure for this compound is shown in (76), repeated below for convenience:
	 (76)	
Here the PoS arises from the Merger of the two roots and the question that arises
is, how this PoS is dissolved:
	(106)	
Recall, that Merger of α and β is driven by EFs on these LIs. Both LIs do not con-
tain any other features. Thus, the unvalued EF on α probes β and the unvalued EF
on β probes α. However, this does not dissolve the PoS nor does it help with the
determination of the label for the SO that is derived by the Merge operation. In
Chapter 1.2 it has been pointed out that unlabeled structures cannot be dealt with
of language change and allows us to make testable predictions on language change. Moreover, it
allows for taking a closer look at which features are most likely to be affected by language change.
So questions on whether the features of the head are affected in the same way that features on
the non-head are and whether all features drift with the same ease become accessible. Notice,
that it is to be hoped that answers to the latter question could also provide insight into whether
the drift that is observed is in line with current assumptions on feature hierarchies. Many thanks
to Erich Groat for drawing my attention to these matters.
nEF
n
√
√αEF
√βEF
PoS
√αEF
√βEF
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
at the interfaces. Tolerating temporarily unlabeled structures, which are filtered
out at the interfaces, on the other hand, provides the interfaces with a considerable
and undesirable amount of derivational power.
Now, if label-determination is tied to the Valuation of unvalued features, it
is, however, impossible to determine a label at this point, because none of the
two elements merged has its unvalued feature (i.e. the EF) valued and none of
the two elements has any other valued or unvalued feature that can be brought
into the derivation.
For the dissolution of the PoS that arises from the Merger of two categorized
n-heads – which also did not have any unvalued features other than the EFs which
did not get valued in the course of the derivation either – it has been argued that a
non-default number feature on the incorporee is what prevents total conflation
and leads to incorporation. Here no such feature is available. Hence, the two roots
conflate into a single root, which is then merged with a categorizing n-head. This
comports well with the observations for Chinese ‘exocentric’-compounds in Zhang
(2007) and the non-recursive, non-productive and non-compositional compounds
in German, since, as expected, upon Spell-Out the two roots behave as one and do
not individually contribute to the meaning of the compound.
The ordering of the two roots then boils down to a simple PF-matter that can
be dealt with in terms of the LCA. Kayne (1994) originally argued that the LCA
holds at all levels of representation, however, he devises his version of the LCA
in X-bar theoretic terms. With the advancement of BPS it has been shown nu-
merous times (cf. e.g. Chomsky 1995a; Hornstein 2001; Chomsky 2004; Nunes
2004; Fox & Pesetsky 2005; Boeckx 2008a and many many others) that the LCA
applies in the phonological component or at the C-I interface but not in FLN.
Moro (2000; 2007)82 develops a version of the LCA that allows for the Merger of
two LIs creating a PoS. This PoS is dissolved in the course of the derivation by
moving one of the LIs to a higher specifier position. This movement operation in
Moro’s approach is driven by symmetry alone and does not rely on uninterpre-
table features (cf. 2000: 13–14). Although it is doubtful whether all movement
can be perceived as PF-driven, as argued for by Moro (2000; 2007), a PF-driven
account that dissolves the PoS in the type of nominal root compound discussed
here is perfectly viable.83
82.	 In fact, even Moro (2000: 93) acknowledges that it is far from clear whether all syntactic
movement operations can be relegated to symmetry driven PF-movement.
83.	 Thus, when sticking to the PF-movement analysis for the root + root Merger cases, the
analysis presented here might even be uniformly derivable under the account in Boeckx (2010b)
where ns are analyzed as intransitive Phases distinct from transitive v Phases. The exact techni-
calities of such an integration will be left for future research though.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
As Moro (2000: 85) points out, the Merger of two heads that results in a PoS
differs from the Merger of two maximal projections that create a PoS in that it does
not provide conflicting ordering information but rather no ordering information
at all. Nevertheless, movement of one head into a higher position (which is possi-
bly a specifier position) solves the ordering problem and makes the structure lin-
earizable at PF. Such a strategy seems to be readily available for the structure in
(106) with several consequences.84
First of all, this movement operation does not interfere with the meaning of
the compound. We do not expect that PF-driven movement has an effect on the
meaning of the structure and this is what we observe for these root compounds:
the two roots are unanalyzed in syntax and treated as one, thus contributing to the
drifted and fixed meaning of the compound.85
Ultimately, this may well be the reason for the lack of compositionality in these
compounds. When merging a third root in the same derivational cycle, this would
not lead to any embedding but would derive a flat structure that violates the prin-
ciple of binary branching. Thus, either the product of the Merger of the two roots
α and β needs to be categorized first and can then be merged with a third root, or
it must be accessible in the lexicon as a single root.
This line of reasoning comports well with considerations on parametric vari-
ation. The unavailability of recursive, productive and compositional compound-
ing in Romance can then be reduced to the fact that Merger of three roots is
generally unavailable across languages. So, Merger of more than two roots does
not occur in Romance either. The alternative strategy of Merger of two n-heads is
also unavailable in Romance, because the relevant feature, i.e. number, is not as-
sociated with the n-head in these languages (cf. e.g. Alexiadou, Hageman &
Stavrou 2007: 229–235 and references therein).86 Incidentally, this is also the
84.	 Note incidentally, that under this analysis, the order independence of Merge can be main-
tained. Additionally, the observation that the non-head LI behaves more like a specifier than a
complement (cf. Haider 2013: 202) receives a natural explanation.
85.	 Basically, the result of Merger of two roots then is a syntactic process, the result of which,
however, is not interpreted independently. Thus, the idiosyncratic meaning of the SO that con-
sists of two roots must come from the lexicon. Only if an LI that consists of two roots is listed in
the lexicon will the result be well-formed. Otherwise the result of this Merger will be discarded
as soon as the resulting SO is sent to Spell-Out, i.e. upon Merger of the categorizing head. The
dissolution of the PoS then boils down to a purely phonological operation.
86.	 The lack of an overt inflectional marker in nominal root compounds in English can be
relegated to the fact that English generally does not distinguish between uncategorized roots
and categorized x-heads by morphological marking in a majority of contexts. Thus, the syn-
cretic nature of English correlates with the lack of overt inflectional marking in compounding,
while it does not totally exclude this option as has been shown in the discussion of the data in
Section 2.2.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
place that Roberts (2010: 215–216) allocates to parametric variation – at least to
the extent that parameters are a meaningful concept in minimalist theorizing
at all (cf. e.g. Hornstein 2009; Boeckx 2010a; Kayne 2010; Starke 2010 for fur-
ther elaboration).
Finally, the fact that this movement operation is an instance of head-move-
ment in the phonological domain, which Chomsky (1995a) initially identified as
the place for all instances of head-movement, correlates with the findings in recent
accounts on syntactic head-movement, which all put strong emphasis on the
fact that not all head-movement is syntactic and that some of it may well be pho-
nological (cf. e.g. Matushansky 2006; Gallego 2010; Roberts 2010; 2011a). The
analysis presented here simply allows for clearly dissociating instances of head-
movement that take place in narrow syntax from those that take place at PF.87
2.4	 Conclusion
On the basis of data on nominal root compounding primarily from German and
English, it has been shown that a clear distinction can be made between produc-
tive, recursive and compositional nominal root compounding, on the one hand,
and lexicalized, drifted and fixed nominal root compounding, on the other hand.
The distinction between these two types of compounds follows from crucial differ-
ences in the derivation of the two types. Compositional, recursive and productive
compounds result from the Merger of two n-heads. These n-heads are Phase-heads
and the complement domain of these Phase-heads is sent to Spell-Out prior to the
Merger of the two heads. In consequence, each of the two categorized roots that
are first-merged with the n-heads contributes to the meaning of the compound,
hence the compositional interpretation. Explicit, i.e. non-default, inflectional
marking on one of the LIs is what allows for dissolving a PoS that arises from the
Merger of the two n-heads and at the same time provides a clear explanation for
why compound internal inflectional marking occurs and why this marking allows
for the variety of different interpretations typically found with this type of nominal
root compound.
Non-compositional nominal root compounds, in contrast, result from the
Merger of two uncategorized roots, which are subsequently merged with an n-
head that constitutes a Phase. In this case, the complex that results from the Merg-
er of the two roots does not allow for an individual contribution of the two roots
to the meaning of the compound. In consequence, these compounds have a drifted
87.	 Cf. also Chapter 4 for further elaboration on a type of head-movement that is exclusively
syntactic in nature.
	 Chapter 2.  Nominal root compounds	 
meaning. Inflectional marking is not expected to occur here, since roots generally
do not host inflectional morphology. And the PoS that here arises from the Merg-
er of two uncategorized roots is dissolved by antisymmetry driven head-move-
ment in the PF-component.
Thus, the derivation for the two types of nominal root compounds is strictly in
line with the SMT and follows naturally from a Phase-driven derivation of mor-
phological structure without making reference to additional stipulations and
unmotivated features or mechanisms, such as a [± affix]-feature of questionable
status, a dubious Case-feature, an unmotivated gender feature or an ACP with
unclear motivations for movement.
chapter 3
The nominalizing of nominalizations
3.1	 The conundrum
This chapter examines another domain in which an interaction between Phase-
theory and PoS resolution can be observed: that of nominalizations and in par-
ticular that of nominal gerunds. Just like in nominal root compounding, here a
PoS emerges from merging a verb and its internal argument (or object). Once
again, the PoS can be resolved by two different strategies and a clear interpreta-
tional effect emerges, as is expected under an analysis that is guided by the SMT
alone and that does not make use of additional unmotivated stipulations.
A classic conundrum that emerges in this context is the relation of inflectional
morphology to derivational morphology. The crucial questions in this context are
why they are sometimes the same and what properties carry over from inflec-
tional to derivational structure, or, put differently, how, for instance, does the pro-
gressive morpheme -ing on the nominalization in (1) relate to the homophonous
morpheme on the result nominal in (2) and what about the occurrence of -ing in
the intermediate form in (3)?
	 (1)	 Ted’s painting pictures beautifully
	 (2)	 Ted’s/the paintings
	 (3)	 Ted’s painting of pictures beautifully
Closer inspection reveals that an expression like (4) carries the activity reading of
inflectional -ing, but the progressive meaning of the -ing morpheme is unavailable.
The result nominal in (5), in turn, does not carry any activity whatsoever:
	 (4)	 his painting beautifully
	 (5)	 his ugly painting irritated everyone
The puzzle is not new as is evidenced by the fact that the pattern in (1)–(3) is
reminiscent of the forms already discussed in Chomsky’s (1970) seminal paper
‘Remarks on Nominalization’ (cf. ibid: 215):
	 (6)	 a.	 John’s refusing the offer
		 b.	 John’s refusal of the offer
		 c.	 John’s refusing of the offer
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
As is well known, the form in (6a) is characterized as a gerundive nominal in
Chomsky’s account, the form in (6b) is a nominalization and the form in (6c) is
described as a ‘rather clumsy’ (Chomsky 1970: 215) mixed form. Chomsky
(cf. ibid) draws a line between the derivation of the form in (6a), on the one hand,
which is identified as the result of a regular syntactic process of word-formation,
and the form in (6b), on the other hand, which is characterized as the product of
a lexical process of word-formation. Despite the fact that it shares some charac-
teristics with the form in (6b), the from in (6c) is ultimately described as the
product of syntactic word-formation processes on a par with those processes that
derive the form in (6a). The original assumption that the form in (6b) is formed
in the lexicon and not in syntax has been challenged a number of times since
Chomsky suggested it the first time (cf. e.g. more recently Marantz 1997; 2001;
2007; Harely & Noyer 1998a;b van Hout & Roeper 1998; Roeper & van Hout
1999; Borer 2003, 2005a;b Alexiadou, Haegeman & Stavrou 2007; and several
others). The assumption that the forms in (6a) and (6c) are derived in syntax has
been far less controversial1 and did not face any serious challenges. However, the
exact technicalities of the derivational processes involved in generating the two
forms are far from universally agreed upon (cf. for instance van Hout & Roeper
1998 vs. Abney 1987; Siegel 1997 and Grimshaw 1990 for just a few fundamen-
tally different suggestions).
However, distinguishing between the forms in (1)–(6) simply in terms of
where they are derived, i.e. in syntax or in the lexicon, is not good enough, as it
does not provide an answer to why the forms in (2) and (5), which obviously re-
semble the form in (6b), are interpreted as results and can be pluralized, while the
other forms resist pluralization and carry an activity reading. Moreover, arguing
for two different places of derivation does not circumvent the question of which
processes are operative in the syntax (and in the lexicon) that lead to the formation
of these forms, nor why syntax can derive both the forms in (1) and (3) or (6a) and
(6c) respectively and what the differences between these are.
Paying heed to reservations against deriving the forms in (2), (5) and ulti-
mately (6b), in the lexicon, this chapter seeks to find answers to how they are
derived instead and how they relate to the other forms in (1)–(6). One possible
answer that is pursued in detail here comes from considerations on Phase-theory
where a parallel set of theoretical questions arises. A substantial number of papers
has argued that nominalized forms contain some sort of verbal functional struc-
ture (cf. e.g. Hazout 1995; Borer 1999; Alexiadou 2001; Fu, Roeper & Borer 2001;
1.	 In fact, further relativization is probably due here as well. The form in (6a) is much more
readily accepted as the result of a syntactic process, while the form in (6c) may also be the result
of a lexical process of word-formation even in Chomsky (1970: 214).
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
Barrie 2006; Alexiadou, Haegeman & Stavrou 2007; Alexiadou 2008; Harely 2008;
Sichel 2009; Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare 2010). If correct, this strongly sug-
gests that two Phases are involved in these cases: One lower Phase in the verbal
domain and one higher Phase in the nominal domain. Apparently, based on the
observations in (1)–(3), -ing can be generated in both domains:
	 (7)	
In (7) the verbal head, i.e. v or Asp, qualifies as a Phase-head just as much as the
nominalizing head, which is represented here as n or D respectively.2 Given the
SMT, the identification of these heads as Phase-heads means that Transfer applies
in both instances.
In consequence, this is also the place where the observed differences in inter-
pretation arise. Under a Phase-theoretic account that adheres to the SMT it is only
natural that aspectual information that is related to the lower Phase in (7) is not
accessible any more once the derivation has reached the higher Phase. On the
other hand, pluralization, which is a property of nominal elements, is expected to
arise only in the higher Phase and not in the lower one.
In effect then, the two -ing morphemes in (1)–(3) are two distinct heads. One
is a verbal head that carries aspectual information and one is a nominal head that
can be pluralized in very much the same way as any other n-head. Data from
German, discussed in Bauke & Roeper (2012) and Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia &
Soare 2010, as well as data from Romanian in Iordăchioaia & Soare 2008, corrobo-
rate this assumption, since German, for instance, distinguishes between two types
of nominalizations that correspond to the higher and the lower -ing affix of Eng-
lish, namely nominalizations in -ung, on the one hand, and -en nominalizations
(i.e. nominalized infinitives) on the other hand:
2.	 For the time being I will not decide between the two alternatives (D vs. n and Asp vs. v).
The analysis in this chapter will provide a clear answer to the question which nodes -ing
instantiates.
D/n
Asp/v
ing
Asp/v
Spec
ing
D/n
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	 (8)	 a.	 die	 Kreuzung German
			 the	 cross-ung(nmlz)3
			 ‘the crossing’
		 b.	 das	 Kreuzen German
			 the	 cross-en(inf)
			 ‘the crossing’
This does not mean, though, that German nominalizations in -ung or English
nominalizer -ing forms do not project verbal functional structure (nor that they
are derived in a different component of the grammar). It simply means that, as
expected from predictions based on the SMT, Phase-boundaries which are estab-
lished by the projection of the higher Phase-head block access to lower projec-
tions. So, in line with the analysis for nominal root compounds in the preceding
chapter, the analysis here shows that deep principles of syntax affect morphology
and once again evidence from the periphery of grammar for fundamental syntac-
tic principles being at work is taken as the strongest evidence possible that they are
real – in syntax and in morphology.
In essence then, pace the analysis in Abney (1987), all nominal gerunds here
are analyzed as containing verbal functional structure. In a first step, the verb and
its internal argument are merged in the lower Phase as in (9):
	 (9)	
When the verb and the noun remain in the lower Phase, aspectual modification is
possible, since the verb and its argument are interpreted in the lower Phase as well:
	 (10)	 Ted’s painting of the portrait in two days
	 (11)	 Ted’s portrait-painting in two days
The alternation between (10) and (11) results from two different strategies to re-
solve the PoS that arises from the Merger of V and N in (9). Both strategies are
discussed in detail at a later point in this chapter.
When the verb and the object move out of the lower Phase, and into the
higher Phase instantiated by the nominalizing head, they escape Transfer in the
lower cycle and are thus interpreted only in the higher Phase. At this point,
aspectual modification is unavailable however, because the verbal Phase, which
can host aspectual modifiers, is already spelled-out and thus no longer acces-
sible. Plural morphology on the nominal head, though, is readily available at
this point.
3.	 nmlz stands for nominalizer.
N
V
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
A similar scenario can be observed in the sentential domain with wh-move-
ment. It is standardly assumed that the wh-object moves from its base position in
the complement domain of V into an (outer) specifier of vP (cf. e.g. Radford 2004:
393 or Grewendorf & Kremers 2009: 411 for some critical discussion). Movement
to this specifier position, which is a Phase-edge position, saves the wh-word from
being sent to Spell-Out when the complement of v is transferred.
	 (12)	 What did [vP what Ted paint [VP what]]?
The question is how this movement can be accounted for in the nominal gerund
structures. When the noun incorporates onto the verb, both LIs naturally move as
a unit into the higher Phase. The result are forms like (13), which have a result
interpretation and cannot license aspectual modifiers, which are too low in the
tree to be accessible (cf. 14):
	 (13)	 Ted’s portrait-paintings
	 (14)	 *Ted’s portrait-paintings in two hours
The remaining question is what happens in non-incorporated structures, i.e. when
the verb and the object move separately. Here things are a bit more intricate as the
discussion will show. However, the general direction of the answer is already clear.
If the verb moves into the higher Phase, it is not expected that aspectual modifiers
are licit and this prediction is borne out:
	 (15)	 *Ted’s paintings of the portrait in two hours.
Whether the pluralized forms are licit without the aspectual modifier as in (16)
seems to depend on a number of factors:
	 (16)	 ?Ted’s paintings of the portrait
These factors will be examined carefully in the following sections of this chapter.
3.2	 The pattern
The pattern that emerges from the brief introduction and discussion of the data in
the previous section is the one in (17):
	 (17)	 a.	 The/Ted’s cutting of the grass
		 b.	 The/Ted’s grass-cutting
		 c.	 The/Ted’s cuttings of (the) grass
		 d.	 The/Ted’s grass-cuttings
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
The nominal gerund in (17a) is equivalent to the mixed form in Chomsky (1970:
215), represented here as (6c), or to the form in (3) respectively. When comparing
this form to the verbal structure in (18), it is immediately obvious that the internal
argument of the gerund is realized in an of-phrase, (which is what lead Abney
(1987) to describe this type of gerund as -ing of gerund).
	 (18)	 Ted cuts the grass.
In (18) the internal argument is directly licensed by the verb instead. In (17b) the
internal argument is incorporated onto the gerund-form. The gerund forms in
(17c) and (17d) also contain the non-incorporated internal argument realized in
an of-phrase and the incorporated version respectively. The only difference be-
tween (17a) and (17c), on the one hand, and (17b) and (17d), on the other, is that
the gerund forms in (17c) and (17d) are pluralized. Thus, we distinguish between
non-incorporated and non-pluralized nominal gerunds (17a), incorporated and
non-pluralized nominal gerunds (17b), non-incorporated and pluralized nominal
gerunds (17c) and incorporated and pluralized nominal gerunds (17d). This is
somewhat surprising and leads to the question how this observation is reconcil-
able with the pattern outlined in Chomsky (1970) and reproduced here in
(6a)–(6b), or with the pattern provided in (1)–(3) for that matter.
One possible answer comes from Grimshaw (1990), who in her seminal book
Argument Structure calls for a distinction to be made between two types of nomi-
nalizations, i.e. R-nominals and AS-nominals (argument structure). Grimshaw
describes some nominalizations as ambiguous between the two interpretations.
This is somewhat reminiscent of the forms in (17) where the form in (17d) has a
clear result interpretation while e.g the form in (17a) has an eventive reading. In
order to disambiguate those forms, Grimshaw (1990: 46 ff.) lays out an extensive
list of test devices, which among other things include diagnostics from argument
structure and pluralization.4
The following examples are provided in this context (cf. Grimshaw 1990: 54):
	 (19)	 a.	 The assignments were long.
		 b.	 *The assignments of the problem took a long time.
The form in (19a), which does not project any arguments, is identified as an
R-nominal, the form in (19b), which projects the internal argument in an of-
phrase, pretty much in the same vein as the forms in (17a) and (17c), is analyzed
4.	 I will not review the full list of test devices that Grimshaw provides, because it is not vital
for the discussion here. The reader is referred to Grimshaw (1990) for the full list and to Borer
(1999: 1) and Alexiadou (2006: 4) for an overview of and some critical remarks on the diagnos-
tics that Grimshaw suggests.
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
as an AS-nominal. Thus, Grimshaw (1990) arrives at a classification in which those
nominals that project the direct internal argument of the underlying verb in an
of-phrase are typed as AS-nominals. This, however, does not allow for a distinction
between the forms in (6a)–(6c), since all of these project the internal argument in
an of-phrase. As for the forms in (1)–(3) in turn, the form in (2) can be identified
as an R-nominal, because here no internal arguments are projected and the even-
tive character is also absent.
Another diagnostic that Grimshaw (1990: 54) suggests is that of pluralization.
As can again be seen in (19a) vs. (19b) AS-nominals cannot be pluralized, whereas
R-nominals are fine with plural forms. Once again, when applied to the forms in
(1)–(3) and (6a)–(6c) respectively, everything falls in place. The form in (2) can be
pluralized, has the predicted result interpretation and does not project the internal
argument. All other forms project the internal argument, have an eventive charac-
ter and resist pluralization:
	 (20)	 a.	 *Ted’s paintings pictures beautifully
		 b.	 *Ted’s paintings of pictures beautifully
		 c.	 *John’s refusings the offer
		 d.	 John’s refusals of the offer
		 e.	 *John’s refusings of the offer
However, when bringing the forms in (17) back into the game, the pattern breaks
down. The forms in (17c) and (17d) clearly project the internal argument while, at
the same time, they show plural morphology.
The fact that Grimshaw (1990: 50) insists that identifying one of the diagnos-
tics she lists suffices to classify a nominal form as either an R-nominal or as an
AS-nominal paired with the remark that -ing nominals are always eventive AS-
nominals (cf. ibid: 50) only complicates things further. Why then can the -ing
forms in (17) project the internal argument and still alternate between a result and
an activity reading and in how far is the form grass-cuttings in (17d) different from
paintings in (2)? And why do both of the forms in (17a) and (17b) license aspec-
tual modifiers or adverbial phrases and the do-so anaphor (cf. also Fu, Roeper &
Borer 2001) while neither the forms in (17c) and (17d) nor the form in (2) do:
	 (21)	 a.	 Ted’s cutting of the grass....
			 Ted’s grass-cutting ...
				 .... [PP in an hour]
				 .... [PP for an hour]
				 .... [PP with a scythe]
				 .... [AdvP immediately]
				 .... *[AdvP unfortunately]
				 .... [and Bobby’s doing so too]
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
		 b.	 Ted’s cuttings of the grass....
			 Ted’s grass-cuttings...
			 Ted’s paintings...
				 .... *[PP in an hour]
				 .... *[PP for an hour]
				 .... *[PP with a scythe]
				 .... *[AdvP immediately]
				 .... *[AdvP unfortunately]
				 .... *[and Bobby’s doing so too]
Ultimately, the deeper question emerging here is how the eventive character of
argument structure projecting AS-nominals and the result character of R-nom-
inals can be described in structural terms. That is, why can the LI cut which is
affixed by -ing in (21a) (or (17a) and (17b)) project argument structure and have
an activity interpretation, while the same LI, when affixed with -ing in (21b)
(or (17c) and (17d)), can still project argument structure in an of-phrase while
it has a result reading at the same time. When taking the SMT at face value, the
interpretational effect that is observed here should emerge from clearly discern-
ible differences in the derivation of the two patterns. Especially so, when consid-
ering that nothing about everyday meaning rules out the illicit modifications in
(21b). The example in (22) can be conceived of as a pluralized event, i.e. as an
event that happened over and over again and still not even the atelic aspectual
modifier is licensed:
	 (22)	 *The shootings of prisoners for hours in the bloody war did not bother the
aggressors.
Although the intended meaning of the sentence in (22) is immediately accessible,
it is not well-formed. Hence, the ungrammaticality of this sentence must be rooted
in the structural make-up and this is what we will discuss step by step in the fol-
lowing sections.
3.3	 Towards a structural analysis
3.3.1	 Non-incorporated non-pluralized nominal gerunds
The distinction between R-nominals and AS-nominals in Grimshaw (1990)
rests first and foremost on semantic pillars. Consequences for structural rep-
resentations are not discussed. This, of course, does not mean that syntactic
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
accounts do not exist. In fact a number of different approaches exist, which
usually take the eventive interpretation of AS-nominals as an indication that
verbal functional structure is projected at least in these nominals (cf. among
others Harley & Noyer 1998a; van Hout & Roeper 1998, Alexiadou 2001; Borer
2003 for just a few examples). It is not the aim of this chapter though to review
the numerous approaches available in the literature with all their merits and
shortcomings. Instead, the purpose here is to take these accounts as a starting
point for developing a structural analysis that adequately describes the full
pattern in (17). This analysis is guided by the SMT and independent phase-
theoretic principles.
Abney (1987) identifies four types of gerunds5 and argues that nominal ger-
unds, which correspond to the form in (17a), do not project any verbal functional
structure. In fact, under Abney’s analysis the nominalizing affix is projected di-
rectly above the verb (cf. ibid: 223):
	 (23)	
The internal argument in the of – phrase is projected as a PP on top of the nominal
node in Abney (1987) and -ing affixation in (23) is described as a morphological
process. This is in stark contrast to Chomsky’s analysis of mixed forms, which –
again being identical to the form in (17a) – are derived in syntax.
On the other end of the spectrum, van Hout & Roeper (1998) provide the
structure in (25) for the nominal gerund in (24) (cf. ibid: 186):
	 (24)	 John’s cutting of the grass
5.	 Actually, Abney (1987) identifies three basic types of gerunds, two verbal gerunds (also
called gerundives), which he refers to as POSS-ing and ACC-ing gerunds (cf. ibid: 222–227),
and derived nominals, which correspond to the nominal gerund in (17a), and which he clas-
sifies as -ing of gerunds. Abney further identifies PRO-ing gerunds, but these, he argues, do
not constitute a basic type, because they are structurally identical to the gerundives (cf. ibid
183–188).
NP
V
N
ing cut
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	 (25)	
		 [adapted from van Hout & Roeper 1998: 186]
So, here the nominal gerund projects the full range of verbal functional structure,
all the way up to TP. The question here of course is, whether all these projections
are motivated. Two indications for the projection of at least some verbal func-
tional structure have already been mentioned in the preceding paragraphs. For
one, a substantial number of verbal modifiers are licensed and secondly the inter-
nal argument is projected.
Let us start with the latter first. In a first step the DP the grass is merged with
the root cut. Notice that at this point the LI cut is not categorized yet. Merger
of cut and the DP is possible though (at least) by virtue of the EF on cut (cf.
Chomsky 2008; Narita 2009; 2011). Notice further that, in line with the discussion
DP
Dʹ
NP
John NP
D
‘s
cut+ing
cutting
Nʹ
Spec
TP
N
Tʹ
Spec
AspP
T
the grass
cutting
cut
the grass V
cut
Aspʹ
DP
Voice-EventP
Asp
Voice-Eventʹ
PRO
VP
Voice-Event
Vʹ
DP
∅
V+Asp
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
in Chapter 1 and with standard assumptions in the literature (cf. e.g. Marantz
2001; 2007; Borer 2005a;b; Ramchand 2008) it is not assumed that cut c-selects
or s-­
selects the DP and it also does not assign a theta-role to the DP. Hence, the
situation at this point is that a fully specified DP with interpretable φ-features
and a root without any syntactically relevant features other than EFs are com-
bined by Merge. The DP like all DPs additionally is specified for an uninterpre-
table and unvalued Case feature. This Case-feature cannot be satisfied by the root
though. However, in contrast to the situation described for nominal root com-
pounds in Chapter 2, here the unvalued Case-feature prevents incorporation of
the DP.
Now, it could, of course, be argued, that the DP the grass cannot be incorpo-
rated anyway, simply because it is a maximal category. Recall that it was pointed
out in Chapter 2, following the argumentation in Roberts (2010), that only min-
imal categories can incorporate. Two questions emerge here though. First of all,
how does a BPS syntax ‘know’ that a syntactic object is a maximal category? Of
course, a relational definition of projection levels (cf. e.g. Chomsky 1995a: 398;
Boeckx 2006: 175–176; Hornstein, Nunes & Grohmann 2006; Boeckx 2008a:
75–77) can surely function as a lifeline here.6 However, when assuming that
the DP is a Phase – as is suggested and discussed in a number of places (cf. e.g.
Svenonius 2004; Bošković 2005; Hiraiwa 2005; Matushansky 2005; Müller &
Heck 2008; Ott 2008; Samuels 2008; Richards 2012) – this has the somewhat
unexpected consequence that a specifierless DP (i.e. a DP which has only the
determiner as its edge) may count as a head for the remainder of the derivation
(cf. Narita 2009; 2011).
The second point to be kept in mind here is that I argued in Chapter 2 that a
bare plural noun is analyzed as a root LI merged with a categorizing n-head.
Thus, if the DP status of the SO the grass in (24) were the only argument against
incorporation, it would be expected that a bare plural is automatically incorpo-
rated just as in the compound cases discussed in Chapter 2. This, however, is not
borne out:
	 (26)	 a.	 Ted’s painting of pictures
		 b.	 *Ted’s pictures-painting
The plural bare noun pictures is not incorporated onto the verb. In fact, incorpo-
rating the nP results in ungrammaticality as (26b) illustrates. So, again, it is un-
valued Case on pictures that prevents incorporation in this case and the only
6.	 In fact it is probably more than just a lifeline and could thus be regarded as a perfectly
sufficient motivation against incorporation. But see comments below for some minor reserva-
tions.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
difference between the form in (26a) and the form in (24) is one in definiteness
that is expressed by the presence vs. absence of the DP in (24) vs. (26a) respec-
tively (cf. also Borer 2005a;b; Alexiadou 2008 for arguments that go into the
same direction).7
Thus, it is safe to assume that Merger of VP or rather rootP and DP/nP is in
fact the first step in the derivation of the nominal compound. However, this
much is hardly ever contested. What is much more of an issue is whether the rest
of the functional structure that van Hout & Roeper (1998: 186) argue for is also
projected or not.
However, before turning to the next functional projection let me briefly ad-
dress the position in which the internal argument is merged.
Identifying the DP as the complement of RootP does not mean that RootP
selects the DP in any way. Recall, that RootP is analyzed in the same way that
RootPs in Chapter 2 are analyzed, as lacking any syntactically active features, oth-
er than EFs. So, the picture that emerges here is that the DP is merged with the
(verbal) root forming RootP. Following the assumptions in Chomsky (2004; 2008)
the DP then moves from Comp, RootP to its specifier. This movement is triggered
by feature inheritance from v to RootP (comparable to feature inheritance from
C to T) and it allows for feature valuation on DP in Spec, RootP:
	 (27)	
7.	 Actually, both, Borer (2005a;b) and Alexiadou (2008) argue for a much more fine-grained
nominal structure in which not only DP but also NumP, QP and/or classifier phrases are pro-
jected. In Chapter 2.3.5 it has been pointed out already that this conception, although it is not
totally irreconcilable with a Phase-based account, may be somewhat problematic. I will refrain
from a more detailed analysis at this point, since it is dissociated from the point to be made here.
Whatever may turn out to be the ‘correct’ projection in the nominal domain, it must provide for
an explanation that includes the incorporation structures in nominal root compounds and the
non-incorporated forms of nominal gerunds (as well as the incorporated versions as the discus-
sion in the following sections will show!).
vP
a.
V
v[uφ]
V
DP/nP[φ]
DP/nP[φ]
V[uφ]
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
		
This scenario seems plausible enough under van Hout & Roeper’s (1998) analysis,
where vP also is the next functional projection on top of VP. The unvalued Case
feature on the DP/nP could be identified as the relevant feature here that is as-
signed a value (after movement) in a Spec-Head configuration between V, which
inherited φ-features from v, and its specifier position.
However, even when abstracting away from the fact that feature inheritance is
not an entirely unproblematic operation, either for C-to-T or (and especially not)
for v-to-V feature inheritance (cf. Grewendorf & Kremers 2009; Richards 2007),
several things are at issue here. First of all, it is not entirely clear, whether v really
is the next item that is merged with the RootP. Secondly, it is pretty obvious that in
nominal gerunds Case Valuation by feature inheritance from v to V is not an op-
tion and thirdly considerations on anti-locality (cf. Abels 2003; Grohmann 2003;
Boeckx 2007; 2008a; and many others) seem to rule-out any type of Comp-to-Spec
roll-up movement illustrated in (27a).
Let me start with the latter point first. Anti-locality was also briefly men-
tioned as a reason against head-movement in nominal root compounds in
Chapter 2.3.5.8 However, it was not regarded as a major obstacle there and will
not be regarded as such here either. If anti-locality is regarded as movement
that is problematic under LCA considerations, this should not be regarded as a
hinderance here for at least two reasons. First, the discussion in Chapter 2 has
shown already that the LCA does not apply in narrow syntax (in line with
Chomsky 1995a and subsequent literature). Secondly, even if syntactic operations
were involved, Nunes clearly shows that unpronounced copies do not pose an
LCA violation under the copy theory of movement (cf. also Boeckx 2010b: 73–74
& 82–84 for an argument that anti-locality may turn out to be an epiphenomenon
that does not count as a genuine explanation for a ban on Comp-to-Spec roll-up
in some contexts).
8.	 It was mentioned as a reason against the movement operation that Roeper & Snyder (2005)
and Roeper, Snyder & Hiramatsu (2002) postulate for nominal root compounds in which the LI
merged in the ACP is moved to the specifier position of the same head it is initially merged with.
CP
b.
T
C[φ]
T
DP/nP[φ]
…
T[uφ]
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
The second point mentioned above is a more serious challenge. Harley &
Noyer (1998b: 155–156) already mention of-insertion as a last resort for accusative
Case assignment to a DP merged with a root. The examples they give are provided
below (cf. ibid):
	 (28)	 a.	 [DP The barbarians’ [√P destruction of the city]]
		 b.	 [DP Belushi’s [√P mixing of drugs and alcohol]]
The form in (28b) is a clear case of a nominal gerund and the form in (28a) is one
of the nominalizations that Grimshaw (1990) identified as displaying the R- vs.
AS-nominal ambiguity. In both cases, Harley & Noyer (1998b: 155) argue that of is
inserted as a last resort because the RootP is merged with a nominalizing DP and
thus accusative Case assignment by a VoiceP or vP is unavailable. Hence, in Harley
& Noyer’s account no further verbal functional structure is projected. This line of
reasoning is reiterated in Harley (2008: 7) and in Harley (2009: 9) where of-inser-
tion is likewise treated as a last resort operation tied to the absence of higher verbal
functional projections.
In fact Harley (2008: 7 & 13–15) relates the distinction between verbal and
nominal gerunds to the presence vs. absence of VoiceP or vP from which the pres-
ence vs. absence of accusative Case on the internal DP argument is derived. Thus,
Harley (2008: 7) provides the structure in (30a) for the nominal gerund in (29a)
and the structure in (30b) for the verbal gerund in (29b):9
	 (29)	 a.	 (The/Belushi’s) mixing of drugs and alcohol
		 b.	 PRO/Belushi(’s) mixing drugs and alcohol
	 (30)	
9.	 In fact, Harley later on modifies the structure for the verbal gerund (cf. 2008: 13–15) adding
yet more structure, which is basically motivated by the fact that the external argument cannot be
licensed in Spec, VoiceP. However, the tenor remains the same: nominal gerunds are nominal-
ized directly on top of VP and verbal gerunds contain (way) more verbal functional structure.
nP
a.
VP
n0
DP
V
mix+ing
drugs and alcohol
of
mix
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
		
In (30a) of is then inserted post-syntactically in order to guarantee the morpho-
logical well-formedness of the structure (cf. Harley 2008: 15).
When viewed from this perspective, it is immediately obvious that the ques-
tion of of-insertion is closely linked to the first point addressed above, i.e. whether
there is additional verbal functional structure on top of the V/root + DP complex.
For Harley the answer is a clear no. It is worth noticing, though, that of-insertion
in any case takes place only after Merger of a higher functional element. This ele-
ment is the categorizing n-head for Harley (2008; 2009), which is a Phase-head
that triggers Spell-Out of its complement domain. Therefore, of-insertion is a last
resort mechanism that prevents the derivation from crashing by virtue of satisfy-
ing the unvalued Case feature on the DP. This, however, entails that pace Harley
(2008: 15) of-insertion cannot be a post-syntactic operation, because this would
require that a structure with an unvalued feature can be transferred to the inter-
faces without inducing a crash, unless Case Valuation is ostracized from narrow
syntax anyway. Although not completely impossible, this latter option does not
seem to be viable though, at least not in the framework pursued here, where the
presence of unvalued Case is – amongst other things – the relevant factor for pre-
venting incorporation.
Several alternative solutions are easily conceivable though. It could either be
argued that of is the Spell-out of accusative Case as in Fu, Roeper & Borer (2001)
or that a functional projection that licenses accusative Case is projected on top of
VP/RootP but crucially below the Phase-head (cf. e.g. Harley 2008 for some spec-
ulations that go in that direction, which she ultimately discards though). This
functional projection could simply be FP, AgrO as in Chomsky (1995a), AspP as in
Roeper & van Hout (1998), AspQP as in Borer (2005b) or ProcP as in Ramchand
(2008). There are a number of sound arguments for and against assuming any one
of these projections. Since it is not my central goal here to determine which one is
nP
b.
VoiceP
n0
mix+ing Voice′
DP
Voice VP
Belushi
V DP
mix
drugs and alcohol
mix
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
the most plausible solution, I simply assume that of insertion is a last resort opera-
tion that values the unvalued Case feature on the internal argument DP and thus
enables this DP to pass Spell-Out without stalling the derivation, when sent to the
interfaces as part of the complement domain of a Phase-head merged on top of
VP/RootP.10
With so much in place, it is now time to turn to the next Merge operation. As
has been pointed out already, Harley (2008; 2009); Harley & Noyer (1998a) and
many others do not assume any verbal functional structure in nominal gerunds on
top of RootP. Harley’s main motivation for the absence of verbal functional struc-
ture comes from the unavailability of verb-particle alternations in nominal ger-
unds. The examples she provides are the following (cf. Harley 2008: 9–14):
	 (31)	 a.	 Ted wrote the bill up
		 b.	 Ted wrote up the bill
	 (32)	 a.	 Ted(’s) writing up the bill surprised Orin
		 b.	 Ted(’s) writing the bill up surprised Orin
	 (33)	 a.	 Ted’s writing up of the bill surprised Orin
		 b.	 *Ted’s writing of the bill up surprised Orin
While the position of the particle alternates freely in the verbal structures in (31)
and in the verbal gerunds in (32), the examples in (33) show that in nominal ger-
unds the DP cannot move higher than up. Harely (2008: 14) concludes from this
that DP-movement is blocked simply because there is no probing head higher than
up and thus also no potential landing site for the DP. However, this conclusion is a
bit premature for several reasons.
Alexidaou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010) provide an analysis of nominal ger-
unds that is similar to Harley’s account in so far as verbal functional structure is
10.	 In fact, van Hout & Roeper (1998: 185) already point out that this is a problem that extends
beyond the domain of nominalizations and that bears on other cases of Case-absorption, which,
lacking a comprehensive theory on structural and inherent Case assignment, presently cannot
be accounted for. The situation does not seem to have changed very much since then. Interest-
ingly enough, though, Grewendorf & Kremers (2009) point to research on the properties of
nominative Case assignment which hinges on an intricate interplay between overt T and C.
Maybe a similar mechanism is at work here.
	 Alternatively, of can be seen as the Spell-Out of inherent Case (cf. also Harley 2009: 9). This
has the advantage of circumventing the problematic character of of-insertion, which cannot be
post-syntactic but can also not be accounted for in syntax, while at the same time maintaing the
view that feature inheritance from v to V is not interrupted by any intervening aspectual (or
other) projections (cf. also below for further arguments that go into the same direction). Notice
also, that this is in line with the argument that it is Case-marking on the DP that prevents it from
incorporating onto V.
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
not projected there either. This does not mean that higher functional structure
which could in principle host the internal argument DP is not projected, though.
Instead Alexidaou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010) argue for a distinction between
verbal and nominal gerunds in terms of boundedness and thus for the projection
of Class(ifier)Ps and Num(ber)Ps in the latter case. Thus, a priori there does not
seem to be any reason for excluding movement of the internal argument DP to any
of these projections.11 So, the ungrammaticality of (33b) needs to be accounted for
in terms other than just stipulating the lack of a functional projection on top of the
RootP that can host the DP12 and the analysis in Alexidaou, Iordăchioaia & Soare
(2010) seems to be a viable first step.
Two things, however, remain problematic under an analysis that does not rec-
ognize the functional structure on top of the VP/RootP + DP complex as verbal.
First of all, the presence of verbal modifiers, already illustrated in (21) and re-
peated here in (34) remains unexplained:
	 (34)	 a.	 Ted’s painting of the picture in an hour
		 b.	 Ted’s painting of the picture for an hour
		 c.	 Ted’s painting of the picture with an old brush
		 d.	 Ted’s painting of the picture immediately
		 e.	 Ted’s painting of the picture and Jack’s doing so too
		 f.	 Tedi enjoyed the painting PROi of the picture.
The examples in (34) clearly show that a remarkable number of verbal modifiers are
licensed. Atelic modification is possible as (34b) shows and even telic modifiers are
grammatical (cf. 34a), which clearly shows that verbal functional structure must be
available (cf. e.g. Borer 2005b for a very elaborate account on the emergence of telic-
ity in the context of verbal functional structure). Furthermore, prepositional modi-
fiers (34c) and non-sentential adverbial modifiers (34d) are licit, the relevant form of
the do-so anaphor is perfectly acceptable (34e) and control is possible (34f).
So, it seems safe to assume that verbal functional structure is projected in
nominal gerunds. The remaining question is what exactly the relevant projections
are. The structure provided by van Hout & Roeper (1998: 186) illustrated in (25)
shows a Voice-EventP and and an aspectual projection (AspP). Voice-EventP
equals Chomsky’s (1995a and subsequent literature) vP or Kratzer’s (1996) VoiceP
11.	 I am brushing over a number of intricate details here, but I will come back to a more de-
tailed analysis of Alexidaou, Iordăchioaia & Soare’s (2010) account when dealing with pluralized
nominal gerunds in subsequent sections of this chapter.
12.	 I am just pointing this out as an inconsistency in Harley’s account and do not intend to offer
an explanation for the data in (33) at this point – but cf. the analysis in Chapter 4 for some
thoughts on verb-particle alternations in the current framework.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
and is the place where an implicit (external) argument (i.e. PRO) is projected in
the specifier position13 that can be coindexed with the matrix subject as in (34f).
Further evidence that van Hout & Roeper (1998: 184) provide is that purpose
clauses are licensed by the implicit argument in Spec, vP. Here the relevant exam-
ples are those in (35) (cf. van Hout & Roeper: ibid):
	 (35)	 a.	 The/The army’s destruction of the city to prove a point
		 b.	 The/The boy’s consumption of drugs to go to sleep
The examples in (36) illustrate that the same argument carries over to nominal
gerunds:
	 (36)	 a.	 Ted’s painting of the picture in just two days to prove a point
		 b.	 Ted’s mowing of the lawn to avoid a snappy remark from his brother
A similar case in point can be made on the basis of the following observation on
-er nominals:
	 (37)	 a.	 The mower of the lawn just walked in.
		 b.	 The lawn-mower just walked in.
The obligatory agent reading of the form in (37a), in contrast to the variable agent
vs. instrument reading of the form in (37b) can be seen as yet another indication
that PRO is base-generated in Spec, vP also in -er nominals.14 Thus, the projec-
tion of verbal functional structure and in particular of vP in nominal gerunds is
not so far off as it might seem prima facie. Additionally, Merger of v, which is
initiated by the EF on v, has the effect of verbalizing the RootP + DP complex –
thus making it a VP in very much the same way that Merger of n (discussed for
the nominal root compounds in Chapter 2) has the effect of nominalizing the
root. The only difference between the ‘verbal’ and the ‘nominal’ root is, that the
latter is intransitive, i.e. it does not have any complements, while the former is
13.	 Whether nominalizations – and thus nominal gerunds – realize an implicit agent is subject
to some debate (cf. Sichel 2009 and references therein for an overview and some arguments in
favor of this view). I here follow the view expressed e.g. in Roeper (1987; 1993; 2005); Longobardi
(2001a); Sichel (2009; 2010) that an implicit agent is projected but remain agnostic as to whether
it is PRO or pro (cf. e.g. Borer 1999) as well as to how this element is licensed under a Phase-the-
oretic approach to BPS (but cf. Herbeck in preparation for valuable comments on this).
14.	 Actually, the example in (38) is mentioned by van Hout & Roeper (1998: 188). However, in
their analysis of -er nominals no PRO is generated. Instead, -er is generated in Spec,vP from
where it seems to incorporate onto v, which is then moved all the way up to n (through Asp and
T). It is beyond the scope of this chapter to offer a detailed analysis of -er nominals, however, the
distinction between the incorporated form in (37b) and the non-incorporated nominal in (37a)
will be readdressed when comparing incorporated and non-incorporated nominal gerunds in
the next section.
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
transitive, i.e. hosting the internal argument DP (cf. Boeckx 2010b for a detailed
argument along these lines). In fact, only the verbalizing character of vP makes
the DP inside RootP an argument DP for which a thematic role can be read off at
the interfaces, because it is in a given structural configuration (cf. again Boeckx
2010b; Boeckx 2008a: 76; Pietroski & Hornstein 2009: 125–129; Borer 2005b).
In analogy to n, categorizing v is a Phase-head that induces Transfer of the
Phase-complement. Thus, the RootP/VP and the DP in its specifier position are
spelled-out. This has the effect of rendering the complement domain inert. So,
the only difference between Chomsky’s v* and the v identified here for nominal
gerunds, so far seems to be the lack of the Case Valuation property of v for nom-
inal gerunds.
As has been pointed out above already, van Hout & Roeper (1998: 183–184)
further assume that an AspP is projected on top of vP. The head of AspP is the
aspectual -ing affix and the specifier position of AspP is the place where the
telicity of the nominalization is checked in terms of Spec-Head agreement be-
tween a quantized DP and the aspectual head.	 This, however is a problematic
assumption in so far as it would require the DP, which is in the complement
domain of vP, and thus inert after Spell-Out, to move out of the already spelled-
out domain past the Phase-head into a higher specifier position of the aspec-
tual phrase.
A number of potential solutions are available here. For instance, the DP could
move through an outer specifier of vP. This, however, leads to a number of order-
ing problems inside vP and to the question when exactly this movement operation
takes place and what this means for Transfer and Valuation of the Phase-comple-
ment (cf. Grewendorf & Kremers 2009).
Alternatively, as argued in Fu, Roeper & Borer (2001), the relevant aspectual
projection, which even van Hout & Roeper (1998) associate with what Chomsky
originally identified as AgrO after all, could be generated below vP. Under this view
vP, of course, remains the place where the implicit agent is projected and it remains
the Phase-head. AspP is also still the place where telicity is checked (cf. Fu, Roeper
& Borer 2001: 567–568). However, the status of AspP is somewhat unclear then,
because the verbal aspectual projection is de facto merged with a transitive uncat-
egorized RootP. This means that either AspP has the status of a categorizing head,
akin to v and n (and thus emerges as a Phase-head), or that telicity must be checked
otherwise.15
15.	 Yet another solution would be to maintain v as a Phase-head and Merge Asp on top of it and
then extend the Phase to the Asp head by Phase-sliding (cf. Gallego 2010; Gallego & Uriagereka
2007). What is not clear, however, is how the mechanism of Phase-sliding can be accounted for
in English (cf. Gallego 2010 for conditions on Phase-sliding).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Recall, that, following Chomsky (2004; 2008), I argued for feature inheritance
from v to V in (27). Under this view, movement of the DP from the complement
position of V to its specifier position is forced:16
	 (38)	
A number of consequences automatically follow. Theta-roles can be ‘assigned’ or
rather read off the structural configuration at the C-I interface, (which can possi-
bly be associated with the need for inherent case-marking by of), the root is cate-
gorized, and unvalued φ-features are valued.
When the DP/nP remains in a projection inside the complement domain of vP
(i.e. in Spec, VP), this means that at the C-I interface the relation between this DP
and the V-head is interpreted. Thus, it seems plausible enough that this is also the
place where the telicity alternations are checked. The fact that telicity checking
actually takes place and thus hinges on the verbal properties of the root, which it
inherits from v via feature inheritance, is corroborated by the fact that verbal as-
pectual modifiers are sensitive to the nature of the internal argument also in nom-
inal gerunds, where they show the same alternations that are so well studied for
verbal structures:
	 (39)	 a.	 Ted’s cutting of lawns for two hours/*in two hours
		 b.	 Ted’s cutting of the lawn in two hours
	 (40)	 a.	 Ted cut lawns for two hours/*in two hours
		 b.	 Ted cut the lawn in two hours
In (39a) telic modifiers are not licensed, due to the bare plural form lawns, which
is the internal argument of cut. A quantized DP such as the lawn in (39b), however,
renders modification by telic modifiers possible. Thus, the same pattern that
is observed for the verbal forms in (40) emerges (cf. e.g. Borer 2005b for a very
thorough and well informed overview on what the relevant properties for the
16.	 This movement operation, it will turn out in Chapter 4 (and can already be inferred from
the analysis in Chapter 2), is less innocent than it seems. However Chapter 4 will also provide a
solution to phrasal movement that is immediately applicable to the IM operation described
here. Thus, for the time being, I will assume that this IM is, in principle, unproblematic.
vP
V
V
DP/nP
DP/nP
V
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
emergence of telicity are). Under this view, no additional projection is necessary
for telicity checking.17, 18
To summarize thus far: the licensing of verbal modifiers in nominal gerund
structures suggests that verbal functional structure is projected inside this type
of gerund. This assumption is further substantiated by facts from implied agents
and the telicity sensitivity of this construction. The uncategorized transitive
RootP is categorized by v, which hosts the -ing affix as its head and the implied
agent (i.e. PRO) in its specifier position. The crucial difference between this type
of v and verbal v is that the present type of v does not and cannot value Case on
the internal argument DP. Apart from that, v exhibits all the other properties
that verbal v also exhibits.
Thus, the structure that has been established for the nominal gerund in (41) so
far is the one in (42):19
	 (41)	 Ted’s sailing of the boat
17.	 Additionally, it is worth noticing that this view on an interrelation between telicity check-
ing and feature inheritance from v to V comports well with the broadly discussed consequences
that feature inheritance has for the version of the PIC that needs to be adopted (cf. e.g.
Grewendorf & Kremers 2009; Hornstein 2009; Boeckx 2010a; Gallego 2010). When feature in-
heritance, as argued for in Chomsky (2004; 2008) is adopted, this automatically leads to what is
known as the stronger version of the PIC (cf. Chomsky 2000) according to which the comple-
ment domain of a Phase-head is inaccessible upon Merger of that Phase-head and not upon
Merger of the next higher Phase-head (cf. Chomsky 2001). This in effect means that it is virtu-
ally impossible to have AspP projecteded outside of vP and at the same time to target the DP in
Spec, VP for telicity checking.
18.	 One more aspect that maybe cannot be regarded as particular support for the approach
taken here, but that at least does not undermine it in any way is that of analogy. Categorizing
v has the same effect that categorizing n has for the root in the nominal root compounds
discussed in Chapter 2, where intervening projections such as gender, number, person etc.
have not been adopted either (cf. also Boeckx 2010a; Narita 2009; 2011 and many others for
arguments against an all too cartographic approach) and it pertains to the ‘core structural
rhythm of syntax’ (cf. Boeckx 2010b: 91; 2008d: 5) that alternates between Non-Phase – Phase
– Non-Phase – Phase etc.
19.	 The incorporation of V onto v can be treated along the same lines that the incorporation of
the root onto the categorizing n-head has been treated in Chapter 2.3.5, i.e. as late insertion
exhibited by a mechanism of conflation along the lines of Hale & Keyser (2002) or Harley (2004),
which is in line with Roberts’ (2010) assumptions on head-movement, or as radically late
insertion as outlined in Boeckx (2010b: 90), or as a PF type of head-movement argued for in
Chomsky (2000), and thus does not cause any problem here.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	 (42)	
In the structure provided in van Hout & Roeper (1998), adapted here in (25),
nominal gerunds also project TP. Thus, even more verbal functional structure is
projected there. The main motivation for the existence of a TP that is discussed in
van Hout & Roeper (1998: 185–186) is that this is the place where the event vari-
able is closed off. In essence, van Hout & Roeper here point at the syntactic locus
that provides for the eventive character that Grimshaw (1990) attributes to nomi-
nal gerunds – and AS-nominals in general.20 In order to support their analysis van
Hout & Roeper (1998) provide the data in (43), which shows that the entailed
event in ambiguous AS-nominals (i.e. those of the -tion type) can be referred to by
a pronoun in the following sentence (cf. ibid: 185).
	(43)	 a.	 I hated the destruction of the city. It took place last summer.
		 b.	 I hated the destruction of cities. It took place last summer.
		 c.	 #I hated city-destruction. It took place last summer.
As (43a) and (43b) show, telicity does not have any impact here. Incorporated
forms, on the other hand, which in van Hout & Roeper’s (1998) account are nom-
inalized directly on top of VP (cf. ibid: 190–193) and thus do not project neither
TP nor any other verbal functional structure,21 are out, as (43c) illustrates.
Parallel examples of nominal gerunds in (44) prima facie seem to point into
the same direction:
20.	 A similar and again much more elaborate version of this line of reasoning can be derived
from Borer (2005a;b).
21.	 This is an issue that is still to be discussed and that will be substantially revised in the fol-
lowing subchapter. For the moment though, I will refrain from further comments.
vP
v
PRO
V
v
V
DP/nP
sail+ing
DP/nP
V
the boat
sail the boat
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
	 (44)	 a.	 I hated the shooting of the deer. It took place last summer.
		 b.	 I hated the shooting of deer. It took place last summer.
		 c.	 #I hated deer-shooting. It took place last summer.
What needs to be paid attention to here though is that the presence of a deter-
miner or a possessive phrase in the examples in (43c) and (44c) significantly im-
proves the acceptability of these sentences as is illustrated below:
	 (43)	 c′.	 I hated the/the army’s city-destruction. It took place last summer.
	 (44)	 c′.	 I hated the/the poacher’s deer-shooting. It took place last summer.
And at the same time omission of the determiner in (43a)-(43b) and (44a)-(44b)
renders these sentences bad:22
	 (43)	 a′.	 #I hated destruction of the city. It took place last summer.
		 b′.	 #I hated destruction of cities. It took place last summer.
	 (44)	 a′.	 #I hated shooting of the deer. It took place last summer.
		 b′.	 #I hated shooting of deer. It took place last summer.
This can be accounted for in two ways. Either incorporated structures contain a
TP just as much as non-incorporated structures do and thus can close off the event
entailment in exactly the same way, which is why the event can be referred to by a
pronoun as well. Or, alternatively, neither the incorporated nor the non-incorpo-
rated forms project a TP.
When adopting the first strategy, one question that immediately emerges is
why TP does not have the capacity of assigning nominative Case to the external
argument of v. Of course, one possible explanation could be that only finite and
overt T can license nominative Case and maybe only in combination with overt C,
as argued for in Grewendorf & Kremers (2009) (cf. also footnote 10 above). How-
ever, as Gallego (2010) notes, this leaves a number of questions unresolved.
Tellingly, even van Hout & Roeper (1998) acknowledge in a footnote that TP in
nominalizations “[o]bviously [...] differs from sentential tense” (ibid: 185).
Furthermore, following the stance reiterated in Fu, Roeper & Borer (2001),
the analysis in van Hout & Roeper (1998) indicates that sentential adverbial
modifiers are not licensed, in contrast to lower non-sentential adverbial modifi-
ers (cf. ibid: 181):
	 (45)	 a.	 *Ted’s cutting of the grass unfortunately
		 b.	 Ted’s cutting of the grass immediately
22.	 Notice that under Grimshaw’s (1990: 50) diagnostics, according to which it is AS-nominals
that can stand without a determiner, this comes as a bit of a surprise.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
In Fu, Roeper & Borer (2001) this is taken as an indication that TP is not projected,
while it receives no further mentioning in van Hout & Roeper (1998).
Thus, for the approach here, no conclusive evidence in favor of the projection
of TP can be found. Therefore, the nominalizer that eventually provides the nomi-
nal character of a nominal gerund like Ted’s sailing of the boat is merged and again,
the v + V complex incorporates onto this node, which it can by virtue of the EF on
v, as discussed in Chapter 2 already. The structure for non-incorporated non-plu-
ral nominal gerunds thus is the following:
	 (46)	
The n-head is a Phase-head just like any other categorizing little x-head is
(cf. Marantz 2001; 2007). This is on a par with what Marantz (2007: 4–6) identifies
as an instance of outer morphology, where a categorizing head is merged with an
already categorized piece of structure thus leading to two word-internal Phases.23
The next section looks at the structures of the incorporated counterparts of
the non-incorporated non-plural nominal gerunds discussed here and the struc-
ture for this type of nominal gerund will be compared to the one in (46).
23.	 Further support that this is on the right track comes from Marantz’s (2007: 6) description
of outer affixation as morphology of ‘predictable form and predictable meaning’. This dove-
tails nicely with Abney’s (1987) observation that nominal gerunds (i.e. his -ing of gerunds)
display verbal properties in so far as they ‘do[...] not permit passive without passive morphol-
ogy’ (ibid: 214).
DP
D
NP
nP
D
Ted
vP
n
v
PRO
n
sail+ing
‘s
VP
v
∅
sail+ing V
DP/nP
DP/nP
V
the boat
sail the boat
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
3.3.2	 Incorporated non-pluralized nominal gerunds
The analysis of non-incorporated non-plural nominal gerunds in Chapter 3.3.1
above, according to which this type of nominal projects verbal functional struc-
ture inside the nominalization, of course, automatically raises the question wheth-
er the incorporated counterparts of these forms pattern alike or whether verbal
functional structure is not projected inside the incorporated forms. Put differently,
the issue here is whether in incorporated nominal gerunds (henceforth INGs) the
-ing affix is a verbal/aspectual affix, on a par with the affix identified in (46) for the
non-incorporated nominal gerunds, or whether it is a nominalizer akin to the affix
suggested in e.g. Abney (1987); Siegel (1997) or Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare
(2010) and, provided it is a nominalizer, whether -ing is an instance of inner or
outer morphology (cf. Marantz 2007: 4–6) then.
To tackle this question a comparison between the nominal gerunds analyzed
in Section 3.3.1, INGs and verbal structures serves as a good starting point. Rele-
vant examples are provided in (47):
	 (47)	 a.	 Ted’s portrait-painting
		 b.	 Ted’s painting of the portrait
		 c.	 Ted paints the portrait.
Following standard reasoning (cf. e.g. Parsons 1990; Kratzer 1994; Heim & Kratzer
1998 and also more recently e.g. Pietroski & Hornstein 2009 and references there-
in) van Hout & Roeper (1998) argue that the event interpretation for the structure
in (47c) results from existential closure of the eventuality variable upon Merger of
a finite T-head. The form in (47b) in their account also receives its eventive char-
acter by existential closure when the T-head is merged (cf. the structure in (25)).24
For incorporated forms, such as those in (47a) van Hout & Roeper (1998) identify
an ambiguity between an event and a result reading. The relevant examples they
provide are the following (cf. ibid: 188):
	 (48)	 a.	 The lawn-mower just walked in.
		 b.	 The mower of the lawn just walked in.
24.	 Recall that van Hout & Roeper (1998) argue for the projection of T also in nominal gerunds
(and other types of nominalizations) and thus also argue for existential closure by an <s,t> type
head (cf. ibid: 185). However, this is already a bit problematic, because standardly only finite T
can existentially close an event variable. So unless another means of existentially closing the
event variable is found (which is easily available (cf. e.g. Pietroski & Hornstein 2009: 128–129
and comments in footnote 26 below)), this does not count as an explanation for the structure in
(47b) either and is, in fact, another indication that the non-incorporated non-pluralized nomi-
nal gerunds discussed in the previous subchapter do not contain a TP.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
While the non-incorporated form in (48b) is an event entailing form, the form in
(48a) does not entail an event of lawn-mowing. In fact, a lawn-mower can even be
a person who has not mowed a single lawn in their entire life (cf. ibid: 178–179).
The example in (49) makes the even stronger point that the incorporated form al-
ternates between an instrument and an agent interpretation:
	 (49)	 The lawn-mower is in the garage.
Under the agent reading in (49) and under the event reading in (48a), van Hout
& Roeper (1998) argue that “the eventuality variable introduced by the verb in a
compound [i.e. incorporation (LSB)] is somehow bound generically” (ibid: 189).
This move is necessary for van Hout & Roeper (1998), because under their analysis
the incorporated forms of the -er nominals in contrast to their non-incorporated
counterparts do not realize a TP, nor any other verbal functional structure in
which the event variable can be closed off alternatively.25, 26
In fact, van Hout & Roeper (1998) argue that the incorporated forms are the
result of head-incorporation via the ACP with subsequent cliticization onto a
nominal affix. In other words, the incorporation in grass-cutting or lawn-mower
proceeds via the ACP in the way illustrated in (50) and described in detail in
Chapter 2:
	 (50)	
25.	 The structure that van Hout & Roeper (1998) provide for the non-incorporated -er nominal
in (48b) is akin to the structure they provide for the nominal gerund, reproduced here in (25).
The only difference, which – although not unproblematic in its own right – we can abstract away
from here is that the -er affix is not generated as the head of AspP or vP but in the specifier posi-
tion of vP, from where it incorporates onto the verb and then moves through Asp and T to a
zero-nominalizing head in n.
26.	 So generic binding seems to be a strategy that should be available for the non-incorporated
nominal gerunds discussed in Chapter 3.3.1 (cf. also Pietroski & Hornstein 2009 for arguments
that go into the same direction) and can thus be seen as another indication that TP is not pro-
jected in the non-incorporated forms either.
V
a.
V
N
N(=ACP)
V
grass
grass
cut
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
		
In a second step, the complex V is merged with a nominalizing head, either -ing or
-er onto which the head also incorporates. The resulting structure is shown in (51)
for grass-cutting:
	 (51)	
	 [adapted from van Hout & Roeper 1998: 190]
While this account may provide what prima facie looks like a natural explanation
for why the incorporated forms do not necessarily have the event interpretation of
their non-incorporated counterparts, it does not provide an explanation for those
cases in which the INGs indeed have an eventive agent reading. Additionally, an
incorporation analysis in terms of the ACP raises some questions on the status of
the ACP and the elements merged in this position.
As discussed in Chapter 2, the hallmark of the ACP in nominal root com-
pounds is that it is a position in which copies, which are not arguments, can be
deleted (cf. Roeper & Snyder 2005).27 This is incompatible with the argument sta-
tus of the noun in the ACP and indeed, Roeper & Snyder (2005: 156) argue against
27.	 Notice though, that this was the hallmark of Roeper & Snyder’s (2005) analysis and not
of the analysis detailed here. The analysis of nominal root compounds in Chapter 2 clearly
shows that multiple insertion can easily be circumvented when compound nouns also have
an ACP.
b.
V
V
N
N(=ACP)
V
lawn
lawn
mow
nP
VP
n
V
Spec
V
N
N (=ACP)
V
n
N+V
-ing
grass-cut
grass
cut grass
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
an analysis that involves the ACP for the form in (51). Instead, in their analysis
they derive a synthetic compound that incorporates the internal argument into the
verb before incorporating the verb into the nominalizing affix. Hence, the result-
ing structure is one in which unpronounced copies of arguments are not deleted
from the derivation:
	 (52)	
		 [adapted from Roeper & Snyder 2005: 165]
Although (52) is virtually indistinguishable from (51) in structural terms,28 Roeper
& Snyder (2005: 165) argue that a distinction is to be made between the two struc-
tures, because due to the argument status of the head pen which is merged with
hold in (52) no ACP is involved. However, this distinction is not available for an
explanation of the ambiguous agent/eventive and instrument/result interpretation
discussed for (47a) and (48a), since the former cannot be accounted for neither by
(51) nor by (52).
Additionally, the question how the argument status of pen in (52) or grass in
(51) is determined remains unanswered. In the analysis for the unincorporated
forms in the preceding subchapter it has been argued that the internal argument
DP moves from the complement position of V to its specifier position, where
φ-features of V, which are passed down from v, and φ-features of the DP are
matched and valued. In this configuration, thematic relations are then read off the
structure at the C-I interface. This solution does not hold up in the incorporated
forms for two reasons though. First, the verbalizing v-head is not merged and thus
does not pass any features down to V, which is just a root at this point that does not
have any φ-features of its own. Second, the ‘argument-to-be’ does not move to
Spec, VP but is incorporated from the First-Merge position as the complement of
28.	 The only real difference is that in (51) VP projects a specifier, which is impossible to moti-
vate under a BPS account anyway.
n
n
V
V
n
V
N
N
V
V
N
pen -er
N
V
hold pen pen
hold pen
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
V. So, either the argument status must be identified otherwise or the bare N is not
an argument of V/the root.
Harley (2009: 13–16) follows the second strategy and provides an analysis in
which the incorporated elements are not arguments of the verb/root. All that is
needed for the nouns to incorporate onto the root is that they are merged in a
position from which incorporation can be launched. This is a position, which
Roeper & Siegel (1978) already identified as a first-sister position. 29
The question is, how feasible this explanation is in the current context. When
comparing the INGs that have an eventive interpretation to their non-incorporat-
ed counterparts, it turns out that the latter get a specific-interpretation, while the
former have a kind-reading:30
	 (53)	 Bobby’s cookie-eating
	 (54)	 Bobby’s eating of the cookie
The form in (54) clearly refers to a specific event. This event can be described as an
eating event that involves the cookie as a THEME and Bobby as an AGENT. The
form in (53) on the other hand, only modifies Bobby’s eating activity and contrasts
his cookie-eating with e.g. apple-eating. This parallels an observation already made
in Williams (1980) that incorporated nouns are not arguments but rather manner
phrases, which nonetheless absorb the THEME argument projection of the verb
(cf. also Baker 2009: 154 for a similar point). The following examples further il-
lustrate this:
	 (55)	 Ted enjoys opera-singing.
	 (56)	 *Ted enjoys opera-singing of Verdi.
	 (57)	 *Ted enjoys opera-singing of songs.
	 (58)	 Ted enjoys opera-style-singing of songs.
The incorporated noun opera in (55) is not an argument of the verb sing, however,
but rather indicates the kind of singing that Ted enjoys. Yet, it is not possible, to
29.	 This is basically the position of the ACP in Keyser & Roeper (1992).
30.	 It is worth noticing that a similar point can be made for nominal root compounding, where
the same pattern arises:
	 (i)	 coffee-cup
	 (ii)	 cup of coffee

When interpreting of in (ii) as the manifestation of Case (cf. e.g. Rauh 1997a;b; 1999; 2002 for
arguments in favor of analyzing of as Case) and thus as the result of of-insertion the difference
between the kind-reading in (i) and the specific-reading in (ii) follows from the same structural
configuration that is observed for (53) and (54). The only difference is that the root compounds
do not contain verbal functional structure and thus do not license a thematic interpretation
(cf. comments below and at the end of this section for further elaboration of this point).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
project an argument in an of-phrase as the examples in (56) and (57) show, unless, as
in (58), the incorporated bare noun is explicitly marked as a manner modification.
In this latter case, projecting the argument in an of-phrase is perfectly acceptable.
Thus, it can be concluded that incorporation leads to a kind-reading, but this
does not automatically entail a manner interpretation. In effect, then, the strategy
adopted in Harley (2009) does not seem to be viable, because it still does not account
for how the THEME interpretation of the incorporated element comes about.
Here Barrie (2006) offers an interesting solution. Following considerations on
antisymmetry as outlined in Moro (2000; 2007), Barrie observes that Merger of
the verb and its bare noun argument results in a PoS that is dissolved by incorpora-
tion. Thus, the structure that Barrie (2006: 154–155) provides is the following:
	 (59)	
What is interesting about this structure is that Barrie (2006) labels the incorpo-
rated form as verbal.31 This is in stark contrast to the analysis in e.g. van Hout &
Roeper (1998); Roeper & Snyder (2005) and Harley (2009). What is left unclear in
this analysis, though, is the status of the -ing suffix. It is analyzed as a verbal suffix,
but it is unclear how this verbal character is motivated in Barrie’s account.
So a few more thoughts are in order here. First of all, recall from the discus-
sion on PoS resolution in Chapter 2 that movement that is motivated solely by
(anti)symmetry is PF-movement and not movement in FLN. Furthermore, it is
important to remember that at this point the verb is just a root, while the incor-
porated element is an already categorized LI (cf. Harley 2009: 11; Barrie 2006:
151–152). Thus, the situation we are looking at here is one in which an already
31.	 Harley (2009: 18) notes that an analysis that identifies the result of incorporation as verbal
is not viable, due to the absence of forms like to truckdrive in English. This, however, is a weak
argument, since incorporation of nouns into verbs is well-attested cross-linguistically (cf. e.g.
Baker 1988; 1995 for data from Mohawk; Massam 2001; 2009 for data from Niuean; Baker 2003;
Baker, Aranovich, Golluscio 2005 for data from Mapudungun, Barrie 2006; Barrie & Spreng
2009 for data from Oneida and German; Johns 2009 for data from Inuktitut; and even Keane
2007 for English). And Harley (2009: 20–21) herself sketches an analysis in which the constraint
on noun-incorporation into the verb in English can be relegated to PF-restrictions. Another
approach that seems perfectly viable is a narrow syntactic parameter analysis in terms of Roberts
(2011a;b).
VP
VP/PoS
VP
N0
N0
V0
N0
V0
washing glass glass
washing glass
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
categorized little n-head is supposed to incorporate onto an acategorial root,
which does not bear any features other than the EF that initiates the Merge op-
eration in the first place. This is a highly unlikely scenario and begs the question
why we do not see the root incorporating onto the categorized n-head, if any-
thing. Neither under Harley’s (2004; 2009) approach to incorporation nor under
the incorporation analysis of Roberts (2010), discussed in Chapter 2, this type of
incorporation is feasible.
Actually, under a Roberts’ type of incorporation analysis the reverse scenario,
of the root incorporating onto the categorized head is the only scenario possible,
because the set of features of the root is a proper subset of the set of features of the
n-head.32 However, for the incorporation operation to take place, it must be trig-
gered by a Phase-head. The only Phase-head that is in the derivation upon Merger
of the categorized n-head and the (verbal) root is the n-head, which is already
spelled-out and which is not expected to trigger any further operations. So, it
should be expected that Merger of n and the (verbal) root does not trigger any
further operations:
	 (60)	
Merger of √β is, of course, possible by virtue of the EF on the LI β. Now, when in a
next step another Phase-head is merged, this Phase-head will categorize the root
β. Let us suppose, following Barrie (2006) that this Merger categorizes β as verbal,
i.e. that v is merged. If on the right track, we should expect that the root inherits
the φ-features from v and is verbalized from there on out. Thus, v passes its unval-
ued φ-features down to V, which matches and values its own features against those
of n. n, of course, bears valued and interpretable φ-features. Now, recall that v in
the non-incorporated structures, discussed in Chapter 3.3.1, did not have any Case
features. By analogy, v here should not have any Case-features either. This com-
ports well with the obvious absence of Case features on n.
In consequence, n only bears valued and interpretable φ-features for person
and number. V now bears unvalued and uninterpretable φ-features for person and
32.	 This is, of course the situation that obtains for the categorized n-head. This head is the
result of Merger of an uncategorized root with a categorizing n-head, which is a Phase-head.
This Phase-head triggers the incorporation and leads to the [n n[√α]] structure discussed in
Chapter 2 in great detail.
√β (=V)
?
n
n √α
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
number, which are matched against those of n.33 This is shown in (61) in analogy
to the representation provided in Chapter 2:
	 (61)	 Trigger for Agree
		 V [Pers: unval., Num: unval] [EF: unval.]	
		 n [Pers: α, Num: β] [EF: unval.]
		 After Match
		 V [Pers: α, Num: β] [EF: unval.]	
		 n [Pers: α, Num: β] [EF: unval.]
Since n does not bear any other φ-features, Matching between the Probe and the
Goal fully exhausts the φ-feature content of the Goal. This is precisely the situa-
tion, described in Roberts (2010), under which incorporation takes place. So the
scenario we are looking at is the following:
33.	 A very legitimate question at this point is what the valued and interpretable φ-features
on n are. Barrie (2006: 151) correctly points out that plural does not seem to be licensed on
the incorporated n. This is what leads him to argue that plural is projected in NumP on top
of n. This, of course, flies in the face of the analysis in Chapter 2. However, such a move
does not seem to be necessary. Remember that the incorporated elements are interpreted as
kinds. Such a kind-reading can only be established for ‘bare’ nouns (cf. e.g. Borer 2005a:
87–90). Thus, a plural marker on n would contradict the kind-interpretation (cf. also
Baker 2009: 152–153 for a different set of arguments that it is a bare but categorized n that
is incorporated).
	 In fact, Barrie (2006: 151–152) already provides a line of reasoning that goes into the same
direction when pointing out that the non-incorporated form in (i) can only be interpreted as
mass, while the incorporated form in (ii) is interpreted either as mass or as specific. In order to
get a specific-interpretation for the non-incorporated form, pluralization is necessary, as is
shown in (iii). For a specific-interpretation to emerge Num is, however, necessary. Thus, under
the specific-interpretation in (ii) NumP would have to be projected. For Barrie (2006: 154; 2010),
this would not be possible, however, because projecting NumP would dissolve the PoS and thus
prevent incorporation. So a natural solution here is that the number features are realized on n.
	 (i)	 Ted’s washing of glass
	 (ii)	 Ted’s glass-washing
	 (iii)	 Ted’s washing of glasses

Further evidence comes from German, where it is possible to project number features on the
incorporated n, and only then the specific-interpretation pointed out by Barrie emerges. So we
might be looking at a constraint of English here and not at a general ban on the projection of
number. In any case, the situation that arises here does not contradict the analysis of number in
Chapter 2.
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
	 (62)	
So, the picture that emerges here is that the incorporation of the bare n in INGs
is possible only when v is projected. This in turn implies that pace van Hout &
Roeper (1998); Roeper & Snyder (2005) and Harley (2009) INGs project verbal
functional structure. This is corroborated by the fact that INGs license (almost) all
the modifiers that the non-incorporated counterparts license:
	 (63)	 a.	 *Ted’s picture-painting in an hour
		 b.	 Ted’s picture-painting for an hour
		 c.	 Ted’s picture-painting with an old brush
		 d.	 Ted’s picture-painting immediately
		 e.	 Ted’s picture-painting and Jack’s doing so too
		 f.	 Tedi enjoyed the picture-painting PROi.
The only type of modifier that is not licensed for INGs but is licit for the non-incor-
porated forms is the telic aspectual modifier in (63a). This is totally expected, be-
cause the bare n does not have the telicity-checking properties of a quantized DP.
It is also expected that sentential adverbial modifiers are not licensed in INGs,
because there is no indication that these forms project TP or any other higher
verbal functional structure:
	 (64)	 *Ted’s grass-cutting unfortunately
The fact that atelic modifiers (63b), prepositional modifiers (63c), non-sentential
adverbial modifiers (63d), the anaphor do-so (63e) and the licensing of PRO-forms
(63f) are available for INGs strongly suggests that these project exactly the same
structure on top of the incorporation site that is also found on the non-incorporat-
ed forms. Thus, the ING in (65) has the structure in (66):
	 (65)	 Ted’s grass-cutting
v
v
VP
V n
n √
v
v
VP
V n
n √
n V
n √
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	 (66)	
The crucial difference between (66) and (46) then rests on the distinction between
incorporation – which is low in the tree in (66) and follows naturally from an in-
corporation analysis along the lines discussed in Roberts (2010) – and the lack
thereof in (46). The subtle but clear meaning differences between these two forms
are expected under the SMT. Depending on whether the internal argument incor-
porates as a bare noun from the complement position of VP or whether it moves
to the specifier position of VP, where of-insertion is instantiated, a kind- vs. a spe-
cific-reading emerges at the C-I interface, Case-assignment and theta-role assign-
ment fall in place and the verbal character of the two types of structures can be
accounted for in a uniform way.
3.3.3	 Non-incorporated pluralized nominal gerunds
As the discussion in the previous two subchapters has shown, there is good reason
to assume that English nominal gerunds contain verbal functional structure. In
this chapter the analysis is extended to those nominal gerunds that can be plural-
ized. First of all, it is to be noted that the fact that plural does occur on nominal
gerunds is sharply at odds with Grimshaw’s (1990) characterization, where the
lack of plural marking is one of the hallmarks of nominal gerunds. Still, the forms
in (67) clearly show that plural marking is available:
DP
D
NP
nP
D
Ted’s
vP
n
v
PRO
n
grass-cut+ing
‘s
VP
v
∅
grass-cut+ing nP
V
V
nP grass
grass cut
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
	 (67)	 a.	 the cuttings of grass
		 b.	 the shootings of journalists
		 c.	 the bombings of the cities
In fact, Roodenburg (2006) argues that plural marking on AS-nominals is sub-
ject to cross-linguistic variation. While Romance languages allow plural mark-
ing, this is not licit in Germanic languages. In those cases, where AS-nominals
show plural marking in Germanic, this is accompanied by a shift from an
eventive to a result interpretation for the nominalized verb and by a shift from
a THEME to a POSSESSOR interpretation for the complement DP. The relevant
examples that Roodenburg (2006) provides are the following from German
and French:34
	 (68)	 a.	 die BeobachtungEVENT von VögelnTHEME German
			 ‘the observation of birds’
		 b.	 die BeobachtungenRESULT von VögelnPOSSESSOR German
			 ‘the observations of birds’
	 (69)	 seules les observationsEVENT d’animaux adultesTHEME French
		 ont été prises on compte
		 ‘only the observations of adult animals have been taken into account’
So, Roodenburg attributes the availability of plural markers on AS-nominals to
inter-language variation, with Germanic languages patterning along the lines pre-
dicted by Grimshaw (1990) and Romance languages deviating from this pattern in
allowing plural markers on event denoting AS-nominals.
However, this does not account for the availablity of plural markers on the
English forms in (67), which have a clearly event denoting character, nor does it fit
with the analysis of Romanian in Iordăchioaia & Soare (2008) and Alexiadou,
Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010). Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010), basically
follwing the analysis in Iordăchioaia & Soare (2008), argue that Romanian has two
types of AS-nominals, one is the infinitival form that is derived from the infinitive,
the other is the supine form that is derived from the past participle (cf. Alexiadou,
Iordăchioaia & Soare 2010: 3)
	 (70)	 a.	 Infinitival nominal:
			 cînta-r-e Romanian
			 sing.inf-fem.sg
34.	 The judgements and translations are Roodenburg’s. Especially for the German forms these
will be refined later on in this chapter.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
		 b.	 Supine:
			 cînta-t Romanian
			 sing.sup
Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (ibid) further argue that only the nominalized
infinitive can be pluralized in Romanian and the supine form cannot:
	 (71)	 a.	 Infinitive:
			 cîntă-r-i Romanian
			 sing.inf.pl
		 b.	 Supine:
			 *cînta-t-uri Romanian
			 sing.sup.pl
Thus, what Roodenburg identifies as interlanguage variation here turns out to be
intralanguage variation. Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010: 3–4) further
point out that the infinitive is marked for feminine while the supine is marked
for default gender, i.e. neuter, as well as that the infinitive form is countable while
the supine form is not. Additionally, as is expected from the count vs. mass dis-
tinction, the infinitive combines only with telic verbs and thus has the ability to
project the THEME, and lead to a result interpretation, while the supine can
combine with telic and atelic verbs, rendering them all atelic via an aspectual
shift operation (cf. ibid: 7–8), which also means that it does not ever lead to a
result interpretation.
So, Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010: 4–6) conclude that the infinitive
has a nominal character, while the supine form has a verbal character. In order to
thus account for the difference between the two types of AS-nominals Alexiadou,
Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010: 6) argue for a distinction in terms of boundedness,
which is a broader notion than the purely verbal aspectual distinction and can
thus be easily transferred to the nominal domain.35 The structures that Alexiadou,
Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010: 9–10) suggest are provided in (72) for the infinitive
and in (73) for the supine form:36
35.	 In a way, this is reminiscent of van Hout & Roeper (1998) attributing the distinction to
an aspectual projection that is higher than vP in nominal gerunds. However, it has the com-
plete opposite effect with respect to the distinction between inner and outer aspect (cf. also
footnote below).
36.	 The Classifier and Number projections are the ones where telicity or rather boundedness is
checked in the infinitive. In the supine, these are absent since Number and Aspect are in com-
plementary distribution in Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010) and thus, only the atelic in-
terpretation in the aspectual projection can emerge.
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
	 (72)	
	 (73)	
Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010: 11–14) extend this pattern to English (and
German, cf. ibid: 14–15) and argue that the structure in (72) is the one for nominal
gerunds, while the structure in (73) is illustrative of verbal gerunds.37 Thus, in (72)
the -ing affix is a nominal affix that attaches under N, while in (73) it is a verbal
affix hosted by Asp. Hence, in contrast to the analysis in van Hout & Roeper (1998)
where the distinction between inner and outer aspect is conflated into one node,
as pointed out in the previous chapter, Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010:
16–17) make a point that nominal -ing operates on inner aspect exclusively, while
verbal -ing operates on outer aspect.
Now, at least the structure in (72) is clearly at odds with the analysis presented
in the preceding chapters, while the structure in (73) is almost identical to the
structure in (46), with the important caveat that the structure in (46) is the one for
nominal and not for verbal gerunds.38
37.	 In fact Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010: 18–19) argue that in English the nominal
gerund is less well-behaved than the Romanian infinitive in so far as it does not always display
Number. In particular, Number is not projected when the ClassifierP is marked as [–count]. The
[–count] value on the classifier is tied to the progressive/imperfective nature of the -ing affix.
This move, however, equates to bringing back in inner aspect (cf. ibid: 15), which allegedly plays
no role in nominal gerunds. In the analysis here, as will be shown below, inner and outer aspect
are still conflated in the same node, as argued in van Hout & Roeper (1998), thus avoiding the
complications that Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare’s analysis faces and avoiding the postulation
of stacked nominal and/or verbal projections, as argued already in Chapter 2.3.5.
38.	 It is also not clear, whether the aspectual head is a Phase-head in Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia
& Soare’s (2010) analysis. However, this seems to be the only assumption viable in a Phase-based
BPS account, since otherwise the verbal character of the whole construction could not be identi-
fied; after all, VP is just a root in (72) and in (73).
DP
NumP
D
ClassP
Num
NP
Class
VP
N
DP
AspP
D
VP
Asp
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
The principal reason for excluding verbal structure from the form in (72) in
Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010) is that nominal gerunds tolerate adjectival
modifiers only and are illicit with adverbial modifiers, while verbal gerunds be-
have the opposite way. The examples provided in Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare
(2010: 12) are the following:
	 (74)	 a.	 *The carefully restoring of the painting
		 b.	 *His prompt answering the question
However, it has been pointed out in Chapter 3.3.1 already that nominal gerunds
tolerate adverbial modifiers perfectly well, as long as they are generated in the
right periphery of the nominal gerund. This follows naturally from the structure in
(46) where it is shown that the nominalizing node is merged on top of the verbal-
izing node. Precisely because the topmost node in the nominal gerund is a nomi-
nal node it is never expected that adverbial modifiers are licit in a pre-head
position, since adverbial modifiers never occur in a nominal context, just as much
as adjectival modifiers do not occur in a verbal context as the examples in (75)
clearly illustrate:39
39.	 Additional evidence comes from Fu, Roeper & Borer (2001: 560–563) where the gram-
maticality of the (a)-examples in (i)-(iii) in contrast to the ungrammaticality of the (b)-examples
is yet another indication for the presence of verbal functional structure in nominal gerunds:
	 (i)	 a.	 The restoring of the painting carefully took six months.
		 b.	 *The restoring carefully of the painting took six months.
	 (ii)	 a.	 The removing of the evidence deliberately resulted in obscuring the case.
		 b.	 *The removing deliberately of the evidence resulted in obscuring the case.
	 (iii)	 a.	 The consulting of the expert immediately saved the project.
		 b.	 *The consulting immediately of the expert saved the project.

Additionally, if nominal gerunds did not contain any verbal structure at all, as illustrated in (72),
it would be expected that at least those adjectives that can occur in post-head positions in Eng-
lish are licensed (cf. Alexiadou, Haegeman & Stavrou 2007: 295–298). This, however is not the
case, as the examples below clearly illustrate:
	 (iv)	 a.	 *The restoring of the painting visible/present took six months.
		 b.	 *The removing of the evidence visible/present resulted in obscuring the case.
		 c.	 *The consulting of the expert visible/present saved the case.

Further evidence comes from the fact that a switch between cooccuring modificational adverbs
in post-head positions and adjectives in pre-head positions leads to an interpretational differ-
ence (cf. also Fu, Roeper & Borer 2001: 564):
	 (v)	 a.	 The careful restoring of the painting immediately was the right decision.
		 b.	 The immediate restoring of the painting carefully was the right decision.

And lastly, the fact that complements of nominal gerunds can be modified by adverbial instead of
by adjectival modifiers again highlights their verbal character (cf. also Fu, Roeper & Borer: ibid):
	 (vi)	 The consulting of the experts individually lead to interesting insights.
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
	 (75)	 a.	 The careful restoring of the painting
		 b.	 The restoring of the painting carefully
		 c.	 *The restoring the painting careful
		 d.	 His/?The promptly answering the question
		 e.	 His/The answering the question promptly
		 f.	 *His/The answering the question prompt
Thus, excluding verbal structure from nominal gerunds on the basis of their mod-
ificational properties is not very convincing, as has already been demonstrated and
argued in Chapters 3.3.1 and 3.3.2. What is still at odds though, is why these nom-
inal gerunds license plural forms, which, as Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare
(2010) correctly point out, they do.
First, it is to be noted that pluralized nominal gerunds do not show the modi-
ficational properties that their non-pluralized counterparts display:
	 (76)	 a.	 *Ted’s cuttings of the grass in an hour
		 b.	 *Ted’s cuttings of the grass for an hour
		 c.	 *Ted’s cuttings of the grass with a scythe
		 d.	 *Ted’s cuttings of the grass immediately
		 e.	 *Ted’s cuttings of the grass and Jack’s doing so too
		 f.	 *Tedi enjoyed the cuttings PROi of the grass.
None of the modifiers that are licensed under the non-pluralized forms are avail-
able here. These data are far less puzzling when we observe a subtle but clearly
identifiable distinction. The pluralized forms do not denote a simple event any
longer but they denote either a result as in (77a) or they denote a plurality of indi-
vidualized and distinguishable events as in (77b):
	 (77)	 a.	 Result:
			 The cuttings of the grass
		 b.	 Event variation:
			 The illegal shootings of the deer in the forest happened under very
different circumstances, so different fines were levied. The renderings
of the murder in court testimony are very sharply at odds.
The distinction between the result and the event variation interpretation is closely
tied to the nature of the direct object, as the examples in (78) illustrate:
	 (78)	 a.	 The roastings of coffee	
> 
different roasts, e.g. strong and mild
coffee
		 b.	 The roastings of the coffee	 > same coffee, roasted more than once
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
As the distinction between (78a) and (78b) shows only when the direct object is a
definite description the plurality of individualized and distinguishable event readings
is available. When the direct object is a bare noun, this is not possible. Additionally,
basically the same effect can be observed when the direct object is a plural form:
	 (79)	 a.	 The screenings of movies
		 b.	 The killings of journalists40
		 c.	 The firings of guns
		 d.	 The snatchings of cell phones
		 e.	 The bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki
		 f.	 The trouncings of Germany at major tournaments
There are other forms, however, where pluralization is not as felicitous as in the
examples in (79):
	 (80)	 a.	 ?The mowings of the lawn
		 b.	 ?/*The shootings of the journalists
		 c.	 *The burnings of the flag
In (80a) in principle different styles of mowing the same lawn are conceivable, but
not normal, just as much as several different shootings of the same journalists in
(80b) are a conceivable but unlikely scenario. And finally, in (80c) burning the
same flag more than once is virtually impossible, hence the *-mark.
What is significant about the difference between the forms in (79) and (80) is
that the structure is sensitive to the nature of the internal argument DP. This
strongly suggests, pace Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010), that the construc-
tion operates on inner and outer aspect just as much as its non-pluralized counter-
part, as originally argued in van Hout & Roeper (1998). Thus, it is reasonable to
assume that pluralized nominal gerunds basically have the same structural make-
up as their non-pluralized counterparts. The marginality of the forms in (80) and
the ungrammaticality of the modifiers in (76) then can be explained naturally by
following Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010) in assuming that the -ing affix in
the pluralized nominal gerunds is not an aspectual affix but rather a nominalizer,
generated under n.41 This is then the reason, why this affix, in contrast to the -ing
affix in the non-pluralized incorporated and non-incorporated forms, can host the
plural marker at all. Before looking at this in a little more detail, let us first take a
look at the structure for the forms in (79), which is provided below:
40.	 Cf. also Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010: 19) for virtually the same example, which
they describe as ‘surprisingly felicitous’.
41.	 Cf. Heck, Müller & Trommer (2008: 229–230) for an analysis of so called -ende nouns in
Swedish and Danish that is similar in spirit to the analysis suggested here.
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
	 (81)	
(81) shows that the internal argument DP, which is first merged in the comple-
ment position of the rootP, is remerged42 in its specifier. Once again, this move-
ment puts the DP into a position for φ-feature checking upon Merger of the
Phase-head v. This Phase-head has verbalizing properties and is responsible for
checking the aspectual properties. Thus, so far there are no differences discern-
ible between the derivation of the form in (81) and the form in (46).
However, in (81) the v head does not host the -ing affix. This affix is generated
in the higher Phase under the nominalizing head n. Two things follow from this
quite naturally. First, as has been pointed out already, by virtue of its nominal na-
ture, this affix can bear plural morphology. Secondly, the adverbial modifiers are
not licit, because the lower Phase to which they apply is in the complement do-
main of the higher nominal Phase and thus spelled-out. This is completely in line
with standard assumptions from Phase-theory that, once a Phase is complete, only
the edge of the Phase remains active for further computation.43 So, in essence the
analysis of pluralized nominal gerunds is completely in line with the SMT and a
Phase-theoretic approach to BPS.
Finally, let us briefly reconsider the status of the internal argument DP. As
illustrated by the data in (79) and (80) these DPs are key to the aspectual proper-
ties of the nominal gerund. However, as the structure in (81) shows, these DPs,
42.	 I use the word remerge as a synonym for IM here and throughout this study and I do not
mean to imply that there is any difference between the two operations.
43.	 Notice, by the way, that this analysis is fully compatible with both versions of the PIC (cf. e.g.
Chomsky 2000 vs. Chomsky 2001; Grewendorf & Kremers 2009 and Gallego 2010 for discussion).
DP
NP
D
vP
n
v
n
screen
the
VP
v
ings
screen V
DP/nP
DP/nP
V
movies
screen movies
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
which are interpreted as THEMES, are not generated inside the same Phase as the
-ing affix.44 This is somewhat unexpected, because the THEME argument should
be accessible within the same phrase as the -ing affix. Now, this can easily be ac-
commodated for, when assuming that the DP moves to Spec, vP. Several conse-
quences follow:
First, the DP then is in the same Phase as the -ing affix, because it is moved
from within the complement domain of the lower Phase (i.e. the vP Phase) to the
edge of that Phase (i.e. Spec, vP), which is still accessible in the higher nP Phase.
Secondly, in a framework like the present one, where Merge over Move is not an
issue (cf. Chomsky 2008) Remerger of the DP in Spec, vP automatically voids
Merger of PRO (or some other element) in this position and explains the lack
of control in the pluralized forms.45 Finally of-insertion takes place in this posi-
tion, which, as has been argued in Chapter 3.3.1, is realized at PF only as the
Spell-Out of inherent Case and thus renders the DP inactive. Under this concep-
tion the correlation between inherent Case and theta-marking (cf. Chomsky &
Lasnik 1995) can be maintained and it is immediately obvious, why pluralized
nominal gerunds are sensitive to aspectual marking but do not tolerate verbal
modifiers, while, at the same time, the internal argument DP is interpreted as
THEME at C-I.
The last section of this subchapter now looks at pluralized nominal gerunds
that are incorporated.
3.3.4	 Incorporated pluralized nominal gerunds
In the preceding chapter it is shown that recent advancements in Phase theory,
when applied to nominal gerunds, can explain a classic conundrum. The variation
between non-pluralized incorporated and non-incorporated nominal gerunds,
which have an eventive character and can be modified by a number of verbal mod-
ifiers, on the one hand and non-incorporated pluralized nominal gerunds, which
denote either a result or a plurality of individualized events, on the other hand can
be directly attributed to the position in which the -ing affix is generated, i.e. wheth-
er it is an instantiation of the lower verbal Phase-head or whether it is an instan-
tiation of the higher nominal Phase-head. In the latter case, modification by
adverbial and aspectual modifiers is unavailable, because the higher nominal
44.	 The importance of this structural configuration will become even more obvious for the in-
corporated pluralized nominal gerunds discussed in the next section.
45.	 Notice that this is highly reminiscent of the observation in Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare
(2010: 15) that internal argument DPs are interpreted as THEMEs in pluralized nominal ger-
unds in English and pluralized infinitives in Romanian.
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
Phase blocks access to the lower verbal Phase. In the former case modification is
perfectly natural, however, pluralization is out, because the -ing affix is not a nom-
inal affix and thus cannot spell-out nominal morphology.
What remains to be seen is where pluralized incorporated nominal gerunds
(henceforth: PINGs) fit into the pattern. First of all, it is to be noted that PINGs
are (somewhat unexpectedly given Grimshaw’s (1990) account) abundant and
well attested:
	 (82)	 grass-cuttings, beer-brewings, coffee-roastings, chair-stringings, movie-
screenings, gravel-pilings, paper-writings, deer-shootings, wood-splittings,
forrest-clearings, picture-framings, appointment-plannings, stone-carv-
ings, church-burnings, blood-testings, river-bendings, network-program-
mings,road-crossings,interview-schedulings,lap-timings,peace-makings,
lip-kissings, pipe-sealings, rock-throwings, ghost-sightings, heart-moni-
torings, mine-stoppings, stove-heatings, inmate-beatings, gun-firings,
book- readings, news-reportings, city-bombings,...
As was the case for their non-incorporated but pluralized counterparts, none of
the PINGs in (82) have the single-type event interpretation observed for non plu-
ralized nominal gerunds; rather they are all interpreted either as results or as a
plurality of individualized events just like their non-incorporated counterparts.
Further, even when stripped of their plural marker, many of the PINGs in (82)
still have a result46 interpretation as their preferred interpretation, as is immedi-
ately evident from the forms in (83):
	 (83)	 chair-stringing, pipe-sealing, stove-heating, picture-framing, road-cross-
ing, forrest-clearing, ...
However, for the forms in (83) a single-type event reading that corresponds to the
aspectual affix on INGs is still recoverable, as evidenced by the availability of the
relevant set of modifiers on INGs, which is out for PINGs:
	 (84)	 a.	 The picture-framing carefully
		 b.	 *The picture-framings carefully
	 (85)	 a.	 The road-crossing by bike
		 b.	 *The road-crossings by bike
46.	 Admittedly, this is a very broad usage of the term ‘result interpretation’. This is simply meant
to indicate that the forms do not have neither a single event nor a multiple but individualized
event reading and it comes close to identifying these forms as R-nominals (with an <R>-argu-
ment that is a leftover from lexicalist descriptions of these forms cf. e.g. Zwarts 1992).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	 (86)	 a.	 The stove-heating with wood
		 b.	 *The stove-heatings with wood
	 (87)	 a.	 The chair-stringing for hours
		 b.	 *The chair-stringings for hours
	 (88)	 a.	 Jack’s pipe-sealing and Bill’s doing so too
		 b.	 *Jack’s pipe-sealings and Bill’s doing so too
This is reminiscent of the observation in Chapter 2 that overt morphological mark-
ing makes a certain interpretation recoverable. Notice in this context that in the
absence of overt morphological marking by -ing the event reading is not available.
Instead, the only interpretation conceivable is one in which the incorporated
forms are interpreted as results, which thus do not license any of the modifiers in
(84a)–(88a) either:
	 (89)	 a.	 *The movie screen for hours
		 b.	 *Dick’s gun fire and George’s doing so too
		 c.	 *The stove heat with wood
		 d.	 *The lap time accurately
		 e.	 *The AFLD’s blood test thoroughly
So, in essence the PINGs in (84b)–(88b) pattern with the forms in (89). However,
it should also be noticed that there are two possible reasons for this behavior.
Either PINGs, like the forms in (89), do not contain any verbal structure and thus
are nominalized roots, or PINGs like their non-incorporated pluralized counter-
parts contain verbal functional structure that is blocked by a higher Phase.
One indication that the latter assumption is on the right track is that PINGs,
in the absence of the plural marker, display an ambiguous behavior between an
event and a result interpretation, as is illustrated by the (a)-examples in (84)–(88).
Notice further that PINGs and their non-incorporated counterparts display the
same variation that has already been observed for INGs and their non-incorporat-
ed counterparts, i.e. that the incorporated forms denote kinds while the non-in-
corporated forms display a specific-reading.
	 (90)	 a.	 grass-cuttings – kind
		 b.	 cuttings of the grass – specific
Both these observations point into the direction of verbal functional structure be-
ing projected inside PINGs.
The kind- vs. specific-interpretations again result naturally from the incorpora-
tion site, which is low in the tree and which prevents the assignment of a specific-
interpretation to the internal argument. In all subsequent movement steps, which
are akin to the movement steps in (66) for INGS, the V + N complex moves as a
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
unit. This has the effect that both the verbal root and the incorporated noun escape
the lower verbal Phase, by moving into the higher nominal Phase where the -ing
affixes bearing plural morphology is merged.
So, the structure in (91) results:
	 (91)	
In (91) the higher nominal Phase has the effect of allowing objects only when they
are incorporated. In the non-incorporated structures, discussed in Chapter 3.3.3,
it has been argued that the object DP is accessible to the higher Phase head, be-
cause it has moved to the edge of the lower Phase, however, the object DP does not
move into the edge of the higher Phase, in contrast to the incorporated object in
the PING structure in (91).
In sum then, the two-Phase analysis, which is based on the SMT and the
Phase-head vs. Phase-complement distinction, provides a syntactic analysis with
independent roots but which, as the discussion here shows, provides a semantic
analysis of the subtle aspectual behavior in nominal gerunds.
3.4	 Corroborating the analysis: Data from German
The analysis of English -ing of gerunds in Chapter 3.3 has shown that, as argued for
in Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010), a distinction needs to be made be-
tween two types of -ing affixes. One is a verbal affix that attaches in the lower verbal
Phase and one is a nominal affix that is merged in the higher nominal Phase. The
present chapter looks at the corresponding German constructions, which corrob-
orate the analysis outlined above. German has two types of nominalizations that
DP
nP
D
vP
n
n
grass-cut
the
VP
v
ing grass cut nP
V
V
nP grass
grass cut
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
correspond to English -ing of nominals: nominalized infinitives illustrated in (92)
and -ung nominals shown in (93). Both can be incorporated:
	 (92)	 a.	 das	 Spalten	 des	 Holzes German
			 the	 split-en(inf)	 the.gen	 wood.gen
			 ‘the splitting of the wood’
		 b.	 das	 Holzspalten German
			 the	 wood-split-en(inf)
			 ‘the wood-splitting’
	 (93)	 a.	 die	 Spaltung	 des	 Holzes German
			 the	 split-ung(nmlz)	 the.gen	 wood.gen
			 ‘the splitting of the wood’
		 b.	 die	 Holzspaltung German
			 the	 wood-split-ung(nmlz)
			 ‘the splitting of the wood’
Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010: 14–15) argue that the -ung nominals in
(93) correspond to English nominal gerunds, while the nominalized infinitive cor-
responds to English verbal gerunds. Based on the analysis in the preceding chap-
ter, I here digress from this analysis and argue that the nominalized infinitive
corresponds to those nominal gerunds where the -ing affix is a verbal aspectual
affix and the -ung nominals correspond to those nominal gerunds where the -ing
affix is a nominalizer. Investigations into the parallel behavior of the properties of
nominalized infinitives and verbal -ing forms, on the one hand, and -ung nominals
and nominal -ing forms, on the other hand, further substantiate this assumption.
3.4.1	 German nominalized infinitives
Nominalized infinitives instantiate the most unconstrained nominalization pat-
tern in German, since virtually any verb can be nominalized (cf. also Haider 2013:
203)47 regardless of whether it is transitive (94), intransitive (95), ditransitive (96)
or reflexive (97):
	 (94)	 das	Küssen	 der	 Frau German
		 the	kiss-en(inf)	 the.gen	 woman.gen
		 ‘the kissing of the woman’
	 (95)	 das	Laufen German
		 the	run-en(inf)
		 ‘the running’
47.	 But cf. also Blume (2004) where some very rare limitations are discussed.
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
	 (96)	 das	Geben	 des	 Geschenks	 an	 den	 Jungen German
		 the	give-en(inf)	the.gen	 present.gen	 to	 the.dat	 boy.dat
		 ‘the giving of the present to the boy’
	 (97)	 das	Rasieren German
		 the	shave-en(inf)
		 ‘the shaving’
In this respect the German forms in (94)–(97) are similar to English nominal ger-
unds, which can be formed from virtually any verb as well (cf. again Blume 2004).48
Furthermore, nominalized infinitives in German can be modified by the same
adverbial, prepositional and aspectual modifiers that are attested for those English
-ing of nominals, where the -ing affix is a verbal affix:
	 (98)	 a.	 das	 Mähen	 des	 Rasens	 für	zwei	Stunden German
			 the	 mow-en(inf)	 the.gen	 lawn.gen	for	two	 hours
			 ‘the mowing of the lawn for two hours’
		 b.	 das	 Rasenmähen	 für	zwei	Stunden German
			 the	 lawn-mow-en(inf)	 for	two	 hours
			 ‘the lawn-mowing for two hours’
	 (99)	 a.	 das	 Mähen	 des	 Rasens	 in	 zwei	Stunden German
			 the	 mow-en(inf)	 the.gen	lawn.gen	in	 two	 hours
			 ‘the mowing of the lawn in two hours’
48.	 In fact, Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010: 16), basically following Borer (2005b:
239–245), argue that in English nominal gerunds cannot be formed from achievement verbs.
The example they provide is the following (cf. ibid):
	 (i)	 *the arriving of the train

However, it is to be noted that Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010: 18–19) as well as Borer
(2005b) argue that this is not a settled pattern, because in some cases nominal gerunds of
achievement verbs can be coerced into a process reading, while in other cases even achieve-
ments with -ing of nominals are licit (cf. Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare 2010: 18):
	 (ii)	 a.	 the arriving of the yuan
		 b.	 the killing of the journalists

This, of course, begs the question how the achievement characteristics of the underlying verbs
can be accounted for in the absence of verbal functional structure in Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia &
Soare’s (2010) analysis. Crucially, Borer (2005b: 240–241) argues pace Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia
& Soare that the seemingly atelic character of -ing of nominals derived from achievement verbs
cannot be taken as an indication that nominalizer -ing and progressive -ing is the same affix –
despite apparent similarities between both types of -ing affix – thus corroborating the present
analysis. Furthermore, the alleged ungrammaticality of (iiia) (cf. Borer 2005b; Alexiadou,
Iordăchioaia & Soare 2010) is strongly undermined by the infamous McCarthy quote in (iiib):
	 (iii)	 a.	 *The exploding of the ballon
		 b.	 The exploding of the bomb
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
		 b.	 *das	Rasenmähen	 in	 zwei	Stunden German
			 the	lawn-mow-en(inf)	 in	 two	 hours
			 ‘the lawn-mowing in two hours’
	(100)	 a.	 das	 Mähen	 des	 Rasens	 mit	 einer	Sense German
			 the	 mow-en(inf)	 the.gen	 lawn.gen	with	a	 scythe
			 ‘the mowing of the lawn with a scythe’
		 b.	 das	 Rasenmähen	 mit	 einer	Sense German
			 the	 lawn-mow-en(inf)	 with	a	 scythe
			 ‘the lawn-mowing with a scythe’
	(101)	 a.	 das	 Mähen	 des	 Rasens	 gestern/heute	 abend German
			 the	 mow-en(inf)	 the.gen	 lawn.gen	yesterday/this	 evening
			 ‘the mowing of the lawn yesterday/this evening’
		 b.	 das	 Rasenmähen	 gestern/heute	 abend German
			 the	 lawn-mow-en(inf)	 yesterday/this	 evening
			 ‘the lawn-mowing yesterday/this evening’
	(102)	 a.	 Tedi	 bevorzugt	 das	 PROi	 Mähen	 des Rasens. German
			 Ted	 prefers	 the	 mow-en(inf)	 the.gen	 lawn.gen
			 ‘Ted prefers the mowing of the lawn’.
		 b.	 Tedi	 bevorzugt	 das	 PROi Rasenmähen. German
			 Ted	 prefers	 the	 lawn-mow-en(inf)
			 ‘Ted prefers the lawn-mowing’.
The examples in (98)–(102) illustrate that German nominalized infinitives license
atelic aspectual modifiers in their incorporated and their non-incorporated ver-
sions (98). Telic modifiers are licit only in non-incorporated nominalized infinitives
(cf. 99a). This is again in line with the English structures discussed in 3.3.1 and 3.3.2,
where the ungrammaticality of telic modifiers in incorporated forms is attributed to
the non-quantized status of the incorporated bare noun. The same analysis is feasi-
ble for the forms here. Furthermore, prepositional modifiers (100) and non-senten-
tial adverbial modifiers (101) are licensed in incorporated and non-incorporated
nominalized infinitives and finally nominalized infinitives also allow for control
structures as is shown in (102). Thus, it can be concluded that German nominalized
infinitives, which exist in incorporated and in non-incorporated versions pattern
quite closely with English INGs and their non-incorporated counterparts.
Adverbial modification is somewhat (more) marginal in German nominalized
infinitives than in the English counterparts discussed before:49
49.	 Cf. also Grosz (2008: 16) for further examples of nominalized infinitives in German that
allow non-sentential adverbial modification.
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
	(103)	 a.	 (?)Teds	 Mähen	 des	 Rasens	 ganz German
			 Ted.gen	mow-en(inf)	 the.gen	lawn.gen	very
			 vorsichtig/sofort
			 carefully/immediately
			 ‘Ted’s mowing of the lawn very carefully/immediately’
		 b.	 Teds	 Rasenmähen	 ganz	 vorsichtig/sofort German
			 Ted.gen	lawn-mow-en(inf)	 very	 carefully/immediately
			 ‘Ted’s lawn-mowing very carefully/immediately’
However, when comparing the forms in (103) to those that are modified by sen-
tential adverbial modifiers, as in (104), on the one hand, and to compound nomi-
nals, as in (105), on the other hand, which are both illicit, the parallelism between
the forms in (103) and their English counterparts is again immediately evident:
	(104)	 a.	 *Teds	 Mähen	 des	 Rasens German
			 Ted.gen	 mow-en(inf)	 the.gen	 lawn.gen	
			 bedauerlicherweise
			 unfortunately
			 ‘Ted’s mowing of the lawn unfortunately’
		 b.	 *Teds	 Rasenmähen	 bedauerlicherweise German
			 Ted.gen	 lawn-mow-en(inf)	 unfortunately
			 ‘Ted’s lawn-mowing unfortunately’
	(105)	 a.	 *der	Verschnitt	des	 Rasens	 sofort/vorsichtig German
			 the	 cut	 the.gen	 lawn.gen	immediately/carefully
			 ‘the cutting of the lawn immediately/carefully
		 b.	 *der	Rasenverschnitt	sofort/vorsichtig German
			 the	 lawn-cutting	 immediately/carefully
			 ‘the lawn-cutting immediately/carefully’
Thus, it can be safely concluded that there is ample evidence that German nomi-
nalized infinitives contain verbal functional structure and that the -en affix is the
equivalent of verbal -ing in English nominal gerunds.
It should be mentioned, however, that Haider (2013) takes the marginal avail-
ability of adverbial modifiers in German as opposed to their English counterparts as
an indication for a structural difference between German and English nominalized
infinitives that can be related to the head-final and head-initial properties of the
underlying verbal forms. Further evidence adduced in Haider (2013: 203–207) that
points into the same direction comes from scrambling, which is also related to a VO
vs. OV parameterization between German and English, and from the fact that only
German allows for the nominalization of verbal clusters (cf. ibid: 207–210) This lat-
ter point is taken as an indication that German does not form verb clusters that can
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
be derived from stacked VPs. To be precise, Haider does not globalize the paramet-
ric distinction with respect to headedness between German and English, rather he
argues that it is tied to head-final vs. head-inital properties of specific phrases.
I will refrain from a discussion on the validity of an LCA-based approach to
phrase structure that derives VO vs. OV ordering from movement operations
compared to a BCC-based approach in the spirit of Haider (1993) that derives the
ordering distinctions from direct encoding of directionality on the relevant head.
Suffice it to say, that the structures investigated here show a large amount of paral-
lel properties in the two languages under investigation. Further corroborating
evidence for the assumption that German nominalized infinitives correspond to
English nominal gerunds comes from the a comparison between progressive forms
and nominalized infinitives and from an investigation of the incorporated forms
(which Haider (2013: 204) distinguishes from nominalized infinitives).
Progressive forms in German display the same -en suffix that also marks the
(nominalized) infinitive (cf. e.g. Barrie 2006: 3–4; Grosz 2008; Barrie & Speng 2009):
	(106)	 a.	 beim	 Mähen	 des	 Rasens German
			 at.prog.	 mow-en(prog)	 the.gen	 lawn.gen
			 ‘while mowing the lawn’
		 b.	 beim	 Rasenmähen German
			 at.prog.	 lawn-mow-en(prog)
			 ‘while lawn-mowing’
This can be seen as further indication that German nominal infinitives project
verbal functional structure below the nominalizing node and are not simply Vs
combined with a definite article (cf. Haider 2013: 203). In particular the forms in
(106) indicate that the verbal functional structure is sensitive not only to the telic-
ity of the direct internal argument but also to the progressive vs. non-progressive
aspect of the construction, which, as argued originally in van Hout & Roeper
(1998), is reflected in a single node, i.e. v in our cases here.
Yet another indication for the verbal character of the -en affix is that nominal-
ized infinitives do not pluralize. In this respect German nominalized infinitives
pattern with the Romanian supine, which is what ultimately leads Alexiadou,
Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010: 14) to classifying German nominalized infinitives
as the counterpart of English verbal gerunds. However, as the discussion in
Sections 3.3.1–3.3.4 has shown, this rather suggests that the nominalized infinitive
patterns with English nominal gerunds with a verbal -ing affix. Additionally, it is to
be noted that the German nominalized infinitive clearly deviates from the Roma-
nian supine form in that it does not show the properties associated with a plurac-
tional operator that is attributed to the supine in the latter language. Alexiadou,
Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010: 8) argue that in Romanian the supine has a habitual
or iterative interpretation. They provide the following example (cf. ibid: 7):
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
	(107)	 Clipitul	 Mariei	 în	acest	moment	e	 enervant. Romanian
		 blink.sup-the	Mary.gen	in	this	 moment	is	irritating
		 ‘Mary’s blinking in this moment is irritating.’
The corresponding German nominalized infinitive is possible with an iterative
reading (108), however, a habitual interpretation is blocked (109) and the most
straightforward interpretation is one that is neither iterative nor habitual (110):
	(108)	 Marias	 wiederholtes	Blinzeln	 in	diesem	Moment	war German
		 Mary.gen	repeated	 blink-en(inf)	in	this	 moment	was	
		 irritierend.
		 irritating
		 ‘Mary’s repeated blinking in this moment was irritating’.
	(109)	 *Marias	 übliches	Blinzeln	 in	diesem	Moment	war German
		 Mary.gen	usual	 blink-en(inf)	in	this	 moment	was	
		 irritierend.
		 irritating
		 ‘Mary’s usual blinking in this moment was irritating’.
	(110)	 Marias	 einmaliges	Blinzeln	 in	diesem	Moment	war German
		 Mary.gen	once	 blink-en(inf)	in	this	 moment	was	
		 irritierend.
		 irritating
		 ‘Mary’s blinking once in this moment was irritating’.
Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010: 8–9) further argue that the supine lacks
multiplicity effects with indefinites, shows distributional effects with plurals and is
incompatible with once only frequency adjuncts. The relevant examples are pro-
vided in (111)–(113) respectively (cf. ibid: 8):
	(111)	 *ucisul unui jurnalist de către mafia politică Romanian
		 kill.sup-the a.gen journalist by mafia political
	(112)	 ucisul jurnaliştilor de către mafia politică Romanian
		 kill.sup-the journalists-the.gen by mafia political
		 ‘the killing of journalists by the political mafia’
	(113)	 cititul romanului (*dintr-o răsuflare) Romanian
		 read.sup-the novel.gen in one breath
		 ‘the reading of the novel in one sitting’
Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare argue that the form in (111) is ungrammatical
because “the supine of the one-time event kill is incompatible with a singular
theme, since the P[luractional] O[perator] in the supine suggests a plurality of kill-
ing events with the same theme” (ibid: 8). What the pluractional operator cannot
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
trigger, though, is a set of killing events that involves a different journalist each
time, unless the THEME argument is in the plural, as in (112). In this latter case a
distributive reading emerges, which thus means that (112) is interpreted as several
events in which one or more journalists were killed.
When comparing the above forms to German nominalized infinitives, it is im-
mediately obvious that these do not pattern with the Romanian supine in this respect:
	(114)	 das	Töten	 eines	 Zivilisten	 durch	Gaddafis	 Schläger German
		 the	kill-en(inf)	a.gen	civilian.gen	by	 Gaddafi.gen	thugs	
		 ‘the killing of a civilian by Gaddafi’s thugs’
	(115)	 das	Töten	 der	 Zivilisten	 durch	Gaddafis German
		 the	kill-en(inf)	the.gen	civilians.gen	by	 Gaddafi.gen	
		 Schläger
		 thugs
		 ‘the killing of the civilians by Gaddafi’s thugs’
	(116)	 das	Besprechen	 des	 Romans	 in	nur	 einer	Sitzung German
		 the	discuss-en(inf)	the.gen	novel.gen	in	just	one	 sitting	
		 ‘the discussing of the novel in just one sitting’
The nominalized infinitive in German does not have a pluractional operator that
bars indefinite THEME DPs, as shown in (114). Nor is the form in (115) inter-
preted as one in which the killing event is interpreted distributively and the form
in (116) is licit under a once only interpretation, just as much as the form in (117):
	(117)	 das	Töten	 der	 Zivilisten	 mit	 nur	 einer	Bombe German
		 the	kill-en(inf)	the.gen	civillians.gen	with	just	one	 bomb
		 ‘the killing of the civilians with just one bomb’
Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010: 9) conclude from the properties of the
Romanian supine forms discussed in (111)–(113) that it is the pluractional opera-
tor that is responsible for the unboundedness of the supine. Thus, the pluractional
operator is responsible for turning a telic verb into an atelic one and the character-
istics described above can be regarded as epiphenomena.
In German, however, these characteristics do not apply to the nominalized
infinitive, as the examples in (114)–(117) show. This can be taken as further indi-
cation that the projection of verbal functional structure, at least in the German
forms, is indeed sensitive to inner and outer aspect, as argued for by van Hout &
Roeper (1998).
Finally, let us consider the incorporated structures of German nominalized
infinitives in a bit more detail. As in English, only the (accusative marked) direct
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
internal argument can be incorporated in German. External arguments, for in-
stance, cannot be incorporated:
	(118)	 a.	 Der Mann läuft. German
			 The man runs.
		 b.	 das	 Laufen	 des	 Mannes German
			 the	 run-en(inf)	 the.gen	 man.gen
			 ‘the running by the man’
		 c.	 *das Mannlaufen German
			 the man-run-en(inf)
When the intransitive verb laufen is transitivized,50 the internal argument of the
transitive structure is available for incorporation:
	(119)	 a.	 Der Mann läuft einen Marathon. German
			 The man runs a marathon.
		 b.	 das	 Laufen	 des	 Marathons	 German
			 the	 run-en(inf)	 the.gen	 marathon.gen	
			 (von	 dem	 Mann)51
			 (by	 the	 man)
			 ‘the running of the marathon by the man’
		 c.	 das	 Marathonlaufen	 des	 Mannes German
			 the	 marathon-run-en(inf)	 the.gen	 man.gen
			 ‘the running of the marathon by the man’
This is again in line with the analysis of INGs in Chapter 3.3.2. Only the internal
argument can be incorporated, because the internal argument is merged with the
(verbal) root and incorporates from there, once the rootP is verbalized and has its
φ-features passed down from the Phase-head v via feature inheritance.
Barrie (2006) and Barrie & Spreng (2009) motivate incorporation in German
progressives differently. In both accounts incorporation is motivated by consider-
ations on antisymmetry (cf. Moro 2000; Kayne 1994). Prima facie, this seems fea-
sible for the forms discussed here as well. Only the direct internal argument is
available for incorporation, because only here the Merger of the noun and the root
creates a PoS. Barrie (2006: 156–162) and Barrie & Spreng (2009: 10–12) argue
50.	 Of course, the verb is not really transitivized. Rather the root lauf is either merged with a
transitive v as in (119) or with an intransitive v as in (118).
51.	 In German nominalized infinitives the external argument can be expressed either in a von
or in a durch phrase. Grosz (2008) associates this with the ergative-absolutive pattern found in
German nominalizations with fronted argument DPs (cf. however Alexiadou, Anagnostopou-
lou & Schäfer 2009 for an argument against this).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
that the PoS results for bare nouns just as much as for plural marked nouns. The
latter are analyzed as projecting NumberP (cf. ibid):
	(120)	 a.	 beim	Apfelessen German
			 at	 apple-eat-en(prog)
			 ‘at apple-eating’
		 b.	 beim	Äpfelessen German
			 at	 apple.pl-eat-en(prog)
			 ‘at apples-eating’
The structures for the forms in (120) are provided in (121) (cf. again Barrie 2006:
160; Barrie & Spreng 2009: 384–385):52
	(121)	
Both structures violate the LCA and thus trigger the incorporation operations out-
lined in (121) above. However, Barrie (2006) notes that there is an interpretational
difference between (121a) and (121b) that is highly reminiscent of the analysis for
52.	 Like Barrie (2006) and Barrie & Spreng (2009) I here abstract from complications induced
by verb-final characteristics of German. Under a PBS analysis where Merge creates an unor-
dered set, this should not play any role anyway.
N
VP
a.
VP
V
Apfel N
essen Apfel
NumP
VP
b.
VP
V NumP
essen
N0
N0
NumP
Apfel
[+ front] Apfel
Num0
N0
[+ front] Apfel
Num0
NumP
Apfel
N0
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
the ING form glass-washing discussed in (59) above. In this context Barrie argues
that the absence of a NumP on glass in INGs leads to the fact that this form can be
interpreted either as a mass or as a count term. This, however, means that in English
the absence of NumP in INGs leads to the same interpretational results that is
obtained from the projection of NumP in German progressives.53 This is some-
what unlikely.
What casts further doubt on the validity of the analysis laid out in Barrie
(2006) and Barrie & Spreng (2009) is that Barrie (2006: 160) argues that plural
forms can only be incorporated in German progressives when the plural is formed
derivationally instead of inflectionally. In the example in (120b/121b) the plural
on Apfel is formed derivationally and thus this form is acceptable. Barrie (2006:
161) ties the distinction between derivational and inflectional plural to two differ-
ent places for the projection of NumP, one below nP and one above nP. In conse-
quence only derivational number, which is projected below nP is available for
incorporation, while inflectional number is illicit. Barrie (cf. ibid) provides the
following example:
	(122)	 *beim	Autoskaufen German
		 at	 car.pl-buy-en(prog)
		 ‘at cars-buying’
However, it should be noted that this distinction does not hold up (if it exists at
all). The form in (122) may be semantically odd, because it is somewhat unusual
that anyone buys more than one car at any given time, however, when conceiving
of the buying event as one in which toy cars are the objects being bought (122) is
perfectly natural, just as much as the form in (123) is: 54
	(123)	 beim	Autosgucken German
		 at	 car.pl-look-en(prog)
		 ‘at cars-looking’
The same holds for the forms listed in (124)–(128), which all alternate perfectly
naturally between an (inflectional) plural and a bare singular form:
53.	 In fact, Barrie (2006: 155) argues that the non-incorporated form washing of glass does not
only project NumP but also DP and is interpreted as mass nevertheless. Both, assumptions are
problematic in their own right. First of all, it is not likely that only under the projection of NumP
a mass-interpretation can emerge (cf. Borer 2005a). Second, the projection of DP on top of
NumP – which in effect prevents incorporation because no PoS ensues – is just as unlikely for
the English forms as it is for the German forms (cf. also Barrie & Spreng 2009: 183 where the
projection of DP in German progressives is explicitly ruled out).
54.	 Looking at several cars before actually buying one is easily conceivable and the form is ab-
solutely fine.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	(124)	 a.	 beim	Kloputzen German
			 at	 toilet-clean-en(prog)
			 ‘at toilet-cleaning’
		 b.	 beim	Klosputzen German
			 at	 toilet.pl-clean-EN(prog)
			 ‘at toilets-cleaning’
	(125)	 a.	 beim	Fotobetrachten German
			 at	 photo-view-EN(prog)
			 ‘at photo-viewing’
		 b.	 beim	Fotosbetrachten German
			 at	 photos-view-en(prog)
			 ‘at photos-viewing’
	(126)	 a.	 beim	Radiozerlegen German
			 at	 radio-disassemble-en(prog)
			 ‘at radio-disassembling’
		 b.	 beim	Radioszerlegen German
			 at	 radio.pl-disassemble-en(prog)
			 ‘at radios-disassembling’
	(127)	 a.	 ?beim	Logovergleichen55 German
			 at	 logo-compare-en(prog)	
			 ‘at logo-comparing’
		 b.	 beim	Logosvergleichen German
			 at	 logo.pl-compare-en(prog)
			 ‘at logos-comparing’
	(128)	 a.	 (?)beim	 Mottoaussuchen German
			 at	 motto-select-en(prog)
			 ‘at motto-selecting’
		 b.	 beim	Mottosaussuchen German
			 at	 motto.pl-select-en(prog)
			 ‘at mottos-selecting’
What the examples from German progressives clearly illustrate is that singular and
plural bare nouns can be incorporated and that an interpretational difference
emerges depending on which form is incorporated. The same applies to nominal-
ized infinitives:
55.	 The question mark on this form in all probablity results from the semantics of vergleichen
(‘to compare’), which requires two objects – and hence a plural form – for the action to be
performed.
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
	(129)	 a.	 das	 Straßekreuzen German
			 the	 street-cross-en(inf)
			 ‘the street-crossing’
		 b.	 das	 Straßenkreuzen German
			 the	 street.pl-cross-en(inf)
			 ‘the streets-crossing’
The form in (129a) denotes an event of crossing one or more streets, while the form
in (129b) clearly denotes an event of crossing more than one street or crossing one
and the same street multiple times. This is perfectly in line with the analysis here,
where the incorporated (singular or plural) noun is interpreted as a Phase that is sent
to Spell-Out prior to incorporation (and even prior to Merger with the root). So,
both bare singular and bare plural nPs are available for incorporation – as expected.
Now, it is still possible to argue that incorporation is triggered by antisymme-
try. However, as argued in Chapter 2 already, antisymmetry driven incorporation
strongly suggests that this is an instance of a PF-operation rather than an opera-
tion within narrow syntax. Yet, unless unmotivated concepts like the First Sister
Principle (cf. Roeper & Siegel 1978; Harley 2004) are revived, a PF account cannot
be excluded – although the observed kind vs. specific distinction already discussed
for the English structure, which also holds for German nominalized infinitives, of
course, points into the direction of narrow syntax.
Evidence in favor of a narrow syntactic analysis comes from ditransitive struc-
tures. Prima facie the forms in (130) look like counter-evidence (cf. also Haider
2013: 205–206):
	(130)	 a.	 Der	 Mann	 gibt	 dem	Jungen	 das	 Geschenk. German
			 The	 man.nom	 gives	 the	 boy.dat	the	 present.acc
			 ‘The man gives the boy the present’.
		 b.	 das	 Geben	 des	 Geschenks	 an	 den	Jungen German
			 the	 give-en(inf)	the.gen	 present.gen	 to	 the	 boy
			 (durch	 den	Mann)
			 (by	 the	 man)
			 ‘the giving of the present to the boy (by the man)’
		 c.	 das	 Geschenkgeben	 an	 den	Jungen	 German
			 the	 present-give-en(inf)	 to	 the	 boy
			 (durch	 den	 Mann)
			 (by	 the	 man)
			 ‘the giving of the present to the boy (by the man)’
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
		 d.	 *das	Jungegeben	 des	 Geschenks	 German
			 the	boy-give-en(inf)	 the.gen	 present.gen
			 (durch	den	 Mann)
			 (by	 the	 man)
			 ‘the boy-giving of the present (by the man)’
As the examples in (130) show, incorporated nominalized infinitives derived from
the transitive verb geben are only licit when the direct internal argument, which is
marked for accusative Case in the verbal structure in (130a), is incorporated. In-
corporating the indirect internal argument is not possible (130d). English INGs
display the same pattern:
	(131)	 a.	 The man promised the boy a present.
		 b.	 the promising of a present to the boy
		 c.	 the present-promising to the boy
		 d.	 *the boy-promising of the present
Once again, it looks like only the argument that is merged in a symmetric c-com-
mand relation to the (verbal) root can be incorporated in both languages, which
further supports a PF dynamic antisymmetry style analysis.
However, consider the following pairs in this context:
	(132)	 a.	 Der See spiegelt den Berg. German
			 ‘the lake reflects the mountain’.
		 b.	 Der See reflektiert den Berg. German
			 ‘the lake reflects the mountain’.
Only the form in (132a) can be reflexivized:
	(133)	 a.	 Der Berg spiegelt sich im See. German
			 ‘the mountain reflects SELF in the lake’.
		 b.	 *Der Berg reflektiert sich im See. German
			 ‘the mountain reflects SELF in the lake’.
Now, when forming the incorporated nominalized infinitive for the form in (133a)
it is only possible to incorporate the reflexive and not the direct internal argument:
	(134)	 a.	 das	 Sich-spiegeln	 des	 Berges	 im	 See German
			 the	 SELF-reflect-en(inf)	 the.gen	 mountain.gen	in	 the lake
			 ‘the self-reflecting of the mountain in the lake’
		 b.	 *das	Bergspiegeln	 im	 See German
			 the	mountain-reflect-en(inf)	in	 the lake
			 ‘the mountain-reflecting in the lake’
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
This pattern cannot be explained by a PF-incorporation analysis that is based on
antisymmetry. Nor can the following pattern be accounted for under this analysis:
	(135)	 a.	 Er führt die Touristen durch die Stadt. German
			 He.nom guides the tourists.acc through town
			 ‘He guides tourists through town.’
		 b.	 Das	 Stadtführen	 der	 Touristen German
			 the	 town-guide-en(inf)	 the.gen	 tourists.gen
			 ‘the town-guiding of the tourists’
		 c.	 *Das	 Touristenführen	 durch die Stadt German
			 the	 tourist-guide-en(inf)	 through town
			 ‘the tourist-guiding through town’
Thus, neither the reflexive incorporated nominalized infinitive in (134) nor the
incorporated nominalized infinitive in (135) can be explained by PF-approaches
to incorporation. In both cases the ‘wrong’ argument is incorporated. In (134) it is
expected that the direct internal argument can be incorporated, instead, only the
reflexive form is available for incorporation and in (135) it is not the accusative
marked internal argument either that is incorporated. Rather the argument that is
introduced in a prepositional phrase is available for incorporation.
This is less puzzling when considering how the arguments are introduced into
the derivation. The reflexive in (134) is introduced as an additional coreferential
argument – thus marking the causative-inchoative alternation. Coreferentiality is
established between the internal argument and the reflexive. This is reminiscent of
a low applicative head introduced below the root (cf. Pylkkänen 2000; 2002):56
	(136)	
Now, when the root is verbalized and has its φ-features passed down from the Phase-
head v, it is perfectly natural that V probes the additional argument introduced in
the specifier of the applicative head, i.e. β, and thus incorporates this element. The
incorporated argument in (135) is likewise introduced by an applicative head. How-
ever, this applicative head is a high applicative (cf. also Boeckx 2008a: 132–133):
56.	 Ideas similar in spirit can also be found e.g. in Hale & Keyser (2002) or in Ramchand
(2008). Making use of Pylkkänen’s applicative heads here is not to be seen as indisputable. Any
of the other analyses mentioned here should lead to the same results.
V
VP
ApplP
β Appl
Appl α
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	(137)	
This applicative head blocks feature inheritance from v to V and thus makes only
the higher argument, introduced in the specifier of the high applicative head,
available for incorporation. Thus, the data that are puzzling under an antisymme-
try driven approach to incorporation can be explained under a syntactic analysis
of incorporation in nominalized infinitives. So, in sum this does not only corrobo-
rate the incorporation analysis outlined in Chapter 3.3.2, but it also provides fur-
ther evidence for the existence of verbal functional structure in the forms that are
discussed here.57 This is also an issue for the other type of nominalization found in
German that corresponds to those English nominal gerunds where the -ing suffix
is a nominalzer, i.e. -ung nominals. These are discussed in the next section.
3.4.2	 German Nominalizations in -ung
The second type of nominalization to be discussed here are -ung nominals. These
correspond to those nominal gerunds in English, where the -ing affix is a nominal
affix that is attached in the higher Phase-cycle, i.e. PINGs and their non-incorpo-
rated counterparts. Just like in English, -ung nominals in German exist in incorpo-
rated and non-incorporated versions:
	(138)	 a.	 die	 Kreuzung	 der	 Straßen German
			 the	 cross-ung(nmlz)	 the.gen	 streets.gen
			 ‘the crossing of the street/intersection’
57.	 Notice that there is one further bit of evidence that this is on the right track. In derived
structures with particles in English incorporation of the THEME argument is likewise impos-
sible if the particle is projected – although this does not have any impact on the theta-role of the
incorporated argument:
	 (i)	 apple-picking
	 (ii)	 *apple-picking up (notice the grammaticality of [pick apples up])

Cf. also Chapter 4 for an analysis of verb-particle constructions and their nominalizations in the
current framework.
v
vP
ApplP
β Appl
Appl VP
V α
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
		 b.	 die	 Straßenkreuzung German
			 the	 street-cross-ung(nmlz)
			 ‘the street-crossing/intersection’
What is striking about German -ung nominals though is that, like their English
counterparts, they are much more restricted than the nominalized infinitives.
Thus, by far not in every instance in which a nominalized infinitive can be formed
is there an -ung nominal as well. For instance, none of the nominalized infinitives
that are listed in (94)–(97) can be nominalized by the -ung form in German:
	(139)	 a.	 *die	 Küssung	 der	 Frau German
			 the	kiss-ung(nmlz)	 the.gen	 woman.gen
			 ‘the kissing of the woman’
		 b.	 *die	 Laufung German
			 the	 run-ung(nmlz)
			 ‘the running’
		 c.	 *die	 Gebung German
			 the	 give-ung(nmlz)	
			 ‘the giving’
		 d.	 *die	 Rasierung German
			 the	shave-UNG(nmlz)
			 ‘the shaving’
Thus, despite the apparent ban of -ung attachment to intransitives (as in (139b)),
this does not seem to be a sufficient criterion, because not all transitive, ditransi-
tive or reflexive verbs can be nominalized with -ung either, as the examples in
(139a), (139c) and (139d) respectively illustrate. The examples in (140) might sug-
gest that blocking from zero-derived58 nominals is what rules out -ung nominals:
	(140)	 a.	 der	 Kuss German
			 the	 kiss
			 ‘the kiss’
		 b.	 der	 Lauf59 German
			 the	 run
			 ‘the run’
58.	 Of course, zero-derivation is an obvious misnomer here, since these forms are most cer-
tainly the product of Merger of a bare root with a nominalizing n-head, instead of being derived
from a verb by attachment of a zero-affix. I just use the term for convenience, respecting the long
and well-established research tradition that provided the name for these forms.
59.	 This particular form here may of course be illicit because it is derived from an intransitive
verb, as indicated above.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
In both cases the bare root is merged with a nominalizing head, which leads to a
result nominal and while blocking may potentially play a role here, it should be
noted that there are a number of forms that cannot form -ung nominals, al-
though there is no zero-derived form that may serve as a candidate for blocking.
The forms in (139c) and (139d) are a case in point and the forms in (141) are
further examples:60
	(141)	 *die Singung, die Schreibung, die Liebung, die Jagung, die Gehung, die
Sehung, die Essung, die Kratzung, die Kommung, ....
When limiting -ung nominalization to transitive verbs, it turns out that this may
well be a necessary criterion, but it is not a sufficient criterion either. Quite a num-
ber of transitive verbs resist -ung affixation, however, when these verbs are pre-
fixed, -ung nominalization is licit:
	(142)	 schlagen	 *die Schlagung	 zerschlagen	 die Zerschlagung
		 spitzen	 *die Spitzung	 zuspitzen	 die Zuspitzung
		 schreiben	 *die Schreibung	 verschreiben	 die Verschreibung
					 abschreiben	 die Abschreibung
					 beschreiben	 die Beschreibung
					 ausschreiben	 die Ausschreibung
		 rufen	 *die Rufung	 berufen	 die Berufung
					 abrufen	 die Abrufung
		 gehen	 *die Gehung	 umgehen	 die Umgehung
					 begehen	 die Begehung
		 bauen	 *die Bauung	 bebauen	 die Bebauung
		 suchen	 *die Suchung	 untersuchen	 die Untersuchung
Whether the prefix can be stranded or not does not seem to bear any consequenc-
es for the availability of -ung, since both types of prefixes can be found on -ung
nominalization as can be seen from the examples in (143)–(145):
	(143)	 a.	 er schreibt den Auftrag aus German
			 ‘he bids on a contract’
		 b.	 *er ausschreibt den Auftrag German
	(144)	 a.	 er beschreibt den Weg German
			 ‘he gives directions’
		 b′.	 *er schreibt den Weg be German
60.	 Again, some of the forms in (141) may be out, because they are intransitive. However, all of
these forms can also be used transitively and still they are out, which does not even change when
the direct object of the transitive is projected.
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
	(145)	 a.	 die	 Ausschreibung	 des	 Auftrags German
			 the	 bid-ung(nmlz)	 the.gen	 contract.gen
			 ‘the bidding of the contract’
		 a′.	 die	 Auftragsausschreibung German
			 the	 contract-bid.ung(nmlz)
			 ‘the contract-bidding’
		 b.	 die	 Beschreibung	 des	 Weges German
			 the	 give-UNG(nmlz)	the.gen	 directions.gen
			 ‘the giving of directions’
		 b′.	 die	 Wegbeschreibung German
			 the	 directions-give-ung(nmlz)
			 ‘the (giving of) directions’
As the incorporated and non-incorporated -ung nominals in (145) illustrate, these
can be formed from those transitive prefixed verbs that strand the prefix as well as
from those that cannot strand the prefix.61
Prefixation is generally analyzed as inducing telicity (cf. e.g. Borer 2005b).
However, it should be noted that some of the verbs in (142) (e.g. bauen ‘build’)
are telic predicates even before prefixation. Additionally, Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia
& Soare (2010: 14–15) argue that -ung affixation is possible with telic and atelic
verbs. They further argue that atelic verbs in -ung cannot be pluralized, while telic
verbs can (cf. ibid). The relevant examples they provide are the following:
	(146)	 a.	 die	 Beobachtung	 der	 Vögel German
			 the	 observe-ung(nmlz)	 the.gen	 birds.gen
			 ‘the observing of the birds’
		 b.	 die	 Beobachtungen	 der	 Vögel German
			 the	 observe-ung(nmlz).pl	 the.gen	 birds.gen
			 ‘the observings of the birds’
Following Roodenburg (2006), Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010) point out
that in (146a) the argument DP can be interpreted as a THEME, while this is not
possible for the pluralized form in (146b), due to the atelicity of the underlying
verb. If the verb is telic, however, a THEME interpretation is still possible for the
internal argument DP even when the -ung nominal is pluralized (cf. ibid: 15):
61.	 Another way of putting this is, of course, to say that it does not matter whether these are
particle verbs or prefixed verbs. However, at this point I do not want to commit to this distinc-
tion in German and therefore make use of the more neutral description provided above. A more
fine-grained distinction is orthogonal to the point to be made here, since as (143) and (144)
show, both patterns can be input to -ung nominalization.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	(147)	 a.	 die	 Tötung	 der	 Protestierenden German
			 the	 kill-ung(nmlz)	 the.gen	 protesters.gen
			 ‘the killing of the protesters’
		 b.	 die	 Tötungen	 der	 Protestierenden German
			 the	 kill-ung(nmlz).pl	 the.gen	 protesters.gen
			 ‘the killings of the protesters’
This alternation leads Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia & Soare (2010: 15) to the conclu-
sion that verbal functional structure is not projected in -ung nominals. Instead, the
alternation is accounted for in terms of boundedness. However, this analysis has
already been refined for the corresponding English forms in Chapters 3.3.3 and
3.3.4. Further, consider the forms in (148) in this context:
	(148)	 a.	 die	 Sichtung	 der	 Wale German
			 the	 sight-ung(nmlz)	 the.gen	 whales.gen
			 ‘the sighting of the whales’
		 b.	 die	 Sichtungen	 der	 Wale German
			 the	 sight-ung(nmlz).pl	 the.gen	 whales.gen
			 ‘the sightings of the whales’
The examples in (148a) and (148b) illustrate that -ung nominals that are formed
from atelic verbs can also be pluralized and maintain a THEME interpretation for
the argument DP.62 It is not clear, how this can be accounted for under an analysis
in which verbal functional structure is not projected.
Thus, the examples in (148) can be taken as an indication that German nom-
inalizations in -ung project verbal functional structure, just like their English
counterparts (i.e. PINGs and their non-incorporated counterparts). Further par-
alleling their English counterparts, incorporated and non-incorporated -ung
nominals in German do not license non-sentential adverbial modifiers, preposi-
tional modifiers, or aspectual modifiers, as is illustrated by the forms in (149) and
(150 respectively):63
62.	 Actually, I think that pace the analysis in Roodenburg (2006) and Alexiadou, Iordăchioaia
& Soare (2010) this is possible for the form in (146b) too. A – admittedly small scale and ad hoc
– survey among native speakers of German confirms this observation.
63.	 I here use the plural marker for expository purposes only, indicating that these are the
forms that correspond to those nominal gerunds in English where the -ing affix is a nominalizer
thus clearly dissociating them from instances of verbal -ing nominal gerunds.
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
	(149)	 a.	 *die	 Spaltungen	 des	 Holzes	 gestern German
			 the	 splitt-ung(nmlz).pl	 the.gen	 wood.gen	yesterday
			 ‘the splittings of the wood yesterday’
		 b.	 *die	 Spaltungen	 des	 Holzes	 in	 zwei	 German
			 the	 splitt-ung(nmlz).pl	 the.gen	 wood.gen	in	 two	
			 Tagen
			 days
			 ‘the splittings of the wood in two days’
		 c.	 *die	 Spaltungen	 des	 Holzes	 für	zwei German
			 the	 splitt-ung(nmlz).pl	 the.gen	 wood.gen	for	two	
			 Tage
			 days
			 ‘the splittings of the wood for two days’
		 d.	 *die	 Spaltungen	 des	 Holzes	 mit	 der German
			 the	 splitt-ung(nmlz).pl	 the.gen	 wood.gen	with	an
			 Axt
			 axe
			 ‘the splittings of the wood with an axe’
		 e.	 *die	 Spaltungen	 des	 Holzes	 vorsichtig’64 German
			 the	 splitt-ung(nmlz).pl	 the.gen	 wood.gen	carefully
			 ‘the splittings of the wood carefully’
	(150)	 a.	 *die	 Holzspaltungen	 gestern German
			 the	wood-splitt-ung(nmlz).pl	 yesterday
			 ‘the wood-splittings yesterday’
		 b.	 *die	 Holzspaltungen	 in	 zwei	Tagen65 German
			 the	 wood-splitt-ung(nmlz).pl	 in	 two	 days
			 ‘the wood-splittings in two days’
		 c.	 *die	 Holzspaltungen	 für	zwei	Tage German
			 the	 wood-splitt-ung(nmlz).pl	 for	two	 days
			 ‘the wood-splittings for two days’
		 d.	 *die	 Holzspaltungen	 mit	 der	 Axt German
			 the	 wood-splitt-ung(nmlz).pl	 with	an	 axe
			 ‘the wood-splittings with an axe’
64.	 As discussed for nominalized infinitives in the preceding chapter adverbial modification in
German is much more restricted than in English, hence (149e) and (150e) may not be relevant
examples here. They are listed for completeness regardless.
65.	 Just like in English PINGs the ungrammaticality of this form is expected, because incorpo-
rated forms should not be able to license telic modifiers anyway.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
		 e.	 *die	 Holzspaltungen	 vorsichtig German
			 the	 wood-splitt ung(nmlz).pl	 carefully
			 ‘the wood-splittings carefully’
The inaccessibility of these modifiers need not be an indication for the lack of ver-
bal functional structure in -ung nominals though. As noticed before for English
PINGs and their non-incorporated counterparts this is perfectly natural when the
-ung affix is a nominalizing affix that is merged under an n-node. This n-node in-
stantiates a higher Phase-head and thus blocks access to lower Phases and modifi-
cation is thus not possible.66
If this is on the right track, further evidence for the existence of verbal func-
tional structure should be available. This is indeed the case. First of all, German
-ung nominals are sensitive to the properties of the internal argument. As indicated
above, internal arguments are interpreted as THEMEs and an interpretational dif-
ference emerges depending on whether the THEME is plural marked or not:
	(151)	 a.	 die	 Tötung	 des/eines	 Journalisten German
			 the	 kill-ung(nmlz)	 the.gen/a.gen	journalist.gen
			 ‘the killing of the/a journalist’
		 b.	 die	 Tötung	 der	 Journalisten German
			 the	 kill-ung(nmlz)	 the.gen	 journalists.gen
			 ‘the killing of the journalists’
Furthermore, Alexiadou, Anagnostopoulou & Schäfer (2009: 42–43) point out
that German -ung nominals behave like verbal passives in so far as they license
AGENTs and CAUSERs as PP arguments:
	(152)	 a.	 die	 Öffnung	 der	 Tür	 durch	 den	 Wind German
			 the	 open-ung(nmlz)	 the.gen	 door.gen	through	 the	 wind
			 ‘the opening of the door through the wind’
		 b.	 die	 Öffnung	 der	 Tür	 durch	 Peter German
			 the	 open-ung(nmlz)	 the.gen	 door.gen	 through	 Peter
			 ‘the opening of the door through Peter’
In particular the fact that these -ung nominals pattern with verbal passives and not
with adjectival passives with respect to the licensing of external arguments strongly
suggests that they contain verbal functional structure (cf. also Marantz 2007;
Anagnostopoulou 2009). However, Alexiadou, Anagnostopoulou & Schäfer (2009:
49) argue against the projection of verbal functional structure (and in particular
VoiceP) in -ung nominals, because these do not combine with a reflexive. Hence, -ung
66.	 Cf. also Pylkkänen (2002) for an argument that goes into a similar direction.
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
nominals can be interpreted reflexively and non-reflexively without the occurrence of
a reflexive marker. In fact, the reflexive marker is ungrammatical in -ung nominals:
	(153)	 a.	 die	 Anmeldung	 der	 Gäste German
			 the	 register-ung(nmlz)	 the.gen	 guests.gen
			 ‘the registering of the guests’
		 b.	 *die	 Sich-Anmeldung	 der	 Gäste German
			 the	 SELF-register-ung(nmlz)	 the.gen	 guests.gen
			 ‘the self-registering of the guests’
In this respect -ung nominals deviate from nominalized infinitives, which main-
tain the reflexive marker under nominalization:
	(154)	 das	Sich-anmelden	 der	 Gäste German
		 the	self-register-en(inf)	 the.gen	guests.gen
		 ‘the self-registering of the guests’
However, it should be noted that the non-reflexive nominalized infinitive allows
for a reflexive reading as well:
	(155)	 das	Anmelden	 der	 Gäste German
		 the	register-en(inf)	the.gen	guests.gen
		 ‘the registering of the guests’
The form in (155) can be interpreted reflexively in pretty much the same way that the
form in (153a) can. For Alexiadou, Anagnostopoulou & Schäfer (2009) this would
mean that nominalized infinitives in German, which behave like adjectival passives in
this respect, cannot project verbal structure either. This is a problematic assumption
though, since otherwise nominalized infinitives clearly display verbal characteristics.
An alternative comes from Sichel (2009) who argues that a PROarb interpreta-
tion is what allows for a reflexive reading in -ung nominals. This comports with the
analysis here. Under the assumption that both forms, i.e. nominalized infinitives
and nominalizations in -ung, contain verbal functional structure the reflexive inter-
pretation can be explained by following the analysis discussed for English -ing of
nominals where the -ing affix is a nominalizing affix. Assuming that the internal
THEME argument moves into Spec, vP and thus into the edge of the verbal Phase is
what makes it accessible in the higher nominal Phase and thus allows for the reflex-
ive interpretation. The absence of an overt reflexive marker in -ung nominals can
easily be explained along these lines as well, because this would entail that the reflex-
ive in the edge of vP can access the internal argument in the lower Phase. This how-
ever, is impossible, because the complement domain of vP is already spelled-out and
thus no longer active in the derivation at the stage in which the nominalizing -ung
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
suffix is merged. Under the assumption that verbal functional structure is not pro-
jected in (nominal) -ing of/-ung nominals, this remains unexplained.
Additionally, German nominalizations in -ung, like their English counter-
parts, allow for a result interpretation as in (156) or for a distributed event inter-
pretation, as in (157):
	(156)	 die	 Bespannung	 des	 Stuhls German
		 the	string-ung(nmlz)	 the.gen	chair.gen
		 ‘the stringing of the chair’
	(157)	 a.	 die	 Tötungen	 der	 Journalisten German
			 the	 kill-ung(nmlz).pl	 the.gen	 journalists.gen
			 ‘the killings of the journalists’
		 b.	 *die	 Tötungen	 des	 Journalisten German
			 the	kill-ung(nmlz).pl	 the.gen	 journalist.gen
			 ‘the killings of the journalist’
The form in (157a) clearly illustrates the distributed event reading, since it is inter-
preted as several killing events in which one or more journalists are involved. The
ungrammaticality of (157b) further corroborates this. Here the plural on the nom-
inalized form indicates the multiple and distributed event reading which cannot
be reconciled with a single journalist, thus ungrammaticality ensues.
Finally, some characteristics of the incorporated forms strongly suggest that
verbal functional structure is involved. As expected, incorporated -ung nominals
show a kind- rather than a specific-reading. Prima facie it seems that nominaliza-
tions in -ung can incorporate more freely than nominalized infinitives:
	(158)	 a.	 die	 Flussbiegung German
			 the	 river-bend-ung(nmlz)
			 ‘the river-bend’
		 b.	 die	 Waldlichtung German
			 the	 forest-clear-ung(nmlz)
			 ‘the forest-clearing’
		 c.	 die	 Türöffnung German
			 the	 door-open-ung(nmlz)
			 ‘the door-opening’
	(159)	 a.	 der	 Fluss	biegt	 sich German
			 the	 river	 bends	self	
			 ‘the river bends’
		 b.	 der	 Wald	 lichtet	 sich German
			 the	 forest	 clears	 self	
			 ‘the forest clears’
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
		 c.	 die	 Tür	 öffnet	sich German
			 the	 door	 opens	self
			 ‘the door opens’
The examples in (159) may lead to the conclusion that the -ung nominals in (158)
incorporate external arguments. However, it should be noted that the verbs in
(159) alternate between the inchoative and causative variants:
	(160)	 a.	 der Mechaniker biegt das Metall German
			 ‘the mechanic bends the metal’
		 b.	 der Gärtner lichtet das Dickicht German
			 ‘the gardener clears the coppice’
		 c.	 der Hausmeister öffnet die Tür German
			 ‘the janitor opens the door’
Given the unavailablity of reflexive markers in -ung nominals (for reasons already
discussed above), the incorporations, which just as in the English PING-forms are
low in the tree, are not external arguments.
What is a noticeable difference between incorporations in -ung nominalizations
in contrast to nominalized infinitives though is that the form of the incorporated ele-
ment is fixed. Recall from the discussion in the previous subchapter that the incor-
porated element can be either a plural or a bare noun and that incorporating either a
bare noun or a plural form was shown to have a clear interpretational effect. This ef-
fect is absent in nominalizations in -ung, because these tolerate just one form:
	(161)	 a.	 die	 Straßenkreuzung German
			 the	 street-cross-ung(nmlz)
			 ‘the streets-crossing/intersection’
		 b.	 *die	 Straßekreuzung German
			 the	street-cross-ung(nmlz)
			 ‘the street-crossing/intersection’
From the examples in (161) it should not be concluded though that only plural
forms can be incorporated. In fact, in a number of cases it is just the bare stem that
can be incorporated and plural forms are illicit:
	(162)	 a.	 die	 Holzspaltung German
			 the	 wood-splitt-ung(nmlz)
			 ‘the wood-splitting’
		 b.	 *die	 Hölzerspaltung German
			 the	woods-splitt-ung(nmlz)
			 ‘the woods-splitting’
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Which form is available for incorporation is regulated by semantics. The verb cross
in (161) automatically entails that at least two streets must be involved, hence the
plural form is incorporated. In (162) it is the mass term that is incorporated, thus
plural marking on this form is ruled out. Now, if the interpretation of the incorpo-
rated forms is regulated in the lower Phase upon the Merger of v which entails the
inheritance of φ-features to V where the incorporation operation is triggered, this
is what is expected. In nominalized infinitives incorporation and -en suffixation
are located within the same Phase. Hence both forms (i.e. bare nouns and plurals)
can be incorporated. In -ung nominals, on the other hand, incorporation is in the
lower Phase and affixation is in the higher Phase. Thus the form that is incorpo-
rated is fixed in the lower verbal Phase.
In summary it can then be said that there is a substantial amount of evidence
that -ung nominals contain verbal functional structure in a lower Phase. Thus, it is
safe to conclude that German incorporated and non-incorporated nominalizations
in -ung pattern with English PINGs and their non-incorporated counterparts.
3.5	 Conclusion
In this chapter another structure in which the Merger of two LIs creates a PoS is
analyzed: nominal gerunds. This PoS is resolved either by of-insertion, which is a
reflex of inherent Case marking on the internal argument or by incorporation.
Further, it has been argued that two types of nominal -ing of gerunds need to
be distinguished in English. Those which project the -ing affix under a verbal node
and those which project it under a nominal node. Both nodes are identified as
Phase-nodes that trigger Spell-Out and render the complement domain of the rel-
evant Phase-head inert for further computations. A number of consequences
automatically follow. The verbal -ing head licenses aspectual modifiers, non-sen-
tential adverbial modifiers, prepositional modifiers and the relevant form of the
anaphor do-so, as well as a PRO-element. Sentential modifiers are not licensed,
which is immediately obvious from the absence of TP or any other higher func-
tional projection that would license such a modifier. Nor can the nominal gerund
be pluralized, which is also immediately obvious from the fact that the -ing affix is
a verbal affix, which never hosts nominal inflectional morphology.
When the -ing affix is a nominal affix instead, plural morphology is well-attest-
ed. However, this does by no means exclude the projection of verbal functional
structure below the nominalizing affix. In fact, a substantial number of properties
of pluralized incorporated and non-incorporated nominal gerunds rather suggests
that verbal functional structure is projected below the nominalizing node. Among
these are the sensitivity to the quantized nature of the nominalized verb’s internal
	 Chapter 3.  The nominalizing of nominalizations	 
argument, the sensitivity to non-incorporated THEME DPs and the distinction
between kind- vs. specific-interpretations. The unavailability of aspectual modifi-
ers, non-sentential adverbial modifiers, prepositional modifiers, a PRO-reading
and the do-so anaphor is an immediate consequence of a Phase-theoretic approach
to the structures under discussion. The verbalizing v-head that can host these
modifiers is not accessible after Merger of the nominalizing n-head that hosts the
-ing affix, because the verbal head is in the complement domain of the n-Phase and
thus already spelled-out and consequently rendered inert upon Merger of -ing.
Thus, in essence the nominal head constitutes a Phase-boundary whose edge
property blocks the accessibility of lower (functional and all other) projections in
the complement domain of the Phase-head.
Both types of nominal gerunds can incorporate the internal argument, which
ultimately rests on the availability or absence of inherent Case-marking on this
argument. In the absence of Case-marking incorporation ensues, because the
φ-features on the internal argument are a proper subset of the φ-features on the
incorporating V, which has inherited its φ-feature specification from v. The incor-
porated form can only be a bare form and cannot be a fully specified DP due to the
kind-interpretation that is associated with incorporation.
Corroborating data for this analysis comes from German and (at least to some
extent) from Romanian, where the two -ing affixes are two separate morphemes,
i.e. -en marking the nominalized infinitive in German and nominalizations in -ung
and the supine and the nominalized infinitive in Romanian.
In sum, then, this analysis follows the tradition that syntactic principles should
apply in the lexicon. The abstract notion of Phase and the SMT in fact predict ex-
actly where subtle interpretive differences linked to inner and outer aspect can
occur and it is precisely the ability of a theory to predict seemingly peripheral data
which illustrates its strength.
chapter 4
Small clauses (and Verb-particle
constructions)
4.1	 The data
In the preceding chapters two types of structure in which Merge leads to a PoS are
examined: nominal root compounds and nominal gerunds. In both cases an anal-
ysis that is in line with the SMT is devised under which the PoS is dissolved. In
order to achieve this goal, a Phase-theoretic approach to BPS proved vital in both
instances. Thus, so far the present study has offered a syntactic account on PoS
dissolution for adjunction structures as exhibited in nominal root compounds as
well as for argument structures as exhibited by nominal gerunds. In both cases the
PoS resulted from the Merger of two LIs, i.e. two heads.
This chapter looks at yet another potential PoS that results from the Merger of
two non-heads, i.e. XPs. This is the situation that arises from e.g. small clauses
(cf. Moro 2000; 2007 and others). Based on the analysis presented in Narita (2011)
the analysis presented here shows how the PoS in SCs can be dissolved. Addition-
ally, the analysis provided deals with a number of heretofore unaccounted data in
small clause (henceforth SC) constructions and argues for a uniform account for
all these data. The analysis is based on the H-α schema of Narita (2011) and a
derivational constraint – *Enter Phase – that is derived from the SMT and finds a
sister constraint in Vacate Phase (cf. Roeper in preparation). This is what makes the
analysis leaner and more elegant than existing analyses of SCs and at the same
time it can cover more of the SC data.
SCs are usually considered neither as plain adjunction structures nor as pure
argument structures. In fact, they are ascribed an in-between status that is re-
flected in their characterization as predication structures (cf. e.g. Moro 2000; 2007;
den Dikken 2006; 2007a;b); although the predication status of SCs requires further
clarification (cf. e.g. Gallego 2010: 97), a point we will come to in due course in this
chapter. Also, it is to be noted that although the result is the same, i.e. a PoS that
arises from the Merger of two SOs, this PoS potentially behaves differently with
respect to the LCA (cf. Kayne 1994; Moro 2000). This difference results from the
fact that two XPs, which both constitute an SO, are merged instead of two LIs.
Merger of two heads leads to a symmetric c-command relation and therefore the
set of terminals to be ordered for LCA-compliance (cf. Kayne 1994) is empty. This
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
is not the case here. Since the PoS is not constituted by two heads but by two XPs
the ordering of the terminals is contradictory rather than an empty set. Hence,
even under the aspect of LCA considerations the situation in SCs seems to be dif-
ferent from the situation of the constructions discussed so far.
However, the deeper question is whether LCA considerations are even rele-
vant in this context. After all, also Kayne (2010) seems to reconsider the question
of the existence of directionality parameters, which can be regarded as the princi-
ple motivation for the LCA in Kayne (1994), without making recourse to the LCA.
This is a very interesting observation for several reasons. First of all, it is to be
noted that the PoSs discussed in the preceding chapters were all dissolved for rea-
sons other than the LCA. In fact, the discussion in the previous chapters has shown
that PoS dissolution is hard-wired in narrow syntactic requirements that are com-
pletely dissociated from a purely PF-oriented LCA. Thus, it is reasonable to be
suspicious of the LCA based motivation for PoS dissolution in SCs too. This is
even more relevant when looking at Kayne’s (2010: 12–20) account of directionality
in natural languages, where he argues that the unique Specifier-Head-Comple-
ment (S – H – C) order is derivable from the properties of Merge and the interac-
tions of the Probe-Goal mechanism operative in BPS. In order to be able to state
that S – H – C is the unique ordering in syntax and in particular that the specifier
is universally merged to the left of the head, Kayne (2010: 16) argues that Merger
of two XPs is universally unavailable. Narita (2011) arrives at the same conclusion
from a very different perspective. Now, if Merger of two XPs is generally excluded
from narrow syntax, the question is how SCs, which arguably are the result of
Merger of two XPs are alternatively analyzed then. The abstract and theoretical
answer provided in Narita (2011) is substantiated with empirical data from the
domain of SCs. This leads to pushing the original analysis one step further.
Specifically, the question that arises in this context and that has not been ad-
dressed anywhere in the literature so far emerges from the following data-set:
	 (1)	 a.	 He made the cake beautifully.
		 b.	 He made the cake beautiful.
	 (2)	 He is a cake-maker.
	 (3)	 This is a beautifully made cake.
	 (4)	 a.	 What/How did he make the cake what/how?	 Beautifully.
		 b.	 What did he make [SC the cake what]?	 Beautiful.
		 c.	 What did he make [SC what beautiful]?	 The cake.
	 (5)	 a.	 He beautifully made the cake beautifully.
		 b.	 *He beautiful made the cake beautiful.
		 c.	 *He cake-made beautiful cake.
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
	 (6)	 a.	 *He is a cake-maker cake beautiful.
		 b.	 *The cake was beautiful-made cake beautiful.
	 (7)	 The cakei was made cake beautiful.
	 (8)	 He made [the cake beautiful] beautifully.
	 (9)	 a.	 Jack made Bobby angry.
		 b.	 What did Jack make Bobby what?	 Angry.
		 c.	 Who did Jack make who angry?	 Bobby.
	 (10)	 a.	 Jack made Teddy laugh.
		 b.	 Who did Jack make who laugh?	 Teddy.
		 c.	 *What did Jack make Teddy what?
		 d.	 What did Jack make Teddy do what?	 Laugh.
In (1a) the VP [made the cake] is modified by the adverb [beautifully]. This is a
case of XP – XP Merger. In (1b) the SC [the cake beautiful] is also an instantiation
of XP – XP Merger and the whole SC is selected by the verb [made]. The direct
object, which is immediately dominated by the verb in (1a) can be incorporated
without any complications (cf. (2)). The same holds for the modifier that is at-
tached high in the VP (cf. (3)). The examples in (4a)–(4c) and in (9a)–(9c) illus-
trate that long-distance wh-extraction is possible for the modification structures
just as much as for the SC structures.
The examples in (5a) and (2) further illustrate that incorporation is possible
with the modification structures. However, the SC structures cannot be incorpo-
rated, as (5b) and (5c) show. Indeed, not even noun-incorporation (6a) or incor-
poration into a passive (6b), which would satisfy the First Sister Principle, is
possible. So under incorporation SCs behave like islands to extractions, but not
in the wh-cases in (4) and also not in regular passives as in (7). However, the pic-
ture is not uniform, since the SC in (10) requires do-insertion when the SC-pred-
icate is extracted, which is not the case in e.g. (5) and (9).
Of course, a number of very different solutions to some of these problems exist
(cf. e.g. den Dikken 2006 for a fairly comprehensive overview), but none of them
is without problems and none of them can account for the whole set of data. It is
the aim of this chapter, on the basis of the framework established in Narita (2011)
to seek an analysis of SC constructions that is in line with the SMT and that pro-
vides a syntactic answer to PoS dissolution for the data in (1)–(10). Once again,
considerations from Phase-theory will prove vital in this context and a constraint
that can be derived from the SMT will be discussed that lends support to and
specifies one version of the PIC discussed in e.g. Chomsky (2001) vs. Chomsky
(2000). This constraint generates a sister constraint put forward most recently in
Roeper (in preparation), which receives ample support from considerations on
language acquisition (cf. ibid).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
The analysis in this chapter proceeds as follows. In a first step I will approach
the definition of SCs and reconcile them with considerations on XP – XP Merger.
In this context the internal structure of SCs is discussed on the basis of various
approaches suggested in the literature. Shortcomings of these approaches with re-
spect to a BPS analysis that is guided by the SMT are discussed and an analysis,
based on the theoretical framework laid out in Narita (2011), that fully respects
SMT requirements is presented. In a second step, the analysis suggested here is
briefly extended and transferred to verb-particle constructions and their nominal-
izations, which are shown to lend further support to the novel account of SCs put
forward here.
4.2	 Towards a definition of SCs
4.2.1	 The general picture: Two interfaces – two paths?
SCs are typically characterized as predication structures (cf. e.g. Moro 2000; den
Dikken 2006; 2007a). However, as Gallego (2010: 96–97) correctly points out, it is
not clear how this semantic characterization translates into syntactic structural
representation. It could, of course, be argued that a predication relation translates
into a syntactic structure that is established between two phrases possibly medi-
ated by some predicative head that hosts these phrases in complement and speci-
fier positions. This comes close to the approach taken in den Dikken (2006; 2007a;
2007b). At the same time, however, it should not be overlooked that such an inter-
face-driven approach to the identification of SCs as predication structures equals
reverse-engineering the SMT, since in this case interface demands would dictate
structural make-up.1 Additionally, it is not always clear how the predication rela-
tion is to be established for the numerous different constructions that are analyzed
as SCs in the literature. Moro (2000), for instance suggests a distinction between
SCs of believe-type verbs (11a) and copular verbs (11b):2
	 (11)	 a.	 Jack considers his youngest brother fat.
	 b.	 Jack is Jack the president.
Presumably, further distinctions are in order for SCs in double object construc-
tions (cf. e.g. Kayne 1984):
1.	 Yet another path is pursued in Haider (2013), where at least one very specific type of small
clause is identified as a predication relation that is indeed mediated by the main verb. I will come
back to this below.
2.	 SCs are indicated in italics here. This is done to avoid any commitment to SC internal struc-
ture at this point of the discussion.
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
	 (12)	 Jack sent Bobby a cake.
as well as for adjunct and absolutive constructions (cf. Chomsky 1981; Moro 1995;
Rothstein 2000):
	 (13)	 Ted left the Cape PRO refreshed.
	 (14)	 The debate is no fun with the Speaker of the House mute.
And it is not clear whether verb-particle constructions (cf. e.g. Johnson 1991; Aarts
1992) pattern with any of the above or whether they constitute yet another type of
structure (cf. also Haider 2013 for further examples):
	 (15)	 a.	 Bobby called up the vote.
		 b.	 Bobby called the vote up.
Moro (2000: 33–34) additionally lists existential constructions (16), colloquial ex-
pressions (17), reduced relatives (18) and unaccusative constructions (19) as fur-
ther examples for SCs:
	 (16)	 There is a fool in the compound.
	 (17)	 Jack a fool? Never!
	 (18)	 The man in charge
	 (19)	 There is a problem there.
The standard definition of SCs that is applicable to all of the examples in (11)–(19)
and that circumvents the problem of specifying the nature of the predication rela-
tion any further is the characterization provided e.g. in den Dikken (2006: 60):
	 (20)	 A SC is a subject-predicate structure lacking tense.
This definition is not very helpful though, as it suffers from the aforementioned
imprecision in the characterization of the so termed subject-predicate structure.3
Granted that it is not tense mediating the relation between the subject and the
predicate, it is not clear what mediates this relation, nor is clear, whether – what-
ever it is that mediates – it is actually is the same ‘thing’ in all the examples in
(11)–(19). Additionally, it is not even clear whether subject and predicate are un-
ambiguously identifiable in all instances. In particular in so called equative con-
structions (cf. also Heycock & Kroch 1999), which (21) is an example of, it remains
unclear, which of the DPs functions as subject and which as predicate:
	 (21)	 Jack is JFK.
3.	 Additionally, Al-Horais (2007) argues that SCs though untensed do not necessarily lack
tense features. In fact, it is the hallmark of Al-Horais analysis that SCs are specified for a tense
feature that provides the head of the SC construction (cf. also Aarts (1992) for an analysis along
similar lines).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Thus, in order to arrive at a more precise characterization that does not suffer from
the problem of revoking the SMT a more precise definition needs to be found. In
order to do this, in a first step, I focus on the SC constructions in (11), (13) and
(14). Double object constructions and verb-particle constructions are included in
the discussion in a second step and the structures in (17)–(19) are largely abstract-
ed away from, however, the analysis to be discussed here should also be compatible
with these.
Before dealing with each of the structures in turn, however, some more gen-
eral considerations are in order. It has been pointed out in the introduction already
that SCs are characterized as inducing a PoS that results from XP – XP Merger.
Prima facie all of the structures in (11)–(19) can be conceived of as instances of XP
– XP Merger. Den Dikken (2006: 58) argues that under the assumption that all SC
in (11)–(19) are instances of the same syntactic structure, at least three options for
the specifics of this structure arise. These are schematically illustrated in (22):
	 (22)	 a.	 [VP V Subj Pred]
		 b.	 [VP[V V Pred] Subj]
		 c.	 [VP V [Subj Pred]] [adapted from den Dikken 2005: 59]
The structure in (22a), though initially argued for in Williams (1980), is not com-
patible with current BPS approaches to syntactic structure that follow the principle
of binary branching (cf. Kayne 1984). Thus, despite the fact that this is an instance
of X – XP – XP Merger we can rule it out here on the basis of considerations of
economy and learnability (cf. also den Dikken 2006: 59; Kayne 2010). For the
structure in (22b), which is championed e.g. in Johnson (1991) and also in Haider
(2013), it is not so clear whether this is an instance of XP – XP Merger. It rather
looks like a standard case of Merge of a head with an XP complement, i.e. the sec-
ondary predicate Pred, and an XP specifier, i.e. the subject Subj (cf: ibid: 174–178).
As den Dikken (2006: 59) correctly points out, this structure is straightforwardly
applicable to verb-particle structures in which the particle immediately follows the
verb, as in (15a), but it is unclear how the alternative order exemplified in (15b) is
derived.4 This problem is even more pressing in light of the fact that several of the
examples in (11)–(19) exhibit this ordering. Of course, the mechanics of generat-
ing the observed surface order can be accounted for by movement operations, and,
indeed, in examples like (11b) and (19) this seems a reasonable solution. Here the
subject merged in Spec, VP is targeted by a higher Probe, probably instantiated by
the EPP-feature on T, and then moves out of Spec, VP. Schematically the structure
is as follows:
4.	 Cf. again Haider (2013) for a possible analysis in the context of verb particle and resultative
constructions.
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
	 (23)	
However, the structure in (23) is problematic in its own right. First of all, it is not
clear that the copula is an instance of V that enters into a predicative relation with
the DP the president. Secondly, it is not at all clear how the subject-predicate rela-
tion between Jack and the president is established. This is puzzling especially in
light of the fact that V is universally considered as unfit for introducing subjects
(cf. e.g. Kratzer 1996; Pylkkänen 2002).
Additionally, the other examples in (11)–(19) do not fare any better under this
analysis either. First of all, the question of how the relation between the V + Pred
complex and the subject is established is left unanswered. Secondly, although the
two ordering possibilities e.g. for (15a) and (15b), can again be accounted for by
movement roughly of the sort illustrated in (24), a number of questions remain.
One of these questions extremely relevant for the current context is why the PoS
that results from the movement operation is unproblematic, or how it is resolved
for that matter. Another valid question is what the status of the particle is (cf. e.g.
Zeller 2001 for discussion and e.g. Svenonius 2003 for some critical remarks):
	 (24)	
It is in principle possible to argue that the particle, which is standardly identified
as the predicate in (24) (cf. e.g. Johnson 1991; Aarts 1992), moves past the subject
DP the vote to a higher position. However, it is totally unclear how this movement
is motivated, why the subject is not targeted by the movement operation and
whether this movement operation is also applicable to the other examples in
(11)–(19). Hence, the question that emerges in this context is why e.g. in (12) the
reverse ordering requires the presence of to:
	 (25)	 Jack gave a cake to Bobby.
VP
V
Jack
the president
is
Jack
up
the vote
V
up
call
VP
VP
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Or why reverse ordering is sometimes even blocked as can be seen when compar-
ing the example in (26) to the form in (11a) and the example in (27) to the example
in (13):5
	 (26)	 Jack considers *(as) fat his youngest brother.
	 (27)	 Ted left refreshed *(from) PRO the Cape.
All these questions remain open under the structural representation in (22b).
Thus, although this structure has the merits that it is reconcilable with the charac-
terization in (20)6 and that it apparently avoids the problem of XP – XP Merger,7 it
is far from unproblematic and will therefore be set aside here.
Thus, let us now turn to the third alternative presented in (22c). As it stands,
this is most obviously a case of XP – XP Merger that is then merged to the verb.
This XP – XP structure is what, according to den Dikken (2006: 59–60), is most
standardly identified as a SC. At least the following two questions immediately
emerge in this context as well:
1.	 What is the head of the XP – XP structure and what drives Merge here?
2.	 How is the predication relation established here?
Let us start by looking at the last question first. It could be argued that no predica-
tion relation is established between the two XPs at all. This is roughly the answer
that is pursued in Kayne (1984). Moro (2000) and Pereltsvaig (2001) also seem to
follow this line, at least for the copular constructions in (11b), Matushansky
(2007a) suggests it for naming constructions and Heyckock & Kroch (1999) con-
sider it for equative constructions, exemplified here in (21). So, pursuing this line
of analysis basically spares an answer to the second question. This is not a bad
move altogether, since it is not clear how the predication relation is defined
5.	 As Günther Grewendorf points out, these questions, of course, only arise, when all of these
constructions are regarded as examples for the same underlying SC construction. And there are
a number of empirical differences in particular between the double object construction and the
examples in (26)–(27) that give rise to some doubt of the validity of an analysis that treats all of
these constructions a par. This is one of the reasons why they are excluded from the general
discussion in the remainder of this chapter (cf. also comments above).
6.	 Notice that the structure in (22b) is only reconcilable with the characterization in (20)
when ignoring the question how the subject-predicate relation is established.
7.	 The problem of XP – XP Merger is also avoided only apparently here, as we will see later in
the discussion. Suffice it to say at this point that merging the subject XP in Spec, VP (or some
other position equivalent to this) is definitely not a case of X – YP, i.e. head + phrase Merger.
Provided that the prerequisite for Merge is that at least one of the SOs bears an EF (cf. Chomsky
2008), this automatically entails that one of the SOs participating in Merge be an LI.
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
correctly and how this semantic relation translates into syntactic structure. How-
ever, it comes at the cost of rendering the first question even more relevant.
An alternative answer is provided in den Dikken (2006). Here, den Dikken
argues against symmetric cases of XP – XP Merger. Thus, den Dikken avoids an
answer to the first question by embracing a predication analysis. This predication
analysis differs from the complex predicate analysis in Johnson (1991) in so far as
the predication relation is not established between the higher verb and one of the
small clause constituents but rather between the two small clause constituents and
an abstract functional head termed Relator. So, in fact den Dikken’s analysis only
avoids the first half of the first question and still needs to devise an answer to the
second half, i.e. what motivates Merge of the the two XPs that constitute the SC in
complement and specifier position of the abstract functional head. Additionally,
the second question remains to be answered, which still hinges on a precise defini-
tion of the predication relation.
So the situation we are facing is that we can either buy into an analysis that
faces the problem of XP – XP Merger and the PoS resulting from this operation
needs to be dissolved somehow, or we can avoid this problem by subscribing to an
analysis that comes at the cost of maintaining a syntactically problematic charac-
terization of predication, which involves reverse-engineering the SMT. In order to
be in a better position to judge between these two options and to see where poten-
tial problems arise and how they can be overcome let us look at the two alterna-
tives in more detail.
4.2.2	 Pursuing a S-M based analysis: Moro (2000)
As already indicated above, Moro (2000) distinguishes between two types of SCs:
SCs of believe-type verbs and bare-copular SCs, of which only the latter can be
inverted:
	 (28)	 a.	 Jack considers his youngest brother fat.
		 b.	 Jack is Jack the president.
	 (29)	 *Jack considers fat his youngest brother.
	 (30)	 The president is Jack the president.
Both are instances of XP – XP Merger inside the SC. In the canonical order the SC
subject is remerged in Spec, TP, while it is the predicate that is remerged in this
position in the inverse SC:8
8.	 Again, it is highly debatable whether this analysis is licit. Following Rizzi (1997) it could sim-
ply be assumed that the moved constituents in (28b) and (30) occupy different positions in the left
periphery, which lead to a different focus structure. This, however, is not the path taken in Moro
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	 (31)	
		 [adapted from Moro 2000: 42 & 106–107]
Again a prominent question here is whether movement to Spec, TP is a viable so-
lution.9, 10 This hinges on the properties associated with Spec, TP. If this is inter-
preted as the subject position, it is to be noted that this is incompatible with the
facts, since the SC constituent in Spec, TP is not necessarily the subject, as the fol-
lowing examples illustrate:
	 (32)	 a′.	 The senators are the problem.
		 b′.	 The problem are the senators.
As (32b’) shows, the DP the senators agrees with the copular and is interpreted as
the subject of the SC, although it remains lower in the tree than the DP the prob-
lem, which is the SC predicate (cf. also Moro 1997; 2000 for further illustration).
So, the remaining question then is what the properties of the landing position of
the moved DPs really are.
(2000), where movement motivated by PoS-dissolution is modeled to Spec, TP (cf. also (31)). Still,
the question whether the respective constituents move to Spec, TP in an initial step and from there
onwards to different positions in the CP yielding the different interpretive effects, is not com-
pletely off the table. On the other hand, the motivation for a split CP is neither, which, as Chomsky
(2011) discusses, is incompatible with current BPS conceptions that factor in Phases. I will abstract
away from these difficulties here, since they are orthogonal to the analysis suggested below.
9.	 Moro (2000) models it as movement to Spec, IP (cf. ibid: 42) or an unspecified Spec, S
(cf. ibid: 106–107) respectively.
10.	 Notice that moving one of the SC constituents to Spec, TP gets us around the PoS problem,
but it does not provide a solution to the deeper problem of how XP – XP Merger is dealt with.
This latter problem remains completely unresolved.
vP
TP
a.
SC
is
the president
Jack
Jack
vP
TP
b.
SC
is
the president
Jack
the president
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
By way of an indirect answer to the above question, Moro (2000: 42) further
points out that the reason for movement of either one of the two SC constituents
cannot be Case, because the subject can remain inside the SC and still receive
nominative case.
Regarding the other type of SC in (28a), Moro (2000: 43–45) argues that this
does not constitute a counterexample to his approach, because SCs that are com-
plements of believe-type verbs are structurally more complex. One indication is
that believe-type SCs in contrast to bare SCs allow adverbial modifiers inside the
SC. Here, in particular the inverse structure of the SC is taken to be the corrobo-
rating piece of evidence. The modifier cannot occur inside the SC when the predi-
cate is remerged outside the SC:
	 (33)	 *La causa della rivolta non è [Gianni in alcun modo la causa ...] Italian
		 The cause of-the riot not is John in any way
		 ‘The cause of the riot isn’t John in any way’.
While perfectly plausible, this is not the only conclusion that can be drawn from
the data that Moro discusses. First, it is to be noted that the example in (33) only
illustrates that the adverbial modifier cannot occur in a position lower than modi-
fying the matrix verb. It is not clear from the example whether the modifier cannot
be merged to the SC predicate either. Unfortunately, Moro does not provide any
examples that allow for conclusions on this question.
However, even if this question can be answered satisfactorily, it is not clear
whether the conclusions can be transferred to those SCs that are complements of
believe-type verbs. Moro, in his analysis focuses on bare copular SCs, since these
are of the type in which the PoS ensues. What is not clear though is in how far
exactly the functional head that Moro (2000: 43–44) postulates for SCs that are
complements of believe-type verbs contributes to the prevention of a PoS. In fact,
the structure that is presented (cf. ibid: 45) is very unclear here:
	 (34)	 Gianni non ritiene [FP queste foto F0 ...in alcun modo F0 .... Italian
		 John not consider these photos in any way
		 ‘John does not consider these photos in any way
		 [SC la causa...
		 the cause ...
		 the cause ...’
It is not at all clear what is inside the small clause. In the representation in (34) it
looks like the SC subject is first-merged in Spec, FP and the SC predicate is merged
as the complement of FP. If correct, the question that emerges is what the proper-
ties of the SC are. In light of the fact that the subject is merged outside of the SC,
the definition in (20) seems unfit here. Also, it is not clear whether the subject and
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
the predicate can be inverted in this type of SC just as much as in the bare SC, and
what guarantees or prevents this option.
It is particularly important to note here that despite the presence of a FP – to
which the adverbial modifier can be merged – a PoS is not a priori excluded. It is
absolutely feasible that the subject and the predicate of the SC are merged and that
this Merger leads to a PoS. The role of the functional projection could then simply
be to dissolve the PoS by remerging one of the SC constituents in its specifier posi-
tion. This is schematically presented in (35):
	 (35)	
Nothing in the analysis pursued in Moro (2000) prevents such a move. Neither the
fact that the functional head can be spelled-out as come (‘as’) in SCs of the believe-
type verbs nor the fact that the SC predicate cannot be cliticized in this type of SC
is a compelling reason against an analysis along the lines outlined in (35).
In fact, postulating a functional head F and its projection that can attract one
of the SC constituents to its specifier comes remarkably close to PoS-dissolving
movement operation that Moro himself assumes (cf. the examples in (31a) & (31b)
for exposition).	Moro (2000: 34–35) himself, however, argues against Kayne’s
(1984) original assumption that an agreement head mediates between the subject
and the predicate of the bare SC on the basis of the following data from Italian:
	 (36)	 Gianni ritiene	 [SC [DP questi libri] Italian
		 John considers	 this.masc.pl book.masc.pl
		 ‘John considers these books
		 [DP la causa della rivolta]].
		 the.fem.sg cause.fem.sg of-the riot
		 the cause of the riot’. [adapted from Moro 2000: 35]
The subject and the predicate of the SC do not agree neither in number nor in gender
contrary to what would be expected from an agreement head of the type suggested
inChomsky(1991).ThisiswhatleadsMoro(2000)tofollowtheargumentsinChom-
sky (1995a) against the postulation of Agr-heads in general and in SCs in particular.
Three comments are in order here. First, it is to be noted that agreement be-
tween the SC subject and predicate is not what is a priori expected, even under the
projection of an agreement phrase, because in standard cases of AgrP the subject
in Spec, AgrP does not agree with the complement of AgrP either.
F
FP
SC
F
la causa della rivolta
queste foto
queste foto
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
Moreover, it is to be noted that the SC that Moro here provides is not of the
bare type. Instead it is a SC that is the complement of a believe-type verb and thus
a SC that hosts a functional projection, of which AgrP could just be one possible
instantiation. What Moro (2000: 35) points out though is that instances in which
agreement inside SCs (that are complements of believe-type verbs) is obligatory
exist in Italian:
	 (37)	 a.	 Gianni ritiene	 [SC [DP queste ragazze] Italian
			 John considers	 this.pl girl.pl
			 ‘John considers these girls
			 [DP le sue migliori amiche]].
			 the.pl his.pl best.pl friend.pl
			 his best friends’.
		 b.	 *Gianni ritiene	 [SC [DP queste ragazze] Italian
			 John considers	 this.pl girl.pl
			 ‘John considers these girls
			 [DP la sua migliore amica]].
			 the.sg his.sg best.sg friend.sg
			 his best friend’.
Unfortunately, Moro (2000, 2007) does not comment on what makes agreement
obligatory in (37)11 and why it can be ignored in (36). This is particularly puzzling,
since both SCs are complements of the believe-type verb ritenere and thus likely
candidates for the projection of a functional head whose properties are unclear. It
could, of course, be argued that (36) and (37) are two entirely different construc-
tions. This, however, does not seem to be in line with the account that Moro pursues
where both structures are treated on a par. Rather it seems that the distinction that
Moro acknowledges between these two constructions hinges on the lexical proper-
ties of the SC constituents involved. In (36) the SC constituents denote a reason or
origin relation, whereas in (37) this relation is absent. In fact the relation between the
SC subject and the SC predicate seems to be some kind of an equation. This, how-
ever, would need to be made precise, were one to follow Moro’s account here. 12
11.	 Notice that the agreement is really obligatory here, i.e. it is not the case that the SC in (37b)
has just another meaning than the one in (37a). It is strictly ungrammatical.
12.	 One possible way of making this relation precise would be to analyze this construction as
some kind of equative SC in the sense of den Dikken (2006; 2007a;b). This is an option that we
will discuss in some detail in the next subchapter. Suffice it to say here that this is not without
complications either, since the questions on the properties of the head that mediates this equa-
tion relation remain. Again, this is something that would require thorough investigation – if this
is actually what Moro (2000) hints at.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
An alternative analysis is suggested in Al-Horais (2007). Here agreement be-
tween the SC subject and the SC object is regulated by direct φ-feature agreement
between the two constituents even in believe-type SCs.13 This analysis is immedi-
ately transferrable to bare copular SCs:
	 (38)	 a.	 La fille est	 [SC[DP la fille]	 [AP intellegente]]. French
			 The girls are	the.fem.sg girl.fem.sg	 intelligent.fem.sg
			 ‘The girl is intelligent’.
	 (38)	 b.	 Les filles sont	 [SC[DP les filles]	 [AP intellegentes]]. French
			 The girls are	 the.fem.pl girl.fem.pl	intelligent.fem.pl
			 ‘The girls are intelligent’.
		 c.	 Les enfants sont	[SC[DP les enfants]	 [AP intellegents]]. French
			 The kids are	 the.masc.pl girl.masc.pl	intelligent.masc.pl
			 ‘The kids are intelligent’.
In (38) agreement inside the SC is just as obligatory as in the examples in (37). Now,
given that Moro does not assume a functional projection that could mediate the
agreement between the SC subject and predicate in bare copular SCs and that Al-
Horais does not argue for a functional projection inside SCs that are complements of
believe-type verbs in the first place, the question of what corroborates the assump-
tion of a functional projection inside the latter type of SC, and the question of what
the properties of this functional projection are, remains. The same holds for the
question of whether the dissolution of a PoS can be motivated syntactically instead
of by making recourse to the post Spell-Out mechanisms induced by the LCA.
In this context the analysis provided in den Dikken (2006; 2007a;b) is worth
looking at in greater detail, because it provides interesting answers at least to some
aspects of the questions mentioned above. This is what is done in the next section.
4.2.3	 Pursuing a C-I based analysis: Den Dikken (2006; 2007a;b)
Den Dikken (2006) argues that symmetric SCs, i.e. those that instantiate a PoS
resulting from XP – XP Merger, like the bare copular SCs in Moro (2000) or the
SCs in Al-Horais (2007), do not exist. In his analysis den Dikken (2006) focuses on
13.	 In effect Al-Horais account then comes close to the analysis suggested in (35). Especially so,
since he assumes that Case on the SC internal constituents is valued by a functional head that is
merged on top of the SC. This head is a non-finite anaphoric tense head that enters into a Mul-
tiple-Agree relation with the SC internal subject and predicate. However, two differences re-
main. For one, Al-Horais eventually argues for an analysis in which it is the predicate inside the
SC that provides the label for the SC, thus no PoS ensues here. Secondly, for reasons that are
extensively discussed in the literature (cf. e.g. Boeckx 2008a for a comprehensive overview) I will
refrain from adopting a Multiple-Agree analysis for SCs.
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
copular constructions, i.e. bare and equative SCs. This is a plausible approach,
since only these are assigned a symmetric structure, involving a PoS in Moro
(2000). All other SCs are asymmetric and involve some sort of a functional projec-
tion anyway. I will follow den Dikken in this for the moment, keeping in mind
however that the postulation of a functional projection in order to derive an asym-
metric structure does not answer the question on what the syntactic properties of
this projection are – a question I will come back to in due course.
Based on the definition of SCs as subject-predicate structures lacking tense
(cf. also (21)), den Dikken (2006: 60) argues that complements of causative verbs
in Italian faire-infinitive causative constructions are SCs too. Den Dikken (2006:
62) further assumes that SCs – like all predication structures – are projections of a
functional head. This functional head is termed Relator in den Dikken (2006;
2007a;b). What is special about those SCs that are complements of Italian faire-
infinitive causative constructions is that the predicate of the SC is projected in the
specifier of the functional projection that makes up the SC, while the subject is in
the complement position. The examples den Dikken (2006: 60) provides are the
following:
	 (39)	 a.	 Gianni	 fa	 ridere	Maria. Italian
			 John	 makes	 laugh	 Mary
			 ‘John makes Mary laugh’.
		 b.	  [adapted from den Dikken 2006: 60]
The Relator head here is not realized phonologically. However, there are instances
where the Relator head is overt. The relevant example from den Dikken (ibid) is
given in (40):
	 (40)	 Gianni	 fa [SC/RP mangiare	 le	 mele [R a [DP Maria]]]. Italian
		 John	 makes	 eat	 the	 apples	 Mary
		 ‘John makes Mary eat the apples’. [adapted from den Dikken 2006: 60]
Evidence for the fact that the V(P)s in Spec, RP in (39) and (40) are predicates of
the predication is derived from the observation that these secondary predications
RP=SC
vP
RP
V/(pred)
ridere DP/(subj)
R
fa
∅ Maria
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
can be turned into primary predicates along the same lines that other subject-
predicate structures in secondary predicates can (cf. den Dikken 2006: 61):
	 (41)	 a.	 Ha	 riso	 Maria. Italian
			 has	 laughed	Mary
			 ‘Mary has laughed’.
		 b.	 Sono	mangiate	 le	 mele	 da	 Maria. Italian
			 are	 eaten	 the	 apples	 by	 Mary
			 ‘The apples are eaten by Mary’.
Den Dikken (2006) derives from this that all SCs are tenseless Relator phrases. In
this respect den Dikken’s analysis is reminiscent of that of non-bare SCs in Moro
(2000: 46). Here the non-bare SCs are likewise analyzed as containing a functional
projection that can optionally be realized as come (‘as’):
	 (42)	 Maria	considera	[Gianni	come	il	 colpevole]. Italian
		 Mary	 considers	 John	 as	 the	the culprit
		 ‘Mary considers John (as) the culprit’.
A similar case in point can be made for the following example:
	 (43)	 Gianni	ritiene	 queste	foto	 per	la	 causa	della	 rivolta. Italian
		 John	 considers	this	 photo	for	 the	cause	of the	riot
		 ‘John considers this photo as the cause of the riot’.
It could be argued that the functional head that Moro (2000) postulates for this
type of SC is equivalent to den Dikken’s Relator head and is spelled-out as per here.
Interestingly, though, the following is also perfectly fine in Italian:
	 (44)	 Gianni	ritiene	 per	la	 causa	della	 rivolta	queste	foto. Italian
		 John	 considers	for	 the	cause	of the	riot	 this	 photo
		 ‘John considers as the cause of the riot this photo’.
(44) is an instance of predicate inversion akin to the inversion that Moro (2000)
observes in bare SCs, discussed here in (30) and (31). It is worth noticing that de-
spite apparent similarities, the example in (44) is not akin to the structures (39)
and (40), since these are examples where subject and predicate of the SC are in-
verted. This is evidenced by the fact that the LI that realizes the functional head
(or Relator head for that matter) in (44) is likewise inverted. This however, begs
the question how this inversion can be motivated and what distinguishes it from
e.g. the example in (41b). Neither the analysis in den Dikken (2006) nor the one in
Moro (2000) provides a conclusive answer here and I will come back to this issue
below in the context of the English examples in (61), which exemplify the same
structural make-up as (44).
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
What additionally complicates the account in den Dikken (2006) is that,
maintaining the premise that all SCs are Relator phrases, bare copular construc-
tions are analyzed along these same lines. Here it is the copula itself that is ana-
lyzed as an instantiation of the Relator head (cf. ibid: 62–64). When viewed in
this light, how does (41b) fit in here? According to den Dikken (2006: 61) it is
the LI da that is realized as the Relator head when the secondary predication in
(40) is turned into a primary predicate in (41b). However, sono is likewise ana-
lyzed as a Relator head (cf. ibid: 63). So, either sono needs to be accounted for
differently, because the instantiation of the Relator head is the LI da, or two Rela-
tors need to be assumed, one spelled-out as da and one as sono. Yet, this comes
at considerable cost. First of all, it is not clear what eventually leads to the order-
ing observed in (41b). Secondly, if two Relators are involved this amounts to
reintroducing a second predication relation into the structure (cf. den Dikken
2006: 63), which is an undesirable result, because it was the principal motivation
for getting rid of a secondary predication structure that lead den Dikken to pos-
tulate (41b).
However, regardless of how these complications can be accounted for, this, of
course, does not necessarily lead to the conclusion that a predication analysis in-
volving a Relator head is on the wrong track. In fact, den Dikken (2006: 64–76)
provides a number of further arguments that strengthen the assumption of a Rela-
tor head even in structures that are analyzed as bare SCs elsewhere. These struc-
tures are specificational and equative copular constructions. Both are problematic
for a predication analysis and for basically the same reason. To see this more clear-
ly let us look at two examples for equative constructions here:
	 (45)	 a.	 Jack is the president.
		 b.	 Jack is JFK.
In both cases a predication analysis is problematic, because neither the definite
DP the president in (45a) nor any of the two DPs in (45b) is a likely candidate for
a predicate, since they are both definite descriptions which are of referential type
〈e〉 and as such unfit for being used in predicative relations, which require ele-
ments of type 〈e,t〉 (cf. also Heycock & Kroch 1999 for a similar argument). Den
Dikken acknowledges this fact and argues for (45a) that definite noun phrases in
English, unlike in other languages, need not be full DPs, thus the constituent the
president can still be interpreted predicatively, i.e. of type 〈e,t〉. This is impossible
in (45b), though, since both noun phrases in equative copular SCs are referen-
tial, i.e. of type 〈e〉 as Heycock & Kroch (1999: 374–375) illustrate with the fol-
lowing example:
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	 (46)	 Your opinion of Edinburgh, which you learned from your parents, is my
opinion of Philadelphia, which I learned from mine.
Both DPs in the equative structure in (46) can be modified by a non-restrictive
relative clause, which can be taken as a good indication of their referential status.
In consequence this preempts them from being predicates in the SC. Here den
Dikken (2006: 73) argues for an analysis along the lines in (47) for the equative
construction in (45b):
	 (47)	
		 [adapted from den Dikken (2006: 73)]
In (47) the predicate of the small clause that is a complement to T is what den
Dikken (ibid) identifies as a pro-predicate that is associated with a reduced rela-
tive, i.e. the CP in the complement position of the pro-predicate. Thus, the referen-
tial NP Jack can function as a predicate here, by virtue of being embedded as the
subject in a reduced relative hosting a second RP. Evidence that this analysis is on
the right track is adduced from the fact that equative SCs behave just like specifi-
cational pseudoclefts, in so far as they both can be inverted freely:
	 (48)	 a.	 What Ted said is that he likes Vicki.
		 b.	 That he likes Vicki is what Ted said.
	 (49)	 a.	 Jack is JFK.
		 b.	 JFK is Jack. [adapted from den Dikken 2006: 73]
Pred.j
TP
T
T+Relatork
RP
is
PRO-Predicate
C
CP
OPi
RP
C tj
tk
R
JFK
∅
∅
R
DP
ti
R
Jack
DP
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
One immediately apparent difference between specificational pseudoclefts14 and
equative copular SCs of the type discussed here is that the pseudoclefts in (53) do
not contain a reduced but rather a full-fledged free relative. Still, den Dikken (2006:
74) argues that the specificational pseudoclefts share the structure in (47) with
equative SCs. This in turn is associated with the fact that in equative SCs the re-
duced relative must invert with its subject, while this is not necessarily so in spec-
ificational pseudoclefts (cf. ibid). Evidence for this line of reasoning comes from
the fact that equative SCs ban all kinds of A’-extraction, while the precopular NP
can be extracted from the specificational pseudocleft:
	 (50)	 a.	 *Whose opinion of Jack would you say your opinion of JFK is t?
		 b.	 *Whose opinion of JFK would you say t is my opinion of Jack?
	 (51)	 a.	 What Teddy said is that he likes Vicki.
		 b.	 *Which of these things do you think what Teddy said is t?
This is what leads den Dikken (2006) to the conclusion that symmetric SCs, i.e.
those that constitute a PoS as argued for e.g. in Moro (2000), Pereltsvaig (2001)
and Matushansky (2007a), do not exist.
This conclusion is a bit premature, however. While it is perfectly licit to argue
for a parallel between extraction possibilities in equative SCs and pseudoclefts, it
is not clear what blocks the extraction in these cases. Nor is clear, why the SCs that
are complements of believe-type verbs are available for extraction or why the in-
verted subject of the SC and the subject of the pro-predicate can both undergo
long-distance wh-extraction equally well:
	 (52)	 a.	 What/Who is Jack?
		 b.	 What/Who is JFK?
What is also not really clear is why the pro-predicate must invert nor why it is not
the SC subject that is embedded in the pro-predicate.15
14.	 In fact, den Dikken (2006: 73) does not only distinguish between predicative and specifica-
tional pseudoclefts, both of which are illustrated in (i) and (ii) respectively:
	 (i)	 What John is is important to him.
	 (ii)	 What John is is important to himself.

Rather he distinguishes specificational pseudoclefts further into two types. This distinction is
mainly drawn along the lines of connectivity distinctions (cf. den Dikken, Meinunger & Wilder
2000 for detailed discussion). I here follow den Dikken in making this distinction but will re-
frain from further elaboration on this for ease of exposition.
15.	 Of course, under den Dikken’s analysis it is totally clear why it cannot be the SC subject that
is embedded in the pro-predicate. This is simply because then the SC predicate would still be a
referential DP and the problem of a referential predicate still ensues. But as long as it is not clear
how the predication relation is defined, this possibility cannot be ruled out and the argument for
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
In den Dikken (2007a;b) the ideas outlined in den Dikken (2006) are devel-
oped further and at least a partial answer that addresses some of the aspects
mentioned above is provided. The key assumption in den Dikken (2007a) is that
predication relations of the kind expressed in Relator phrases are inherent Phases,16
which are defined as follows (cf. ibid: 1):
	 (53)	 Inherent Phase
		 an inherent phase is a predication (subject-predicate structure)17
Classifying predication relations as inherent Phases has the effect of rendering
the head of the predication relation, i.e. R in den Dikken’s (2006; 2007a;b) analy-
sis, as a Phase-head. According to standard assumptions on Phase-impenetrabil-
ity (cf. Chomsky 2000), which den Dikken (2007: 1) subscribes to, this means
that only the Phase-head and the edge of the Phase are accessible for either Move
or Agree operations. This means that the SC predicate, by virtue of being merged
in the complement domain of the Phase-head, should per se not be available for
extraction.18 This assumption, however, quite obviously flies in the face of predi-
cate inversion structures, where it is precisely the predicate of the SC that moves
across the subject of the SC, which is in the edge of the inherent SC Phase:
	 (54)	 a.	 The radiation level is a major reason for the scientists’ concern.
		 b.	 A major reason for the scientists’ concern is the radiation level.
In (54a) it is the subject of the SC that has moved to a higher specifier in the matrix
clause. In (54b), however the SC predicate obviously must have moved past the
subject – and past the Relator head – to a higher position. This, den Dikken (2007:
1ff) argues, follows from an operation that is termed Phase extension. Phase ex-
tension is defined as follows (cf. ibid):
the structural representation in (47) remains weak. Why for instance cannot both the SC subject
and predicate be embedded in a pro-predicate. Here the analogy to pseudoclefts would be abso-
lutely feasible:
	 (i)	 What Jack is is what JFK is.
16.	 Whether this is a licit assumption is a question that I will discuss in detail below. For the
time being, I will outline key aspects of den Dikken’s (2007a) analysis first.
17.	 Emphasis is in the original version.
18.	 Unless, of course, the complement of the Phase-head is remerged in the outer specifier of
the Phase-projection. This would make it accessible for extraction, however, it seems somewhat
incompatible with the single-specifier system that den Dikken (2007a) designs, as will become
obvious from the discussion below.
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
	 (55)	 Phase Extension
		 syntactic movement of the head H of a phase α up to the head X of the
node β dominating α extends the phase up from α to β; α loses its phase-
hood in the process and any constituent on the edge of α ends up in the
domain of the derived phase β as a result of Phase Extension.
Thus, by moving the head of the Relator phrase to the head of a higher functional
projection, which following den Dikken (2007) we may simply call FP for conve-
nience, extends the inherent Phase of the SC to this higher Phase. Additionally,
this movement operation has the effect of rendering the two DPs in the SC, i.e. the
subject and the predicate DP, equidistant to the newly derived (i.e. extended)
Phase-head F. Thus, both DPs are now equally available for movement to Spec, FP,
i.e. the edge of the Phase:
	 (56)	
In (56) it is the SC predicate DP that is remerged in Spec, FP. Thus the SC subject,
the DP the level of radiation, is no longer in the edge of the Phase and thus inert for
movement in the remainder of the derivation. The question that immediately aris-
es is why, provided the SC subject and predicate DPs are equidistant for the de-
rived Phase-head F, the subject does not also move to Spec, FP. In order to prevent
this operation, den Dikken (2007a: 9) further assumes that adjunction to mean-
ingless categories is disallowed. In effect, then, den Dikken postulates a functional
category that has the sole purpose of providing a landing site for the head-move-
ment of the Phase-head that has the additional characteristic of mediating the
predication relation.
Several consequences follow from this analysis, most of which are discussed in
the very same issue of Theoretical Linguistics that den Dikken’s (2007a) paper
is published in. Some of them are irrelevant for our purposes here and will there-
fore be ignored in the remainder of the discussion, but there are at least two points
that directly relate to our investigation above and will therefore receive further
FP
a major reason for ...
RP
Fʹ
is
Rʹ
DP
the level of radiation DP
R
is a major reason for the scientists’ concern
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
consideration. First, den Dikken (2007a: 28) argues that the possibility of Phase
extension goes directly against the static aspect of Phases in Chomsky (2001 and
subsequent literature). In fact it restores and invigorates the dynamic aspect inher-
ent to the earlier approaches on extraction sketched in Chomsky (1986a). Second,
by relating the predication property to Phasehood, a novel and heretofore unac-
knowledged criterion for the determination of Phases is identified. Phases are in-
timately and inherently related to predication. From this perspective SCs, which as
discussed in (20) already are also tied to the predication property, are a natural
candidate for Phasehood. Before fully embracing this idea, however, let us step
back a little and see how it plays out in the context of the analysis provided in den
Dikken (2007a;b).
First, it is to be noted that identifying SCs as Phases helps only so much,
when Phases and/or SCs are characterized as predication relations between a
subject and a predicate that is mediated by a functional head. The question al-
ready addressed above needs to be iterated in this context: What are the proper-
ties of the Phase-head that allows for the establishment of the predication
relation? It is not quite clear what the properties of the Relator head are. In den
Dikken (2006: 55) the Relator is described as a functional head that can host a
number of very different categories, ranging from light v over T and Topic to a
whole variety of often phonologically null functional heads in adverbial and ad-
jectival modification relations. So, unlike Moro (2000), den Dikken (2006;
2007a) argues that a direct relation between the SC subject and predicate is im-
possible in all contexts. However, the exact properties of the mediating head,
which after all is a Phase-head, are largely left unclear. Thus, like Moro (2000),
den Dikken (2006; 2007a) identifies the Relator head as a by and large meaning-
less category that cannot be involved in e.g. theta-role assignment to the subject
(cf. den Dikken 2006: 35 & 71). Nor does it seem to play a role in feature Valua-
tion (cf. den Dikken 2007a: 27–28). In short, the ontological status of this cate-
gory is left unexplained. Matushansky (2007b: 96), however, remarks that R must
have some semantics and cannot be meaningless, due to the dictum in den
Dikken (2007a: 9) that meaningless categories cannot be adjoined to. The fol-
lowing examples illustrate this:
	 (57)	 a.	 What do you think the radiation level is what?
		 b.	 What do you think the scientists are afraid of what?
In (57a) the predicate of the copular SC is wh-extracted and in (57b) extraction
from inside the SC predicate has taken place. Both operations should be illicit, if
the Relator head were a meaningless category because, for extraction to be possible
in these cases, it is necessary that the SC predicate be adjoined to the RP in a first
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
step, before extraction to a higher projection can take place (cf. also Matushansky
2007b: 95–96 for similar observations).
	 (58)	
Since the SC subject precedes the copular, an analysis in which the copular, which
is an instantiation of R, has moved to a higher functional F-head and in which the
wh-phrase is then moved to this position, is unavailable. Thus adjunction of the
wh-phrase to RP is the only option available here. This automatically entails
though, that RP cannot be a meaningless category, because adjunction to those
categories must be ruled out in order to maintain the impossibility of extraction
from SC subjects under predicate inversion.19
In fact, the problems do not stop there though. When assuming, as den
Dikken (2007a) does, that Merger of a functional head on top of the SC is
optional and that Remerger of the R-head in F renders the SC subject and
predicate equidistant, it is not so clear, how this can be ruled out for the ex-
ample in (57a)/(58). So provided that the copular moves from R to F and then
the subject moves from Spec, RP to Spec, FP, we are facing the same problem
as before:
19.	 It is worth noticing that these observations here are not limited to copular or bare SCs in the
sense of Moro (2000). Instead they extend to SCs that are complements of believe-type verbs:
	 (i)	 What do they consider the radiation level what?

So, even in those clauses that have a functional head mediating between the SC subject and
predicate under Moro’s analysis, the problem of how predicate extraction is accounted for arises.
Moro (2000: 107–108) argues that the unavailability of extraction from and of the subject in in-
verse copula sentences is related to the absence of L-marking and ECP-reasons respectively.
However, this only holds for the bare SCs and tells us nothing about the other type of SC either.
CP
what
RP
RP
what
Rʹ
DP
the radiation level DP
R
is what
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	 (59)	
For extraction of the SC predicate to be possible, it must adjoin to FP. This, how-
ever is explicitly ruled out in den Dikken (2007a: 9), because FP is a meaningless
category. So, although undesirable, movement of this kind is not a priori impos-
sible. And, we are already looking at two categories here, F and R, whose onto-
logical status and properties are far from clear.
What else Phase extension is incapable of explaining is what has been pointed
out as problematic in the context of Moro’s (2000) analysis of a functional head in
SCs of believe-type verbs already. Provided that den Dikken’s (2006; 2007a;b) Rela-
tor head is a functional head that can be spelled-out in various ways and that has
among its options being spelled-out as e.g. like, for or as in (60), the question is
how the predicate inversion structures in (61) can be accounted for in these cases:
	 (60)	 a.	 Jack considers his youngest brother as fat.
		 b.	 The public takes the CEO for a criminal.
		 c.	 Ted treats his sister like a fool. [adapted from den Dikken 2006: 64]
	 (61)	 a.	 Jack considers as fat his youngest brother.20
		 b.	 The public takes for a criminal the CEO.
		 c.	 Ted treats like a fool his sister.
20.	 Notice that these structures are highly reminiscent of the structures discussed above in the
context of Moro’s analysis:
	 (44)	 Gianni ritiene per la causa della rivolta queste foto. Italian
		 John considers for the cause of the riot this photo
		 ‘John considers as the cause of the riot this photo’.
CP
what
FP
FP
what
F
DP
the radiation l. RP
F
is DP
the radiation level R
is what
Rʹ
DP
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
The predicate inversion here is hard to account for under the analysis devised in
den Dikken (2006; 2007a;b), because the Relator, which presumably moves to a
higher functional projection, in order to render the SC predicate equidistant and
thus accessible for inversion, must move past the raised SC predicate in a later step
of the derivation.
One possible solution to this conundrum would be to argue that the structures
in (60) differ from predicate inversion in copular constructions in so far as they do
not result from Phase extension of the kind observed in copular constructions.
Instead, a movement analysis could be assumed, according to which the SC predi-
cate is first adjoined to the SC Phase and extracted from there to a higher position,
somewhere in the left periphery.21 The SC head is then moved past the SC subject
and the inverted predicate. However, this type of analysis is faced with a number
of complications. Among these are the questions of what triggers the movement of
the SC predicate to a higher position in the left periphery and how this is to be
distinguished from ‘ordinary’ Phase extension movement, as well as what triggers
movement of the SC head, which after all is a Phase-head, to a position still higher
than the SC predicate? 22
Additionally, it is far from clear why this analysis should not also be available
for copular SCs, as in (62):
	 (62)	 a.	 Jack is the president.
		 b.	 The president is Jack.
The inverted construction in (62b) is suspiciously close to other cases of extraction
to the left periphery that are analyzed as cases of topicalization. However, in these
cases the SC head moves only to a position below the inverted predicate, for rea-
sons that are far from clear. This question is even more pressing, when taking into
account that the Relator head must be overt in cases of predicate inversion in SCs
that are complements of believe-type verbs:
	 (63)	 */?Jack considers fat his youngest brother.
21.	 And even if an analysis along these lines may seem viable, it is not compatible with the ap-
proach to BPS taken in this study, where an extended left periphery has been regarded with as
much skepticism as an inflation of functional categories in other places of the derivation (cf. e.g.
the analysis of the verbal domain in Chapter 3). In this light the postulation of any functional
category, including a Relator or a F category as suggested in den Dikken (2006; 2007a;b) should
be regarded with skepticism. A point I will come to in more detail below.
22.	 In fact, this latter point is an additional complication that should not be underestimated.
For all intents and purposes, moving the Phase-head (by whatever mechanism, be it remnant
movement or head-movement) brings back in all the questions discussed above already.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Even if not outright ungrammatical, the form in (63) is notably worse than the one
in (61a), where the Relator head precedes the inverted SC predicate.23
From these observations here it can be concluded that there is sufficient rea-
son for questioning the availability of a functional projection FP on top of the
Relator phrase that has the purpose of providing an escape hatch for the SC pred-
icate in some predicate inversion structures, while at the same time trapping the
SC subject inside the SC Phase (cf. also Matushansky 2007b: 102–103 for a simi-
lar conclusion).
Keeping this in mind, let us now turn to underlying theoretical assumptions
that are postulated in den Dikken (2006; 2007a;b) and evaluate these against the
background of standard minimalist assumptions. As Gallego (2010: 96–100)
points out, one aspect that is problematic about the Phase-based approach taken
in den Dikken (2007a;b) is that the definition of predication relations and thus, by
analogy, SCs as Phases is somewhat problematic. Identifying predication relations
as Phases comes closest to the conception of Phase in Chomsky (2000). Here the
relevant criterion for Phasehood is that of propositionality. What den Dikken
(2007a;b) remains silent about though is what the correspondence between predi-
cation and propositionality may be. Additionally, both propositionality and predi-
cation are semantic notions and thus have the effect of reverse-engineering the
SMT just as much as the Phaseless but also predication based approach of den
Dikken (2006) has.
Additionally, even when abstracting away from the semantic basis for the
definition of Phases, which may be matched with corresponding syntactic coun-
terparts (cf. Gallego 2010: 97), it should not be overlooked that this definition
will still be a relational definition. Thus, the Relator head is a Phase-head, not by
virtue of the properties of R, but rather by virtue of the relation that is estab-
lished between the complement and the specifier of R. This makes it rather easy
to integrate the flexibility of Phase-heads that ensues from Phase extension. But
it goes directly against the criteria for Phasehood identified in Chomsky (2001;
2004; 2005; 2008), i.e. unvalued φ-features. Moreover, as Gallego (2010: 98) also
remarks, a Phase extension approach raises certain questions on the timing of
Transfer. Den Dikken (2007a: 1) is not explicit, which version of the PIC he sub-
scribes to:
23.	 This has nothing to do with pragmatic factors, such as e.g. weight. In the sentences in (i) and
(ii) the SC predicate is much heavier than the SC subject and still the inverted form requires as:
	 (i)	 a.	 Vicki considers Columbia Point the best place for the EMK Institute.
		 b.	 Vicki considers Columbia Point as the best place for the EMK Institute.
	 (ii)	 a.	 ?/*Vicki considers the best place for the EMK Institute Columbia Point.
		 b.	 Vicki considers as the best place for the EMK Institute Columbia Point.
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
	 (64)	 Phase Impenetrability
		 Syntactic relationships (Agree) and processes (Move) are constrained by
the Phase Impenetrability Condition (PIC) of Chomsky (2000 et passim):
in a phase α with head H, the domain is not accessible to operations out-
side α, only H and its edge are accessible to such operations.
Nothing in (64) tells us whether the domain of H becomes inaccessible immedi-
ately upon Merger of the Phase-head H, which is what the so called stronger ver-
sion of the PIC would imply, or whether inaccessibility only occurs upon Merger
of a higher Phase-head X, which is what the so called weaker version of the PIC
suggests (cf. Grewendorf & Kremers 2009: 389 for a sound comparison between
the two versions).
Notice, finally that the postulation of an F-head is also problematic from a dif-
ferent perspective. It is in clear violation of the principle of Full Interpretation (FI)
(cf. Chomsky 1995a: 27; Narita 2009: 240; 2011):
	 (65)	 Full Interpretation
		 Every syntactic operation correlates with a corresponding interpretation
at C-I (or at S-M). [adapted from Narita 2009: 247]
FI is a direct consequence of the SMT and thus, the failure of den Dikken’s (2007a)
functional head F to comply with it is a clear violation of the SMT.
In summary then, neither den Dikken’s (2006; 2007a;b) predication analysis of
SCs nor Moro’s (2000; 2009) PoS analysis of SCs provides us with a viable ap-
proach to the analysis of SCs, i.e. one that does not violate the SMT. However, both
approaches contain valuable insights into what a SMT compatible analysis of SCs
should look like. Two main characteristics are clearly discernible. First, the analy-
sis should provide a syntactic answer to PoS dissolution that arises from XP – XP
Merger and second the analysis should provide a syntactic account of what the
predication relation based analysis tries to capture. In particular the status of SCs
as Phases should receive a coherent explanation. This is what the discussion in the
next sections will turn to.
4.3	 Reconsidering XP – XP merger: Insights from the H-α schema
Interestingly, Gallego (2010: 99–100) in his critique of den Dikken (2007a) sug-
gests going back to the analysis originally provided in Moro (2000; 2007). What is
most interesting about this proposal is that Gallego makes it in the context of
explaining why in predicate-inversion structures the SC subject cannot be wh-ex-
tracted. Hence, Gallego refers exactly to those cases that led den Dikken to the
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Phase extension analysis in the first place. The relevant examples in this context
are the following (cf. den Dikken 2007a: 8; Gallego 2010: 100):
	 (66)	 a.	 *Which book do you think that [FP the #1 bestseller in the country [F is
[SC which book is the #1 bestseller in the country]]].
		 b.	 *Which book do you think that [FP on the president’s desk [F lay
[SC which book lay on the president’s desk]]].
			 [adapted from den Dikken 2007a: 8]
Both, (66a) and (66b) are predicate inversion structures of SCs and in both cases it
is impossible to wh-extract the SC subject over the inverted predicate. This, Gal-
lego (2010: 99–100) argues, is not due to the fact that the SC subject is trapped in
the domain of the extended SC Phase, as den Dikken (2007) would argue, but
rather results from DP – DP Merger that fails to produce a label. This, of course, is
the classic PoS configuration, discussed in detail in Section 4.2.2. This PoS is re-
solved by merging either one of the two SC internal DPs in the specifier of the
other. This has the consequence that a label can now be identified and – when
adopting the generalization of Cinque (1980) that DPs with filled specifiers have
no escape hatch – it explains why extraction is impossible. The following sche-
matic representations from Gallego (2010: 100) illustrate this:
	(67)	 a.	 [v [DP DP]]
		 b.	 [v [DP [DP DP]]
		 c.	 *[v DP2 [DP DP [DP2 DP]]
The questions that arise here are of course not hard to come by. First, it is not at all
clear, why DPs are unable to host multiple specifiers. Second, it is unclear how it
can be guaranteed that in principle any of the two DPs can undergo internal Merge,
while this is not possible in other cases of XP – XP Merger, say DP – AP or DP – PP
Merger, where it has to be the AP or PP respectively that is merged in Spec, DP.
Also, the question what induces the internal Merger of (either) one of the SC con-
stituents is unanswered. Moreover, the structure in (68) is puzzling:
	 (68)	 *Which bestseller do you think is this book?
Provided that the predicate inverted SC predicate has moved across the SC subject,
it is not clear why it resists wh-extraction regardless. Thus, a more principled anal-
ysis that can account for the empirical and theoretical challenges is called for.
In the linguistic literature there are two very recent independent analyses that
address the topic of XP – XP Merger from a perspective completely unrelated to
SCs (cf. Kayne 2010; Narita 2011). Still, applying the insights of these analyses to
SCs, which, after all are one of the principle cases of XP – XP Merger seems to be
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
a promising path to follow – at least with respect to finding some of the answers to
the questions mentioned above and in the preceding sections of this chapter. Both,
Kayne (2010) and Narita (2011) converge on the same conclusion regarding the
analysis of XP – XP Merger, yet from different perspectives. This conclusion is
summarized in (69):24
	 (69)	 Cases of XP – XP Merger do not exist.
(69) is a somewhat surprising statement that, of course, needs to be motivated.
Especially in light of the fact that it a priori seems to exclude an analysis of SC
along the lines of Moro (2000) or any other PoS based analysis. If cases of XP – XP
Merger do not exist, a PoS, which arises from these cases and which leads to the
labeling problems addressed by Moro (2000) and reiterated in Gallego (2010), also
does not exist.25
So a closer look at the two analyses that deal with other cases of XP – XP
Merger seems warranted under the perspective of how these are treated there and
what can be derived from the analyses for instances of apparent XP – XP Merger
in SCs. I intend to start the discussion with Kayne (2010), because it was the anal-
ysis of Kayne (1994), which lead Moro to his account of dynamic antisymmetry in
SCs and other constructions, where temporary violations of the LCA are dissolved
via movement. The guiding light in Kayne (2010), which was also the principle
motivation for the analysis in Kayne (1994), is the question how directionality
parameters can be accounted for. Kayne (1994) argues on the basis of the LCA,
which derives the core principles of X-bar theory, that the universal order of Merge
is the one in (70):
	 (70)	 S(pecifier) – H(ead) – C(omplement)
This order leads straightforwardly to the constituent order in (71):
	 (71)	 S – V – O
All other constituent orders are derived orders, which need to be motivated by
movement. The analysis in Kayne (2010) basically follows the same tenor but it
does so without the focus on deriving X-bar theoretic assumptions and also with-
out making recourse to the LCA. This is interesting, because it begs the question
for the analysis in Moro (2000) of how the PoS in SCs is dealt with provided that
the LCA does not hold.
24.	 On a smaller scale and in direct relation to resultative SCs, Haider (2013) comes to a similar
conclusion.
25.	 At least a PoS that results from an unordered set does not arise (cf. also the discussion in
Chapter 4.1 as well as in Moro (2000)).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Kayne (2009) already remarks that the original P&P based analysis of the
LCA cannot stand unrefined under a BPS approach. In particular, referring to
non-terminal nodes is identified as problematic under a BPS compatible ap-
proach to the LCA. Thereby Kayne (2009) reechoes criticism raised earlier
(cf. e.g. Chomsky 1995a; Uriagereka 1999 and subsequent literature). Kayne
(2010) goes one step further and derives the directionality described in (70) and
(71) from independent properties of the grammar that bear no relation to the
LCA. This is done in two steps.
First, Kayne (2010: 17) argues that the only option that is available for Merge
is Pair-Merge. Pair-Merge is distinguished from Set-Merge, of course, by the fact
that the former produces an ordered pair, while the latter does not. This is some-
what reminiscent of the discussion in Boeckx (2008a; and cf. also Chapter 1.2 for
further discussion), who argues in favor of a reversal of Set-Merge and Pair-Merge,
i.e. taking the latter to be the operation that derives argument structures and the
former to be the operation that derives adjunction structures. The analysis in
Kayne (2010) can thus be viewed as the stronger claim in so far as it identifies Pair-
Merge as the only operation that is available to narrow syntax. In so doing, it is also
an operation that automatically creates an ordered pair as the result of its applica-
tion. This does not necessarily give us the required S – H – C order of (70) though.
In principle the ordered pair that is created by p-merge (which is what Kayne
(2010) calls the operation) could create the order in (72a) or the order in (72b):
	 (72)	 a.	 〈H, C〉
		 b.	 〈C, H〉
So the two logical possibilities for ordering are the order in which the complement
precedes26 the head, which is the standard order found e.g. in Japanese (cf. e.g.
Narita 2011) or the order in which the head precedes the complement, which is
the order standardly assumed for e.g. English. However, despite abandoning the
LCA, Kayne (2010) does not deny the relevance of directionality parameters in
narrow syntax.27 Based on a considerable amount of cross-linguistic data and on
the more general observation that there exist no two languages that are exact
26.	 In fact, Kayne (2010: 17) takes precedence to be immediate precedence (i-precedence in his
terms). This is important in so far as it delimits the number of complements and specifiers that
any given head can have to one. For our purposes here this is not particularly relevant, because
we do not subscribe to a conception of syntax that has precedence as one of its integral parts
(cf. also next footnote and comments below), however, we return to this assumption below
when discussing how specifiers are merged.
27.	 I will come to the question of the relevance of such a parameter for narrow syntax in due
course and will deny its relevance for any computations relevant to FLN. For more detailed
discussion, cf. below.
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
mirror-images of one another, Kayne (2010: 1–11) argues that directionality is an
integral part of narrow syntax and that the asymmetry that is entailed in the non-
existence of a directionality parameter is a left-to-right asymmetry. Thus, the only
universally available order is a left-to-right order in which the head precedes its
complement, i.e. the order in (78a). Kayne (2010: 13) derives this order from align-
ing Probe-Goal search with parsing and production in the following way:
	 (73)	 Probe-Goal search shares the directionality of parsing and production.
	 (74)	 Probe-Goal search proceeds from left to right.
		 [adapted from Kayne 2010: 13]
This is sufficient for universally deriving the order of 〈H, C〉 under the assumption
that all Merge is Pair-Merge that creates an ordered set.
So, (73) and (74) paired with a special conception of how Merge operates is
enough to derive the first part of the order in (70). The second part, i.e. that the
specifier always precedes the head and the complement, is derived from the as-
sumption already mentioned in (69), which Kayne (2010: 16) terms as follows:
	 (75)	 The merger of two phrases is unavailable.
Traditionally, Merger of a specifier to a head-complement complex is identified as
a typical case of XP – XP Merger, i.e. as Merger of two phrases. This then is clearly
in violation of (75). Kayne (2010) gets around this problem by assuming that S
does not Merge with 〈H, C〉 but only with H. So, what p-merge derives is the order
in (76):
	 (76)	 〈S, H〉, 〈H, C〉 [adapted from Kayne 2010: 17]
(76) has the effect that the S – H – C order is not derived by forming a single and
uniform constituent. Instead, two discontinuous phrases of the sort illustrated in
(76) are formed. The remaining question of why the specifier is merged in a
position preceding the head is answered by Kayne (2010) in two ways. First, the
specifier is not probed by the head, hence it is not subject to the directionality re-
quirements in (73) and (74). Secondly, this follows naturally from the total order-
ing that p-merge creates. If p-merge creates ordered sets and if the complement
follows the head, then the specifier that is merged with that same head can only
precede the head. This is what Kayne (2010: 17) expresses by the principle in (77):
	 (77)	 H can be p-merged with at most two elements.28
28.	 With this principle Kayne (2010) sticks to the assumption already laid out in Kayne (1994)
that multiple specifier structures do not exist. Incidentally, this is done here in a way that does not
make recourse to the category vs. segment distinction of May (1985) and that is in line with BPS.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Thus, Kayne derives the universal order of S – H – C basically from the assumption
that directionality is universal, i.e. non-parameterized, that the directionality de-
rived from p-merge follows the directionality of parsing and production and that
Merger of two XPs is generally unavailable.
Now, if on the right track, Kayne’s analysis has certain implications on the SC
structures that are under discussion in the present chapter. Broadly speaking,
Kayne’s assumptions are challenging to either of the two major approaches dis-
cussed in the preceding sections. For the predication analysis of den Dikken (2006;
2007a;b) the directionality that is hardwired in p-merge means that the head that
mediates the predication relation, i.e. the Relator head must establish a clear Probe-
Goal relation with the SC predicate. Otherwise the SC predicate could not be
merged to the right of the Relator head. Additionally, the directionality that is in-
herently expressed in S – H – C orders creates a clear asymmetry between the two
SC constituents. This is particularly relevant for predicate inversion structures in
specificational SCs and for equative SCs where something needs to be said about
what allows for reversing the asymmetry.
For Moro (2000) the problem is immediately related to the question of XP – XP
Merger. How can SC structures that rely on symmetry breaking be derived under
the assumption that two XPs cannot ever be merged? So, in a sense, the underlying
problem remains the same. It is still the question how SCs can be linearized. What
has changed is the perspective. Moro (2000) following Kayne (1994) addressed the
linearization question in the context of a PoS analysis, where the PoS arose from
Merger of two XPs. Under Kayne (2010) the question shifts to a microlevel. Having
established that XP – XP Merger is unavailable, the question now is how the SC
constituents can be ordered at all. The directionality of S – H – C cannot be derived
when there is no clearly discernible head, so SCs that are identified as creating a
PoS in Moro (2000) should not be linearizeable at all. So, the more fine-grained
directionality based analysis in Kayne (2010) does not fall victim to a reverse-engi-
neering of the SMT. This is avoided by deriving linear order without recourse to the
LCA. This, however, comes at the cost of integrating directional order into narrow
syntax and at the cost of rendering an analysis of SCs impossible.
This first aspect is worrisome from a general perspective, the second aspect is
problematic in particular against a SC perspective. So let us start with the first as-
pect first. The question that needs to be answered here is whether directionality
really is (or should be) part of narrow syntax. In Chapter 1.2 a great emphasis is
put on the order independence of Merge. This aspect of order independence (cf.
e.g. Boeckx 2008a; Hornstein 2009) is one of the ingredients that makes the opera-
tion of Merge so cost-free and basic. Chomsky (2008) and Berwick & Chomsky
(2011) likewise argue against the integration of linear order into the narrow syn-
tactic computational system. Berwick & Chomsky (2011) even point out that BPS
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
is a major step in liberating narrow syntax from labeling and directionality in the
form of precedence information that is inherently encoded in e.g. the phrase struc-
ture rules of earlier generative models (cf. also Narita (2011: 94) for comments
along similar lines).
So, in light of these observations let us briefly recapitulate the evidence that
Kayne (2010) adduces in favor of directionality in narrow syntax. Kayne’s main
motivation is twofold. For one, Kayne adduces some evidence from the fact that
there is not a single language that is the exact mirror image of another existing
language. The second piece of evidence is derived from the fact that a number of
linguistic phenomena show a clear left-to-right asymmetry. Among those that are
listed in Kayne (2010: 5–11) are: hanging topics which are exclusively dislocated to
the left, clitic left dislocation which is far more frequent than clitic right disloca-
tion, the dislocation of pronominal clitics which is further to the left than that of
lexical objects, number agreement between verb and NP which is arguably estab-
lished in a structural configuration in which the NP precedes the verb, prenominal
relatives (as opposed to postnominal ones) which tend to lack overt complemen-
tizers and tend to be non-finite, serial verbs which despite different orderings be-
tween verbs and complements uniformly pattern in such a way that the highest
verb precedes the lower ones, coordination which (when the coordinator occurs
only once) occurs always between the two conjuncts and finally forward pronom-
inalization which is much more frequent than backward pronominalization.
It is hard to see how the absence of a directionality parameter is immediately
derivable from the absence of a language that has another language as its exact
mirror image. With respect to the empirical observations that Kayne (2010) pro-
vides as further corroborating evidence, Narita (2011: 94) remarks that it is hard
to see how certain typological gaps seem fit for making a statement over deep facts
of narrow syntax. Although interesting in their own right, Narita reminds us that
it is important to keep in mind that Kayne’s typological observations can best be
described along the following lines:
[... these] are all complicated phenomena involving not only syntax but also nu-
merous other factors pertaining to the use of linguistic capacity, including prag-
matics, language-specific morpho-phonology, memory-limitations, principles
and pseudo-principles of parsing and production, and so on. [...] Certainly, then,
such observations alone do not reasonably warrant the re-incorporation of prece-
dence into syntax [...]. Narita (2011: 94)
So, unless we find hard evidence that precedence is really an integral part of nar-
row syntactic computation, we digress from Kayne (2010) in assuming that linear
order is irrelevant for FLN. This, however, helps only so much with the question
how SC constituents are to be ordered, when the assumption that this is not regu-
lated by the LCA, which has no place in narrow syntax either, still holds.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
This also holds for the analysis in Haider (2013), which argues contra the
original LCA-based analysis in Kayne (1994) that the underlying order is not VO
but rather OV. Haider derives this from the basic branching constraint (cf. 2013:
3) and argues that resultative predicates, which are analyzed as small clauses in
some cases (ibid: 174–181), are complex predicates instead of small clauses and
that this falls out naturally under the basic branching constraint. So, Haider’s anal-
ysis faces the same questions that Kayne’s original and refined analysis must an-
swer: i.e. the question if and how ordering is encoded in narrow syntax. Since
Haider’s account concentrates on SCs that are resultatives and remains silent on
the structure of bare SCs and SCs of the believe-type that are the core of the
discussion here, I will set it aside in the remainder of this chapter. Should it turn
out, that SCs are inherently asymmetric and that OV vs. VO order is indeed en-
coded in narrow syntax, this analysis certainly adds some interesting insights to
the discussion.29
Narita (2011) in turn presents an analysis that builds on an assumption quite
similar to the one in Kayne (2010) in that Merger of two XPs is likewise ruled out.
However, Narita (2011) deviates from Kayne (2010) in how this assumption is
motivated. By strictly adhering to the SMT, which leads to a BPS conception of
grammar, Narita assumes (standardly) that Merge is the only structure building
operation that is available in narrow syntax. Unlike Kayne (2010), Narita (2011:
40–43), basically following Chomsky (2008), takes this operation to apply freely
and to form binary sets. This entails when taking the Inclusiveness Condition (78),
the No-Tampering Condition (79) and Full Interpretation (80) seriously, which
are all principles of computational efficiency that satisfy the SMT (cf. ibid: 39),30
that labeling and projection are unmotivated deviations from the SMT:
29.	 Haider’s analysis is very thought provoking and observes a basic distinction between result
predication and depictive predicates. It is argued that a complex predicate analysis fares better in
the derivation of the result predicates, because, in contrast to the SC analysis, it can account for
topicalization, scope, word-formation and pied-piping properties of this construction. Addi-
tionally, Haider observes cross-linguistic ordering differences for result predication structures,
which he links to the VO vs. OV properties of the particular languages under investigation and
ultimately to the basic branching constraint. It is, however, far from clear, how this analysis car-
ries over to other types of SCs, which cannot be reanalyzed as complex predicates and which, at
times, even resist a predication analysis completely (cf. e.g the discussion of equative construc-
tions in this chapter). Additionally, the question whether ordering is indeed part of narrow
syntax is not expressed here either. So, even if viable, Haider’s analysis suffers from the same
complications that are a result of SMT violation that have been pointed out for the approaches
in den Dikken and Moro above.
30.	 And not only are they straightforward consequences of the SMT, they also play an integral
part in the representation of a conception of syntax that is in line with descriptive, explanatory
and beyond that biological adequacy (cf. Narita 2011: 38).
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
	 (78)	 Inclusiveness Condition (IC)
		 No new features are introduced in the course of the derivation.
	 (79)	 No-Tampering Condition (NTC)
		 No elements introduced by syntax are deleted or modified in the course of
the linguistic derivation.
	 (80)	 Full Interpretation (FI)31
		 Every constituent of SEM and PHON contributes to interpretation.
		 [adapted from Natita 2011: 38]
Thus, there is no room for precedence information in narrow syntax in Narita’s
analysis and even labeling is identified as an unwarranted deviation from the NTC
and by extension from the SMT (cf. ibid: 41; but also Collins 2002; Chomsky 2000;
2007; 2008 for arguments that go into the same direction). So what syntax boils
down to here is the iterative application of the operation Merge, which is totally
blind to LCA requirements or any other measures that can be adduced for inte-
grating precedence information into pre-Spell-Out structure building computa-
tion. What is not clear yet is how the dictum that XP – XP Merger is generally
unavailable is catered for in this account.
This Narita (2011: 43–45) derives from basic assumptions on the operation of
Merge in the following way: It is standardly assumed that Merge is the operation
that builds (larger) SOs by applying iteratively to (smaller) SOs. The relevant defi-
nition of SO that Narita (2011: 40) assumes is given in (81):
	 (81)	 A linguistic representation α is an SO iff
		 a.	 α is an LI, or
		 b.	 α is a set {β, γ} where β and γ are SOs
So, what (81) gives us is a definition of the output of Merge. It says little about the
input though. Following Chomsky (2008), I agree with Narita (2011: 43) in that
LIs bearing EFs can be identified as the smallest building blocks for Merge to oper-
ate on. Hence, EFs can be regarded as the trigger that starts the iterative process of
Merge. Additionally EFs are relevant in so far as they permit the elements that bear
this feature to be subjected to Merger to some SO.
Interestingly, Narita (2011: 44), again following Chomsky, further suggests the
following hypothesis:
	 (82)	 The EF is a property only of LIs.
31.	 Notice that this principle alone suffices to make the assumption of a Relator head in the
sense of den Dikken (2006; 2007a;b) a very daunting enterprise.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Part of the hypothesis in (82) is already implied in Chomsky’s (2008: 139) concep-
tion of EFs, according to which LIs that for some reason do not bear an EF can
only be integrated into the structure as a full expression, e.g. as an interjection.32
The other part of the hypothesis i.e. that non-LIs do not have EFs can be derived
from the assumption that a BPS account of syntax that is strictly in line with the
SMT does not make use of feature percolation (cf. Collins 2002; Chomsky 2000;
2007; 2008 and many others). When viewed from this perspective, LIs bearing an
EF cannot project this EF to a higher node of a SO they are part of.
So, for illustration, let us consider a standard derivation in abstract terms here.
The first step in any derivation is that at least one and most likely two LIs, which
both bear EFs are merged. Qua (81a) both of these LIs are SOs and the product of
the Merge operation is likewise a SO, qua (81b). However, the SO that is the output
of Merge is not an LI and thus does not bear an EF. In consequence, any further
element that is merged to the already existing SO must be an LI bearing an EF –
regardless of whether this Merge operation is an instance of IM or EM, which are
of equal cost (cf. Chomsky 2008).
Narita (2011: 45) summarizes this in the following way:
	 (83)	 Only LIs are permitted to be merged with some SO.
and derives the H-α schema from this, which is what all instances of Merge are
subject to:
	 (84)	 The H-α schema: Merge (H, α) → {H, α}
		 Merge must take at least one LI as its input.
This, of course preempts all cases of XP – XP Merger.
Now, how does this formal and rather abstract33 analysis play out in the con-
text of SCs? So far the results are just as unsettling as those derivable from Kayne
(2010). Let us consider the approach in den Dikken (2006; 2007a) first. For ease of
exposition let us assume the following abstract representation of a SC:
	 (85)	 [SC/RP α(= SC subject) [R Relator head β(= SC predicate)]]
32.	 In fact, almost the whole line of reasoning is already implied in Chomsky (2008) when ar-
guing that EFs on LIs are a prerequisite for the unlimited iteration of Merge and that no other
elements than LIs have this property. So it is not a property of SOs in general, but only of those
SOs identified in (81a) that Chomsky seems to characterize here.
33.	 Despite some empirical data, Narita’s argument is presented in rather abstract terms. It is
the explicit goal here and specifically in the next subchapter to fill it with empirical content and
show that the H-α schema is directly applicable to SC structures.
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
So, the SC predicate β is a SO that is constructed at an earlier stage of the deriva-
tion. This SO does not bear an EF.34 This is not much of a problem though, because
according to (83)/(84) it is enough if one of the Merge-partners is a SO that bears
an EF, i.e. an LI. By all standard accounts the Relator head R is such an LI. Thus the
derivation can proceed with Merger of β and R rendering another SO that does not
bear an EF. What is problematic is the next step in the derivation. Merger of the SO
α, which does not bear an EF, with the SO created by Merger of β and R, which,
alas, is also EF-less. This, of course, is the standard problem that emerges not only
in SCs but in all cases that involve Merger of a specifier. An observation that I will
come back to immediately.
But before doing that, let me just briefly digress and take into account Moro’s
(2000) SC analysis here. Of course, a PoS based analysis, of which XP – XP Merger
is a hallmark, is preempted by (83)/(84). The only PoS that can ever arise is one
that results from Merger of two heads, which both bear EFs. A PoS that results
from Merger of two phrases is banned in a principled way. This is, sort of, what is
expected from an analysis that excludes all precedence information and LCA con-
siderations from narrow syntax.
So let us now turn to the question of how the problem of Merger of a specifier
can be solved in a system like the one sketched here and let us see whether the
answer to this problem bears any insights on any of the two SC analyses discussed
in the preceding sections of this chapter.35
Narita (2011) makes an interesting suggestion in this context. The XP – XP
Merger problem is circumvented here by integrating Phase-theory into the analysis.
Similar to the approach taken here, Narita (2011) subscribes to the standard
assumption that Transfer of the Phase-complement applies simultaneously to both
34.	 Actually, this is not a must. Depending on the conception of LI, it may well be that β is just
an LI, e.g. an adjective in the SC construction They made [SC him angry]. On the other hand, this
is not a must either. The SC predicate may well be a complex phrase as in They made [SC him the
youngest senate member ever to give a speech at the convention], which is most certainly not just
an LI and thus most certainly does not bear an EF. Note further that, according to our use of EFs
and of syntactic composition discussed at length in Chapter 2, an adjective that is a minimax
projection, as in the example above, is not an LI containing an EF either. It rather is a SO that is
the result of Merger of a little a-node with a root, which both contain an EF and thus are both
susceptible to Merge.
35.	 Of course, one very easy answer would be to simply assume that heads project their EFs.
This is the analysis explicitly pursued in Chomsky (2007; 2008) and also discussed in Narita
(2011). However, it comes at the cost of reintegrating labeling and projection into BPS and of
loosing some explanatory force for certain CED phenomena (cf. Narita 2011 and discussion
below for further discussion).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
interfaces36 (cf. discussion in Chapter 1.2). Strictly in line with the stronger version
of the PIC (cf. Chomsky 2001; 2004), Narita (2011) further assumes that spelled-out
pieces of structure are inaccessible for further computational steps. Following
Chomsky (2008: 142) this leads to a conception under which spelled-out structural
chunks are not only inaccessible in the remainder of the derivation, they are ‘forgot-
ten’ (cf. ibid).37 What is crucial in this context is that Narita (2011: 46–47) argues that
this does not only apply to the complement domain or the Phase-interior, but strict-
ly includes the relations that pertain to the Phase-head and the Phase-interior com-
plement domain. In particular it applies to the constitute relation in (86) (cf. ibid):
	 (86)	 α and β constitute γ (or conversely, γ consists of α and β) iff γ is the output
of Merge (α, β).
So provided that either α or β is a Phase-head that is merged to the already existing
SO (either α or β), the result of this Merge operation is the SO γ. Upon Transfer,
which coincides with the Merger of the Phase-head, however, the complement
domain of the Phase-head is subjected to Spell-Out and thus rendered inert for the
remainder of the derivation and along with that also the relation that holds be-
tween the Phase-head and the spelled-out complement is forgotten. This in es-
sence means that Merger of a Phase-head has the effect of canceling the relation of
the Phase-head to its complement immediately upon Transfer. Schematically, this
can be represented as follows:
	 (87)	 a.	 Merge of α and β, α being a Phase-head:
			
		 b.	 Transfer and Spell-Out applies to the Phase-complement:
			 αEF [adapted from Narita 2011: 46]
36.	 In fact, Narita (2011: 38 & 46) identifies Transfer as the composite Interpret, which maps to
C-I, and Spell-Out, which maps to S-M. This has no impact on the simultaneity of the operation
though. In this chapter. I will stick to simultaneous mapping to C-I and S-M too, however, I will
not distinguish between the two in the terms that Narita does. Instead, I will make use of the
more traditional terminology, which was also used in the preceding chapters, and use Spell-Out
as the cover term for the mapping operations at both interfaces.
37.	 Again, Chomsky (2008: 142) is quick to add that this conception of cyclicity is the only one
that is strictly in line with the SMT.
38.	 The EF on α is an uncontested fact that results from the simple fact that α is an LI. Whether
β bears an EF too, is a matter of debate. In all likelihood β is a SO that is a maximal projection
and thus does not bear an EF. This is unproblematic though, because according to (84) the EF
on α is sufficient for the derivation to proceed.
αEF
β38
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
What (87) clearly shows is that what is left after the application of Transfer is just
the Phase-head. All relations that pertain to the Phase-head and its complement
domain are discharged upon Spell-Out as well.
It is this very simple assumption that provides the key to the solution of the XP
– XP Merger problem, which is eventually also applicable to the analysis of SCs. To
see how, remember that Chomsky (2008) argues that EFs on LIs never delete. This,
of course, does not mean that these features are accessible in the derivation at all
times. As soon as LIs that contain those EFs are embedded within a (complex)39
SO, their EFs are inert, because these do not percolate. Yet, as soon as the comple-
ment domain of a Phase-head is transferred, as described in (87), the EF on the
remaining Phase-head is accessible again, because this Phase-head is just an LI.
This is indicated in (87b).
Then, specifiers, which are apparent cases of XP – XP Merger, are entirely un-
problematic – at least when they are merged to Phase-heads. It is the EF on the
Phase-head that satisfies the H-α schema here and makes Merger of a SO – that
does not bear an EF – in specifier position possible (cf. Narita 2011: 47).40 So, the
Phase-head α in (87b) is available for a further Merge operation with a SO γ,
(which again may or may not bear an EF itself),41 in its specifier:
	 (88)	 Merge of α and γ, α being a Phase-head whose complement domain has	
been discharged:
		 	 [adapted from Narita 2011: 47]
So apparent Merger of two XPs emerges as unproblematic in those cases where at
least one of the two XPs can be reduced to a Phase-head with a spelled-out com-
plement domain. This immediately begs two questions though:
1.	 How are cases of IM dealt with?
2.	 How is it possible to Merge a specifier to a Non-Phase-head?
39.	 Complexity is a relative notion here. In principle Merger of two LIs bearing EFs each is
enough to create such a SO, because neither LI will project its EF (cf. discussion above and
Narita (2011: 46–52)).
40.	 Notice, that this has the not unwelcome side-effect of making some sense of the First-
Merge and later/Second-Merge distinction between complements and specifiers. This distinc-
tion is almost irrelevant to syntax under this approach, because every Merger of the Phase-head
is an instance of First-Merge in the relevant stage of the derivation.
41.	 Again, it is most likely that γ corresponds to a maximal projection, i.e. a SO that does not
bear an EF, but there is at least a very real possibility that γ is an LI, i.e. a SO with an EF. For
elaboration on this latter option cf. the discussion below and Narita (2011).
γ αEF
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Both questions are related in so far, as they receive a uniform answer. IM is tradi-
tionally identified as (Re-)Merger from a complement position to a higher speci-
fier position. If, however, the complement domain of a Phase-head is spelled-out,
the material inside this domain should not be accessible to any further operations.
So IM should be generally unavailable, which is, of course, contrary to all standard
observations.
Similarly, a Non-Phase-head should never be able to merge a specifier. Such a
head, of course, cannot Spell-Out its complement and thus is stuck in a SO without
an EF. The phrase that is to be merged as a specifier is also a SO without an EF and
thus Non-Phase-heads should not accept specifiers, which is, again, contrary to all
standard observations. The answer that Narita (2011) provides is that the SO that
is merged in the specifier position is itself a spelled-out Phase-head. So, let us as-
sume for ease of exposition that α corresponds to T, i.e. a Non-Phase-head by
standard assumptions. T is merged to a previously constructed SO γ by virtue of
its EF. The result is a SO without an EF:
	 (89)	
In the next step the SO that is merged to the complex in (89) must be one bearing
an EF according to the H-α schema. The standard case for Merger in what is tradi-
tionally called Spec, TP is a DP. Let us follow the (more or less) standard assump-
tion that DPs are Phases (cf. e.g. Svenonius 2004; Bošković 2005; Hiraiwa 2005;
Matushansky 2005; Müller & Heck 2008; Ott 2008; Samuels 2008; Richards 2012).
Under this assumption the D-head is a Phase-head whose complement domain
has been subjected to Spell-Out along the lines discussed in (89). Thus, what is
merged in Spec, TP is basically a Phase-head with an EF (cf. also Narita 2011:
49–52):42
	 (90)	
42.	 Of course, this DP is most likely one that is merged in Spec, vP first. From there it dislocates
to Spec, TP by IM. What is crucial is that this dislocation operation is only possible, when the
DP is a spelled-out Phase. The same can be derived for all instances of IM (cf. Narita 2011: 49).
In principle, however, nothing speaks against EM in such a position. So that EM in Spec, TP
needs to be ruled out by other principles or it needs to be accepted as a general possibility (and
surely nothing speaks against this procedure in other cases of merging a specifier to any other
Non-Phase-head either).
TEF
γ
SO
TEF
γ
SO
DEF
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
So, after having laid out the general mechanism of the H-α schema as a viable
analysis that provides a reasonable solution to the problem of XP – XP Merger –
without making recourse to precedence information within narrow syntax – let us
now turn to the question of how this can be accommodated to the analysis of SCs.
4.4	 SCs and the H-α schema
The insights from the H-α schema discussed in the preceding section provide for
a straightforward analysis for SCs. So let us finally see what can be gained from
applying the H-α schema to the two broad analyses of SCs discussed in Chapter
4.2 and let us start with the predication analysis of den Dikken (2006; 2007a;b).
Under this analysis a Relator head mediates the predication relation between the
two SC constituents. This Relator head is identified as a Phase-head. So Merger of
one of the SC constituents in Spec, R should not constitute a problem, because the
spelled-out Phase-head R will have its EF available for Merger with another SO
that need not have an EF itself. Hence the derivation proceeds as follows:
	 (91)	 a.	 Merger of the Phase-head R with SO β:
			
		 b.	 Transfer of Phase-interior (including relations pertaining to the Phase-
head and its complement):
			 REF
		 c.	 Merger of Phase-head R with SO α:
			
The same can be applied to the predicate inversion structures, where again the
interplay between EFs on functional heads and on spelled-out Phase-heads of
more complex SOs allows for the following derivation:
	 (92)	 a.	 Merger of R-head with SC predicate:
			
REF
β
SO
α REF
SO
REF
β
SO
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
		 b.	 Merger of SO α as a Phase-head with spelled-out complement domain,
i.e. Merger via the EF on α:
			
		 c.	 Merger of Phase-head F:
			
		 d.	 IM of R in F and of ß in Spec, FP:43
			
		 e.	 Transfer of Phase-complement:
			
Hence, when integrating the insights from the H-α schema into the account of den
Dikken (2006; 2007a;b), the extraction behavior of SC subjects in predicate inver-
sion contexts falls out as a natural consequence. In effect, the stipulations involved
43.	 For this to actually work out, β must of course be merged as a Phase-head with a spelled-out
complement domain, because otherwise the EF on β would not be available.
REF
β
SO
SO
αEF
αEF
SO
REF
β
SO
SO
FEF
FEF
+R SO
αEF
SO
REF
β
SO
SO
βEF
FEF
+R
SO
βEF
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
in Phase extension are obsolete under this approach and can be done away with.
However, many of the problematic aspects highlighted in Chapter 4.2 remain.
Before dealing with these aspects, however, let us reflect on the analysis laid out
in Moro (2000) and see how this plays out under the H-α schema. The H-α schema
seems to be a natural strategy for the cases of XP – XP Merger that Moro identifies
too. All that is needed for merging the SC subject and predicate without a mediat-
ing head is that at least one of these constituents is merged as a Phase-head.
Consider first in this context those SCs that consist of a DP – AP structure, an
example of which is repeated below:
	 (93)	 Les filles sont intelligentes.
Nothing prevents us from assuming that the DP les filles is de facto merged as a
Phase-head with a spelled-out complement domain.44 Actually, this is what is
needed for independent reasons anyway, in order to get to grips with a structure in
which the AP has a modifying function over the DP as in the following example:
	 (94)	 les filles intellegentes
Under all standard analyses the AP is merged in Spec, NP in (94) and thus again,
either the AP itself or the DP must be merged as a spelled-out Phase-head with an
accessible EF. Otherwise Narita’s (2011) H-α schema in (84) or Kayne’s (2010) ban
on XP – XP Merger would be violated.
Now, it could be argued that which of the two constituents is the one that is
merged as a Phase-head is dictated by the φ-features of the SOs involved. However,
φ-feature assignment in DP – AP structures could just as well be a case of simple
congruence45 and thus an entirely phonological matter. So, if we pursue this analy-
sis, we are in danger of drifting in the same PF-driven direction that we are trying
to get around here by abandoning Moro’s (2000) LCA based analysis.
Further reason to be suspicious about the workings of an analysis based on
φ-feature assignment and checking is that in other instances of SCs which are not
cases of NP – AP structures but rather say of DP – DP structures φ-feature agree-
ment plays no role either:
	 (95)	 Jack is the president.
44.	 Alternatively, we could assume that the AP is a Phase, however, as we will see below
(cf. discussion of the examples in (106) & (107)) there is good indication to assume that APs are
not Phases. One way around this could be to assume that the AP is really just a without any fur-
ther functional projections on top (e.g. no DegP, Grade P oder anything like it), which then makes
a a categorizing x-head with phasal properties, just like n or v. However, I will put these matters
aside here and assume that APs are not Phases (cf. also discussion of example (94) above).
45.	 Many thanks to Thilo Tapppe (p.c.) for pointing this out to me.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
So, in order to maintain a uniform analysis of all SCs that are potential instances
of XP – XP Merger there is reason enough to be careful about an analysis such as
the one briefly sketched above. However, there is no reason for giving up an analy-
sis that is based on the H-α schema. To see how, consider the following possibility:
both SC constituents, i.e. both XPs are merged as spelled-out Phase-heads. Ac-
cording to the H-α schema at least one of the two SOs that partake in Merge must
be an LI with an EF, but nothing prevents both SOs being LIs with EFs. This is the
standard case in First-Merge scenarios (cf. discussion in Chapter 2) but it may well
apply in other places in the derivation as well. And SCs may just be one such case.
For ease of exposition let us again look at an example here. The structure for the
abstract SC in (96) is provided in (97):
	 (96)	 DP1 is [SC [DP1] [DP2]]
	 (97)	 a.	 Merger of DP1 and Merger of DP2
46:
			
		 b.	 Transfer of the complement domain of DP1 and of DP2:
				 D1EF	 D2EF
		 c.	 Merger of DP1 and DP2 by virtue of the EFs on Phase-heads D1 and
D2:
			
(98) summarizes (97a)–(97c):
	 (98)	
46.	 Indices on DPs are used simply to keep them apart. They are not meant to encode any type
of temporal (or other) precedence, so Merger of the two DPs may well proceed in parallel.
47.	 The label SC is again used solely for expository purposes here. This SC is a SO just like any
other brought about by Merge in label-free BPS.
SO
D1EF
SO
D2EF
SC47
D1EF
D2EF
D1EF
D2EF
SC
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
So, the H-α schema is also compatible with Moro’s (2000) analysis of SCs. Cases of
apparent XP – XP Merger are reduced to cases of X – X Merger and a PoS moti-
vated analysis plays no role in the absence of the LCA or other means of encoding
of directionality in narrow syntax.48 In fact, the analysis for Moro’s structures is
virtually indistinguishable from the structures that the H-α schema derives for
den Dikken’s (2006; 2007a;b) analysis, since at least for the predicate inversion
analysis in den Dikken, both the SC subject and the SC predicate must be a Phase-
head with a spelled-out complement domain. Otherwise the SC subject could not
be merged in Spec, RP and the SC predicate could not be internally merged in
Spec, FP. The only thing that is absent here is the Relator head, which was of un-
clear status in den Dikken’s (2006; 2007a;b) account anyway.
Actually, the lack of interpretive force on the part of the Relator head was
deemed reason enough to be suspicious about its status. As it stands, it looks like
this head violates FI (cf. (80) above) and should be done away with.49
Additionally, as has been indicated above already, Narita refers to one more
aspect that gives reason to be doubtful of the analysis of den Dikken (2006;
2007a;b). Let us look at the analysis for the predicate inversion structure once
again. What is most striking about this analysis is that den Dikken (2006) argues
that the Relator head moves to the higher F-head and that the SC predicate, which
is initially merged as a complement to the Relator head, undergoes IM too and
ends up in Spec, FP. Even when abstracting away from the problem of why it is not
the SC subject that is being targeted by IM, a problem that can be accounted for
either under den Dikken’s (2007a;b) analysis of Phase extension50 or under more
standard accounts of c-command and Phase-level evaluation of φ-features (cf. e.g.
Hiraiwa 2005; Gallego 2010), the IM operations outlined by den Dikken are
48.	 One question that could be asked here is what drives movement of one of the SC constitu-
ents to a higher ‘specifier’ position then. If the PoS-dissolving motivation for movement is gone,
as it apparently is, there is virtually none left under Moro’s (2000; 2009) analysis. This observa-
tion is certainly correct, but there are a number of possible motivations movement to the left.
The simplest probably being an EPP-feature that attracts any of the two SC constituents. These
can, of course, be internally merged by virtue of the EF that does not delete and is never checked
(cf. Chomsky 2008). So IM is virtually unbounded for Phase-heads with spelled-out comple-
ment domains. And the lack of extraction from these constituents follows naturally from their
status as spelled-out elements (cf. Narita 2011 for a detailed analysis of when CEDs emerge un-
der the H-α schema).
49.	 As remarked earlier (cf. Chapter 4.2) the Relator head should therefore be abandoned for
the very same reason that Chomsky eventually abandoned Agr categories – for lack of interpre-
tive content either at SEM or at PHON and thus for marking a departure from the SMT.
50.	 RecallthatdenDikken(2006;2007a;b)adducesPhaseextensionasamechanismto getaround
a violation of the MLC. This can, of course, be accounted for by other less stipulated means.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
problematic. The problem hinges on the fact that both constituents that are ini-
tially merged (i.e. the R-head and the SC predicate) are displaced. Narita (2011:
124), following the P&P tradition of marking displaced elements refers to these as
instances of {t, t}, which he argues to be illicit:
	 (99)	 *{t, t}
		 C-I cannot assign a legitimate interpretation to a SO whose two members
are both copies of some displaced, i.e. internally merged, elements.
		 [adapted from Narita 2011: 124]
The reason why Narita identifies {t, t} as illicit is that despite the fact that it is gener-
ated by the H-α schema it violates FI – i.e. it goes against the principle that has been
giving rise to concern above already. Why this should be so is immediately obvious
when taking into consideration how traces (or deleted copies for that matter) are
interpreted at the interfaces. Narita (2011: 124–125) proposes the following char-
acterization for the interpretation of an unpronounced copy at the C-I interface:51
	(100)	 Endocentric interpretation for IM at SEM:
		 {H, α} formed by IM contributes to an operator-variable formation where
H scopes over α and the copy of H introduced by EM is interpreted as a
logical variable bound by H.
So, what (100) expresses is that the lower copy (that is introduced into the deriva-
tion via EM) is interpreted as a variable that is bound by the higher copy that is
displaced by IM. Narita (2011: 125) pushes this one step further and argues that
the semantic features of the displaced element (H in (100)) are interpreted not in
the base-position, but in the position that H ends up in after the application of IM.
This is again, for ease of exposition, schematically represented in (101):
	(101)	
		 [adapted from Narita 2011: 125]
51.	 Narita (2011) goes into great detail showing that (100) is derivable from the SMT and cor-
roborates FI. Since we already arrived at a similar conclusion above, I will refrain from reiterat-
ing the nitty-gritty of Narita’s analysis here. The interested reader is at this point referred to his
work for further exposition.
α
IM of H
a.
H
…
…
β
H α
Spell-Out/Interpretation of H
b.
x
…
…
β
Πx
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
As a result the externally merged copy of H in (101a) cannot be the head of the SO
that results from Merger of β and H.52
Now, if we apply this line of reasoning to the SC structures discussed above, it
is immediately obvious that, despite the fact that both SC constituents, i.e. the SC
subject and the SC predicate, are merged as Phase-heads with spelled-out comple-
ment domains, it is impossible to subsequently subject both constituents to IM
and displace them. At the same time a clear answer to the question of which of the
two SC constituents is a likely candidate for the head of the construction falls out:
the head of the SO that results from Merger of the SC subject and the SC predicate
is the constituent that is not subjected to IM. Thus, the head of the construction
will vary depending on whether we are looking at what Moro (2000) identifies as
a regular SC or at an inverted SC, simply because either the SC subject has been
displaced and is thus unavailable as a head or, alternatively, the SC predicate has
been displaced and is thus incapable of being the head of the construction.
The same account is transferrable to believe-type verbs. The only difference
being that none of the two constituents that are merged as Phase-heads with
spelled-out Phase-complements undergoes IM in a later stage of the derivation.
Now, it could, of course, be asked how the derivation is ever to proceed from here
on out and how the two SC constituents are ordered eventually. Before answering
the second part of this question in a more roundabout way, let me briefly comment
on the first part here by looking at a structure for this type of clause as well:
	(102)	 [v believe [SC [α] [β]]]
As shown in (102) α and β are the SC constituents, which according to the analysis
above have both been merged as Phase-heads with spelled-out complement do-
mains. In a next step the believe-type v constituent is merged. This is done via the
EF on v. What is not determined upon Merger of α and β is which of the two con-
stituents is the head. Yet, this does not seem to cause a problem, because all that is
needed for the derivation to proceed is that the next SO that is merged be an LI
with an EF – a requirement that is fulfilled by v.53 Taking into account that v is a
52.	 In standard cases, this automatically entails that β is an element that has predicative proper-
ties and that can theta-mark H. In Narita’s system theta-roles are assigned under EM, which
follows from the endocentric interpretation for EM at SEM that he offers. Again, this is derivable
from the SMT, corroborating the assumptions expressed by FI. Again I will not go into the de-
tails here, as it is unlikely that theta-roles play a role in the SC structures we are looking at here.
53.	 Of course, this is by no means conclusive evidence that there is no need for head-determi-
nation at this stage of the derivation and, in fact, a number of possible scenarios can be likened
here. One is the mechanism of Minimal Head Detection (cf. Narita 2009; 2011) that can per-
fectly sufficiently take care of the issue, but others can also be found. Since this, however, is not
pertinent to the discussion here, I will refrain from going into the details here.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Phase-head, that spells-out its complement domain at some point in the deriva-
tion, the problem that might arise from the failure of producing a label for the SO
that results from Merger of α and β can possibly be dissolved at PF, similar to the
solution offered in Chapter 2 for nominal root compounds where a similar situa-
tion arises.54
However, if on the right track, these observations cast some doubt on the over-
all validity of *{t, t} and its implications as they have been described above. Why
should *{t, t} provide a means for identifying the head of bare SC constructions, if
it fails to do so in SCs that are complements of believe-type verbs? It has already
been indicated above that IM of one of the SC constituents in a higher position in
bare SCs can just as well be linked to e.g. EPP-feature requirements with basically
the same consequences falling out as those attributed to *{t, t} above. Additionally,
it is worth noticing that the establishment of an operator-variable relation, as de-
scribed by Narita (2011) in the context of the *{t, t} constraint only makes sense
when one of the constituents actually is one that has the capacity of establishing a
relation that is accessible to an operator-variable pair. This is not necessarily the
case for the two SC constituents. Recall that Heycock & Kroch (1999) already
pointed out that both SC constituents may actually be referential DPs in equative
constructions. For these it is virtually impossible to establish such a relation and
they should thus both be available for displacement, defying *{t, t}.
So, the conclusion that I would like to draw at this point is that *{t, t} is of no
relevance in SC constructions that are built according to the H-α schema.55 Thus,
the H-α schema provides a simple and unconstrained means to derive SC con-
structions without the need to make recourse neither to unmotivated PoS analyses
that are susceptible to PF-requirements only, nor to stipulated LF-requirements
that center around a questionable conception of predication.56
54.	 In fact, the spelled-out Phase-heads of the SC constituents resemble the uncategorized
roots that are found in non-productive, non-recursive root compounds very much. This would
also explain why incorporation (cf. also the discussion below) is not an option here. Another
reason would probably be that the spelled-out complement domain of these Phase-heads,
though ‘forgotten’ (cf. Chomsky 2008) is still hocked up to the Phase-head by a multiple domi-
nance structure that allows for reassembling the spelled-out parts with the root (cf. Nunes 2004;
Narita 2011 for further explanations).
55.	 Whether the constraint is actually operative at some other place in FLN is a matter of de-
bate – Narita (2011) himself remarks that this constraint is rather speculative. However, I do not
a priori want to exclude the possibility that *{t, t} may be operative in some limited domain in
narrow syntax and will leave the answer to this question open here. The only point that is of
importance is that, as expressed above, the constraint is not operative on SC structures.
56.	 Of course, it may well be that predication actually plays a role in these structures and that a
predication relation can be read off the representation that is built in syntax and handed to C-I
upon Spell-Out. This is, however, then a product not of FLN but rather of an interplay between
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
4.5	 Basic structures and multiple wh-fronting data
In this section the structures of SCs derived by the H-α schema are discussed in
more detail. In a first step I will look at the basic structures of SCs and their deriva-
tion under the H-α schema. Here it will already become obvious that Transfer and
IM are intimately related, in so far as the local application of Transfer has implica-
tions for the movement options of the already transferred items.
Building on this insight I will examine wh-extraction and wh-subextraction
possibilities of SC constituents in multiple wh-fronting languages and show –
following the H-α schema – that multiple wh-extraction, i.e. IM of already
transferred SOs, which are then reduced to simple LIs, is unproblematic. Subex-
traction from one SC constituent combined with full extraction of the other SC
constituent is also unproblematic, as long as the fully extracted constituent is
remerged as an LI and the subextracted element corresponds to an LI as well.
Both can, of course be remerged as LIs only if they are Phase-heads with spelled-
out complement domains and the subextracted element must be extracted from
a SO that has not been spelled-out yet, i.e. it must be from the base-position. The
idea here is that once an item has undergone IM it must have been reduced to an
LI, which automatically means that its domain should not be accessible for sub-
extraction. This leads to the prediction that under the H-α schema it should not
be possible to subextract from both SC constituents – since at least one of the SC
constituents must be merged as an LI, thus automatically blocking subextrac-
tion. This prediction is shown to be supported by data from multiple wh-front-
ing languages.
So, let us start with a compilation of the possible structures that the H-α
schema generates for the SC cases. From the discussion in the previous chapter
it has already become clear that it is impossible to merge two XPs along a Moro
(2000) style analysis. A den Dikken (2006; 2007a;b) style analysis in which a SC
is a structure that is mediated by some abstract functional head is also impos-
sible, because it does not only bring up a host of questions about the properties
of the functional head but it also faces the additional problem of XP – XP
Merger that emerges whenever an XP is merged in the specifier position of
some other projection.
The answer devised by the H-α schema is that Merger of two XPs is univer-
sally unavailable and that at least one of the maximal projections, which are really
just SOs without EFs rather than dedicated projections of any functional or lexical
FLN and what is often called the ‘third-factor’, i.e. language-external processing mechanisms.
And in so far, this is well outside the research focus that this account here is grounded on, which
is reason enough to leave it aside here.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
head (cf. Narita 2011), is merged as a Phase-head with a spelled-out complement
domain. This, as has been schematically illustrated in the preceding section, is also
what is at work in SCs. However, a number of questions on the exact workings of
the H-α schema remain open under the discussion in Chapter 4.4 and these are
addressed here.
Thus, as has been indicated already, it is possible under the H-α schema that
the two SC constituents are both merged as Phase-heads. This is what is schemati-
cally illustrated in (97)–(98). In consequence, it should, in principle, be possible to
remerge both of the SC constituents in later steps of the derivation. This is basi-
cally the situation that we expect for the predicate inversion structures with
wh-movement:
	(103)	 a.	 What do you think this man is [SC this man what]?
		 b.	 Who do you think the best president was [SC who the best president]?
In (103a) the SC predicate is wh-extracted and the SC subject is wh-extracted in
(103b). Provided further that both SC constituents are merged below the copula, as
sketched in (97)–(98) the non wh-extracted constituent must have moved too. Since
both SC constituents are non-LIs, i.e. SOs without EFs, both of them must have been
remerged as a Phase-head with a spelled-out complement domain. Thus, the deriva-
tion for these SC structures is shown in (104) and (105) respectively:
	(104)	 Derivation for what do you think this man is?
		 Step 1: Construction of SO1 = this man and construction of SO2 = what
		 Step 2: Spell-Out of complement domains of Phase-heads in SO1 and
SO2.
		
57.	 Please note that the structure for the wh-element given here is for purely demonstrative
purposes. I remain agnostic to the exact structure of the wh-SO and just assume that like under
all standard analyses it moves as a ‘phrasal’ category. This entails that it must move as a Phase-
head with a spelled-out complement domain in an analysis that subscribes to the H-α schema.
Whether it moves as a wh-head, as a Q-head (cf. Cable 2010; Narita 2011) or anything else is a
question that I leave unaddressed here, because it is orthogonal to the current point. All that
matters is that the wh-element moves as a Phase-head with a spelled-out complement domain,
i.e. as an LI with an EF that is accessible for Merge.
N
SO1
D
this man
…
SO2
57
wh
what
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
		 Step 3: Merger of DEF with WHEF.
		
		 Step 4: Merger of the copular via the EF on the LI:
		
		 Step 5: IM of DEF with SO:
		
		 Step 6:58 IM of WHEF to SO:
		
58.	 This step might not even be necessary, assuming that WHEF is still accessible in its base-
position for so long as no other Phase-head that triggers Transfer is merged in the ‘clausal’ spine
represented by SO. Thus, intermediate movement of WHEF to SO is only necessary for keeping
WHEF available in the derivation, i.e. for omitting Transfer of WHEF as an element in the com-
plement domain of some SO.
WHEF
SO
DEF
SO
SO
isEF
WHEF
DEF
SO
SO
DEF
SO
isEF
WHEF
DEF
SO
SO
WHEF
SO
DEF
SO
isEF
WHEF
DEF
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
		 Step 7: IM of WHEF to SO ‘headed’59 by C:
		
	(105)	 Derivation for who do you think the best president was?
		 Step 1:	
Construction of SO1 = who and construction of SO2 = the best
president
		 Step 2: Spell-Out of complement domains of Phase-heads in SO1 and SO2:
		
		 Result of Step 2:
			 WHEF	 DEF
		 Step 3: Merger of WHEF with DEF.
		 Result of Step 3:
		
59.	 This is for purely expository reasons again. In traditional terms this derivational step
would have been characterized as ‘IM in Spec, CP’. However, since under the H-α schema
such labels are an unwarranted deviation from SMT, they can and should not be used. How-
ever, it is at times hard to refer to syntactic positions without indicating in traditional
terminological terms which position is meant. This is why headed is put in single quotation
marks here.
SO
SO
WHEF
SO
CEF
SO
WHEF
SO
DEF
SO
isEF
WHEF
DEF
…
SO1
wh
who
SO
SO2
D
the
best president
DEF
SO
WHEF
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
		 Step 4: Merger of the copular via the EF on the LI:
		
		 Step 5: IM of DEF with SO:
		
		 Step 6:60 IM of WHEF to SO:
		
60.	 Again, this step might be omissible (cf. comments in footnote 58 above).
SO
SO
isEF
DEF
WHEF
SO
SO
DEF
SO
wasEF
DEF
WHEF
SO
SO
WHEF
SO
DEF
SO
wasEF
DEF
WHEF
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
		 Step 7: IM of WHEF to SO ‘headed’ by C:
		
Now, the examples in (106) illustrate further that it is not possible to remerge a SC
predicate that is an AP outside of the copular construction:
	(106)	 *Who do you think intelligent is?
This is not much of a surprise, because from the discussion in Moro (2000) we
already know that it is not possible to have an inverse bare copular SC with these
SC constituents either:
	(107)	 *Intelligent is the president.
Both of these facts follow naturally from an analysis that is based on the H-α sche-
ma. While a SC predicate that is a DP can easily be remerged higher in the deriva-
tion via the EF on D, this is not an option for a SC that contains a SC predicate that
is an AP; since APs cannot be reduced to LIs, basically because the A is not a
Phase-head that has the potential of spelling-out its complement domain. The
same logic can be applied to SC constructions that have a PP predicate. Again,
because P is not a Phase-head, it is expected that P cannot be extracted out of the
SC and thus cannot occur in inverse copular constructions:
	
(108)	 a.	 The president is in the rose garden.
		 b.	 *In the rose garden is the president.
		 c.	 *Who do you think in the rose garden is?
		 d.	 Which garden do you think the president is in?61
61.	 Notice though that the following is also grammatical:
	 (i)	 In which garden do you think the president is?
	 (ii)	 The president is angry at the crowd.
SO
SO
WHEF
SO
CEF
SO
WHEF
SO
DEF
SO
wasEF
DEF
WHEF
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
The inverted bare copular SC in (108c) is ungrammatical, because the PP cannot
be remerged outside the SC. This is because P is not a Phase-head and thus the SO
in the rose garden cannot be reduced to an LI with an EF. (108c) illustrates basi-
cally the same point. However, extraction from inside the PP, as in (108d), is ex-
pected to be grammatical, because the interior of the PP remains accessible for
the same reason, i.e. that P is not a Phase-head. This leaves us with the situation
that the derivation of the SC in (108) (and by analogy in (106) and (107)) pro-
ceeds as follows:
	(109)	 Derivation of the president is [SC the president in the rose garden].
		 Step 1: Construction of SO1 = the president & SO2 = in the rose garden
		 Step 2: Spell-Out of complement domain of SO1:
		
		 Result of Step 2:
		 DEF
		 Step 3: Merger of SO1 and SO2:
		

Both seem to be counterexamples: the first because the PP is extracted, which should not be
possible given that P is not Phase-head and thus not reducible to an LI. The second is a potential
counterexample basically for the same reason. If neither A nor P is a Phase-head, then it should
not be possible to merge these in an SC – simply because at least one must be merged as an LI
with an EF under the H-α schema. One possible solution would be to say that a distinction
needs to be made between lexical prepositions, which are not Phase-heads and those Ps that are
just Case assigners. In the latter Case the PPs then behave like other DP-Phases and thus can
spell-out their complement domain.
	 Another way to go about this is to assume that angry is itself a SC introducing predicate.
The relevant SC then is [SC[at] [the crowd]]. In this case the SC constituent [the crowd] is just a
DP that can easily be reduced to an LI with an EF via Spell-Out of the complement domain of D
along the by now familiar lines. So although there are some apparent counterexamples, this does
not mean that they pose an insurmountable difficulty for the analysis pursued here and this is
why I will put them aside in the remainder of this chapter.
N
SO1
D
the president
SO
SO
isEF
PP
the
DEF
in the rose garden
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
		 Step 4: Merger of the copular via the EF on the LI:
		
		 Step 5: IM of DEF with SO:
		
The PP in Step 5 is not available for extraction, because it cannot be reduced to an
LI with an EF and thus cannot be merged to the complex SO under the H-α sche-
ma. However, as the example in (108d) shows, extraction from inside the PP is still
an option, which is what is expected from SOs that are not reduced to Phase-heads
with spelled-out complement domains.
In consequence, it should also be possible to extract from inside a DP in SC
constructions. Let us consider a SC that contains two DPs in this context. The fol-
lowing SC has a DP as a SC subject and another DP as a SC predicate:
	(110)	 The president of the US is [SC the president of the US the leader of the free
world].
Under the H-α schema it is necessary that for the two SC constituents to undergo
Merger at least one is of them is merged as an LI with an EF, i.e. as a Phase-head
with a spelled-out complement domain. At the same time, it is also sufficient, if at
least one of the two SC DPs is merged as an LI, i.e. as a Phase-head with a spelled-
out complement domain.
SO
SO
isEF
PP
the
DEF
in the rose garden
SO
SO
DEF
SO
isEF
PP
DEF
in the rose garden
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
This in turn leaves the theoretical option that one of the DPs, i.e. the one that
is not merged as an LI to form the SO that makes up the SC, does not transfer its
complement.62 Thus, up to this point the derivation proceeds as follows:
	(111)	 Derivation of [SC the president of the US the leader of the free world]
		 Step 1: 
Construction of SO1 = the president of the US & construction of
SO2 = the leader of the free world
		 Step 2: 
Spell-Out of the complement domain of at least one SO (here:
SO1)63:
			
		 Result of Step 2:
			 DEF
		 Step 3: Merger of DEF with SO2:
			
If correct, this now predicts that it should be possible to extract from inside the SC
predicate, simply because the complement domain of D2 has not been spelled-out.
This is indeed what we find:64
62.	 At least the complement domain of this DP is not transferred straight away. It probably is
transferred at some stage in the derivation. However, the question regarding the exact timing is
something that I will remain agnostic to here.
63.	 This is a random choice at this point. It could well be the other SO that spells-out its com-
plement domain. I will return to the consequences that follow from whether it is D1 or D2 that
spells-out its complement domain instantly.
64.	 Again, I regard this structure as basically equivalent to:
	 (i)	 Which world is the president of the US the leader of?

The flexibility of extracting just the DP or the of-PP can again be explained quite easily by ana-
lyzing the preposition just as a Case-assigning element, i.e. as a KP, as opposed to a lexical PP
(cf. Narita 2011 for arguments that go into this direction, as well as comments in footnote 61
SO1
D
the
president of the US
SO2
DEF2
SO
the
DEF
the
leader of the free world
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	(112)	 Of which world is the president of the US the leader?
Similarly, we predict that even extraction from DPs that are SC subjects should be
possible, as long as the complement domain of the relevant DP has not been trans-
ferred. This is, of course, only possible when the SC predicate is also a DP that is
merged as an LI with an EF. Thus, it should not be possible to extract from a SC
subject when the SC predicate is either not a DP or – if it is a DP – did not spell-out
its complement domain:
	(113)	 Of which country is the president the leader of the free world?
	(114)	 a.	 *Of which country is the president in the rose garden?
		 b.	 *Of which country is the president intelligent?
The grammaticality of (113) receives a natural explanation under the H-α schema.
Assuming that the SC predicate, i.e. the DP the leader of the free world, is merged
to the SC subject, i.e. the DP the president of which country, as an LI with an EF, the
SC subject need not necessarily spell-out its complement domain as well. If it does
not, it is still possible to subextract from the SC subject. This is not the case in the
examples in (114) where the PP and AP cannot be merged as LIs with EFs simply
because neither P nor A are Phase-heads. Thus, the only option remaining is that
the DP the president of which country is merged as a Phase-head with a spelled-out
complement domain. However, then extraction is predicted to be impossible,
which is what is confirmed by the data in (114).65
Further interesting data comes from languages that allow multiple wh-front-
ing. Let us look at Czech, which is a language with optional multiple wh-fronting.
Starting with the SC in (111) The president of the US is the leader of the free world,
we can observe the following. It is possible to extract both SC constituents:
	(115)	 a.	 Kdo	 co	 je? Czech
			 Who	 what	 is?
			 ‘Who is what’?
above and in footnote 11 of Chapter 5 and the discussion of the data from the Slavic languages
below, where English of is realized as genitive Case).
65.	 A similar case in point can be made by the following examples:
	 (i)	 The man from Boston/Jack is angry about the problem.
	 (ii)	 a.	 About which problem is the man from Boston/Jack angry?
		 b.	 From where is the man from angry about the problem?

The relevant structure of the SC is the following [SC[DP the man from Boston] [AP angry about the
problem]]. Assuming, as before, that the AP is not a Phase, the only option is that the DP is
merged as an LI, i.e. via the EF on the spelled-out Phase-head D. At the same time this predicts
that subextraction from inside the DP is not an option. Subextraction from inside the AP, on the
other hand, is predicted to be fine, because the complement domain of the A-head is not trans-
ferred, because A is not a Phase-head.
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
		 b.	 Kdo	 je	 co? Czech
			 Who	 is	 what
			 ‘Who is what’?
The form in (115a) displays multiple wh-fronting and the one in (115b) is the one
where one of the wh-elements is left inside the SC. Both structures are compatible
with the H-α schema. It is no surprise that both wh-elements can be extracted
from the SC, because they can both be reduced to LIs with EFs.66 Thus, extraction
of both SC constituents is what is predicted to be possible in multiple wh-fronting
languages.
Further, Czech allows subextraction from the SC predicate. Subextraction
from the SC subject seems to be out for independent reasons:
	(116)	 a.	 *Které	 země	 je	 prezident Czech
			 Which.gen	country.gen	is	 predsident.nom
			 ‘Of which country is the president the leader of the free world?’
			 vládcem/vládce	 svobodného	 světa?
			 leader.inst/leader.nom	 free.gen	 world.gen
		 b.	 Jakého	 světa	 je	 prezident Czech
			 What.kind.of.gen	world.gen	is	 president.nom
			 ‘Of which world is the president of the United States the leader?’
			 Spojených	 státy	 vládcem/vládce?
			 United.gen	States.gen	leader.inst/leader.nom
Now, given that subextraction from the SC subject is out, it should not be possible
to combine subject subextraction with extraction of the SC predicate either. This is
what is confirmed by the data in (117a). However, given that subextraction from
the SC predicate is possible in principle, as (116b) shows, it is expected that in mul-
tiple wh-fronting languages this subextraction can be combined with extraction of
the SC subject. This is because, for subextraction to be possible the SC predicate
must still be accessible, i.e. the SC predicate must still be phrasal and cannot be just
a spelled-out Phase-head that is reduced to an LI with an EF. This, however, also
entails that the SC subject then must be merged as an LI with an EF and as such, it
should also be available for extraction. This is what we see in (117b):
66.	 Note incidentally, that if *{t, t} were real (cf. Narita 2011: 124ff.), the example in (115a)
should not be licit, because here both wh-constituents that make up the SO that is identified as
a SC are moved out of their base position, leaving a SO with just two deleted copies behind.
Narita (2011) speculates that this is a potential violation of FI. However, as is briefly discussed
towards the end of Chapter 4.4 the effects of the *{t, t} constraint can be reduced to other inde-
pendently motivated phenomena. The grammaticality of (115a) can be taken as a further indica-
tion that this is on the right track.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	(117)	 a.	 *Které	 země	 je	 prezident	 čím/co? Czech
			 Which.gen	 country.gen	is	 president.nom	what.inst/what.nom
		 b.	 Kdo	 jakého	 světa	 je	 vládcem? Czech
			 Who.nom	what.gen	world.gen	 is	 leader.inst
			 ‘Who is the leader of which country’?
The H-α schema predicts that, even in multiple wh-fronting languages, it should
not be possible to subextract from both SC constituents. In Czech, however, this is
not testable, because wh-extraction from the SC subject is out for independent
reasons. However, the rest of the pattern found in Czech is totally in line with the
predictions from the H-α schema.
What is also interesting about the Czech data is that, when comparing the bare
copular constructions to SCs that are complements of believe-type verbs, exactly
the same pattern emerges. Thus, in a SC like the one in (118) below, it is possible
to fully extract both DPs that constitute the SC, as is shown in (119):
	(118)	 Nazvali	 prezidenta	 Spojených	 státy	 vládcem Czech
		 called.3.pl	president.acc	United.gen	States.gen	leader.inst
		 ‘They called the president of the United States the
		 svobodných	národa.
		 free.gen	 nations.gen
		 leader of the free nations’.
	(119)	 a.	 Koho	 čím	 nazvali? Czech
			 Who.acc	what.inst	called.3.pl
			 ‘Who did they call what’?
		 b.	 Čím	 koho	 nazvali? Czech
			 What.inst	who.acc	 called.3.pl
			 ‘Who did they call what’?
And again, it is not possible to subextract from the SC subject, while subextraction
from the SC predicate is much better:
	(120)	 a.	 *Ktherého	 státu	 nazvali	 prezidenta	 vládcem Czech
			 Which.gen	 states.gen	called.3.pl	 president.acc	 leader.inst
			 svobodných	národa?
			 free.gen	 nations.gen
		 b.	 Jakých	 národa	 nazvali	 prezidenta Czech
			 What.kind.gen	 nations.gen	 called.3.pl	 president.acc
			 ‘Of which nations did they call the president
			 Spojených	 státy	 vládcem?
			 united.gen	 states.gen	leader.inst
			 of the United States the leader’?
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
Thus, it is again not surprising that subextraction from the SC predicate combined
with full extraction of the SC subject is licit, while subextraction from the SC sub-
ject combined with full extraction of the SC predicate is not:
	(121)	 a.	 *Čím	 kterého	 státu	 nazvali	 prezidenta? Czech
			 What.inst	which.gen	state.gen	 called.3.pl	 president.acc
		 b.	 Koho	 nazvali	 vládcem	 jakých	 národa? Czech
			 Who.acc	called.3.pl	 leader.inst	 which.gen	 nations.gen
			 ‘Who did they call of which nations the leader’?
And ultimately it is again not possible to subextract from both SC constituents
either, since subextraction from the SC subject is already blocked:
	(122)	 *Kterého	 státu	 jakých	 národa	 nazvali Czech
		 Which.gen	state.gen	 what.kind.gen	 nations.gen	 called.3.pl
		 prezidenta	 vládcem?
		 president.acc	 leader.inst
Thus, what we can see here is that bare copular SC constructions and SCs that are
complements of believe-type verbs pattern exactly alike in their extraction and
subextraction possibilities. Thus, this can again be taken as an indication that the
underlying structure for the two types of SCs is alike, i.e. the one described above.
Let us now turn to another multiple wh-fronting language: Russian. In Rus-
sian SCs the present tense copula is a covert element:
	(123)	 Prezident	 SŠA	 -	lider Russian
		 President.nom	USA.gen		 leader.nom
		 ‘The president of the US is the leader
		 svobodnyx	 nacij.
		 free.gen.pl	nations.gen
		 of the free nations’.
The copular is only realized overtly, when the SC is in the past tense. Additionally,
the Nominative – Nominative marking on the two SC constituents is changed into
a Nominative – Instrumental marking:
	(124)	 Prezident	 SŠA	 byl	 liderom Russian
		 President.nom	USA.gen	was	leader.inst
		 ‘The president of the US was the leader
		 svobodnyx	 nacij.
		 free.gen.pl	nations.gen
		 of the free nations’.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Now, just like in Czech, it is possible to extract both of the SC constituents in
Russian. However, this is restricted to those bare copular SC constructions where
the copular is overt, i.e. to the past tense variant in (124) and where the two SC
constituents show different case marking:
	(125)	 a.	 Kto	 kem	 byl? Russian
			 Who.nom	who.inst	was
			 ‘Who was what?’
		 b.	 *Kto	 kto? Russian
			 Who.nom	 who.nom
			 ‘Who is what?’
The exact position of the non-overt copular is hard to determine in (125b) and the
ungrammaticality of the example may be the result of fronting two homophonous
wh-elements. This is highly reminiscent of the situation that is well-known from
e.g. the discussion of Serbo-Croatian in Bošković (2002: 364):
	(126)	 *Šta	 šta	 uslovljava? Serbo-Croatian
		 what	what	conditions	
		 ‘What conditions what?’
According to Bošković the ungrammaticality of (126) is the result of fronting two
homophonous wh-words. This is the same result that we can observe in (125b).
Bošković (2002: 355) further argues that wh-fronting, which is obligatory in Serbo-
Croatian, as can be seen from the examples in (127), applies in (126) too, however,
at PF the lower copy is pronounced in order to get rid of the homophony effect
that is created by fronting the two wh-words, which are both šta. This is shown
in (128):
	(127)	 a.	 Ko	 šta	 kupuje? Serbo-Croatian
			 Who	 what	 bought	
			 ‘Who bought what?’
		 b.	 *Ko	 kupuje	 šta? Serbo-Croatian
			 Who	 bought	 what	
	(128)	 Šta	 šta	 uslovljava	 šta? Serbo-Croatian
		 What	what	conditions	what
		 ‘What conditions what?’
In Russian SCs that do not have an overt copular, however, even if applied, the ef-
fect of the PF-deletion mechanism remains vacuous, because the result still is that
two homophonous wh-words are pronounced in immediately adjacent positions:
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
	(129)	 a.	 *Kto		 ∅	 kto? Russian
		 b.	 *Kto	 kto	 ∅	 kto? Russian
		 c.	 *Kto	 kto	 ∅	 kto? Russian
(129) clearly illustrates this. When fronting both wh-elements, as in (129b), PF
requirements lead to phonological deletion of the higher copy. However, due to
the lack of any phonologically realized intervening material, the result under
which the lower copy should be pronounced, is still ungrammatical.
Evidence that this is on the right track comes from the sentences in (130).
Here the null-copular is overt and the same pattern that is observed for Serbo-
Croatian emerges:
	(130)	 a.	 *Kto	 kto	 est’? Russian
			 Who	 who	is
		 b.	 Kto	 est’	 kto? Russian
			 Who	 is	 who
			 ‘Who is what’?
Thus, the underlying structure for (130b) is the one in (131), which parallels the
Serbo-Croatian examples above:
	(131)	 Kto	 kto	 est’	kto? Russian
		 Who	who	is	 who
		 ‘Who is what?’
However, in order to avoid these complications, I will focus on the SC construc-
tions in which the copular is realized overtly, which has the additional effect that
there will be a case distinction on the two DPs so that the corresponding wh-­
elements can conveniently be kept apart. This allows for interesting insights into
superiority effects, as we will see below. So let us first take a look at subextraction.
It is possible to subextract from either one of the two DPs:
	(132)	 a.	 Kakoj	 strany	 byl	 prezident Russian
			 Which.gen	 country.gen	was	president.nom
			 ‘Of which country was the president the
			 liderom	 svobonyx	 nacij?
			 leader.inst	 free.gen.pl	nations.gen
			 leader of the free nations’?
		 b.	 Kakix	 nacij	 byl	 prezident	 SŠA Russian
			 Which	 nations.gen	 was	president.nom	USA.gen
			 ‘Of which nations was the president of the US
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
			 liderom?
			 leader.inst
			 the leader?’
The example in (132a) shows that subextraction from the DP constituent that is
marked for Nominative case is possible and (132b) illustrates subextraction from
the Instrumental marked DP.
Now it is important to recall that according to the H-α schema subextraction
from one of the SC constituents is only possible when this constituent is still acces-
sible, i.e. when the domain of the D-head is not sent to Spell-Out. Once the do-
main is spelled-out subextraction should be blocked. At the same time, in order
for two DPs to be mergeable in a SC, at least one of them must Spell-Out its com-
plement domain, simply because due to the unavailability of XP – XP Merger there
is no other option. This also means that it should be possible to fully extract the DP
that is merged with a spelled-out complement domain and to subextract from the
DP that can still maintain its complement domain accessible. This is what is con-
firmed by the data below:
	(133)	 a.	 Kto	 kakix nacij	 byl	 liderom? Russian
			 Who.nom	which nations.gen	was	leader.inst
			 ‘Who was of which nations the leader?’
		 b.	 Kem	 kakoy strany	 byl	 prezident? Russian
			 Who.inst	 which country.gen	 was	prezident.nom
			 ‘Of which country the president was what?’
(133a) shows that subextraction from the DP that shows Instrumental case marking
can be combined with full extraction of the Nominative DP. In (133b) it is the In-
strumental DP that is fully extracted and the Nominative DP is the constituent that
is subextracted from. Thus, following the H-α schema, it is the Instrumental DP that
spells-out its complement domain in (133b) and the Nomative DP in (133a). Each
of the two DPs is then merged with the respective other DP as an LI with an EF.
The last remaining question is whether subextraction from both DPs is pos-
sible. The H-α schema clearly predicts that this should not be possible, since at
least one of the two DPs must be merged as a Phase-head with a spelled-out com-
plement domain, i.e. as an LI with an accessible EF. Thus, there is simply no way in
which the interior domain of both DPs can be accessible for wh-subextraction.
This is supported by the data in (134):
	(134)	 *Kakoj	 strany	 kakix nacij	 byl Russian
		 Which	county.gen	which nations.gen	was
		 prezident	 liderom?
		 president.nom	leader.inst
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
What is furthermore interesting about the Russian data is that superiority effects
disappear in the SCs in which subextraction from one constituent is combined
with full extraction of the other constituent. This is illustrated in (135):
	(135)	 a.	 Kakix	 nacij	 kto	 byl	 liderom? Russian
			 Which	 nations.gen	 who.nom	was	leader.inst
			 ‘Who was of which nations the leader?’
		 b.	 Kakoj	 strany	 kem	 byl	 prezident? Russian
			 Which	 countries.gen	 who.inst	was	president.nom
			 ‘Of which country the president was what?’
The sentence in (135a) parallels the sentence in (133a). The only difference be-
tween the two sentences is that in (135a) the subextracted wh-element precedes
the fully extracted wh-constituent, whereas the reverse is the case in (133a). The
same holds for (135b) which is analogous to (133b). This further underlines the
assumption that the SC is the result of direct Merger of the two DPs, as is pre-
dicted by the H-α schema.
The same can be observed in SCs that are complements of believe-type verbs,
with one little caveat that I will abstract away from here: Superiority effects remain
when the Instrumental DP is subextracted from. In these cases, however, the other
DP is not Nominative marked but Accusative marked instead, as is expected from
an ECM-type construction. Yet, as long as the Accusative marked constituent that
is extracted from remains inside the SC, superiority effects between the two wh-
constituents likewise do not occur. The relevant data is provided below.
	(136)	 a.	 Kogo	 kakix	 nacij	 ty	 dumaeš Russian
			 Whom.acc	which	 nations.gen	 you	think
			 ‘Who do you think they consider of which nations the leader?’
			 oni	 sčitajut	 liderom?
			 they	consider	 leader.inst
		 b.	 *Kakix nacij	 kogo	 ty	 dumaeš Russian
			 Which nations.gen	 whom.acc	you	think
			 oni	 sčitajut	 liderom?
			 they	 consider	 leader.inst
	(137)	 a.	 Kem	 kakoj strany	 ty	 dumaeš Russian
			 Who.inst	 which country.gen	 you	think
			 ‘What do you think they consider of which state the president’?
			 oni	 sčitajut	 prezidenta?
			 they	consider	 president.acc
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
		 b.	 Kkakoj	strany	 kem	 ty	 dumaeš Russian
			 Which	 country.gen	who.inst	you	think
			 ‘What do you think they consider of which state the president’?
			 oni	 sčitajut	 prezidenta?
			 they	consider	 president.acc
So the superiority effect that is observed when the Accusative-DP is wh-extracted
goes away when this is the constituent that is subextracted from. Again, similar to
the data from Czech, this can be seen as an indication that both bare-copular SCs
and SCs that are complements of believe-type constructions result from Merger of
two DPs, of which one must be a spelled-out Phase-head. Finally, the data in
(138) show that SCs that are complements of believe-type verbs behave exactly
like their bare copular counterparts when both DPs are extracted from: they are
ungrammatical:
	(138)	 a.	 *Kakoj strany	 kakix nacij	 ty	 dumaeš Russian
			 Which country.gen	 which nations.gen	you	think
			 oni	 sčitajut	 prezidenta	 liderom?
			 they	 consider	 president.acc	 leader.inst
		 b.	 *Kakix	 nacij	 kakoj	 strany	 ty	 dumaeš Russian
			 Which	 nations.gen	 which	 country.gen	you	think
			 oni	 sčitajut	 prezidenta	 liderom?
			 they	 consider	 president.acc	 leader.inst
Again this is fully expected under the H-α schema. There is no way in which sub-
extraction from both DPs should be possible, because this would require that both
DPs are merged with their complement domains still accessible. This, however, is
impossible under the H-α schema, where at least one DP must spell-out its domain
in order to be mergable via its EF.
So let us now turn to those aspects that prima facie are problematic for the
analysis presented here and see how these problems can be overcome.
4.6	 *Enter Phase67
As we have seen in the preceding sections, the H-α schema provides a means that
allows for deriving SC constructions strictly in line with the SMT. Additional con-
straints like the *{t, t} constraint were shown to be unnecessary complementations
67.	 Major parts of this section stem from further development of collaborative work with Tom
Roeper.
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
to the H-α schema and were therefore argued to be dispensable. What is indis-
pensable is the assumption that Phase-theory plays a crucial role in the derivation
of SC structures. In fact, it is the key assumption that is implied in the H-α schema
(i.e. that phrases which are reduced to Phase-heads upon Spell-Out) that drives
the account on SCs that is developed in this chapter. However, the H-α schema as
it stands does not suffice for explaining the truly puzzling data already presented
in the introductory chapter, which are to be discussed here. Let us start by compar-
ing the examples in (139a) and (139b):
	(139)	 a.	 He made the cake beautifully.
		 b.	 He made the cake beautiful.
Despite their apparent similarity, only the sentence in (139b) is a SC. (139a) is an
instantiation of a vP construction modified by an adverb instead (to which the
XP – XP Merger problem applies regardless of course). Evidence for this seem-
ingly bold assumption comes from the fact that in (139a) the DP the cake is a
direct argument of the verb that can be incorporated without any problems
(cf. also e.g. Roeper & Siegel 1978; van Hout & Roeper 1998; Harley 2009). This
is illustrated in (140):
	(140)	 He is a cake-maker.
All that is needed for the incorporation structure to be licit is that the verb that
is incorporated into and the N that is incorporated obey the First Sister Principle
and are immediately adjacent (cf. also the discussion in Chapter 3 for further
elaboration on the conditions of noun-incorporation). The same line of reason-
ing can be applied to adverb incorporation for structures like (139a). For the
adverb beautifully to incorporate into the vP the modifier must be immediately
adjoined to this constituent. This, arguably is the case in (141) where the adverb
is adjoined in a high position from where it incorporates immediately into
the verb:
	(141)	 This is a beautifully-made cake.
In both (140) and (141) it is the EF on the incorporated constituent that makes it
available for the IM operation that leads to the incorporated structure combined
with the conditions on incorporation that were discussed at length in Chapter 2
and that will not be reiterated here.
Now, let us return to the SC structure in (139b). Like the adverbial modifier in
(139a) both SC constituents can be extracted from their SC internal position to a
higher position:
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	(142)	 a.	 What/How did he make the cake what/how?	 Beautifully.
		 b.	 What did he make [SC the cake what]?	 Beautiful.
		 c.	 What did he make [SC what beautiful]?	 The cake.
The example in (142a) illustrates the wh-extraction of the vP modifier, the exam-
ples in (142b) and (142c) illustrate the wh-extraction of the SC subject and predi-
cate respectively. Notice, though, that extraction of the SC predicate is only possi-
ble in wh-contexts, i.e. the SC predicate, which is an AP has to be treated as a
wh-element for it to be able to move. This is because, as has been argued in the
preceding chapters, wh-extraction should only be possible, when the wh-extracted
constituent moves as a Phase-head with a spelled-out complement domain.68 This
is, of course, due to the fact that the EF on the wh-constituent would not be acces-
sible otherwise.
So, SCs of believe-type verbs, although they are in the complement domain of
the v-head and although each of the SC constituents is merged as a spelled-out
Phase-head in wh-contexts, do not constitute an island for subextraction.
However, the following observations are a bit disconcerting in this context.
We already know that incorporation of adverbs is not a problem (cf. (141)). We
also know that adverbs and SC constituents are both available for wh-extraction.
But why then is it impossible to incorporate any of the two SC constituents? Like
the adverb, the SC constituents are immediately adjacent to the verb, but the SC
seems to behave like an island under incorporation:
	
(143)	 a.	 This cake is beautifully made beautifully.	 adverb incorporation
		 b.	 *He beautiful-made [SC the cake beautiful]. SC predicate incorporation
		 c.	 *He cake-made [SC cake beautiful].	 SC subject incorporation
The same question emerges for the data in (144). As the examples illustrate it
is also impossible to incorporate any of the two SC constituents into a noun
(144a), into a nominal (144b) or into a passive (144c). Again this is totally
unexpected under the First Sister requirement and should fall out naturally as
an option under the H-α schema. At least, incorporating the SC subject should
be an option, because this is most likely merged as a Phase-head with a spelled-
out complement domain and should thus be remergable as an SO with an ac-
cessible EF:
68.	 To see in detail how IM in terms of wh-movement actually works under an account that
subscribes to the H-α schema cf. Narita (2011). In essence, it is not the wh-feature that perco-
lates and makes the wh-constituent an accessible Goal for a probing C-head. Rather it is the
Q-feature on a Q-head (cf. Cable 2010), which is a Phase-head, that is being probed. Thus, it is
the Q-head that moves as a Phase-head with a spelled-out complement domain along by now
familiar lines.
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
	(144)	 a.	 *He is a cake-maker [SC cake beautiful].
		 b.	 *The cake-making [SC cake beautiful]69
		 c.	 *The cake was beautiful made [SC the cake beautiful].70
Thus, the same pattern as above emerges. None of the two SC constituents can be
extracted and SCs seem to behave like islands. However, even in the passive con-
struction long-distance extraction from inside the SC is still possible:
	(145)	 The cake was made [SC the cake beautiful].
So again, regarding the question of whether SC subextraction is possible or not,
the answer that can be derived from the empirical data is that we are getting a
mixed message. Wh-extraction is fine, long-distance extraction in passive con-
structions is fine too, but incorporation into passives, nouns or verbal constituents
is blocked. And crucially, it is also blocked for those SC constituents which are
merged as Phase-heads with spelled-out complement domains, i.e. as LIs with EFs.
Finally, it is worth noticing that we can even put the adverbial modification struc-
ture and the SC constituents together and the result is still grammatical:
	(146)	 He made [SC the cake beautiful] beautifully.
Again, this can be explained in a straightforward way by the H-α schema. The
derivation of the SC is the same as usual and results from the merger of the DP
Phase-head and the AP that make up the SC subject and the SC predicate respec-
tively where the complement domain of the DP has been spelled-out. Then the v
69.	 Notice that this form is particularly interesting, because I have shown in Chapter 3 that it is,
in principle, possible to incorporate into a nominal and maintain e.g. aspectual modification:
	 (i)	 bus-driving into the city
	 (ii)	 grass-cutting for hours
	 (iii)	 ice-cream eating in the evening

The reason, of course, was that the -ing affix is attached in the verbal domain, before nominaliza-
tion but after incorporation. When -ings or some other higher nominalizing affix is attached
aspectual modification is out:
	 (i’)	 *bus-drivings/bus-driver into the city
	 (ii’)	 *grass-cuttings/grass-cutter for hours
	 (iii’)	*ice-cream-eatings/ice-cream-eater in the evening

Apparently, in the SC cases in (144a) and (144b), however, neither high nor low incorporation
is possible.
70.	 Notice that the passivization structure would also be a violation of *{t, t}. However, none of
the other illicit incorporation structures discussed here is. Thus, it is much more desirable to
account for all of these structures in the same way rather than ascribing (144b) to the *{t, t}
constraint and still having to account for the other examples differently.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
constituent is merged via the EF on v and finally the adverbial modifier is merged
presumably via the EF on the adverb.71
So what are the conclusions that can be drawn from these observations? First
it is clear that technical solutions like the First Sister Principle or immediate
dominance (cf. Roeper & Siegel 1978; van Hout & Roeper 1998; Harley 2009) can
account for some of the data but not for all. In particular in the context of SCs
these solutions are inappropriate because they do not explain why SCs behave like
islands in some contexts but not in others. On the other hand, the H-α schema,
which is completely unconstrained and which can account for the derivation of all
of the structures via EFs cannot provide an answer to the question why incorpora-
tion that involves extraction form the SC is not possible either.72
So, the solutions discussed so far can account for some of the data but they
leave other data unexplained and they are not conceptually natural. Extra-stipula-
tions like immediate dominance or the First Sister Principle are required to con-
strain the results from the H-α schema and make the analysis work even in some
cases. Hence, what we are looking for is a constraint that is natural and that can
account for all of the data discussed in this section. I would like to propose that
such a constraint is derivable from the SMT and its implications on Phase-theory.
In essence the SMT identifies Phases as a joint boundary on syntax, semantics and
phonology (cf. e.g. Chomsky 2001; 2004; 2008; Berwick & Chomsky 2011). If we
now argue that the SMT generates a derivational constraint that operates in com-
bination with the H-α schema, an explanation that accounts for the data discussed
here is possible. This constraint is *Enter Phase:
	(147)	 *Enter Phase
		 No movement from an internal position of a Phase into an internal posi-
tion of another Phase is allowed.
71.	 This is totally in line with the frequently made observation that adjuncts are Phases (cf. also
Narita 2011). As a Phase-head under the H-α schema they will always be accessible via their EF
and thus susceptible to Merge. Alternatively, it can be argued that the EF on the Phase-head v
provides the relevant input for the H-α schema once the v has spelled-out its complement do-
main. Both versions are easily conceivable and are regarded as equally suitable for the moment.
In the remainder, I will follow Narita’s (2011) conception that adjuncts are Phases, without fur-
ther motivating this, simply assuming that the alternative strategy is also available.
72.	 Just to be truly explicit here, notice that an antisymmetry based account along the lines of
Moro (2000) or a predication based account as the one in den Dikken (2006; 2007a;b) does not
fare any better here. If, following Moro (2000), IM were are sufficient criterion for PoS dissolu-
tion, incorporation should solve the problem perfectly fine. If predication were the relevant
criterion, at least incorporation inside the SC should occur as a standard means of dissolving the
problem.
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
This constraint is somewhat reminiscent of the PIC (cf. Chomsky 2001 vs. Chomsky
2004; 2008). However, it is superior to the PIC in so far as it fills a loophole that is
created by the application of the H-α schema. As mentioned before, there are two
versions of the PIC (cf. Richards 2007; Grewendorf & Kremers 2009; Gallego 2010).
The weaker version is the one that den Dikken’s (2007a;b) predication based analy-
sis of Phase extension seems to operate with. However, under the analysis in Chap-
ter 4.3 it has turned out that, at least under den Dikken’s own account, this is too
weak to be of any explanatory value. Under the H-α schema the stronger version of
the PIC seems to fall out automatically (cf. Narita 2011). However, nothing prevents
us from internally merging an LI with an EF, i.e. a Phase-head with a spelled-out
complement domain, by extracting it from inside a Phase-domain, say of vP, and
remerging it outside of the relevant Phase-domain,73 just as much as nothing would
prevent us from carrying out the same operation targeting the Phase-domain itself.
This is what makes *Enter Phase a much more precise constraint than the PIC and
it is enough to explain the incorporation data in (141) repeated below:
	(148)	 This is a beautifully-made cake.
The vP made the cake beautifully is a Phase (cf. among many others Fox & Pesetsky
2003; Chomsky 2004; Gallego 2010 etc.) and incorporation here takes place within
the same Phase. Thus, beautifully, which – by virtue of its status as an adjunct – is
a Phase-head that is susceptible to IM via its EF, can incorporate precisely because
it does not leave the vP cycle. Thus, incorporating the modifier here does not vio-
late *Enter Phase. 74
	(149)	
73.	 Thisisthestandardcaseofwh-movementthatproceedsviatheouterspecifierofvP,forinstance
(cf. e.g. Grewendorf & Kremers (2009) for execution of this type of IM). Be it wh-movement via
feature percolation of wh-features or via a Q-Phase-head. Both scenarios are compatible here.
74.	 The noun incorporation in (140), which is also repeated here, can be accounted for along
the same lines.
	 (i)	 He is a cake-maker.

According to the analysis of incorporation in gerunds, discussed in great detail in Chapter 3, the
noun in (i) incorporates into the verb and the N + V complex is then merged with a higher
nominalizing Phase-head that hosts the -er suffix. This is schematically illustrated below (for a
more fine-grained representation cf. the analysis in Chapter 3):
AdvP
VP DP beautifully
VP
VP
made the cake
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
In the examples where incorporation is blocked this is not the case. Here the SC
constituents and the verb into which one of the SC constituents incorporates are
in different cycles and this is what blocks the incorporation operation. So, merging
from one Phase into the next is not an option, not even when the First Sister Prin-
ciple, immediate dominance or other technical implementations are not violated.
And this is what is expressed in *Enter Phase.
	(150)	
So, what *Enter Phase does is that, on the basis of assumptions that are immedi-
ately derivable from the SMT, it restricts the output of the H-α schema in such a
way that the incorporation data discussed here receive a natural explanation. No-
tice that *Enter Phase does not restrict IM per se. It is still possible to displace a SO
across a Phase-boundary, which is what is expected. The only restriction that
*Enter Phase imposes is that IM target a position outside of the immediately
V
V
V
V
V
N
-er
N
N
N
V
cake
make cake
V
V N
V
N
make cake
make cake cake
→ →
b.
(ii) a.
c.
SC
V
made AP
DP
the cake beautiful
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
dominating Phase-head. Thus, the left periphery is still available for e.g. wh-ex-
traction of SC constituents (cf. also the data in (142)).
Corroborating evidence that this is on the right track comes from two sets of
data. The first comes from German where a resumptive do is needed, the second
are binding facts. Let us deal with each in turn and start with the German data:
	(151)	 a.	 Ted	hat	 [SC Vicki	laufen]	 gesehen. German
			 Ted	has	 Vicki	run.in	 see.perf.part
			 ‘Ted saw Vicki run’.
		 b.	 Wen	 hat	 Ted	laufen	 gesehen?	 Vicki German
			 Who	 has	 Ted	run.inf	 see.perf.part	Vicki.acc
			 ‘Who has Ted seen running?’
		 c.	 *Was	 hat	 Ted	Vicki	 gesehen? German
			 What	has	 Ted	Vicki	 see.perf.part
		 d.	 Was	 hat	 Ted	Vicki	 tun	 gesehen?	 Laufen German
			 What	 has	 Ted	Vicki	 do	 see.pref.part	Run.inf	
			 What has Ted seen Vicki do?
Again, wh-extraction provides a window into the internal structural make-up of
the SC. It is possible to wh-extract the SC subject without any complications, as the
example in (151b) illustrates. Extracting the SC predicate is not possible without
do-support though. The question is why this should be the case. Especially in light
of the fact that it is possible to extract other SC predicates without any problem.
Recall again the data already discussed above:
	(152)	 a.	 Ted	hat	 [SC Vicki	unglücklich]	 gemacht. German
			 Ted	has	 Vicki	unhappy	 made
			 ‘Ted has made Vicki unhappy’.
		 b.	 Wen	 hat	 Ted	unglücklich	 gemacht?	Vicki German
			 Who	 has	 Ted	unhappy	 made	 Vicki.acc
			 Who has Ted made unhappy?
		 c.	 Was	 hat	 Ted	Vicki	 gemacht?	Unglücklich German
			 What	 has	 Ted	Vicki	 made	 Unhappy
			 ‘What has Ted made Vicki?’
		 d.	 *Was	 hat	 Ted	Vicki	 tun	 gemacht? German
			 What	has	 Ted	Vicki	 do	 made	
As the examples show, the pattern for wh-extraction of the SC predicate is reversed
here, while the pattern for wh-extraction of the SC subject remains stable.
Notice that none of the approaches to SCs discussed in the preceding sections can
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
account for this subtle distinction. However, it falls out naturally from the analysis
presented here. Recall that a prerequisite for XP – XP Merger of the kind observed
in SCs is that the SC constituents are merged as spelled-out Phase-heads, because
otherwise their EFs were not accessible.
As has been argued in the preceding subchapter, for Merger to operate, it is
enough if one of the SOs that partake in the Merge operation is equipped with
an EF. However, for extraction to be possible, the SO to be extracted must be
accessible as an LI with an EF. This, however, should not be a problem for the
wh-­
constituent in (152). Additionally, the SC subjects in both (151) and (152)
are referential DPs which are most certainly merged as D-heads with a spelled-
out complement domain. So what we are looking at is the schematic structure
in (153):
	(153)	 a.	 Merger of DP and Merger of wh-P:
			
		 b.	 Transfer of the complement domain of DP and of wh-P:
				 DEF	 whEF
		 c.	 Merger of DP and wh-P by virtue of the EFs on Phase-heads D and
wh:
			
Now, when comparing this to the situation in (151) above, it is important to notice
that the LI laufen is definitely untensed. This is what makes it comply with the
definition of SC in (20) repeated here for convenience:
	 (20)	 A SC is a subject-predicate structure lacking tense.
However, as (among many others) Marantz (2007) argues it is only v that catego-
rizes a root as verbal and instantiates a Phase. Now, for a SC constituent to be wh-
extractable it must be a Phase-head. Recall from the discussion of Narita (2011)
above that all IM must proceed via a spelled-out Phase-head with EFs accessible.
This explains, why it is not possible to extract laufen. Since laufen is only a VP and
not a vP it can be merged to the SC subject via the EF on the spelled-out D-head.
However, the VP cannot be wh-extracted, because it is not a (spelled-out) Phase.
Vicki
SO
DEF
…
SO
whatEF
whEF
SC
DEF
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
This is what makes do-insertion mandatory. It is a last resort mechanism that
completes the root Phase and allows reconstruction after wh-extraction. 75
Now let us turn to the binding facts. If the analysis suggested above is
on the right track, we should expect that binding into the SC is restricted to
clearly definable circumstances. Consider the following sample sentence in
this context:
	(154)	 Jack showed Bobby himself:
It is claimed that the sentence above is ambiguous. The following data bring this
out even more clearly:
	(155)	 Vicki showed Teddy herself/himself.
So here both the subject of the matrix clause and the subject of the SC can bind the
reflexive pronoun. This binding relation is maintained even when the matrix clause
in (155) is embedded into another SC:
	(156)	 Bobby made Vicki show Teddy PRO herself/himself.
However, it is not possible to bind across more than one SC boundary, as the fol-
lowing examples demonstrate:
	(157)	 Vicki made Teddy wash PRO *herself/himself.
	(158)	 Bobby made Vicki make Teddy wash PRO *herself/himself.
Here it is only the SC subject of the embedded clause that can bind the reflexive
pronoun. This is what is expected and shows that small clauses behave totally reg-
ular under binding.
A natural extension of this approach can be applied to verb-particle construc-
tions and their nominalizations. Let us look at some of the data here:
75.	 Notice that the following data from English arguably corroborate this pattern:
	 (i)	 Ted made [SC Vicky happy].
	 (ii)	 Ted made [SC Vicky laugh].
	 (i’)	 What did Ted make Vicki?	 Happy
	 (ii’)	 What did Ted make Vicki do?	 Laugh

Wh-extraction of the adjective is fine and does not require do-support, however, wh-extracting
the untensed verb (or (verbal) root for that matter) requires do-insertion. This, of course, begs
the question of the status of the wh-word what which apparently can replace DPs – which are
Phases – and APs – which are Non-Phases without further ado, while replacement of V is only
possible with do-support. Notice though that in all three cases what itself maintains its status as
a Phase-head – otherwise, of course, wh-extraction in any of these cases would be impossible
under the H-α schema.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	
(159)	 a.	 Jack casts his brother out.
		 b.	 Jack casts out his brother.
		 c.	 *Jack outcasts his brother.
		 d.	 the outcast
		 e.	 *the castout76
In (159a) and (159b) the SC constituents, i.e. the particle and the DP object, can be
ordered freely. This is what is expected, because all that is needed is that the EF on
the SOs be accessible for Merge. Merge then is within the same cycle. When the
verb cast is merged via its own EF in the next step, this constitutes a new cycle,
because the verb is also a Phase-head. Therefore, following from *Enter Phase it is
not possible to incorporate the particle into the verb, as the ungrammaticality of
(159c) illustrates. In the grammatical example in (159d) in turn incorporation is
not into the verbal head, instead an additional nominal Phase-head is merged and
the particle can incorporate into this head from within the lower Phase-cycle. So
here the following structure emerges:
	(160)	 [out [NP [V cast]]]
So, completely in line with *Enter Phase here the particle incorporates into the
nominal structure and thus does not violate the Phase-boundary imposed by
the lower V (cf. also Roeper 1999 for arguments that go into a similar direction).
76.	 This is a fairly robust pattern:
	 (i)	 a.	 it comes out
		 b.	 the outcome
		 c.	 *it outcomes
	 (ii)	 a.	 it grows out
		 b.	 the outgrowth
		 c.	
*it outgrows (except with a special meaning, but cf. the outbreak – breakout cases in
(169))
	 (iii)	 a.	 he lifts up
		 b.	 the uplift
		 c.	 *he uplifts it
	 (iv)	 a.	 the disease broke out
		 b.	 the outbreak of the disease
		 c.	 *the disease outbroke

Potential counterexamples like the download, the overthrow, outly can all be dismissed, because
there are no verbal structures like:
	 (v)	 a.	 *he loads it down
		 b.	 *they throw government over
		 c.	 *this area is lying out
 (Cf. also Roeper 1999 for a conclusive analysis of these forms).
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
In the again ungrammatical (159e) incorporation is blocked, because here it
would target the lower V instead of the higher N-Phase, but only at a stage at
which the derivation has already reached the N-cycle – hence the ungrammati-
cality of this example.
One remaining question is how existing double forms, which are exemplified
in (161) fit into the pattern:
	(161)	 a.	 the breakout
		 b.	 the outbreak
The derivation for (161b) follows the same principles as the derivation in (160),
which has been discussed above. This means that the particle is incorporated into
the higher nominal structure and not into the lower V – strictly in line with *Enter
Phase. So the particle is displaced into the higher nominal cycle and not into the
immediately dominating verbal cycle.
The puzzling case is the one in (161a). Here the whole verb-particle complex
is nominalized and no incorporation takes place. Thus, the structures that emerge
for the two forms in (161) are illustrated in (162):
	(162)	 a.	 the [NP [VP breakout]]
		 b.	 the [out [NP [V break]]]
So, in the absence of IM operations in (162a), no violation of *Enter Phase is ex-
pected, which is why this form is grammatical. In fact, it is worth noticing the
distinction in meaning between the forms. This strongly suggests that the deriva-
tional history is not the same for the two forms and the derivational constraint
discussed here provides a natural way of implementing this.77
Hence, *Enter Phase proves as a natural concept for explaining certain in-
corporation operations that are otherwise motivated by some stipulated mech-
anisms, which cannot account for the full pattern. And for natural concepts it
is not unexpected to find sister concepts. One such concept indeed exists: Vacate
Phase. Roeper (in preparation) argues that Vacate Phase, which is the mirror
image of *Enter Phase is obligatory in the derivation of open, non presupposi-
tional questions. Questions like these are standardly generated by subject-­
auxiliary inversion.
77.	 Notice again that the forms below do not provide counter-examples:
	 (i)	 take out, strike out, lock out, knock out, ...

These forms differ from the breakout example in so far as the verbal forms listed above can all
take direct DP objects, this is not possible for breakout though:
	 (ii)	 a.	 he breaks out from/of jail
	 (ii)	 b.	 *he breaks out jail
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	(163)	 a.	 He can play ball.
		 b.	 Can he can play ball?
The crucial question in this context is what triggers the movement of can in (163b).
According to standard assumptions (cf. e.g. Chomsky 2008; Grewendorf &
Kremers 2009) T is not a Phase-head sui generis. But it can behave like a Phase-
head under feature inheritance from C. Now, if feature inheritance were sufficient
why then is movement necessary in (163b)?
Roeper (in preparation) argues that Vacate Phase provides a natural answer in
this context. Assuming that the tense information on the T-head is linked to a
proposition (cf. Hinzen 2007), moving the T-head out of the Phase prior to Trans-
fer then means that a proposition is never generated. This is exactly what is at play
in (163b). Moving the auxiliary out of the inherited T-Phase head (cf. Branigan
2005; Fox & Pesetsky 2005) prevents the generation of a proposition and thus leads
to a non-propositional question interpretation.
Finally, Roeper (in preparation) provides the following example as further in-
dication that this is on the right track:
	(164)	 He can play ball, can’t he?
The first part of the sentence is equivalent to the example in (171a) and is most
certainly derived in the same fashion. Thus, here a proposition is generated when
the T-head which is a Phase-head qua feature inheritance from C is spelled-out.
The question tag, which is probably attached in a later cycle, presumably by Late(r)-
Merge (cf. e.g. Lebaux 1988; Boeckx 2008a), cancels the proposition established in
an earlier cycle. So in this case here, a proposition is established due to the absence
of Phase-vacating subject-auxiliary inversion (as in (163b)), and the role of the
question tag is simply to negate or confirm this proposition.
4.7	 Conclusion
In this chapter another domain in which Merge allegedly creates a PoS is subjected
to closer scrutiny. This is the domain of SCs. Here two approaches that are based
on PF- and LF-considerations respectively have been investigated.
One is the approach outlined in Moro (2000; 2009) which is based on consid-
erations of dynamic antisymmetry. Here a distinction is made between copular
(or bare) SCs and SCs which are complements of believe-type verbs. The former
are analyzed as the product of Merger of two XPs that results in a point of sym-
metry (PoS) (cf. also Pereltsvaig (2001) for a similar analysis). This PoS is a prob-
lem for the LCA (cf. Kayne 1994), since it prevents linearization at PF and thus has
	 Chapter 4.  Small clauses (and Verb-particle constructions)	 
the potential of stalling the derivation. This problem is overcome in Moro (2000)
by remerging one of the SC constituents in a higher specifier position, thus guar-
anteeing LCA compliance.
The alternative approach pursed e.g. in den Dikken (2006; 2007a;b) is that of
analyzing SCs as predication structures. The predication relation is mediated by a
functional head, termed Relator, to which the SC constituents are merged as sub-
ject and predicate. Under this analysis no PoS ensues. In den Dikken (2007a;b)
the analysis is developed further and predications, i.e. RPs, which are SCs, are
identified as inherent Phases. In order to be able to account for predicate inversion
structures and for equative SCs den Dikken argues that these Phases can be ex-
tended by moving the Relator head to a higher functional head F, thus allowing
either the subject or the object to displace to a higher specifier position as well.
Certain extraction properties automatically follow.
Den Dikken’s (2006; 2007a;b) analysis is broader in its empirical coverage, be-
cause it applies to bare SCs and to SCs that are complements of believe-type verbs.
For the latter Moro (2000) assumes an asymmetric structure as well, but remains
silent on the specifics of the functional head that introduces the asymmetry, and
on the question why an analysis along these lines does not carry over to bare SCs.
However, despite its wider range, the predication analysis of den Dikken is not
without problems either. Among those problems are the still unclear role of head-
movement in Phase extension, the identification of Phases as predication relations,
the syntactic definition of predication, the role of the Relator head and the mean-
ingless (cf. den Dikken 2007a) functional head F it moves to etc.
Thus, two radically different analyses of SCs that take heed of PF (i.e. LCA-
related) or LF (i.e. predication-related) properties of SCs respectively but other-
wise face a number of ancillary problems are available. What these two analyses
have in common, despite their radically different interface orientation, is that they
both amount to reverse-engineering the SMT.
By relating SCs to the H-α schema (cf. Narita 2009; 2011) the analysis pre-
sented here offers a novel account that avoids the problems outlined above.
According to the H-α schema Merge requires at least one of the two elements par-
ticipating in the operation to be equipped with an EF. Since EFs never delete, but
also do not percolate, they are operative on LIs introduced into the derivation
from the lexicon by EM or on Phase-heads, whose complement domain is spelled-
out. The latter results from the fact that upon Spell-Out not only the complement
of a Phase-head but also the syntactic relations established with regard to it are
discharged (cf. Narita 2011). This renders specifier-less Phase-heads into LIs with
an active EF and has the effect of rendering XP – XP structures illicit. A somewhat
different line of reasoning brings Kayne (2010) to the same conclusion, but does so
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
at the cost of reintegrating precedence information into narrow syntax and is
therefore a deviation from the SMT.
The application of the H-α schema to SCs made it immediately obvious that
cases of XP – XP Merger that lead to a PoS never ensue. Nor is a SC an instantia-
tion of a Relator phrase of dubious status. Instead both SC constituents are merged
as Phase-heads with spelled-out complement domains. This Merge configuration
makes it impossible to incorporate any of the SC constituents into the Phase-head
of the higher cycle, while long-distance extraction of these constituents and sub-
extraction patterns remain a natural option. The former is shown to be a natural
fall-out of a derivational constraint that follows from from the SMT. This con-
straint is *Enter Phase, which has a sister constraint in Vacate Phase (cf. Roeper in
preparation).
Thus, the approach pursued here provides a narrow syntactic analysis of SCs
that is in line with the SMT and that can account for displacement facts without
making recourse to PF or LF demands.
chapter 5
Theoretical implications
In the preceding three chapters three empirical domains have been investigated:
nominal root compounds, nominal gerunds and small clauses. Standardly in the
derivation of structures in each of these domains a PoS is identified. This PoS, it is
equally standardly argued, needs to be dissolved for the derivation to continue.
The classic conundrum here is whether this PoS dissolution is a phonological or a
syntactic matter. In chapters two, three and four it has been shown that there is a
correlation between PoS dissolution and label-identification. In each case, it has
been shown that a PoS arising in the derivation is dissolved as soon as pieces of
previously derived structure are sent to the interfaces for Spell-Out and Interpreta-
tion. In this sense, PoS dissolution has been shown to be a narrow syntactic phe-
nomenon that is regulated by interface requirements imposed by the SMT.
The SMT, in turn, as has been argued in the introductory chapter, is the stron-
gest possible guideline for any explorations into the inner workings of the human
faculty of language in the narrow sense, or syntax for short. As such, the SMT is a
defining part of, if not the one essential ingredient to, the core assumptions of the
research agenda laid out in the Minimalist Program and its further development
(cf. comments in Chapter 1 and also in Boeckx 2006). So, the fundamental
assumption of the SMT – that syntax is an optimal solution to interface require-
ments – here is the tertium comperationis against which the analyses in the previ-
ous chapters have been cast. This chapter now looks at the question of what
theoretical implications follow from these analyses for the advancement of mini-
malist theorizing. Of course, aiming to be comprehensive and/or concise in this
context is a bold and hopeless venture. However, at various points the theoretical
turns that have been taken in this dissertation have a direct relation to some of the
hot button issues that are under continued discussion in the linguistic literature.
This has not always been made very explicit in the preceding chapters, mainly
because it would have been a distraction from the line of reasoning pursued. How-
ever, in this chapter some of these implications shall be brought to the front. The
aim here is not to deliver a full-fledged account on all and one theoretical ques-
tions, but rather to tie the insights that can be derived from the fine-grained
analytical steps taken here into the broader perspective of contributing to theo-
retical advancements.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
In this context three aspects will be of primary relevance. First, the question of
what the analysis presented here reveals about the identification of (the properties
of) Phases will be addressed. Second, implications for the question of whether
head-movement should play a role in narrow syntax will be reviewed and finally,
the status of φ-features will be looked at. Let us start by looking at the role of head-
movement first, since the existence of head-movement within narrow syntax is
one of the prerequisites for the take on Phases that has been discussed here. For
instance, it is essential for a Phase extension analysis in the sense of den Dikken
(2007a;b) and the non-existence of head-movement would seriously undermine
this analysis. In a second step we will focus on Phases themselves and φ-features,
which are traditionally taken as an indicator for Phase-heads, will be scrutinized
last. In this context questions on what the relevant φ-features are and the interplay
between φ-features, Phases and Merge, which has already been commented on in
Chapter 1, will be dealt with.
5.1	 Head-movement in narrow syntax
The debate on whether head-movement is an operation that takes place in narrow
syntax or after Spell-Out at the sensorimotor interface has a long-standing tradi-
tion in the linguistic literature. To recapitulate all sides of the argument is defi-
nitely beyond the scope and intention of this chapter, and before I look at the two
most prominent trends, let me point out that the approach to head-movement that
is taken here differs considerably from both of these trends. Head-movement,
which is identified as a syntactic operation here, is shown to be the only type of
movement operation that is available in narrow syntax. Only elements with EFs,
i.e. LIs, are susceptible to movement at all. Depending on the structural configura-
tion the candidates for head-movement are found in, this movement operation
leads to incorporation, i.e. when the conditions for syntactic head-incorporation
described in Roberts (2010) (cf. also the discussion in Chapter 2) are met. Alter-
natively, the movement operation leads to displacement of a Phase-head with a
spelled-out complement domain. This is what makes the latter a case of successive
cyclic head-movement (SCHM), which does not occur in the incorporation struc-
tures, because this would amount to either vacuous movement or to a violation of
the extension condition (cf. below for details).
However, let me start by looking at the two broad trends that are discernible in
the literature for the treatment of head-movement. Both have in common that
they deny the existence of head-movement as is within narrow syntax. Instead,
following Chomsky (1995a; 2000 et passim) they either identify it as a PF phenom-
enon (cf. e.g. Koopman & Szablosci 2000; Boeckx & Stjepanović 2001; Parrot 2001;
	 Chapter 5.  Theoretical implications	 
Harley 2004; Schorlemmer & Temmerman 2011) or they identify it as a case of
remnant movement (cf. e.g. Koopman & Szabolsci 2000; Nilsen 2003; Müller
2004). In-between positions that are taken here can also be distinguished into two
types. On the one hand it is argued that head-movement is neither an operation
that takes place at PF nor in narrow syntax. Instead it is relegated to the morpho-
logical component (cf. e.g. Parrot 2001; Matushansky 2006 for suggestions along
these lines). Alternatively, it is argued that head-movement can be found in nar-
row syntax and at PF (cf. Schorlemmer & Temmerman 2011 and (to some extent)
Roberts (2010)).
Before going into the details of which of these approaches are a priori (in)
compatible with the account pursued in the preceding chapters, some brief
comments on the identification of heads may be in order. As Matushansky (2006:
69–70) remarks, the answer to whether head-movement is a PF or a syntactic phe-
nomenon may very well hinge on the definition of head. This is particularly relevant
when there is a distinction to be made between simple and derived heads.
The BPS perspective taken in the present approach automatically rules out the
standard definition of heads prevalent in the P&P framework, according to which
a head is identifiable by the property of being a terminal node (cf. Chomsky
e.g. 1981; 1986). Matushansky (2006: 69) discusses the merits of identifying heads
as feature bundles and/or LIs that are inserted from the lexicon. As Matushansky
points out, while applicable to a number of cases, this definition is problematic for
all kinds of derived heads, which are “syntactically atomic [but] internally com-
plex” (2006: 69). For these latter cases, Matushansky (2006) argues that these
heads are built in the morphological component by M-Merger, and thus enter
syntax as an atomic unit. So, in her account all movement is motivated by a com-
bination of the operations Search F, which is a cover term for a number of opera-
tions (e.g. Agree or C-Select), and Merge. The latter operation is retained as the
most basic and cost-free operation applicable within narrow syntax operating on
SOs and is thus close to Chomsky’s (e.g. 2008) characterization of the operation.
Search F, in contrast, operates on features, as is expected from any Agree or C-
selection operation, and thus possibly targets units smaller than those that Merge
operates on.
Hence, under this view, whenever Search F identifies an item, say a feature,
that cannot undergo Merge, standard assumptions on pied-piping require that the
smallest item containing the targeted feature is moved (cf. Matushansky 2006 for
details). Now, whenever such a movement configuration applies and leads to the
result that two heads are immediately adjacent, M-Merger applies and bundles the
two heads together, returning them to syntax as just one item (cf. ibid: 97).
Matushansky goes to quite some length to show that M-Merger is an indepen-
dently motivated operation the application of which is unrelated to the operation of
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Search F (cf. ibid: 86–94). However, the status of a morphological operation within
syntax raises some questions on the interaction between morphology and syntax.
If M-Merger is a morphological operation that is applicable only under
narrowly defined circumstances that are dictated by the syntactic configuration
(i.e. two adjacent heads),1 this suggests that the operation is a post-syntactic
operation.2 However, if the output of M-Merger is an item that is morphologi-
cally complex but that is syntactically opaque, i.e. a derived head that feeds into
further syntactic computation, this suggests that the output of a post-syntactic
process can feed into syntactic computation. This is rather unusual and leaves at
least the question open of how a post-syntactic process can interact with narrow
syntax. In a sense then, M-Merger aligns DM conceptions of ‘syntax all the way
down’ (cf. e.g. Halle & Marantz (1993) Harley & Noyer 1999) with more stan-
dard syntactic approaches in the line of Chomsky, but it does so at the cost of
reintroducing a basic distinction between the elements that syntax and mor-
phology operate on, thus perpetrating the idea that syntax and morphology op-
erate on the very same elements.
To be precise, this problem is not only inherent to Matushansky’s account, but
is already prevalent in earlier approaches that rely on M-Merger, such as, e.g. Halle
& Marantz 1993 (cf. also Julien 2002: 87–90 for some critical reflections). By as-
suming that M-Merger involves movement of a head to a specifier-position of a
higher head, which is then followed by head-adjunction, Matushansky (2006) gets
around the problem of headless structures that is inherent to the analysis in Halle
& Marantz (1993). To see this, let us compare the structures for both:
1.	 It is important to notice here that it is irrelevant how this configuration came about;
i.e. whether IM (which Matushansky 2006 terms Remerge or Move) or EM leads to this configu-
ration. Additionally to being adjacent, Matushansky assumes that the two heads stand in a sort-
of specifier-head relation from where the element in specifier position then incorporates onto
the element in the head position (cf. also Roberts 2010: 43–44). In this respect Matushansky’s
analysis differs from earlier characterizations of M-Merger, as laid out e.g. in Halle & Marantz
(1993) where M-Merger applies between two heads in a head-complement relation rather than
a specifier-head relation. However, the question, in how far this is a relevant distinction in
current theories where the complement vs. specifier distinction is non-existent, remains (but
cf. comments below).
2.	 Zwart (2001) provides a rather detailed outline on how morphology could function as an
“interface” (cf. ibid: 59) between syntax and phonology. According to his view, morphology
operates on syntactic terminals and renders strings of phonemes as output. Crucially, this does
not mean though, that the output of morphology can feed back into syntax. Thus, this is to be
clearly dissociated from the view taken in Matushansky (2006) where bi-directional interaction
between syntax and morphology seems to be the norm.
	 Chapter 5.  Theoretical implications	 
	 (1)	 Head-movement as M-Merger Matushansky (2006: 81):
		
XP
YP
X0
[uF]
Yʹ
ZP
WP
Y0
[iF]
a.
XP
Xʹ
Y0
i
YP
X0
Yʹ
ZP
WP
ti
b.
XP
YP
X0
Yʹ
ZP
WP
ti
X0
Y0
i
c.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	 (2)	 Head-movement as M-Merger:
		
		 [adapted from Halle & Marantz 1993: 134–135]
So in (2), following the head-movement constraint of Travis (1984), the Y-head
moves to the Z-head, which is the head of the complement of Y. This leaves the YP
headless and thus incompatible with any syntactic analysis that subscribes to en-
docentricity. In fact, it is somewhat reminiscent of standard analyses of lowering
and all the well-known problems that come along with them (cf. also Julien 2002:
88). This problem is avoided in (1) where the Y-head first moves to the specifier of
X and then adjoins to the lower X-head from there.3 This has the effects that
the movement operation as such is feature-driven, initiated by Search F, and that
3.	 This is not in line with the head-movement constraint though. For one it is not movement
from a complement head to the selecting head position. Nor is it movement from one head
position to another at all. This is somewhat surprising, since Matushansky (2006) is very careful
in the description and identification of heads (cf. also discussion below).
XP
YP
X0
Yʹ
WP
ZP
Y0
UP
Z0
a.
XP
YP
X0
Yʹ
ZP
WP
UP
Z
Y
Z
b.
	 Chapter 5.  Theoretical implications	 
head-movement is characterized as adjunction thus avoiding all the problems of
exocentric structures. Yet, as pointed out above already, if the operation in (1c) is
conceived of as a morphological operation, it is not clear how it interacts with
syntax and it is to be noted that in the original account of M-Merger in Halle &
Marantz the operation is likewise characterized as morphological on the one hand
(cf. ibid: 115) and as syntactic on the other (cf. ibid: 114).
Furthermore, it is worth noticing, that what Matushansky describes as M-
Merger in (1c) is what Roberts (2005; 2010) describes as incorporation. This is
particularly astonishing in light of the fact that Matushansky (2006: 70; footnote 1)
explicitly argues that incorporation is to be dissociated from head-movement. The
former being much more complex and much less understood than the latter.
Thus, Matushansky’s (2006) analysis, although it meticulously distinguishes
between simple and derived heads, is incompatible with the analysis taken in the
present study. This is an immediate consequence of the fact, that the definition of
head in Matushansky (2006) is distinct from and incompatible with the definition
of head here. Although it is not possible to identify heads as terminal strings in a
syntactic tree, it is still possible to unambiguously identify heads in a syntactic
phrase marker. As the discussion in Chapters 2 and 4, in particular, has shown, all
LIs qualify as heads. The characteristic feature of LIs discussed in both of these
chapters is that these are SOs bearing EFs. Hence, it can be argued that EFs do not
only signal mergability, they also signal head-status.
This definition of head is somewhat deviant from standard definitions of head
though. In fact, headedness so defined is a relative notion. For one, all elements in
the lexicon4 are identified as heads. This comports well with Matushansky’s (2006)
characterization of simple heads.
Derived heads come in two slightly distinct flavors here. For one, the discussion
in Chapters 2 and 3 has shown that derived heads can be the result of a syntactic
incorporation operation along the lines outlined in Roberts (2010). According to
the analysis of clitic incorporation discussed in Roberts (2010) three conditions
have to be met for syntactic incorporation to be possible. For one, the incorporating
element must be a minimal category. This, as has been shown in Chapter 2, can be
linked in a straightforward way to the presence of EFs when following Chomsky
(2008), Narita (2011) and others. Provided further that the incorporation constraint
4.	 Here it is important to notice that this holds independently of the exact conception of the
lexicon. As has been discussed in Chapter 2 roots as well as all other lexical items must be
equipped with such a feature. Thus, regardless of whether the lexicon is perceived of as split into
various components or whether a lexicon-internal split between ‘lexical’ and ‘functional’ vo-
cabulary items or some other imaginable variant is given preference, it should hold that all the
items listed must be equipped with EFs (but cf. de Belder 2011; van Craenenbroeck & de Belder
2011 for an alternative view that we will discuss shortly in later sections of this chapter.)
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
holds and that the incorporating element is a defective Goal, where defectiveness is
defined in relative terms, incorporation can take place. This incorporation opera-
tion, as Roberts (2010) notes, is an entirely syntactic operation that makes M-Merg-
er in terms of Matushanksy (2006) and similar accounts dispensable.
Notably, this syntactically motivated incorporation operation has the same ef-
fect that Matushansky (2006) ascribes to M-Merger: the resulting SO is one with EFs
that behaves like an unanalyzed unit for further syntactic operations thus obscuring
the internal complexity of the derived LI. Notice, however, that this happens only
after the constituents that form the new SO have been sent to Spell-Out and thus
have been interpreted at the C-I and the S-M interfaces. In this latter respect the
analysis here is highly reminiscent of Chomsky’s (2000 et passim) claim that head-
movement lacks semantic effects. However, as Matushansky (2006: 98) correctly
points out, this is only apparent, because even Chomsky (2001) reintroduces a paral-
lel between movement operations that are assigned to the PF-component and their
LF-counterparts. This is done in the context of V-to-T-to-C movement and N-to-D
movement, which Chomsky (2001: 38) describes as PF movement, precisely because
of its lack of semantic effects. On the other hand, Chomsky (ibid) also argues for the
formation of LF-‘supercategories’, likewise formed after Spell-Out and in a fashion
completely parallel to their PF-counterparts but totally independent of them.
Thus, quite generally, relegating head-movement to PF on the basis of an ap-
parent lack of semantic effects is based on a much more shaky foundation than one
is lead to expect from the frequent use of this line of argumentation in the linguis-
tic literature.5 And it is diametrically opposed to the cases of head-movement that
are discussed in Chapter 2. There head-movement is analyzed as syntactic incor-
poration and semantic effects indeed occur. To see this more clearly, recall that
head incorporation can only apply under the condition that the incorporating ele-
ment is a minimal category (cf. Roberts 2010). This is achieved by spelling-out the
complement domain of the categorizing n-heads. This is illustrated in (3) also
Chapter 2:6
5.	 Notable exceptions here are Boeckx & Stjepanovic (2001) who provide some empirical
arguments in favor of head-movement as PF-movement and more recently also Schorlemmer
& Temmerman (2011). However, as Matushansky (2006) remarks the lack of semantic effects
is not unexpected (cf. also Roberts 2010) and neither Boeckx & Stjepanovic (2001) nor
Schorlemmer & Temmerman (2011) can make the claim of their argument strong enough so
that head-movement falls out as an operation that is exclusively associated with PF. On the con-
trary, Schorlemmer & Temmerman (2011) explicitly conclude that ‘certain instances’ (ibid: 7) of
head-movement are located at PF, while others ‘take place in the narrow syntax’ (ibid).
6.	 Keep in mind that x° and xP are just notational expedients carried over from earlier frame-
works. Neither the xP status is genuine in a BPS account nor is the x° status equivalent to head,
the definition of which, after all, is at the center of the discussion here.
	 Chapter 5.  Theoretical implications	 
	 (3)	
Just like all other Phase-heads, the n-heads discharge their complement domains
at Spell-Out and are accessible to the derivation then as LIs with EFs. Incorpora-
tion then only results when two of these LIs are combined by Merge and when the
subsequent operations of feature-checking and Agree identify the resulting con-
figuration as one in which the conditions on defective Goals and the Inclusiveness
Condition apply. In Chapter 2 it is already discussed that this analysis is very sim-
ilar to the incorporation analysis of Harley (2009) and some important differences
have already been highlighted. We can now note further that the two analyses dif-
fer slightly, but significantly with respect to their compatibility with the extension
condition (cf. Chomsky (1995a et passim)). This is particularly interesting, when
taking into account that this is another point of criticism that is leveraged against
syntactic approaches to head-movement. To see this, let us compare the structure
in (3) to the structure provided in Harley (2009):
	 (4)	
		 [adapted from Harley 2009: 17]
nP
nP
n0
√β
n0
n0
√β
√α
n0
√β
n0
n0
√β n0
√α
n0
nP
nP
√P
n0
nP
√α
√β
α n0
√α
n0
n0
√β
n0
√
∅
α
∅
β
β ∅
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
While the n-head incorporates into the root only after Merger of n with √α and the
projection of √P and similarly √α incorporates to the higher n only after Merger of
the higher n with √α and projection of nP, this is clearly not the case in (3). Here
incorporation takes place immediately upon Merger provided that the configura-
tion required qua incorporation constraint and the definition of defective Goals as
in Roberts (2010) holds. In that sense the account of Harley (2009) is more in line
with the analysis in Matushansky (2006) where extension is at the root only before
the application of M-Merger. In the analysis in (3) instead, the incorporation op-
eration itself is operative at the root.
It is interesting to note though, that the analysis in (3) and the analysis in
Harley (2009) additionally obey the head-movement constraint of Travis (1984),
whereas this is not so clear for the approach in Matushansky (2006).7
The remaining question then is, why the SO in (3) behaves as a unit for further
steps of the derivation. Put differently, the issue that has not been fully resolved yet
is why excorporation, which would open the possibility for SCHM, does not oc-
cur. What seems undisputable is that the SO in (3) is, in fact, opaque in all subse-
quent steps of the derivation, yet it is not exactly clear what brings this about. On
the contrary, given that the two elements that partake in the incorporation opera-
tion are both Phase-heads, i.e. LIs with EFs, targeting one of these LIs for excorpo-
ration should be an option that is available naturally. In order to understand why
this option is not available regardless, it is important to keep in mind that incorpo-
ration operates on these two LIs automatically, provided the syntactic configura-
tion makes this possible. Thus, the constituent parts of the SO do not occur in the
remainder of the derivation other than as Phase-heads with spelled-out comple-
ment domains.
An alternative explanation can be derived when considering the options for
excorporation in (3). Two scenarios are conceivable here. Under the first either
one of the two n-heads is extracted and remerged with the root node in (3). Let us
here look at both options in turn. Abstracting away from the question what might
trigger such an operation in the first place, simply assume that the n° that is the
Phase-head – with √β in its spelled-out complement domain – excorporates. This
Phase-head can only be remerged at the root. This, however, will trigger incorpo-
ration, because n° will still be a defective Goal and subject to the incorporation
constraint. Thus, such a move is truly vacuous and can be excluded on the basis of
computational economy. The other alternative is that the n° that is the Phase-head
with √α in its spelled-out complement domain excorporates. Again, leaving the
non-trival question of what would trigger such an operation aside, basically the
7.	 Although it is not so clear what this amounts to and whether the head movement constraint
should play any role in BPS.
	 Chapter 5.  Theoretical implications	 
same reasoning as above applies. So, we can safely exclude this option also by sim-
ply adhering to computational economy, which a priori excludes all types of vacu-
ous movement. Under the alternative scenario either one of the two n°s in (3) is
extracted and remerged in a position lower than the root node. This, however, will
violate the extension condition and can therefore be excluded as well. Thus, there
is virtually no configuration under which excorporation does not return either a
vacuous movement step or one violating the extension condition. This is then the
reason why head-movement in terms of incorporation does not allow for excorpo-
ration and successive cyclic movement.8
So, apart from the simple heads that are taken from the lexicon (or Numera-
tion) and which enter the derivation as heads qua their EFs, there is a second type
of head. These are derived heads in the sense of Matushansky (2006) that have the
property of behaving like Phases (cf. ibid: 95), i.e. unanalyzed chunks, in subsequent
steps of the derivation. This is related to the syntactic incorporation operation that
applies to these heads and can be found in abundance on the structures discussed in
Chapters 2 and 3.9 In Chapter 4 another type of derived head can be identified.
It basically is a Phase-head with a spelled-out complement domain (cf. Narita
2011). Under this view, even those categories that are genuinely perceived as
phrasal function as heads in the syntactic derivation. So, for instance, a (specifier-
less)10 DP with a spelled-out Phase-complement is nothing but a D in the remain-
der of the derivation and as such it is an LI with an EF available for further Merge.
In this respect, this type of derived head is not distinct from the derived heads in
Chapter 2 and 3.
A clear difference between the derived heads discussed in Chapter 4 and those
in the preceding two chapters is that the derived head in Chapter 4 is not subject
to incorporation. Thus, here these heads do not function as defective Goals and
the incorporation constraint does not apply to them. This is, however, totally
8.	 As has been pointed out above, potential triggers for excorporation have been left out of the
picture. From the conclusion reached it should be clear that no such trigger should be available.
The only trigger conceivable would be a feature that is targeted by some higher Probe. This fea-
ture can however be only one that is accessible on the root nP in (3) as well, otherwise incorpo-
ration would never have occurred in the first place.
9.	 One important fact to note here is, of course, that the incorporation operation is operative
in recursive cases of nominal root compounding, which is traditionally described as a morpho-
logical operation, thus is virtually indistinguishable from the syntactic incorporation operation
that is operative in nominal gerunds.
10.	 That this works only for specifier-less categories is nothing that needs extra stipulation. It
simply falls out from the definition of Merge that requires at least one of the Merge partners to
be an LI with EFs (cf. comments in Chapter 4 for some comments and in Narita (2011: 47ff) for
detailed discussion).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
unproblematic, due to the fact that incorporation applies only optionally in the
sense that it is only applicable when the syntactic configuration is such that the
two conditions on incorporation formulated in Roberts (2010) are met (cf. also
the discussion in Chapter 2 for details). If they are not met, this does not auto-
matically lead to a crash, it simply means that the Phase-head with its spelled-out
complement domain also functions in the remainder of the derivation as an unan-
alyzed chunk. This is what is expected from a Phase-instantiating head. Now, if
this head is merged with another piece of structure and does not happen to meet
the requirements of the incorporation constraint or of being a defective Goal, the
output of this Merger will simply be a SO without EFs. In traditional terms this
can be described as some kind of bar-level or XP category: a non-minimal catego-
ry in any event.11
Now, in more general terms, this poses an interesting puzzle. If, say D is
such a Phase-head, which as has been shown in Chapter 4 is a reasonable idea to
maintain, then this Phase-head, provided that it does not incorporate, because
it does not meet the structural requirements for the operation to apply, should
be available for extraction and Remerger, i.e. movement. As long as this move-
ment is movement that extends the root, nothing should prevent it. This is, in
essence, what is at the core of the analysis in Narita (2011) and it is schemati-
cally sketched in (5) below for a simple case of DP12-movement from (Spec,) vP
to (Spec,) TP:
11.	 In the system that is designed here this is simply a SO without EFs (cf. e.g. the examples in
(5) and (6) and the discussion of DP – DP Merger in Chapter 4).
12.	 Narita (2011) actually sketches this as an instance of K/P (CaseP) movement rather than
D/P-movement, concomitantly identifying K rather than D as the relevant Phase-head. One
reason for identifying K rather than D as the (highest) Phase-head in the nominal domain is that
pied-piping in possessor constructions can be analyzed only under this view (cf. ibid: 52–53).
Though convincing for the case of possessors, this does not automatically lead to the conclusion
that D heads are Non-Phase-heads. Alternative scenarios are easily imaginable. So, for instance,
either D or K could be analyzed as Phase-heads. This is probably somewhat undesirable, because
it creates an unwanted indeterminacy in the identification of Phase-heads. There are, however,
approaches that seem to argue in the direction of an increasing number of phasal heads in pro-
portion to an increasing amount of structure building (cf. e.g. Boeckx 2008b; Richards 2010).
Another way to go about it is to simply assume that both D and K function as relevant Phase-
heads. This may turn out to be problematic with respect to a stacking of Phase-heads, on the
other hand, it seems to resonate well with the distinction between structural, inherent and lexi-
cal case marking – with only the former requiring dedicated heads. Yet another solution could
be to argue that D and K are actually instances of the same head, possibly with different values
for φ- or Case-features. And eventually, it is also conceivable that the DPs in Chapter 4 should
actually be reanalyzed as KPs.
	 Whichever path may turn out to be the right one to pursue in these matters, should, how-
ever, be inconsequential for the analysis sketched here. All that matters is that the moving
	 Chapter 5.  Theoretical implications	 
	 (5)	  [adapted from Narita 2011: 45–52]
For a DP to be merged in the specifier13 of vP in (5), either the DP or vP itself must
be merged as an LI, since direct Merger of DP and vP constitutes a violation of the
ban on XP-XP Merger, which is straightforwardly derived from the requirement
that Merge operates on SOs with EFs (cf. Chomsky 2008; Narita 2011; as well as
the discussion in Chapter 4). This can be achieved by assuming that either D or v
(or both for that matter) are merged as Phase-heads (cf. also Narita 2011: 48–50).
This is schematically shown in (6):
	 (6)	
		 [adapted from Narita 2011: 48]
Thus, in effect, it is sufficient to subject either DP or vP in (6) to Spell-Out with
subsequent Transfer of the complement domain, but, in principle, nothing pre-
vents Spell-Out of both Phase-heads. In fact, this latter option is the route taken in
Narita (2011).14 Thus Merger here amounts to what is shown in (7) (cf. ibid):
element moves as a Phase-head with a spelled-out complement domain and that it remerges at
the root, thus complying with the H-α schema of Narita (2011) and the Extension Condition of
Chomsky (1995a). Given the still somewhat underdetermined status of DPs as Phases (cf. e.g.
Matushansky 2006 and numerous others), I will simply make use of the C-D analogy and as-
sume D to be the relevant Phase-head for the moment.
13.	 This is of course only a contrivance term, since, as is well-known that under a BPS analysis
‘complement’ and ‘specifier’ are notions devoid of content.
14.	 In order to make this work, Narita (2011) assumes that v can assign a theta-role to D/P
before as well as after Spell-Out of the complement domain of v. This seems somewhat ad hoc
and begs the question of what this implies for unaccusative structures. However, an answer to
these questions is orthogonal to the current discussion and will therefore be ignored. All that
matters is that it is in principle possible to merge both SOs as Phase-heads with spelled-out
complement domains.
nP
TEF
DEF
vEF
…
DEF
DP
DEF
NP
NEF
…
VP
VEF
…
vP
vEF
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	 (7)	
Now, in order to move D from Spec, vP to Spec, TP in (5), all that is needed is that
the EF on D, which is accessible anyway, due to the fact that EFs never delete and
never obstruct the derivation from proceeding (cf. Chomsky 2008), be targeted.
Thus, in this sense EM of D in Spec, vP and IM of D in Spec of TP amounts to the
very same thing in line with assumptions in Chomsky (2004; 2007; 2008; 2013)
that any distinction between EM and IM is stipulative (cf. also Narita 2011: 49). So,
it is this same reasoning that has been applied to the SC structures in Chapter 4,
where e.g. the two DPs in a SC like the one in (8) are merged as Ds with spelled-out
complement domains as well (cf. (9) repeated from (98) in Chapter 4):
	 (8)	 Jack is the president
	 (9)	
In fact the IM operation that dislocates one of the two SC constituents (Jack in this
case) again operates on the basis of the very same EF that is relevant for EM of the
two SC DPs in the first place. Thus, displacement in (8) directly parallels the dis-
placement operation described in (5) above:
	 (10)	
Thus, the picture that emerges here is that two types of heads need to be distin-
guished. One is a simple head, i.e. an LI that is taken from the lexicon. The other is a
derived head, i.e. a Phase-head with a spelled-out complement domain (cf. (6) above
for illustration). Importantly, both heads are characterized by their EFs and it is
precisely these EFs that make both types of head susceptible for head-movement.
When viewed in this light, all movement operations turn out to be head-
movement. Provided that Merge, IM and EM alike, can only operate when at
least one of the items to be merged is an LI with an EF (cf. Narita 2011 and
DEF
vEF
D1EF
D2EF
SC
D1EF
D1EF
D2EF
TEF
SC
	 Chapter 5.  Theoretical implications	 
discussion in Chapter 4), there is simply no other option than head-movement.
Thus, the question whether head-movement is an operation that takes place
within narrow syntax or whether it is a post Spell-Out operation at PF receives
a totally different answer than the one that is standardly assumed in the litera-
ture. As has been discussed above, the two types of head-movement that fall-
out from the analysis are either incorporation, or movement of a spelled-out
Phase-head. Both are shown to be narrow syntactic operations with clear effects
on interpretation.
Furthermore, the question of why there is no successive cyclic head-move-
ment (SCHM) receives a new answer that differs from standard accounts in ways
predictable by the implications of the theoretical assumptions discussed here. In
incorporation structures SCHM does not occur, i.e. incorporated heads do not
excorporate and the derivation treats the resulting SO as an unanalyzed unit. Ex-
corporation is blocked, because it either amounts to vacuous movement and thus
constitutes a violation of derivational economy, or it violates the extension condi-
tion (cf. Chomsky 1995a and subsequent literature). In those structural configura-
tions where incorporation does not take place (presumably because either the
incorporation constraint does not hold or there is no defective Goal), head-move-
ment is still an option. The only requirement then is that a Phase-head spells-out
its complement domain. As an immediate consequence of the Transfer operation,
the Phase-head is accessible for Merge via its EF. Thus, all standard accounts of
phrasal instances of successive cyclic movement here actually amount to cases of
SCHM of a Phase-head.
It is important to notice though that the fact that SCHM does indeed exist and
is a truly narrow syntactic operation does not automatically entail that head-
movement at PF is not an option at all. As e.g. Boeckx & Stjepanovic (2001) and
Schorlemmer & Temmerman (2011) point out, some of the numerous instances
that have been analyzed as head-movement may very well be cases of PF-move-
ment. In fact, even the most standard cases of v-to-T movement might fall under
this heading so long as they are not cases of incorporation. Alternatively, classic
v-to-T movement could also be analyzed as Agree with either no movement tak-
ing place or with movement depending on the order of the operations of Match
and Agree (cf. e.g. Gallego 2010; Herbeck forthcoming). However, the exact tech-
nicalities of such an analysis are beyond the scope of this chapter and will be left to
further research. Suffice it to say here, that, if it should turn out that v-to-T move-
ment is a case of syntactic head-movement, it is expected that this is regulated by
the identification of the relevant Phase-heads. So, strictly speaking, it is expected
that the frequently observed differences between v-to-T movement in say Ro-
mance languages vs. English is related to the identification of different Phase-heads
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
in these languages (cf. e.g. Gallego 2010) for analyses that provide some evidence
that this is on the right track.15
Now, before turning to the already prevalent question on the role and identifi-
cation of Phases in the present account, let us briefly consider the alternative route
that is taken for the analysis of head-movement structures. That is, those cases
where head-movement is analyzed as remnant movement (cf. e.g. Koopman &
Szabolsci 2000; Nilsen 2003; Müller 2004). Prima facie remnant movement seems
to be incompatible with the analysis pursued here, because all remnant movement
qua definition is an instance of phrasal movement and as such incompatible with
the H-α schema of Narita (2011). Recall, however, that the H-α schema, also pro-
vides a solution for standard cases of XP movement, in terms of analyzing them as
instances of movement of a Phase-head with a spelled-out complement domain.
This should, in principle, also be applicable to cases of remnant movement, which
thus emerges as a natural possibility in the BPS approach that is pursued here
(cf. also Narita 2011: 57).
	 Let us take a look at a classical example from Holmberg (1999):
	 (11)	 a.	 Kysst	 har	 jag	henne	 inte. Swedish
			 Kissed	have	 I	 her	 not
			 ‘I have not kissed her.’
		 b.	 Sett	 har	 jag	honom	inte Swedish
			 Seen	 have	 I	 hom	 nor
			 ‘I haven’t seen him’.
The sentences in (11a/b) are analyzed as in (12a/b) respectively:
	 (12)	 a.	 [VPKysst henne] har jag henne inte kysst henne.
		 b.	 [VPSett honom] har jag honom inte sett honom.
More specificially, it is argued that the object pronoun moves from the comple-
ment position of the DP over negation and only after that the remnant VP moves
15.	 It is, of course, still an open question whether this type of movement is indeed head-move-
ment and even if this question can be answered unequivocally with a yes, it is still not clear
whether this type of head-movement is phonological or syntactic. One clear difference between
the type of head-movement analyzed in the preceding sections of the present chapter and head-
movement of the v to T movement type is that the former is movement that extends at the root
and creates a new syntactic position, whereas the latter is not to the root and is characterized by
replacement. So, it may well turn out that this is the defining characteristic that distinguishes
both types of movement operations and in consequence it possibly may also be relevant for
distinctions among the grammatical components that the movement operation is allocated to.
As has been pointed out above already, however, these are only very speculative remarks that
necessitate further systematic investigation.
	 Chapter 5.  Theoretical implications	 
to Spec, CP. Now, both movement operations are instances of phrasal movement,
however, the movement of the object pronoun can easily be accounted for as head-
movement in compliance with the H-α schema, simply by assuming that the pro-
noun is moved as a DP-Phase-head. The same holds for the English examples in
(13) quoted from Narita (2011: 57):
	 (13)	 a.	 How likely to win is John?
		 b.	 Fired by the company John indeed was.
The relevant structures are provided in (14):
	 (14)	 a.	 How likely John to win is John how likely John to win.
		 b.	 Fired John by the company John indeed was fired John by the com-
pany.
Again, in (14a) and (14b) movement of John from inside the VP to a higher posi-
tion outside VP, (arguably Spec, vP in (14a) and Spec, TP in (14b)) can easily be
accounted for when analyzing John as a spelled-out D-head with the relevant Phase
properties. The remaining question is what happens in the second movement step
in the structures in (12) and (14). Moving any of the VPs to Spec, CP (or whatever
else the exact label for the landing position may be) is clearly an instance of phras-
al movement and as such incompatible with the H-α schema, unless the VP is
analyzed as a V Phase-head with a spelled-out complement domain.
As the analysis presented here stands, V is clearly not a Phase-head (cf. in
particular the analysis in Chapter 3). However, it is still possible that C is merged
as a Phase-head with a spelled-out complement domain akin to the options for
merging vP and its specifier represented in (6). The relevant part is schematically
presented in (15) for the structures in (12) and (14):
	 (15)	 a.	 Spell-Out of the complement domain of Phase-head C:
			
		 b.	 Merger of Phase-head C with VP:
			
Although, again the exact technicalities of this IM operation are unclear, it
should at least be evident by now that remnant movement and the SCHM-ap-
proach to head-movement discussed here are not necessarily mutually exclusive.
CEF
TEF
…
CP
VP CEF
CP
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
However, as Narita (2011: 57) correctly points out, further constraints on rem-
nant movement that have been addressed elsewhere in the literature (e.g. Müller
1996; Takano 2000; Abels 2007; 2009) may further restrain the possibilities of
this type of movement operation. Going into the details of these constraints is
yet again beyond the realm of the analysis pursued here and this is why it is left
for future investigation at this point. In the next section we will now turn to the
question of what the role of Phases are in a BPS approach that makes use of the
H-α schema.
5.2	 Phases
As is immediately evident from the discussion on head-movement in the preced-
ing subchapter, as well as from the analysis of the three empirical domains, dis-
cussed in Chapters 2–4 of this study, Phase-theory plays a prevalent and important
role. Despite the relatively recent explicit16 advancements of Phase-theory, it is
again well beyond the scope of the current chapter, to lay out the details of the
development of Phase-theory (but cf. e.g. Gallego 2010 for a comprehensive and
accessible overview). Instead, once again, the main aim of this section is to posi-
tion the stand that is taken on Phase-theory and on Phases in Chapters 2–4 in the
broader perspective of current discussions in the literature. Or differently put, the
goal is to clarify the implications that can be derived from the view on Phases that
is taken here and to relate it to the broader picture of Phase-theory in minimalist
theorizing.
When acknowledging the recent writings of Chomsky (2000; 2001; 2004; 2005;
2007; 2008) as the driving proponent of Phase-theory, still two broad trends are
discernible within these writings on how Phases should be described and ulti-
mately identified. Eventually, both of these two approaches relate the existence of
Phases to requirements of computational economy, however, the properties on the
basis of which Phases are identified could hardly be more distinct. According to
what I would like to refer to as the ‘early’ view on Phases (cf. Chomsky 2000; 2001;
2004; 2005), Phases are instantiated by prechunked lexical arrays. Thus, quite gen-
erally speaking, each derivation is built from a preselected lexical array and once
all LIs from the lexical array have been used up, the derivation is exhausted. So for
16.	 This is indeed the crucial point here. Ideas such as computational economy, underlying
Phase-theory, have already been at the center of very early writings of Chomsky (1955; 1964;
etc.). This is also (part of) the reason why Phase-theory is sometimes criticized as a mere refor-
mulation of old ideas on barriers and islands and as such also ridden with the problems of these
earlier analyses (cf. e.g. Boeckx & Grohmann 2007 for arguments along these lines).
	 Chapter 5.  Theoretical implications	 
the standard case, the lexical array for the sentence in (17) consists of (at least)17
the items in (16):
	 (16)	 Lexical Array: {C1, T1, v*1, love1, Ted1, Vicki1}
	 (17)	 Ted loves Vicki.
This approach, it was quickly noted, caused a conceptional problem in the deriva-
tion of sentences like the one in (18) (cf. e.g. Chomsky 2000: 106; Grewendorf &
Kremers 2009: 386; Richards 2010: 76):
	 (18)	 There is a chance [that proofs will be discovered].
This structure, so it was argued, should not be derivable from a lexical array that
contains (at least)18 the following elements:
	 (19)	 Lexical array: {C1, T1, a1, be1, chance1, discovered1, is1, proofs1, that1,	
there1, will1}
Provided that Merge takes precedence over Move,19 the question that immediately
emerges is why proofs moves in the embedded structure in (18), when, according
to (19) Merge of the expletive should be an option:
	 (20)	 proofs will be discovered
A similar case in point can be made for the following structure:
	 (21)	 Which article is there hope [that someone will read]?
Again, it would be assumed that Merger of the expletive should preempt move-
ment of the internal argument in (21). In fact, this is what seems to happen in the
example in (22):
	 (22)	 *There is likely [a proof to be discovered].
17.	 I will abstract away from the question whether Ted and Vicki are elements of category n,
headed by a phonological empty D or whether they are instances of category D themselves.
Either view should be compatible with the analysis presented here. The same holds for the ques-
tion of whether additional categories, e.g. those relevant for Topic/Focus and/or those for aspec-
tual projection(s) should be included in the lexical array or not. Again, neither alternative should
have an impact on the overall analysis.
18.	 Again, I will abstract away from the details of the exact categorial make-up of the lexical
array. In particular I will refrain from taking a stand on whether the two instances of v in (19)
are instances of v* or vdef in Chomsky’s terms. The literature that elaborates on this question is
rich and abundant and it is therefore impossible to even try to due justice to it here.
19.	 This is, of course, an assumption that is open to empirical challenge. Yet, I will abstract away
form this challenge for the moment, since it is the purpose of the present discussion to recon-
struct the reasons for the introduction of Phases rather than to reflect on the validity of an a
priori distinction between EM and IM.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
The difference between (18)/(21), on the one hand, and (22), on the other, as is
argued in Chomsky (2000; 2001 and subsequent literature), can be explained when
assuming that the lexical array is prechunked in such a way that only dedicated
chunks are available to the derivation at any given point. Hence, for the example in
(18) the lexical array can (at least)20 be split into the following two subarrays:
	 (23)	 a.	 Subarray 1: {be1, discovered1, proofs1, that1, will1}
		 b.	 Subarray 2: {C1, T1, a1, chance1, is1, there1}
In step one of the derivation now only the subarray in (23a) is available and only
in step 2 of the derivation the subarray in (23b) becomes accessible. Thus, the
question of why Merger of the expletive does not preempt movement does not
arise, simply because the expletive is not available at the stage of the derivation in
which movement occurs. Arguably, in (22) the situation is different, because here
the lexical array is not chunked into any smaller parts (cf. among others Chomsky
2000: 106–107; Richards 2010: 76). Thus, the ungrammaticality of the structure
results from the movement of the internal argument. This is out, because the ex-
pletive is accessible within the same array.21
So, what falls out from this is one empirical argument developed in Chomsky
(2000, 2001) under which prechunked lexical arrays are viewed as Phases. Two
things are important to note here. One is that Phases so defined are a means of
regulating lexicon – syntax interaction (cf. e.g. Boeckx 2008b; Gallego 2010: 40–41).
The other is that as is this approach to Phases is rather stipulative and does not
provide any answer to the question of where the relevant cut off points for prec-
hunked lexical arrays are, i.e. where the Numeration is split into smaller subarrays.
20.	 Note that (23a) and (23b) are provided here only for illustrative purposes. Smaller chunks
are easily conceivable, again depending on whether a distinction between v* and vdef is war-
ranted and on whether DPs (and if so whether all DPs) constitute Phases.
21.	 Actually, things here turn out to be a bit more problematic than they appear at first sight.
Although the Merge over Move requirement provides some indication that this explanation is
on the right track, the difference between the following two examples casts some serious doubt
on the validity of the overall analysis:
	 (i)	 There is likely to be a proof discovered.
	 (ii)	 *There is likely to be discovered a proof.

The data in (i)/(ii) is problematic in at least two respects. First of all, it is not clear why from an
identical lexical array two partially parallel derivations are possible. Notice that the ungram-
maticality of (22) emerges only after IM of the internal argument in Spec, T, not after the inter-
mediate step in (i). Secondly, it is not so clear why the Merge over Move requirement does not
preempt the movement step in (i) as well, nor why this movement operation is indeed manda-
tory, as the ungrammaticality of (ii) illustrates. This at least suggests that Merge over Move is not
sufficient – begging the obvious question of why it should be necessary (cf. also Boeckx &
Grohmann 2007 and references therein for some criticism on Merge over Move).
	 Chapter 5.  Theoretical implications	 
Chomsky (2000; 2001) argues that the relevant cut off points are C and v*. Concep-
tual arguments that Chomsky adduces in favor of this view are that Phases trigger
certain effects at the interfaces. At the PHON-interface the decisive characteristic is
isolability, whereas at the SEM-interface it is propositionality. So, the argument can
be summarized as follows. It is only at v* and C that isolability arises e.g. in the form
of clefting or VP movement. For this argument to go through, Chomsky (2000) ar-
gues that only parts of the Phase are actually spelled-out. This is formalized in what
came to be known as the stronger version of the PIC also referred to as PIC1 by
virtue of it being Chomsky’s (2000: 108) first attempt to formulate this condition:
	 (24)	 Strong PIC/PIC1:
		 In a Phase α with head H, the domain [i.e. the complement of H (LSB)] of
H is not accessible to operations outside of α; only H and its edge [i.e.
specifier(s) (LSB)] are accessible to such operations.
Thus, provided that v* is the relevant Phase-head, then the domain of v*, i.e. VP, is
inaccessible to any operation that takes place outside of α. This guarantees the
PHON-isolability of VP.
At SEM, it is theta-role assignment, which again falls within the realm of v*,
and the establishment of force, which in matrix contexts correlates with C, that
Chomsky refers to.
However, it was quickly noted that the approach sketched here and laid out in
detail in Chomsky (2000; 2001 and 2004) suffered from some inconsistencies. The
problems here are basically twofold. One problematic aspect is tied to the concep-
tion of Phases as described above. Although, Phases can be identified at the SEM-
and PHON-interfaces, it is important to notice that identification is not uniform
for both interfaces. This is because SEM identifies e.g. v* as a Phase, by virtue of
this being the place where theta-role assignment is complete. Now, this means ei-
ther that at the SEM-interface the specifier of v* belongs to the v*-Phase, simply
because this is the place where the theta-role for the external argument is assigned
or, as Gallego (2010) discusses, it means that theta-role assignment and thus
Merger of the external argument is in the domain of v*.22 At the PHON-interface
22.	 In either case a number of questions ensue. For the standard case, at least the following are
among these: If the specifier is part of the Phase, then why is it not transferred? In fact, why is
only the complement transferred? If the external argument is initially merged below the Phase-
head, then why does it move to Spec, v* at all? And what is the exact position it is merged in in
the first place? Additional questions are: why is v, e.g. unaccusative v considered a weak Phase
then? And why does not unaccusative v in particular simply transfer its domain which is com-
plete in the sense that all theta-roles are assigned. I will refrain from going into the details of
these questions, which have been discussed in numerous places in the literature and will con-
tinue outlining the general concept instead.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
the situation is the complete reverse. Here it is the isolability of VP, i.e. the domain
of v*, to the exclusion of the edge, consisting of the v*-head and its specifiers, that
indicates Phasehood. This then means that the criteria for identifying what be-
longs to a v*-Phase differ significantly between the PHON- and SEM-interfaces.
And the problems do not stop just there. For C, for instance it is force that Chom-
sky mentions as the relevant criterion at SEM. However, force, or alternatively
truth-value assignment (cf. also Hinzen 2007) is only a property of matrix C –
where notoriously it is not only the domain of the Phase that is transferred at both
interfaces. Instead here the root-node, i.e. the node including the Phase-head and
any potential specifiers, is transferred at both PHON and SEM. This means that
PHON then transfers only the complement domain of the Phase in all cases but
the one in which we are looking at matrix C. So, among others, it is problems like
these which lead Boeckx & Grohmann (2007) to the conclusion that the postula-
tion of v* and C as the relevant Phase-heads in Chomsky (2000; 2001; 2004) is
stipulative and non-explanatory.23
The second problematic aspect of this conception of Phases is that it is not
clear what exactly happens (and when!) at the Phase-cycle. In Chomsky (2001) it
is argued that at the Phase-cycle all material that is uninterpretable at any of the
two interfaces is deleted. Of course, material that is uninterpretable at the inter-
faces, such as, e.g. unvalued φ-features, is deleted once the φ-features have been
valued (cf. ibid for details). The crucial question then is, when exactly this Valua-
tion takes place. Originally, Chomsky (2001; 2004) argued that Valuation takes
place before Spell-Out, with Spell-Out eventually leading to Transfer and Dele-
tion. Yet, again this causes the conceptual problem that upon Transfer all φ-features
are valued and the derivation thus cannot determine the material relevant for dele-
tion, unless some mechanism that allows the derivation to look back is built in,
which is a clearly undesirable result (cf. Epstein & Seely 2002 for a very elaborate
version of this criticism).
Aware of the criticism, Chomsky proposed two ramifications to the theory of
Phases, which at an abstract level can be related to the same source (i.e. the spe-
cial role of T/Non-Phase heads). To see this more clearly, let us look at each one
in turn. The first one came relatively early. Data from Icelandic and European
Portuguese clearly show that the PIC in its strong form is untenable (cf. Gallego
2010: 43):
23.	 It is almost needless to say that Boeckx & Grohmann (2007) are neither the only ones nor
the first voicing this kind of criticism. Matushansky (2005) has already shown that the criteria
adduced for determining what counts as a Phase-head lead to inconclusive results for D, which
behaves like a Phase at PHON but not (necessarily) at SEM.
	 Chapter 5.  Theoretical implications	 
	 (25)	 Henni	 leiddust	 strákarnir/	 þeir.	 Icelandic
		 her.dat	bored.3.pl	the boys.nom	they.nom
		 The boys/They bore the girl.
	 (26)	 Ontem	 compraram-se	 demasiadas	salicha. Portuguese
		 yesterday	bought.3.pl.se	too-many	 sausages
		 ‘Yesterday too many sausages were bought’.
Arguably, in both examples T must establish a relation with an element that is in
the domain of v*. This is, however, impossible under PIC1, because the element that
T seeks to establish a relation with is already spelled-out and as such inert for the
remainder of the derivation. So, already in Chomsky (2001) the original version of
the PIC is weakened to what is known as the weaker version of the PIC or PIC2:
	 (27)	 Weak PIC/PIC2:
		 The domain of the Phase-head H is not accessible at the next highest
(strong) Phase ZP; only H and its edge are accessible to such operations.
This now allows T to establish a relation with material inside the complement do-
main of v*. However, it comes at the price of significantly weakening the PIC or
dealing with two versions of it, which are virtually irreconcilable (cf. Richards
2010). PIC1 is conceptually more natural, and PIC2 is empirically warranted.
The second ramification took a while longer but it eventually relates to the
same thing. Richards (2010) points out that the crucial difference between the two
versions of the PIC relates to the search space for T. It is in this respect that it is
impossible, to operate with both versions, because PIC1 and PIC2 make radically
different predictions with respect to the question of what T can search into (i.e. up
to v* under PIC1 (cf. (24)) and all the way down into V (and its complements)
under PIC2 (cf. (27)). So, when it is noted elsewhere (cf. e.g. Epstein & Seely 2002:
70–72) that the original conception under which Valuation takes place before
Transfer is problematic, because it makes it virtually impossible for the interface
systems to distinguish between valued and unvalued features – at least not with-
out looking back – then Chomsky (2007; 2008) argues that this is avoided by
assuming that Valuation and Transfer do not happen consecutively but simultane-
ously. This solves the when-question, however, it leaves open the where-question,
i.e. the question at which stage of the derivation Spell-Out happens. The relevant
Phase-heads are C and v(*). Feature Valuation and Transfer is, however, not a
property of C and v but rather of T and V (cf. Chomsky 2004; 2007; 2008; Gallego
2010 and many many others). So, in this sense T (and V for that matter) is once
again special. Chomsky (2007; 2008) accounts for this special status by assuming
a mechanism of feature inheritance. This is schematically illustrated as in (28)
(cf. Gallego 2010: 45):
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	 (28)	 Feature-Inheritance:
		 with H a φ-feature introducing Phase-head
		 [α [Hφ β]] → [α [H βφ]]
Now, it is not my intention to go into the details of what motivates feature inheri-
tance (but cf. e.g. Richards 2007) nor into the problems related to this mechanism
(cf. e.g. Grewendorf & Kremers 2009 for valid criticism and a solution to some of
the major issues) right here. Rather I will continue pointing out the broader impli-
cations of the conceptual change that necessitated a mechanism like feature
inheritance.
As Gallego (2010) notes, the conception of Phases that emerges from the
analyses in Chomsky (2007; 2008) is radically different from the earlier concep-
tions in Chomsky (2000; 2001), in so far as the identification of lexical arrays as
relevant indicators of Phases has taken a backseat to φ-features as the relevant
indicators. In Chomsky (2007; 2008) uninterpretable φ-features are the defining
characteristic of Phase-heads. This, Gallego (2010) points out, is not just a matter
of terminology. In fact, arguing that uninterpretable morphology is the sole indi-
cation of Phasehood has a number of implications. In fact, Gallego (2010: 57)
considers these implications so strong that he advances the following Phase Con-
dition (cf. ibid):
	 (29)	 Phase Condition:
		 Uninterpretable Features (uFF) signal Phase boundaries.
According to Gallego (ibid: 50ff.) this radically changes the way in which Phases
are conceived. They are no longer ridden with the problems that come from a con-
ception of Phases as interface based, because the status of Phases qua (29) is dis-
sociated from interface conditions. In fact, Gallego (2010), following the ideas
underlying Chomsky (2007; 2008), argues that the properties that have originally
been identified as interface-driven properties turn out to be narrow syntactic
properties with certain interface effects. It is in this sense that a definition of Phas-
es that is based on the presence or absence of uninterpretable φ-features, as in (29),
can be considered as interface-free. This conception correlates with what can per-
haps best be described as the ‘later’ view on Phases.
As Richards (2010: 75) points out, the conception of Phases that focuses on
uFF has the additional effect of strengthening the role of Phase-heads. In essence,
the identification of Phase-heads follows naturally from the uFF conception, be-
cause here Phase-heads are the only elements that bear uFF and thus they are also
the only elements that introduce uFF into the derivation. Richards (2010: ibid)
argues further that under SMT considerations the Phase-head/uFF based defini-
tion of Phases prima facie seems far less stipulative, especially so, since Phase-
edges fall out as a natural consequence rather than as a matter of explicit definition
	 Chapter 5.  Theoretical implications	 
in terms of the PIC. However, this does not lead him to endorse the uFF/head-
based approach to Phases. Instead, he suggests a reformulation of the PIC in such
terms that the two virtually irreconcilable versions of it can be unified. This, how-
ever, comes with a caveat. The unification rests upon the conception of Phases as
being determined by lexical subarrays (cf. ibid: 81):
	 (30)	 PICLA (Unified Phase Impenetrability Condition relativized to lexical sub-
arrays):
		 Given structure [ZP Z [XP X [HP α [H YP]]]], with H and Z belonging to
separate L[excial]A[rray]s:
		 The domain of H is not accessible to operations outside LAH; only H and
its edge α are accessible to such operations
			 with LAH = the lexical subarray defined by head H
			 with either X ∈ LAH
			 or X ∉ LAH
So, in effect Richards (2010) argues that it is possible to unify the two versions of
the PIC along the lines of (30), but only if Phases are understood in terms of lexical
arrays rather than in terms of LIs with uFF. The ‘either’ variant then corresponds
to PIC1 and the ‘or’ option gives us PIC2.
What is interesting about this conception of Phases is that it goes back to the
earlier approaches to the identification of Phases as in Chomsky (2000; 2001). Yet,
as Richards (2010) argues, the PICLA can (and indeed should!) be seen as indepen-
dent of earlier characteristics of Phases, such as isolability at PHON or proposi-
tionality at SEM. Instead, Phases in Richards (2010) are defined over the pairwise
composition of lexical arrays in which each lexical array consists of a Phase-head
and a Non-Phase-head (cf. ibid for details). To see this more clearly, let us briefly
digress and consider the argumentation in Richards (2010) in a bit more detail
here. So, provided that the clausal spine is composed of the core functional catego-
ries V-v-T-C,24 the PICLA allows for two options of how the lexical arrays that
constitute Phases can be composed. Both options comply with the criterion of
pairwise composition of Phases as is illustrated in (31):
24.	 This assumption is, of course, far from uncontroversial. However, for the sake of the argu-
ment to be made here, I will refrain from discussing the overall validity of this claim. Interest-
ingly, a lexical array based definition of Phases that relies on pairwise composition is probably
in a much better position to cope with intermediate ‘Phase-heads’ than the uFF-based approach.
All that is needed in the lexical array account is that there is a balance of Phase-heads and Non-
Phase-heads for each lexical array. So, in a sense Richards (2010) conception comports well with
the approach in Boeckx (2008b) where the amount of Phase(-head)s increases with the amount
of structure.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
	 (31)	 either:	 {C, T}, {v, V}	 →	 {phase-nonphase}	 →	 PIC1
		 or:	 {..., C}, {T, v}, {V, ...}	 →	 {nonphase-phase}	 →	 PIC2
		 [adapted from Richards 2010: 82]
What (31) illustrates is that under the version of the PIC in (30) there is no a prio-
ri reason for preferring one version of the PIC over the other. Both are equally
conceptually natural now and it all depends on what the relevant ‘pairs’ for the
pairwise composition of a Phase are. As argued in Richards (2010) the relevant
difference amounts to whether T forms a lexical array with C or with v.
Regardless of what the answer to this puzzle might be, Richrads (2010) follow-
ing the argumentation in Richards (2007) further points out that the question of
the role of the feature inheritance operation needs to be factored in here. Based on
the conception of Phases as designated heads with uFF (cf. Chomsky 2008) the
question that immediately emerges is why φ-features are interpreted on T (and V
for that matter) and not on C (and v).
Chomsky (2008) provides a number of arguments in favor of feature inheri-
tance. Among these are that the A vs. A’ distinction can be derived from it (cf. ibid:
15) with all A’-movements being movements that are to the edge of the Phase-
head, i.e. the head that introduces the uFF into the derivation, and all A-move-
ments being movements to a head that is not a Phase-head and thus has inherited
its φ-features from the Phase-head it is dominated by. Furthermore the parallel
probing of C and T (and by extension also of v and V) can be explained this way,
thus eventually providing a question on the timing of Valuation and Transfer of
uFF, as this can now happen simultaneously (cf. ibid). And eventually support for
feature inheritance can be derived from the observation that defective T, as in rais-
ing constructions and ECM infinitivals, does not only lack C, but also φ-features.
This is a logical consequence, when φ-features on T are universally perceived as
being inherited from C.
However, none of these points is accepted without criticism (cf. e.g.
Grewendorf & Kremers 2009 for extensive comments on the latter two points and
Richards 2007 for criticism on the former). In particular, Richards (2007) argues
that feature inheritance, as explored in Chomsky (2008), does not necessarily fol-
low from any of the arguments mentioned above. This is elaborated further in
Richards (2010), where it is pointed out that the A- vs. A’-distinction is already
encoded in the types of features on the relevant heads, with EPP-features yielding
A’ and Agree-features yielding A (cf. ibid: 89–90). In principle, it should also be
possible to have the Agree-feature on C and project multiple specifiers for C. Ad-
ditionally, feature inheritance from v to V does not follow from inheritance from
C to T under the A- vs. A’-distinction, simply because this distinction does not
apply at the v/V level.
	 Chapter 5.  Theoretical implications	 
Richards (2007) suggests a more principled reason for feature inheritance that
follows from the PIC paired with the Principle of Full Interpretation. The PIC en-
tails the existence of an edge25 from which the following premise can be derived:
	 (32)	 The edge and the domain of a phase are transferred separately.
		 [adapted from Richards 2010: 90]
On the other hand, the Principle of Full Interpretation requires that Valuation and
Transfer of uninterpretable features must happen immediately, because after the
application of Agree the distinction between valued interpretable and uninterpre-
table features is lost and it is thus impossible for the derivation to distinguish be-
tween them. This leads Richards (ibid) to the following premise:
	 (33)	 Value and Transfer of uF[F] must happen together.
However, these two premises are antithetic. On the one hand the edge of a Phase
must remain active for further computation qua (32), on the other hand the Phase-
head which introduces uFF and belongs to the edge must still be transferred as
soon as possible qua (33). This, as Richards (2007; 2010) argues, can be resolved by
feature inheritance. When the Phase-head gets rid of its uFF via feature inheri-
tance, it can remain active in the derivation (i.e. in the edge). What Richards (2010)
further derives from this is that the once impoverished status of T in Chomsky’s
(2008) system now gains strength from the fact that it is obligatory as a recipient
of features from C. And this logic can easily be extended to the v/V domain as well.
Ultimately, this suggests a strictly alternating pattern between Phases and Non-
Phases, which eventually can be reconciled with the Phases as lexical arrays view,
since each lexical array, i.e. Phase, then consists of a Non-Phase and a Phase-head
and is thus composed pairwise.
So, the lexical array based approach to the identification of Phases explored in
Richards (2010) is just as interface independent as the account that identifies
Phases via designated Phase-heads that introduce uFF into the derivation. It does
not need to make recourse to interface related concepts of isolability or proposi-
tionality and is just as lexicon-syntax centered as its alternative. However, it should
be noted that even Chomsky acknowledges that these interface properties should
be regarded as epiphenomena that can be derived from narrow syntactic proper-
ties (cf. Gallego 2010: 40–41). Given the SMT holds, this should not even come as
a surprise. In fact, it is expected that narrow syntactic properties have a noticeable
effect at the interfaces, it just should not be the case that interface effects determine
narrow syntactic properties and operations, since this would amount, yet again, to
a reversal of the SMT.
25.	 Note that this holds for any version of the PIC, even for the revised one in Richards (2010).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
So, prima facie the lexical array based approach of Richards (2010) and the
uFF approach of Chomsky (2008), Gallego (2010) and many others seem to be
equally conceptually natural now. However, as has been shown above, Richards’
lexical array based analysis of Phases still relies on feature inheritance. In fact,
Richards himself acknowledges that there is a discrepancy here:
[...] the explanation of the pairwise composition of LAs [...] was premised on
Chomsky’s (O[n] P[hases]) feature-inheritance system – a maximally phase-head-
centric approach to phase theory that sits uneasily with the elimination of phase
heads as a primitive notion from the LA-based system. The question that arises,
then, is to what extent these two seemingly diametrically opposed approaches to
phases are compatible with each other. Can they be unified? (Richards 2010: 92)
However, the alternative question to be asked here is why a conception of Phases as
uFF-based should be given up, when feature inheritance, which is arguably based
on the very distinction between Phase-heads and Non-Phase-heads – that is man-
ifest in the presence vs. absence of uFF on the LI upon entering into the derivation
– is called for anyway. Differently put, it could be argued that a conception of Phas-
es that relies on pairwise composition but still requires feature inheritance and by
logical extension a distinction between heads that introduce uFF into the deriva-
tion and those that inherit these uFF is redundant. In comparison, a conception of
Phases that relies on uFF alone and does not care about pairwise composition is
simpler in Occam’s razor terms and therefore under ceteris paribus preferable.26
With this much in place, let me now return to the question of what this means
for the analysis in Chapters 2–4, which, after all, relies heavily on Phases. It should
be immediately obvious that the early conception of Phases is incompatible with
the approach pursued here. Interface isolability and propositionality are not in-
duced as relevant criteria for Phasehood, and indeed, many of the Phases identi-
fied here do not satisfy these criteria. This, however, is not a problem when we
acknowledge that the existence of these interface properties are but epiphenomena
that arise from narrow syntactic properties. Yet, this does not mean that Phases
here are regarded as totally interface independent. On the contrary, it is shown
that Phases have clear interface effects, as is expected under the SMT. However,
these effects can be traced back to deeper syntactic criteria.
In this sense, then Phases are conceived of as interface-free here, just as much
as under the Chomsky (2008) and Richards (2010) account. Furthermore, it is
obvious that among the remaining two options the analysis in Chapters 2–4 relies
26.	 Notice also that under a Phase-account that does not rely on lexical arrays the derivation
can be fed directly from the lexicon and does not need to proceed neither via a Numeration –
prechunked or not – thereby avoiding the onerous question how the Numeration/derivation
knows where the relevant cut off points are.
	 Chapter 5.  Theoretical implications	 
on a conception of Phases that is based on Phase-heads with uFF rather than on
the pairwise composition of lexical arrays.
Since, as can be concluded from the discussion above, consideration of uFF is
a prerequisite for either conception of Phases, it is about time to take a closer look
at φ-features. This will be dealt with in the next section.
5.3	 φ-Features
The result of the discussion of Phases in the previous section is that Phase-heads
signal what constitutes a Phase and these Phase-heads in turn are signaled by the
presence of unvalued features. So those features that need to get valued and deleted
in the course of the derivation are taken as crucial indications for Phasehood in so
far as the heads that introduce these features into the derivation are identified as
Phase-heads (cf. Chomsky e.g. 2002; 2004; 2008). Prima facie this conception of
Phases does not seem to be easily reconcilable with the stand on Phases taken here.
Under the Chomskyan (2001; 2002) system the only heads that introduce unvalued
φ-features into the derivation are C and v*, and for the latter it is not even clear
whether e.g. unaccusative v constitutes a Phase-head or not (cf. e.g. Marantz 2007;
Boeckx 2009 vs. Chomsky 2004; 2008 for two diametrically opposed views on this).
So, before fully embracing the view that Phase-heads can be identified on the
basis of their property of introducing unvalued features into the derivation, let me
briefly digress and pay some more attention to the question of the role that defec-
tive Phase-heads play in this system, because this is the place where interesting
insights on the properties of non-defective Phase-heads can be gained. According
to the standard reasoning in Chomsky (2001; 2002), unaccusative v is not a Phase-
head because it is defective. This defectiveness is manifest in the lack of the ability
of v to assign (Accusative) case and it results from the fact that v lacks the full set
of φ-features. However, this is also where things start to get a bit vague.
Under the standard (and more restrained) view, it is not the case that such a v
does not have the full set of φ-features, it is just that all the φ-features of v are
matched, yet not all of them are valued (cf. Gallego 2010: 27–28). This hinges on
the assumption that in an Agree-driven system the operation Agree that has the
potential to assign a value to an unvalued feature consists of two steps. The first is
Match, the second is Valuation (cf. Hornstein 2009; Gallego 2010). Thus, defec-
tiveness is a situation in which there is Matching, but there is no Valuation.
Under the slightly more radical view the defectiveness of Phases is defined by
the complete absence of one of the φ-features on the defective Phase-head
(cf. Chomsky 2000; 2001; Gallego 2010: 119–120 for further discussion). Depend-
ing on whether v is unaccusative/passive or a raising/ECM verb the defectiveness
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
is either expressed in the lack of a person feature; the former case, or the lack of a
number feature; the latter case.
One last option, which I will not discuss any further here is that defective-
ness is the result of the absence of a projection close to a Phase-head (cf. Gallego
2010: ibid).
So, under the standard conceptions it is either the case that a Phase-head is
defective, if this is a head that either introduces a set of unvalued φ-features into
the derivation that is incomplete in the sense that one of the φ-features is absent,
or if it is a head that has the full set of unvalued φ-features, but fails to value all of
them upon Matching so that a second Match and Valuation operation for the same
set of φ-features is necessary. If, however, the full set of φ-features is present on a
given head and all of the φ-features are valued upon Matching, then the head is a
non-defective, fully operative Phase-head. In essence, as I have already pointed
out above, Phase-heads emerge as the locus for the introduction of unvalued
φ-features into the derivation (cf. Gallego 2010; Chomsky 2004; 2008; Boeckx
2009; etc.) and the identification of a Phase is intimately tied to the presence of
unvalued φ-features.
However, we have already seen that there are some qualifications to this con-
ception. Under certain circumstances some heads are identified as defective rather
than fully operative, i.e. non-defective Phase-heads. What is striking about the
characterization of defective Phase-heads under the standard view is that potential
defectiveness is always confined to the probing element, i.e. to the Phase-head. But
this leaves a number of questions unanswered. For one, it remains somewhat un-
clear whether the unvalued φ-features that are relevant in the context of defective
Phases are really only person and number, as is argued in Chomsky (2001). Here a
non-defective v* and C Phase-head is characterized by the presence of both of
these features on the Phase-head and this is distinguished from defective v, which
differs from the non-defective variant in that it lacks a specification for one of
these features (cf. ibid), as has already been pointed out above.
This begs the question whether there is also a defective version of C and
whether the defectiveness on C also yields the two way distinction between defec-
tive person and defective number features that parallels the unaccusative/passive
vs. raising/ECM distinction. Furthermore, the question whether defectiveness is
limited to probing elements only emerges. Differently put, the question then is
whether only Probes, i.e. Phase-heads are likely candidates for showing the defi-
ciency or whether Goals can also be defective (c.f. e.g. Roberts 2010).
And ultimately, in a more general sense there is also the question whether
defectiveness exists with any relevant consequences at all or whether there is just a
principled distinction between heads that are Phase-heads and those that are not.
After all, Gallego (2010) is right in raising the question of what is the point in
	 Chapter 5.  Theoretical implications	 
calling something a defective Phase-head if it does not trigger Transfer. Either an
LI triggers Transfer and then it is a Phase-head or it does not and then it behaves
like all the other LIs that are not Phase-heads.
So, despite the apparently very simple picture in Chomsky (2000; 2001) under
which Phase-heads are determined by the presence of valued φ-features there is
still a substantial amount of variation possible and a number of proposals have
been made to explore the different paths that are open from here on out. Again, in
this chapter it is not my intention to explore all of these potential paths in great
depth. Rather I will focus once more on the question what the implications of the
analysis presented in Chapter 2–4 of this study are in this context. As has been
indicated above already, following the analysis in Marantz (2001; 2007) under
which all categorizing x-heads are Phase-heads deviates significantly from the
dedicated Phase-heads that are identified in Chomsky (2002; 2004) as the LIs that
introduce unvalued φ-features into the derivation, at least when the relevant
φ-features are person and number and arguably nothing else.
Marantz (2007: 1–2) argues that the categorizing x-heads form words with a
categorial feature and a φ-feature set out of uncategorized roots. These words then
behave like Phases in the sense that they have a propositional status similar to the
status that Chomsky (2000; 2001) assigns to Phases. However, the discussion in
Chapter 5.2 has shown that the identification of Phases on the basis of their prop-
ositional characteristics is somewhat problematic and it has been discarded in
Chomsky’s later papers (cf. e.g. 2004; 2008).
Notice though that the Marantzian conception of categorizing little x-heads as
Phase-heads is not incompatible with the identification of Phase-heads in Chomsky
(2004; 2008). After all, the property of the categorizing x-head that makes it a Phase-
head is that it introduces φ-features into the derivation, just like the Phase-heads in
Chomsky (2004; 2008) do. The only difference between the Marantzian and the
Chomskyan conception of Phase-heads is that for Chomsky only v and C count as
Phase-heads, because these are the only LIs that introduce unvalued φ-features into
the derivation, whereas for Marantz all x-heads are Phase-heads regardless of wheth-
er the φ-features they introduce into the derivation are valued or unvalued.
The analysis in Chapter 2 clearly follows the conception of Phases in Marantz
(2007) in so far as it identifies n-heads as Phase-heads, irrespective of the fact that
the person and number features of this head are introduced into the derivation as
valued features. Yet, this does not mean that the analysis also necessarily embraces
the Marantzian assumption that these Phases are propositional units.27
27.	 To be clear, the analysis also does not rule this out, which is as it should be given Chomsky’s
conception that Phase-boundaries have significant interpretation at the interfaces (cf. Gallego
2010: 40) is only an ancillary fallout from the role that Phases play within (narrow) syntax.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
First, the analysis in Chapter 2 under which n-heads emerge as Phase-heads
hinges on the fact that it is not enough if the two n-heads in a productive, recursive
and compositional nominal root compound bear valued φ-features for person and
number; rather the actual values of the φ-features are also important. For the PoS
eradicating incorporation to be operative in this type of nominal root compound,
one of the n-heads needs to have a marked, i.e. non-default, value on its number
feature. Recall further that the conditions for incorporation are those described in
Roberts (2010). The hallmark of Roberts’ incorporation analysis is that the Goal,
i.e. the LI that is incorporated into a probing head, is defective. This defectiveness,
however, is not determined in absolute terms. Rather it is a relative notion that
emerges from the fact that the feature set of the Probe properly includes the feature
set of the Goal. The analysis in Chapter 2 has shown that this is precisely the situ-
ation that can be observed in cases of nominal root compounding. Thus, here it is
the Goal LI rather than the probing head that is defective.28
Now, does this make every little x-head a Phase-head? The answer is: maybe.
From the perspective that it is the EFs on the respective n-heads that induce prob-
ing, every x-head, which is equipped with an EF, is a Phase-head. This, of course,
makes every head a Phase-head (cf. also Epstein & Seely 2002; Gallego 2010: 43).
However, at the same time it should be kept in mind that EFs, although they have
the capability of initiating probing, never get valued. This is because they do not
need to. They can pass Spell-Out without being valued or deleted (cf. Chomsky
2008; Narita 2011 and others). Thus, although all x-heads, and in fact all LIs, have
the potential of initiating probing, due to their unvalued EFs, they are at best a
version of defective Phase-heads, because their unvalued (and probing) feature
never gets valued or deleted.
Hence, the question whether e.g. an a-head is a Phase-head in the same sense
that n-heads are Phase-heads in Chapter 2, can only be answered when the proper-
ties of both heads are carefully compared and when it is determined which features,
other than person and number, are introduced by n, or a respectively. However,
this is beyond the scope of the present analysis. Thus, the answer to whether really
all x-heads are Phase-heads as indicated by Marantz (2001; 2007) will remain un-
answered at this point. Yet, it should be clear that the identification of n as a Phase-
head is not as irreconcilable with current assumptions on Phase-heads as it may
seem at first sight. This is especially true when taking into consideration how the
28.	 Here a qualifying statement might be in order. Of course, the labels Probe and Goal here
emerge only as epiphenomenal, since according to the analysis in Chapter 2 it is the EF on both
n-heads that initiate probing.
	 Chapter 5.  Theoretical implications	 
valued φ-features on the n-head are interpreted.29 Recall that the [plural] feature
on n does not necessarily lead to a genuine plural interpretation. Instead, it is in-
terpreted as kind, suggesting that a plural interpretation roughly in the sense of
‘a-set-of-distinctive-entities-of-a-quantity-larger-than-one’ does not hinge on the
presence or absence of the φ-feature [plural] alone, but rather on the interaction
between this φ-feature and certain other dedicated functional heads (cf. e.g. Borer
2005a;b; Alexiadou, Haegeman & Stavrou 2007 and others), as well as the discus-
sion of this issue in Chapter 2. However, not all of these functional heads are
necessarily also Phase-heads. In this sense, the ‘reduction-of-computational-load’
(cf. Chomsky 2000; 2005; 2008) argument also ties in nicely, in so far as the n-head
is just one cut off point at which the computational load that has built up from the
introduction of the interpretable φ-features person and number and arguably oth-
er features, e.g. gender, declension class and a host of semantic features that are
interpretable and inherent to the root have accumulated.30
So let me now turn to the other LIs that are identified as Phase-heads.
In Chapter 3 v is identified as a Phase-head. This probably comes closest to
Chomsky’s original conception of Phase-heads. The only caveat here is that -ing
introducing v is really an instance of v rather than v*, but it is certainly an LI that
introduces unvalued φ-features into the derivation. These φ-features are again
valued by the interpretable φ-features on the SO that is the complement of the
root that v categorizes.31 In this respect, v does not differ from the Phase-head
that Chomsky (2000 et passim) identifies.32 The other Phase-head discussed in
Chapter 3 is perfectly parallel to the Phase-head in Chapter 2. It is a nominalizing
29.	 I am (sort-of) assuming that the valued features are interpretable (cf. Chomsky 1995a) and I
brush over some subtle distinctions between φ-features that may be valued but non interpretable
(cf. e.g. Chomsky 2000; 2001; Gallego 2010) for some remarks that go into the same direction.
30.	 Actually, it is far from clear which features are the relevant features here. Chances are that
more than just person and number are relevant for the composition of an LI and there may even
be some mechanism like Merge, say Merge’ (cf. Gallego 2011) that compiles features in the lexicon
and forms what is pretheoretically identified as a word in syntax. However, at least to my knowl-
edge, this has not been worked out anywhere yet and Gallego’s (2011) proposal is a first step into
this direction. Whether this conception is reconcilable with the approach taken here is an inter-
esting question that can only be determined on the basis of further research in both directions.
31.	 Notice too that the incorporation onto verbal (and nominal) -ing in the forms in Chapter 3
is again determined by the absence of definiteness features on the incorporating SO. Thus, this
is again a potential case of defectiveness akin to the defective Goal identified in Chapter 2 in the
context of the incorporation analysis based on Roberts (2010).
32.	 Recall also that the the questions of whether there exist a defective and a non-defective ver-
sion of v and if so whether these actually behave differently with respect to the capacity of induc-
ing Spell-Out is far from settled (cf. e.g. Legate 2003; Marantz 2007; Boeckx 2009; Gallego 2010
for arguments that there is virtually no distinction between v and v*).
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
n Phase-head. The only difference between the n-head in Chapter 2 and the one
in Chapter 3 is that n is merged to an uncategorized root in Chapter 2, thus in-
stantiating inner morphology in the sense of Marantz (2007), while the n-head in
Chapter 3 is merged to an already categorized SO, thus instantiating a case of
outer morphology (cf. again Marantz 2007).
Finally, the Phase-head that is identified in Chapter 4 is D (or K33 for that mat-
ter). Now, to be clear here let me emphasize that D, just like the -ing/-ung introduc-
ing n in Chapter 3, is a Phase-head that is in all likelihood attached on top of an
already categorized phasal n. In a sense then D is also a case of outer morphology
just like -ing/-ung introducing n, although it is, of course, not affixal.34 Then again,
the question that remains is what makes D a Phase-head. Arguably, just like n and
v, D is also an LI that introduces φ-features into the derivation. In essence, D is
identified as the counterpart of C in the clausal domain (cf. e.g. Chomsky 2005;
Hiraiwa 2005 and others). An investigation into the concise properties of D is be-
yond the scope of the discussion in this section. Nevertheless some rather short
qualifying remarks might be useful.
The strongest argument for D as a Phase-head in Chapter 4 is of empirical
nature and can just be derived from the analysis of the data. However, there might
also be some indications that D introduces unvalued φ-features into the deriva-
tion. When following the original account in Narita (2011) on which the analysis
in Chapter 4 is based, Case is the most obvious candidate. However, I refrained
from fully embracing this line of analysis in Chapter 4, for the simple reason that
the n-heads in Chapter 2 also show case marking. So, either these ns are also Ds or
the correlation between D and Case does not hold.
Yet, as the discussion in Chapter 2 has shown, it may turn out that the n-heads
are all marked for inherent Case and not for structural Case. Recall, that genitive
Case has been identified as one of the (valued and) interpretable features on the
n-heads in nominal root compounds and that for those n-heads that are marked
for [plural] it is not really clear whether they bear genitive Case as well, because in
German all plural forms are syncretic between nominative and genitive Case.
Thus, it might be reasonable to assume that the distinction between inherent and
structural Case falls along the n vs. D line. D then is the locus for unvalued and
33.	 I will eventually remain neutral on the question whether D or K is the actual Phase-head (but
cf. comments below). There are a number of arguments in favor of either D or K being a Phase-
head (cf. Svenonius 2004; Bošković 2005; Hiraiwa 2005; Matushansky 2005; Müller & Heck 2008;
Ott 2008; Samuels 2008; Narita 2009; 2011; Richards 2012) and whatever turns out to be the rel-
evant Phase-head should be compatible with the argumentation presented in Chapter 4.
34.	 Obviously this statement comes with a caveat. There are, of course, a number of languages,
where D may well be affixal. This, however, does not diminish the validity of the argument,
rather – if anything – it adds to its strength.
	 Chapter 5.  Theoretical implications	 
uninterpretable (structural) Case features, whereas (inherent) Case features on n
are interpretable. Ultimately, what values the φ-features on D is just the tense fea-
ture on v/V or C/T respectively (cf. Gallego 2010 for a detailed analysis that goes
into the same direction).
However, the properties of these φ-features are far from clear and until we
have a more scientific account on the role, function and type of the φ-features that
are relevant, we can just note that none of the potential Phase-heads discussed in
this study fall in line with those that have already been identified as the obvious
potential candidates elsewhere. All that the analysis presented here does in this
respect is that it adds some substance to the role that some of the φ-features are
supposed to play.
Still, it might turn out that syntax, regardless of whether it is Agree-driven as
in Chomsky (2008) or Merge-driven as in Narita (2009; 2011) and here is far less
featural than is generally assumed (cf. e.g. Boeckx 2010 for some ideas in this di-
rection). As long as φ-features remain the unknown in our equation, i.e. as long as
there is no coherent explanation for what they are, where they come from and
which function they fulfill, these questions must remain unanswered. At least,
though, we are in a position to isolate the unknown variable in our equation and
work with the rest, which is precisely the position that we are familiar with from
all over (natural) science and thus a situation that should give rise to hope rather
than despair.
chapter 6
Conclusion
Starting from the assumption that Merge is an operation that can apply freely in
narrow syntax, this study investigates structures that are created by this uncon-
strained form of Merge and analyzes in particular those constructions resulting
from an unconstrained, or wild-type, Merge that are characterized by a PoS and
that therefore cannot be labeled.
The analysis of these labelless symmetric SOs encompasses three broad em-
pirical domains: nominal root compounds, nominal gerunds and SCs. The PoSs
that arise in these constructions, in a sense, are and are not all alike. Thus, a dis-
tinction is to be made between the types of objects that are involved in the con-
struction of the symmetric SO: while nominal root compounds are adjunction
structures, i.e. structures in which no selection relation holds between the two
(or more) heads involved, incorporated forms of nominal gerunds are those in
which an argument relation holds between the (verbal) incorporation host and the
(nominal) incorporee. In SCs, on the other hand neither an argument relation nor
an adjunction relation holds between the two PoS inducing SOs.
Despite these apparent differences, the analysis in this study shows that the
PoS that is created in these various types of constructions can be traced back to the
same structural configuration. In each case the PoS that arises is one that results
from the Merger of two LIs, i.e. heads. Thus, previous analyses that argued for a
principled distinction between a PoS resulting from the Merger of two heads, as in
the nominal root compounds and in incorporated nominal gerunds on the one
hand, and a PoS resulting from the Merger of two Phrases, as in SCs on the other
hand, are unwarranted. Given basic assumptions on Merge, i.e. that this is an op-
eration that needs at least one SO with an EF – which is just an LI – as its input,
there simply are no cases of XP – XP Merger and a PoS resulting from the Merger
of two phrases can thus never arise. Therefore all symmetries that arise in the
course of the derivation can be traced back to a Merge configuration that involves
two heads.
Still, upon closer inspection a distinction between the various instantiations of
such a PoS can be made. Within the domain of nominal root compounds two
configurations are distinguished. Under one the PoS arises from the Merger of two
unlabeled roots. The resulting SO is itself an unlabeled constituent. This unlabeled
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
symmetric SO, however, is never interpreted as such, because it is never spelled-
out. Only when the unlabeled symmetric SO is embedded under a categorizing
x-head, n in this case, is the complement domain of this Phase-instantiating x-head
spelled out and the PoS is dissolved at PF.
In the other configuration the PoS results from Merger of two n-heads. This
situation parallels the Merger of two roots, in so far as this is likewise an instantia-
tion of a PoS that arises from Merger of two LIs, because the complement domain
of each of the two n-heads is spelled-out, by virtue of them being Phase-heads,
thus leaving behind nothing but the categorizing functional heads themselves.
This situation is different from the situation that arises from Merger of two roots,
in so far as each of the two n-heads spells-out their respective complement do-
main, i.e. the root they are merged to, prior to the instantiation of the PoS that
results from the Merger of the two n-heads themselves. The PoS is then dissolved
by incorporating one of the elements into the other. This incorporation operation
is guided by an independently motivated incorporation constraint.
The distinction between compositional, productive and recursive nominal
root compounds and their non-compositional, non-productive and non-recursive
counterparts is an immediate consequence of these differences. Thus, the distinc-
tion between two types of nominal root compounds, both of which can be found
in intra-language variation, e.g. in German, can be regarded as a first indication
for an empirical phenomenon that is at the surface of grammar, but the origins of
which are rooted in deep principles of narrow syntax and thus as the best evidence
for the inner workings of the SMT.
A second empirical domain in which we can observe basically the same kinds
of effects is that of nominal gerunds and their counterparts in other languages
(i.e. among others nominalized infinitives in German and supine forms in Roma-
nian). Here a PoS arises from Merger of a categorized n-head (again, presumably
with a spelled-out complement domain) with an uncategorized root, which is cat-
egorized at a later stage of the derivation, namely under feature inheritance. Thus,
here the PoS is manifest only when the uncategorized verbal root (i.e. what is tra-
ditionally glossed as V) is actually verbalized by Merger of v and when feature
inheritance has taken place. Two options are available at this point. Either a Case-
marking preposition, i.e. of is inserted – thereby blocking incorporation – or in-
corporation that is guided by the same principles as incorporation in nominal root
compounds takes place. Again, both options lead to subtle but clearly and easily
identifiable differences in meaning. In the former case a specific-interpretation re-
sults, in the latter a kind-reading emerges. A careful comparison between those
nominal gerunds that license aspectual projections in their incorporated and non-
incorporated forms and those that do not license such projections further reveals
that these distinctions can be traced back to the nature of the -ing affix. If the affix
	 Chapter 6.  Conclusion	 
is generated low in the tree, it is a verbal affix and aspectual structure is licensed.
This verbal structure is also present in those cases where the -ing affix is generated
under a nominalizing node. However, the access to these verbal properties, which
is manifest in the ability of the licensing of aspectual modifiers, is blocked in these
cases, because the nominalizing -ing affix instantiates a n-Phase-head and thus
blocks access to lower functional structure that is located in the domain of the
spelled-out n-Phase.
Thus, here again we are facing a situation where subtle interpretive distinc-
tions that can be linked to the occurrence vs. non-occurrence of aspectual mark-
ing are predicted by the theory, i.e. a situation where we can derive yet another
indication for the SMT at work.
The last empirical domain investigated in this study, in which, again, similar
effects can be observed, is the domain of SCs. Here, also, the PoS results from
Merger of two LIs. This follows from the requirements on Merge, i.e. that for Merge
to be operative at least one of the elements that partake in the operation must be
an LI with an EF. This rules out the possibility that two phrases can ever be merged.
Thus, in structural terms Merger of two DPs as LIs, i.e. as D-heads, in SCs is not
any different from Merger of say two n-heads in compositional, recursive and pro-
ductive nominal root compounds, or, for that matter, Merger of two roots in the
non-compositional compounds. The only detectable difference, if any, is that
Merger of two D-heads is a Merger of two LIs that have already spelled-out their
complement domains – which is yet again similar to the n – n Merger cases –
whereas Merger of two roots is Merger of two LIs that have not received any inter-
pretation yet. What differs between cases of n – n Merger and cases of D – D
Merger is that only the former is susceptible to incorporation. In the latter the
feature-set of the two D-heads does not meet the requirements for incorporation,
i.e. there will be a distinction in Case-marking and possibly other feature specifica-
tions that prevents incorporation. Thus, two possibilities arise. Either the SO that
is created by D – D Merger is one that is symmetric and thus unlabeled and when
this is spelled-out at the next higher Phase-level it renders an equation interpreta-
tion, or, alternatively, one of the D-heads is displaced via IM, which is always an
option, because the EF is available on a spelled-out Phase-head. This is what ren-
ders SCHM, produces an asymmetric and thus labelable structure and leads to a
predication-interpretation.
This latter strategy is also available in those SCs where a spelled-out Phase-
head with an EF, i.e. (specifierless) D, is merged with a SO that cannot be reduced
via Spell-Out, e.g. a constituent that is traditionally labeled as PP or AP. While it is
not possible to remerge the AP or PP constituents, because they are not Phase-
heads and thus not susceptible to Merge via their EF (potentially baring some
cases in which the preposition is simply a Case-marker), it is perfectly fine to
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
remerge the DP constituent. This means though that subextraction out of AP or
DP is fine, as long as the subextracted element is an LI with an EF. In principle this
strategy is also available when the two SC constituents are DPs, because it is enough
to reduce just one DP to an LI with an EF. This D-head can then be merged to a DP
that is still a complex SO without an EF and it has the effect that the complex (non-
reduced) DP remains available for subextraction (which is not an option when the
domain of a Phase-head has been spelled-out). In any case, a PoS does not arise in
these cases, which are all standard cases of X – YP Merger, i.e. Merger of a head
and a phrase, and again a sufficiently asymmetric and labelable structure results.
Corroborating evidence that this is on the right track comes from wh-extraction
and subextraction data in multiple wh-fronting languages, which shows that it is
possible to either fully extract both SC constituents (of a DP – DP SC) or to sub-
extract from one and to fully extract the other, while it is impossible to subextract
from both SC constituents at the same time. This is what is expected when at least
one of the SC constituents must be merged as an LI with an EF – which is what
makes subextraction from SO impossible.
So again, subtle distinctions in meaning, i.e. in equative constructions vs.
predication constructions, and subtle facts from extraction and subextraction pos-
sibilities under multiple wh-fronting can be linked to (the same) deep syntactic
principles that can be immediately related to the SMT. Thus, taking for granted
that the SMT is probably too strong, there is at least a good indication in seem-
ingly peripheral domains of the grammar that something close to the SMT is at
work at the core of human language.
References
Aarts, B. 1992. Small Clauses in English. The Non-verbal Types. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. DOI:
10.1515/9783110861457
Abels, K. 2003. Successive-cyclicity, Anti-locality and Adposition Stranding. PhD dissertation,
UConn.
Abels, K. 2007. Towards a restrictive theory of (remnant) movement. Linguistic Variation Year-
book 7: 53–120.
Abels, K. 2009. Some implications of improper movement for cartography. In Alternatives to
Cartography, Jeroen van Craenenbroeck (ed.), 325–259. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. DOI:
10.1515/9783110217124.325
Abney, S.P. 1987. The English Noun Phrase in its Sentential Aspect. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Adger, D. 2003. Core Syntax. Oxford: OUP.
Adger, D. 2010. A minimalist theory of feature structure. In Features. Perspectives on a Key
Notion in Linguistics, A. Kibort & G. Corbett (eds), 185- 218. Oxford: OUP.
Alexiadou,A.2001.FunctionalStructureinNominals:NominalizationandErgativity.Amsterdam:
John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/la.42
Alexiadou, A. 2008. On the role of syntactic locality in morphological processes: The case of
(Greek) derived nominals. In Quantification, Definiteness and Nominalization, A. Gianna-
kidou & M. Rathert (eds), 253–280. Oxford: OUP.
Alexiadou, A., Haegeman, L. & Stavrou, M. 2007. Noun Phrases in the Generative Perspective.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. DOI: 10.1515/9783110207491
Alexiadou, A., Anagnostopoulou, E. & Schäfer, F. 2009. PP licensing in nominalizations. In Pro-
ceedings of NELS 38, A. Schardl, M. Walkow & M. Abdurrahman (eds), 39–52. Amherst
MA: GLSA.
Alexidaou, A., Iordăchioaia, G. & Soare, E. 2010. Plural marking in argument supporting nomi-
nalizations. In Layers of Aspect, P. Cabredo-Hofherr & B. Laca (eds), 1–22. Stanford CA:
CSLI.
Allen, M.R. 1978. Morphological Investigations. PhD dissertation, UConn.
Anagnostopoulou, E. 2009. Domains for idioms. Handout from talk at Roots Workshop.
University of Stuttgart.
Baker, M. 1988. Incorporation: A Theory of Grammatical Function Changing. Chicago IL: Uni-
versity of Chicago Press.
Baker, M. 1995. Lexical and nonlexical noun incorporaion. In Lexical Knowledge in the Organiza-
tion of Language, U. Egli, P. Pause & C. Schwarze (eds), 3–34. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Baker, M. 2003. On the loci of agreement: Inversion constructions in Mapudungun. In Proceed-
ings from NELS 33, M. Kadowaski & S. Kawahara (eds), 25–49. Amherst MA: GLSA.
Baker, M. 2008. The macroparameter in a microparametric world. In The Limits of Syntactic
Variation, T. Biberauer (ed.). 351–374. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Baker, M. 2009. Is head movement still needed for incorporation? Lingua 119: 148–165. DOI:
10.1016/j.lingua.2007.10.010
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Baker, M. Aranovich, R. & Golluscio, L. 2005. Two types of syntactic incorporation: Noun in-
corporation in Mapudungun and its typological implications. Language 81: 138–176. DOI:
10.1353/lan.2005.0003
Baker, M. & Collins, C. 2006. Linkers and the internal structure of vP. NLLT 24: 307–354.
Barrie, M. 2006. Dynamic Antisymmetry and the Syntax of Noun Incorporation. PhD disserta-
tion, University of Toronto.
Barrie, M. 2010. on Noun incorporation as symmetry breaking. Canadian Journal of Linguistics
53(3): 273–301. DOI: 10.1353/cjl.2010.0017
Barrie, M. & Spreng, B. 2009. Noun incorporation and the progressive in German. Lingua 119:
374–388. DOI: 10.1016/j.lingua.2007.10.020
Bauer, L. 2004. A Glossary of Morphology. Washington DC: Georgetown University Press.
Bauke, L. 2009. On nominal compounds in German. Ms, UMass.
Bauke, L. & Roeper, T. 2012. How phase-based interpretations dictate the typology of nominal-
izations. In Discourse and grammer, G. Grewendorf & E. Zimmermann (eds). 289–320.
de Belder, M. 2011. Roots and Affixes: Eliminating Lexical Categories from Syntax. PhD dis-
sertation, Utrecht University/Uil-OTS & HUBrussel/CRISSP.
Berwick, R. & Chomsky, N. 2011. The biolinguistic program: the current state of its development.
In The Biolinguistic Enterprise, C. Boeckx & A.M. DiSciullo (eds), 19–41. Oxford: OUP.
Bieberauer, T., Holmberg, A., Roberts, I. & Sheehan, M. 2009. Parametric Variation: Null Sub-
jects in Minimalist Theory. Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511770784
Bisetto, A. 2010. Recursiveness in Italian compounds. SKASE Journal of Theoretical Linguistics
7(1): 14–35.
Blume, K. 2004. Nominalisierte Infinitive. Eine empirisch basierte Studie zum Deutschen.
Tübingen: Niemeyer. DOI: 10.1515/9783110919738
Boeckx, C. 2006. Linguistic Minimalism. Oxford: OUP.
Boeckx, C. 2007. Understanding Minimalist Syntax: Lessons from Locality in Long-Distance
Dependencies. Oxford: Blackwell.
Boeckx, C. 2008a. Bare Syntax. Oxford: OUP.
Boeckx, C. 2008b. I-semantics. Handout from talk at Biosemantics Workshop at Leiden
University.
Boeckx, C. 2009. On the locus of asymmetry in UG. Catalan journal of linguistics 8: 41–53.
Boeckx, C. 2010a. What principles & parameters got wrong. Ms, ICREA/UAB.
Boeckx, C. 2010b. Defeating lexicocentrism. Ms, ICREA/UAB.
Boeckx, C. & Stjepanović, S. 2001. Head-ing toward PF. LI 32(2): 345–355.
Boeckx, C. & Grohmann, K. 2007. Putting phases into perspective. Syntax 10: 204–222. DOI:
10.1111/j.1467-9612.2007.00098.x
Boeckx,C.&Uriagereka,J.2007.Minimalism.InHandbookofLinguisticInterfaces,G.Ramchand
& C. Reiss (eds), 541–573. Oxford: OUP.
Booij, G. 1992. Compounding in Dutch. Rivista di Linguistica 4: 37–59.
Borer, H. 1984. Parametric Syntax. Dordrecht: Foris.
Borer, H. 1999. The formation, the forming and the form of nominals. Handout from talk at
Round Table on Event Struture. Simon Fraser University, Vancouver.
Borer, H. 2003. Exo-skeletal vs. endo-skeletal explanations. In The Nature of Explanation in
Linguistic Theory, J. Moore & M. Polinsky (eds), 31–67. Stanford CA: CSLI.
Borer, H. 2005a. In Name Only. Structuring Sense, Vol. I. Oxford: OUP. DOI: 10.1093/acprof:os
o/9780199263905.001.0001
	 References	 
Borer, H. 2005b. The Normal Course of Events. Structuring Sense, Vol. II. Oxford: OUP. DOI:
10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199263929.001.0001
Borer, H. 2009. Roots and categories. Handout from talk at 19th Colloquium on Generative
Grammar. University of the Basque country, Vitoria.
Bošković, Z. 2005. On the locality of left branch extraction and the structure of NP. Studia
Linguistica 59: 589–644. DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9582.2005.00118.x
Bošković, Z. 2007. On the locality and motivation of Move and Agree: An even more minimal
theory. LI 38: 589–644.
Branigan, P. 2005. The Phase theoretic bass for subject-aux inversion. Ms, Memorial University.
Cable, S. 2010. The Grammar of Q: Q-particles, Wh-Movement and Pied-piping. Oxford: OUP.
Chametzky, R. 2000. Phrase Structure. Oxford: Blackwell.
Chierchia, G. 1998a. Reference to kinds across languages. Natural language semantics 6(4):
339–405. DOI: 10.1023/A:1008324218506
Chierchia, G. 1998b. Plurality of mass nouns and the notion of ‘semantic parameter’. In Events
in Grammar, S. Rothstein (ed.), 53–103. Dordrecht: Kluwer. DOI: 10.1007/978-94-011-
3969-4_4
Chomsky, N. 1955 [1975]. The Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory. New York NY: Plenum.
Chomsky, N. 1957. Syntactic Structures. The Hague: Mouton.
Chomsky, N. 1959. Review of Skinner’s Verbal Behavior. Language 35: 26–58. DOI: 10.2307/
411334
Chomsky, N. 1964. Current Issues in Linguistic Theory. The Hague: Mouton.
Chomsky, N. 1965. Aspects of a Theory of Syntax. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 1966. Topics in the Theory of Generative Grammar. The Hague: Mouton.
Chomsky, N. 1970. Remarks on nominalization. In Readings in Transformational Grammar,
J. Roderick & P. Rosenbaum (eds), 184–221. Washington DC: Georgetown University Press.
Chomsky, N. 1981. Lectures on Government and Binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
Chomsky, N. 1982. Some Concepts and Consequences of the Theory of Government and Binding.
Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 1986a. Barriers. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 1986b. Knowledge of Language. New York, NY: Praeger.
Chomsky, N. 1991. On formalization and formal linguistics. NLLT 8: 134–147.
Chomsky, N. 1995a. The Minimalist Program. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 1995b. Bare phrase structure. In Government and Binding and the Minimalist
Program, G. Webelhuth (ed.), 385–439. Oxford: Blackwell.
Chomsky, N. 2000. Minimalist inquiries: The framework. In Step by Step, R. Martin, D. Michaels
& J. Uriagereka (eds), 89–115. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Chomsky N. 2001. Derivation by phase. In Ken Hale. A Life in Language, M. Kenstowicz (ed.),
1–52. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 2004. Beyond explanatory adequacy. In Structures and Beyond, A. Belletti (ed.).
104–131. Oxford: OUP.
Chomsky, N. 2005. Three factors in language design. LI 36: 1–22.
Chomsky, N. 2007. Approaching UG from below. In Interfaces + Recursion = Language? Chom-
sky’s Minimalism and the View from Ssyntax-semantics, U. Sauerland & H.M. Gärtner (eds),
1–30. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Chomsky, N. 2008. On phases. In Foundational Issues in Linguistic Theory, R. Freidin, C. Otero
& M.L. Zubizarreta (eds), 133–166. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 2013. Problems of projection. Lingua 130: 33–49.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Chomsky, N. & Lasnik, H. 1995. Principles and parameters theory. In Syntax an International
Handbook of Contemporary Research, J. Jacobs, A. van Stechow & T. Vennemann (eds),
506–569. Berlin: de Gruyter.
Cinque, G. 1980. On extraction from NP in Italian. Journal of Italian Linguistics 5: 47-99.
Citko, B. 2008a. Small clauses reconsidered: Not so small and not all alike. Lingua 118: 261–295.
DOI: 10.1016/j.lingua.2007.05.009
Citko, B. 2008b. Missing labels. Lingua 118: 907–944. DOI: 10.1016/j.lingua.2008.01.001
Collins, C. 2002. Eliminating labels. In Derivation and Explanation in the Minimalist Program,
S. Epstein & D. Seely (eds). Oxford: Blackwell.
van Craenenbroeck, J. & de Belder, M. 2011. How to merge a root. Ms, CRISSP/HUB/FUSL/
KUL & CRISSP/HUB/UiL-OTS/Utrecht.
Cuervo, M.C. 2007. Double objects in Spanish as a Second Language: Acquisition of Morpho-
syntax and Semantics. SSLA 29: 583–615.
Delfitto, D., Fábregas, A. & Melloni, C. 2008. Compounding at the interfaces. Ms, University of
Verona & CASTL Universitetet i Tromsø.
den Dikken, M. 2006. Relators and linkers: The syntax of predication, predicate inversion, and
copulas. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
den Dikken, M. 2007a. Phase extension. Contours of a theory of the role of head movement in
phrasal extraction. Theoretical Linguistics 33(1): 1–41. DOI: 10.1515/TL.2007.001
den Dikken, M. 2007b. Phase extension: A reply. Theoretical Linguistics 33(1): 133–163. DOI:
10.1515/TL.2007.022
den Dikken, M., Meinunger, A. & Wilder, C. 2000. Pseudoclefts and ellipsis. Studia Linguistica
54(1): 41–89. DOI: 10.1111/1467-9582.00050
Di Sciullo, A.M. 2005. Asymmetry in Morphology. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Di Sciullo, A.M. & Williams, E. 1987. On the Definition of Word. Cambridge MA: The MIT
Press.
Di Sciullo, A.M. & Isac, D. 2008a. The asymmetry of merge. Biolinguistics 2(4): 260–290.
Di Sciullo, A.M. & Isac, D. 2008b. Movement chains at the interfaces. Canadian Journal of
Linguistics 53(2–3): 181–217. DOI: 10.1353/cjl.0.0016
Donati, C. & Cechetto, C. 2010. On labeling: Principle C and Head Movement. Syntax 13(3):
241–78. DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9612.2010.00140.x
Donati, C. 2006. On wh-movement. In L. Cheng & N. Corver (eds.). Wh-movement. Moving on.
Cambridge MA: MIT Press. 21–46.
Dowty, D. 1989. On the semantic content of the notion of ‘Thematic Role’. In Properties, Types
and Meaninigs, Vol II, G. Chirechia, B. Partee & R. Turner (eds), 69–129. Dordrecht:
Kluwer. DOI: 10.1007/978-94-009-2723-0_3
Dubinsky, S. & Simango, S. 1996. Passsive and stative in Chichewa: Evidence for modular dis-
tinctions in grammar. Language 72: 749–781. DOI: 10.2307/416101
Duden 2007. 6. überarbeitete Auflage. Mannheim: Dudenverlag.
Embick, D. & Marantz, A. 2008. Architecture and blocking. LI 39(1): 1–53.
Embick, D. & Noyer, R. 2007. Distributed mophology and the syntax-mrophology interface. In
The Oxford Handbook of Linguistic Interfaces, G. Ramchand & C. Reiss, 289–324. Oxford:
OUP.
Epstein, S. 1999. Un-principled syntax and the derivation of syntactic relations. In Working
Minimalism, S. Epstein & N. Hornstein (eds), 317–345. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Epstein, S., Groat, E., Kawashima, R. & Kitahara, H. 1998. A Derivational Approach to Syntactic
Relations. Oxford: OUP.
	 References	 
Epstein, S. & Seely, T. 2002. Rule applications as cycles in a level-free syntax. In Explanation and
Derivation in the Minimalist Program, S. Epstein & T. Seely (eds), 65–89. Oxford: Blackwell.
DOI: 10.1002/9780470755662.ch4
Fitch T., Hauser, M. & Chomsky, N. 2005. The evolution of the language faculty: Clarifications
and implications. Cognition 97: 179–210. DOI: 10.1016/j.cognition.2005.02.005
Fortuny, J. 2006. The Emergence of Order in Syntax. PhD dissertation, UAB.
Fox, D. & Pesetsky, D. 2003. Cyclic linearization and the typology of movement. Ms, MIT.
Fox, D. & Pesetsky, D. 2005. Cyclic linearization of syntactic structure. Theoretical Linguistics 31:
1–46. DOI: 10.1515/thli.2005.31.1-2.1
Frampton, J. & Gutmann, S. 2002. Crash-proof syntax. In Explanation and Derivation in the
Minimalist Program, S. Epstein & T. Seely (eds), 90–105. Oxford: Blackwell. DOI: 10.1002/
9780470755662.ch5
Fu, J., Roeper, T. & Borer, H. 2001. The VP within process nominals: Evidence from adverbs and
the VP anaphor do-so. NLLT 19(3): 549–582.
Gallego, A. 2010. Phase Theory. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/la.152
Gallego, A. 2011. Lexical items and feature bundling. Handout from talk at Workshop on For-
mal Grammar and Syntactic Variation. Universidad Autónoma de Madrid.
Gallego, A. & Uriagereka, J. 2007. A critique of phase extension with a comparison to phase slid-
ing. Theoretical Linguistics 33(1): 65–74. DOI: 10.1515/TL.2007.004
Gallmann, P. 1998. Case underspecification in Morphology, syntax and the lexicon. In: A. Alex-
iadou. & C. Wilder. (eds.). Possessors, predicates and movement in the determiner phrase.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins. 141–176.
Giegerich, H. 1999. Lexical Strata in English: Morphological Causes, Phonological Effects.
Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511486470
Giegerich, H. 2004. Compound or phrase? English noun-plus-noun constructions and the stress
criterion. Journal of Linguistics 8: 1–24.
Giegerich, H. 2009. Compounding and lexicalism. In Handbook of Compounding, R. Lieber & P.
Štekauer (eds), 178–200. Oxford: OUP.
Grela, S., Snyder, W. & Hiramatsu, K. 2005. The production of novel root compounds in children
with specific language impairment. Clinical linguistics & phonetics 19(8): 701–715. DOI:
10.1080/02699200400000368
Grewendorf, G. & Kremers, J. 2009. Phases and cycles: Some problems with phase theory. The
Linguistic Review 26: 385–430. DOI: 10.1515/tlir.2009.015
Grimshaw, J. 1990. Argument Structure. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Grohmann, K. 2003. Prolific Peripheries. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Guimarães, M. 2000. In defense of vacuous projections in bare phrase structure. UMDWPL 9:
90–115.
Grosz, P. 2008. A different view on ergativity in German nominalizations. Handout from talk at
ECO5. UConn.
Haider, H. 1993. Deutsche Syntax generativ. Tübingen: Narr.
Haider, H. 2010. The Syntax of German. Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511845314
Haider, H. 2013. Symmetry Breaking in Syntax. Cambridge: CUP.
Hale, K. & Keyser, S. 1992. The syntactic character of thematic structure. In Thematic Structure:
Its Role in Grammar, I. Roca (ed.), 107–143. Berlin: Foris.
Hale, K. & Keyser, S. 1993. On the argument structure and the lexical expression of syntactic
relations. In The View from Building 20: Essays in Linguistics in Honor of Sylvain Bromberger,
K. Hale & S. Keyser (eds), 53–109. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Hale, K. & Keyser, S. 2002. Prolegomenon to a Theory of Argument Structure. Cambridge MA:
The MIT Press.
Halle, M. & Marantz, A, 1993. Distributed morphology and the pieces of inflection. In The View
from Building 20: Essays in Linguistics in Honor of Sylvain Bromberger, K. Hale & S. Keyser
(eds), 117–176. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
Halle, M. & Marantz, A. 1994. Some key features in distributed morphology. MITWPL 21:
275–288.
Harley, H. 1995. Subjects Events and Licensing. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Harley, H. 1998. You’re having me on: Aspects of have. In La grammaire de la possession, J. Guéron
& A. Zribi- Hertz (eds), 195–226. Paris-Nanterre: Université Paris X.
Harley, H. 2002. Theta theory and minimalism. Handout from talk at Mayfest. University of
Maryland.
Harley, H. 2004. Merge, conflation and head movement. In Proceedings from NELS 34, K.
Moulton & M. Wolf (eds), 239–254. Amherst MA: GLSA.
Harley, H. 2005. Bare phrase structure, acategorial roots, one-replacement and unaccusativity.
In Harvard Working Papers in Linguistics, Vol. 11, S. Gorbachov & A. Nevins (eds), 59–78.
Cambridge MA: Harvard University.
Harley, H. 2008. The morphology of nominalizations and the syntax of vP. In A. Giannakidou &
M. Rathert (eds). Quantification, Definiteness and Nominalization, 321–343. Oxford: OUP.
Harley, H. 2009. Compounding in distributed morphology. In The Oxford Handbook on Com-
pounding, R. Lieber & P. Štekauer (eds). 129–144. Oxford: OUP.
Harley, H. & Noyer, R. 1998a. Licensing in the non-lexicalist lexicon: Nominalizations, vocabu-
lary items and the encyclopedia. MITWPL 32: 119–138.
Harley, H. & Noyer, R. 1998b. Mixed nominalizations, short verb movement and object shift in
English. In Proceedings of NELS 28, P.N. Tamanji & K. Kusumoto (eds), 143–157. Amherst
MA: GLSA.
Harley, H. & Noyer, R. 1999. Distributed morphology. GLOT 4(4): 3–19.
Harris, J. 1991. The exponence of gender in Spanish. LI 22(1): 2–62.
Hauser, M., Chomsky, N. & Fitch, T. 2002. The faculty of language: what is it, who has it and how
did it evolve? Science 298: 1569–1579. DOI: 10.1126/science.298.5598.1569
Hazout, I. 1995. Action nominalization and the lexicalist hypothesis. NLLT 13(3): 355–404.
Heck, F., Müller, G. & Trommer, J. 2008. A phase-based approach to Scandinavian definiteness
marking. In Proceedings of WCCFL 26, C.B. Chang & H.J. Haynie (eds), 226–233. Somer-
ville MA: Cascadilla.
Herbeck, P. In preparation. The (non-)Existence of Empty Categories. PhD Dissertation. Uni-
versity of Wuppertal.
Heim, I. & Kratzer, A. 1998. Semantics in Generative Grammar. Oxford: Blackwell.
Heycock, C. & Kroch, A. 1999. Pseudocleft conectedness: Implications for the LF interface level.
LI 30: 365–398.
Higginbotham, J. 1986. Linguistic theory and Davidson’s program. In Inquiries into Truth and
Interpretation, E. Lepore (ed.), 29–48. Oxford: OUP.
Hicks, G. 2009. The Derivation of Anaphoric Relations. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI:
10.1075/la.139
Hinzen, W. 2007. An Essay on Naming and Truth. Oxford: OUP.
Hiraiwa, K. 2005. Dimensions of Symmetry in Syntax: Agreement and Clausal Architecture.
PhD dissertation, MIT.
	 References	 
Hollebrandse, B., Hobbs, K., de Villiers, J. & Roeper, T. 2008. Second order embedding and sec-
ond order false belief. In Language Acquisition and Development: Proceedings of GALA
2007, A. Gavano & M.J. Freitas (eds), 270–280. Newcastle: Cambridge Scholars.
Holmberg, A. 1999. Remarks on Holmberg’s generalization. Studia Linguistica 53: 1–39. DOI:
10.1111/1467-9582.00038
Holmberg, A. 2010. Parameters in minimalist theory: The case of Scandinavian. Theoretical
Linguistics 36(1): 1–48. DOI: 10.1515/thli.2010.001
Al-Horais, N. 2007. The categorial status of the small clause node: A minimalist approach.
NDWPL 13: 96–108.
Hornstein, N. 2001. Move! A Minimalist Theory of Construal. Oxford: Blackwell.
Hornstein, N. 2009. Theory of Syntax. Cambridge: CUP.
Hornstein, N. & Nunes, J. 2008. Adjunction, labeling and bare phrase structure. Biolinguistics
2(1): 57–86.
Hornstein, N., Nunes, J. & Grohman, K. 2006. Understanding Minimalism. Cambridge: CUP.
van Hout, A. & Roeper, T. 1998. Events and aspectual structure in derivational morphology.
MITWPL 32: 175–200.
Huang, S.F. 1998. Chinese as a headless language in compounding morphology. In New Ap-
proaches to Chinese Word Formation, J.L. Packard (ed.), 261–283. Berlin: de Gruyter.
Iacobini, C. & Masini, F. 2007. The emergence of verb-particle constructions in Italian: Locative
and actional meanings. Morphology 16: 155–188. DOI: 10.1007/s11525-006-9101-7
Iordăchioaia, G. & Soare, E. 2008. Two kinds of event plurals: Evidence from Romanian nomi-
nalizations. In Empirical Issues in Syntax and Semantics: Papers from CSSP, O. Bonami & P.
Cabredo-Hofherr (eds), 193–217. <http://www.cssp.cnrs.fr/eiss6/index_en.html>
Johns, A. 2009. Additional facts about noun incorporation (in Inuktitut). Lingua 119: 185–198.
DOI: 10.1016/j.lingua.2007.10.009
Johnson, K. 1991. Object positions. NLLT 9(4): 577–636.
Julien, M. 2002. Syntactic Heads and Word Formation. Oxford: OUP.
Kayne, R. 1984. Connectedness and Binary Branching. Dordrecht: Foris.
Kayne, R. 1994. The Antisymmetry of Syntax. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Kayne, R. 2009. Antisymmetry and the lexicon. Linguistic Variation Yearbook 8: 1–31. DOI:
10.1075/livy.8.01kay
Kayne, R. 2010. Why are there no directionality parameters? Ms, NYU.
Keyser, S. & Roeper, T. 1992. Re: The abstract clitic hypothesis. LI 23: 89–125.
Koopman, H. & Szabolsci, A. 2000. Verbal Complexes. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Kratzer, A. 1996. Severing the external argument from its verb. In Phrase Structure and the
Lexicon, J. Rooryck & L. Zaring (eds), 109–137. Dordrecht: Kluwer. DOI: 10.1007/978-94-
015-8617-7_5
Larson, R. & Segal, G. 1995. Knowledge of Meaning: An Introduction to Semantic Theory.
Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Lasnik, H. & Saito, M. 1984. On the nature of proper government. LI 15: 235–289.
Lebeaux, D. 1988. Language Acquisition and the Form of the Grammar. PhD Dissertation, UM-
ass Amherst.
Legate, J.A. 2003. Some interface properties of the phase. LI 34: 506–516.
Liceras, J.M., Días, L. & Salomaa-Robertson, T. 2002. The compounding parameter and the
word-marker hypothesis: Accounting for adult L2 acquisition of Spanish N – N compounds.
InTheAcquisitionofSpanishMorphosyntax,A.T.Pérez-Leroux&J.M.Liceras(eds),209–237.
Dordrecht: Kluwer. DOI: 10.1007/978-94-010-0291-2_8
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Lieber, R. 2005. English word-formation processes: observations, issues and thoughts on future
research. In Handbook of Word-formation, R. Lieber & P. Štekauer (eds), 375–427. Dor-
drecht: Kluwer. DOI: 10.1007/1-4020-3596-9_16.
Longobardi, G. 1996. The syntax of N-raising: A minimalist theory. OTS Working Papers in
Linguistics. 1–56.
Longobardi, G. 2001a. The structure of DPs: Some principles, parameters and problems. In The
Handbook of Contemporary Syntactic Theory, M. Baltin & C. Collins (eds), 562–604. Oxford:
Blackwell. DOI: 10.1002/9780470756416.ch18
Longobardi, G. 2001b. Formal syntax, diachronic minimalism, and etymology: The history of
French chez. LI 32(2): 275–302.
Marantz, A. 1997. No escape from syntax. In Proceedings from the 21st Annual Penn Linguistics
Colloquium, A. Dimitriadis, L. Siegel, C. Surek-Clark & A. Wiliams (eds), 201–225. Phila-
delphia, PA: PWPL.
Marantz, A. 2001. Words. Ms, MIT.
Marantz, A. 2007. Phases and words. Ms, NYU.
Marchand, H. 1969. The Categories and Types of Present-day English Word-formation. München:
Beck.
Marušič, F.L. 2005. On Non-simultaneous Phases. PhD Dissertation, Stony Brook University.
Massam, D. 2001. Pseudo noun incorporation in Niuean. NLLT 19: 153–197.
Massam, D. 2009. Existential incorporation constructions. Lingua 119: 166–184. DOI: 10.1016/j.
lingua.2007.10.011
Mateu, J. 2002. Argument structure. Relational construal at the syntax-semantics interface. Dis-
sertation. Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona.
Mateu, J. & Rigau, G. 2010. Verb particle constructions in Romance: a lexical-syntactic account.
Probus 22: 241–269.
Matushansky, O. 2005. Going through a phase. In Perspectives on phases, M. McGinnis & N.
Richards (eds), 157–181. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Matushansky, O. 2006. Head movement in linguistic theory. LI 37(1): 69–109.
Matushansky, O. 2007a. What’s in a name. Handout from talk at PALMYR: Paris.
Matushansky, O. 2007b. Predication and escape hatches in phase extension theory. Theoretical
Linguistics 33(1): 93–104. DOI: 10.1515/TL.2007.007
May, R. 1985. Logical Form. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Miyoshi, N. 1999. Compounds and complex predicates: Japanese evidence for a ‘global’ param-
eter. In Proceedings from the Boston Conference on Language Development 23, A. Greenhill,
H. Littlefield & C. Tano (eds), 453–461. Somerville MA: Cascadilla.
Moro, A. 1995. Topics in small clauses with predicative nominals. In Small Clauses, A. Cardina-
letti & M.T. Guasti (eds), 109–132. New York: Academic Press.
Moro, A. 1997. The Raising of Predicates: Predicative Noun Phrases and the Theory of Clause
Structure. Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511519956
Moro, A. 2000. Dynamic Antisymmetry. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Moro, A. 2007. Some Notes on Unstable Structures. Ms, Vita Salute San Rafaelle University.
Moro, A. 2009. Rethinking symmetry: A note on labeling and the EPP. Snippets 19: 17–18.
Müller, G. 1996. A constraint on remnant movement. NLLT 14: 355–407.
Müller, G. 2004. Verb-second as vP-first. Journal of comparative Germanic linguistics 7: 179–234.
DOI: 10.1023/B:JCOM.0000016453.71478.3a
Müller, G. 2010. On deriving CED effects from the PIC. LI 41(1): 35–82.
	 References	 
Müller, G. & Heck, F. 2008. Derivational optimization of wh-movement. Linguistic Analysis 33:
97–148.
Mukai, M. 2004. Headedness of compound words in a minimalist framework. Ms, University of
Durham.
Narita, H. 2009. Full interpretation of optimal labeling. Biolinguistics 3(2–3): 213–254.
Narita, H. 2011. Phasing-in full interpretation. Ms, Harvard.
Nilsen, O. 2003. Eliminating Positions: Syntax and Semantics of Sentence Modification. PhD
dissertation, University of Utrecht.
Nübling, D. & Szczepaniak, R. 2009. Religion+s+freiheit, Stabilität+s+pakt und Subjekt+s+ pro-
nomen: Fugenelemente als Marker phonologischer Wortgrenzen. In Studien zur Fremd-
wortbildung, P.O. Müller (ed.), 195–222. Zürich: Georg Olms.
Nübling, D. & Szczepaniak, R. 2010. Was erklärt die Diachronie für die Synchronie der deutschen
Gegenwartssprache? Am Beispiel schwankender Fugenelemente. In Perspektiven der ger-
manistischen Sprachgeschichtsforschung, H.U. Schmid (ed.), 205–224. Berlin: De Gruyter.
DOI: 10.1515/9783110236606.205
Nübling, D. & Szczepaniak, R. 2011. Merkmal(s?)analyse, Seminar(s?)arbeit und Essen(s?)aus-
gabe: Zweifelsfälle der Verfugung als Indikatoren für sprachlichen Wandel. Zeitschrift für
Sprachwissenschaft 30: 45–72. DOI: 10.1515/zfsw.2011.002
Nunes, J. 2004. Linearization of chains and sideward movement. Cambridge MA: MIT Press.
Ott, D. 2008. Notes on noun ph (r)ases. Ms, Harvard.
Parrot, J. 2001. A morphological theory of head movement. Ms, Georgetown University.
Parsons, T. 1990. Events in the Semantics of English. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Pereltsvaig, A. 2001. On the Nature of Intra-clausal Relations: A Study of Copular Sentences in
Russian and Italian. PhD dissertation, McGill University.
Pesetsky, D. & Torrego, E. 2006. Probes, goals, and the nature of syntactic categories. In Proceed-
ings of the Seventh Tokyo Conference on Psycholinguistics, Y. Otsu (ed.), 25–60. Tokyo: Hituzi
Syobo.
Pesetsky, D. & Torrego, E. 2007. The syntax of valuation and the interpretability of features. In
Phrasal and Clausal Architecture, S. Karimi, V. Samiian & W.K. Wilkins (eds), 262–294.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Pietroski, P. 2002. Function and concatenation. In Logical Form, G. Preyer & G. Peters (eds),
91–117. Oxford: OUP.
Pietroski, P. 2005. Events and Semantic Interpretation. Oxford: OUP.
Pietroski, P. 2006. Interpreting concatenation and concatenates. Philosophical Issues 16: 221–245.
DOI: 10.1111/j.1533-6077.2006.00111.x
Pietroski, P. & Hornstein, N. 2009. Basic operations. Catalan Journal of Linguistics 8: 113–139.
Poletto, C. & Pollock, Y.I. 2004. On the left periphery of some Romance wh-questions. In The
Structure of IP and CP, L. Rizzi (ed.), 251–269. Oxford: OUP.
Pollock, Y.I. 2006. Subject clitics and complement inversion. In The Blackwell Companion to
Syntax, Vol. IV., M. Everaert & H. van Riemsdijk (eds), 601–659. Oxford: Blackwell. DOI:
10.1002/9780470996591.ch67
Pustejovsky, J. 1995. The generative lexicon. Cambridge MA: MIT Press.
Pylkkänen,L.2000.Derivingadversity.InProceedingsofWCCFL19,R.Billery&B.D.Lillehaugen
(eds), 399–410. Somerville MA: Cascadilla.
Pylkkänen, L. 2002. Introducing Arguments. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Radford, A. 1997. Syntactic Theory and the Structure of English: A Minimalist Approach.
Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9781139166706
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Radford, A. 2004. Minimalist Syntax: Exploring the Structure of English. Cambridge: CUP. DOI:
10.1017/CBO9780511811319
Ralli, A. 1992. Compounding in modern Greek. Rivista di Linguistica 4(1): 143–174.
Ralli, A. 2008. Compound markers and parametric variation. Language Typology and Universals
61(1): 19–38. DOI: 10.1524/stuf.2008.0004
Ramchand, G. 2008. Verb Meaning and the Lexicon: A First-phase Syntax. Cambridge: CUP.
DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511486319
Rauh, G. 1997a. Englische Präpositionen zwischen lexikalischen und funktionalen Kategorien.
In Lexikalische Kategorien und Merkmale, E. Löbel & G. Rauh (eds), 125–167. Tübingen:
Niemeyer.
Rauh, G. 1997b. Lokale Präpositionen und referentielle Argumente. Linguistische Berichte 171:
415–442.
Rauh, G. 1999. Adverb oder Präposition? Von der Notwendigkeit einer Abgrenzung von
Wortarten und grammatischen Kategorien und der Gefahr einer terminologischen Falle. In
Florilegium Linguisticum. Festschrift für Wolfgang P. Schmid zum 70. Geburtstag, E. Eggers,
J. Becker, J. Udolph & D. Weber (eds), 367–392. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Rauh, G. 2002. Prepositions, features and projections. In Perspectives on Prepositions, H.
Cuyckens & P. Radden (eds), 3–23. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Rauh, G. 2010. Syntatic Categories: Their Identification and Description in Linguistic Theories.
Oxford: OUP.
Richards, M.D. 2007. On feature inheritance: And argument from the phase impenetrability
condition. LI 38: 563–572.
Richards, M.D. 2010. Deriving the edge: What’s in a phase? Syntax 14(1): 75–95.
Richards, M.D. 2012. No phase is an island (?): An attempt to constrain internal ‘free merge’ via
the edge feature. Handout from talk at syntax seminar. University of Frankfurt.
Ritter, E. 1991. Two functional categories in noun phrases: evidence from modern Hebrew. In
Perspectives on Phrase Structure, S. Rothstein (ed.), 37–62. New York NY: Academic Press.
Rizzi, L. 1997. The fine structure of the left periphery. In Elements of Grammar, L. Haegeman
(ed.), 281–337. Dordrecht: Kluwer. DOI: 10.1007/978-94-011-5420-8_7
Roberts, I. 2005. Principles and Parameters in a VSO Language: A Case Study in Welsh. Oxford:
OUP. DOI: 10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195168211.001.0001
Roberts, I. 2010. Agreement and Head Movement: Clitics, Incorporation and Defective Goals.
Cambridge MA: The MIT Press. DOI: 10.7551/mitpress/9780262014304.001.0001
Roberts, I. 2011a. Head movement and the minimalist program. In The Oxford Handbook of
Minimalism, C. Boeckx (ed.), 195–219. Oxford: OUP.
Roberts, I. 2011b. Parametric hierarchies: some observations. Handout from talk at Workshop
on Formal Grammar and Syntactic Variation. Universidad Autónoma de Madrid.
Roeper, T. 1987. Implicit arguments and the head-complement relation. LI 18: 267–310.
Roeper, T. 1993. Explicit syntax in the lexicon: The representation of nominalizations. In Seman-
tics and the Lexicon, J. Pustejovsky (ed.), 185–220. Dordrecht: Kluwer. DOI: 10.1007/978-
94-011-1972-6_11
Roeper, T. 1999. Leftward movement in morphology. MITWPL 34: 35–66.
Roeper, T. 2005. Chomsky’s Remarks and the transformationalist hypothesis. In Handbook of
Word-formation, R. Lieber & P. Štekauer (eds), 125–144. Dordrecht: Kluwer. DOI:
10.1007/1-4020-3596-9_6
Roeper, T. 2007. The Prism of Grammar. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Roeper, T. In preparation. Vacate Phase.
	 References	 
Roeper, T. & Siegel, M. 1978. A lexical transformation for verbal compounds. LI 9: 199–260.
Roeper, T. & van Hout, A. 1999. The impact of nominalization on passive, -able and middle:
Burzio’s generalization and feature-movement in the lexicon. MITWPL 35:185-211.
Roeper, T., Snyder, W. & Hiramatsu, K. 2002. Learnability in a minimalist framework: Root
compounds, merger and the syntax-morphology interface. In The Process of Language Ac-
quisition, I. Lasser (ed.), 25–35. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Roeper, T. & Snyder, W. 2005. Language learnability and the forms of recursion. In UG and Ex-
ternal Systems, A.M. Di Sciullo (ed.), 155–169. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Roeper, T. & Hollebrandse, B. Forthcoming. Recursion and propositional exclusivity. Ms. UMass
Amherst & University of Groningen.
Rothstein, S. 2000. Predicates and their Subjects. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Roodenburg, J. 2006. The role of number within nominal arguments. Handout from talk at 36th
Linguistic Symposium on Romance Languages. Rutgers University, NJ.
Samuels, B. 2008. The Structure of Phonological Theory. PhD dissertation, Harvard University.
Sauerland, U. & Elbourne, P. 2002. Total reconstruction, PF-movement and derivational order.
LI 33: 283–319.
Scalise, S. 1986. Generative Morphology. Dordrecht: Foris. DOI: 10.1515/9783110877328
Scalise, S. 1992. Compounding in Italian. Rivista di Linguistica 4(1): 175–200.
Scalise, S. & Guevara, E. 2005. The lexicalist approach to word-formation and the notion of the
lexicon. In Handbook of Word-formation, R. Lieber & P. Štekauer (eds), 147–187. Dor-
drecht: Kluwer. DOI: 10.1007/1-4020-3596-9_7
Schein, B. 1993. Plurals and Events. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Schorlemmer, E. & Temmermann, T. 2011. Head movement as a PF-phenomenon. Evidence
from identity under ellipsis. Handout from talk at WCCFL 29. University of Arizona.
Selkirk, L. 1982. The Syntax of Words. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Sheehan, M. & Hinzen, W. 2011. PF-parameters and clausal/nominal denotation. Handout from
talk at Workshop on Formal Grammar and Syntactic Variation. Universidad Autónoma de
Madrid.
Sichel, I. 2009. New evidence for the structural realization of the implicit external argument in
nominalizations. LI 40(4): 712–723.
Sichel, I. 2010. Towards a typology of control in DP. In Movement Theory of Control, M. Polinski
& N. Hornstein (eds), 245–266. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Siegel, L. 1997. Gerundive nominals and the role of aspect. In Proceedings of the Fourteenth
Eastern States Conference on Linguistics, J. Austin & A. Lawson (eds), 170–179. Ithaca NY:
CLC Publications.
Slabakova, R. 1999. The complex predicate/N – N compounding relation in L2 acquisition. In
Proceedings from the Boston Conference on Language Development 23, A. Greenhill, H. Lit-
tlefield & C. Tano (eds), 642–653. Somerville MA: Cascadilla.
Snyder, W. 1995. Language Acquisition and Language Variation: The Role of Morphology. PhD
dissertation, MIT.
Snyder, W. 2001. On the nature of syntactic variation: Evidence from complex predicates and
word-formation. Language 77: 324–342. DOI: 10.1353/lan.2001.0108
Snyder, W. & Chen, D. 1997. The syntax-morphology interface in the acquisition of French and
English. In K Kusumoto (ed.). Proceedings of NELS 27. Amherst MA: GSLA.
Snyder, W. & Stromswold, K. 1997. The structure and acquisition of English dative construc-
tions. LI 28: 281–317.
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
Spencer, A. 1991. Morphological Theory: An Introduction to Word Structure in Generative Gram-
mar. Oxford: Blackwell.
Stabler,E.1998.Acquiringlanguageswithoutmovement.Syntax1(1):72–97.DOI:10.1111/1467-
9612.00004
Starke, M. 2010. Nanosyntax: A short primer to a new approach to language. Nordlyd 36(1): 1–6.
Stroik, T. 2009. Locality in Minimalist Syntax. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press. DOI: 10.7551/
mitpress/9780262012928.001.0001
Svenonius, P. 2003. Limits on P: Filling in holes vs. falling in holes. Nordlyd 31(2): 431–445.
Svenonius, P. 2004. On the edge. In Peripheries: Syntactic Edges and their Effects, D. Adger, C. de
Cat & G. Tsoulas (eds). 261–287. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Sugisaki, K. & Isobe, M. 2000. Resultative result from the compounding parameter: On the
acquisitional correlation between resultatives and N – N compounds in Japanese. In Pro-
ceedings of WCCFL 19, R. Billery & B.D. Lillehaugen (eds), 493–506. Somerville MA:
Cascadilla.
Talmy, L. 2000. Towards a Cognitive Semantics. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Takano, Y. 2000. Illicit remnant movement. LI 31: 141–156.
Travis, L. 1984. Parameters and Effects of Word Order Variation. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Uriagereka, J. 1998. Rhyme and Reason. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Uriagereka, J. 1999. Multiple spell-out. In Working Minimalism, S. Epstein & N. Hornstein (eds),
251–282. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Uriagereka, J. 2008. Syntactic Anchors. Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511481482
Vincente, L. 2007. The Syntax of Heads and Phrases. A Study of Verb (Phrase) Fronting. PhD
dissertation, Unversity of Leiden.
Wassow, T. 1977. Transformations and the lexicon. In Formal Syntax, P. Culicover; T. Wassow &
A. Akmajian (eds), 327–360. New York NY: Academic Press.
Wiese, R. 1996. The phonology of German. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Williams, E. 1980. Predication. LI 11: 203–238.
Williams, E. 1981. Argument structure and morphology. The Linguistic Review 1: 81–114. DOI:
10.1515/tlir.1981.1.1.81
Zeller, J. 2001. Particle Verbs and Local Domains. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/
la.41
Zhang, N. 2007. Root merger in Chinese compounds. Studia Linguistica 61(2): 170–184. DOI:
10.1111/j.1467-9582.2007.00131.x
Zwarts, J. 1992. X’-syntax – X’-semantics. The interpretation of functional and lexical heads.
Utrecht: LEd.
Index
A
abstract clitic hypothesis  xi,
47, 48
abstract clitic position  xi, 25, 49
adjunction  13–18, 26, 87, 171, 191,
193, 200, 254, 257, 287
agree  10, 11, 85, 88–91, 182, 184,
190, 197, 253, 259, 265, 276, 277,
279, 285
antisymmetry  72, 97, 128, 151,
155–158, 199, 240, 248
applicatives  169, 170
AS-nominal  105, 112
aspectual modification  102, 239
B
backward
pronominalization  203
bare copula small clause  109,
127–132, 138, 153–155, 178–181,
187, 189, 192–194
bare phrase structure  xi, 14
believe type small clause  174,
179, 181, 183, 184, 189, 293
boundedness  115, 134, 162
breakable compound  86, 87
C
canonical small clause  179
Case-feature  97, 109
categorizing head  62–64, 68, 84,
85, 95, 117, 122
causative constructions  185
clitic doubling  60
compositionality  35, 38, 58, 95
concatenation  4, 6, 7, 13
conflation  19, 88, 89, 92, 94, 119
D
declension class  73, 74, 78–82,
283
defective goal  87, 88, 258, 260,
262, 265, 283
defectiveness  88, 89, 91, 258,
279, 280, 282, 283
directionality parameter  201,
203
distributive morphology  xi
double object constructions  60,
61, 174, 176
double probing  11
drift  28, 30, 32, 68, 93
E
*Enter phase  171, 236, 240–242,
246, 247, 250
empty category principle  xi
endocentricity  256
equative construction  188
exceptional case marking  xi
excorporation  260, 261, 265
exocentric compound  65
extended projection
principle  xi
F
feature driven movement  256
feature inheritance  110, 111, 114,
118, 119, 151, 158, 248, 273, 274,
276–278, 288
feature percolation  206, 241
first order embedding  35–37
first sister principle  155, 173, 237,
240, 242
forward pronominalization  203
FP projection  85–87, 95, 193,
194, 203, 206, 208, 210
free relative  189
full interpretation  xi, 197, 204,
205, 277
G
genitive case  42, 43, 228, 284
German  21–28, 30, 32–44, 46,
47, 53, 54, 56–61, 67–69, 71, 74,
78–81, 84, 92–94, 96, 101, 102,
128, 130, 133, 135, 143–169, 243,
284, 288
Germanic  21–25, 27, 35, 46, 47,
52, 53, 58, 60, 72–77, 81–83, 133
H
head movement  260
homophony  232
h-α schema  64, 171, 197, 206,
209–216, 218–220, 222,
224–226, 228–230, 234–242,
245, 249, 250, 263, 266–268
I
idiosyncrasy  24, 34, 54, 57
inclusiveness condition  xi, 6,
204, 205, 259
incorporation  17, 21, 71, 83,
86–94, 109, 110, 113, 119, 124,
125, 127–132, 142, 151–153, 155,
157, 158, 168, 169, 173, 203, 218,
237–242, 246, 247, 252, 257–
262, 265, 282, 283, 287–289
inflection(al marking)  23,
25–31, 33, 35, 38, 40, 46, 54, 55,
57, 63, 65, 68–69, 92, 95–97,
99, 153
inherent case  114, 118, 140, 168,
169, 284
inner aspect  135
inner morphology  67, 68, 284
internal merge  xi, 6, 9, 198
inverse small clause/
inversion  191, 193, 198, 202,
205, 210, 214, 223, 227, 232,
236, 259–261, 305–306
Italian  22, 25, 42, 43, 52, 59, 60,
74, 82, 181–183, 185, 186, 194
iteration  36, 206
K
kind interpretation  86, 127, 128,
130, 132, 142, 166, 169
L
labeling algorithm  9–11, 14
language variation  17, 25, 47,
133, 288
leftward building structures  48,
49, 51, 55, 58, 71, 86, 88
	 Symmetry Breaking in Syntax and the Lexicon
leftward movement  49, 55, 71,
86, 88
lexical array  268–270, 275–278
lexicalization  22, 28, 68, 81
LF-interface  8
linear correspondence
axiom  xi, 72
linking element  xi, 24, 35, 44, 45
look ahead  76, 83
M
meaningless category  192–194
methodological minimalism  2
microparameter  24
minimal category  87, 257, 258,
262
minimal link condition  xi
M-merger  253–258, 260
multiple insertion  125
multiple specifiers  198, 276
multiple wh-fronting  219,
228–231, 290
N
nominalized infinitive  134, 144,
148–150, 156, 157, 159, 165, 169
no tampering condition  217
Number (feature)  74, 76
O
Occam’s razor  2, 278
of-insertion  112–114, 127, 132,
140, 168
outer aspect  134, 135, 138, 150,
169
outer morphology  67, 122, 123,
284
outer aspect  135
P
pair merge  11, 14–16, 200–201,
275–279
pairwise composition  275, 276,
278, 279
parallel merge  72, 74, 76–78, 83
parameterization  147
passivization  239
PF-interface  8
phase extension  190–192,
194–196, 198, 213, 215, 241,
249, 252
phase sliding  19, 117
phase impenetrability
condition  xi, 10, 197, 275
pluralized event  106
p-merge  200–202
point of symmetry  xi, 16, 17, 26,
72, 248
predication  18, 171, 174, 175, 178,
179, 185, 187, 189–192, 196, 197,
202, 204, 211, 218, 240, 241,
249, 289, 290
productivity  26, 35, 38, 92
propositionality  196, 271, 275,
277, 278
pro-predicate  188–190
pseudoclefts  188–190
Q
quale structure  75, 78
R
recursion  26, 35–37, 54, 74,
82, 83
reduced relative  188, 189
reflexives  144, 156, 157, 159, 165,
167
Relator phrase/head  179,
185–196, 202, 205, 211, 215,
249, 250
remnant movement  19, 86, 195,
253, 266–268
resultatives  204
resumptive do  243
rightward building
structures  48
R-nominal  104, 105
roll-up movement  111
Romance  21–23, 25, 35, 42, 43,
46, 47, 51, 52, 58–61, 72–78, 82,
83, 87, 88, 95, 133, 265
Romanian  101, 133–135, 140,
148–150, 169, 288
root compounding
parameter  xi, 24, 47, 53, 59
root root merger  263
Russian  24, 231–236
S
sentential modifier  115, 121, 131,
146, 162, 168, 169
simplify  xi
small clause island  173, 238,
239, 240
specific interpretation  127, 130,
142, 166
strongest minimalist thesis  xi, 2
structural case  43, 89, 91, 92,
284
subextraction  219, 228–231,
233–236, 238, 239, 250, 290
subset relation  89
sucessive cyclic head
movement  252, 260, 265, 267,
289, 299, 300
superiotity effects  233, 235, 236
supine form  133, 134, 148
T
telicity  115, 117–120, 131, 134,
148, 161
third factor  2
transfer  8–10, 73, 101, 102, 117,
196, 207–209, 211, 212, 214,
219, 221, 227, 244, 248, 263,
265, 271–273, 276, 277, 281
U
uncategorized root  129, 284,
288
V
vacate phase  171, 247, 248, 250
vacuous movement  86, 252,
261, 265
valuation  5, 11, 12, 15, 17, 91, 94,
110, 111, 113, 117, 192, 272, 273,
276, 277, 279, 280
verb particle constructions  171,
173, 174–179, 181, 183, 245
X
XP-XP merger  263
