16 Rationale
wh-pronouns, gapping, right node raising, standard and transparent free
relatives, serial verbs, and they are illustrated in (33a–f).
(33) a. What and why did John eat? wh&wh questions
b. John writes poems and Mary short stories. gapping
c. John wrote and Mary reviewed an article on
multidominance. right node raising
d. John reads whatever Mary writes. standard free relatives
e. John wrote what some might call a poem. transparent free relatives
f. ò dà sε la nεnè ɔ
`ɔ
`. Dàgááré serial verbs
3sg past roast fem meat eat
‘He roasted the meat and ate it.’ (Hiraiwa and Bodomo 2008:243)
Chapter 4 “Symmetric Move”turns to the evidence for symmetric move-
ment, i.e. a type of movement that can target two elements in a given struc-
ture with equally grammatical results. Passive movement in double object
constructions provides a good testing ground; since there are two objects,
there are two candidates for movement. In some languages, passive move-
ment is a symmetric operation in that it can target either the direct or the
indirect object, whereas in others it is an asymmetric operation in that it
can target only one of them. This variation has been studied quite a bit
and attributed either to various ways of circumventing a locality violation
(such as the availability of the word order in which the direct object pre-
cedes the indirect one, either via base-generation or movement) or to case
properties of the two objects (and various patterns of case absorption in
passives). What I argue for in this chapter is that we need both types of
account to reach empirical adequacy.
Chapter 5 “Symmetric labels” gives arguments in favor of the existence
of symmetric labels in the grammar. It also establishes a need for labels
in the grammar. There are two ways a label can be symmetric – if both
merged elements project as the label, or if neither of them does (as argued
by Collins 2002, Seely 2006, among others). This chapter focuses on the
former case – symmetric labels in which both constituents project – and
argues that this is what is involved in the derivation of certain types of serial
verb constructions, nominal copular constructions and comparative cor-
relatives.
By the end of Chapter 5 I hope to convince the reader that symmetry
does exist in the domain of the three basic syntactic mechanisms: Merge,
Move, and Labeling. Chapter 6 “Conclusion” offers a brief summary and
some general thoughts on the nature and origin of symmetry (and asym-
metry) in the grammar.
17
2 Asymmetry in syntax
2.1 Introduction
In this chapter, I take a step back and review the reasons behind the claim
that syntactic structures, operations and relationships are fundamentally
asymmetric. This claim has been articulated in various ways by various
researchers: as the Antisymmetry Theory of Kayne (1994), the Dynamic
Antisymmetry Theory of Moro (2000) or the Asymmetry Theory of Di
Sciullo (2005). I focus on the asymmetric properties of Merge, Move
and Labeling, as these are the mechanisms I take on in the chapters that
follow. I proceed as follows. In Sections 2.2–2.4, I review Kayne’s (1994)
Antisymmetry Theory, Moro’s (2000) Dynamic Antisymmetry Theory
and Di Sciullo’s (2005) Asymmetry Theory (which all take asymmetric
structures and mechanisms to be the norm). In Sections 2.5–2.6, I discuss
two constructions that were analyzed as symmetric in the early days of gen-
erative grammar and have since been reanalyzed as asymmetric. The two
are coordinate structures and double object constructions. In Section 2.7,
I turn to the asymmetric properties of Move, focusing on locality consid-
erations. And finally, in Section 2.8, I discuss the asymmetry of existing
labeling algorithms.
2.2 Antisymmetry Theory
Kayne’s (1994) Linear Correspondence Axiom, stated formally in (1a) and
more informally in (1b), only allows structures with asymmetric c-com-
mand relationships between non-terminal nodes. As a consequence, it
derives precedence from asymmetric c-command; if one node asymmetri-
cally c-commands another node in a tree, the terminal nodes dominated
by the first node will precede the terminal nodes dominated by the second
one.1
18 Asymmetry in syntax
(1) a. d(A) is a linear ordering of T. (Kayne 1994:6)
b. Let X, Y be nonterminals and x, y terminals such that X dominates
x and Y dominates y. Then, if X asymmetrically c-commands Y, x
precedes y.
The LCA excludes structures in which non-terminal nodes are in a
symmetric c-command relationship on the grounds that they violate one
(or more) of the three requirements on linear ordering: transitivity, totality
and antisymmetry, defined in (2a–c). R here stands for precedence but it
can refer to any relationship between two elements in a set.2
(2) a. it is transitive (xRy & yRz → xRz)
b. it is total (for all distinct x, y, either xRy or yRx)
c. it is antisymmetric (not (xRy & yRx))
To illustrate, let us consider a schematic tree representation given in (3a),
with its A given in (3b) and its d(A) given in (3c). The resulting ordering
is transitive, total and antisymmetric. Thus it satisfies all the requirements
linear ordering has to satisfy. Note that because of the segment/category
distinction, the lower E in (3a) does not c-command A. If it did, the ter-
minals of the lower E would end up both preceding and following the
terminals of A, in violation of antisymmetry.
(3) a. E
E
D
C
B
A
a
b
c
b. A = { <A,B>, <A,D>, <A,C>, <B,C>}
c. d(A) = { <a,b>, <b,c>, <a,c> }
In X-bar theoretical terms, (3a) represents an asymmetric specifier-head-
complement structure. Examples of symmetric structures excluded by the
LCA are given in (4a–c), with the problematic nodes indicated in bold.3
(4a) cannot be linearized because of the symmetric c-command between X
and Z. This means that no order can be established between x and z, which
violates the totality requirement on linear order. (4b) is excluded for similar
reasons. Since X1
and X2
c-command each other, no ordering can be estab-
lished between their respective terminals, x1
and x2
. (4c) and (4d), in which
YP and XP c-command each other, are excluded for the same reasons.
2.2 Antisymmetry Theory 19
(4) a. XP
XP
YP
Y
y x z
X Z
b.
XP
ZP
Z
Y
y
z X1 X2
x2
x1
YP
c.
XP
XP
Z
Z
Y
ZP
YP
z
z
y
d. ZP
ZP
YP
XP
WP
W
ZP
Y
X
Z
x
y z
w
The ban on symmetric structures in the grammar can thus be attributed
to the Linear Correspondence Axiom. A potential issue here concerns
the compatibility of the LCA with the minimalist Bare Phrase Structure
Theory of Chomsky (1994), in which Merge is the sole operation respon-
sible for structure building. Merge creates structures of the kind given in
(5a), rather than the “exploded” ones given in (5b), which the original
formulation of the LCA relied upon.
20 Asymmetry in syntax
(5) a.
y
z
x
x
x b. XP
X
Z
Y’
Y
Z
y
z
x
X
YP
ZP
This is not an insurmountable problem. Chomsky (1995) takes the LCA
to be compatible with core minimalist assumptions (and highly desir-
able given the Strong Minimalist Thesis), and suggests various ways
to remedy this problem. One possibility is to reanalyze the symmetric
portion of the tree as a morphological word, immune from the effects of
the LCA. Alternatively, the complement of x in (5a) could itself be a more
complex category, headed by a null projection. Kayne (2008), following
Guimarães (2000), makes a similar suggestion and assumes that one of
the two problematic elements can undergo self-Merge first, which yields
a more complex object ({x} rather than x). This has essentially the same
effect; it makes one of the problematic objects more complex. Yet another
possibility would be for one of the problematic elements in (5a) to become
invisible to the LCA in the course of the derivation, either through move-
ment or ellipsis. This solution relies on the idea that the LCA, being a
principle of linearization, only needs to apply at the level relevant for
linearization, namely the level of Spell-Out. On this view, the grammar
can generate symmetric structures as long as they become linearizable
by the time of Spell-Out. Chomsky departs in this respect from Kayne
(1994), for whom the LCA is an overarching principle of the grammar
applying at all levels. This is also the basic insight behind Moro’s (2000)
dynamic approach to antisymmetry, the details of which I discuss in the
next section.
2.3 Dynamic Antisymmetry Theory
Moro’s (2000) Dynamic Antisymmetry Theory allows symmetric struc-
tures, which he dubs points of symmetry as long as these points of sym-
metry are destroyed during the derivation. Moro focuses on three kinds
2.3 Dynamic Antisymmetry 21
of symmetric structures: small clauses, multiple specifiers and clitic com-
plementation structures, illustrated in (6a–c) respectively. In all three of
them, the elements that stand in a symmetric c-command relationship are
represented in bold.
(6) a. small clauses4
XP
YP ZP
b. multiple specifiers
ZP
YP
XP
XP
XP
c. clitic adjunction
XP
X0
Y0
(Moro 2000:32)
An issue that is somewhat tangential for our purposes but that plays an
important role in Moro’s theory concerns motivation for movement.
For Moro, movement is driven by purely architectural considerations,
i.e. by the need to break symmetry in the structure, not by the need to
check uninterpretable features. This is a very strong, explicit, and inno-
vative proposal, whose empirical consequences are quite clear. If true, it
means that all moved elements have to involve a symmetric structure at
the point of first Merge. Otherwise, there would be no need for them to
move. The burden of proof is in the details; a cursory look at a couple of
paradigmatic cases of movement – subject raising in (7a), wh-movement
in (7b) and head movement in (7c) – shows no points of symmetry prior to
movement.5
(7) a. TP
DPi
T
T
T vP
v
v VP
ti
22 Asymmetry in syntax
b.
TP
DP
C
CP
C
T vP
v
v
V
V
VP
tj
WHj
tj
c.
DP
VP
Vi
D
DP
NP
vP
v
v
v ti
Furthermore, if elimination of symmetry were the only motivation for
movement (and the need to check (and delete) uninterpretable features
were never an issue), we would expect a certain amount of optionality in
the grammar, which we do not find. For example, we would expect either
verb movement or wh-movement to be possible in (7b), since either would
satisfy the need to “destroy the point of symmetry,” to use Moro’s terms.
Part of Moro’s conceptual motivation for viewing movement as a sym-
metry-breaking phenomenon comes from the desire to rid the grammar
of feature-driven movement. However, it is not clear how landing sites
would be determined if formal features were not involved at all. As far
as symmetry-breaking goes, movement to any position (as long as this
position itself is not part of a symmetric configuration) should be fine.
The two parts of the Dynamic Antisymmetry proposal, letting some
amount of symmetry into the grammar and motivating movement by the
need to break this symmetry, are in principle independent. The first part
strikes me as generally plausible, and the discussion of symmetric Merge
in Chapter 3 rests on the same idea. The second part faces three prob-
lems that I have just pointed out: it requires otherwise unmotivated new
2.4 Asymmetry Theory 23
movement configurations, it predicts optionality that we do not find, and
it has nothing to say about potential landing sites. These are the reasons
I maintain a more “conservative” approach to movement, in which it is
driven by the need to eliminate uninterpretable features, even if such fea-
tures are an imperfection in the system from the perspective of the Strong
Minimalist Thesis.
2.4 Asymmetry Theory
Di Sciullo’s (2005) Asymmetry Theory extends many of the ideas discussed
above to the morphological component. Even though our focus here is on
symmetry (and somewhat indirectly, on asymmetry) in syntax, not mor-
phology, and a complete discussion of Di Sciullo’s theory would take us
too far off course, let me highlight its most relevant aspects. The main
thesis is given in (8).6
(8) Strict Asymmetry of Morphology (Di Sciullo 2005:13)
Morphology combines and manipulates asymmetric relations only.
A very straightforward illustration comes from restrictions on morpheme
ordering illustrated in (9a–c). (9a) shows that affixes and roots do not
invert, (9b) shows that the order of affixes is fixed, and (9c) shows that the
order within compounds is fixed as well.
(9) a. write-er / # er-write
b. comput-er-ize / # comput-ize-er
c. elephant man / # man elephant (Di Sciullo 2005:13–14)
To capture these asymmetries, Di Sciullo assumes that the most basic
morphological object is an asymmetric minimal tree, which is a tree with
exactly one head, one specifier and one complement. Different types of
affixes can occupy different positions in such a morphological tree; some
are specifiers and others heads.
(10) a. x
x
x β
dis-
b. x
x
β
α
− ed
Such minimal morphological trees can undergo three operations: M-Shift,
M-Link and M-Flip. M-Shift combines two trees by substituting one
into the complement of the other. M-Link establishes a featural relation
24 Asymmetry in syntax
between two objects in a single tree that stand in an asymmetric c-com-
mand relationship. And M-Flip takes one tree and creates a mirror image
of it. Interestingly, M-Flip is a paradigmatic example of the reflection
symmetry introduced in Chapter 1.
(11) M-Flip (T) (Di Sciullo 2005:33)
Given a minimal tree such that the Spec of T has no PF features,
M-Flip (T) is the tree obtained by creating a mirror image of T.
(12) a. x
α x
x β
FLIP
b.
Di Sciullo gives three reasons why we need M-Flip. First, it can account
for the fact that the linear order of affixes does not always reflect their
scope. Words like unreadable illustrate this mismatch.
(13) a. un- > read > -able linear scope at PF
b. un- > able- > read affixal scope at LF (Di Sciullo 2005:128)
Second, M-Flip can capture the effects of head movement (without requir-
ing actual movement). The result of Y to X head movement in (14a) is not
(14b) but (14c).
(14) a. b. c.
X
α X
X Y
β Y
Y δ
X
α X
X Y
Yi X β Y
ti δ
X
X α
Y X
Y β
δ Y
(Di Sciullo 2005:132)
And third, M-Flip is involved in the derivation of deverbal compounds
such as spellchecker, in which the order of constituent parts mirrors their
argument structure:
x
x α
β x
2.5 Coordination 25
(15) a. b.
α
er
β
check
χ
spell δ
α
er
β
check
χ
δ spell
(Di Sciullo 2005:140)
The upshot of the discussion in this section (combined with the results of
the previous two sections) is that the grammar either does not allow sym-
metric structures at all or allows them only to a very limited degree. From
the perspective of the Antisymmetry Theory, the primary reason for this
prohibition is linearization. In the next two sections, I add more empirical
content to this claim and discuss two constructions (coordinate structures
and double objects) that in the early days of generative grammar were ana-
lyzed as symmetric and have since been reanalyzed as asymmetric. The
reason I choose these two has to do with the empirical content of the rest
of the book. The discussion of symmetric Merge in Chapter 3 relies on
the asymmetric approach to coordination, and the discussion of symmetric
Move in Chapter 4 relies on the asymmetric structure for double object
constructions. In general, I hope to show that reanalyzing double objects
and coordinate structures in an asymmetric fashion does not warrant
the conclusion that the grammar does not allow symmetric structures of
any sort.
2.5 Coordination
Early accounts assigned coordinate structures a ternary branching struc-
ture with a symmetric c-command (i.e. mutual c-command) between the
two conjuncts, as shown in (16).
(16) XP
XP Conj XP
However, it has since been shown that the relationship between the two
conjuncts has to be asymmetric instead (see Progovac 1998a and 1998b
for a summary). First, the conjunction and forms a constituent with the
second conjunct. This is shown, for example, by the fact that there is a
26 Asymmetry in syntax
natural pause (indicated in (17a) by a sentence boundary) after the first
conjunct.7
(17) a. John left. And he didn’t even say goodbye.
b. * John left and. He didn’t even say goodbye. (Ross 1967:90)
The fact that it is possible to extrapose the conjunction and the second
conjunct, but not the first conjunct and the conjunction (or just the first
conjunct) points towards the same conclusion:
(18) a. John bought a book ti
yesterday, and a newspaperi
.
b. * John bought ti
a newspaper yesterday a book andi
.
c. * John bought a book and ti
yesterday, a newspaperi
.
(Munn 1993:15)
The contrast in (19) establishes a similar point; the pro-form etc can
replace “and cookies” but not just “cookies”.8
(19) a. I bought jam, bread, and cookies.
b. I bought jam, bread etc.
c. * I bought jam, bread, and etc. (Zoerner 1995:17)
Second, there is evidence that the first conjunct c-commands the second
one. In (20a) below, for example, the name contained in the second con-
junct is c-commanded by the coindexed pronoun in the first one, in viola-
tion of Principle C. There is no c-command between John and he (or him)
in (20b), since John is buried inside the first conjunct.
(20) a. * Hei
and Johni
’s dog went for a walk.
b. Johni
’s dog and hei
/himi
went for a walk. (Munn 1993:16)
The contrast in (21) makes a similar point with respect to variable binding;
bound variable interpretation is possible in (21a) because the quantified
noun phrase every man c-commands his dog, but it is impossible in (21b)
because the second conjunct does not c-command the first one.
(21) a. Every mani
and hisi
dog went to mow the meadow.
b. * Hisi
dog and everyi
man went to mow the meadow.
(Munn 1993:16)
There are many asymmetric structures that have been proposed for
coordination which are consistent with the data above. They all capture
the fact that the second conjunct does not c-command the first one. They
differ, however, in whether the first conjunct c-commands the second one.
The simplest (and most commonly assumed) structure is the one given in
(22). This is the structure suggested by Larson (1990) and argued for more
2.5 Coordination 27
explicitly by Johannessen (1998) and Zoerner (1995), among many others.9
This is also the structure I adopt in this book.10
(22) &P
XP &
& XP (cf. Johannessen 1998:109)
This is by no means the only possibility. Munn (1993) and Progovac
(1998a, 1998b) argue for a structure in which one conjunct and the con-
junction are adjoined to the other conjunct. For Munn, the constituent
consisting of the conjunction and the second conjunct is adjoined to the
first conjunct, as shown in (23a). For Progovac, each conjunct is a com-
plement of its own conjunction head, and the &P containing the first
conjunct is adjoined to a null pronominal head, as shown in (23b).11
A
yet different structure was proposed by Camacho (1997) and (2003). His
structure, given in (23c) below, involves no conjunction phrase what-
soever. The conjunction occupies a variable position, marked as X in
(23c). For example, with coordinate subjects, the conjunction is in T (I
in Camacho’s terms) and with coordinate objects, it is in v (AgrO head in
Camacho’s terms).
(23) a. XP
XP BP (=Boolean Phrase)
B XP (cf. Munn 1993:13)
b.
&P
&P &
&
XP
XP
XP
XP
XP
(cf. Progovac 1998b:5)
c. XP
NP X
X XP
NP X
X YP (Camacho 1997:51)
28 Asymmetry in syntax
Progovac (1998a) and (1998b), however, raises some issues for the
Johannessen/Zoerner structure given in (22) above. In particular, she
questions the idea (shared by the structures in (22), (23a) and (23c)) that
the first conjunct c-commands the second one. If it did, we would expect
to find a contrast in grammaticality between (24a) and (24b). The fact that
both are ungrammatical does not follow from the structure in which the
first conjunct c-commands the second one.
(24) a. * He chased nobody and/or any dogs.
b. * He chased any dogs and/or nobody. (Progovac 1998a: 3)
Progovac also questions the Principle C data given in (20a–b) above and
points out that the same contrast holds across clauses:
(25) * Hei
finally arrived. John’si
dog went for a walk. (Progovac 1998a:3)
Furthermore, if c-command were the only factor responsible for the con-
trast in (20a–b), one would expect no contrast whatsoever between (26a)
and (26b) below, as the c-command relationships are the same in both
examples: John asymmetrically c-commands John’s wife in both examples,
yet (26b) is markedly worse than (26a).
(26) a. Johni
and John’si
wife are certainly invited.
b. ?* Johni
certainly likes John’si
wife. (Progovac 1998a:3)
Another issue Progovac raises comes from languages with reflexive
possessive pronouns. Polish, similarly to Serbo-Croatian (the language
Progovac focuses on) has both possessive pronouns and possessive reflex-
ives, illustrated in (27a–b) below. In such languages, a possessive pronoun
is obligatorily disjoint from the subject.
(27) a. Jani
lubi swóji
dom. Polish
Jan likes refl house
‘Jan likes his (own) house.’
b. Jani
lubi jegoj/*i
dom.
Jan likes his house
‘Jan likes his (someone else’s) house.’
The reflexive possessive, however, is impossible as the second conjunct in
a coordinate structure, in spite of being c-commanded by a potential ante-
cedent:12
(28) * Jani
i swojai
żona przyszli.
Jan and refl wife arrived
‘Jan and his wife have arrived.’
2.6 Double object constructions 29
The ungrammaticality of (28), however, has an independent explana-
tion, having to do with the fact that the Polish reflexive pronoun swój is a
subject-oriented anaphor. In (29a) below, the indirect object cannot serve
as the antecedent of swój even though it c-commands it. Furthermore,
being a subject-oriented anaphor, swój itself cannot be inside a subject.
This can also account for the ungrammaticality of (28) and (29b). In
example (29b), c-command is also not a factor; the scrambled indirect
object Janowi does c-command the subject anaphor swój.
(29) a. Jani
dał Tomkowij
swojąi/*j
książkę.
Jan.nom gave Tom.dat refl book.acc
‘Jan gave Tom his book.’
b. * Janowii
, swóji
professor dał ti
książkę.
Jan.dat refl professor.nom gave book.acc
‘His professor gave Jan a book.’
The conclusion that the first conjunct c-commands the second one might
seem somewhat weaker in view of Progovac’s data. However, the struc-
ture in which the first conjunct does not c-command the second one does
not necessarily entail a symmetric structure. Thus the facts do not warrant
abandoning the asymmetric approach to coordination. They also do not
necessarily warrant abandoning the structure in which the first conjunct
c-commands the second one. Rather, they call for an alternative explana-
tion for why anaphor binding or negative polarity licensing across two
conjuncts is impossible. One possibility would be to attribute it to the fact
that the anaphor and its binder (the same goes for the negative polarity
item and its licensor) have to have distinct thematic roles or distinct gram-
matical functions.
In the next section, I turn to double object constructions, which were
also initially analyzed as symmetric and have since been reanalyzed as
asymmetric. This much is uncontroversial (and widely agreed upon). What
is more controversial is the question of what kind of asymmetric structure
double object constructions involve, especially in languages in which the
order between the two objects is not fixed.
2.6 Double object constructions
Perhaps the first structure for double object constructions every syntax
student encounters is a ternary branching one of the kind given in (30b), in
which the two objects stand in a symmetric c-command relationship. This,
30 Asymmetry in syntax
for example, is the structure assumed by Oerhle (1976), recently “resur-
rected” by Culicover and Jackendoff (2005).13
(30) a. Gina gave Sue a book.
b. VP
V NP NP
gave Sue a book
However, as shown by Barss and Lasnik (1986), standard c-command
diagnostics argue against such a symmetric structure and show that (at
least in English) the indirect object c-commands the direct one. These diag-
nostics involve Principle A effects, variable binding, negative polarity item
licensing, weak crossover and passivization. The contrast in (31a–b) shows
that the indirect object can bind an anaphoric direct object but not vice
versa, the contrast in (32a–b) shows that a quantified indirect object can
bind a direct object variable but not vice versa, and the contrast in (33a–b)
makes a similar point with respect to negative polarity item licensing; a
negative indirect object can license a negative polarity direct object but a
direct object cannot license an indirect object negpol. Examples (34a–b)
show that a direct object cannot cross over the indirect object containing
a coindexed pronoun.14
And finally, (35a–b) show that the indirect object
is higher than the direct object, hence closer to the specifier of TP for the
purposes of passivization.
(31) a. I showed Maryi
herselfi
. Principle A effects
b. * I showed herselfi
Maryi
.
(32) a. I gave everyi
worker hisi
paycheck. variable binding
b. * I sent itsi
owner everyi
paycheck.
(33) a. I showed no one anything. negpol licensing
b. * I showed anyone nothing.
(34) a. % Which mani
did you send ti
hisi
paycheck? weak crossover
b. * Whose payi
did you send his mother ti
?
(35) a. Johni
was given ti
a book. passivization
b. * A booki
was given John ti
.
(Larson 1988:336)
They all point towards an asymmetric structure in which the indirect
object c-commands the direct one.
2.6 Double object constructions 31
(36)
IO
DO
There are many variants of such a structure, a sampling of which is given
in (37a–c). They differ with respect to what kinds of elements mediate the
relationship between the two objects; a verb in a VP shell structure (as
argued by Larson 1988, for example), a prepositional element (as argued
by Pesetsky 1995 and Harley 2002, among others), or a small clause head
(as argued by Kayne 1984 and Beck and Johnson 2004).
(37) a. VP
IO V
V DO
V tIO (Larson 1988:353)
b. vP
v PP
IO P
PHAVE DO (Harley 2002:32)
c. VP
V HAVEP
IO HAVE
HAVE DO (cf. Beck and Johnson 2004:104)
The issue of what structure double object constructions involve becomes
even more interesting in languages like Japanese or Polish, which allow
either order of the two objects and mark them with different cases, as
shown in (38a–b) for Polish and (39a–b) for Japanese.
(38) a. Jan dał Marii książkę.
Jan.nom gave Maria.dat book.acc
‘Jan gave Maria a book.’
b. Jan dał Marii książkę.
Jan.nom gave book.acc Maria.dat
‘Jan gave Maria a book.’
32 Asymmetry in syntax
(39) a. Taroo-ga Hanako-ni nimotu-o okutta.
Taro-nom Hanako-dat package-acc sent
‘Taro sent Hanako a package.’
b. Taroo-ga nimotu-o Hanako-ni okutta.
Taro-nom package-acc Hanako-dat sent
‘Taro gave a package to Hanako.’
(Miyagawa and Tsujioka 2004:5)
Such alternations raise the question of which order is basic and which
one derived, or even more fundamentally, the question of whether the
two orders are transformationally related at all. Both of these ques-
tions are far from being settled. Dornisch (1998), for example, takes the
basic order in Polish to be DO IO (see also Bailyn 1995 and in press
for similar claims about Russian). I argue in Chapter 4 that the basic
order is IO DO instead. Dyakonova (2007, 2009) makes a similar case
for Russian, and Dvořák (in press) and Kučerová (2007) for Czech. Hoji
(1985) takes the IO DO order in Japanese to be basic, and the DO IO
order to be derived via scrambling. Miyagawa (1995, 1997), Miyagawa
and Tsujioka (2004), on the other hand, argue that the two orders are
not transformationally derived, but are a reflex of two different argument
structures, corresponding to the English double object structure and to-
dative structure, respectively. What allows for such an analysis is the fact
that the Japanese particle ni is ambiguous between a dative marker and
a preposition.
The structure I rely on in Chapter 4 (which deals with symmetric Move)
assimilates double object constructions to applicative constructions. This
is particularly apparent in languages in which the presence of an indirect
object correlates with the presence of an applied morpheme on the verb.
The examples in (40a–b) from Ndendeule, a Bantu language spoken in
southern Tanzania, provide an illustration; (40a) is a transitive clause and
(40b) a corresponding ditransitive one – it contains an extra argument
mw-ana ‘child’, licensed by the applicative morpheme el.15
(40) a. n-gɛhεni a-ki-hεmεl-a ngoβo. Ndendeule
1-guest 1-past-buy-fv 10cloth
‘The guest bought clothes.’
b. n-ghεni a-ki-n-hεmεl-εl-a mw-ana ngoβo
1-guest 1sa-past-1oa-buy-APPL-fv 1-child 10cloth
‘The guest bought the child clothes.’ (Ngonyani 1996:3)
If we allow applicative morphemes to be null, extending the applicative
analysis to English double object constructions is pretty straightforward.
2.7 Double object constructions 33
Even though the verb’s morphology does not change in from (41a) to
(41b), its valency does increase by one in (41b).16
(41) a. John baked a cake.
b. John baked Mary a cake.
Furthermore, applicatives do not have to be derived from transitive verbs;
if an applied object is added to an intransitive verb, the result is a transitive
construction. An example from Albanian is given in (42).
(42) I vrapova. Albanian
him(dat.cl) ran.1sg
‘I ran for him.’ (Pylkkänen 2002:25)
Multiple applicatives are also possible. The following example from
Kinyarwanda contains both a benefactive and a locative applicative.
(43) Umugóre a-rá-hé-er-a umagabo ímbwa íbiryo.
woman she-pres-give-appl-asp man dog food
‘The woman is giving food to the dog for the man.’
(Kimenyi 1980:65)
One of the biggest issues in the research on applicatives concerns
the syntactic behavior of the two objects. More specifically, the issue is
whether both objects behave like true objects, or only one of them does
(and if so, which one). Languages in which the two objects behave alike
are often referred to as symmetric languages, and languages in which only
one does are referred to as asymmetric languages. The properties that are
typically used to diagnose the symmetric versus asymmetric behavior of
the two objects involve their relative order (i.e. which one needs to be adja-
cent to the verb), agreement (i.e. which one determines verb agreement),
passivization (i.e. which one can undergo passive movement).17
Another important development in the research on applicatives is the
distinction between high and low applicatives, due to Pylkkänen (2002,
2008). A high applicative head establishes a relation between the indirect
object and the event denoted by the VP. In structural terms, this means that
the indirect object is the specifier of the high applicative head, and the VP
(containing the direct object) is its complement, as shown in (44a) below. In
a low applicative structure, the applicative head establishes a more direct
relationship between the two objects; the indirect object is its specifier and
the direct object is its complement, as shown in (44b). In both types, the
relative relationship between the direct and the indirect object is the same
in that the indirect object asymmetrically c-commands the direct one.
34 Asymmetry in syntax
(44) a. high applicatives b. low applicatives
ApplHP
IO ApplH
ApplH VP
V DO
VP
V ApplLP
IO ApplL
ApplL DO
This difference in structure is also reflected in the semantic interpreta-
tion of the two applicative heads. A high applicative head is a two-place
predicate taking an event as one argument, and an individual as the other
one, as shown in (45). It is compatible with a wide variety of semantic
interpretations.
(45) λx. λe. APPL (e, x) high applicative
collapsing APPLben,
APPLinstr,
APPLloc
(Pylkkänen 2002:21)
The semantics of a low applicative head is more complex; such a head
takes two individuals and a function as its arguments.
(46) a. λx. λy. λf <e, <s,t>>
. λe. f(e,x) & theme (e,x) & to-the-possession (x,y)
b. λx. λy. λf<e, <s,t>>
. λe. f(e,x) & theme (e,x) & from-the-possession (x,y)
(Pylkkänen 2002:22)
Pylkkänen uses three independent diagnostics to determine whether a
given applicative is high or low: compatibility with intransitive verbs, com-
patibility with stative verbs, and the ability for the object to be modified
by a depictive. First, since low applicatives describe transfer of possession
between two internal arguments, they are not possible with intransitive
verbs (which lack one argument). Second, low applicatives are incompat-
ible with verbs that describe states (rather than events) because such verbs
are lexically incompatible with the idea of transfer. And third, low applica-
tives are incompatible with depictives modifying objects because they are
of the incorrect semantic type.18
According to these three diagnostics, English lacks high applicatives.
First, applied arguments are impossible with intransitive verbs, as shown by
the ungrammaticality of (47a). Second, they are incompatible with stative
predicates such as to hold a book, as shown in (47b).19
And third, they cannot
be modified by depictives, as shown by the ungrammaticality of (47c).
(47) a. * I ran him.
b. * I held Mary her book.
c. * I gave Maryi
the book hungryi
.
2.7 Asymmetry in Move 35
High applicatives, on the other hand, are possible with both intransitive
and stative verbs, and allow depictives predicated of the indirect object.
These three properties are illustrated in (48a–c) for Albanian and in
(49a–c) for Luganda.
(48) a. I vrapova. Albanian
him(dat.cl) ran.1sg
‘I ran for him.’
b. Agimi i mban Drites çanten time.
Agimi.nom dat.clholds Drita.dat bag my.acc
‘Agim holds my bag for Drita.’ (Pylkkänen 2002:25)
c. Drita i poqi Agimiti
të lodhuri
.
Drita.nom cl baked Agim.dat 3sg-masc tired
‘Drita baked for Agim tired.’ (Pylkkänen 2002:36)
(49) a. Mukasa ya-tambu-le-dde Katonga. Luganda
Mukasa 3sg.past-walk-appl-past Katonga
‘Mukasa walked for Katonga.’
b. Katonga ya-kwaant-i-dde Mukasa ensawo.
Katonga 3sg.past-hold-appl-past Mukasa bag
‘Katonga held the bag for Mukasa.’ (Pylkkänen 2008:20)
c. Mustafa ya-ko-le-dde Katongai
nga mulwaddei
.
Mustafa 3sg.past-work-appl-past Katonga sick
‘Mustafa worked for Katonga while Katonga was sick.’
(Pylkkänen 2008:31)
The upshot of the discussion in this section is that irrespective of which
structure for double object constructions we adopt, the relationship
between the two objects has to be asymmetric. We saw both theoretical
and empirical arguments in favor of such a structure. In the next section,
I turn to the evidence typically used to argue for the asymmetric nature of
movement.
2.7 Asymmetry in Move
The most convincing evidence in favor of the claim that movement is
asymmetric comes from locality considerations. The data used to support
this claim typically involve the configuration schematized in (50a–b), in
which γ is the Probe (i.e. the element with some uninterpretable feature
that needs to be checked) and α and β are two potential Goals (i.e. two ele-
ments that could in principle check this feature). Furthermore, both α and
β have to be in the c-command domain of γ, and α has to c-command β. In
such cases, the movement of α is possible, as shown in (50a), whereas the
movement of β crossing α is not, as shown in (50b):20
36 Asymmetry in syntax
(50) a.
γ
α
β
b.
γ
α
β
This is a familiar Relativized Minimality configuration, whose effects are
found in the domain of A-bar movement, A-movement and head move-
ment. Rizzi’s (1990) original formulation of Relativized Minimality is
given in (51). Relativized Minimality requires all traces to be governed
and disallows government by a head across an intervening head, by an
element in an A-bar position across an intervening A-bar position, and by
an element in an A position across an intervening A position.
(51) Relativized Minimality (Rizzi 1990:7)
X α-governs Y only if there is no Z such that
a. Z is a typical potential α-governor for Y;
b. Z c-commands Y and Z does not c-command X.
More recently, the effects of Relativized Minimality have been subsumed
under various types of economy principles, such as the Minimal Link
Condition, given in (52), or Attract Closest, given in (53).
(52) Minimal Link Condition (Chomsky 1995:296)
α can raise to target K only if there is no legitimate operation Move β
targeting K, where β is closer to K.
(53) Attract Closest
K attracts F if F is the closest feature that can enter into a checking
relationship with a sublabel of K.
Chomsky’s (1973) Superiority Condition, given in (54) below, was an
early principle that mandated rules to be asymmetric by privileging the
structurally higher (or superior) element. It had the flavor of a general
economy principle, thus predating current economy principles.
(54) Superiority Condition (Chomsky 1973:101)
a. No rule can involve Χ, Υ in the structure
... X ... [ … Z ... Υ . . . ] . . .
where the rule applies ambiguously to Z and Υ and Z is superior to Y.
b. the category A is “superior” to the category B in the phrase marker
if every major category dominating A dominates B as well but not
conversely.
A well-known illustration of the asymmetric nature of A-bar movement
comes from multiple wh-questions, in which (at least in languages like
2.7 Asymmetry in Move 37
English) movement of the higher wh-phrase is possible but movement of
the lower one is not:
(55) a. Whoi
ti
bought what?
b. * Whati
did who buy ti
?
However, there are many well-known exceptions to the claim that wh-
movement is an asymmetric operation, coming both from English and
other languages. For example, as pointed out by Barss (2000) and Pesetsky
(2001), among others, superiority effects in multiple wh-questions get
considerably weaker if the wh-phrases are discourse-linked. The result
is symmetric wh-movement; movement of either the lower or the higher
wh-phrase is possible:
(56) a. Which studenti
ti
read which article ?
b. Which articlei
did which student read ti
?
Second, quite a few languages have been shown to allow violations of
superiority even in non discourse-linked contexts. We see this both in lan-
guages that front only one wh-phrase overtly (such as German, shown in
(57)) and in languages that front all wh-phrases overtly (such as Serbo-
Croatian or Polish, shown in (58–59)). See Citko and Grohmann (2001) for
further discussion.
(57) a. Weri
hat ti
was gekauft? German
who has what bought
‘Who bought what?’
b. Wasj
hat wer tj
gekauft?
what has who bought
(58) a. Koi
je ti
štaj
kupio tj
? Serbo-Croatian
who is what bought
‘Who bought what?’
b. Štaj
je koi
kupio tj
?
what is who bought
(59) a. Ktoi
coj
ti
kupił tj
? Polish
who what bought
‘Who bought what?’
b. Co ktoi
ti
kupił tj
?
what who bought
However, these exceptions seem to be only apparent, as what look
like superiority violations could be due to the fact that the movements
involved here are of different types. Movement of discourse-linked wh-
phrases is often analyzed as targeting a different position than movement
of non discourse-linked ones (as argued by Boeckx and Grohmann 2004,
38 Asymmetry in syntax
for example), and movement of either non-initial or all wh-phrases in
multiple wh-fronting languages is often analyzed as either targeting a dif-
ferent position or being driven by different types of features. Bošković
(2002), for example, argues that the lack of superiority effects in Slavic
languages can be attributed to the fact that the movement of wh-phrases
is driven by Greed (rather than Attract); wh-phrases thus move to satisfy
their own checking requirements, not because they are attracted by a C
head.
We see the same asymmetry in the domain of A-movement. A straight-
forward illustration comes from the process known as superraising, which
involves movement of an argument (a subject, more specifically) from an
A position to another A position across an intervening argument in yet
another A position, as shown schematically in (60).
(60) * [TP
subjecti
… [TP
subject … [TP
ti
… ] ] ]
A concrete example is given in (61) below; the subject of the embedded
clause moves to the matrix subject position across the intermediate clause
subject.21
(61) * Johni
seems that it is certain ti
to fix the car.
A similar configuration, illustrated in (62), arises in raising to subject
across an overt experiencer. Since the experiencer is closer to the matrix T,
movement of the subject is predicted to be ungrammatical.22
(62) * [TP
subjecti …
experiencer … [TP
ti
… ] ]
Examples (63a–b) below illustrate such movement in Spanish and Italian.23
(63) a. * Este taxistai
parece a Maria [ti
estar cansado]. Spanish
this taxi driver.nom seems to Maria be tired.
‘It seems to Maria that this taxi driver is tired.’ (Torrego 1996:106)
b. * Giannii
sembra a Piero [ti
non fare suo dovere]. Italian
Gianni.nom seems to Piero not to.do his duty
‘Gianni seems to Piero not to do his duty.’
(Cuervo 2003a:203, citing Rizzi 1986)
A simple and straightforward illustration of asymmetry in head move-
ment comes from subject–auxiliary inversion in examples involving two (or
more) auxiliary verbs. In such cases, only the higher auxiliary can move:
(64) a. They could have left.
b. Couldi
they ti
have left?
c. * Havei
they could ti
left?
2.8 Asymmetry in Labeling 39
An early principle dealing with such cases is Travis’s Head Movement
Constraint, given in (65) below. Informally, it says that a head may move
to another head position only if there is no other head intervening.
(65) Head Movement Constraint (Travis 1984:131)
An X0
may only move into the Y0
which properly governs it.
There are also exceptions to this generalization, involving the so-called
long head movement, analyzed as precisely the kind of movement that the
Head Movement Constraint deems to be impossible. These are the notori-
ous cases of participle fronting in a subset of Slavic languages, discussed
by Lema and Rivero (1989), Rivero (1991, 1994), among others, and illus-
trated in (66a–c). In all of them, the fronted participle crosses the auxiliary
clitic, indicated in bold (examples from Rivero 1991).
(66) a. Pročeli
e ti
Petur knigata. Bulgarian
read perf.3sg Peter book.def
‘Peter has read the book.’
b. Koupili
jsem ti
knihy. Czech
bought perf.1sg books
‘I have bought books.’
c. Čitaoi
sam ti
knjigu. Serbo-Croatian
read perf.1sg book
‘I have read a book.’
However, there are many alternative accounts of this somewhat peculiar
construction that do not rely on long head movement, and which, in fact,
argue against long head movement. Bošković (2001), for example, ana-
lyzes the fronted participle plus clitic as a verb cluster in which the par-
ticiple adjoins to the auxiliary, rather than moves across it. Ackema and
Čamdžić (2003) analyze it as complex predicate formation at LF. I will not
go into the details of these accounts; suffice it to say to that there are alter-
natives that do not rely on long head movement.
To sum up, we saw in this section a fair amount of evidence for move-
ment being asymmetric. In all three major types of movement, the element
that is closest to the target is the one that moves. In the next section, I turn
to the third type of asymmetry in syntax, involving labels in both Merge
and Move structures.
2.8 Asymmetry in Labeling
The third mechanism considered in this book is the mechanism that deter-
mines labels in structures created by both Merge (External Merge) and
40 Asymmetry in syntax
Move (Internal Merge). In this section, I focus on the inherent asymmetry
in this mechanism. As we saw in Chapter 1, the output of Merge (External
and Internal alike) is (67a) in set notation and (67b) in tree notation. In
both, γ represents a label of the syntactic object K.
(67) a. K = {γ,{α, β}}
b. γ
α β
The answer to the question of what determines the label is constrained by
the Inclusiveness Condition, which bans the introduction of new entities
during the derivation. The label of an object consisting of α and β has to be
constructed from the features of α and β. Chomsky (1995) discusses three
possibilities; the label could be the intersection of α and β, the union of
α and β, or one or the other of α and β. However, he allows only the last
option because “the intersection of α and β will generally be irrelevant to
output conditions, often null; and the union will be not only irrelevant but
‘contradictory’ if α and β differ in value for some feature,” which is often the
case (Chomsky 1995:244). This is where the asymmetry of Labeling comes
in; only one of the two elements determines the label. Furthermore, for any
case of Merge, only one choice is possible. For example, when a preposition
merges with a noun, only the preposition can project as the label.
(68) a. Merge to and school, b. Merge to and school,
project to project school
to
to school
school
to school
The reason behind this asymmetry seems fairly straightforward; it is the
preposition (not the noun) that has its selectional feature satisfied by
merging with the noun. There are many different implementations of this
general idea. Adger (2003:91), for example, conceives of selectional fea-
tures as uninterpretable categorical features that need to be satisfied by
merging with objects of appropriate types. In both (68a) and (68b) above,
the preposition has an uninterpretable nominal feature (i.e. [uD] feature),
which is valued when it merges with a DP complement. The label is thus
determined by the object that has its uninterpretable feature (its [uF]
feature) satisfied via the Merge operation, as shown schematically in (69).
(69) αuF
αuF βF
2.8 Asymmetry in Labeling 41
This is also the conclusion reached by Pesetsky and Torrego (2006), who
argue that both Internal and External Merge are feature-driven, governed
by the so-called Vehicle Requirement on Merge, given in (70).
(70) Vehicle Requirement on Merge (Pesetsky and Torrego 2006:25)
If α and β merge, some feature F of α must probe F on β.
Boeckx’s (2008) Probe-Label Correspondence Axiom, given in (71) below,
also relies on the intuition that the Probe is the element that projects as the
label.
(71) Probe-Label Correspondence Axiom (Boeckx 2008:96)
The label of {α, β} is whichever α or β probes the other, where Probe =
lexical item whose uF gets valued.
Interestingly, Chomsky (2008) departs from this fairly intuitive view of
labels, and, instead of relying on feature checking, suggests the Labeling
algorithm given in (72a–b). Notice that this algorithm also abandons the
idea that there is a unified mechanism to determine labels in External
and Internal Merge structures. The algorithm has two parts; (72a) deals
with labels in External Merge, and (72b) with labels in Internal Merge
structures.
(72) a. In {H, α}, H an LI, H is the label
b. If α is internally merged to β, forming {α, β}, then the label of β is
the label of {α, β} (Chomsky 2008:145)
H in (72a) stands for a head and LI for a lexical item. A lexical item is any
element selected directly from the Numeration (as opposed to a complex
object resulting from a previous Merge operation). From this perspective,
both lexical and functional elements “count” as lexical items.
However, there are cases, noted by Chomsky himself, that either do not
follow from the algorithm or for which the algorithm makes incorrect pre-
dictions. It works nicely when a head merges with a non-head. However,
it is problematic for cases involving two heads, or two non-heads, illus-
trated in (73a–b) respectively. In (73a), since we are merging two lexical
items, either should be able to project, and in (73b), since we are merging
two non-lexical items, neither should be able to project. The first Merge in
every derivation is an example of (73a) and merging a subject as a specifier
of vP or TP is an example of (73b).
(73) a. ?
X Y
b. ?
XP YP/Y
42 Asymmetry in syntax
The alternative views on Labeling outlined above, which link labels to
selection or feature checking, avoid this problem. Even in the first Merge
one element is selected by another one. Merging the subject in [Spec, vP]
satisfies the selectional feature of v, and merging it in [Spec, TP] satisfies
the EPP feature of T.
To sum up briefly, while the different views on Labeling outlined in
this section differ in specifics, they all take labels to be asymmetric. The
asymmetry lies in the fact that the label is always determined by one of
the two merged elements. We also saw in this chapter both theoretical and
empirical reasons behind the standard minimalist view that Merge needs
to create asymmetric structures (because only such structures are linear-
izable) and that Move is asymmetric (as evidenced by standard locality
considerations).
The symmetry in (1) is quite obvious; α and β bear the same kind of rela-
tionship to γ. For now, the exact nature of this relationship is immaterial;
it could be thought of as either mutual c-command (both α and β c-com-
mand γ and both are c-commanded by it) or sisterhood, which is an inher-
ently symmetric relationship (both α and β are γ’s sisters).2
The symmetry
becomes even more straightforward if we “flatten” (1), turning it into (2)
below, and draw a line through the shared element γ. Now the parts on
both sides of the line, K and L, are fully symmetric. In what follows, I refer
to the two parallel parts as planes, borrowing Muadz’s (1991) term, and to
the shared element as the pivot.3,4
(2)
43
3 Symmetry in Merge
3.1 Introduction
In the previous chapter, I surveyed the evidence typically used to support
the claims that Merge, Move and Labeling are inherently asymmetric
mechanisms. In the rest of the book, I turn to the evidence to support
the claim that all three can also be symmetric under certain well-defined
circumstances. This might come as a bit of a surprise; however, my goal
here is not to renounce (or reanalyze as symmetric) all the phenomena that
I showed to be asymmetric in Chapter 2, but, rather, to point out other
sources of symmetry in the grammar.
In the current chapter, I motivate the existence of a very specific kind
of symmetric structure created by Merge: the multidominant structure
given in (1).1
(1) K L
α β γ
K L
α γ β
pivot
Plane B
Plane A
44 Symmetry in Merge
The discussion in this chapter is structured as follows. In the next three sec-
tions (Sections 3.2–3.5), I introduce symmetric structures, focusing on how
they are generated, linearized and have their features checked. In Section
3.6, I turn to the empirical evidence, surveying constructions that can be (or
have been) analyzed as multidominant. The ones I focus on are: across-the-
board wh-questions (Section 3.6.1), questions with conjoined wh-questions
(Section 3.6.2), right node raising (Section 3.6.3), gapping (section 3.6.4),
serial verbs (Section 3.6.5) and free relatives (Section 3.6.6). Note that not
all of them are coordinate, which shows that multidominance is independ-
ent of coordination and which is consistent with the asymmetric approach
to coordination that I advocated in Chapter 2. Section 3.7 is the conclusion.
3.2 Symmetric Merge: Parallel Merge5
Even though multidominant structures are not consistent with the standard
views of phrase structure (as they violate the Single Root Condition), their
existence goes back to the early days of generative grammar. What makes the
mechanism introduced in this section different from many of its conceptual
predecessors is that it can derive multidominance without introducing any
extra assumptions into the grammar. Instead, it treats multidominance as a
natural consequence of basic minimalist assumptions about the nature of
structure building and movement operations, as it combines the properties
of External Merge and Internal Merge. We saw in Chapter 1 that External
Merge takes two disjoint objects as its input, whereas Internal Merge takes
two objects, one of which is a part of the other, as its input. This third type,
which in Citko (2000, 2003, 2005) I dubbed Parallel Merge, is like External
Merge in that it takes two distinct objects as its input. However, it is also
like Internal Merge in that it combines one with a subpart of the other.
Parallel Merge structures are thus a result of a two-step process, illustrated
in (3a–b). First, α merges with γ, and next, β merges with γ, as shown in
(3b). As a result, γ becomes the pivot shared between α and β.6,7
(3) a. Merge α and γ, project α
α γ α
α γ
b. Merge β and γ, project β
α β α β
α γ α β γ
3.2 Symmetric Merge: Parallel Merge 45
Parallel Merge builds on the insights of earlier proposals that all rely on the
same intuition, the intuition that one element is shared between two nodes,
occupies two positions in a tree simultaneously, or exists in two dimensions
at the same time. Let me discuss these proposals briefly before moving on
to the specifics of the Parallel Merge mechanism. Many restrict multidomi-
nance to coordination, either by modifying existing phrase structure rules
(or phrase structure building mechanisms) to generate multidominant
structures, or by modifying existing tree axioms to allow multidominant
representations. Williams (1978), for example, conceives of the conjuncts
in a coordinate structure as so-called parallel factors and derives many of
the constraints on ATB wh-movement from the parallelism constraint on
such factors.8
He accomplishes this by allowing the following bracketed
structures into the grammar:
(4) The structure
is a well-formed labeled bracketing if X1
, …, Xn
are. (Williams 1978:32)
Goodall (1983, 1987) derives multidominance from a union of reduced
phrase markers.9
If one phrase marker contains terminal nodes abc and
the other one edc, they can be collapsed into one phrase marker, with c as a
shared node, as shown in (5a–c).
(5) a. b. c.
a
b c
e
d c
a e
b d c
A slightly different approach is taken by McCawley (1982), who relaxes
standard tree axioms to allow both multidominant trees and trees with
crossing nodes. A yet different approach is taken by Moltmann (1992a,
1992b), who, following Muadz (1991), captures multidominance by intro-
ducing the rule given in (6). The resulting system is multidimensional
rather than multidominant, as the two conjuncts exist in two different
dimensions.
(6) A → <B1
, … , Bn
> J where Bi
is a legal expansion of A and J is a
coordinator. (Moltmann 1992b: 265)
De Vries (2005a, 2005b, 2008) proposes a special kind of Merge, b-Merge
(which stands for behindance Merge), which allows one conjunct in a
coordinate structure to stand behind another one.
1]C1
[X
and
[Xn]Cn
46 Symmetry in Merge
Multidominance is also not limited to minimalism (and its predeces-
sors). Chen-Main (2006), for example, argues for the existence of multid-
ominant structures in Tree Adjoining Grammar. In TAG, multidominant
structures are a result of node contraction, a process introduced by Sarkar
and Joshi (1996) to handle coordination. Node contraction is illustrated in
(7a–c); it takes two nodes that are marked for contraction (marked in bold
in (7a–b)) and collapses them into a single node, as shown in (7c). Node
contraction is essentially equivalent to Goodall’s (1987) union of phrase
markers given in (5a–c) above.
(7) a. b.
XP1
YP X1
X1 ZP
XP2
YP X2
X2 ZP
XP1 XP2
YP X1 X2
X1 ZP X2 ZP
Irrespective of which of these mechanisms we adopt, there are a number
of questions that the symmetry introduced by multidominance raises. The
ones that strike me as most pressing in the context of current minimalist
theory are listed in (8a–d).
(8) a. What are the constraints on symmetric Merge?
b. How are features valued (or checked) in symmetric Merge structures?
c. How are symmetric Merge structures linearized?
d. What empirical insights do symmetric Merge structures offer?
In Section 3.6, which constitutes the bulk of the discussion in this chapter,
I address question (8d) by surveying constructions that can be (or have
been) analyzed in a symmetric fashion. In Sections 3.3–3.5, I tackle the
remaining questions listed in (8).
3.3 Constraints on symmetric Merge
The first question concerns the restrictions on shared elements, the pivots.
The best-case scenario is that there are none. Let us see if this is feasible.
What this means is that any element can be a pivot, irrespective of its
phrase-theoretical status. In particular, pivots can be maximal (as shown
in (9a–b)), minimal (as shown in (10a–b)), or intermediate (as shown in
(11a–b)). The structures in (9–12a) are bare phrase structure theoretical
representations, and the ones in (9–12b) are their more “traditional” X-bar
theoretical counterparts.
Furthermore, nothing prevents a single category from being simultane-
ously minimal and maximal. This is what happens in (12a–b); the shared
3.3 Constraints on symmetric Merge 47
element γ is both maximal (because it does not project any further) and
minimal (because it itself is not a projection of γ).
(9) a. b.
α β YP ZP
α β γ Y Z XP
γ δ X WP
(10) a. b.
α β
α β γ
γ δ
(11) a. b.
XP XP
Y Z X
XP XP
Y Z X
X WP
γ γ
α β γ
(12) a. b.
α β
α β γ
Interestingly, there is one other option that Bare Phrase Structure Theory
allows, which is excluded by X-bar theory. It is illustrated in (13a–b); the
pivot γ is maximal with respect to one plane (the one dominated by β) but
intermediate with respect to the other plane (the one dominated by γ).
(13) a. b.
There is nothing in the mechanism of Parallel Merge that would exclude
such “mixed” cases. Thus, if they exist, they provide a good argument in
favor of a bare approach to phrase structure, as standard X-bar theory
does not allow a single element to be simultaneously maximal and non-
maximal. In fact, this possibility might allow us to capture case mismatches
in free relatives and case proximity effects in right node raising construc-
tions, which I will discuss in Sections 3.6.3 and 3.6.6, respectively.10
3.4 Feature checking in symmetric Merge structures
The second question in (8) involves feature valuation (or checking) in
symmetric configurations. Agree, the operation responsible for providing
values to unvalued features, is a one-to-one relationship between a Probe
YP ZP
Y Z XP
X
δ
γ β XP ZP
α β γ Y Z X/XP
γ X WP
48 Symmetry in Merge
and a Goal in its (c-command) domain. A paradigmatic example of Agree
is a relationship between a finite T (the Probe) and a subject in [Spec, vP],
schematized in (14), which results in T having its ϕ features valued and the
subject having its case feature valued.11
(14) a. b.
The configurations we encounter in symmetric Parallel Merge structures
are different in that they involve one-to-many or many-to-one relation-
ships between Probes and Goals. This raises the following question. If
there are two clauses with a shared subject, how does this shared subject
get its case features valued? The opposite issue arises if the shared element
is a head that itself can value case features on the Goal, such as a v or a
T head. These two scenarios are illustrated in (15a–b). (15a) involves two
Probes (two v heads) and one Goal (a shared object), and (15b) one Probe
(a shared T head) and two Goals (two subjects).
(15) a.
TP TP
Tuϕ: __ vP Tuϕ:val vP
DPuC:__ϕ:val v DPuC:Nom ϕ:val v
v VP v VP
vP vP
v VP VP
V V DPuC;— , ϕ:val
uϕ:—
vuϕ:—
TP TP
T vP vP
v v
v VP v VP
DPuC;— ϕ:val
DPuC;— ,ϕ:val
uϕ:—
b.
The issue is not unique to multidominant structures. Hiraiwa (2005), for
example, explores the possibility that a single Probe can value features on
two Goals simultaneously in a process he calls Multiple Agree.12
The cases
he discusses are different from the ones under consideration here, as they
do not involve multidominance at all. (16a) below provides a schematic
representation of the data Hiraiwa was concerned with, and (16b–c) give
illustrative examples. (16b) shows that in Icelandic, T can undergo Multiple
Agree with both the associate of the expletive morgum studentum ‘many
3.4 Feature checking in symmetric Merge structures 49
students’ and the embedded subject tölvurnar ‘computers.’ As a result, the
matrix verb shows plural agreement. If the intervening associate is singular,
as in (16c), Multiple Agree is blocked, and only default agreement on the
verb is possible.
(16) a. T uϕ
> DP uCase,ϕ
> DP uCase,ϕ
b. það finnst/finnast morgum stúdentum tölvurna
ljótar
exp find.sg/find.PL many student.dat.PL computers.dat.pl.nom
ugly
‘Many students find the computers to be ugly.’
c. það finnst/*finnast einverjum stúdent
tölvurnar ljótar.
exp find.sg/*find.PL some student.dat.SG
computers.dat.PL.NOM ugly
‘Some student finds the computers to be ugly.’ (Hiraiwa 2005:51)
The cases discussed by Hiraiwa involve a single Probe and multiple Goals,
schematized in (17a), which suggests that the opposite should also be pos-
sible, and that Agree between two Probes and one Goal (schematized in
(17b)) should also be allowed.
(17) a. Puϕ
>GuCase,ϕ
, GuCase,ϕ
Multiple Goal Agree
b. Puϕ
, Puϕ
>GuCase,ϕ
Multiple Probe Agree
Given Multiple Agree, the shared DP in (15a) can have its case features
valued by two v heads simultaneously and can value ϕ-features of two v
heads simultaneously as well, yielding (18a) below. And the shared T in
(15b) can value case features on two subjects, as shown in (18b). The fact
that the shared DP receives two case values (each from a different v) is
not a problem if the two case values are identical. If they are distinct (for
example, one is accusative and the other one nominative), the morphologi-
cal component will determine whether the result is possible or not. If the
lexical inventory of the language in question contains an appropriate syn-
cretic form (nominative and accusative in this case), the result is going to
be grammatical.
(18) a. vP vP
v VP vuϕ:val VP
V V DPuC:val1, val2, ϕ:val
uϕ:val
50 Symmetry in Merge
b.
A related question is which of the two DPs in (18a) values T’s unvalued
ϕ-features. If the two subjects agree in ϕ-features, the issue does not arise.
However, what happens if the two subjects disagree in features? Grosz
(2009) addresses precisely this issue and argues that such configurations
can give rise to what he calls cumulative agreement, which allows a shared
functional head to end up plural if the two unshared elements it agrees
with are singular.
3.5 Linearization of symmetric Merge structures
The next question in (8) concerns linearization of symmetric structures. As
Williams (1978:42) puts it, “sentences are not spoken in ‘ATB format’–that
is, with both conjuncts uttered simultaneously.” We saw in Chapter 2 that
the Linear Correspondence Axiom of Kayne (1994) only allows structures
of the kind given in (19a), in which asymmetric c-command maps onto
linear precedence, as shown in (19b). The resulting ordering is transitive,
total and antisymmetric.
(19) a. E
A E
a B D
b C
c
b. d(A) = {<a,b>, <b,c>, <a,c>}
A schematic representation of a multidominant structure that is the focus
of this chapter is given in (20). In this structure, C (and everything C
dominates, which is c, D and d) is shared between A and B.
TP TP
T vP vP
DP v DPuC;Nom, ϕ:val
uC:Nom, ϕ:val v
v VP v VP
uϕ:__
3.5 Linearization of symmetric Merge structures 51
(20) a.
b. d(A) = {<a,b>, <a,c>, <a,d>, <b,c>, <b,d>, <c,d>, <c,b>, <d,b>}
The problem with the ordering in (20b) lies with the pairs in bold. Since
a asymmetrically c-commands c and d, it should precede both of them.
However, A (which dominates a) also asymmetrically c-commands b, and b
in turn asymmetrically c-commands c and d. Thus, on the one hand, c and
d should precede b (by virtue of A asymmetrically c-commanding b), and,
on the other hand, b should precede c and d (by virtue of asymmetrically
c-commanding them). The presence of both <b,c> and <c,b> in the set given
in (20b) violates antisymmetry. The same goes for the pairs <b,d> and <d,b>.
The issue of linearizing multidominant structures is more general, and,
strictly speaking, it is not necessarily tied to the LCA. Irrespective of how
we conceive of the mapping between hierarchical structure and linear order,
there is the question of where (and how many times) to linearize the termi-
nals of C in a structure like (20a). Logically speaking, they could be linear-
ized in A, in B, or in both A and B, giving rise to the following possibilities.
(21) a. acdb terminals of C linearized within A
b. abcd terminals of C linearized within B
c. acdbcd terminals of C linearized within both A and B
In Bare Phrase Structure Theory, a similar problem arises even for simple
(i.e. not necessarily multidominant) structures created by Merge. We saw in
Chapter 2 that the first Merge of two lexical items always creates a symmet-
ric c-command configuration.13
But we also saw various ways to solve this
problem. For example, either of the two objects in a symmetric configura-
tion could undergo movement out of the symmetric configuration (which
is the idea behind Moro’s Dynamic Antisymmetry Theory), or one of them
could be null (which would make linearizing it a non-issue on the assump-
tion that only overt elements need to be linearized), or one of them could
have undergone self-Merge first, which would make it more complex for the
purposes of linearization. The logic behind all these solutions is the same
– to alter the structure in a way that makes it compatible with the LCA. We
B
A B
a b C
c D
d
52 Symmetry in Merge
could thus apply the same logic to multidominant structures. If C in (20a)
above undergoes overt movement or is null to begin with, linearization is
not a problem. This is the option I explored in Citko (2005); however, I now
believe that it is not sufficient. Ultimately, it is an empirical question of what
kinds of symmetric structures are linearizable. Does the grammar only
allow multidominant structures in which the shared elements have moved
(because only such structures are linearizable), or is there a way to linearize
shared elements in situ? Two of the constructions I consider in this chapter
(right node raising and wh-questions with conjoined wh-pronouns) suggest
that there must be a way to linearize shared elements without movement.
This shows that we need to explore non-movement solutions as well.
There are many different ways that have been explored in the literature
to handle linearization of multidominant structures. One is to rely on lin-
earization algorithms devised specifically to handle such structures. Some
examples of such linearization algorithms are given in (22a–d).
(22) a.
(Williams 1978:42)
b. Given an RPM [reduced phrase marker, B.C] containing distinct
terminal strings, x1
, x2
, xn
, for each element yi
of xi
, yi
not an element
of xi+1
, there is an element yi+1
of xi+1
, yi+1
not an element of xi
, such
that yi
precedes yi+1
. (Goodall 1987:23)
c. If A is a 3D-node and A dominates B and C, then at PF A and B
precede C. (Muadz 1991:59)
d. Let X, Y, Z be variables ranging over terminal nodes or sequences of
terminal nodes.
(i) X P′ Y iff for every x in X′ and y in Y′ xPy.14
(ii) X Pi
Y iff for the final element x in X′ and the initial element y in
Y, xPi
y. (Moltmann 1992a:76)
While such algorithms generally accomplish what they were designed to
accomplish (namely, they linearize the structures they were designed
to linearize), it is not clear how (if at all) they can be derived from more
general syntactic principles.
A different way to linearize multidominant structures comes from the
work of Wilder (1999b, 2008), Gračanin-Yüksek (2007, in press) and
Johnson (2007), who make multidominant structures linearizable by
modifying the definition of c-command in a way that does not affect non-
multiply dominated structures. This is what allows them to linearize multi-
ply dominated elements in situ. In general, they all rely on the intuition
X1
[X1 (and) … and Xn]
and
Xn
3.5 Linearization of symmetric Merge structures 53
that the LCA can ignore some of the ordering statements (namely those
that would otherwise lead to violations of antisymmetry). For example,
in (20a) above, repeated as (23a), the instructions to linearize the multiply
dominated node C inside A can be ignored. This excludes the orders given
in (23b) and (23c) and leaves us with (23d) as the only possibility.
(23) a. B
A B
a b C
c D
d
b. acdb
c. acdbcd
d. abcd
Wilder (1999b) accomplishes this by introducing the notion of full domi-
nance, given in (24a–b). Full dominance is more restrictive than standard
dominance. For example, in (23a), neither B nor A fully dominates the
shared node C.
(24) a. X fully dominates α iff X dominates α and X does not share α.
b. α is shared by X and Y iff (i) neither of X and Y dominates the other,
and (ii) both X and Y dominate α. (Wilder 1999b:590–1)
Furthermore, both his definition of c-command and his definition of d(A),
which is the image of A, rely on full dominance rather than standard domi-
nance.
(25) a. X c-commands Y only if X does not fully dominate Y
b. d(A) = the set of terminals fully dominated by A.
(Wilder 1999b:590–1)
The original version of the LCA yields a set containing conflicting lin-
earization specifications for (23a). The set is repeated in (26a). However,
Wilder’s modified version of the LCA removes the pairs <c,b>, <d,b> from
the set, yielding (26b). Now the terminals of C, not being fully dominated
by A, are not included in the image of A. Thus, c-command by A does not
cause the terminals of C to precede anything that A precedes. This means
that the terminals of C are going to be linearized in their position in the
54 Symmetry in Merge
second “conjunct”. The resulting ordering in (26b) is total, transitive and
antisymmetric.
(26) a. d(A) = {<a,b>, <a,c>, <a,d>, <b,c>, <b,d>, <c,b>, <d,b>}
b. d(A) = {<a,b>, <a,c>, <a,d>, <b,c>, <b,d>}
I will not discuss the details of Wilder’s linearization system any further
here. As we will see in Section 3.6.3, which deals with right node raising, it
can derive one of the definitional characteristics of right node raising: the
requirement that the shared element be rightmost in both conjuncts.
The upshot of the discussion in this section is that there are ways to
linearize multidominant structures with relatively minor modifications to
the definition of c-command (which have no negative effect on standard
non-multidominant structures). This removes perhaps the biggest theo-
retical obstacle to multidominant structures: the claim that they should be
banned from the grammar because there is no way to linearize them.
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge
3.6.1 Across-the-board wh-questions
The insight that across-the-board (ATB) wh-questions involve a multi-
dominant structure goes back at least to Williams (1978; see also Goodall
1983, 1987, Muadz 1991 and Moltmann 1992a for similar early propos-
als). For these researchers, however, multidominance was a property of
coordination, not of ATB movement. The two conjuncts in a coordinate
structure, irrespective of the presence or absence of ATB movement of any
sort, were placed in two parallel dimensions or planes along the lines sche-
matized in (27b).15
(27) a. Jane and Alice saw Bill.
b.
(cf. Goodall 1987:23)
The account I developed in Citko (2005), which is the account I expand
on below, differs from these early accounts in that it divorced multidomi-
nance from coordination and thus maintained an asymmetric approach
to coordination, for which we saw a lot of evidence in Chapter 2. To see
TP TP
DP DP T
Jane Alice vP
saw Bill
T
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 55
how it works, consider the derivation of the sentence given in (28a). Its
Numeration, given in (28b), contains only one wh-pronoun, which is
going to be shared between the two conjuncts. The end structure is given
in (28c).
(28) a. What did John lose and Bill find?
b. N = {what1
, John1
, lose1
, Bill1
, find1
, v1
, T1,
C1
, and1
}
c. CP
C &P
TP1 &
T1 & TP2
T vP1
T2
John v1 vP2
v VP1 Bill v2
lose VP2
find what
The wh-pronoun is not the only shared element; v, T and C heads are also
shared between the two conjuncts. The evidence that they are shared comes
from the following considerations. The reason why T is shared is due to the
fact that the two conjuncts in an ATB question have to agree in tense, as
shown by the ungrammaticality of the examples in (29a–b), in which one
conjunct is in the present and the other one in the past.16
(29) a. * Whati did John lose ti and Bill will find ti?
b. * Whati will Bill find ti and John lost ti?
By the same logic, the fact that voice mismatches are impossible in ATB
questions implies that the v head has to be shared as well. In (30a–b), one
conjunct is active and the other one passive, and the result is ungrammatical.
(30) a. * Whati did John lose ti and was found ti by John?
b. * Whati was found ti by Bill and John lose ti?
There are a number of movements that take place in (28c); the subjects
move to their respective [Spec,TP] positions, T moves to C, and the wh-
phrase moves to [Spec,CP]. Furthermore, movement has to proceed
56 Symmetry in Merge
through phase edges, which means that the wh-phrase stops in [Spec,vP]
(yet another shared position) on its way to [Spec,CP].17
(31) CP
whati C
C &P
TP &
Johnj T & TP
T vP Billj T
ti vP vP
tj v vP
v VP tj v
lose v VP
find ti
After all the movements have taken place, the structure can be linearized
without any glitches, as all the shared elements either moved to non-shared
positions or were null to begin with.
There are a number of empirical advantages of such a symmetric
approach to ATB wh-movement; (32a–d) lists the ones I focus on in the
rest of this section.
(32) a. ATB wh-movement does not obey the Coordinate Structure
Constraint;
b. Multiple ATB wh-movement is not possible;
c. ATB wh-movement is subject to matching effects;
d. Covert ATB movement is not possible.
The exceptional status of ATB wh-questions with respect to the Coordinate
Structure Constraint is illustrated in (33a–b). The ungrammatical (33a)
involves movement out of only one conjunct, whereas the grammatical
(33b) involves movement out of both conjuncts simultaneously.
(33) a. * Whati
did John lose glasses and Bill find ti
?
b. Whati
did John lose ti
and Bill find ti
?
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 57
On the Parallel Merge account, this contrast follows from the fact that
there is one wh-pronoun shared between two conjuncts.
The second property, i.e. the lack of multiple fronting in ATB questions,
is illustrated by the fact that there are no ATB questions involving a config-
uration schematized in (34), in which the number of fronted wh-elements
matches the total number of gaps inside the two conjuncts. In (34), this
number is two (there are two fronted wh-phrases and a total of two wh-
traces, one in each conjunct).
(34) [CP
WHi
WHj
[TP
…. ti
…] and [TP
…tj
…] ]
The ungrammaticality of the English example in (35a), which involves
precisely such a configuration, can be attributed to the fact that English
complementizers do not allow multiple specifiers (or, to put it in a more
theory-neutral fashion, to the fact that English does not allow multiple wh-
fronting), which is what accounts for the ungrammaticality of (35b).
(35) a. * Whatj
whati
did John lose ti
and Bill find tj
?
b. * Whoi
whatj
ti
find tj
?
Interestingly, questions of this sort are also impossible in languages that
allow multiple wh-fronting, as shown by the ungrammaticality of (36) in
Polish, which is a multiple wh-fronting language.
(36) * Coi
coj
Jan zgubił ti
a Piotr znalazł tj
?
what what Jan lost and Piotr found
‘What did Jan lose and Piotr find?’
This does not imply that Polish ATB wh-questions can never contain more
than one fronted wh-pronoun. Example (37a) is grammatical in spite of
containing two fronted wh-pronouns. Note, however, that in this case both
wh-pronouns are moved from both conjuncts. This contrasts with the
ungrammatical example in (37b), in which one of the two moves only from
one conjunct.
(37) a. Coj
komui
Jan kupił tj
ti
a Piotr wysłał tj
ti
?
what whom Jan bought and Piotr sent
‘What did Jan buy for whom and Piotr send to whom?’
b. * Coj
komui
Jan kupił tj
ti
a Piotr zgubił tj
?
what whom Jan bought and Piotr lost
‘What did Jan buy for whom and Piotr lose?’
The third property listed in (32) involves case, in particular the require-
ment that the fronted wh-phrase satisfy the case requirements imposed
on it within both conjuncts, as shown by Borsley (1983), Dyła (1984) and
58 Symmetry in Merge
Franks (1993, 1995). This is what accounts for the contrast in grammatical-
ity between (38a) and (38b); (38a) is grammatical because the verbs inside
the two conjuncts (lubić ‘like’ and kochać ‘love’) assign the same case on
their complements. (38b), on the other hand, is ungrammatical because the
verb in one conjunct (lubić ‘like’) assigns accusative case and the verb inside
the other conjunct (ufać ‘trust’) dative. This results in ungrammaticality
irrespective of whether a dative or an accusative wh-pronoun is used.18
(38) a. Kogo Jan lubi tACC
a Piotr kocha tACC
?
who.acc Jan like and Piotr love
‘Whom does Jan like and Piotr love?’
b. * Kogo/*komu Jan lubi tACC
a Piotr ufa tDAT
?
who.acc/who.dat Jan like and Piotr trust
‘Whom does Jan like and Piotr trust?’
This case matching requirement follows from the fact that there is a single
wh-pronoun shared between two clauses.
Another property that follows nicely from the symmetric structure for
ATB questions involves covert ATB movement. On the assumption that
movement of the shared element is required for the structure to be linear-
izable, covert ATB wh-movement is predicted not to be possible. This is
indeed what we find; the Japanese and Korean examples in (39a–b) with
wh-pronouns in situ can only be interpreted as questions about two dis-
tinct individuals. They cannot be questions about a single individual. For
such an interpretation to be possible, the wh-pronouns have to undergo
overt ATB movement, just as in English-type languages.19
(39) a. John-ga dono hito-o aisitei-te Mary-ga dono Japanese
John-nom which person-acc love-and Mary-nom which
hito-o nikundeiru-no?
person-acc hate-Q
‘Which person does John love and which person does Mary hate?’
b. John-i enu salam-ul salangha-ko Mary-ka enu Korean
John-nom which person-acc like-and Mary-nom which
salam-ul miweha-ni?
person-acc hate-Q
‘Which person does John like and which person does Mary hate’
(Cho and Zhou 2002:523)
Furthermore, as shown by Bošković and Franks (2000), ATB quantifier
raising, which is covert in languages like English, does not exist. The lack
of the interpretation in which the universally quantified noun phrases have
wide scope over existentially quantified ones in (40a–b) provides evidence.
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 59
(40) a. Some delegate represented every candidate and nominated every
candidate. some > every, * every > some
b. Some boy hugged every girl and kissed
every girl. some > every, * every > some
(Bošković and Franks 2000:114)
The symmetric account outlined above is by no means the only conceiv-
able account of ATB questions; prominent alternatives involve sideward
movement (as proposed by Nunes 1999, 2001, 2004 and Hornstein and
Nunes 2002) or null operator movement (as proposed by Franks 1993,
1995, Munn 1993, 2001, among others). Let me thus conclude this section
by comparing the multidominant account advocated here with these two
alternatives.
Sideward movement involves movement across two disjoint trees, sche-
matized in (41).
(41) K L
… αi … … ti …
For this derivation to converge, somewhere down the line K and L must be
integrated into a single object. This is what happens in (42); L becomes the
complement of X and K its specifier.
(42) XP
K X
… αi … X L
… ti …
In ATB wh-questions, sideward movement would take place across two
conjuncts, as shown in (43).
(43) CP
whati C
C &P
TP1 &
John lose ti & TP2
Bill find ti
60 Symmetry in Merge
The Parallel Merge account and the sideward movement account are alike
in that they both involve a single wh-phrase (either moving “from” one
conjunct to the other or being merged in both conjuncts simultaneously).20
Both have to relax some fairly standard assumptions about phrase struc-
ture or movement; the Parallel Merge approach relaxes the Single Root
Condition and the sideward movement approach relaxes the assumption
that movement happens within a single syntactic object. Furthermore,
both approaches have to allow a single element to enter into multiple
relationships. A wh-phrase in an object ATB wh-question has to satisfy
case requirements of two verbs, either by moving from the complement
position of one verb to the complement position of the other verb or by
being merged as a complement of both. Therein lies an important differ-
ence between the two approaches. We saw above that on the multidomi-
nant account, the process responsible for multiple case feature valuation
can be thought of as a mirror image of Hiraiwa’s (2005) Multiple Agree,
i.e. Agree between two distinct Probes and a single Goal. On the sideward
movement account, the wh-phrase literally moves from one case position
to another one. This seems to require a certain amount of look-ahead; the
wh-phrase has to keep its case features active after Agree in the first con-
junct. Furthermore, the values assigned to it in both conjuncts have to be
identical. Typically, movement from one case position to another case posi-
tion is deemed to be impossible; once an element has had its case feature
valued, it is “frozen in place.”In other constructions that have been claimed
to involve movement to a case position, the case that the moving element
gets in its initial position can be “overridden” by the case it gets in its final
position. This is typically what happens in headed relatives on the so-called
head promotion account; the head moves from the relative clause-internal
position to the relative clause-external head position. Both of these posi-
tions are case positions. The contrast from Polish in (44a–b) provides an
illustration. In (44a), the relative clause-internal position is a position in
which the head gets accusative case, and the relative clause external posi-
tion is a nominative case position. And this is the case that surfaces on the
head. Crucially, the head cannot maintain its “lower” accusative case, as is
shown by the ungrammaticality of (44b).21
(44) a. Książkai
, którą wczoraj przeczytałam ti
, jest na liście
book.nom which.acc yesterday read tacc
is on list
bestsellerów.
bestsellers
‘The book that I read yesterday is on the bestsellers list.’
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 61
b. * Książkęi
, którą wczoraj przeczytałam ti
, jest na liście
book.acc which.acc yesterday read tacc
is on list
bestsellerów.
bestsellers
‘The book that I read yesterday is on the bestsellers list.’
The null operator movement alternative, due to Munn (1993), assimilates
ATB wh-questions to parasitic gaps, and assumes both involve movement
of an empty operator (in addition to real wh-movement), as shown in
(45a–b).22
(45) a. Which papersj
did Mary read tj
and OPi
John file ti
?
b. Which paperj
did Mary file tj
OPi
without reading ti
?
The only difference between the two is the fact that ATB questions involve
movement of a null operator inside the second conjunct (rather than an
adjunct), as illustrated more explicitly in (46).23
(46) CP
which papersi C
C TP
did
TP BP
Mary read ti OPi B
B TP
and
John file ti
While the empty operator movement account does not necessarily predict
no differences whatsoever between parasitic gaps and ATB questions,
it does establish a fundamental parallelism between the two.24
This is
counter to the well-known observation, due to Postal (1993), that ATB wh-
questions are in general more permissive than parasitic gaps. For example,
parasitic gaps are only possible with DP gaps, whereas ATB questions are
not subject to this restriction.25
(47) a. * How tiredi can one be ti without feeling pg?
b. How heavyi do you think Bill is ti and Peter will become ti?
Hornstein and Nunes (2002) argue that an independently motivated par-
allelism requirement on coordinate structures is responsible for the more
permissive nature of ATB questions.
62 Symmetry in Merge
An interesting question that arises for both the null operator account
and the sideward movement account of ATB questions and parasitic gaps
concerns a crosslinguistic correlation between the availability of ATB
questions and the availability of parasitic gap constructions. There are lan-
guages that are reported to lack parasitic gap constructions; however, I am
not aware of any reports of languages lacking ATB questions.26
While a
typological study to test this correlation would be an interesting research
endeavor, it goes beyond the scope of this chapter.
To sum up briefly, we have seen in this section how the properties of
ATB wh-questions follow from (and thus provide an argument for) a sym-
metric structure. This is my first empirical argument in favor of symmetry
in Merge. In the next section, I turn to the second case study, wh-questions
with conjoined wh-pronouns.
3.6.2 Wh-questions with conjoined wh-pronouns
Another construction whose properties follow nicely from a symmetric
structure is a wh-question with two (or more) conjoined wh-phrases, exem-
plified in (48a–b).27
(48) a. What and where did Sally sing? (Gračanin-Yüksek 2007:18)
b. What and why did you eat? (Gračanin-Yüksek 2007:40)
I will henceforth refer to such questions as wh&wh questions. Descriptively
speaking, they are a “mirror image” of ATB questions; in ATB questions,
there are two clauses sharing a single wh-phrase, and in wh&wh questions,
there are two wh-phrases “sharing” a single clause.
Such questions exhibit a number of puzzling syntactic (as well as seman-
tic) properties. The ones noted in the literature are listed in (49a–d).
(49) a. Wh&wh questions allow violations of the Law of Coordination of
Likes;
b. Arguments of different grammatical functions cannot be
coordinated;
c. Wh&wh questions are only possible with optionally transitive verbs;
d. Wh&wh questions favor single pair readings.
Some of these properties, most notably (49b) and (49c) are subject to
crosslinguistic variation. In this chapter, I focus solely on English wh&wh
questions and refer the interested reader to Citko (in press-a), Citko
and Gračanin-Yüksek (submitted), Gribanova (2009), Scott (2010) and
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 63
Tomaszewicz (2010) for a discussion of crosslinguistic variation, with the
focus on Slavic languages (Croatian in Gračanin-Yüksek 2007, Polish in
Citko in press-a and Tomaszewicz 2010 and Russian in Gribanova 2009
and Scott 2010). The description and account of English wh&wh ques-
tions I summarize below is that of Gračanin-Yüksek (2007), which is
the first systematic description of such questions couched in minimalist
terms. For a non-minimalist alternative, see Whitman (2002, 2004). The
first property listed in (49) is illustrated by the contrast in (50a–b). It
shows that two wh-pronouns of different categories, unlike their non-wh
counterparts, can be coordinated without violating the Law of the
Coordination of Likes.
(50) a. [What]DP
and [where]AdvP
did Sally sing?
b. * Mary sang [an aria]DP
and [at the Met]PP
.
The second property involves restrictions on what kinds of wh-elements
can be coordinated. The contrast in (51a–b) shows that in English, coor-
dination of an argument wh-phrase with an adjunct wh-phrase is possible,
but coordination of two argument wh-phrases (such as a subject with an
object) is not.
(51) a. What and why did you read?
b. * Who and what read?
The third property has to do with the kinds of verbs that are possible in
wh&wh questions, to be more specific, with the transitivity restrictions on
these verbs. In English, wh&wh questions are impossible with obligato-
rily transitive verbs (if one of the coordinated wh-phrases is an object),
as observed by Whitman (2002). This is what accounts for the contrast in
(52a–b).
(52) a. What and why did you eat?
b. * What and why did you devour?
Intuitively, this contrast is related to the contrast in (53a–b) below, and the
ungrammaticality of both (52b) and (53b) reduces to the fact that the verb
devour is obligatorily transitive.
(53) a. What did you eat and why did you eat?
b. *What did you devour and why did you devour?
64 Symmetry in Merge
The final property of wh&wh questions to consider involves interpretation,
in particular the fact that they favor single pair readings. Thus, the ques-
tion in (54) can be given the single pair answer in (55a) or (55b) but not the
pair list one in (55c).28
(54) What and where did Sally sing?
(55) a. Sally sang Mozart and she sang at the Met. √SP
b. Sally sang Mozart at the Met. √SP
c. Sally sang an aria at the Met, a hymn at church and a lullaby
at home. *PL
In this respect, English wh&wh questions differ from standard (i.e. non-
coordinated) multiple wh-questions, which exhibit the opposite pattern;
they disallow single pair answers and allow pair list answers. The question
in (56) allows the answer in (57a) but disallows the one in (57b).
(56) Where did Sally sing what?
(57) a. Sally sang an aria at the Met, a hymn at church and a lullaby at
home. √PL
b. Sally sang an aria at the Met. *SP
This contrast between coordinated and non-coordinated multiple wh-
questions is particularly visible in examples which are pragmatically biased
towards a single pair reading, such as the ones in (58a–b), modeled on
Whitman’s (2004) examples, in which the event being questioned involves
dying or being born:
(58) a. # How did John die when?
b. # When was John born where?
Corresponding coordinated wh&wh questions, on the other hand, are fine,
as they imply a single event of dying or being born:
(59) a. When and how did John die?
b. When and where was John born?
Gračanin-Yüksek (2007) argues that English wh&wh questions involve a
bi-clausal structure in which everything but the wh-phrases themselves is
shared between two CPs, as shown in (60a). All the shared elements, indi-
cated in bold, are in a symmetric relationship with other elements inside
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 65
the two conjuncts. In the course of the derivation, both wh-phrases move
to the specifiers of their respective CPs, as shown in (60b).29
(60) a.
Gračanin-Yüksek (2007) further shows that all the properties of wh&wh
questions listed in (49) follow from such a symmetric structure. The fact
that wh&wh questions allow coordination of unlike elements is only
apparent; what is really coordinated are two CPs (i.e. like categories), in
perfect compliance with the Law of the Coordination of Likes. The fact
that arguments with different grammatical functions (such as a subject and
an object) cannot be coordinated is linked to the fact that English does
not allow null subjects. The structure of the ungrammatical example in
(61a) is given in (61b). Since the wh-phrases themselves are not shared, the
second conjunct would have to a have a pro subject, which is not allowed
in English.










b.
66 Symmetry in Merge
&P
CP1 &
whati C1 and CP2
did TP1
whyj C2
you T1
TP2
T vP1 T2
v VP1
vP2
devour ti VP2
VP2 tj
Transitivity restrictions in wh&wh questions can also be attributed to the
structure, in particular to the fact that each wh-pronoun is inside a dif-
ferent conjunct. Thus, in the ungrammatical example in (62a), the second
conjunct contains just the adjunct wh-phrase, which leaves the selection
requirements of the verb devour not met inside this conjunct.
(62) a. * What and why did you devour?
b.
&P
&’
CP1 and CP2
whoi C1 whatj C2
C TP1 TP2
ti T1 pro T2

T vP1
vP2
v VP1 VP2
ate tj
(61) a. * Who and what ate?
b.
Lastly, the fact that wh&wh questions favor single pair interpretations
also follows from the structure, in particular from the fact that the two wh-
phrases end up in two different conjuncts. As first pointed out by Kazenin
(2001; see also Citko in press-a and Citko and Gračanin-Yüksek submitted),
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 67
this leads to a violation of the Coordinate Structure Constraint if the
second wh-pronoun “tries” to adjoin to the first one. This in turn is neces-
sary for LF absorption, which turns two unary operators into one binary
operator (see Higginbotham and May 1981 and Kitahara 1993 for details
on how LF absorption works). LF absorption is what gives rise to pair
list readings. Crucially, it is subject to locality, and it is blocked if the two
quantifiers are separated by an island boundary, as shown by Dayal (2002,
2006), Hagstrom (1998), among others. The lack of pair list readings in
wh&wh questions thus reduces to a Coordinate Structure Condition viola-
tion. LF absorption is impossible in (63) because it would have to involve
wh-movement of why from one conjunct to another.
(63) [&P
[CP
whati
did John eat ti
] [& [CP
whyi
did John eat ti
]]]
Let me conclude this section with a brief comparison of the symmetric
structure with an alternative, involving (backwards) ellipsis (proposed
by Browne 1972 and Giannakidou and Merchant 1998).30
On such an
account, wh&wh questions differ from sluicing only with respect to the
directionality of ellipsis.
(64) a. [CP
What did John eat] and [CP
why did John eat]?
b. [CP
What did John eat] and [CP
why did John eat]?
However, the contrast in (65a–b) would be problematic for such an
account, as it shows that wh&wh questions are more restricted than their
sluicing counterparts. This is somewhat surprising if they involve the same
basic structure and differ only with respect to whether ellipsis takes place in
the first or the second conjunct, as shown in (66a–b).31
(65) a. * Who and why did John meet?
b. Who did John meet and why?
(66) a. [CP
Who did John meet why] and [CP
why did John meet who]?
b. [CP
Who did John meet why] and [CP
why did John meet who]?
Gračanin-Yüksek (2007) gives two further arguments against assimilating
wh&wh questions to backwards sluicing. One involves scope and the other
one, which is the one I summarize below, a process called swiping. Swiping
inverts wh-phrases and prepositions in sluicing constructions, as shown
in (67a). It is also possible in backwards sluicing, as shown in (67b) but
not in non-sluicing contexts, as shown in (67c). This predicts that swiping
should be possible in wh&wh questions if they are derived by sluicing. The
fact that it is not, as shown in (67d), shows that wh&wh questions cannot
involve backwards sluicing.
68 Symmetry in Merge
(67) a. I know that Mary danced with someone, but I don’t know who with.
b. Although we don’t know yet who from, we know she received a
package last Monday with instructions on bomb assembly.
c. * I don’t know who with Mary danced.
d. * Mary doesn’t know who with and why Bill danced.
(Gračanin-Yüksek 2007:157)
3.6.3 Right node raising
The next construction I consider in this chapter is right node raising, exem-
plified in (68).
(68) John likes __ and Bill dislikes __ TV shows about vampires.
The italicized string is understood to be shared between two conjuncts,
which, given the nature of sharing argued for in this chapter, implies
a Parallel Merge structure of the kind given in (69). This is the analysis
of RNR argued for (or simply assumed by) Bachrach and Katzir (2009),
Citko (in press-c), Johnson (2007), Larson (2007), McCawley (1982), De
Vries (2005a, 2008, 2009), De Vos and Vicente (2005) and Wilder (1999a,
2008), among many others. The symmetry involved in this structure is
quite obvious; the pivot TV shows about vampires stands in a symmetric
relationship with other elements inside the two conjuncts.
(69) &P
TP &
John T & TP
T vP Bill T
v VP T vP
likes v VP
dislikes DP
TV shows about vampires
The core properties of right node raising discussed in the literature are
listed in (70a–g). And the question I focus on is how these properties favor
the symmetric structure in (69) over alternatives involving movement.
(70) a. RNR does not obey islands;
b. RNR can target non-constituents;
c. RNR allows P-stranding in languages that disallow P-stranding;
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 69
d. RNR element is treated in situ by binding principles;
e. RNR element is treated in situ by NPI licensing principles;
f. RNR element has to be right-peripheral;
g. RNR can have scope over both conjuncts;
h. RNR shows case proximity effects.
Many of the properties listed in (70) show that the pivot behaves as if it has
not moved. This is problematic for movement approaches to right node
raising, in which the pivot, instead of being shared between two conjuncts
as a result of symmetric Parallel Merge, undergoes ATB movement to
some position above the coordination level, as argued for by Postal (1998),
Ross (1967) and Sabbagh (2007), among others. The result of such move-
ment is given in (71).32
(71)
&P
&P DPi
TP & TV shows about vampires
John T & TP
T vP Bill T
v VP T vP
likes ti v VP
dislikes ti
As noted by most proponents of non-movement approaches to RNR,
the first five properties in (70) pose significant problems for movement
approaches. Perhaps the strongest argument comes from the insensitiv-
ity of RNR to island constraints. The contrast between (72a) and (72b)
shows that RNR does not obey the Wh Island Constraint, and the con-
trast between (73a) and (73b) shows that it does not obey the Complex NP
Island Constraint either. This is surprising in a movement account; in (72a)
the pivot his great song about the death of Emmett Till would have to move
out of the embedded wh-island headed by when, and in (73a) the pivot pic-
tures of Fred would have to move out of the complex DP island headed by
a man.33,34
70 Symmetry in Merge
(72) a. John wonders when Bob Dylan wrote _ and Mary wants to know
when he recorded _ his great song about the death of Emmett Till.
b. * Whati
does John wonder when Bob Dylan wrote ti
?
(Abels 2004:5)
(73) a. Mary knows a man who buys __, and Bill knows a man who
sells __ pictures of Fred. (Wexler and Culicover 1980:299)
b. * Whati
does Mary know a man who buys ti
?
One could hypothesize that the reason why RNR does not show any
island effects is somehow linked to the fact that movement is to the right
(not left). This cannot be the reason, as RNR is also insensitive to con-
straints on rightward movement.35
As originally noted by Ross (1967),
other cases of rightward movement (i.e. extraposition and Heavy NP Shift)
are subject to the so-called Right Roof Constraint. One formulation of this
constraint is given in (74a). More recent formulations, such as the one due
to Sabbagh (2007), given in (74b), make reference to cyclic nodes (which
are vPs and PPs for Sabbagh) or phase nodes instead:
(74) Right Roof Constraint
a. An element cannot move rightward out of the clause in which it
originates.
b. Rightward movement may move and right-adjoin an element X to
the cyclic node in which X is merged, but no further.
(Sabbagh 2007:351)
The Right Roof Constraint is what accounts for the contrast below. In
(75a), the moved element moves out of only one cyclic node, vP, whereas in
(75b) it moves out of two cyclic nodes, PP and vP.
(75) a. John [vP
edited a review __ for Sue] of Jamie’s article.
b. *Josh [vP
edited a review [PP
of an article __] for Jamie], about verb
movement. (Sabbagh 2007:350)
Interestingly, RNR does not obey the Right Roof Constraint; in (76) the
pivot the dean’s office would have to move out of two cyclic nodes.
(76) Joss [vP
walked suddenly [PP
into__ ] ] and Maria [vP
stormed quickly
[PP
out of __ ] ] the dean’s office. (Sabbagh 2007:351)
The second argument against a movement account comes from the fact
that RNR does not need to target constituents, as shown in (77). On the
symmetric approach advocated here, nothing prevents two elements from
being shared independently, or a non-maximal projection from being
shared between two conjuncts.36,37
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 71
(77) I borrowed __ and my sisters stole __a total of $3000 from the bank.
(Abbott 1976:642)
The third argument against a movement account of RNR comes from
preposition stranding, in particular from the fact that there are languages
that do not allow preposition stranding in questions (or other movement
constructions) but allow it in RNR. Examples (78a–c) show this for Irish,
(79a–c) for Indonesian and (80a–c) for Polish, all of which are languages
that disallow P-stranding in questions but allow it in RNR.
(78) a. * Bhí mé ag éisteacht le inné clár mór Irish
was I listen.prog with yesterday program great
fada ar an ráidió faoin toghachán.
long on the radio about-the election
‘I was listening yesterday to a great long program on the radio
about the election.’
b. Brian Mag Uidhir… ag glacadh le __ agus ag cabhru
Brian Maguire take.prog with and help.prog
le __ plandail a dtailte fein
with planting their lands refl
‘Brian Maguire … accepting and helping with the planting of their
own lands.’
(McCloskey 1986:184–5)
(79) a. * Mana Merrie sudah pergi ke? Indonesian
where Mary past go to
‘Where did Mary go to?’
b. * Allena pulang dari __dan Merrie pergi ke__ sekolah.
Allena go.back from and Mary go to school
‘Allena went home from and Mary went to school.’
(Muadz 1991:273)
(80) a. * Którym stołemi
książka leży pod ti
? Polish
which table book lies under
‘Which table is the book under?’
b. Książka leży pod __ a lampa wisi nad __ naszym nowym.
book lies under and lamp hangs over our new
stołem
table
‘The book is under and the lamp hangs over our new table.’
Preposition stranding can provide an argument against a movement
account of RNR even in a language like English. As pointed out by Ross
(1967), extraposition disallows preposition stranding, as shown in (81).
Thus, if RNR were rightward movement, we would expect it to pattern
with extraposition and disallow preposition stranding as well.
72 Symmetry in Merge
(81) * John read about ti
yesterday [a new cure for cancer]i
.
The fourth argument comes from the behavior of RNR with respect to
binding, discussed by Levine (1985). Example (82a) shows that the pivot
behaves as if it has not moved with respect to Principle C effects, and
(82b–c) make the same point with respect to Principles A and B effects.
(82) a. * Shei
disliked __ and I hated __ that picture of Maryi
.
(Levine 1985:496)
b. I liked __ and Maryi
disliked __ that picture of herselfi
.
c. * I liked __ and Maryi
disliked __ a picture of heri
.
Variable binding points towards the same conclusion. Not only can the
pronoun contained in the pivot be bound by the elements contained inside
the two conjuncts (every man and no one in (83a–b)) but it can be bound by
both of them simultaneously. This is unexpected if the pivot his mother has
moved out of the two conjuncts, as it would no longer be c-commanded by
its binders.
(83) a. Every mani
loves __ but no onej
wants to marry __ hisi/j
mother.
b. Every mani
loves __ but no onej
marries __ hisi/j
mother.
(Jacobson 1999:167)
And the fifth argument against a movement account comes from negative
polarity item licensing. Again, we would expect examples of the kind given
in (84) to be ungrammatical if the constituent containing anyone moved
out of the c-command domain of the negation licensing it.
(84) She couldn’t talk to __ and he wouldn’t talk to __ anyone with green hair.
(Johnson 2007:17)
All the properties discussed so far receive a natural account on the sym-
metric structure given in (69) above. Since the pivot does not move, it is
c-commanded by the material inside both conjuncts. This explains the
behavior of the pivot with respect to binding and negative polarity licens-
ing. The lack of movement also explains why RNR does not pattern with
movement constructions with respect to island effects and preposition
stranding.
Some of the properties of RNR listed in (70) do not, strictly speaking,
favor a symmetric approach over a movement approach, and some seem
to allow only a movement approach. In the remainder of this section I
tackle these. The first one involves the requirement that the pivot be at the
right edge of both conjuncts. One formulation of this requirement, due to
Sabbagh (2007), is given in (85) below.
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 73
(85) Right Edge Restriction (Sabbagh 2007:356)
In the configuration:
[[A
….X…] Conj [B
…X…]]
X must be rightmost within A and B before either (i) X can be deleted
from A; (ii) X can be rightward ATB-moved; or (iii) X can be multiply
dominated by A and B.
The contrast between (86a) and (86b) provides an illustration; in (86a)
the pivot (or the gap corresponding to it) is rightmost in both conjuncts,
whereas in (86b) it is not.
(86) a. I [VP
invited into my house __ ] and [VP
congratulated all the winners]
b. * I [VP
gave __ a present] and [VP
congratulated all the winners]
(Wilder 1999b:587)
At first, the Right Edge Restriction does not seem to bear on the issue of
whether RNR involves a symmetric multidominant structure or move-
ment. However, upon further consideration it does seem to favor a multi-
dominant approach. There is no other movement construction that
requires the trace of the moved element to be conjunct-peripheral. ATB
movement is not subject to a restriction of this sort. But some of the lin-
earization algorithms discussed in Section 3.5 above do derive the Right
Edge Restriction. Wilder’s linearization system is a good example. (87)
below gives a partial representation of the ungrammatical example in
(86b). Within the first conjunct, the verb gave is ordered before DP1
all
the winners and DP2
a present. Within the second conjunct, DP2
is ordered
after the conjunction and and the verb congratulated. Since VP1
precedes
VP2
, DP2
is ordered both before and after DP1
. This is a violation of
antisymmetry, which can be remedied by removing DP2
from the structure.
(87) &P
&
VP1 & VP2
V ApplP and V2
gave congratulated
DP1 Appl
all the winners Appl DP2
a present
The last two properties listed in (70) seem to provide an argument
against the symmetric account of RNR. First, Sabbagh (2007) shows
74 Symmetry in Merge
that the pivot can take scope over both conjuncts. In (88a), for example,
the universal quantifier every Germanic language can have wide scope
with respect to the existential quantifier someone inside each conjunct.
Such wide scope is impossible in (88b), which involves a parallel example
without right node raising.
(88) a. John knows someone who speaks, and Bill knows someone who wants
to learn every Germanic language. (∃>∀,∀>∃)
b. John knows someone who speaks every Germanic language.
(∃>∀,*∀>∃)
(Sabbagh 2007:367)
For Sabbagh (2007), this is an argument for a movement approach to RNR.
Bachrach and Katzir (2009), however, provide an alternative explanation for
the facts in (88a–b), relying on delayed Spell-Out of multiply dominated ele-
ments. More specifically, they derive wide scope of the pivot from the idea
that Spell-Out applies only to completely dominated constituents. What this
means is that in (88a) every Germanic language is not spelled out (and con-
sequently, not interpreted as well) till the entire conjunction phrase is built.
Case considerations also appear to raise some issues for a symmetric
account of RNR. In Section 3.6.1, we saw that the shared wh-pronoun in
ATB wh-questions has to satisfy the case requirements imposed on it within
both conjuncts. Since the examples of RNR under consideration here also
involve a DP shared between two conjuncts, we would expect the same kind
of matching. What we find instead is a case proximity effect; mismatches
in case are grammatical as long as the case of the pivot is the one that is
assigned to it within the second conjunct. The relevant examples from
Polish are given in (89a–b).38
The verb kupić ‘buy’ assigns accusative case,
whereas the verb szukać ‘look-for’ assigns genitive case, as indicated by the
subscripts in the glosses. RNR is grammatical as long as the pivot bears the
case required by the verb in the second conjunct, which clearly shows that
proximity is the crucial factor here, not case markedness or case hierarchy.
(89) a. Maria kupiła __ a Jan szuka __ nowego samochodu.
Maria boughtacc
and Jan looks.forgen
new.gen car.gen
‘Maria bought and Jan is looking for a new car.’
b. * Maria kupiła __ a Jan szuka __ nowy samochód.
Maria boughtacc
and Jan looks. forgen
new.acc car.acc
‘Maria bought and Jan is looking for a new car.’
This contrast between ATB questions and RNR constructions does not
constitute a fatal blow to a symmetric structure, as there is an independent
explanation for why RNR should differ from ATB questions in this respect.
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 75
RNR can target elements smaller than DPs, as shown by the examples of
the kind given in (90), which involve two determiners sharing a noun.
(90) Jan sprzedał ten __ a Maria kupiła tamten __samochód.
Jan sold this.acc and Maria bought that.acc car.acc
‘Jan sold this and Maria bought that car.’
If the two determiners have different cases (as in the examples below), the
shared noun agrees in case with the second determiner.
(91) a. Maria kupi ten __ a Jan szuka tamtego __ samochodu.
Maria buy this.acc and Jan looks.for that.gen car.gen
‘Maria will buy this (one) and Jan is looking for that car.’
b. * Maria kupi ten __ a Jan szuka tamtego __ samochód.
Maria buys this.acc and Jan looks.for that.gen car.acc
‘Maria will buy this (one) and Jan is looking for that car.’
Right node raising involving numerals also shows that the shared noun
gets the case assigned to it in the second conjunct. In both of the exam-
ples given in (92), only the noun samochody ‘cars’ is shared, the numerals
are not. What is interesting about these examples is that the two numerals
have different case properties; the numeral trzy ‘three’ agrees in case with
the noun it modifies whereas the numeral pięć ‘five’ assigns genitive case
to it (at least in structural case environments).39
This is a common pattern
across Slavic languages. In such cases the case that surfaces on the noun is
the case assigned to it by the numeral in the second conjunct.
(92) a. Maria kupiła pięć __ a Jan sprzedał trzy __ samochody.
Maria bought five.acc and Jan sold three.acc cars.acc
‘Maria bought five and Jan sold three cars.’
b. Maria kupiła trzy __ a Jan sprzedał __ pięć samochodów.
Maria bought three.acc and Jan sold five.acc cars.gen
‘Maria bought three and Jan sold five cars.’
This suggests that even in examples like (89a–b) a smaller constituent
could be shared (an NP and not a DP). The structure of (89a) (repeated
below as (93a)) is given in (93b). On the assumption that case is a prop-
erty of DPs not NPs, the grammaticality of such examples follows from
the structure. In (93b) Agree takes place between v and D; and since there
are two D heads, there are two instances of Agree, which opens up the
possibility that the two Agree operations could yield two different case
values.
(93) a. Maria kupiła __ a Jan szuka __ nowego samochodu.
Maria boughtacc
and Jan looks.forgen
new.gen car.gen
‘Maria bought and Jan is looking for a new car.’
76 Symmetry in Merge
b.
VP VP
V V DP
D
co ‘what’
The reason why the shared noun phrase agrees in case with the second
determiner follows from the properties of concord, which is generally
responsible for agreement between determiners and nouns. On the assump-
tion that concord, being part of the morphological component, happens at
Spell-Out, the noun will agree with the determiner with which it is spelled
out.
The idea that case matching is a consequence of D sharing (and case
mismatches are a consequence of having two distinct D heads in the struc-
ture) can also explain why ATB wh-questions differ from RNR in that
they require strict case matching. In (94a), in which one verb assigns accu-
sative case and the other one genitive case, neither the accusative nor the
genitive wh-pronoun can satisfy the case requirements of both verbs, as
shown in (94a). The result is ungrammatical. Since sharing in ATB wh-
questions involves wh-phrases, which are always DPs, the structure with
two distinct Ds is not available. The only possible structure is the one in
(94b).
(94) a. *Coi/*czego Maria zgubiła ti-acc a Jan szukał ti-gen ?
what.acc/what.gen Maria lost and Jan looked.for
‘What did Maria lose and Jan look for?’
b.
&P
TP &
Maria T & TP
T vP Jan T
v VP T vP
bought DP v VP
DuC:Acc looks for DP
DuC:Gen NP
new car
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 77
ATB wh-questions involving complex wh-phrases, such as the one in (95a)
below, provide further evidence that the entire DP has to be shared. If only
the NP is shared, the result is ungrammatical, as shown in (95b).
(95) a. Jakie artykułyi
Jan czyta ti
a Maria recenzjonuje ti
?
what articles Jan reads and Maria reviews
‘What articles does Jan read and Maria review?’
b. * Jakie artykułyi
Jan czyta ti
a Maria recenzjonuje które ti
?
what articles Jan reads and Maria reviews which
‘What articles does Jan read and Maria review?’
The reason why D heads have to be shared in ATB wh-questions (but not
in RNR constructions) could be linked to the fact that D is the locus of the
wh-feature forcing movement to [Spec, CP].
To recap, we saw in this section that many properties of right node
raising follow nicely from a symmetric structure in which the right node
raised element is shared between the two conjuncts. We also saw that the
properties that appear to be problematic for such a symmetric structure
turn out to be compatible with it upon closer examination. For example,
case proximity (rather than strict case matching) is compatible with a sym-
metric approach once we allow sharing of constituents that are smaller
than DPs, which is something we saw independent evidence for.
3.6.4 Gapping
The next construction that can be (and has been) analyzed as involving a
symmetric structure is gapping, illustrated in (96). The second conjunct in
a gapping construction typically contains two elements in addition to the
gapped string (indicated with a strikethrough in all the examples in this
section).40
Following the general consensus in the field, I refer to these two
elements as remnants, and to the elements in the first conjunct they corre-
spond to as their correlates.
(96) John likes movies and Mary likes books.
In this section I focus on Polish gapping, which resembles English gapping
in many relevant respects. However, the morphology of Polish makes some
of the properties of gapping I am about to discuss more transparent.
Illustrative examples of Polish gapping are given in (97a–c); (97a) involves
gapping of a main verb, (97b) of a modal auxiliary, and (97c) of a larger
chunk involving a verb and its object (to the exclusion of a PP adjunct).
(97) a. Jan je ryża a Maria je fasolę.
Jan eats rice and Maria eats beans
‘Jan eats rice and Maria beans.’
78 Symmetry in Merge
b. Jan może jeść cukier a Maria może pić alcohol.
Jan can eat sugar and Maria can drink alcohol
‘Jan can eat sugar and Maria drink alcohol.’
c. Jan je ryż na śniadanie a Maria je ryż na obiad.
Jan eats rice for breakfast and Maria eats rice for dinner
‘Jan eats rice for breakfast and Maria for dinner.’
The general structure for gapping I defend in this section is given in (98)
below (see also Kasai 2007). This is the structure underlying examples of
the kind given in (97a). The basic idea is that the gapped portion is shared
between the two conjuncts. In this example there are two gapped elements,
the main verb and v. The two are shared individually, and more complex
cases of gapping will involve more instances of sharing. The intuition that
the verb is shared is pretty clear; the missing verb in the second conjunct is
understood to be identical to the overt verb in the first conjunct. However,
I argue below, as well as in Citko (submitted), that v also has to be shared.
(98) TP
T AspP
Asp &P
&
vP & vP
DP v DP v
v VP VP
V DP DP
The symmetry in this structure involves the relationship of the shared v
and V heads to their complements, the two VPs and the two DP objects.
Such a symmetric structure combines the insights of two types of existing
accounts; it follows Goodall (1987), Moltmann (1992a) and Muadz (1991)
in that it analyzes gapping in a multidominant way, and it follows Johnson
(1996/2003, 2000, 2009) in that it treats gapping as involving coordination
of small conjuncts (vPs not TPs). While a complete discussion of Johnson’s
arguments in favor of vP (as opposed to TP) coordination in gapping
would lead us too far off course, let me briefly mention one argument here,
involving scope. Johnson (2000) shows that small conjunct coordination
can explain why gapped sentences differ from their non-gapped counter-
parts, in that they allow negation to have wide scope over both conjuncts
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 79
(see also Lin 2000, 2001, 2002, Lopez and Winkler 2003, Oerhle 1987,
Repp 2008 and Siegel 1984 for a discussion of negation in gapping). This is
illustrated in (99) and (100) below. (99a) is most naturally paraphrased as
(99c), not (99b). Similarly, (100a) is paraphrased as (100c), not (100b). In
other words, (99a) is interpreted as a disjunction of two negative statements
in spite of the fact that it contains the conjunction and, whereas (100a) is
interpreted as a conjunction of two negative statements in spite of the fact
that it contains the disjunction or. This is surprising on the ellipsis account,
on which (99a) is derived from (99b) and (100a) from (100b).
(99) a. Mrs. J can’t live in Boston and Mr. J can’t live in L.A.
b. Mrs. J can’t live in Boston and Mr J can’t live in LA.
c. Mrs J can’t live in Boston or Mr J can’t live in LA.
(100) a. Mrs. J can’t live in Boston or Mr. J can’t live in LA.
b. Mrs. J can’t live in Boston or Mr J can’t live in LA.
c. Mrs J can’t live in Boston and Mr J can’t live in LA.
(Lopez and Winkler 2003:237, citing Oerhle 1987)
However, if negation has scope over both conjuncts, the interpretation of
these examples is not surprising at all. This is due to the equivalences given
in (101a–b) below, known as De Morgan’s Laws. This logical equivalence
can only hold if negation has wide scope over both conjuncts in a gapped
structure, and thus provides a nice support for the structure in (98), in
which negation would be merged above the level of coordination and, con-
sequently, would have scope over both conjuncts.
(101) a. NOT (P OR Q) = (NOT P) AND (NOT Q)
b. NOT (P AND Q) = NOT P OR NOT Q
Gapping is subject to a number of interesting restrictions, discussed
quite extensively in the relevant literature (see Citko submitted, Coppock
2001, Culicover and Jackendoff 2005, Hankamer and Sag 1976, Jackendoff
1971, Johnson 2000, 2009, Kuno 1976, Lobeck 1995, Maling 1972, Repp
2008, Ross 1970 and Sag 1976, among many others). The ones I focus on
here are listed in (102a–h), and illustrated below with Polish data. Some
of them provide a direct argument for a symmetric account, others do so
more indirectly, by virtue of being problematic for alternative accounts.
(102) a. Gaps must be surrounded by lexical material;
b. Remnants must be contrastive;
c. Gapping is only possible in coordinate clauses;
d. Gaps require linguistic antecedents;
e. Gapping can target non-constituents;
80 Symmetry in Merge
f. Gapping is sensitive to head directionality;
g. Gapping obeys islands;
h. Gapping requires matching in tense, voice and aspect.
First, a gap needs to be surrounded by lexical material. Example (103) is
ungrammatical because there is nothing following the gap in the second
conjunct.
(103) *Jan lubi ryż a Maria lubi.
Jan likes rice and Maria likes
Second, the remnants have to be distinct. (104a) is ungrammatical because
the subjects are identical, and (104b) is ungrammatical because the objects
are.
(104) a. *Jan je ryż a Jan je fasolę.
Jan eats rice and Jan eats beans
‘Jan eats rice and Jan eats beans.’
b. *Jan je ryż a Maria je ryż.
Jan eats rice and Maria je rice
‘Jan eats rice and Maria eats rice.’
This follows from the requirement, proposed by Kuno (1976), that the rem-
nants (and their correlates) have to represent new information. (105) below
provides an illustration; the two subjects are distinct, but since they are
coindexed, the subject inside the second (gapped) conjunct does not repre-
sent new information.
(105) *Johni
eats peas and hei
eats rice. (Kuno 1976:309)
Polish provides a nice illustration of this contrastiveness requirement,
as the conjunction used in gapping constructions is different from the
conjunction used in run-of-the-mill coordinate structures. The two con-
junctions are referred to in the literature as contrastive and consecutive
conjunctions, respectively. In a typological study of coordinating strate-
gies, Malchukov (2004) describes consecutive conjunctions as those that
indicate a temporal or a logical sequence, and contrastive conjunctions as
those that indicate contrast between two conjuncts. In English, both are
expressed by means of the same conjunction and, as shown in (106a–b).
(106a) expresses a sequence of events, whereas (106b) expresses contrast
between two events.
(106) a. John went to the store and bought some bread.
b. John went to the store and Mary went to the movies.
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 81
In Polish, on the other hand, consecutive and contrastive coordination is
expressed by distinct lexical items, i and a, respectively. I will henceforth
gloss the Polish contrastive conjunction as andc
.41
Only the consecutive con-
junction i is possible in (107a), which is a counterpart of (106a), and only
the contrastive conjunction a is possible in (107b), which is a counterpart
of (106b).
(107) a. Jan poszedł do sklepu i/ *a kupił chleb.
Jan went to store and/andC
bought bread
‘Jan went to the store and bought bread.’
b. Jan poszedł do sklepu a/ *i Maria pojechała do kina.
Jan went to store andc
/and Maria went to cinema
‘Jan went to the store and Maria to the movies.’
As shown by Frajzyngier (1986), there are other contexts that require the
use of the contrastive conjunction in Polish. For example, it is also used in
situations in which the second conjunct is not a logical consequence of the
first one or contains an element of surprise, which is what accounts for the
contrast between (108a) and (108b); drowning while skiing is surprising
whereas drowning at the beach is somewhat less so.
(108) a. Poszedł na narty a utopił się.
went to ski andc
drowned refl
‘He went skiing and drowned.’
b. Poszedł na plażę i/ *a utopił się.
went to beach and/andc
drowned refl
‘He went to the beach and drowned.’ (Frajzyngier 1986:113–14)
What is interesting and relevant for our purposes is the fact that in gapping
constructions, only the contrastive conjunction is possible:
(109) Maria je ryż a/*i Jan je fasolę.
Maria eats rice andc
/ and Jan eats beans
‘Maria eats rice and Jan beans.’
Furthermore, gapping is not unique in this respect; other types of ellipsis
also require contrastive conjunctions. This is illustrated below for pseudo-
gapping (see (110a)), right node raising (see (110b)) and a variant of
gapping called determiner sharing (see (110c)).42
(110) a. Jan musi czytać Chomskiego a/*i Ania będzie czytać
Jan must read Chomsky andC
/and Ania will read
Lakoffa.
Lakoff
‘Jan must read Chomsky and Ania will Lakoff.’
82 Symmetry in Merge
b. Jan przeczytał ten artykuł a/*i Maria zrecenzjonowała ten
Jan read this article andc
/ and Maria reviewed this
artykuł.
article
‘Jan read and Maria reviewed this article.’
c. Mało psów je Whiskas a/*i mało kotów je Alpo.
few dogs eat Whiskas andc
/and few cats eat Alpo
‘Few dogs eat Whiskas and cats Alpo.’
The third property of gapping listed in (102) concerns the ungrammati-
cality of gapping in non-coordinate contexts. All the ungrammatical exam-
ples in (111) below involve gaps in subordinate clauses: a purpose clause in
(111a), a conditional clause in (111b) and a temporal clause in (111c).43
(111) a. *Jan je ryż, żeby Maria zjadła fasolę.
Jan eats rice in.order.to Maria ate beans
‘Jan eats rice in order for Maria to eat beans.’
b. *Jan zje ryż, jeżeli Maria zje fasolę.
Jan eats rice if Maria eats beans
‘Jan will eat rice if Maria eats beans.’
c. *Jan zje ryż po tym, jak Maria zje fasolę.
Jan eats rice after this how Maria eats beans
‘Jan will eat rice after Maria eats beans.’
The fourth property requires gaps to have linguistic antecedents. If
the antecedent is only contextually implied, as in (112) below, modeled
after Hankamer and Sag’s (1976) English example, gapping becomes
ungrammatical.44
(112) [Jan produces an orange, proceeds to peel it, and Maria produces
an apple]
*A Maria obierze jabłko.
and Maria peels apple
‘And Maria will peel an apple.’
The next property has to do with the nature of the elements that can be
gapped. As shown in (113a–b), gaps can be fairly complex, and they do not
have to form a constituent.45
(113) a. Jan chce spróbować zacząć pisać powieść a Maria
Jan wants try.inf begin.inf write.inf novel andC
Maria
chce spróbować zacząć pisać sztukę.
wants try.inf begin.inf write.inf play.
‘Jan wants to try to begin to write a novel and Maria a play.’
b. Jan je ryż na sniadanie a Maria je fasolę na śniadanie.
Jan eats rice for breakfast andC
Maria eats beans for breakfast
‘Jan eats rice for breakfast and Maria beans.’
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 83
The next property involves directionality of gapping. As has been known
since the early days of generative research on gapping (see Maling 1972,
Ross 1970 and Sjoblom 1980, among others), the direction of gapping
(backward or forward) reflects the setting of the head directionality
parameter in the language. The attested patterns, listed in (114), show that
head-initial languages gap forwards, whereas head-final languages gap
backwards.46
(114) a. SVO + SO
b. SOV + SO
c. VSO + SO
d. SO + SOV
e. * SO + SVO
f. * SO + VSO (Maling 1972:101)
The examples below provide an illustration. The English and Polish exam-
ples in (115a–b) contain gaps inside the second conjunct, whereas the
Japanese and Korean examples in (116a–b) contain gaps inside the first
conjunct.
(115) a. John eats rice and Bill ___ beans.
b. Jan je ryż a Maria ___ fasolę. Polish
Jan.nom eats rice.acc andC
Maria.nom beans.acc
‘Jan eats rice and Maria beans.’
(116) a. John-ga Bill ___ sosite Mary-ga Susan-nituite hanasita.
Japanese
John-nom Bill and Mary-nom Susan-about talked
‘Mary talked about Susan and John about Bill.’
(Abe and Hoshi 1999:193)
b. John-i Mary-eykey Kkoch-ul ___ kuliko Bill-i Korean
John-nom Mary-dat flower-acc and Bill-nom
Sue-eykey Chayk-ul cwuessta.
Sue-dat book-acc gave
‘John gave Mary a flower and Bill Sue a book.’
(Repp 2008:6, citing J.-S. Kim 1997:178)
The generalization about directionality of gapping refers to the surface posi-
tion of the verb. For example, German, whose verbs are initial in root clauses
(due to the effects of V2) and final in embedded clauses, allows forward
gapping in root clauses and backward gapping in embedded clauses:
(117) a. John gab Mary eine Blume und Bill ___ Sue ein Buch. German
John gave Mary a flower and Bill Sue a book
‘John gave Mary a flower and Bill gave Sue a book.’
84 Symmetry in Merge
b. Max sagt dass die Jungs drinnen ___ und die Madchen
Max says that the boys inside and the girls
drauβen spielen.
outside play
‘Max says that the boys are playing inside and the girls, outside.’
(Repp 2008:6)
Another illustration comes from Polish, which is typically characterized as
a free word order language. This is accurate as a descriptive characteriza-
tion (but not as a theoretical claim about Polish); even though the neutral
order is SVO, any other order of a subject, object and verb is grammatical,
as shown in (118a–e). Different word orders differ in information status in
ways that do not need to concern us here.
(118) a. Jan je ryż. SVO
Jan.nom eats rice.acc
‘Jan eats rice.’
b. Jan ryż je. SOV
Jan.nom rice.acc eats
c. Ryż Jan je. OSV
rice.acc Jan.nom eats
d. Ryż je Jan. OVS
rice.acc eats Jan.nom
e. Je Jan ryż. VSO
eats Jan.nom rice.acc
f. Je ryż Jan. VOS
eats rice.acc Jan.nom
This freedom of word order, in particular the variable position of the verb,
creates more gapping possibilities. Depending on which order serves as the
input, the result is either forward or backward gapping:
(119) a. Jan je ryż a Maria je fasolę. SVO + SO
Jan eats rice andc
Maria eats beans
‘Jan eats rice and Maria beans.’
b. *Jan je ryż a Maria je fasolę. * SO + SVO
Jan eats rice andc
Maria eats beans
(120) a. Jan ryż je a Maria fasolę je. SOV + SO
Jan rice eats andc
Maria beans eats
b. Jan ryż je a Maria fasolę je. SO + SOV
Jan rice eats andc
Maria beans eats
(121) a. Je Jan ryż a je Maria fasolę. VSO + SO
eat Jan rice andc
eat Maria beans
b. *Je Jan ryż a je Maria fasolę. * SO + VSO
eats Jan rice andc
eats Maria beans
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 85
The next relevant property of gapping involves islands. As noted by
Neijt (1979), gapping obeys island constraints. Representative English
examples are given in (122a–b), and Polish ones (also ungrammatical) in
(123a–b).
(122) a. *John discussed my question of which flowers they saw and Bill
discussed my question (of) which animals. (Neijt 1979:135)
b. *John wondered what to cook today and Peter wondered what to
cook tomorrow. (Neijt 1979:138)
(123) a. *Piotr lubi ludzi, którzy jedzą ryż a Maria lubi ludzi,
Piotr likes people who eat rice andC
Maria likes people
którzy jedzą fasolę.
who eat beans
‘Piotr likes people who eat rice and Maria likes people who eat
beans.’
b. *Maria zastanawia się, co Piotr ugotuje dzisiaj a Ewa
Maria wonders refl what Piotr cooks today andC
Ewa
zastanawia się, co Piotr ugotuje jutro.
wonders refl what Piotr cooks tomorrow
‘Maria wonders what Piotr is cooking today and Ewa tomorrow.’
That gapping should show island effects is not immediately obvious, as on
many accounts it involves deletion rather than movement.47
The last relevant property of gapping involves the relationship between
the features of the gapped string and those of its licensor. The ungram-
maticality of the examples in (124a–b) shows that the gapped verb has
to match its antecedent in tense. The adverbials identify the tense of the
gapped verb; in (124a) the antecedent verb is in the present tense and the
gapped verb in the past tense, and in (124b) the antecedent verb is in the
past and the gapped verb in the present. Both are ungrammatical.
(124) a. *Ewa czyta Gazetę Wyborczą dzisiaj a Maria przeczytała
Ewa read.pres Gazeta Wyborcza today and Maria read.PAST
Gazeta Wyborcza wczoraj
Gazeta Wyborcza yesterday
‘Ewa is reading Gazeta Wyborcza today and Maria read it yesterday.’
b. *Ewa przeczytała Gazetę Wyborczą wczoraj aC
Maria
Ewa read.PAST Gazeta Wyborcza yesterday and Maria
czyta Gazetę Wyborczą teraz.
read.pres Gazeta Wyborcza now
‘Ewa read Gazeta Wyborcza yesterday and Maria is reading it now.’
The two verbs also have to match in aspectual features. I also use adver-
bials to establish whether the gapped verb is perfective or imperfective.
86 Symmetry in Merge
Imperfective verbs in Slavic languages are only compatible with atelic
adverbials like godzinami ‘for hours’, whereas perfective verbs are only
compatible with telic adverbials like w dwie godziny ‘in two hours’. This is
what accounts for the contrasts in grammaticality in (125a–b) and (126a–
b). (125b) is ungrammatical due to the presence of a telic adverbial with an
imperfective verb, and (125b) is ungrammatical due to the presence of an
atelic adverbial with a perfective verb.
(125) a. Ewa czytała ten artykuł godzinami.
Ewa read.IMPERF this article hours.instr
‘Ewa was reading this article for hours.’
b. *Ewa czytała ten artykuł w dwie godziny.
Ewa read.IMPERF this article in two hours
‘Ewa read this article in two hours.’
(126) a. Ewa przeczytała ten artykuł w dwie godziny.
Ewa read.PERF this article in two hours
‘Ewa read this article in two hours.’
b. *Ewa przeczytała ten artykuł godzinami.
Ewa read.PERF this article hours.instr
‘Ewa was reading this article for hours.’
With this as background, we can test aspect matching in gapping construc-
tions. In (127a) the gapped verb is perfective and its antecedent imperfec-
tive. In (127b), the opposite is the case; the gapped verb is imperfective
and its antecedent perfective. Both are ungrammatical, which shows that
gapping also requires aspect matching.
(127) a. *Ewa czytała ten artykuł godzinami a Maria
Ewa read.IMPERF this article hours.INSTR and Maria
przeczytała ten artykuł w dwa dni.
read.PERF this article in two days
‘Ewa was reading this article for hours and Maria read it in two
days.’
b. *Ewa przeczytała ten artykuł w dwie godziny a Maria
Ewa read.PERF this article in two hours and Maria
czytała ten artykuł godzinami.
read.IMPERF this article hours.instr
‘Ewa read this article in two hours and Maria was reading it for
hours.’
The two conjuncts also have to match in voice, as shown in (128a–b). In
(128a), the gapped verb is passive and its antecedent active, and in (128b)
the gapped verb is active and its antecedent passive. Again, both are
ungrammatical.
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 87
(128) a. *Niektórzy studenci przeczytali Aspects a Syntactic
some students read Aspects andC
Syntactic
Structures zostały przeczytane przez innych (studentów).
Structures became read by others students
‘Some students read Aspects and Syntactic Structures were read by
other students.’
b. *Aspects zostały przeczytane przez niektórych studentów a
Aspects became read by some students andC
inni (studenci) przeczytali Syntactic Structures
other (students) read Syntactic Structures
‘Aspects were read by some students and others read
Syntactic Structures.’
On the assumption that matching with respect to some feature implies the
presence of one head responsible for that feature, matching of tense means
there is only one T head, matching of aspect means that there is only one
Aspect head, and matching of voice means that there is only one head
responsible for voice.48
I take this head to be the v head, which is sometimes
called a voice head (see Kratzer 1993 and Pylkkänen 2002, 2008, among
many others).
As an astute Polish-speaking reader might notice, gapping does not
require matching with respect to all features. In particular, phi-features do
not have to match. All the examples given in (129a–c) below are grammati-
cal in spite of a mismatch in number, person or gender features between the
gapped verb and its antecedent; in (129a) gender features do not match, in
(129b) number features do not match, and in (129c) person features do not
match.
(129) a. Maria zjadła ryż a Jan zjadł fasolę.
Maria eat.past.3sg.FEM rice andC
Jan eat.past.3sg.MASC beans
‘Maria ate rice and Jan beans.’
b. Kowalscy gotują ryż a Maria gotuje fasolę.
Kowalskis cook.pres.3PL rice andC
Maria cook.pres.3SG beans
‘The Kowalskis are making rice and Maria beans.’
c. Ja lubię ryż a ona lubi fasolę.
I like.pres.1sg rice andC
she like.pres.3sg beans
‘I like rice and she beans.’
The grammaticality of mismatches in person, number and gender would
receive a fairly natural explanation if agreement and tense features were
mediated by distinct functional heads, AgrS and T respectively. This would
allow T to be shared between two conjuncts without AgrS being shared as
well. Such an explanation, however, is not available in the current version
of the minimalist theory, which dispenses with agreement projections
88 Symmetry in Merge
altogether, and in which both tense and person, number and gender agree-
ment are mediated by T. What seems to be more promising is appealing
to the idea that only interpretable features have to match, as suggested by
Repp (2008).
The question I turn to now is how all the properties of gapping discussed
above follow from a symmetric structure. The relevant structure has (at
least) four elements that are shared between the two conjuncts. In cases
of simple gaps, such as the one in (130a) below, the shared elements are:
the main verb, v, Asp, and T heads. However, they are shared in different
ways; T and Asp heads are shared by virtue of being merged above the
coordination level. This not only maintains Johnson’s insight that gapping
involves small conjunct coordination but it also accounts for tense and
aspect matching in a very straightforward manner. V and v heads, on the
other hand, are shared by virtue of Parallel Merge, which is what accounts
for voice matching.49
(130) a. Jan zjadł ryż a Maria zjadła fasolę.
Jan ate rice andC
Maria ate beans
‘Jan ate rice and Maria beans.’
b. TP
T AspP
Asp &P
&
vP & vP
Jan v Maria v
v VP VP
ate rice beans
This is not the final structure. I further assume, following Johnson (2000,
2009), that each conjunct contains a discourse-related projection (which
I dub FP), and that both the remnants and their antecedents move to the
specifier of this projection.50
Consequently, there are a number of move-
ments that take place in (130b); the subject of the first conjunct moves to
[Spec,TP], the shared verb moves in a successive cyclic fashion to Asp, and
both objects (as well as the second conjunct’s subject) move to the specifier
of FP positions. The end result is given in (131).
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 89
(131) TP
Janj T
T AspP
Asp
atek &P
&
FP & FP
ricei F Mariaj F
tk vP beansi F’
tj v vP
tk VP tj v
tk ti VP
ti
TP
T AspP
Asp &P
&
vP & vP
Jan v Maria v
v VP VP
VP PP PP
eats rice for breakfast for dinner
The symmetric account extends to cases involving more complex gaps,
such as the one in (132a). In such cases, the lower segment of the two-
segmented VP is shared, as shown in (132b).
(132) a. Jan je ryż na śniadanie a Maria je ryż
Jan eats rice for breakfast andC
Maria eats rice
na obiad.
for dinner
‘Jan eats rice for breakfast and Maria for dinner.’
b.
90 Symmetry in Merge
Again, the subject of the first conjunct moves to the specifier of TP, the
object to the specifier of FP inside the first conjunct, and both PPs to the
lower specifier of FP inside both conjuncts. The end result is given in (133).51
(133)
The properties of gapping that we started this section with are repeated
in (134a–h).
(134) a. Gaps must be surrounded by lexical material;
b. Remnants must be contrastive;
c. Gaps cannot occur in subordinate clauses;
d. Gaps require linguistic antecedents;
e. Gapping can target non-constituents;
f. Gapping is sensitive to head directionality;
g. Gapping obeys islands;
h. Gapping requires matching in tense, voice and aspect.
The fact that the gaps are surrounded by lexical material is only an illusion,
as the gap is a combination of sharing and movement of the remnants to
[Spec, FP]. The fact that the remnants must be contrastive is also related to
their movement to [Spec, FP]. The ungrammaticality of gapping in non-
coordinate clauses, however, cannot be linked to sharing being limited to
TP
Janj T
T AspP
Asp
eats &P
&
FP & FP
Mariaj
ricei F
F
PPk F PPk F
for breakfast F vP for dinner vP
tj v tj v
v VP VP
VP tk tk
V ti
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 91
coordinate structures, as there are constructions that involve sharing but no
coordination whatsoever, which I discuss in the next two sections. It could,
however, follow from some form of a parallelism constraint on gapping.
The fact that gapping can target non-constituents is to be expected on the
symmetric account, since nothing prevents more than one element from
being shared. If the shared elements are discontinuous, we get the effects
of non-constituent gapping. Whether the directionality of gapping follows
from a symmetric structure depends on independent assumptions about
movement. If in a head-initial language, movement is to the left (thus cre-
ating the illusion of a gap in the second conjunct), whereas in a head-final
language movement is to the right (thus creating the illusion of a gap in the
first conjunct), as shown schematically in (135a–b), the correlation between
directionality and the position of the gap follows naturally. This, however,
is incompatible with the Linear Correspondence Axiom of Kayne (1994),
which bans rightward movements (see Kasai 2007 for a possible solution).
(135) a. b.
TP TP
DPi T DPi T
T AspP AspP T
Asp &P &P Asp
&
&
vP & vP vP & vP
ti v DP v ti
v DP v
v VP VP VP VP v
V DP DP
DP DP V
The fact that gapping obeys islands follows from the fact that the remnants
undergo movement to the specifier of focus-related projections contained
inside both conjuncts. And the last property, the obligatory matching of
tense, aspect and voice features, follows from the simple fact that there is
only one Tense, Aspect, and voice head in this structure. These are all the
properties of gapping I set out to account for in this section.
All the constructions discussed so far as evidence for the existence of
symmetric structures in the grammar were coordinate, which raises the
question of what the relationship is between coordination and symmetric
92 Symmetry in Merge
structure sharing. Since coordination involves an asymmetric structure,
there cannot be any direct relationship between coordination and struc-
ture sharing. The discussion in the next two sections makes this point even
more transparent, as it introduces two symmetric constructions which are
not coordinate at all.
3.6.5 Serial verbs
The arguments in this section summarize Hiraiwa and Bodomo’s (2008)
analysis of serial verb constructions in Dàgááré (a Gur language belonging
to the Niger-Congo family). Generally speaking, a serial verb construction
is a construction consisting of a sequence of verbs with no overt coordina-
tion or subordination marker mediating the relationship between them. An
example is given in (136a); it contains two verbs sharing a single object.
Hiraiwa and Bodomo take this sharing quite literally, and propose that the
object undergoes Parallel Merge with the two verbs, as shown in (136b). As
a result, the object is in a symmetric c-command relationship with the two
verbs.52
(136) a. ò dà sε la nεnè ɔ
`ɔ
`. Dàgááré
3sg past roast fem meat eat
‘He roasted the meat and ate it.’ (Hiraiwa and Bodomo 2008:243)
b. vP
v FocP
Foc Asp1+2P
Asp1P Asp2P
Asp1
V1P Asp2 V2P
roast meat ate
If nothing else happens, such a symmetric structure is not linearizable.
However, Hiraiwa and Bodomo (2008) also provide independent evidence
in favor of short object shift (movement of the object to the specifier of
AspP) and successive cyclic movement of V1
to Asp to v, shown in (137).
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 93
(137) vP
roastj FocP
Foc Asp1+2P
meati Asp1+2P
Asp1P Asp2P
tj V1P Asp2 V2P
tj ti
ate
As a result, the object remains “sandwiched” between the two verbs –
however, without being multiply dominated by the two VPs. There is inde-
pendent evidence that the verb (even in simple clauses) moves to v across
the Focus head, which is occupied by the focus particle lá. Furthermore,
this movement is obligatory, as shown by the ungrammaticality of (138b).
(138) a. ń ngmέ lá Dàkóráá.
1sg hit foc Dàkóráá.
‘I hit Dakoraa.’
b. * ń lá ngmέ Dàkóráá.
1sg foc hit Dàkóráá.
‘I hit Dakoraa.’ (Hiraiwa and Bodomo 2008:249)
Hiraiwa and Bodomo (2008) also show that alternative structures for
serial verb constructions (which have been proposed for other languages)
will not work for Dàgááré. These include a ternary branching structure in
(139a) proposed by Baker (1989), a VP shell structure in (139b) proposed
by Collins (1997b), and a VP adjunction structure in (139c) proposed by
Hale (1991). Since serial verb constructions are quite varied crosslinguis-
tically (as discussed most recently by Muysken and Veenstra 2006 and
Aikhenvald and Dixon 2007), it is not surprising that they might involve
different structures in different languages.
94 Symmetry in Merge
(139) a. b. c.
VP1
SUBJ V1
V1 OBJ V2
V2
VP1
VP2
VP3
V1
V2
V3
NP
V1
V2
V3
OBJ
pro
VP1
VP1 VP2
V1 V2
OBJ pro
(Hiraiwa and Bodomo 2008:243)
Hiraiwa and Bodomo’s strongest argument for a symmetric structure comes
from the interaction of serialization and predicate clefting. They show that
in Dàgááré, the object can be clefted with either verb. In (140a), it is clefted
with the first verb, whereas in (140b) it is clefted with the second verb.53
(140) a. nέnè séέó lá ká ó se ɔ
´ɔ
´.
meat roast.nml fem C 3sg roast eat
‘It is roasting meat that he roasted and ate.’ (clefting of V1 + object)
b. nέnè ɔ
´ɔó lá ká ó sέ ɔ
´ɔ
´.
meat eat.nml fem C 3sg roast eat
‘It is eating meat that he roasted and ate.’ (clefting of V2 + object)
(Hiraiwa and Bodomo 2008:246)
This pattern is problematic for the structures given in (139a–c) for funda-
mental structural reasons. In (139a), V1 and the shared object do not form
a constituent. Neither do V2 and the shared object. In (139b), V1 and the
object do not form a constituent, and in (139c), V2 and the object do not.54
These predicate clefting patterns are not a problem for the symmetric
structure proposed by Hiraiwa and Bodomo (2008); clefting of V1 and the
object would involve movement of a constituent marked as Asp1P in (137),
whereas clefting of V2 and the object involves movement of the constituent
marked as Asp2P. Since the object is shared between them, it can be pied-
piped in either case.
3.6.6 Free relatives
The last construction that lends itself to a symmetric multidominant
account is a free relative construction. The insight that free relatives involve
a multidominant structure goes back to Haider (1988), Citko (1998, 2000)
and Van Riemsdijk (1998, 2000, 2006a). In this section, I survey and evalu-
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 95
ate the evidence that has been given to support such an analysis, starting
with a brief description of what free relatives are and how they have been
analyzed in the past. The account I argue for in this section is a variant of
Van Riemsdijk’s (2006a) account.
The term headless or free relative clause reflects the intuition that free
relatives differ from their headed counterparts in that they lack overt
heads. This difference is illustrated in (141a–b); the relative clause in (141a)
is headed by the DP the woman, whereas the free relative in (141b) appears
to either lack the head entirely or to be “headed” by the wh-phrase itself.
(141) a. We hired the woman who(m) Mary recommended. headed relative
b. We hired whom Mary recommended. free relative
Free relatives exhibit a number of interesting syntactic, semantic and mor-
phological properties, a full consideration of which goes beyond the scope
of this chapter. It is thus not surprising that they have inspired a healthy
debate among linguists, starting in the late 1970s and early 1980s with the
work of Bresnan and Grimshaw (1978) and Groos and Van Riemsdijk
(1981). Perhaps the biggest source of (ongoing) debate concerns the struc-
ture of free relatives, in particular the position of the wh-phrase. There
are two major views on this matter, referred to as the Comp Account and
the Head Account, respectively. The two are illustrated in (142a–b). On
the Comp Account, the head position is empty and the wh-phrase is in
[Spec,CP], as argued by Caponigro (2003), Gračanin-Yüksek (2008), Groos
and Van Riemsdijk (1981), Grosu (1994, 1996), and Grosu and Landman
(1998), among many others. On the Head Account, the [Spec,CP] position
is empty and the wh-phrase occupies the head position, as shown in (142b),
as argued by Bresnan and Grimshaw (1978), Bury (2003), Citko (2000,
2002, 2008b), Donati (2006) and Larson (1987, 1998), among others.55,56
(142) a. Mary eats [DP
Ø [CP
what(ever)i
[TP
Bill cooks ti
] ] ] Comp Account
b. Mary eats [DP
what(ever)i
[CP
[TP
Bill cooks ti
] ] ] Head Account
The parallelism between the ungrammatical wh-questions in (143a–d) and
the ungrammatical free relatives in (144a–d) suggests that wh-pronouns
undergo the same kind of movement in wh-questions and free relatives;
both are subject to locality. This parallelism receives a straightforward
explanation on the Comp Account, in which the landing site for wh-
pronouns in both questions and free relatives is [Spec, CP].
(143) a. * Whati
did Mary made the claim that Bill cooked ti
?
COMPLEX NP ISLAND
b. * Whati
did Mary wonder why Bill cooked ti
? WH-ISLAND
96 Symmetry in Merge
c. * Whati
did Mary eat because Bill cooked ti
? ADJUNCT CONDITION
d. * Whosei
did Mary eat ti
dish? LEFT BRANCH CONDITION
(144) a. * Mary ate whati
she made the claim that Bill cooked ti
.
COMPLEX NP ISLAND
b. * Mary ate whati
she wondered why Bill cooked ti
. WH-ISLAND
c. * Mary ate whati
she could because Bill cooked ti
?
ADJUNCT CONDITION
d. * Mary ate what Bill cooked ti
dish. LEFT BRANCH CONDITION
The Head Account, on the other hand, provides a straightforward account
of the so-called matching effect, which is the requirement that the wh-pro-
noun satisfy the category and case requirements of both the embedded and
the main verb. In (145a), the category matching is satisfied because both
the matrix verb like and the embedded verb cook subcategorize for a DP
complement (and the free relative is headed by a DP). In (145b), by con-
trast, it is not, since the free relative is headed by a PP, which cannot satisfy
the subcategorization requirements of the matrix verb like.
(145) a. Mary liked [DP
[DP
whatever]i
Bill cooked ti
] ].
b. * John liked [DP
[PP
with whatever]i
Bill flavored the dish ti
] ].
Case matching is illustrated by the contrast in (146a–b) from Polish. In
the grammatical (146a), both the matrix and the embedded verb assign
accusative case (and thus an accusative wh-pronoun can satisfy the case
requirements of both). In the ungrammatical (146b), the case assignment
properties of the two verbs differ; the embedded verb szukać ‘to look for’
assigns genitive case, and the matrix one zgubić ‘to lose’ assigns accusative
case. As a result, neither the genitive nor the accusative wh-pronoun can
satisfy the case requirements of both verbs.
(146) a. Maria recenzjonuje [co(kolwiek) Jan pisze tACC
] ACC
Maria reviews what(ever).acc Jan writes
‘Maria reviews whatever Jan writes.’
b. * Maria zgubiła [co/ czego(kolwiek) Jan szuka tGEN
] ACC
Maria lost what.acc/gen Jan look-for
‘Maria lost what Jan is looking for.’
There are many ways to divide free relatives into distinct types. The dis-
tinction that is most relevant for our purposes is that between standard
free relatives (henceforth SFRs) and transparent free relatives (henceforth
TFRs).57
The two are exemplified in (147a) and (147b), respectively.
(147) a. John read what Bill gave him. SFR
b. John read what appeared to be Bill’s new novel. TFR
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 97
The term transparent reflects the intuition that with respect to many diag-
nostics (which I will discuss shortly), part of the TFR behaves as if it were
not there. For example, what appeared to be can omitted in (147b) without
affecting the grammaticality of the sentence, as shown in (148a).58
No such
omission is possible in SFRs, as is shown in (147b).
(148) a. John read Bill’s new novel.
b. * John read.
This difference is related to the fact that in TFRs, the DP Bill’s new novel,
rather than the wh-pronoun what, functions as the semantic head (also
referred to in the literature as the nucleus). By contrast, in SFRs the wh-
element itself functions as the head.
TFRs differ from SFRs in a number of other respects, discussed by
Grosu (2003), Schelfhout, Coppen and Oostdijk (2004), Van Riemsdijk
(1998, 2000, 2006a) and Wilder (1999a), among others. The table in (149)
provides a quick overview. The examples I discuss below to illustrate
these differences are from Van Riemsdijk (2006a:363–5) unless otherwise
noted.
(149) Differences between standard and transparent free relatives
Property Standard free relatives Transparent free relatives
Possible wh-pronouns all wh-pronouns only what
Compatibility with
ever
ever optional ever impossible
Agreement determined by the
wh-pronoun
determined by the semantic
nucleus
Idiom chunks impossible possible
Extraction impossible possible
Interpretation interpreted as
definites
interpreted as indefinites
Law of the
Coordination of Likes
obey LCL disobey LCL
The first difference has to do with the range of wh-pronouns allowed in
free relatives. The wh-pronoun what is the only one that is possible in TFRs
and it is used even if the TFR refers to a human.
(150) She invited what I took to be a policeman to stay overnight. TFR
98 Symmetry in Merge
No such restriction is present in SFRs; all wh-pronouns are possible and
the wh-pronoun determines the reference of the free relative; what cannot
be used to refer to a human:
(151) * She invited what was carrying a baton and a gun to stay overnight. SFR
Furthermore, what in TFRs cannot be affixed with -ever. In this respect,
TFRs also differ from SFRs, in which -ever is optional:
(152) a. What(ever) just appeared on the freeway is not a jet. SFR
b. There was what(*ever) appeared to be a jet on the freeway. TFR
Agreement also works differently in the two types of free relatives. In
SFRs, what triggers singular agreement, as shown by the contrast in (153a–
b), whereas in TFRs it can trigger either singular or plural agreement, as
shown in (154a–b). This shows that in TFRs agreement is determined by
the semantic nucleus and not by the wh-pronoun.
(153) a. What pleases me most adorns the living room wall. SFR
b. * What please me most adorn the living room wall. SFR
(154) a. What seem to be several jets were landing on the freeway. TFR
b. What seems to be a jet was landing on the freeway. TFR
Another difference between SFRs and TFRs involves their compatibility
with idiom chunks. TFRs, unlike SFRs, allow one part of the idiom to be
inside the matrix clause and the other one inside the relative clause:
(155) a. Nicki
lost what according to the dictionary are called hisi
marbles.
TFR
b. * Nicki
lost what hisi
marbles cost in the store. SFR
The next difference between SFRs and TFRs involves movement. As
shown by the ungrammaticality of both (156a) and (156b), SFRs are
islands for extraction, paralleling in this respect headed relatives. TFRs, by
contrast, allow movement, as shown in (156c).
(156) a. * Whoi
did you order what represented the sole possession of ti
? SFR
b. * Whoi
did you order a picture that represented the sole possession
of ti
? HR
c. Whoi
did you order what was advertised as a first rate picture of ti
?
TFR
The next set of diagnostics involves the interpretation of both SFRs and
TFRs. SFRs can be interpreted as either definites or universals (see a brief
discussion of this difference in note 57). As such, they are predicted to be
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 99
subject to the definiteness effect. This prediction is confirmed; the ungram-
maticality of the SFR in (157a) is due to the same factors that rule out
(157b).
(157) a. * There was what had incurred extensive engine failure on the freeway.
SFR
b. * There was the jet/every jet on the freeway.
TFRs, on the other hand, do not induce the definiteness effect and pattern
with indefinites in this respect:
(158) a. There was what appeared to be a jet on the freeway. TFR
b. There was a jet on the freeway.
This shows that the definiteness of the TFR is determined by the semantic
nucleus (a jet in (158a–b)). Replacing it with a definite DP leads to ungram-
maticality:
(159) * There was what appeared to be the jet on the freeway.
And the last difference between SFRs and TFRs listed in (149) concerns
their behavior with respect to the Law of the Coordination of Likes. If the
category of the TFR were determined by the wh-pronoun what, we would
expect (160a) to be grammatical as a coordination of two DPs, which is
not what we find. However, a corresponding SFR in (160b) is grammatical,
which shows that the wh-pronoun in SFRs does determine the categori-
cal status of the entire relative. Furthermore, the grammaticality of (160c)
shows that coordination in TFRs is between the first conjunct and the
semantic nucleus of the second conjunct.
(160) a. * He dislikes [DP
trains] and [DP
what I consider inconvenient]. TFR
b. He dislikes [DP
trains] and [DP
what the government proposes to replace
them with]. SFR
c. He dislikes [DP
trains] and what I consider an equally [DP
inconvenient
alternative]. TFR
All the diagnostics thus point towards the conclusion that TFRs and SFRs
are structurally different. The question now is what kinds of structures
could capture these differences, and, more importantly, whether they are
symmetric in the relevant sense.59
The idea I would like to pursue in this
section is that both SFRs and TFRs involve a Parallel Merge structure.
They differ, however, with respect to what exactly is being shared. In SFRs,
the wh-pronoun is shared between the matrix and the relative clause; in
TFRs the nucleus is. The shared elements are indicated in bold in (161a–b).
100 Symmetry in Merge
(161) a. John read what(ever) Bill wrote. SFR
b. John read what he took to be Bill’s new novel. TFR
For SFRs, I assume, following Van Riemsdijk (2006a), that the wh-pro-
noun is shared between its theta position in the matrix clause and the speci-
fier position of the relative CP. For example, in an object free relative, such
as the one given in (162a) below, the shared position is the specifier of the
relative CP and the complement of the matrix verb.60
(162) a. John read what(ever) Mary wrote.
b.
In a subject free relative, such as the one in (163a) below, the wh-pronoun
is shared between the specifier of the relative CP and the specifier of the
matrix vP.
TP
Johnj
vP
tj v
v VP
VP
CP
V DP C
read
whateveri C TP
Maryj
vP
ti v
tj v
v
V ti
wrote
T
T
T
T
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 101
(163) a. Whoever arrives first will win the race.
b. TP
CP T
T
vP
will
DP C v
whoeveri C TP v VP
VP
ti
T V DP
win
vP the race
ti
v
v
T
arrives first
These structures for free relatives have two roots (TP and CP), which vio-
lates the Single Root Condition. There is nothing unique about free rela-
tives in this respect; all Parallel Merge structures discussed in this chapter
violate it at some point in the derivation. We could relax the Single Root
Condition to allow such structures, but a more fundamental issue with
(162b) and (163b) concerns linearization. If the two roots do not undergo
any further Merge operations, the structure is not linearizable. The solution
to this problem in other cases of Parallel Merge was for the two “roots” to
merge again into a single-rooted structure, which allowed linearization to
proceed on standard assumptions. For example, in ATB wh-questions, the
two TP conjuncts (which constituted the two independent roots) merged
with the conjunction head (one becoming its complement and the other
one its specifier). What I would like to suggest here is that something similar
happens in free relatives, only that there is no coordinate head involved. In
this respect, I depart from Van Riemsdijk (2006a), for whom the structures
akin to (162b) and (163b) are the final ones. Two things thus have to happen
in (162b) and (163b); the wh-pronouns have to move, and the TP and CP
have to merge into a single-rooted structure. In subject free relatives, the
shared wh-pronoun moves to the specifier of TP first, as shown in (164a).
Next, the relative CP adjoins to the moved wh-pronoun, as shown in (164b).
102 Symmetry in Merge
(164) a. TP
T
T
CP whoever T
T
vP
will
ti v
VP
VP
DP
ti win
vP the race
ti v
v
arrives first
DPi
C
TP
C v
i
DP i will vP
whoever ti v
v VP
ti win
vP the race
ti v
v
arrives first
TP
DP T’
T’
CP
C
TP
C
DP
T
VP
b.
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 103
What this implies is that in object free relatives the shared wh-pronoun will
also have to move to some higher (non-shared) position.61
I take this posi-
tion to be the external specifier of vP. This further implies that (even in a
language like English) the verb has to move to some position above vP but
below T. I take this position to be the head of PredP (as proposed for inde-
pendent reasons by Johnson 2000, for example).
(165) a.
Johnj T
T
readk vP
DPi vP
whatever tj v
tk
tk ti C
Maryj
vP
ti vP
tj v
v
wrote i
TP
PredP
VP CP
C TP
T
T
VP
t
104 Symmetry in Merge
b.
The final structure is a variant of the Head Account, as the wh-pronoun
occupies the CP external head position.62
A natural question that arises here is whether the same analysis can
be extended to TFRs. The structure in which the wh-pronoun is shared
between the matrix and the relative clause in TFRs, as shown in (166b),
would totally assimilate TFRs to SFRs, and thus leave all the differences
between them unaccounted for.
Johnj T
readk vP
DPi vP
tj v
whatever v
tk ti
Maryj
vP
ti vP
tj v
v
wrote ti
TP
PredP
T
T
DPi CP
C VP
TP
C
T
VP
3.6 Empirical support for symmetric Merge 105
(166) a. John read what he took to be Bill’s new novel.
b. TP
Johnj T
T vP
tj v
v
i
read
what
he took to be ti Bill’s new novel
VP CP
C
V DP
C TP
Instead, it seems more reasonable to assume that in TFRs the nucleus,
which in (166a) is Bill’s new novel, is shared between the matrix and the rel-
ative clause, as shown in (167). This is the basic insight of Van Riemsdijk’s
(2006a) account.
(167) a. TP
T’
vP
tj v
v
DP
Johnj
T
VP CP
read
what he took to be
Bill’s new novel
106 Symmetry in Merge
One benefit of such a structure is that it can capture the transparency of
TFRs. Intuitively speaking, the only material from the relative CP that the
matrix clause can “see” is the nucleus, which is shared between the two.
Many of the differences between SFRs and TFRs discussed in this section
follow from this fact. For example, the fact that the nucleus determines
agreement or definiteness of the relative clause follows from the fact that
the nucleus is the complement of the matrix verb. This structure can also
explain why the nucleus can contain part of an idiom or determine the
category of the free relative for the purposes of coordination. However, if
nothing else happens, this structure faces some of the same issues we saw
above with the symmetric structure for SFRs. First, it also involves two
roots, and second, the shared element has not moved out of the shared
structure. The solution to this problem with TFRs parallels the solution I
offered above for SFRs. The shared element (Bill’s new novel in this case)
moves out of the shared structure and the relative CP adjoins to it. The end
result is given in (168).
(168) TP
Johnj
readk vP
DPi v
DPi v
Bill’s new novel v
what he took to be ti tk ti
PredP
T
CP tj
VP
T
3.6 Conclusion 107
To sum up this section, we saw how both standard free relatives and
transparent free relatives can be analyzed in a symmetric fashion. We also
saw that such an analysis can account for many well-documented differ-
ences between these two types, as it allows for different elements to be
shared between the matrix and the relative clause: wh-pronouns in stand-
ard free relatives and the semantic nuclei in transparent free relatives.
3.7 Conclusion
In this chapter, I provided both empirical and theoretical arguments in favor
of a particular kind of symmetric structure created by Merge: a multidom-
inant structure in which a single node stands in a symmetric c-command
relationship with respect to two other nodes. I further argued that the
mechanism responsible for creating such structures, Parallel Merge, does
not require any extra assumptions, as it combines the properties of the two
fundamental syntactic mechanisms, External Merge and Internal Merge.
I also discussed the constraints on Parallel Merge structures and various
ways that have been proposed in the literature to linearize them. On a more
empirical level, I argued that a symmetric Parallel Merge approach can
explain a number of otherwise mysterious properties of the constructions
listed in (169a–g):
(169) a. ATB wh-questions
b. wh-questions with conjoined wh-pronouns
c. right node raising
d. gapping
e. serial verbs
f. standard free relatives
g. transparent free relatives
In all of them, there is one (or more) element that is multiply dominated,
thus standing in a symmetric relationship with respect to the rest of the
structure. I referred to such elements as pivots or shared elements. In ATB
wh-questions, there are three pivots: a wh-pronoun, a T and a v head. In
questions with conjoined wh-pronouns, there are multiple pivots, as every-
thing except the wh-phrases themselves is shared between the two con-
juncts. In right node raising, the right node raised portion is the pivot, and
in gapping constructions the gapped string is. In serial verb constructions
108 Symmetry in Merge
of the type discussed in this chapter, the object is shared between two verb
phrases. Standard and transparent free relatives differ with respect to what
is shared between the matrix and the relative clause; in standard free rel-
atives the wh-phrase is shared, whereas in transparent free relatives, the
semantic nucleus is.
109
4 Symmetry in Move
4.1 Introduction
In this chapter I turn to symmetry in movement, focusing on the
configuration schematized in (1), in which γ is a Probe (i.e. an element
endowed with an EPP feature or some other feature triggering movement)
and α and β are two potential Goals (i.e. two elements of the same type
that can check this feature). Symmetric movement is a type of movement
that treats α and β alike; it allows (or disallows) movement of either one.
(1)
γuF
αF
βF
There are two (related) questions that such a configuration raises. First,
under what circumstances is movement of either α or β possible? And
second, what allows movement of β over α? Given Relativized Minimality
(or any of its more current formulations, such as Attract Closest or
Shortest Move), we would expect only the higher of the two, α in (1), to be
able to move.
Passive movement in double object constructions provides a very straight-
forward example of the configuration in (1); it involves one subject position
(one Probe) and two objects (two potential Goals). Furthermore, it is well-
known that languages vary with respect to which object they can passivize.
In some languages passivization is an asymmetric operation in that it can
target only one of the two objects, whereas in others it is a symmetric oper-
ation in that it can target either object. Accounting for this crosslinguistic
variation is my main goal in this chapter. I proceed as follows. In Section
4.2, I review the familiar data to illustrate the distinction between symmet-
ric and asymmetric passives. In Sections 4.3 and 4.4., I provide the data
from Polish that will inform the discussion in the rest of the chapter. After
110 Symmetry in Move
a brief summary (Section 4.5), I turn to previous accounts in Sections 4.6
and 4.7, pointing out the advantages and disadvantages of each of them.
As noted in Anagnostopoulou (2003) and McGinnis (1998, 2004), they can
be divided into two kinds: the ones that link the availability of symmetric
passives to various ways of circumventing a locality violation (such as the
availability of the word order in which the direct object precedes the indi-
rect one, either via base-generation or movement) and the ones that link the
availability of symmetric passives to case properties of the two objects (and
various patterns of case absorption in passives). The data from Polish I
discuss in this chapter suggest that both are partially correct, and that there
are two ways in which the lower object can passivize; one involves move-
ment of the lower object over the higher one, and the other one involves a
case-related movement of the higher object.1
4.2 Symmetric and asymmetric passives
On the assumption that the indirect object c-commands the direct one,
which I justified in Chapter 2, we would expect only the IO to be able to
passivize in (2).
(2) TP
T[EPP]
IO
DO
This is not what we always find. Across languages, we find four distinct
passivization patterns in double object constructions. The first type, sche-
matized in (3a–b), is the expected type; it involves languages in which only
indirect objects can passivize.
(3) a. TP
T[EPP]
IO
DO
b TP
T[EPP]
IO
DO
This is what we find in American English and Danish, for example.2
4.2 Symmetric and asymmetric passives 111
(4) a. Johni
was given ti
a book.
b. A booki
was given John ti
.
(5) a. Hani
blev tilbudt ti
en stilling. Danish
he was offered a job
‘He was offered a job.’
b. * En stillingi
blev tilbudt han ti
.
a job was offered him
‘A job was offered to him.’ (McGinnis 1998:73)
The second type involves languages in which only direct objects can
passivize, as shown in (6a–b).
(6) a. TP
T[EPP]
IO
DO
b. TP
T[EPP]
IO
DO
This is a common pattern in languages that mark indirect objects with
inherent case, such as German, Spanish or Polish.3
(7) a. Das Mädchen schenkte dem Jungen ein Buch. German
the girl.nom gave the boy.dat a book.acc
‘The girl gave the boy a book.’
b. Ein Buchi
wurde dem Jungen von dem Mädchen ti
geschenkt.
a book.nom was the boy.dat by the girl given
‘A book was given to the boy by the girl.’
c. * Der Jungei
wurde ti
von dem Mädchen ein Buch geschenkt.
the boy.nom was by the girl a book given
‘The boy was given a book by the girl.’ (Woolford 1993:688)
(8) a. El diaro le entregó le primer premio
the newspaper cl.dat awarded the first prize.acc
a Carolina. Spanish
Carolina.dat
‘The newspaper awarded the first prize to Carolina.’
b. El premier premioi
le fue entregado ti
a Carolina.
the first prize.nom.cl.dat was awarded Carolina.dat
‘The first prize was awarded to Carolina.’
c. * Carolinai
le fue entregado /a (a) el primer premio ti
.
Carolina cl was awarded.masc/fem the first prize
‘Carolina was awarded the first prize.’ (Cuervo 2003a:97)
112 Symmetry in Move
(9) a. Jan wysłał Ewie paczkę. Polish
John.nom sent Eve.dat package.acc
‘John sent Eve a package.’
b. Paczkai
została wysłana (Ewie) ti
przez Janka.
package.nom was.3fem sent Eve.dat by John
‘The package was sent (to Eve) by John.’
c. * Ewai
była wysłana ti
paczkę przez Janka.
Eve.nom was.3fem sent package.acc by John
‘Eve was sent a package.’ (Dziwirek 1994:84)
The third pattern involves languages that allow passivization of either
object, as shown in (10a–b).
(10) a. TP
T[EPP]
IO
DO
b. TP
T[EPP]
IO
DO
This is the symmetric pattern most relevant to the general theme of this
book and this is reported in languages like British English, Norwegian or
Icelandic.
(11) a. Johni
was given ti
a book.
b. A booki
was given John ti
.
(12) a. Joni
ble gitt ti
boken. Norwegian
John was given book.def
‘John was given the book.’
b. Bokeni
ble gitt Jon ti
.
book.def was given John
‘The book was given John’ (Holmberg and Platzack 1995:215)
(13) a. Jónii
var gefin ti
bókin. Icelandic
John.dat was given book.def
‘John was given the book’
b. Bókini
var gefin Jóni ti
.
book.def was given John.dat
‘The book was given John.’ (Holmberg and Platzack 1995:189)
And the fourth pattern, schematized in (14a–b), involves languages that
disallow passivization of either object.
4.2 Symmetric and asymmetric passives 113
(14) a. TP
IO
DO
T[EPP]
b. TP
T[EPP]
IO
DO
This is what we see in the following examples from Greek:
(15) a. ?* To vivlio charistike tis Marias apo ton Petro. Greek
the book.nom award.nact the Maria.gen from the Petros
‘The book was awarded to Mary by Peter.’
b. ?* To grama tachidhromithike tu Petru apo tin Ilektra.
the report.nom mailed.nact.3sg the Petros.gen from the Ilektra
‘The letter was mailed to Peter by Ilektra.’
(Anagnostopoulou 2003:22)
The contrast between languages (or dialects) with symmetric passives
and those with asymmetric passives is widely discussed in the literature
on Bantu languages. In this group, quite often though, the contrast is not
between one language being symmetric and another one being asymmet-
ric, but between one type of applicative construction being symmetric and
another one being asymmetric. For example, Swahili locative applicatives
are symmetric; either the applied or the direct object can be passivized:
(16) a. Ofisi-ni pa-li-l-i-w-a ch-akula. Swahili
office-loc 16sa-past-eat-appl-pass-fv 7-food
‘In the office was eaten food.’
b. Ch-akula ki-li-l-i-w-a ofisi-ni.
7-food 7sa-past-eat-pass-fv 9office-loc
‘The food was eaten in the office.’ (Ngonyani 1996:39–40)
Benefactive and goal applicatives, on the other hand, are asymmetric; only
the applied object can be passivized, as shown in (17a–b) for benefactives
and in (18a–b) for goals.
(17) a. M-toto a-li-nunul-i-w-a ki-tabu. Swahili
1-child 1sa-past-1oa-bring-appl-pass-fv 7-book
‘The child had a book bought for him.’
b. * Ki-tabu ki-li-nunul-i-w-a m-toto.
7-book 7sa-past-buy-appl-pass-fv 2-boy
‘The book was bought for the child.’
(18) a. Wa-vulana wa-li-sukum-i-w-a j-ongoo.
2-boy 2sa-past-push- appl-pass-fv 5-milipede
‘The boys had millipede pushed towards them.’
114 Symmetry in Move
b. * Jongoo a-li-sukum-i-w-a wa-vulana.
1milipede 1sa-past-push-appl-pass-fv 2-boy
‘The millipede was pushed towards the boys.’
(Ngonyani 1996:38–9)
Kinyarwanda also has two types of applicatives, which behave differently
with respect to passivization. Goal applicatives are symmetric, whereas
benefactive ones are asymmetric, as shown by the contrast between
(19a–b) and (20a–b).
(19) a. Igitabo cy-a-haa-w-e umugore (n’umugabo). Kinyarwanda
book sp-past-give-pass-asp woman (by-man)
‘The book was given to the woman by the man.’
b. Umugore y-a-haa-w-e igitabo (n’umugabo).
woman sp-past-give-pass-asp book (by-man)
‘The woman was given the book by the man.’
(Kimenyi 1980:127)
(20) a. Ishuûri ry-oohere-j-w-é-ho igitabo n’úúmwáalímu.
school it-send-asp-pass-asp-loc book by teacher
‘The school was sent the book by the teacher.’
b. * Igitabo cy-oohere-j-w-é-ho ishuûri n’úúmwáalímu.
book it-send-asp-pass-asp-loc school by teacher
‘The book was sent to school by the teacher.’
(McGinnis 2001:93, citing Kimenyi 1980)
The passivization patterns discussed above bear on the issue of symme-
try in movement in two ways. First, the existence of languages that allow
passivization of either object provides evidence that the grammar has to
allow symmetric movement. Second, the existence of two types of asym-
metric pattern points toward a more general (crosslinguistic) symmetry,
as these two asymmetric patterns “add up” to a symmetric pattern, so to
speak.
Let me conclude this section by noting that the issue of symmetric move-
ment (or the lack thereof) is not limited to passive movement. As pointed
out by Di Sciullo (2005), for example, locative inversion and predicate
inversion could be seen as other examples of symmetric A-movement. If
locative inversion involves the structure in (21a), the symmetry comes from
the fact that either the DP or the PP can move to the specifier of TP, as
shown in (21b–c), respectively.4
(21) a. [TP
__ T[EPP]
[vP
[DP
John] … [PP
down the hill] ] ]
b. [TP
Johni
[T’
ti
rolled down the hill] ]
c. [TP
Down the hilli
[T’
rolled John ti
] ] (Collins 1997a:10)
4.3 Polish double object constructions 115
Inversion in copular clauses leads to the same conclusion. On the assump-
tion that specificational and predicational copular clauses are derived from
the same underlying structure, given in (22a) below (as argued by Den
Dikken 2006, Mikkelsen 2005, Moro 2000, among others), the fact that
either the subject or the predicate can move to [Spec,TP] could be seen as
another instance of symmetric movement.5
(22) a. [TP
__ [T’
T[EPP]
[‘SC’
[DP1
John] [DP2
the cause of the riot] ] ] ]
b. [TP
Johni
[T’
T[EPP]
[‘SC’
ti
[DP2
the cause of the riot] ] ] ]
c. [TP
The cause of the rioti
[T’
T[EPP]
[‘SC’
[DP1
John] ti
] ] ] (Moro 2000:41)
The issue extends to A-bar movement, where violations of superiority
could be seen as yet another example of symmetric movement. We saw in
Chapter 2 that English, for example, allows violations of superiority in dis-
course-linked wh-questions, such as the ones in (23a–c).
(23) a. [CP
__ C [TP
which student read which article] ]
b. [CP
Which studenti
[C’
C [TP
ti
read which article? ] ] ]
c. [CP
Which articlei
[C’
did [TP
which student read ti
? ] ] ]
However, the question of whether the movements that we see in locative
inversion, copular constructions or multiple wh-questions are truly sym-
metric (in the sense of involving two elements marked with the same feature
moving to the same position for the same reason) is far from being settled
(see the discussion in Chapter 2 for some alternative proposals about supe-
riority-violating wh-movement, for example). This is why I limit my atten-
tion in this chapter to passive movement in double object constructions, as
it is clear that the movement of a direct or an indirect object to the subject
position is the same kind of movement driven by the same kind of feature
to the same kind of position.
4.3 Polish double object constructions
We saw above that Polish is an asymmetric language in that it only allows
its direct objects to passivize. Further examples are given below; (24a–c) are
the base examples in the active voice, (25a–c) are the grammatical direct
object passives, and (26a–c) are the ungrammatical indirect object passives.
(24) a. Jan wysłał Piotrkowi present.
John.nom sent Peter.dat present.acc
‘John sent Peter a present.’
116 Symmetry in Move
b. Uszyję córce nową sukienkę.
sew daughter.dat new.acc dress.acc
‘I’ll sew my daughter a new dress.’
c. Zamawiam sobie nowy płaszcz.
order myself.dat new.acc coat.acc
‘I’m ordering myself a new coat.’ (Swan 2002:345)
(25) a. Prezenti
został wysłany Piotrkowi ti
.
present.nom became sent Piotr.dat
‘A present was sent to Piotr.’
b. Nowa sukienkai
została uszyta córce ti
.
new dress.nom became sewn daughter.dat
‘A new dress was made for the daughter.’
c. Nowy płaszczi
został mi zamówiony ti
.
new coat.nom became me.dat ordered
‘A new coat was ordered for me.’
(26) a. * Piotri
został wysłany ti
present.
Piotr.nom became sent present.acc
b. * Córkai
została uszyta ti
nową sukienkę.
daughter.nom became sewn new.acc dress.acc
c. * Jai
zostałam zamówiona ti
nowy płaszcz.
I.nom became ordered new.acc coat.acc
While passivization of direct objects is what we see with the vast majority
of verbs, namely those that mark their indirect objects with dative case
and their direct objects with accusative case, it is not the only possibility.
First, as discussed by Dziwirek (1994, 2002), there is a small class of verbs
that allows only indirect objects to passivize. They differ from the verbs
considered above in that the indirect object is accusative (rather than
dative) and the direct object is genitive (rather than accusative). These are
verbs like uczyć ‘teach’ or pozbawić ‘deprive’.6
(27) a. Ewa uczyła Janka matematyki.
Eve.nom taught John.acc math.gen
‘Eve taught John math.’ (Dziwirek 2002:335)
b. Ostatnie wiadomości pozbawiły Ewę nadziei.
last news.nom deprived Eve.acc hope.gen
‘Recent news deprived Eve of hope.’ (Dziwirek 2002:341, fn 1)
They allow indirect objects to passivize but disallow direct ones to do so,
which is the opposite of what happens with verbs like dać ‘give’ or wysłać
‘send’.
(28) a. ? Janeki
będzie uczony ti
matematyki przez Ewę.
John.nom will.be taught math.gen by Eve
‘John will be taught math by Eve.’ (Dziwirek 2002:336)
4.3 Polish double object constructions 117
b. Ewai
została pozbawiona ti
nadziei przez ostatnie
Eve became deprived hope.gen by last
wiadomości.
news
‘Eve was deprived of hope by recent news.’
(29) a. * Matematykai
będzie uczona Janka ti
przez Ewę.
math.nom will.be taught John.acc by Eve
‘Math will be taught to John by Eve.’ (Dziwirek 2002:336)
b. * Nadziejai
została pozbawiona Ewę ti
przez-ostatnie
hope.nom became deprived Eve.acc by last
wiadomosci.
news
‘Eve was deprived of hope by recent news.’
Furthermore, with uczyć ‘teach’, passivization of the direct object becomes
possible if the indirect object object is absent:
(30) Matematykai
była uczona ti
przez filozofów.
math.nom was taught by philosophers
‘Math was taught by philosophers.’
This is not surprising and is related to the fact that the verb uczyć ‘to teach’
is not an obligatorily ditransitive verb. It can also be transitive, with its
sole internal argument being either a theme or a benefactive, as shown in
(31a–b). The grammatical passive in (30) above is thus the passive of (31a).
(31) a. Filozofowie uczyli matematyki.
philosophers.nom taught math.gen
‘Philosophers taught math.’
b. Filozofowie uczyli studentów.
philosophers.nom taught students.acc
‘Philosophers taught students.’
Polish also has double object verbs that take dative indirect objects and
genitive direct objects. Examples of such verbs include zabronić ‘forbid’,
odmówić ‘refuse’ and udzielić ‘grant’.
(32) a. Strażnik zabronił wszystkim wejścia.
guard.nom forbade all.dat entry.gen
‘The guard forbade entry to all.’
b. Rząd udzielił więźniom politycznym amnestii.
government.nom granted prisoners.dat political.dat amnesty.gen
‘Political prisoners were granted amnesty by the government.’
c. Ambasada odmówiła nam wszystkim wiz.
embassy.nom denied nam.dat all.dat visas.gen
‘The embassy denied us all visas.’
118 Symmetry in Move
With respect to passivization, these verbs behave the same way dative accu-
sative verbs do; they allow direct objects to passivize and disallow indirect
ones to do so.
(33) a. Wejściei
zostało wszystkim ti
zabronione.
entry.nom became everyone.dat forbidden
‘Entry was forbidden to everyone.’
b. Amnestiai
została udzielona więźniom politycznym ti
.
amnesty.nom became granted prisoners.dat political.dat
‘Amnesty was granted to political prisoners.’
c. Wizyi
zostały nam wszystkim odmówione ti
przez
visas.nom became us.dat all.dat denied by
ambasadę.
embassy.acc
‘Visas were denied to us all by the embassy.’
(34) a. ?* Wszyscyi
zostali zabronieni ti
wejścia.
all became denied entry
‘All were denied entry.’
b. ?* Więźniowie politycznii
zostali udzieleni ti
amnestii
prisoners.nom political.nom became granted amnesty.gen
przez rząd.
by government.acc
‘Political prisoners were granted amnesty by the government.’
c. ?* My wszyscyi
zostaliśmy odmówieni ti
wiz
we.nom all.nom became denied visas.gen
przez ambasadę.
by embassy.acc
‘We all were denied visas by the embassy.’
The table in (35) summarizes the behavior of Polish double object verbs
with respect to case marking and passivization.
(35) Polish double object verbs: summary
Verb type Passive of DO Passive of IO Examples
Verb IODAT
DOACC
✓ * dać ‘give’ wysłać ‘send’
Verb IOACC
DOGEN
* ✓ uczyć ‘teach’ pozbawić ‘deprive’
Verb IODAT
DOGEN
✓ * udzielić ‘grant’, odmówić ‘refuse’
The issue of whether the direct or the indirect object can passivize is in
principle different from the issue of whether the higher or the lower object
can passivize. How they are related depends on the underlying ordering of
the two objects. In Chapter 2 we saw evidence that in English the indirect
object c-commands the direct one. This is a somewhat more contentious
4.3 Polish double object constructions 119
issue in a language like Polish, which allows both orders of the two objects,
as shown in (36a–b).
(36) a. Jan dał Marii książkę. IODAT
> DOACC
Jan.nom gave Maria.dat book.acc
‘Jan gave Maria a book.’
b. Jan dał książkę Marii. DOACC
> IODAT
Jan.nom gave book.acc Maria.dat
‘Jan gave Maria a book.’
The question is which of the two orders is basic and which one derived. Or
even more fundamentally, are the two orders transformationally related at
all? Both of the questions are far from being settled. Dornisch (1998), for
example, takes the basic order in Polish to be DO IO (see also Bailyn 1995,
in press, for similar claims about Russian). I argue below that the basic
order is IO DO instead. Dyakonova (2007, 2009) makes a similar case
for Russian, and Dvořák (in press) and Kučerová (2007) for Czech.7
This
issue is not unique to Slavic languages. (37a–b) show that both orders are
also possible in Japanese, a typologically very different language.
(37) a. Taroo-ga Hanako-ni nimotu-o okutta.
Taro-nom Hanako-dat package-acc sent
‘Taro sent Hanako a package.’
b. Taoo-ga nimotu-o Hanako-ni okutta.
Taro-nom package-acc Hanako-dat sent
‘Taro sent a package to Hanako.’ (Miyagawa and Tsujioka 2004:5)
Hoji (1985) takes the IO DO order in (37a) to be basic, and the DO IO
order in (37b) to be derived via scrambling. Miyagawa (1995, 1997) and
Miyagawa and Tsujioka (2004), on the other hand, argue that the two
orders are not transformationally derived, but are a reflex of two different
argument structures, corresponding to the English double object structure
and to-dative structure, respectively. What allows for such an analysis is
the fact that ni is ambiguous between a dative marker and a preposition in
Japanese.
We could extend this analysis to Polish and assume that the IO DO word
order is a true double object construction and that the DO IO order corre-
sponds to a PP ditransitive construction. However, if this were the case, we
would expect the DO IO order in Polish to be subject to the same restric-
tions as English double object constructions. This is not what we find. One
restriction, discussed by Green (1974) and Oehrle (1976), among others,
concerns the infelicitous status of locations as indirect objects in double
object constructions, illustrated in (38a–b):8
120 Symmetry in Move
(38) a. John sent a book to Paris.
b. # John sent Paris a book.
In Polish, both orders are equally infelicitous with locative goals, and
contrast with sentences containing locative PPs:
(39) a. # Jan wysłał książkę Paryżowi.
Jan.nom sent book.acc Paris.dat
b. # Jan wysłał Paryżowi książkę.
Jan.nom sent Paris.dat book.acc
c. Jan wysłał książkę do Paryża.
Jan.nom sent book.acc to Paris
‘Jan sent a book to Paris.’
This suggests that we are dealing with a true double object construction in
both cases, irrespective of the word order involved.
Discourse considerations also suggest that for double object verbs like
wysłać ‘send’ or dać ‘give’ the IO DO order is basic, and the DO IO order is
derived. The IO DO word order is used as a response to a discourse-neutral
question like What happened?, as shown in (40a–b).9
(40) a. Co się stało?
what refl happened
‘What happened?’
b. Jan wysłał Ewie paczkę.
Jan.nom sent Ewe.dat package.acc
‘John sent Eve a package.’
The DO IO is also possible, but it would be an appropriate answer to a
more specific question about the identity of the indirect object, as shown
in (41a–b).
(41) a. Komu Jan wysłał paczkę?
who.dat Jan.nom sent package.acc
‘Who did Jan send a package to?’
b. Jan wysłał paczkę Ewie.
Jan.nom sent package.acc Ewe.dat
‘Jan sent Ewe a package.’
The relative height of the two objects in Polish can also be determined
by applying the familiar Barss and Lasnik’s (1986) diagnostics. They
confirm that the indirect object c-commands the direct one. The contrast in
(42a–b) shows that the IO is higher than the DO with respect to pronominal
binding; (43a–b) show that the IO is higher than the DO with respect to
variable binding.10
4.3 Polish double object constructions 121
(42) a. Jan pokazał Mariii
jeji
szefową.
Jan.nom showed Maria.dat her.acc boss.acc
‘Jan showed Maria her boss.’
b. * Jan pokazał jeji
szefowej Marięi
.
Jan.nom showed her.dat boss.dat Maria.acc
‘Jan showed Maria to her boss.’
(43) a. Jan dał każdemui
pracownikowi jegoi
czek.
Jan.nom gave every.dat owner.dat his.acc check.acc
‘Jan gave every owner his check.’
b. * Jan dał jegoi
właścicielowi każdy czek.
Jan.nom gave his.dat owner.dat every.acc check.acc
‘Jan gave its owner every check.’
Not all of the Barss and Lasnik (1986) diagnostics are applicable to Polish.
We saw above that passivization does not (necessarily) determine the rela-
tive height of the two objects, since the two objects are marked with differ-
ent cases. The contrast in (44a–b) shows that only structural case is affected
by passive morphology, not that direct objects are higher than indirect
objects.
(44) a. * Jani
został dany ti
książkę.
Jan.nom became given book.acc
‘Jan was given a book.’
b. Książkai
została dana Janowi ti
.
book.nom became given Jan.dat
‘A book was given to Jan.’
Likewise, superiority is not a good diagnostic, since Polish in general does
not show superiority effects. The grammaticality of both (45a) and (45b)
thus does not tell us anything useful about the underlying order of the two
objects either.
(45) a. Co komu Jan wysłał?
what.acc who.dat Jan.nom sent
‘What did Jan send to whom?’
b. Komu co Jan wysłał?
who.dat what.acc Jan.nom sent
‘To whom did Jan send what?’
Weak crossover effects, however, do point toward the IO DO being the
base order, as this is the only order that yields the right crossover configu-
ration in (46a–b). (46a) is correctly predicted to be grammatical, as the wh-
moved indirect object does not cross the coindexed direct object. (46b),
on the other hand, in which the moved wh-phrase crosses a coindexed
122 Symmetry in Move
pronoun, is correctly predicted to be ungrammatical. If the base order
were DO IO instead, we would expect the opposite results: (46a) to be
ungrammatical as a violation of weak crossover and (46b) to be gram-
matical.11
(46) a. Któremu pracownikowii
wysłałaś ti
jegoi
czek?
which.dat employee.dat sent his.acc check.acc
‘Which employee did you send his check?’
b. * Czyji
czek wysłałaś jegoi
właścicielowi ti
?
whose check.acc sent his. dat owner.dat
‘Whose check did you send to its owner?’
4.4 Polish dative subjects
The generalization established in the previous section that Polish dative
indirect objects do not passivize might seem falsified in view of exam-
ples such as the ones given in (47a–c), in which indirect objects undergo
movement to what look like subject positions.
(47) a. Ewiei
zostały dane ti
kwiaty.
Ewa.dat became given flowers .nom
‘Ewa was given flowers.’
b. Więźniom politycznymi
została udzielona ti
amnestia.
prisoners.dat political.dat became granted amnesty.nom
‘The government granted political prisoners amnesty.’
c. Nami
została odmówiona ti
wiza.
we.dat became denied visa.nom
‘We were denied a visa.’
Since Polish allows dative subjects, examples of which we will see shortly,
it is not unreasonable to wonder whether the fronted datives in (47a–c) are
subjects or not. To answer this question, I rely on standard subjecthood
diagnostics established in the literature: subject–verb agreement, reflexive
binding, subject-to-subject raising and adjunct control.12
These diagnostics
were applied to Polish subjects (nominative and dative alike) by Dziwirek
(1994), whose findings I rely on in this section.
First, let us establish that Polish nominative subjects behave as expected
with respect to all these diagnostics. The data in (48a–d) show that they do;
they determine verb agreement (as shown in (48a)), they can bind subject-
oriented reflexives (as shown in (48b)), they can undergo subject-to-subject
raising (as shown in (48c)), and they can control adjuncts (as shown
in (48d)).13
4.4 Polish dative subjects 123
(48) a. Jan napisał książkę. agreement
Jan.nom write.past.3sg.masc book.acc
‘Jan wrote a book.’
b. Jani
lubi swojei
książki. reflexive binding
Jan.nom likes refl books.acc
‘Jan likes his books.’
c. Jani
wydaje się ti
być dobrym kolegą. raising
Jan.nom seems refl be good.instr friend.instr
‘Jan seems to be a good friend.’
d. Jani
zobaczył Piotraj
po pijanemui/*j
. adjunct control
Jan.nom saw Piotr.acc while drunk.instr
‘Jan saw Piotr (while Jan was drunk).’
With this as background, we can compare the behavior of fronted datives
in double object constructions with the behavior of canonical dative sub-
jects in the language. The ones I use for comparison here are experiencer
subjects of the kind illustrated in (49a–b).14
(49) a. Ewie było żal Janka.
Ewa.dat be.past.3sg.neut sorry Jan.gen
‘Ewa was sorry for Jan.’
b. Ewie podoba się ta książka.
Ewa.dat please.pres.3sg.neut refl this.nom book.nom
‘Ewa likes this book.’
Such dative subjects behave like nominative subjects with respect to all but
one diagnostic. They do not trigger verb agreement; the verb forms used
in (49a–b) above are the default third person singular neuter forms. Using
agreeing forms instead results in ungrammaticality, as shown in (50a).
However, they can bind reflexives (as shown in (50b)), they can undergo
raising (as shown in (50c)), and they can control into adjunct clauses (as
shown in (50d)). 15
(50) a. * Ewie była żal Janka.
Ewa.dat be.past.3sg.fem sorry Jan.gen
‘Ewa was sorry for Jan.’
b. Ewiei
było żal siebiei
.
Ewa.dat was sorry refl
‘Ewa felt sorry for herself.’
c. Ewiei
wydaje się ti
być żal studentów.
Ewa.dat seems refl be sorry students.gen
‘Ewa seems to feel sorry for the students.’
d. Jankowii
żal jest Piotraj
po pijanemui/*j
.
Jan.dat sorry is Piotr.gen while drunk
‘Jan feels sorry for Piotr when he (Jan) is drunk.’
124 Symmetry in Move
The issue of why dative subjects fail the agreement test, while interesting
in itself, is not directly relevant for our purposes here. What is relevant is
the fact that fronted datives in double object constructions do not behave
like subjects with respect to any of the subjecthood diagnostics. First,
they do not trigger verb agreement (as shown in (51a)); second, they
cannot bind subject-oriented reflexives (as shown in (51b)); third, they do
not allow subject-to-subject raising (as shown in (51c)); and fourth, they
cannot control the adjunct po pijanemu ‘while drunk’ (as shown in (51d)).
(51) a. * Nami
zostaliśmy wysłani ti
paczka.
we.dat become.past.1pl send.past.part.1pl package.nom
‘We got sent a package.’
b. * Ewiei
została wysłana ti
swojai/j
paczka.
Ewa.dat became sent refl package.nom
przez Jankaj
.
by Jan
‘Ewa was sent her package by Jan.’
c. * Jankowii
wydaje się ti
zostać wysłana ti
paczka.
Jan.dat seems refl become.inf sent package.nom
‘Jan seems to have been sent a package.’
d. * Jankowii
została wysłana ti
paczka przez Piotra
Jan.dat became sent package.nom by Piotr
po pijanemui
.
while drunk
‘Jan was sent a package by Piotr while he [Jan] was drunk.’
To rule out the possibility that the subjecthood diagnostics used here work
only for nonderived subjects, let us look at how passivized direct objects
behave with respect to the same diagnostics. The examples in (52a–d) show
that with respect to all the diagnostics, they behave like true subjects. Thus,
they agree with both the auxiliary and the participle (as shown in (52a));
they can antecede subject-oriented reflexives (as shown in (52b)); they
can undergo subject-to-subject raising (as shown in (52c)); and they can
control the adjunct po pijanemu ‘while drunk’ (as shown in (52d)).
(52) a. Jani
został przedstawiony ti
Jan.NOM.3SG become.past.3SG.MASC introduce.part.3SG.MASC
Marii.
Maria.dat
‘Jan was introduced to Maria.’
b. Jani
został przedstawiony ti
swojemui
szefowi.
Jan.nom became introduced refl.dat boss.dat
‘Jan got introduced to his (own) boss.’
4.5 Interim summary and preview 125
c. Jani
wydaje się ti
być już przedstawiony ti
wszystkim
Jan.nom seems refl be already introduced all.dat
pracownikom.
employees.dat
‘Jan seems to have already been introduced to all his employees.’
d. Jani
został przedstawiony ti
wszystkim po pijanemui
.
Jan.nom became introduced all.dat while drunk
‘Jan was introduced to everyone while he (Jan) was drunk.’
The table in (53) summarizes the findings of this section. It shows that
fronted datives in double object constructions are not subjects, as they
differ from dative subjects (as well as passivized direct objects) with respect
to standard subjecthood diagnostics. Thus their existence does not falsify
the observation that Polish is an asymmetric passivization language, in
which only one object can passivize
(53) Behavior of Polish subjects: summary
Double object constructions
Nominative Dative Passivized Fronted dative
subjects subjects direct objects indirect objects
Verb Agreement ✓ * ✓ *
Reflexive Binding ✓ ✓ ✓ *
Raising to Subject ✓ ✓ ✓ *
Adjunct Control ✓ ✓ ✓ *
4.5 Interim summary and preview
To sum up the discussion so far, we saw four distinct passivization patterns
in double object constructions. They distinguish not only one language (or
dialect) from another, but also one type of a double object construction
from another type. In asymmetric passives, only one of the two objects
can undergo passive movement. In American English, Danish, Swahili
benefactives and goals, and Kinyarwanda benefactives (and in the small set
of Polish double object constructions), it is the indirect object (as shown
schematically in (54a)), whereas in languages like German or Spanish
(and in the vast majority of Polish double object constructions), it is the
direct object (as shown in (54b)). In symmetric passives, either the direct or
the indirect object can passivize, as shown in (54c). This is what we see in
126 Symmetry in Move
British English, Norwegian, Icelandic, Swahili locatives and Kinyarwarda
goals, for example.
(54) a. TP
IOi
[EPP]
ti
DO
T
b.
DOi
T[EPP]
IO
ti
TP
c. TP
IOi DOi
[EPP] [EPP]
ti
TP
T T
IO
DO ti
The main question I address in the rest of this chapter is what allows the
lower object to move to the subject position, as movement of the higher
object follows from standard locality considerations. Movement of the
lower object is possible in symmetric passives as well as in one type of an
asymmetric passive (i.e. the type illustrated in (54b)). Thus, the answer
to this question will lead to a deeper understanding of the mechanism
behind both symmetric and asymmetric passivization, and more gen-
erally, to a deeper understanding of the nature of symmetric movement
in the grammar. Another question we might ask about asymmetric pas-
sives of type (54b) is what freezes the higher object so that it cannot pas-
sivize instead. I argue that the answers to these two questions are related.
More specifically, I show that there are two ways for the lower object to
move to the subject position.16 It can move over the higher object first, as
shown in (55a), which makes it closer to T. If this movement is optional,
the indirect object can passivize as well, as shown in (55b), resulting in a
symmetric passive movement. This is what happens in Bantu languages
like Kinyarwarda, as argued by McGinnis (2001), for example. I refer
to this type of strategy as a locality-based strategy.17
Alternatively, the
4.6 Locality and symmetric passives 127
higher object can move to some position in which it is frozen for further
movements of the same type (and, crucially, does not block movement of
the lower object), as shown in (56a). This is what happens, I argue, in Polish
double object constructions. Anagnostopoulou (2003) makes a similar
claim about clitic doubling in Greek. Again, if the indirect object does not
move first, it can move directly to the subject position, as shown in (56b). I
refer to this type of strategy as a case-based strategy.18
(55) a. b.
DOi
ti
IO
ti
TP
T
(56) a. b.
IOi
[EPP]
ti
DO
TP
T
In this chapter, I motivate the need for these two strategies (follow-
ing Doggett 2004, Anagnostopoulou 2003, and McGinnis 1998, among
others). There are many approaches to the distinction between symmetric
and asymmetric passives that rely purely on locality, and I start off by exam-
ining them. The first one capitalizes on the correlation between the avail-
ability of symmetric passives and the availability of the word order in which
the direct object precedes the indirect one. And the second one links the
availability of symmetric passives to the availability of high applicatives in
the language, coupled with the assumption that high applicative heads are
phase heads. Next, I turn to case-based approaches, which derive different
passivization patterns from the differences in case-absorption mechanisms.
4.6 Locality and symmetric passives
4.6.1 Word order variation
Many accounts link the availability of direct object passives to the availa-
bility of the word order in which the direct object precedes the indirect one.
This could either be the result of movement (of the direct object over the
TP
DOi
T[EPP]
IOj
tj
ti
TP
IOi
T[EPP]
ti
DO
128 Symmetry in Move
indirect object) or base-generation of the DO IO order (in addition to the
IO DO order), as shown in (57a–b). In both cases, the direct object ends up
being closer to T and locality is respected when it passivizes.
(57) a. b.
T
DOi
IO
ti
T
DO
IO
This is the approach favored by Anagnostopoulou (2003), Doggett (2004)
and Ura (1996), among others.19
We saw above that there are dialects of
British English that allow either object to passivize, as shown in (58a–b).
(58) a. Johni
was given ti
a book.
b. A booki
was given John ti
.
There are also dialects of British English that allow “an alternative double
object construction,” a double object construction in which the direct
object precedes the indirect one. Representative examples are given in
(59a–c). While it is more common with pronominal objects, (59b) shows
that it is also possible with full DPs.20,21
(59) a. I gave it him. (Gast 2007: 31)
b. She gave a book the man. (Hughes and Trudgill 1979:21)
c. I got the map from his secretary, and when I gave it him he spread it
out on his desk. (Gast 2005:1)
If the alternative double object construction is the source of direct object
passives, the fact that either object can passivize follows from the availabil-
ity of the DO IO word order. However, the examples below show that the
correlation between the DO IO word order and the ability to passivize DO
breaks down across languages (see also Citko 2009, Doggett 2004, Yeong
2007, among others, for a discussion of this correlation). For example,
Marantz (1993) notes that in Chaga benefactives only the IO DO order is
possible, but either object can passivize:22
(60) a. N-a-i-lyi-i-a m-ka k-elya. Chaga
foc-sp-pres-eat-appl-fv wife food
‘He is eating food for his wife.’
b. * N-a-i-lyi-i-a k-elya m-ka.
foc-sp-pres-eat-appl-fv food wife
‘He is eating food for his wife.’ (Marantz 1993:121)
4.6 Locality and symmetric passives 129
(61) a. M-ka n-a-i-lyi-i-o k-elya.
wife foc-sp-prs-eat-appl-pass food
‘The wife is being affected by someone eating the food.’
b. K-elya k-i-lyi-o m-ka.
food sp-pres-eat-appl-pass wife
‘The food is being eaten for the wife.’ (Marantz 1993:126)
In Swahili benefactives, on the other hand, both orders are possible but
only a benefactive can passivize.
(62) a. Halima alimpa Fatuma zawadi. Swahili
Halima she-past-her-give Fatima gift
‘Halima gave Fatuma a gift.’
b. Halima alimpa zawadi Fatuma.
Halima she-past-her-give gift Fatuma
‘Halima gave Fatuma a gift.’
(63) a. Fatuma alipewa zawadi na Halima.
Fatuma she-past-give-pass gift by Halima
‘Fatuma was given a gift by Halima.’
b. * Zawadi ilipewa Fatuma na Halima.
gift it-past-give-pass Fatuma by Halima
‘A gift was given Fatuma by Halima.’
(Woolford 1993:686, citing Vitale 1981:130–1)
Languages like Polish also pose problems for the correlation between word
order and passivizability of direct objects. We saw in Section 4.3 that they
allow either order of the two objects but can only passivize one of them,
the direct one (in most cases). Note that on the locality-based account
under consideration here, passivization of direct objects has nothing to do
with case; all that matters is the direct object’s proximity to T. In principle,
it is also independent of the distinction between high and low applicatives
and is thus consistent with accounts that assume only one structure for
applicatives. Anagnostopoulou (2003) is an example of such an account;
she assumes a single structure, given in (64) below, which corresponds to
Pylkkänen’s high applicative structure in that a (verbal) applicative head
takes a VP as its complement and an IO as its specifier.
(64) (Anagnostopoulou 2003:157)
vP
IO v
vAPPL VP
V DO
Furthermore, she proposes the following parameter to distinguish lan-
guages with symmetric passives from languages with asymmetric pas-
130 Symmetry in Move
sives. The basic idea is the same; the direct object’s ability to move over the
indirect object is what makes it accessible to passive movement.23
(65) Specifier of vAPPL
Parameter (Anagnostopoulou 2003:157)
Symmetric movement languages license movement of DO to a specifier
of vAPPL
. In languages with asymmetric movement, movement of
DO may not proceed via vAPPL
.
To sum up, we saw in this section that the correlation between the avail-
ability of both IO DO and DO IO word orders and symmetric passivization
works only for some languages. On the one hand, there are languages that
allow both orders but lack symmetric passives, and on the other hand, there
are languages that allow only one order but nevertheless allow symmetric
passives. In the next section, I turn to a different type of a locality-based
account, which correlates the availability of symmetric passives with the
availability of a high applicative structure. It also relies on the movement of
the lower object over the higher one, but allows it only in high applicatives.
4.6.2 Movement through applicative phase edge
McGinnis in a series of papers attributes crosslinguistic variation in the
availability of symmetric passives to independently motivated variation in
the availability of high applicatives (McGinnis 2000, 2001, 2002, Gerdts
and McGinnis 2003). In particular, she proposes that a high applicative
head is a phase head, which means it has an EPP feature allowing the direct
object to move above the indirect object (to its outer specifier).24
This is
the position from which the direct object is closer to T for the purposes of
passive movement, as shown in (66).
(66) TP
vP
SUBJ vP
ApplHP
DOi ApplHP
IO ApplH
ApplH[EPP] VP
T
v
V ti
4.6 Locality and symmetric passives 131
By contrast, a low applicative head is not a phase head. This means that
the movement of the direct object to the specifier of ApplL
, illustrated
in (67a), is impossible. There are two reasons why. First, it lacks motiva-
tion (as a low applicative head does not have an EPP feature).25
Second,
it involves movement from a complement position to a specifier position,
which violates anti-locality by virtue of being too short, as argued by
Doggett (2004), Jeong (2007), Lee (2004), among others. The direct object,
being a complement of the applicative head, is already in its domain, thus
no new checking relationship is established by moving it to the specifier of
the same applicative head.26
Moving the direct object directly to [Spec,TP],
schematized in (67b), would violate any version of locality, due to the
presence of the intervening indirect object.
(67) a. b.
TP
DOi
T[EPP] vP
VP
V ApplL
ti ApplLP
L
T
P

v
IO Appl
ApplL ti
TP
DOi T
T[EPP] vP
v VP
LP
IO ApplL
V Appl
ApplL ti
Thus in a low applicative structure there is no way for the indirect object
to move over the direct object. While intuitively very appealing, this anal-
ysis makes some interesting predictions, an examination of which is my
goal in the remainder of this section (as well as in the two sections that
follow). In this section, I focus on the crosslinguistic validity of the corre-
lation between symmetric passives and high applicatives (see also the dis-
cussion in Jeong 2007), and in Sections 4.6.3 and 4.6.4 on the predictions
it makes for other types of movement, such as wh-movement or quantifier
raising.
We saw above that a single language can have both high and low appli-
catives. In such a language, we would expect only high applicatives to
be able to passivize. Swahili is a good example of a language in which
132 Symmetry in Move
different  types of applicatives exbibit different passivization behavior,
as shown in the table given in (68). Its benefactive, goal and malefactive
applicatives are asymmetric, whereas its instrumental, motive and loca-
tive applicatives are symmetric. A natural question to ask in this context
is whether there is any independent evidence for a split between these
two groups of applicatives along the high versus low dimension. For this
correlation to hold, benefactives, goals and malefactives would have to be
shown to be low applicatives, since they only allow passivization of the
higher (i.e. the applied) argument. While this might seem reasonable for
goal applicatives (which, given their interpretation, arguably belong to the
class of low applicatives), benefactive or malefactive applicatives gener-
ally behave like high applicatives (see Marantz 1993 for arguments that
benefactive arguments are generally merged higher than locative or instru-
mental ones).27
(68) Passivization patterns in Swahili (cf. Ngonyani 1996:47)
Benefactive Goal Malefactive Instrumental Motive Locative
Passive of IO ✓ ✓ ✓ ? ? ✓
Passive of DO * * * ? ✓ ✓ ✓
Furthermore, there is more concrete evidence against the correlation
between (the availability of) high applicatives and symmetric passiviza-
tion. There exist languages that allow high applicatives (according to
Pylkkänen’s original diagnostics) but lack symmetric passives. And there
are also languages that allow only low applicatives but have symmetric pas-
sives. McGinnis (2001) discusses Chichewa, which has high applicatives
but allows only indirect objects to passivize. Chichewa benefactives are
high applicatives; the evidence comes from the fact that they do not nec-
essarily involve transfer of possession (see (69a) below) and that they are
compatible with static verbs (see (69b)).
(69) a. A-na-dy-er-a mkazi wake chakudya. Chichewa
sp-past-eat-appl-fv woman his food.
‘He ate food for his wife.’
b. A-na-gwir-ir-a mkazi wake thumba.
sp-past-hold-appl-fv woman hisbag
‘He held the bag for his wife.’ (McGinnis 2001:134)
However, only applied arguments can passivize, which is what we would
expect from a low applicative (not a high one).28
4.6 Locality and symmetric passives 133
(70) a. Atsíkānai
a-na-gúl-ír-idw-á ti
mphâtso (ndí chítsîru).
2.girls 2s-pst-buy-appl-pass-fv 9.gift by 7.fool
‘The girls were bought a gift (by the fool).’
b. * Mphâtsoi
i-na-gúl-ír-idw-á átsíkāna ti
(ndí chítsîru).
9.gift 9s-pst-buy-appl-pass-fv 2.girls by 7.fool
‘A gift was bought for the girls (by the fool).’ (McGinnis 2001:134)
Slavic languages also allow high applicatives, as shown by the following
examples from Russian (Polish behaves analogously in this respect).
(71) a. Ja budu vam pet’ i tantsevat’. Russian
I.nom fut you.dat sing.inf and dance.inf
‘I will sing and dance for you.’
b. Ty sidiš mne na platje.
you.nom sit.pres me.dat on dress.loc
‘You are sitting on my dress.’
c. Ona izlagala nam svoj plan uže izrjadno
she.nom state.past us.dat self plan.acc already quite
vypivšim
tipsy.dat
‘She was telling us her plan while we were already quite tipsy.’
(Dyakonova 2007:19)
Yet, both Russian and Polish are asymmetric passivization languages, as
shown in Section 4.3 for Polish and in (72a–b) below for Russian.
(72) a. * Petri
byl dan/vyšit ti
rubašku. Russian
Petr.nom was given/embroidered shirt.acc
‘Peter was given/ embroidered a shirt.’ (Soschen 2005:6)
b. Rubaškai
byla vyšita Petru ti
.
shirt.nom was embroidered Petr.dat
‘Peter was embroidered a shirt.’ (Soschen 2005:4)
Another potential issue concerns the dialects of (British) English that
allow symmetric passives. There is no evidence that speakers of these dia-
lects allow high applicatives. If they did, we would expect (73a–c) to be
possible for them, contrary to fact
(73) a. * John ran Mary. (with the interpretation ‘John ran for Mary.’)
b. * John held Mary the door. (with the interpretation ‘John held the
door for Mary.’)
c. *John gave Maryi
a cookie hungryi
. (with ‘hungry’ modifying ‘Mary’)
A somewhat more tangential issue for any account based purely on
locality concerns applicatives that disallow passivization of either object.
Postal (2004), following Fillmore (1965), points out two types of double
object constructions in English: the ones that alternate with prepositional
134 Symmetry in Move
phrases headed by to, which he dubs Type A, and the ones that alter-
nate with prepositional phrases headed by for, which he dubs Type B.
In Type A direct object constructions, the indirect object is a goal (or a
recipient), whereas in Type B constructions, it is a benefactive.
(74) a. Armand sold her the six Uzis. (Type A)
b. Amand sold the six Uzis to her.
(75) a. Armand bought her the six Uzis. (Type B)
b. Armand bought the six Uzis for her.
Fillmore further points out that English benefactive double object
constructions differ from recipient or goal ones in that they disallow
passivization of either object:
(76) a. * Shei
was bought ti
the six Uzis by Armand.
b. * The six Uzisi
were bought her ti
by Armand.
(77) a. Shei
was sold ti
the six Uzis by Armand.
b. The six Uzisi
were sold her ti
by Armand. (Postal 2004:240)
More examples to illustrate ungrammatical passivization of either object
in English benefactives are given below.29
(78) a. * The visitorsi
must have been found ti
some food.
b. * Some foodi
must have been found the visitors ti
.
(79) a. * His parentsi
were carved ti
a statue.
b. * A statuei
was carved his parents ti
.
(80) a. * Maryi
is being built ti
a table by John.
b. * A tablei
is being built Mary ti
by John.
(81) a. * The guestsi
have just been roasted ti
a duck.
b. * A ducki
has just been roasted the guests ti
.
According to Pylkkänen’s diagnostics, since English lacks high appli-
catives, such ungrammatical passives have to be low applicatives. This,
however, seems at odds with Marantz’s (1993) observation that benefactive
applied objects (even in languages like English) are higher than other types
of applied objects. In fact, the structure he assigns to English benefactive
applicatives (as opposed to locative or instrumental ones) corresponds to
Pylkkänen’s high applicative structure. He motivates it by pointing out a
number of differences between benefactive applicatives on the one hand
and instrumental and locative ones on the other hand. One of these differ-
ences is the ability to form denominal verbs from instrumental and locative
4.6 Locality and symmetric passives 135
applicatives but not from benefactive ones, as shown by the contrast
between the grammatical (82a–b) and the ungrammatical (82c):30
(82) a. pound the nail with a hammer → hammer the nail
b. put the motion on the table → table the motion
c. do some favors for a friend → * friend some favors
(Marantz 1993:146)
This suggests that English benefactives are higher than locatives and
instrumentals. However, they cannot be as high as, say, Kinyarwanda bene-
factives, because if they were, we would expect them to be compatible with
unergative and stative predicates and allow symmetric passivization, con-
trary to fact.
4.6.3 Wh-movement from applicatives
If the presence of the EPP feature on an applicative head is what allows
movement of a direct object over an indirect one, we would expect all
movements from applicatives to be subject to the same restrictions. In this
section, I examine the behavior of applicatives with respect to wh-move-
ment, focusing on the predictions the two applicative structures make with
respect to superiority effects.
In multiple questions involving high applicatives, a direct object wh-
phrase moves over an indirect object wh-phrase to the outer specifier of the
applicative head, as shown in (83a). From this position, it is closer to C,
which predicts that we should find no superiority effects in high applica-
tives. Low applicatives, on the other hand, are predicted to show superiority
effects and allow only indirect object wh-phrases to move. Wh-movement of
the direct object, schematized in (83b), would violate locality.
(83) a. high applicative b. low applicative
WHi
C
ApplH
ti ApplHP
WH ApplH
ApplH
CP
C
P

VP
[EPP]
V ti
WHi C
C
V ApplLP
WH ApplL
CP
VP
ApplL ti
136 Symmetry in Move
Even though Polish has high applicatives, it is not a good language to
test this prediction. Since Polish never shows superiority effects, the
lack of superiority effects in high applicative constructions, illustrated
in (84a–b), has nothing to do with the type (and properties) of its
applicative heads.
(84) a. Coj
komui
Jan trzymał ti
tj
?
what whom Jan held
‘Whad did Jan hold for whom?’
c. Komui
coj
Jan trzymał ti
tj
?
whom what Jan held
‘For whom did Jan hold what?
Testing superiority effects in English double object constructions is also
tricky, since for many speakers wh-movement of indirect objects is impos-
sible even if the indirect object is the only wh-element. However, for speak-
ers that do allow wh-extraction of indirect objects, the predicted contrast
does appear to hold, as shown in (85a–b).
(85) a. ?? Whomi
did John give ti
what?
b. * Whati
did John give whom ti
?
Abstracting away from independent factors (such as the lack of superi-
ority in Polish and the ungrammaticality of indirect object extraction in
English), the predictions the two types of applicatives make regarding mul-
tiple wh-movement are confirmed.
In Citko (2009), I examined the predictions the two types of applicative
structures make regarding wh-movement in questions containing a single
wh-pronoun, which could be either a direct or an indirect object. To review
briefly: we do not expect to find any restrictions on wh-movement in such
cases; either the indirect or the direct object wh-pronoun should be able
to move out of either a high or a low applicative structure.31
(86a–b) illus-
trate wh-movement of a direct object and (87a–b) of an indirect one. All
four are predicted to be possible; since there is only one wh-phrase in each
structure, no intervention effects arise.32
4.6 Locality and symmetric passives 137
(86) a. high applicative b. low applicative
WHi C
Q
H
ti ApplHP
IO ApplH
ApplH

VP
[EPP]
ti
CP
C
Appl P
V
WHi C
CQ
V ApplLP
IO ApplL
ApplL ti
CP
VP
(87) a. high applicative b. low applicative
WHi
Q
H
CP
C
Appl P
ti ApplH
ApplH
[EPP]
V DO
C
VP
WHi C
CQ
CP
VP
V ApplLP
ti ApplL
ApplL DO
However, it is well-documented in the literature on double object con-
structions that the movement schematized in (87b) is not possible for
all, though it is for some, speakers of English, as shown by the following
contrast.33,34
(88) a. Whati shall we give John ti?
b. * Whoi shall we give ti a present?
This immobility of indirect objects is not limited to wh-questions; we see
the same pattern in other types of A-bar dependencies; Heavy NP Shift in
(89), tough movement in (90), relativization in (91), topicalization in (92),
and clefting in (93).
(89) Heavy NP Shift
a. * John sent ti a letter every musician in the orchestrai of all.
b. * Max gave ti a book about roses the tall man in the gardeni.
c. * Mary promised ti
to win some spectator in the grandstandsi
.
(Larson 1988:354)
138 Symmetry in Move
d. * Anne gave ti
a present the person she liked most of alli
.
(Hudson 1992:256)
e. * Charlie baked ti
that cake the girl who lives next doori
.
(Emonds and Whitney 2006:94)
(90) Tough movement
a. *? John is tough OPi
to give ti
a present. (Larson 1988:355)
b. * Kids are always easy OPi
to tell ti
a story/buy presents.
(Emonds and Whitney 2006:94)
(91) Relativization
a. * These are the girls OPi
that the fool bought ti
the gift.
(Marantz 1993:133)
b. % The girl whoi
I gave ti
flowers is Mary.
c. % Nobody whoi
I send ti
an email message ever replies.
(Hudson 1992:258)
(92) Topicalization
* ? Johni
, Mary said that she gave ti
a present. (Larson 1988:355)
(93) Clefting
* It is Bill OPi
(that) John gave ti
the book.
The data thus show that there is no correlation between the ability to
passivize a given object and the ability to wh-move it. The table given in
(94) shows that it is not a quirk of English; Swahili also shows no cor-
relation between the ability to wh-move a given object and the ability to
passivize it.
(94) Object properties in Swahili applicative constructions (adapted from
Ngonyani 1996:47)
Benef. Goal Malef. Instr. Motive Locative
Passivization applied object ✓ ✓ ✓ ? ? ✓
direct object * * * ? ✓ ✓ ✓
Wh-extraction applied object * * * ✓ ✓ ✓
direct object ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Instrumental, motive and locative applicatives behave as expected; both
direct and applied objects can undergo both passivization and wh-
movement. The examples below provide an illustration involving instru-
mental applicatives. Since Swahili is a wh-in-situ language, the examples in
(95a–b) involve relativization (not wh-movement); in (95a) the applied
4.6 Locality and symmetric passives 139
object kisu ‘knife’ is relativized, and in (95b) the direct object muwa ‘sugar
cane’ is. Either of them can be passivized, as shown in (96a–b).
(95) a. Ki-su amba-cho wa-li-kat-i-a mu-wa.
7-knife rel-7 2sa-past-cut-appl-fv 3-sugar cane
‘The knife with which they cut sugar cane.’
b. Mu-wa amba-o wa-li-kat-i-a ki-su.
3-sugar cane rel-3 2sa-past-cut-appl-fv 7-knife
‘The sugar cane which they cut with the knife.’
(Ngonyani 1996:44–5)
(96) a. ?ma-we ya-li-vunj-i-w-a vy-ungu.
6-rock 6sa-past-break-appl-pass-fv 8-pot
‘The rocks were used to break pots with.’
b. ?ch-ungu ki-li-vunj-i-w-a ma-we.
7-pot 7-sa-past-break-appl-pass-fv 6-rock
‘The pot was broken with rocks.’
(Ngonyani 1996:38–9)
Benefactives, goals, and malefactives behave differently; only direct objects
can be relativized but only applied objects can be passivized:35
(97) a. M-toto a-li-nunul-i-w-a ki-tabu.
1-child 1sa-past-1oa-bring-appl-pass-fv 7-book
‘The child had a book bought for him.’
b. * Ki-tabu ki-li-nunul-i-w-a m-toto.
7-book 7sa-past-buy-appl-pass-fv 1-boy
‘The book was bought for the child.’ (Ngonyani 1996: 38–9)
(98) a. * M-toto amba-ye wa-li-nunul-i-a zawadi.
1-childrel-1 2sa-past-buy-appl-fv 9present
‘The child whom they bought a present for.’
b. Zawadi amba-zo wa-li-nunul-i-a wa-too.
10present rel-10 2sa-past-buy-appl-fv 2-child
‘The presents which they bought for the child.’
(Ngonyani 1996:44–5)
The lack of a correlation between the ability of a given object to undergo
passive movement and its ability to undergo wh-movement is surprising
if all movements have to proceed through phase edges. The phase theory
does not allow a given head (be it a high or a low applicative head) to be a
phase head with respect to some movements but not with respect to others.
In the next section, I examine the predictions that the existence of two
different applicative structures (coupled with the assumption that only one
of them is a phase) makes for quantifier raising.
140 Symmetry in Move
4.6.4 Quantifier raising from applicatives
The discussion in this section rests on two fairly standard assumptions
about the nature of quantifier raising (QR). First, it assumes that QR is an
instance of covert phrasal movement. Second, it assumes that the landing
site for QR is the vP, which is the lowest constituent of the right semantic
type.36
Since low applicative heads are not phase heads, raised quantifiers can
move directly to vP. Logically speaking, there are two ways it can happen;
either the IO moves first and the DO tucks in below it (as shown in (99a))
or the IO moves first and the DO stacks on top of it (as shown in (99b)).
(99) a. b.
TP
T vP
IOi vP
DOj vP
SUBJ v
v VP
V ApplLP
ti ApplL
1st
move
tj
2nd
move
ApplL
TP
T vP
DOj vP
IOi vP
SUBJ v
v VP
V ApplLP
ti ApplL
tj
1st
move
2nd
move
ApplL
However, Bruening (2001) argues that QR only allows tucking in, which
excludes (99b), and leaves us with (99a) as the only possibility. This is
what allows him to account for the fact, noted by Aoun and Li (1989) and
Larson (1990) (who attributes the observation to David Lebeaux, per-
sonal communication), that double object constructions in English, unlike
their PP counterparts, have frozen scope. The examples in (100a–b) and
(101a–b) provide an illustration; the PP ditransitives in (100a) and (101a)
are scopally ambiguous; the universal quantifier inside the PP can have
either wide or narrow scope with respect to the indefinite direct object.
This is to be expected in a language like English, in which inverse scope
is generally possible. What is interesting (and somewhat unexpected) is
that their double object counterparts do not allow inverse scope. Thus,
in (100b) every book does can have only narrow scope with respect to a
different student, and in (101b), every problem can have only narrow scope
with respect to one student. In other words, (100b) lacks the interpretation
4.6 Locality and symmetric passives 141
in which every book was given to a different student, and (101b) lacks the
interpretation in which every problem was solved by a different student.
(100) a. The teacher gave a (different) book to every student.
a > every, every > a
b. The teacher gave a (# different) student every book.
a > every, * every > a
(Bruening 2001:235)
(101) a. The teacher assigned one problem to every student.
one > every, every > one
b. The teacher assigned one student every problem.
one > every, *every > one
(Larson 1990:604)
Furthermore, it is not the case that the direct object has to get its scope in
situ. The examples in (102a–b) show it can get wide scope with respect to
the subject; in (102a) books can co-vary with teachers and in (102b) medals
can co-vary with judges.
(102) a. A (different) teacher gave me every book. every > a
b. At least two judges awarded me every medal. every > at least two
(Bruening 2001:243)
The trick is to allow the direct object to scope over the subject, while freez-
ing its scope relative to the indirect object. To do so, Bruening (2001)
proposes the following derivation for the example in (101b) above. Both
objects undergo covert movement to the closest position in which they can
be interpreted, which is the vP adjoined position. The indirect object moves
first, as shown in (103a), and the direct object moves next, tucking in below
the indirect object, as shown in (103b).
(103) a. [TP
the teacherk
[vP
one studenti
[vP
tk
v [VP
assigned ti
every problem] ] ] ]
b. [TP
the teacherk
[vP
one studenti
[vP
every problemj
[vP
tk
v
[VP
assigned ti
tj
] ] ] ] ]
The fact that indirect objects can have scope over subjects is not a problem,
as the landing sites for the two QR-ed objects are above the base-generated
position of the subject. In such cases, the subject is interpreted in its base
position, thus it is going to have narrow scope with respect to both the
direct and the indirect object.
Bruening’s account of frozen scope in double object constructions makes
an interesting crosslinguistic prediction. In particular, it predicts that a lan-
guage with no superiority effects in wh-questions should allow both scope
142 Symmetry in Move
possibilities in double object constructions. This prediction was recently
tested by Stepanov and Stateva (2009), who formulate it as in (104).
(104) A language shows Superiority effects with QR if and only if it shows
Superiority effects with wh-movement. (Stepanov and Stateva 2009:177)
The presence of superiority effects in quantifier movement is diagnosed by
scope; frozen scope is a sign of superiority effects. This correlation cannot
hold in its strongest form without some extra caveats. While it holds in
English double object constructions, it breaks down in simple transitive
clauses. English shows superiority effects in multiple wh-questions involv-
ing subjects and objects (as shown in (105a–b)) but allows scope ambi-
guity with quantified subjects and objects (as shown in (106a–b)), which
indicates that QR in English can violate superiority.
(105) a. Who visited whom?
b. * Whom did who visit?
(106) a. Some visitor visited every museum. some > every, every > some
b. Every visitor visited some museum. every > some, some > every
Polish, on the other hand, is a multiple wh-fronting language that allows
violations of superiority in wh-questions, as shown in (107a–b).
(107) a. Komui
coj
nauczyciel zadał ti
tj
?
who.dat what.acc teacher.nom assigned?
‘Whom did the teacher assign what?’
b. Coj
komui
nauczyciel zadał ti
tj
?
what.acc who.dat teacher.nom assigned
‘What did the teacher assign to whom?’
This predicts that Polish double object constructions should be scopally
ambiguous. This is not what we find; scope is fixed, as shown in (108a–b).37
(108) a. Nauczyciel zadał każdemu studentowi jedno
teacher.nom assigned every.dat student.dat one.acc
zadanie.
problem.acc
‘The teacher assigned every student one problem.’
every > one, * one > every
b. Nauczyciel zadał jednemu studentowi każde zadanie.
teacher.nom assigned one.dat student.dat every.acc problem.acc
‘The teacher assigned one student every problem.’
one > every, * every > one
Frozen scope in Polish double object constructions thus cannot be due to
superiority, as Polish generally does not obey superiority.38
4.6 Locality and symmetric passives 143
The idea that high applicatives are phase heads also makes an interesting
prediction about scope in high applicative constructions. Namely, it pre-
dicts that a direct object undergoing QR should have to move through the
edge of a high applicative phrase, as shown in (109). Now the direct object
is closer to v, so it will move first and the indirect object has to tuck in
below it.
(109) TP
T vP
DOi vP
IOj vP
SUBJ v
v ApplHP
ti ApplHP
tj ApplH
3rd
move
ApplH VP
EPP
V ti
2nd
move 1st
move
This derivation predicts that high applicatives should only allow inverse
scope unless we parametrize tucking in or assume the first step is optional,
in which case either scope should be possible. However, this is not what we
see in Polish. Both examples in (110a–b) involve high applicatives because
of the use of the stative verb trzymać ‘to hold’. Scope, however, is also fixed
in such examples, and reflects the order of the two objects, which is the
opposite of what we would expect from the structure in (109).39
(110) a. Maria trzymała każdemu gościowi jedne drzwi.
Maria.nom held every.dat guest.dat one.acc door.acc
‘Maria was holding one door for every guest.’
every > one, * one > every
b. Maria trzymała jednemu gościowi każde drzwi.
Maria.nom held one.dat guest.dat every.acc door.acc
‘Maria was holding every door for one guest.’
* every > one, one > every
The conclusion that emerges from the discussion in this section (and the
two sections preceding it) is that appealing to locality (which allows direct
144 Symmetry in Move
objects to passivize only if they move above indirect objects first) cannot
be the only explanation for why in some languages passive movement is
a symmetric operation and in others it is not. We saw problems with the
correlation between symmetric passives and the availability of DO IO and
IO DO word orders (Section 4.6.1) as well as with the correlation between
symmetric passives and the availability of high applicatives (Sections
4.6.2–4.6.4). This suggests that while both types of locality-based accounts
might be correct for some languages or dialects, they do not capture the
full range of crosslinguistic variation. In the remainder of this chapter, I
motivate the need for another strategy that languages can use to passivize
their direct objects (which can also lead to symmetric passives). It involves
case-driven movement of the indirect object, which freezes it for further
case-driven movements, thus allowing the direct object to undergo passive
movement, as shown in (111a). If the indirect object does not move first,
it will be able to undergo passive movement, as shown in (111b). If both
(111a) and (111b) are possible, the result is symmetric passive movement.
(111) a. b.
DOi
TP
T[EPP]
IOj
tj
ti
IOi
TP
T[EPP]
ti
DO
Since this movement strategy is linked to case, let me first introduce
(and evaluate) existing case-based accounts of the distinction between
symmetric and asymmetric passives. This is the focus of the next section.
4.7 Case and symmetric passives
4.7.1 Case absorption
On the assumption that passive morphology absorbs structural case features
(as argued by Baker, Johnson and Roberts 1989 and Jaeggli 1986, among
others), passive movement could be related to the inability of direct objects
to have their case valued. If we extend this idea to double object construc-
tions, the difference between symmetric and asymmetric passives could be
attributed to variation in case absorption (or more generally, case check-
ing) mechanims. Broadly speaking, this is the view taken by Larson (1988),
Legate (2001, 2002) McGinnis (1998) and Woolford (1993), among others.
4.7 Case and symmetric passives 145
One way to implement this view is to assume that there are two sources of
case in applicative constructions, the applicative head and the v head. If
both objects have structural case, the applicative head values the uninter-
pretable case feature of the direct object, whereas the v head values the unin-
terpretable case feature of the indirect object, as indicated by curved lines
in (112a–b). Note that this account does not distriminate between high and
low applicatives; in both types v undergoes Agree with the indirect object
and the applicative head undergoes Agree with the direct object.
(112) a. b.
vP
v ApplH
IO uC:Acc ApplH
ApplH VP
P
V DO uC:Acc
P
v VP
V ApplLP
uC:Acc ApplL
v
ApplL DOuC:Acc
IO
The opposite pattern (with v valuing uCase on DO and Appl valuing
uCase on IO) is excluded by locality conditions on Agree; IO is not in the
c-command domain of Appl and IO intervenes for Agree between v and
DO. There are thus two possibilities for case absorption in double object
constructions; passive morphology can absorb either the case feature of
the applicative head or the case feature of the v head. If v’s case feature
is absorbed, the indirect object passivizes. If the applicative head’s case
feature is absorbed, the direct object does. On this view, the crucial dif-
ference between languages with symmetric passives and those with asym-
metric passives is that in languages with asymmetric passives only the first
option is possible, i.e. only v’s case feature can be absorbed.40
A natural
question that arises here concerns the existence of languages (or the lack
thereof) with asymmetric passives in which only the case feature of the
applicative head can be absorbed. This would yield a language in which
both direct and indirect objects have structural case (valued by the applica-
tive head and the v head, respectively) but only direct objects can passivize.
I am not aware of the existence of such languages at this point. However,
we know that the ability to passivize only direct objects is quite common in
languages in which indirect objects are marked with inherent case (marked
as iC in the diagrams that follow), such as German, Spanish or Polish, as
shown by the following examples from Polish.
146 Symmetry in Move
(113) a. Maria dała Janowi kwiaty.
Maria.nom gave Jan.DAT flowers.ACC
‘Maria gave Jan flowers.’
b. Kwiatyi
zostały dane Janowi ti
.
flowers.NOM became given Jan.DAT
‘Flowers were given to Jan.’
c. * Jani
został dany ti
kwiaty.
Jan.NOM became given flowers.ACC
‘Jan was given flowers.’
If dative indirect objects enter the derivation with their case features
valued, the v head will value the uC feature of the DO, as shown in (114a).
If the ability of v to value case is absorbed by the passive morphology, the
DO will get its case valued by T, as shown in (114b).
(114) a. b.
TP
T vP
v ApplHP
IOiC:Dat ApplH
ApplH VP
V DOuC:Acc
TP
T vP
v VP
V ApplLP
IOiC:Dat ApplL
ApplL DOuC:Nom
As appealing at it may sound, such an explanation is not fully adequate,
for two principled reasons. First, it predicts that dative arguments should
not act as interveners for case-driven movements, and second, it relies on
the underlying assumption that objects marked with non-structural cases
should never be able to passivize. In the next two sections, I test these two
predictions and show that (some) direct objects bearing non-structural
case can passivize in Polish and that there is no correlation in grammatical-
ity between passivization of a direct object across a dative indirect object
and raising of a subject across a dative experiencer.
4.7.2 Lexical case and passive movement
Many verbs in Polish assign lexical case to their objects.Some representative
examples of such oblique objects are given below.41
4.7 Case and symmetric passives 147
(115) a. Ewa szuka mieszkania.
Ewa.nom seek apartment.GEN
‘Ewa is looking for a new apartment.’
b. Ewa ufa Piotrowi.
Ewa.nom trust Piotr.DAT
‘Ewa trusts Piotr.’
c. Ewa interesuje się składniom.
Ewa.nom is.interested refl syntax.INSTR
‘Ewa is interested in syntax.’
What is interesting is that some of such oblique objects can passivize, as
noted by Dziwirek (1994). (See also Swan 2002 and Citko 2009 for a discus-
sion of such passives in Polish, and Fowler 1996 for a discussion of similar
examples in Russian.)42
Examples (116) and (117) involve passivization of
genitive objects and (118) of an instrumental object.
(116) a. Janek pilnował dziecka.
John.nom watched child.GEN
‘John watched/minded the child.’
b. Dzieckoi
było pilnowane ti
przez Janka.
child.NOM was watched by John
‘The child was being watched by John.’ (Dziwirek 1994:83)
(117) a. Rząd zabronił demonstracji.
government banned demonstrations.GEN
‘The government banned demonstrations.’
b. Demonstracjei
zostały zabronione ti
przez rząd.
demonstrations.NOM became banned by government
‘The demonstrations were banned by the government.’
(118) a. Janek kierował zakładem.
John.nom manages factory.instr
‘John manages the factory.’
b. Ten zakładi
był kierowany ti
przez Janka.
this. NOM factory.NOM was managed by John
‘This factory was managed by John.’ (Dziwirek 1994:83–4)
Dziwirek also notes that dative objects (even in simple transitive clauses)
do not passivize (see, however, Zabrocki 1981 for some exceptions).
(119) a. Janek pomagał Ewie.
John.nom helped Eve.DAT
‘John helped Eve.’
b. * Ewai
była pomagana ti
przez Janka.
Eve.NOM was helped by John
‘Eve was helped by John.’
148 Symmetry in Move
(120) a. Janek powiedział Ewie o tym.
John.nom told Eve.DAT about it
‘John told Eve about it.’
b. * Ewai
była powiedziana ti
(o tym) przez Janka.
Eve.nom was told about it by John
‘Eve was told about it by John.’ (Dziwirek 1994:83–4)
The behavior of Polish oblique objects, in particular the fact that they can,
under some circumstances, passivize, is problematic for the accounts of
passives that rely on the idea that non-structural cases are not affected by
passive morphology. The data discussed in this section suggest that it is not
case but some other property of dative objects (direct and indirect alike)
that makes them impervious to passive movement in Polish. Before exam-
ining the nature of this property in more detail, I turn to another predic-
tion stemming from the idea that what allows direct objects in languages
like Polish or German to passivize is the fact that dative indirect objects
are case-marked in situ. Such an account makes predictions that extend
beyond passive movement in double object constructions. In particular, it
predicts that dative arguments in general should not block A-movement
across them. The next section tests this prediction in constructions
involving raising across dative experiencers.43
4.7.3 Dative intervention effects
As often noted in the literature on double objects or dative intervention
effects, subject-to-subject raising across a dative experiencer and passivi-
zation of a direct object across a dative indirect object involve the same
general configuration; both target the specifier of TP and both cross an
intervening dative argument.
(121) a. DPi
T DPDAT ti
subject raising
b. DPi
T DPDAT ti
passivization of direct object
A more specific representation of raising to subject is given in (122). It
assumes that dative experiencers are introduced by applicative heads, and
that they c-command (traces of) raised subjects.
4.7 Case and symmetric passives 149
(122) TP
DPi T
T vP
v ApplHP
DPDAT ApplH
ApplH VP
V TP
ti T
T vP
If dative case being inherent is what makes movement across dative indi-
rect objects possible in double object constructions, we would expect
raising across dative experiencer subjects to be possible as well. And con-
versely, if movement across a dative indirect object is impossible, we would
expect movement across a dative experiencer to be impossible as well. We
saw above data from three languages in which passivization across a dative
direct object is possible; the prediction is that in these languages (if expe-
riencers are also dative), raising across experiencers should also be possi-
ble. In general, we expect the same intervention effects (or the lack thereof)
in both double object constructions and subject-to-subject raising; either
movement in both cases is possible (as schematized in (123a)) or movement
in both cases is impossible (as schematized in (123b)). We do not expect the
patterns in (123c) and (123d), in which movement is possible in one case
but not in the other:
(123) a. [TP
DPi
T … DPexp
[TP
ti
… ] ] subject raising
[TP
DPi
T … [ApplP
DPind-obj
… ti
] ] passivization of direct object
b. * [TP
DPi
T … DPexp
[TP
ti
… ] ] subject raising
* [TP
DPi
T … [ApplP
DPind-obj
… ti
] ] passivization of direct object
c. [TP
DPi
T … DPexp
[TP
ti
… ] ] subject raising
* [TP
DPi
T … [ApplP
DPind-obj
… ti
] ] passivization of direct object
d. * [TP
DPi
T … DPexp
[TP
ti
… ] ] subject raising
[TP
DPi
T … [ApplP
DPind-obj
… ti
] ] passivization of direct object
We saw above that passive movement across dative indirect objects is possi-
ble in languages like Polish or Spanish. In Polish, subject-to-subject raising
150 Symmetry in Move
across an intervening experiencer is also possible. The status of the dative
experiencer does not make a difference; in (124a) it is a pronoun, in (124b)
a full DP, and in (124c) a wh-trace.
(124) a. Jani
wydaje mi się [ ti
(być) najlepszym kandydatem]. Polish
Jan seems me self be best candidate
‘Jan seems to me to be the best candidate.’
b. Jani
wydaje się Marii [ti
(być) najlepszym kandydatem].
Jan seems self Maria.dat be best candidate
‘Jan seems to Maria to be the best candidate.’
c. Komuj
Jani
wydaje się tj
[ti
być najlepszym kandydatem?]
who.dat Jan.nom seems self be best candidate
‘To whom does Jan seem to be the best candidate?’
In Spanish, however, raising across the experiencer is blocked in all three
cases, as pointed out by Torrego (1996).
(125) a. * Este taxistai
me parece [ti
estar cansado]. Spanish
this taxi.driver.nom me.dat seems be tired
‘It seems to me that this taxi driver is tired.’ (Torrego 1996:106)
b. * Este taxistai
parece a Maria [ti
estar cansado].
this taxi.driver.nom seems to Maria be tired
‘It seems to Maria that this taxi driver is tired.’
c. *A Mariaj
, este taxistai
tj
parece [ti
estar cansado].
to Maria this taxi.driver.nom seems be tired
‘To Maria, this taxi driver seems to be tired.’ (Kim 2005:650)
Icelandic is another language that allows us to test this correlation. Icelandic
can passivize direct objects across dative indirect objects, and marks its
experiencers with dative case. However, raising across experiencers is not
possible (unless the wh-experiencer is a wh-trace).44
(126) a. * Hestarnir virðast mér [ti
vera seinir]. Icelandic
the.horses.nom seem me.dat be slow
‘It seems to me that the horses are slow.’
b. Hverjumi
hafa hsestarnirj
virst ti
[ tj
vera seinir]?
who.dat have the.horses.nom seemed be slow
‘To whom has it seemed that the horses are slow?’
(Holmberg and Hróarsdóttir 2003:998)
The table in (127) summarizes the raising patterns discussed in this section.
It shows that there is no correlation between subject-to-subject raising
across a dative experiencer and passive movement of a direct object across
a dative indirect object.
4.7 Case and symmetric passives 151
(127) Movement across dative arguments: a summary
Spanish Polish Icelandic
Raising across dative indirect objects ✓ ✓ ✓
Raising across dative experiencers * ✓ * (unless Exp is wh-trace)
4.7.4 Lack of multiple datives
We saw in Section 4.7.2 above that there is something unique about Polish
datives which prevents them from undergoing passive movement. It cannot
be the fact that dative case is non-structural, as other non-structural cases
do sometimes passivize. Another unique fact about Polish datives, also
noted by Dziwirek (1994), is their incompatibility with other datives, more
specifically, the fact that Polish allows only one dative-marked nominal per
clause. Before presenting the data to illustrate this restriction, let me intro-
duce in (128a–f) other constructions involving dative case in Polish.45
(128a)
involves a dative experiencer subject of a psych verb, (128b) a dative subject
of a modal verb, (128c) a dative possessor, (128d) an ethical dative, (128e)
an estimative dative, and (128f) an involuntary state construction. The first
two terms are fairly self-explanatory; many psychological and modal verbs
require dative subjects. A possessor raising construction is a construction
in which the possessor is marked with dative case. An ethical dative con-
struction is a construction in which the dative argument is directly affected
by the action. In an estimative dative construction, the dative is the argu-
ment whose assessment of the event we are interested in. It typically occurs
with a degree modifier. And in an involuntary state construction, the focus
is more on the dative subject undergoing a certain state than being directly
involved in a certain action. According to Dziwirek (1994:57), “the use of
a dative-subject clause attributes a somewhat non-volitional quality to the
activity/state, suggesting that it takes place independently, or in spite of the
(human) subject involved.”
(128) a. Basi podobają się te kwiaty. psych verb
Basia.DAT like refl these flowers.nom
‘Basia likes these flowers.’
b. Potrzeba nam więcej kwiatów. modal verb
need we.DAT more flowers.gen
‘We need more flowers.’
c. Jan złamał Piotrowi rękę. possessor raising
Jan.nom broke Piotr.DAT arm.acc
‘Jan broke Piotr’s arm.’
152 Symmetry in Move
d. Dziecko Basi zasnęło. ethical dative
child.nom Basia.DAT fell.asleep
‘The child fell asleep on Basia.’
e. Jan jechał Basi za szybko. estimative dative
Jan.nom drove Basia.DAT too fast
‘Jan drove too fast for Basia’s liking.’
f. Basi łatwo się pisze wiersze. involuntary state construction
Basia.DAT easily refl write poems.acc
‘Writing poems comes easily to Basia.’
Now we can illustrate the ban against multiple datives alluded to above.
Possessors in Polish can be either genitive or dative, as shown in (129a–b).
Dative possessors are understood to be directly affected by the action. No
such implication is present with genitive possessors, which therefore tend
to be more common.46
(129) a. Oczy Ewy zaszły łzami.
eyes.nom Eve.GEN clouded tears.INSTR
‘Eve’s eyes filled with tears.’
b. Oczy zaszły Ewie łzami.
eyes.nom clouded Eve.DAT tears.INSTR
‘Eve’s eyes filled with tears.’ (Dziwirek 1994:87)
Interestingly, dative possessors become impossible if there is another dative
within the same clause. The examples in (130a) and (131a) are ungrammat-
ical because they contain both a dative possessor and a dative experiencer.
If the possessors are genitive instead, as in (130b) and (131b), the examples
become grammatical:
(130) a. * Oczy Ewie podobają się Jankowi.
eyes.nom Eve.DAT please refl John.DAT
‘John likes Eve’s eyes.’
b. Oczy Ewy podobają się Jankowi.
eyes.nom Eve.GEN please refl John.DAT
‘John likes Eve’s eyes.’
(131) a. * Jan kupił Magdzie włosy Ewie
John.nom bought Mary.DAT hair.acc Eve.DAT
na perukę.
for wig
‘John bought Mary Eve’s hair for a wig.’
b. Jan kupił Magdzie włosy Ewy
John.nom bought Mary.DAT hair.acc Eve.GEN
na perukę.
for wig
‘John bought Mary Eve’s hair for a wig.’ (Dziwirek 1994:88)
4.7 Case and symmetric passives 153
Involuntary state constructions present a potential problem for the gen-
eralization that multiple datives are impossible in Polish. Example (132) is
grammatical in spite of the fact that it contains two datives.47
(132) Basi łatwo daje się Piotrowi prezenty.
Basia.DAT easily give refl Piotr.DAT packages
‘It is easy for Basia to give presents to Piotr.’
The exceptional status of such examples, however, is only apparent, and
can be attributed to the fact that involuntary state constructions are
bi-clausal, as shown by Marušič and Žaucer (2006), for example. They
argue, based on Slovenian data, that the matrix clause in an involuntary
state construction contains a covert psych predicate and that the embed-
ded clause is deficient in that it lacks a TP and CP layer, as shown in
(133).48
(133) [CP
[ TP
[AspP
[vP
DPDAT
[ VP
Ø [R-ModP
[AspP
[vP
[VP
] ] ] ] ] ] ] ] ]
The details of their analysis are not directly relevant for our purposes;
suffice it to note that there is an alternative explanation for why examples
like (132) are grammatical; the two datives are not in the same clause.
Before turning to the analysis of the ban against two datives in a single
clause in Polish, let me briefly mention (and discount) two possible
explanations. First, it cannot be due to a more general ban against two
DPs marked with the same case in a clause; the grammatical example in
(134a) contains two adjacent genitive arguments and the one in (134b) two
instrumental DPs (one argument and one adjunct).49
(134) a. Maria nie nauczyła Jana matematyki.
Maria.nom not taught Jan.GEN math.GEN
‘Maria didn’t teach Jan math.’
b. Maria kierowała tym zakładem latami.
Maria.nom directed this.INSTR factory.INSTR years.INSTR
‘Maria directed this factory for years.’
Second, the ban against double datives cannot be attributed to a more
general ban against recursion of applicative structures. Such recursion is
in principle possible; a low applicative phrase can be embedded under a
high applicative phrase (with the main verb intervening between the two),
as shown in (135a). Likewise, a high applicative phrase can be embedded
under another high applicative phrase, as shown in (135b).50
154 Symmetry in Move
(135) a. b.
ApplHP
IO ApplH
ApplH VP
V ApplLP
IO Appl
ApplL DO
ApplHP
IO ApplH
ApplH ApplHP
IO ApplH
ApplH VP
V DO
The analysis I develop in the next section suggests that both restrictions
in Polish (i.e. the lack of dative passives and the ban on multiple datives)
follow from a single mechanism of dative case licensing.
4.7.5 Freezing and symmetric passives
The analysis I develop in this section to account for the behavior of
Polish datives relies on a number of independently motivated assump-
tions.51
First, following Woolford (2006) most recently, I take dative case to
be quirky case.52
Second, I take quirky case to be a combination of lexical
and structural case. The lexical component of quirky case can be thought
of as the presence of an interpretable case feature (represented as iC feature
in the diagrams that follow), and its structural component can be thought
of as the presence of the uninterpretable case feature (represented as uC
feature).
(136) a. Quirky case = lexical case + structural case
b. Quirky case = iC feature + uC feature
The standard minimalist assumption is that interpretable case features
enter the derivation valued. I depart from this assumption slightly; nothing
crucial, however, hinges on this departure. Even though interpretable case
features might not need to checked (or valued) in the same way uninter-
pretable case features do, they do need to be licensed in specific positions
by specific syntactic elements. For example, instrumental- or genitive-
marked objects are only possible as complements of predicates that assign
instrumental or genitive case. One way to capture this fact but still main-
tain the distinction between interpretable and uninterpretable features is
to assume that both interpretable and uninterpretable features need to be
valued but that they get valued in different ways. More specifically, inter-
pretable case features get valued at first Merge, but uninterpretable case
features get valued later, via Agree with a higher Probe, as argued by Bailyn
4.7 Case and symmetric passives 155
and Citko (1999) for instrumental versus so-called agreeing case on non-
verbal predicates.
On this view, dative indirect objects enter the derivation with both an iC
feature and an uC feature. The iC feature is valued on Merge with an appli-
cative head, either a low or a high one, as shown in (137a–b) respectively.
(137) a. b.
VP
V ApplLP
IO ApplL
[iC:Dat, uC:]
ApplL DOuC:
ApplHP
IO ApplH
[ iC:Dat, uC:]
ApplH VP
V DOuC
The crucial innovation lies in the valuing of the uC feature of the indirect
object. I propose that it is valued by Agree with a new functional projec-
tion, which I dub a light applicative head (applP), generated above ApplP.
I furthermore propose that this appl head has an EPP feature, which forces
movement of the dative argument to its specifier.53
(138) a. b.
applP
IOi appl
[ iC:Dat, uC:Dat]
appl ApplLP
[EPP]
ti ApplL
ApplL DOuC:
applP
IOi appl
[iC:Dat, uC:Dat]
appl ApplHP
[EPP]
ti ApplH
ApplH VP
V DOuC:
This movement not only explains why dative objects (direct and indirect
alike) cannot passivize but also captures the ban on multiple datives in
Polish. To see how, let us look at some concrete examples, starting with
low applicatives. The indirect object in (139) enters the derivation with
an iC feature and an uC feature. Its iC feature gets valued on Merge (or
enters the derivation valued, depending on one’s theoretical assumptions
about the status and licensing of interpretable features). Its uC feature gets
valued via Agree with a higher appl head. Since the appl head also has an
EPP feature, the indirect object moves to its specifier. The subject moves
to [Spec,TP] and the verb moves to v. The direct object has its uC feature
valued via Agree with v.
156 Symmetry in Move
(139) a. Jan wysłał Piotrowi książkę.
John.nom sent Peter.dat book.acc
‘John sent Peter a book.’
b. TP
Jani T
[uC:Nom]
T vP
[EPP]
ti v
sentk applP
Piotr appl
[iC:Dat, uC:Dat]
appl[EPP] VP
tk
V ApplLP
tk
ti ApplL
ApplL book
[uC:Acc]
i
High applicatives, such as the one given in (140a), involve an analogous
derivation, schematized in (140b). The only difference is that the dative
indirect object starts out as a specifier of a high applicative head.
(140) a. Jan pobiegnie wam na zawodach.
Jan.nom run.perf.3sg you.dat at competition
‘Jan will run for you at the competition.’
b. TP
Jani T
[uC:Nom]
T vP
[EPP]
ti v
v applP
runk
youi appl
[iC:Dat, uC:Dat]
appl[EPP] ApplHP
tk
ti ApplH
ApplH VP
tk
tk at a competition
4.7 Case and symmetric passives 157
Now we can turn to passive movement in both high and low applica-
tives. What allows the direct object to passivize in (141) is the fact that the
indirect object has already had its uC feature valued (via movement to the
specifier of the light applicative head). Thus it no longer intervenes for the
purposes of A-movement. If the indirect object were to passivize instead,
as shown in (142b), movement of the indirect object from the specifier of
applP to the specifier of TP would violate economy; the indirect object
would be moving from one case position to another one. Furthermore, the
direct object would be left with its uC feature unvalued.
(141) a. Książkai
została wysłana Piotrowi ti
.
book.nom became sent Piotr.dat
‘The book was sent to Piotr.’
b.
(142) a. * Piotri
został wysłany ti
książkę.
Piotr.nom became sent book. acc
‘The book was sent to Piotr.’
TP
booki T
[uC:Nom]
T[EPP] vP
became
v applP
sentk
Piotri appl
[iC:Dat, uC:Dat]
appl[EPP] VP
tk
V ApplLP
tk
ti ApplL
ApplL ti
158 Symmetry in Move
b. TP
T
T[EPP] vP
became
v VP
sentk applP
Piotri appl
[iC:Dat, uC:Dat]
appl[EPP] VP
tk
V ApplLP
tk
ti ApplL
ApplL book
uC:
We also saw above that the ban against passivization of indirect objects in
Polish is not absolute. If the indirect object is accusative (not dative), the
result is the opposite passivization pattern; the indirect object can passiv-
ize but the direct object cannot. This is what happens with the verb uczyć
‘to teach’, whose indirect object is accusative and direct object genitive.
(143) a. Jan nauczył Piotra składni.
Jan.nom taught Piotr.ACC syntax.GEN
‘Jan taught Piotr syntax.’
b. Piotri został nauczony ti składni.
Piotr.nom became taught syntax.gen
‘Piotr was taught syntax.’
c. * Składniai została nauczona Piotra ti.
syntax.nom became taught Piotr.acc
‘Syntax was taught to Piotr.’
In such cases, v values the uC feature of the IO as accusative, and the Appl
head values the uC feature of the DO as genitive, as shown in (144a).
Since passive morphology absorbs v’s ability to value case, T is the closest
element that can value case of the IO, as shown in (144b). As a result, the
IO is going to undergo passive movement.
4.7 Case and symmetric passives 159
(144) a. TP
Jani T
[uC:Nom]
T vP
[EPP]
ti v
v VP
V ApplLP
taught
Piotr ApplL
[uC:Acc]
ApplL syntax
[uC:Gen]
b. TP
T
T[EPP] vP
became
v VP
V ApplLP
taught
Piotr ApplL
[uC:Nom]
ApplL syntax
[uC:Gen]
On this account, the fact that dative indirect objects cannot passivize and
the fact that there can only be one dative argument per clause is tied to
movement of dative arguments to the specifier of applP. In other words,
the fact that dative indirect objects do not passivize is only indirectly linked
to non-structural case. Such dative objects have already moved for case-
related reasons; thus they are frozen in place for further case-related move-
ments. In other words, (145a) is ungrammatical for the same reasons (145b)
and (145c) are. In (145b) the nominative subject John can have its case fea-
tures valued inside the embedded clause, thus it does not need to move to
the matrix subject position, and, likewise, in (145c) the wh-phrase what can
have its wh-feature satisfied in the embedded clause, thus there is no reason
for it to move to the matrix [Spec, CP].
160 Symmetry in Move
(145) a. * Jani
został dany ti
kwiaty przez Ewę.
Jan.nom became given flowers.acc by Ewa
‘Jan was given flowers by Ewa.’
b. * Jani
is likely that ti
gave Ewa flowers.
c. * Whati
does Piotr wonder ti
Jan gave Ewa ti
?
The fact that Polish does not allow more than a single dative marked
argument per clause is also related to the movement of datives to the speci-
fier of applP. In particular, it follows from the assumption that the light
applicative head has only one specifier position (and that there is only one
applP projection per clause). The ungrammatical example in (146a) below
contains two dative arguments. Since there is only one appl head, it can
only value case features of one of them. This is going to be the one that
raises to its specifier. If the benefactive argument raises, the possessor will
be left with an unvalued case feature. If, instead, the possessor raises, the
benefactive argument will be left with an unvalued case feature.54
(146) a. * Jan kupił Magdzie włosy Ewie.
John.nom bought Mary.DAT hair.acc Eve.DAT
na perukę.
for wig
‘John bought Mary Eve’s hair for a wig.’ (Dziwirek 1994:88)
b. TP
T vP
John v
[uC:Nom]
v applP
appl
appl ApplHP
[EPP]
Mary ApplH
[iC:Dat,uC:]
ApplH VP
V ApplLP
Eve ApplL
[iC:Dat, uC:]
ApplL hair
[uCase:Acc]
4.8 Conclusion 161
Thus the idea that there is a single light applicative phrase accounts for two
otherwise rather peculiar properties of Polish datives: the fact that dative
indirect objects cannot passivize and the fact that there can only be one
dative argument per clause.
4.8 Conclusion
My main goal in this chapter was to provide evidence for the existence
of symmetric movement in the grammar. I focused on passive movement
in double object constructions, as it is a perfect example of a configura-
tion in which there is a single landing site (the subject position) and two
elements vying for this site (the two objects standing in an asymmetric
c-command configuration). Movement is symmetric if either the direct
or the indirect object can passivize with a grammatical result. On the
assumption that the indirect object is merged above the direct object, we
would expect only the indirect object, which is closer to T, to be able to
passivize. This is what happens in some languages; however, there are
others in which either both objects can passivize or only the lower of the
two, the direct object, can. Since passivization of the higher object is the
expected pattern, the bulk of the discussion in this chapter was devoted
to the strategies languages use to allow the direct object, the lower of the
two, to passivize. Combining the insights of previous accounts, I argued
that there are two ways it can happen, leading to two types of symmetric
movement. I referred to them as locality-based and case-based strategies.
In a locality-based strategy, the direct object moves over the indirect one
(before moving to the subject position). This is possible in languages in
which both objects are marked with structural case and it does not cor-
relate with the distinction between high and low applicatives. If the direct
object does not move first, the indirect object will passivize. The result is
symmetric movement.
(147) a. b.
TP
DOi
T[EPP]
ti
IO
ti
TP
T[EPP]
IOi
ti
DO
162 Symmetry in Move
However, I also argued in this chapter for the existence of a case-based
strategy to passivize direct objects. It also involves movement; however, in
this strategy movement involves the indirect object, which moves for case
reasons to a non-subject position, as shown in (148a). This movement
freezes the indirect object for further case-related movements and makes
passivization of the direct object the only option. If the indirect object
does not undergo this movement first, it will be able to passivize. Again, if
both options are allowed, the result is symmetric movement.
(148) a. b.
TP
DOi
T[EPP]
IOj
tj
ti
TP
IOi
T[EPP]
ti
DO
163
5 Symmetric labels
5.1 Introduction
In this chapter, I provide evidence for the existence of symmetric labels in
the grammar. This is a departure from the standard minimalist view, which
takes labels to be asymmetric. When two objects (such as α and β) merge,
only one of them (either α or β) projects as the label of the new object, as
shown in (1a–b).1
(1) a. Merge α and β, project α b. Merge α and β, project β
α
α β
β
α β
{α, β}
α β
α β
Logically speaking, there are two ways labels can be symmetric, illustrated
in (2a) and (2b) respectively. In (2a), both α and β project, whereas in (2b)
neither of them does.2
Crucially, in both cases α and β contribute equally
to the identity of the label.
(2) a. Merge α and β, project both b. Merge α and β, project neither
My main focus in this chapter is on symmetric labels of the kind given
in (2a).3
However, in order to argue for the existence of such labels, we first
need to establish the existence of labels of any sort in the grammar. This is
not a trivial pursuit, especially in light of recent claims to the contrary (see
Collins 2002, Seely 2006, among others, for arguments to rid the grammar
of labels altogether). I therefore devote the bulk of the discussion in the
first part of this chapter to justifying the existence of labels. In the second
part, I turn to the evidence for symmetric labels. The claim I defend is that
labels can be symmetric, not that they have to be (or always are) symmetric.
164 Symmetric labels
This claim is similar in spirit to the claim about Merge in Chapter 3 (where
I argued that Merge can also sometimes create symmetric structures) and
the claim about Move in Chapter 4 (where I argued that Move can also
sometimes treat two elements in a symmetric fashion).
This chapter is structured as follows. In Section 5.2, I present (and
counter) the proposals that eliminate labels from the grammar, focusing
on Collins (2002), who gives us a detailed account of how a grammar
without labels might work. As I review his proposal, I show that even
though we can accomplish a lot without labels, there are some operations
that crucially rely on their existence, both in Narrow Syntax and at the
interfaces. In Section 5.3, I introduce symmetric labels, focusing on what
theoretical conditions they have to meet. In Sections 5.4–5.7, I turn to the
empirical support and present three case studies in symmetric Labeling:
serial verbs (following Baker and Stewart 1999), small clauses (following
Moro 2000, 2007 and Pereltsvaig 2008), and comparative correlatives (fol-
lowing Citko 2008b). I argue that all three involve symmetrically labeled
constituents, consisting of two phrases of the same type (i.e. VPs, vPs,
DPs or CPs).
5.2 Arguments for (and against) eliminating labels
Collins’s (2002) conceptual arguments for eliminating labels come from the
fact that labels are vestiges of representations, and are thus undesirable in
a highly derivational minimalist system. More concretely, he argues that
labels violate the Inclusiveness Condition, given in (3) below.
(3) Inclusiveness Condition (Chomsky 1995:228)
No new objects are added in the course of the computation apart from
rearrangements of lexical properties (in particular, no indices, bar levels
in the sense of X-bar theory).
This is a common objection to labels, found in different forms in the lit-
erature. However, this objection is only valid if a label is a new object,
not present in the Numeration. The objection disappears in Bare Phrase
Structure Theory, in which a label is simply one of the merged elements, or
a set (or a subset) of its features. Both set-theoretical and tree-theoretical
representations, given in (4a–b) below, reflect this “bare” view of labels.
Labeling thus does not introduce any new objects into the derivation and is
not a problem for the Inclusiveness Condition.
5.2 Arguments for (and against) eliminating labels 165
(4) a. {α, {α, β}}
b.
A slightly different conceptual argument in favor of (at least) partial
elimination of labels comes from the insights of Distributed Morphology,
in which the lexicon is assumed to contain label-less roots such as √con-
struct, √destroy, rather than categorically labeled nouns, verbs or adjectives
(as argued by Halle and Marantz 1993, 1994, Harley and Noyer 2003 and
Marantz 1997, among others). The same root will end up as a noun if it
merges with a determiner and a verb if it merges with a v or an Aspect
head. Marantz (2001) takes it a step further, proposing that the heads that
“turn” label-less roots into lexical categories (nouns, verbs, adjectives) are
all phase heads.4
This view of label-less roots is also prominent in Borer
(2005).
Collins does not give many empirical reasons for eliminating labels; his
focus is on showing how a grammar without labels would work. Thus, in
order to understand his proposal, we need to understand what labels do
(syntactically speaking). If they are not that useful to begin with, getting
rid of them is not going to matter that much (and will certainly be desirable
from a minimalist perspective). If, however, labels accomplish major syn-
tactic tasks, dispensing with them will have dire consequences.
We have to be somewhat cautious, however, in evaluating the need for
labels (or the lack thereof) in the grammar. For example, we often appeal
to labels in discussions of constituency tests. However, many of these tests
do not distinguish between constituents with different labels (DPs versus
VPs), but between maximal and non-maximal projections. For example, no
reference to labels is necessary in order to account for the contrast between
grammatical topicalizations of DPs and PPs in (5a–b) and the ungram-
matical topicalizations of D-bars and P-bars in (6a–b).5
(5) a. his best friendi
, I met ti
yesterday. DP topicalization
b. Best friendi
, John ran ti
. PP topicalization
(6) a. * Best friendi
, I met his ti
. D′ topicalization
b. * Into the storei
, John ran right ti
. P′ topicalization
However, the existence of syntactic processes that apply to, or are triggered
by, phrases of specific types should make us somewhat cautious of pro-
posals that eliminate labels. To give just a couple of concrete examples,
α
α β
166 Symmetric labels
only PPs allow their heads to be stranded via wh-movement, as shown in
(7), and only &Ps require their specifiers and complements to be of the
same category, as shown by the contrast in grammaticality between (8a)
and (8b).
(7) Which articlei
did you think [PP
about ti
]?
(8) a. [&P
[DP
John] [&′
and [DP
his friend] ] ]
b. * [&P
[DP
John] [&′
and [AdvP
friendly] ] ]
Furthermore, processes like selection or movement crucially rely on (or
make reference to) category labels. If the result of merging the determiner
the and the noun book does not have a label, it is unclear how the verb
read merging with the DP the book can have its selectional requirements
satisfied. To address this issue, Collins restates selectional restrictions as
“statements about derivational syntactic relations and economy condi-
tions” (Collins 2002:44). The syntactic relations he appeals to are listed in
(9a–d).
(9) a. Theta (X, Y) X assigns a theta role toY
b. EPP (X, Y) Y satisfies the EPP feature of X
c. Agree (X, Y) X matches Y, and Y values X
d. Subcat (X, Y) X subcategorizes for Y
All the Xs and Ys in (9a–d) are lexical categories, not phrasal ones.
Crucially, Collins does not argue for eliminating lexical labels (which could
be thought of as features of lexical elements, represented by subscripts in
(10a–b)). He does argue, however, that such lexical labels (or features) do
not project up the tree. In other words, the result of merging the and book
is (10a) not (10b).
(10) a. b.
In a system without labels, violations of selection are handled in two
different ways, depending on the kind of violation. There are two kinds
to consider; the selected element could be of a wrong type, or it could be
absent altogether. The contrast between (11a) and (11b) illustrates the first
type of violation.
(11) a. destroy cities
b. * destroy to cities
theD bookN
theD
theD bookN
5.2 Arguments for (and against) eliminating labels 167
In a system with labels, the ungrammaticality of (11b) is due to the fact
that destroy subcategorizes for a DP not a PP. To account for its ungram-
maticality in a system without labels, Collins extends the kind of minimal-
ity familiar from the research on movement and proposes the following
condition on selection:
(12) If X selects Y (where Y is a lexical category),
then * X Z Y
where Z intervenes between X and Y, and Z is any lexical category
(+/− V, +/− N). (Collins 2002:52)
If intervention reduces to c-command, (11b) above is ungrammatical
because to intervenes between destroy and cities. However, the kind of min-
imality involved here is very different from the kind involved in movement,
which is typically attributed to Relativized Minimality (or its conceptual
successors). Relativized Minimality blocks relationships between elements
of the same type, whereas the condition on selection in (12) allows any
lexical item to act as an intervener.6
The second type of violation is illustrated in (13), which contains no
element to meet the verb’s selectional requirements. To account for its
ungrammaticality, Collins introduces the concept of a derivational locus.
(13) * John devoured.
Simply put, when two elements merge, a feature of one of them has to
be satisfied. Collins refers to this feature as a probe (or selector), and the
element bearing it as the locus of the derivation. Furthermore, he proposes
the Locus Principle, given in (14) below, according to which no new ele-
ments can be introduced before the current selectors are satisfied.
(14) Locus Principle (Collins 2002:46)
Let X be a lexical item that has one or more probe/selectors. Suppose X
is chosen from the lexical array and introduced into the derivation. Then
the probe/selectors of X must be satisfied before any new unsaturated
lexical items are chosen from the lexical array. Let us call X the locus of
the derivation.
Given the Locus Principle, the ungrammaticality of (13) above is due to
the fact that a new unsaturated element (little v) is introduced into the
derivation before the subcategorization feature of devour is satisfied. This
results in the presence of two derivational loci, in violation of the Locus
Principle.7
168 Symmetric labels
Another aspect of syntax where labels play a role concerns movement.
There are two reasons why labels are useful here. First, they help deter-
mine how much needs to move. Second, they help determine what ele-
ments count as interveners for what kinds of movement. Let me examine
these two issues in turn. In a wh-question involving a complex wh-phrase,
such as the one given in (15a) below, the entire DP headed by the wh-
determiner which needs to move, not just the lexical item bearing this
wh-feature. In a system with labels, this can be captured quite straight-
forwardly by assuming that the wh-feature of the wh-determiner perco-
lates up to the phrasal level or that the wh-determiner pied-pipes the entire
phrase, as shown in (15b).8
With no labels, (15b) becomes (15c) and it is
thus not quite clear what forces the entire DP to move (as opposed to just
the wh-word which).
(15) a. Which booki
are you reading ti
?
b. CP
C’
C[Q,uwh] …
DP[wh]
which[wh] book
C[Q,uwh] …
which[wh] book
c.
Collins recognizes this issue and presents examples in which feature per-
colation does not work. In (16a) below, whose DP which man’s daughter
has the structure in (16b), the wh-determiner does not head the DP which
man’s daughter, which is the DP undergoing wh-movement. On standard
assumptions about feature percolation, only the specifier of this DP (i.e.
which man) is marked as interrogative. However, if the specifier which man
agrees with the D head (as is typically assumed), the entire DP which man’s
daughter becomes interrogative in the relevant sense.
5.2 Arguments for (and against) eliminating labels 169
A related issue for a grammar without labels concerns locality restric-
tions on movement. In the ungrammatical example in (17) below, why
cannot move to the specifier of the matrix C because of the intervening
wh-phrase which man’s daughter. With no labels, it is not clear how to
capture such intervention effects, since the wh-determiner which in its pre-
movement position does not c-command the adjunct why (the entire DP
which man’s daughter, on the other hand, does).
(17) * Whyi do you wonder which man’s daughter stole the money ti?
Collins argues that the ungrammaticality of (17) is linked to the fact that
the embedded interrogative complementizer intervenes between the matrix
interrogative complementizer and the adjunct why, as shown in (18). Such
a formulation of the Minimal Link Condition does not require reference to
phrasal labels.
(18) [ C[+wh] you wonder [ [which man’s daughter] C[+wh] [stole the money why ] ] ]
(Collins 2002:57)
The upshot of the discussion above is that even though some work tra-
ditionally attributed to labels can be relegated to other mechanisms in the
grammar, there are aspects of selection and movement that remain prob-
lematic in a system with no labels. In what follows, I examine two more
phenomena that require the presence of category labels. One involves oper-
ations on labels, and the other one the differences between arguments and
adjuncts that can be reduced to different types of labels.
If there are operations that make reference to category labels (which
cannot be restated as operations on lexical items), we have a solid argu-
ment in favor of the existence of labels. One argument that such opera-
tions exist comes from the work of Hornstein and Uriagereka (2002) on
reprojection. Descriptively speaking, reprojection is a mechanism that
allows a category to change its label in the course of the derivation. What
(16) a. [Which man’s daughter]i
did you see ti
?
b. DP
DP[wh] D
D[wh] NP D NP
which man ‘s daughter
170 Symmetric labels
this means is that when α and β merge and α projects, the result can later
reproject as β. In X-bar theoretical terms, reprojection can be represented
as follows: 9
(19) a. b. XPi
Xi YP
Y ti
y
xi y
y ti
x
xi y
y ti
QP
Qi IP
Q NP I VP
ti V
love children
most people
(Hornstein and Uriagereka 2002:107)
In more current, bare phrase structure theoretical terms, reprojection is
represented as in (20a–b). When x (internally) merges with y, y (the Probe)
becomes the label. Later, however, x (the Goal) can reproject, labeling the
entire structure as x.
(20) a. b.
Needless to say, if reprojection exists, labels have to exist as well. Hornstein
and Uriagereka’s (2002) main empirical argument in favor of reprojection
comes from the properties of binary quantifiers such as most. Reprojection
provides a very intuitive account of the fact that the restriction and scope
of such quantifiers behave like its two arguments (which parallels the
subject and the object being two arguments of the verb).10
Example (21)
provides a concrete illustration. Before reprojection, its structure is (22a).
After reprojection, the restriction and the scope of the quantifier most lit-
erally become its two arguments; the NP people is the complement of most
and the IP love children is its (rightward) specifier, as shown in (22b).
(21) Most people love children.
(22) a. b
→ REPROJECTION →
→ REPROJECTION →
→ REPROJECTION →
(Hornstein and Uriagereka 2002:109)
YP
XPi
Y
Y ti
IP
QPi I
Q NP I VP
most people ti V
love children
5.2 Arguments for (and against) eliminating labels 171
Strictly speaking, Hornstein and Uriagereka do not conceive of reprojec-
tion as a new (or a non-standard) syntactic operation. Rather, they assume
that at different stages in the derivation, different elements can count as
labels. This, however, does not affect the main point of this section; either
way of thinking of reprojection requires reference to (and thus the exist-
ence of) labels, which is all I set out to establish here.11
A slightly different argument for the existence of labels comes from cases
of Merge in which either of the two merged elements can project with a
grammatical result. A case in point comes from Rooryck’s (2000) analysis
of qui/que alternation in French. What is relevant for our purposes is not
the factors that determine when qui is used and when que is used, but the
fact that both qui and que can function either as interrogative pronouns or
as complementizers. Example (23a) illustrates the use of qui as an inter-
rogative pronoun, and (23b) its use as a complementizer; (24a–b) do the
same for que.
(23) a. Quii
ti
est arrivé?
who is arrived
‘Who arrived?’
b. Le paqueti
qui ti
est venu.
the package that is arrived
‘the package that came’
(24) a. Qu’ as-tu vu?
what have-you seen
‘What did you see?’
b. Le paqueti
que j’ ai vu ti
.
the package that I have seen
‘the package that I have seen’ (Rooryck 2000)
Rooryck’s (2000) account of this alternation relies crucially on the exist-
ence of labels. First, he proposes that morphologically qui is a combina-
tion of the complementizer que and the subject pronoun clitic il. What this
means is that both the complementizer qui and the wh-pronoun qui involve
Merge of the complementizer qu(e) and the subject clitic il. The difference
between them lies in which of the two (the complementizer or the clitic)
projects. If C projects, the result is a complementizer, and if D projects, the
result is a wh-pronoun. Such treatment of the complementizer qui departs
from many standard analyses, which treat qui as an agreeing complemen-
tizer (see Rizzi 1990, for example).12
172 Symmetric labels
(25) a. Merge C and D, project C b. Merge C and D, project D
C
C D
qu– (l)i
D
C D
qu– (l)i
On this account, the difference between qui and que reduces to the nature
of the clitic. Que is also a result of Merge of a C and a D head, but this
time the D head is the accusative clitic le ‘him/it’. As expected given the
discussion of qui above, if C projects, the result is a complementizer and
if D projects, the result is an interrogative pronoun, as shown in (26a–b).
(26) a. Merge C and D, project C b. Merge C and D, project D
qu– (l)e
C
C D
qu– (l)e
D
C D
A somewhat different argument for the existence of labels comes from
the proposals that distinguish syntactic objects by reference to their labels.
By different labels, I do not mean a DP versus a VP, but a general “archi-
tecture” of a label. On this view, some elements have simple labels (in
the sense illustrated in (27a) or (27b) below), whereas others have more
complex ones, consisting of a set or an ordered pair, as shown in (27c) and
(27d) respectively.13
(27) a. b. c. d.
α
α β
β
α β
{α,β}
α β
<α,β>
α β
Chomsky (1995) proposes that such complex labels are necessary in
order to distinguish arguments from adjuncts. X-bar theory was able to
capture this distinction in a very straightforward manner; adjuncts were
defined as elements whose mothers and sisters were identical. In (28a)
and (28b), YP is an adjunct (of XP and X′, respectively), and in (28c), Y
is an adjunct of X.
5.2 Arguments for (and against) eliminating labels 173
(28) a. b. c.
XP
YP XP
X WP
XP
ZP X
YP X
X WP
XP
ZP X
X WP
Y X
In Bare Phrase Structure Theory, however, adjuncts become indistinguish-
able from specifiers. Consider the bare phrase structure counterparts of
(28a–c), given in (29a–c) below. In (29a) and (29b), it is impossible to tell
whether y is a specifier or an adjunct of x, and in (29c) it is impossible to
tell whether y is adjoined to x or is its leftward complement.14
To solve this problem (and thus capture the differences between arguments
and adjuncts in structural terms), Chomsky (1995) proposes that adjunc-
tion structures have different labels from complementation structures.
When an adjunct is introduced into the structure, the label of the resulting
structure is an ordered pair, represented in set notation in (30a) and in tree
notation in (30b).15
<K,K>
α K
This reflects the intuition behind what is traditionally referred to as
Chomsky-adjunction; the process in which one node is essentially “doubled”
by the structure-building operation. Given this notation, the three types
of adjunction structures under consideration here (i.e. adjunction to a
maximal projection, adjunction to an intermediate projection, and adjunc-
tion to a head) can be represented as in (31a–c).
<x,x>
y x
x w
x
z <x,y>
y x
x w
x
z x
<x,x> w
y x
x
y x
x w
x
z x
y x
x w
x
z x
x x
y x
(29) a. b. c.
(31) a. b. c.
(30) a. L = { < H(K), H(K)>, {α, K}} (Chomsky 1995:248)
b.
174 Symmetric labels
Chomsky (2004), however, departs from this view of adjunction and pro-
poses instead that the label of an adjunction structure is an ordered pair
consisting of the adjunct and the element being adjoined to, rather than
two segments of the latter. This is illustrated in (32a–c).).
(32) a. b. c.
<x,y>
y x
x w
x
z <x,y>
y x
x w
x
z x
<x,y> w
y x
The earlier version (i.e. the one given in (31a–c)) captures more closely the
spirit of Chomsky-adjunction (namely, the idea that adjunction splits a
single node into two). An interesting question that arises for both views
is whether the difference between complements and adjuncts concerns
only labels, or whether there is also something fundamentally different
about the way adjuncts and arguments are introduced into the structure.
Chomsky (2004) takes the latter view, and assumes that adjuncts and argu-
ments are introduced into the structure via a different kind of Merge. The
two types of Merge he proposes are Set Merge and Pair Merge. Set Merge
is the familiar kind of Merge; it takes two objects, combines them into one,
and projects one of them as the label. Pair Merge takes two objects, com-
bines them into one, and projects both of them as the label (in the form of
an ordered pair).
(33) a. Set Merge b. Pair Merge
α
α β
<α, β>
α β
A slightly different way of looking at the distinction between arguments
and adjuncts, which also relies on the existence of labels in the grammar,
comes from the work of Hornstein and Nunes (2008). It combines aspects
of the two ideas we just looked at: the idea that there are some label-less
constituents in the syntax, and the idea that the labels of adjuncts differ
from the labels of complements or specifiers. More specifically, they argue
that adjunction structures have no labels, as shown in (34), where y is an
adjunct of x.
(34)
y x
x w
5.2 Arguments for (and against) eliminating labels 175
What is interesting about their proposal (and what distinguishes it from
Chomsky’s) is the idea that adjuncts are introduced into the structure via a
simpler mechanism than arguments. Adjunction is a simple concatenation
operation (Merge without a label). This, they argue, can capture a number
of properties of adjunction, the most fundamental one being the fact that
adding an adjunct does not change the status of the element it is adjoined
to. Since in (34) neither x nor y projects, the X-bar theoretic status of
neither of them changes.
Choosing between these three slightly different views of adjunction is
not crucial for our purposes in this chapter; what is crucial is the conclu-
sion that emerges from the discussion above, which is that we need labels
in order to distinguish arguments from adjuncts in structural terms. This
conclusion holds irrespective of whether adjuncts have no labels at all or
have an ordered pair as the label.
Let me conclude this section by noting that even though, on Chomsky’s
view, adjuncts have complex labels (consisting of an ordered pair), they
do not have symmetric labels. Since the two elements contributing to the
label form an ordered pair, one is in a sense subordinate to the other. This
can capture the well-documented asymmetries between adjuncts and non-
adjuncts, such as the fact that extraction from adjuncts (unlike from com-
plements) is banned, as shown by the following contrast.
(35) a. * Whati
did they hire Bill because they needed more help with ti
?
b. Whati
did they tell Bill that he needed to finish soon ti
?
One final conceptual argument in favor of the existence of labels comes
from Hornstein (2009), who suggests that “labeling, understood as it is
within Bare Phrase Structure, supplies the necessary ingredient to get one
from a flat beads-on-a-string system to a hierarchical nesting system”
(Hornstein 2009:55). Paraphrasing slightly, labels make syntactic objects
visible for further concatenation processes and are thus necessary in order
to build hierarchical structure. Merge for Hornstein thus consists of two
distinct operations: Concatenate and Label. He further hypothesizes that it
is Labeling (rather than concatenation) that is unique to human language
(contra Hauser, Chomsky and Fitch 2002, for whom Merge itself is unique
to the human language faculty).16
176 Symmetric labels
5.3 Symmetric labels
The discussion in the previous section shows that the output of Merge
cannot be a set consisting of two input elements, and that it also needs to
include a label, marked as γ in (36).
(36) K = {γ, {α, β}}
As we saw in Chapter 2, Chomsky (1995) considers three ways to deter-
mine what γ is; it could be the intersection of α and β, the union of α and
β, or one or the other of α and β. He excludes the first two on the follow-
ing grounds: “the intersection of α and β will generally be irrelevant to
output conditions, often null; and the union will be not only irrelevant but
‘contradictory’ if α, β differ in value for some feature,” which is often the
case (Chomsky 1995:244). A hypothetical case, adapted from Pereltsvaig
(2008), provides an illustration. It involves the Merge of α and β, where α
and β have two features each (F and G), with conflicting specifications of
these two features.
(37) a. α = {−F, +G}
b. β = {+F, −G}
Without violating inclusiveness, the label of the new object (marked as γ in
(38a–f)) could be any of the following combinations of these two features.17
(38) a. γ = {−F, +G} (α)
b. γ = {+F, −G} (β)
c. γ = 0 (intersection of α and β)
d. γ = {+F, −G, −F, +G} (union of α and β)
e. γ = {+F, +G}
f. γ ={-F, −G}
In set theoretical terms, the set in (38a) is the complement of β (the
members of α that are not in β) and the one in (38b) is the complement
of α (the members of β that are not in α). These two sets are the result of
either α or β projecting. (38c) is the intersection of α and β (which is empty
in this case) and (39d) is the union of these two sets (which contains con-
tradictory features). The sets given in (38e) and (38f) include one element
from α and one from β. While these last two options do not violate inclu-
siveness (and do not result in contradiction), I will not explore them any
further here.
The question now is what F and G in (37) and (38) stand for. This is
the fundamental question of what features labels contain. It is clear that
5.3 Symmetric labels 177
at the very least a label has to include information about categorial status
of the constituent it labels. However, does it need to include anything else?
In Bare Phrase Structure Theory, the simplest assumption is that one of
the objects undergoing Merge simply becomes its label. This implies that
a label includes all the features of this object. For example, a label of a
noun will not only include features like person, number, gender (or class),
but also purely semantic or purely phonological features. It is not clear,
however, why labels would need to contain features that are never accessed
in a syntactic derivation: features like +adult (a purely semantic feature)
or +labial (a purely phonological feature). A more reasonable assumption
is that labels need to contain only syntactically relevant features. These
are categorial features and a subset of semantic features; features such as
person, number and gender on nouns, and tense, aspect, voice, mood on
verbs. Such features could be thought of as being parasitic on categorial
features, as, for example, only nouns and pronouns are inherently marked
for person, number, gender or class.
Let us look at one concrete example, in which the verb see merges with
the pronoun her. On the assumption that only categorial features and their
dependents project when the two of them merge, the union contains con-
tradictory features (both +N and −N, as well both +V and −V) and the
intersection is null, as shown in (39a–b).
(39) a. b.
{+V, –N, –V, +N}
see{+V, –N} her{–V, +N}
Ø
see{+V, –N} her{–V, +N}
However, while it is true that the intersection of α and β is often null
and that the union is often contradictory, it is by no means a logical neces-
sity. If the two elements undergoing Merge have the same features, their
union is not going to be contradictory and their intersection is not going
to be null. This opens up a new theoretical possibility, explored by Baker
and Stewart (1999), which is that symmetric labels are possible if the two
elements undergoing Merge do not conflict in categorial features.18
If α
and β with the same specifications of the two features F and G merge, the
resulting label could be the union of the features of α and β (as shown in
(40a)) or their intersection (as shown in (40b)).
(40) a. b.
γ{–F, +G, –F, +G}
α{–F, +G} β{–F, +G}
γ{–F, +G}
α{–F, +G} β{–F, +G}
178 Symmetric labels
Both labels are symmetric since the features of α and β contribute in
equal amounts to the identity of the label. In the rest of this chapter,
I examine the empirical consequences of this theoretical possibility.
I focus on the option illustrated in (40a), in which the label is the union
of its constituents. Such symmetric labels are allowed irrespective of the
phrase-theoretical status of the elements involved, as shown in (41a–c).
By contrast, the labels in (42a–c) are excluded due to the lack of identity
between Y and X.
{XP, XP}
XP XP
{X, X}
X X
{X, X}
X X
*{XP, YP}
XP YP
*{Y, X}
Y’ X
*{Y, X}
Y X
{V, V}
V V
{vP, vP}
vP vP
{VoiP, VoiP}
VoiP VoiP
{DP, DP}
DP DP
{CP, CP}
CP CP
(41) a. b. c.
(42) a. b. c.
More specifically, I motivate the existence of the following symmetrically
labeled constituents:
(43) a. b. c. d. e.
The ones in (43a–c) were proposed by Baker and Stewart (1999) to account
for the properties of three distinct types of serial verb constructions.19
A
variant of (43d) was proposed by Moro (2000) for (a subset of) Italian small
clauses and by Pereltsvaig (2008) for a subset of Russian small clauses. And
(43e) is the structure I suggested in Citko (2008b) for so-called comparative
correlatives, which is the structure (and analysis) I expand on below.
A natural question that arises for all the symmetric options under consid-
eration here is what determines when symmetric labels are possible. If cat-
egorial identity were the determining factor, we would expect a symmetric
label whenever two elements of the same category merge. However, this is
not what we find. Sometimes the result is a symmetric label, and other times
an asymmetric one. Since the answer to this question depends on the specif-
ics of the symmetric construction involved, I address it over the next three
sections, where I discuss symmetrically labeled constructions in more detail.
5.4 Serial verb constructions
Baker and Stewart (1999) propose a doubly headed structure for three
types of serial verb constructions in Edo. In our terms, a doubly headed
constituent is simply a symmetrically labeled one, in which each of the
5.4 Serial verb constructions 179
two heads contributes in equal amounts to the identity of the label.20
Baker and Stewart (1999) dub the three types, illustrated in (44a–c) below,
covert coordination, a consequential serial verb construction and a resulta-
tive serial verb construction. Covert coordination involves two transitive
verbs (each with its own object), a consequential serial verb construction
involves two transitive verbs sharing an object (where sharing does not
mean literal structure sharing or multidominance) and a resultative serial
verb construction involves an unaccusative verb as the second verb in a
series.
(44) a. Òzó ghá tòbórè lé evbàré rri órè.
Ozo fut by.self cook food eat it
‘Ozo will cook the food by himself and eat it.’ (Baker and Stewart
1999:10)
b. Òzó ghá tòbórè lé èvbàré ré.
Ozo fut by.self cook food eat
‘Ozo will by himself cook the food and eat it.’ (Baker and Stewart
1999:13)
c. Òzó suá Úyi dé.
Ozo push Uyi fall
‘Ozo Pushed Uyi, causing him to fall.’ (Baker and Stewart 1999:17)
Furthermore, they argue that the three types differ with respect to which
constituent is doubly headed (or symmetrically labeled in our terms). Thus,
covert coordination involves a symmetrically labeled VoiceP (as shown in
(45a)), a consequential serial verb construction involves a symmetrically
labeled vP (as shown in (45b)), and a resultative verb construction involves
a symmetrically labeled V (as shown in (45c)).
(45) a. covert coordination
TP
DP T
Ozoi T {VoiceP, VoiceP}
will VoiceP VoiceP
DP Voice DP Voice
ti Voice vP ti Voice vP
v VP v VP
cook NP V eat NP V
food e it e
(cf. Baker and Stewart 1999:11)
180 Symmetric labels
b. consequential serial verb construction
TP
DP T
Ozoi T VoiceP
will DP Voice
ti Voice {vP, vP}
vP vP
v VP v VP
cook DP Veat DP V
foodk e prok e
(cf. Baker and Stewart 1999:13)
c. resultative serial verb construction
TP
DP T
Ozoi
T VoiceP
will DP Voice
ti Voice vP
v VP
CAUSE DP {V, V}
Uyi V V
push fall
(cf. Baker and Stewart 1999:18)
Their evidence in favor of analyzing covert coordination as a doubly
headed VoiceP comes from the distribution of the reflexive element tòbórè.
As shown in (46a–b) below, this reflexive does not have to be string-
adjacent to the element it modifies. Baker and Stewart (1999) assimilate
(46b) to quantifier stranding (or floating); the subject moves to [Spec,TP]
and the reflexive stays in its base-generated position.
5.4 Serial verb constructions 181
(46) a. Òzó tòbórè ghá gié!gié lé èvbàré.
Ozo by.self fut quickly cook food
‘Ozo by himself will quickly cook the food.’
b. Òzó ghá (gié!gié) tòbórè lé èvbàré.
Ozo fut quickly by.self cook food
‘Ozo will quickly cook the food by himself.’
(Baker and Stewart 1999:10)
The fact that the reflexive can appear inside either verbal projection in a
covert coordination suggests that there are two VoicePs. Since for Baker and
Stewart subjects are specifiers of VoiceP, this yields two subject positions.
(47) a. Òzó ghá tòbórè lé èvbàré rrí órè.
Ozo fut by.self cook food eat it
‘Ozo will cook the food by himself and eat it.’
b. Òzó lé ízè tòbórè rrì órè.
Ozo cook rice by.self ate it
‘Ozo cooked rice and ate it by himself.’
(Baker and Stewart 1999:10)
The placement of the same reflexive element also provides evidence that
consequential serial verb constructions involve symmetry at a lower level
(vP as opposed to VoiceP). In serial verb constructions of this type, tòbórè
can only occur inside the first verbal projection, which shows that the
second verbal projection is smaller than VoiceP.
(48) a. Òzó ghá tòbórè lé èvbàré ré.
Ozo fut by.self cook food eat
‘Ozo will by himself cook the food and eat it.’
b. *Òzó lé èvbàré tòbórè ré.
Ozo cooked food by.self ate
‘Ozo cooked some food and by himself ate it.’
(Baker and Stewart 1999:13)
And finally, the evidence that resultative serial verbs involve a doubly
headed VP comes from the fact that only unaccusatives are possible as the
second verb in this type of a serial verb construction.
(49) a. *Òzó suá Úyì só.
Ozo push Uyi shout
‘Ozo pushed Uyi, causing him to shout.’
b. *Ékítà khú áhiánmwèn tín.
dog chase bird fly
‘The dog chased a bird, causing it to fly.’
(Baker and Stewart 1999:17)
182 Symmetric labels
Baker and Stewart (1999) further argue that doubly headed (symmet-
rically labeled) phrases are possible if neither of the two heads in such a
structure is attracted by some higher head, according to the condition
stated in (50), which I will refer to as a ban on ambiguous Attract.
(50) X attracts a head Y iff Y can check a feature of X, and for all Z such that
Z is not equal to Y and Z can check this feature of X, Y asymmetrically
c-commands Z.
(Baker and Stewart 1999:7)
To see how it works, consider the two schematic representations given
in (51a–b), in which the subscripts P and G stand for Probe and Goal
respectively. In a doubly headed structure, the two heads (such as YG
and
ZG
in (51b)) are in a symmetric c-command relationship. According to
(50), the Probe XP
is not able to unambiguously attract either of them.
Interestingly, the intuition behind (50) is the opposite of the intuition
behind equidistance (which would allow either Y or Z to move in such a
configuration). According to (50), however, X can attract Y in (51a) but
not in (51b), due to the fact that Y and Z stand in a mutual c-command
relationship.
(51) a. b.
XP
YG
ZG
P
G
X
Y ZG
The ban on ambiguous Attract has the following implications, discussed
by Baker and Stewart (1999); in covert coordinations, T cannot attract
the head of VoiceP, in resultative serial verb constructions, the Voice head
cannot attract the head of vP, and in resultative serial verb constructions,
the v head cannot attract either of the two Vs.
5.5 Small clauses
Another argument for allowing symmetrically labeled constituents into the
grammar comes from the domain of small clauses. I am not going to be able
to do justice here to all the arguments that have been levied in favor of (and
against) the idea that small clauses involve a symmetric structure.21
My
point is merely to point out, following Moro (2000, 2007) and Pereltsvaig
(2008), that certain types of small clauses might involve symmetric labels.
Moro (2000, 2007) argues that Italian has two types of small clauses,
which he dubs bare small clauses and rich small clauses, respectively. A bare
5.5 Small clauses 183
small clause is a small clause consisting of two DPs (one being the subject
and the other one the predicate), as shown in (52a), whereas a rich small
clause also includes a functional projection mediating the relationship
between the subject and the predicate, as shown in (52b). For our purposes,
the precise nature of the functional projection heading the small clause is
immaterial; it could be a Pred head (as argued by Bailyn 2001, Bailyn and
Citko 1999, Bowers 1993), a π head (as argued by Adger and Ramchand
2003 and Citko 2006, 2008a), or a Relator head (as argued by Den Dikken
2006).
(52) a. b.
{DP, DP}
DP DP
For Moro, bare small clauses are headless and thus lack labels. This makes
them another example of a symmetrically labeled constituent, as both
parts of the small clause contribute in equal amounts to the identity of
the label; namely, both contribute nothing. However, the arguments Moro
gives in support of such a structure are in principle compatible with small
clauses being symmetrically labeled, as shown in (53).
(53) a.
DP DP
The bulk of Moro’s arguments come from Italian. Italian is a canoni-
cal pro-drop language. This means, among other things, that in passives
and unaccusatives either movement of an argument or insertion of pro can
satisfy the EPP feature of T, as shown in (54a–b) and (55a–b) respectively.
(54) a. Giannii
arriva ti
.
Gianni arrives
‘Gianni arrives.’
b. pro arriva Gianni.
pro arrives Gianni
‘Gianni arrives’
(55) a. Giannii
è stato ucciso ti
.
Gianni was killed
‘Gianni was killed.’
b. pro è stato ucciso Gianni.
pro was killed Gianni
‘Gianni was killed.’ (Moro 2007:1)
FP
F
F DP
DP
184 Symmetric labels
This is not, however, what happens in copular constructions. The EPP
feature can only be satisfied via movement of the subject or the predicate
DP, as shown in (56a–c).
(56) a. Molte foto del muroi
sono [ti
la causa della rivolta]
many pictures of the wall are the cause of the riot
‘Many pictures of the wall are the cause of the riot.’
b. La causa della rivolta sono [molte foto del muro ti
]
the cause of the riot are many pictures of the wall
c. * pro sono [molte foto del muro la causa della rivolta]
pro are many pictures of the wall the cause of the riot
(Moro 2007:1–2)
Moro attributes the ungrammaticality of (56c) to the fact that the bracket-
ed constituent lacks a head, which is what makes it unstable, to use his ter-
minology, and requires one of the DPs to move out of the small clause. To
rule out such unstable structures, he proposes the following condition:
(57) For probe P and goal G (within a phase Φ):
a. * … P… G G … (Ambiguous Goal Violation)
b. * … G … P … G … (Discontinuous Goal Violation)
(cf. Moro 2007:8)
The reason why nominal small clauses violate (57a) is the fact that there are
two Goals, two DPs constituting the small clause and a single Probe: the
copula verb, which Moro takes to occupy a higher head position.22
This
makes the structure unstable and forces one of the two DPs to move.23
The idea that nominal small clauses have symmetric labels is also
defended by Pereltsvaig (2008), who follows Baker and Stewart (1999)
and assumes that this is possible if there is no feature conflict between the
two elements contributing to the label. Pereltsvaig’s empirical focus is on
Russian copular sentences in which both the subject and the predicate are
DPs marked with nominative case, such as the ones in (58a–b).24
(58) a. Vysotskij byl Gamlet.
Vysotsky.NOM was Hamlet.NOM
‘Vysotsky was Hamlet.’
b. Gamlet byl Vysotskij.
Hamlet.NOM was Vysotsky.NOM
‘Vysotsky was Hamlet.’
(Pereltsvaig 2008:52)
The properties of Russian copular constructions also show that the feature
match does not have to be complete for a symmetric label to be possible.
5.6 Comparative correlatives 185
A full match would only be the case if two identical DPs were merged;
in (59a–b) the two DPs differ (at least) with respect to their phonological
features; one is Vysotskij and the other one Gamlet. It is also not the case
that all their syntactic features have to match. This is made obvious by the
examples in (59a–b), in which the gender features of the two DPs do not
match; (59a) involves the noun sekretar ‘secretary’, which lacks a distinct
feminine form, and (59b) involves the noun nerjaxa ‘sloven’, which only
has a feminine form.
(59) a. Valentina Ivanova – sekretar’ gorkoma.
Valentina Ivanova.FEM secretary.MASC city.commitee
i vernyj tovarišč po partii.
and loyal.MASC comrade.MASC at party
‘Valentina Ivanova is the secretary of the city committee and a loyal
party comrade.’ (Pereltsvaig 2008:54)
b. Etot mal’cik – takaja bol’šaja nerjaxa.
this.MASC boy.MASC such.FEM big.FEM sloven. FEM
‘This boy is such a big sloven.’
(Pereltsvaig 2008:54, citing Comrie and Stone 1978:77)
In order to solve this problem (and maintain the intuition that all syntacti-
cally relevant features have to match), Pereltsvaig introduces a distinction
between grammatical gender features of nouns and phi-features of DPs
“housing” these nouns. Furthermore, she allows the two not to match.
What this means is that in the examples in (59a–b) above, the phi-fea-
tures of the two DPs can match even though the gender features of the
nouns themselves do not. It is not clear, however, how this would extend
to mismatches in other features or in other types of symmetrically labeled
objects. Furthermore, since we have to allow for some feature mismatches
anyway (namely, mismatches in phonological and semantic features), I do
not adopt Pereltsvaig’s solution and rather, maintain the assumption that
categorial feature identity is all that is required for symmetric labels to be
possible.
5.6 Comparative correlatives
This discussion expands on the analysis in Citko (2008b), where I proposed
that symmetric labels of the kind given in (60a) are involved in (at least a
subset of) the so-called comparative correlatives, an example of which is
given in (60b).25
The subscripts in all the diagrams in this section are purely
for expository purposes and have no theoretical significance whatsoever.
186 Symmetric labels
(60) a. {CP1,CP2}
CP1 CP2
b. The more I read, the less I know.
The label in (60a) is different from a label of a CP adjunction structure,
given in (61) below, which is an ordered pair of two segments of the matrix
CP:
(61) <CP2,CP2>
CP1 CP2
The crucial argument in favor of a symmetrically labeled structure for
comparative correlatives comes from the differences between standard and
comparative correlatives with respect to wh-movement. In Citko (2008b),
I contrasted the behavior of comparative correlatives and standard cor-
relatives with respect to wh-movement in three languages that allow both:
Polish, Hindi, and Hungarian. Here, I briefly summarize the results of that
paper, extend the analysis to comparative correlatives in other languages
(where we see different extraction patterns), and point out other (non
movement-related) differences between comparative and standard correl-
atives on the one hand, and comparative correlatives and other types of
adjunct clauses on the other.
Let me start with a brief description of what correlatives are and how
they have been previously analyzed. Correlativization is a relativization
strategy in which the relative clause is adjoined to the matrix clause (rather
than to the relativized constituent). Here I limit my attention to cases in
which the relative clause is left-adjoined to the matrix clause, as these are
widely believed to constitute prototypical examples of correlatives. A sche-
matic representation is given in (62). The relative clause contains a relative
pronoun or a wh-pronoun, and the matrix clause contains a corresponding
nominal (typically a demonstrative pronoun), which is typically referred to
as a correlative pronoun, a correlative phrase or simply a correlate.
(62) [ [rel clause
… WH/REL … ] [matrix clause
…DEM …] ]
There are two types of correlatives, which I henceforth refer to as stand-
ard and comparative correlatives. I illustrate this distinction with data from
Polish (see Izvorski 1997 and Rudin 2006, among others, for examples from
other Slavic languages). Standard correlatives are illustrated in (63a–c) and
(64a–c). In all of them, the relative clause is in italics, and the correlative
5.6 Comparative correlatives 187
pronoun is in bold. The examples in (63a–c) are all proverbs; however, the
ones in (64a–c) are not, which shows that correlativization in Polish is not
an archaic phenomenon, limited to proverbs or idiomatic statements.
(63) a. Kto rano wstaje, temu Pan Bóg daje.
who morning raises dem Mr God gives
‘The early bird gets the worm.’
b. Jak sobie pościelisz, tak się wyśpisz.
how refl make.bed this.way refl sleep
‘You made your bed, now lie in it.’
c. Gdzie kucharek sześć, tam nie ma co jeść.
where cooks six there not have what eat
‘Too many cooks spoil the broth.’
(64) a. Kto pierwszy przybiegnie, ten dostanie nagrodę.
who first runs this gets prize
‘The one who arrives first will get the prize.’
b. Jak mi każesz, tak to zrobię.
how me order this.way this do
‘I will do it the way you tell me to.’
c. Gdzie chcesz, tam pojedź na wakacje.
where want there go for holidays
‘Go where you want for vacation.’
Standard correlatives are typically analyzed as involving an adjunc-
tion structure of the kind given in (65) (see Bhatt 2003, Dayal 1996 and
Srivastav 1991, among others, for arguments in favor of such a structure).26
(65) IP
CPi IP
Dem-XPi
DP …
V-I
(cf. Bhatt 2003:495)
Comparative correlatives differ from standard ones in that the two clauses
establish a comparison between two degrees, amounts or individuals.
However, they resemble standard correlatives in many other respects. For
example, in comparative correlatives the first clause also contains a rela-
tive or an interrogative pronoun, and the matrix clause a corresponding
demonstrative pronoun, as shown in (66).
(66) Im więcej się uśmiechasz, tym lepiej się czujesz.
REL.INSTR more refl smile, DEM.INSTR better refl feel
‘The more you smile, the better you feel.’
188 Symmetric labels
The elements introducing the two clauses in Polish comparative correla-
tives are specific to this construction. Modern Polish does not distinguish
between relative and interrogative pronouns, but the im form that we see
in comparative correlatives looks like a remnant of the Old Slavic j-series
relative pronouns. Polish also allows comparative correlatives in which the
first clause contains a regular wh-pronoun and the second one a corre-
sponding demonstrative pronoun, as shown in (67). The wh-pronoun used
in such cases is also instrumental.
(67) Czym więcej się uśmiechasz, tym lepiej się czujesz.
what.INSTR more refl smile, dem.INSTR better refl feel
‘The more you smile, the better you feel.’
Furthermore, comparative correlatives are more common than standard
ones from a crosslinguistic perspective. Some languages (such as Polish,
Hungarian or Hindi) allow both types. However, there are many others
that only allow comparative correlatives. (68a–c) below provide examples
from English, Greek and Dutch (see Taylor 2006 for a larger sample).
(68) a. The more you smile, the happier you get.
b. Oso pio poli zahari tros toso pio poles Greek
as.much.as more sugar eat.2sg.pres that.much more
thermides pernis.
calories get.2sg.pres
‘The more sugar you eat, the more calories you get.’
(Kapetangianni and Taylor 2007:7)
c. Hoe meer je leest, hoe minder je begrijpt. Dutch
how more you read how less you understand
‘The more you read, the less you understand.’
(Den Dikken 2005:501)
Comparative correlatives are sometimes referred to in the literature as
comparative conditionals, to reflect their conditional-like interpretation.
This reflects the intuition that (69a) below can be quite naturally para-
phrased as (69b).27
(69) a. The more you read, the more you understand.
b. If you read more, you will understand more.
Comparative correlatives are often assimilated to standard correlatives and
assigned a similar kind of adjunction structure. This is the view taken by
Beck (1997), Den Dikken (2005, 2009), Huber (2007), McCawley (1988,
1998), Taylor (2006), among many others, and illustrated in (70–72) with
concrete examples.
5.6 Comparative correlatives 189
(70) a. Je schneller Hans rennt, umso schneller wird er müde.
the faster Hans runs the faster gets he tired
‘Hans will get tired faster, the faster he runs.’
b. CP2
1 CP2
DegP C DegPi C
je Deg C TP umso Deg C TP
schneller Hans rennt schneller er müde
CP
wird
CP2
1 CP2
DegPi C DegPi C
QP Deg C TP QP Deg C TP
OP Q Deg AP you read ti OP Q Deg AP you understand ti
the the
more more
CP
(cf. Den Dikken 2005:510)
(72) a. The more pizza you eat, the more you need to diet.
b.
(Kapetangianni and Taylor 2007:13)
All three involve adjunction of one CP to another one, and in all three
of them, there is A-bar movement internal to both CPs. The similarities
(Beck 1997:234)
(71) a. The more you read, the more you understand.
b.
CP2
1 CP2
the the
CP
C’ C
C FP C FP
DPi F DegPi F
more pizza F IP more Ø F IP
you eat ti you need to diet ti
190 Symmetric labels
end here, however. Even though the focus of this chapter is on movement
from correlative clauses (not on their internal structure), let me briefly
comment on the most significant differences between the structures in
(70–72) involving constituency, the status of the correlative element the
and the type of movement that takes place inside each clause. For Taylor
(2006), for example, the is a complementizer that does not form a con-
stituent with the compared DP more pizza. For Den Dikken (2005), the
is the head of a Degree Phrase forming a constituent with the com-
pared element. For Beck (1997), the is a specifier of DegP.28
The three
accounts also differ with respect to what kind of movement takes place.
In Taylor’s structure, for example, the compared element moves to the
specifier of a functional projection below CP. In Den Dikken’s structure,
the DegP (containing the plus the compared phrase) moves to the speci-
fier of CP.
What matters for us is that in all three structures, the first clause is
adjoined to the second one. Thus they all predict that comparative cor-
relatives should exhibit the matrix/adjunct clause asymmetry with respect
to wh-movement. Furthermore, since both standard and comparative cor-
relatives involve the same type of adjunction structure, they should also
exhibit the same behavior with respect to wh-movement. In the next two
sections, I test these two predictions, starting with a discussion of wh-
movement from standard correlatives.
5.7 Wh-movement in correlative clauses
The adjunction structure makes correct predictions about wh-movement
from standard correlatives; wh-movement is possible from the matrix
clause but not from the adjunct clause. This is illustrated in (73a–c) for
Polish, (74a–c) for Hindi, and (75a–c) for Hungarian. The “a” examples
show extraction from the adjunct clause, the “b” examples show extraction
from the matrix clause and the “c” examples show ATB-style extraction
from both clauses simultaneously.29
(73) a. * Kogoi
Jan myśli, że [kto lubi ti
], [ten powinien przeczytać
who Jan thinks that who likes dem should read
Annę Kareninę]?
Anna Karenina
‘Who does Jan think that the one that likes (him) should read Anna
Karenina?’
5.7 Wh-movement in correlative clauses 191
b. ? Coi
Jan myśli, że [kto lubi Tołstoja], [ten powinien
what Jan thinks that who likes Tolstoy dem should
przeczytać ti
]?
read
‘What does Jan think that the one who likes Tolstoy should read?’
c. *Coi
Maria myśli, że [kto lubi ti
], ten powinien przeczytać ti
]?
what Maria thinks that who likes dem should read
‘What does Maria think that the one who likes should read?’
(74) a. ???/* Kaun-sii kitaabi
Mary soch-tii hai ki [jis-ko ti
which book Mary think-hab.f be.prs that rel-dat
pasand] hai [us-ko Anna Karenina paRh-nii chaahiye]
like is he-dat Anna Karenina read-inf should
‘Which book does Mary think that the one who likes (it) should
read Anna Karenina?’
b. ? Kaun-sii kitaabi
Mary soch-tii hai ki [jis-ko
which book Mary think-hab.f is that rel-dat
War and Peace pasand hai] [us-ko ti
paRh-nii chaahiye]
War and Peace like is he-dat read-inf should
‘Which book does Mary think that the one who likes War and
Peace should read?’
c. * Kaun-sii kitaabi
Mary soch-tii hai ki [jis-ko ti
pasand
which book Mary think-hab.f is that rel-dat like
hai] [us-ko ti
paRh-nii chaahiye]
is he-dat read-inf should
‘Which book does Mary think that the one who likes (it) should
read (it)?’
(75) a. * Kiketi
hallott Mari, [hogy aki szeret ti
], [annak el
who heard Mari that rel-who likes, that-dat pv
kell olvasni az Anna Kareninát]?
need read-inf the Anna Karenina-acc
‘Who did Mary hear that the one who likes (him) should read
Anna Karenina?’
b. ? Miketi
hallott Mari, hogy [aki szereti Tolstojt],
what heard Mari that rel-who likes Tolstoy-acc
[annak el kell olvasnia ti
]?
that-datpv need read-inf-3sg
‘What did Mary hear that the one who likes Tolstoy needs to read?’
c. * Miketi
hallott Mari, hogy [aki szeret ti
] [annak el kell
what heard Mari that rel.who likes that-datpv need
olvasni ti
]?
read-inf
‘What did Mary hear that the one who likes should read?’
(Citko 2008b:919)
Note that all these examples involve long distance extraction; the entire
correlative construction is embedded under a verb like hear or think. This
192 Symmetric labels
could be a confounding factor in a language like Polish, in which long dis-
tance wh-movement from non-subjunctive clauses is somewhat degraded
for many speakers (as pointed out by Willim 1989, for example). However,
if the depth of embedding were solely to blame, we would not expect any
contrast between the ‘a’ and ‘b’ examples in (73–75) above. Furthermore,
we would expect an improvement if the “extra” level of embedding is
removed. This is not, however, what we find. The same matrix/adjunct con-
trast holds in (76a–b), which do not involve long distance movement.30
(76) a. ? Coi
kto lubi Tołstoja, ten czyta ti
?
what.acc who likes Tolstoy dem reads
‘What does the one that likes Tolstoy read?’
b. * Kogoi
kto lubi ti
, ten czyta Annę Kareninę?
who.acc who.nom likes dem reads Anna Karenina
Lit. ‘Who does the one that likes reads Anna Karenina?’
Having established that standard correlatives show the expected adjunct/
matrix clause asymmetry with respect to wh-movement, I turn now to
comparative correlatives.
The class of comparative correlatives I consider first differs from
the standard correlatives considered above in that they do not show the
expected asymmetry; either both clauses allow extraction or both disallow
it. In Polish and Hindi, wh-movement is possible from either clause, as
shown in (77–78).31
(77) a. Kogoi
myślisz, że [im lepiej poznasz ti
], [tym bardziej go
whom think.2sg that the better know.2sg the more him
polubisz]?
like.2sg
‘Whom do you think that the more you get to know, the more you
will like him?’
b. Kogoi
myślisz, że [im lepiej go poznasz], [tym bardziej
whom think.2sg that the better him know.2sg the better
polubisz ti
]?
like.2sg
‘Who do you think that the more you get to know him, the more you
will like?’
c. Kogoi
myslisz, że [im lepiej poznasz ti
], [tym bardziej
who think.2sg that the better know.2sg the more
polubisz ti
]?
like.2sg
‘Who do you think that the more you get to know, the more you will
like?’
(78) a. ? Kis-koi
Mary soch-tii hai ki [tum ti
jitnaa
? who-acc Mary think-hab.fem be.prs that you how.much
5.7 Wh-movement in correlative clauses 193
? zyaadaa jaanoge] [tum us-ko utnaa-hii zyaadaa pasand
? more know.fut you he-acc that.much-only more like
? karoge]?
? do.fut
?‘Who does Mary think that the more you get to know, the more you
like him?’
b. ? Kis-koi
Mary soch-tii hai ki [tum us-ko
? who-acc Mary think-hab.fem be.prs that you he-acc
? jitnaa zyaadaa jaanoge] [tum ti
utnaa-hii zyaadaa
? how.much more know.fut you that.much-only more
? pasand karoge]?
? like do.fut
? ‘Whom does Mary think that the more you get to know him, the
more you will like (him)?’
c. ? Kis-koi
Mary soch-tii hai ki [tum ti
jitnaa
? who-acc Mary think-hab.fem be.prs that you how.much
? zyaadaa jaanoge] [tum ti
utnaa-hii zyaadaa pasand karoge]
? more know.fut you that.much-only more like do.fut
? ‘Who does Mary think that the more you get to know (him), the
more you will like (him)?’
(Citko 2008b:920–1)
The Hungarian examples in (79a–c) show that extraction is impossible
from either clause. However, the pattern changes if the verb inside the
clause containing the extraction site is marked with an indefinite object
agreement marker. In such cases, extraction from either clause becomes
grammatical, as shown in (80a–b).
(79) a. * Kiketi 
hallott Mari, hogy [minél jobban ismerted ti
],
who.pl.acc heard Mari that what.at better knew.2sg
[annál jobban szeretted öket]?
that.at better liked-2sg they-acc
‘Who did Mari hear that the better you knew (them), the better
you liked (them)?’
b. ??? Kike ti 
hallott Mari, hogy [minél jobban ismerted
who.pl.acc heard Mari that what.at better knew.2sg
öket], [annál jobban szeretted ti
]?
them that.at better liked.2sg
‘Who did Mari hear that the better you knew (them), the better
you liked (them)?’
c. * Kiketi  
hallott Mari, [hogy minél jobban ismerted ti
],
who.pl.acc heard Mari that what.at better knew.2sg
[annál jobban szeretted ti
] ?
that.at better liked.2sg
‘Who did Mari hear that the better you knew (them), the better
you liked (them)?’
(Citko 2008b:921)
194 Symmetric labels
(80) a. ? Kiketi 
hallott Mari, hogy [minél jobban ismerted öket],
who.pl.acc heard Mari that what.at better knew.2sg them,
[annál jobban szerett-él ti
]?
that.at better liked.2sg.indef.ob
‘Who did Mari hear that the better you knew (them), the better
you liked (them)?’
b. (?) Kiketi 
hallott Mari, [hogy minél jobban ismerted ti
],
who.pl.acc heard Mari that what.at better knew.2sg
[annál jobban szerett-él ti
] ?
that.at better liked.2sg.indef.ob
‘Who did Mari hear that the better you knew (them), the better
you liked (them)?’
(Aniko Csirmaz, p.c.)
Since comparative correlatives have a wider crosslinguistic distribution
than standard correlatives, we can also examine their behavior with respect
to wh-movement in languages that do not allow standard correlatives. Let
us start with English. Culicover and Jackendoff (1999) observe that extrac-
tion is possible from either the first or the second clause, and Den Dikken
(2005) adds that ATB movement is possible as well.32
(81) a. a person whoi
[the more you meet ti
], [the more you hate him]
b. a person whoi
[the more you meet him], [the more you hate ti
]
c. a person whoi
[the more you meet ti
], [the more you hate ti
]
(Den Dikken 2005:504)
Furthermore, (82a–b) show that the grammaticality of (81a–b) has nothing
to do with the fact that one of the clauses contains a pronoun, which
could be construed as a resumptive pronoun. In (82a–b) below, there is no
pronoun inside the non-extracted clause, and the result is equally gram-
matical:
(82) a. This is the sort of problem whichi
the sooner you solve ti
, the more
easily you’ll satisfy the folks up at corporate headquarters.
b. The folks up at the corporate headquarters are the sort of people
whoi
the sooner you solve the problem, the more easily you’ll satisfy ti
.
(Culicover and Jackendoff 1999:564)
Culicover and Jackendoff (1999) assimilate wh-movement from com-
parative correlatives to movement involved in parasitic gap construc-
tions. However, parasitic gap constructions do show the matrix/adjunct
asymmetry; a gap inside the adjunct clause is only possible if there is move-
ment from the matrix clause, as shown in (83a–b).
(83) a. Whati
did John file ti
without reading pg?
b. * Whoi
did John file the letter without listening to ti
?
5.7 Wh-movement in correlative clauses 195
Thus if we were dealing with a parasitic gap phenomenon in compara-
tive correlatives, we would expect movement from the matrix clause (as
well as movement from both clauses simultaneously) to be possible, and
movement from the adjunct clause to be impossible. This is not what we
find; movement from the adjunct clause alone is possible. Culicover and
Jackendoff (1999) recognize this issue and suggest that comparative cor-
relatives are more like the parasitic gaps of the kind given in (84a–b) below,
in which either gap is independently possible. To abstract away from the
issue of which gap is real (and which one parasitic), they mark both as t.
(84) a. Whoi
did you tell ti
that you would pay a call on ti
?
b. Whoi
did you give pictures of ti
to friends of ti
?
(Culicover and Jackendoff 1999:564)
Such an explanation, however, does not extend to languages like Polish,
in which such parasitic gaps are impossible and which behave similarly to
English with respect to movement from comparative correlatives.33
(85) a. * Komui
powiedziałeś ti
, że odwiedzisz ti
?
who.dat say.past.2sg that visit.2sg
‘Who did you tell that you will visit?’
b. * Kogoi
dałeś zdjęcia ti
znajomym ti
?
who.gen give.past.2sg pictures friends.dat
‘Who did you give pictures of to friends of?’
Symmetric behavior of comparative correlatives is not limited to the lan-
guages considered so far. Kapetangianni and Taylor (2007) make a similar
point based on Greek data.34
(86) a. Pia thematai
nomizis oti oso pio poli diavasis ti
which materials think.2sg that as.much.as more read.2sg
toso pio kala tha grapsis stis eksetasis?
that.much more well fut write.2sg to.the exams
‘Which materials do you think that the more you read, the better you
will do on the exam?’
b. Pioni
nomizis oti oso pio poli argis na paris
who think.2sg that as.much.as more take.time.2sg subj get
to didaktoriko su toso pio poli apogoitevis ti
?
the PhD your that.much more disappoint.2sg
‘Who do you think the longer you spend in your PhD, the more you
will disappoint?’ (Kapetangianni and Taylor 2007:16)
Abeillé, Borsley and Espinal (2006) note a symmetric extraction pattern in
French comparative correlatives, illustrated in (87a–c).
(87) a. * C’est un livre dont plus tu te souviens ti
, plus
it.is a book of.which more you you remember more
tu l’apprécies.
you it.like
196 Symmetric labels
‘It is a book which the more you remember the more you like.’
b. * C’est un livre dont plus tu le lis, plus tu te
it.is a book of.which more you it read more you you
souviens ti
.
remember
‘It is a book which the more you read the more you remember.’
c. C’est un livre OPi
que plus tu lis ti
, plus tu apprécies ti
.
it is a book that more you read more you like
‘It is a book that the more you read, the more you like.’
(Abeillé, Borsley and Espinal 2006:12)
They also discuss Spanish, noting that it has two types of comparative
correlatives: one symmetric and one asymmetric. The examples given in
(88a–c) illustrate the symmetric ones, whereas the examples in (89) are
their asymmetric counterparts.
(88) a. * Dime a quién más conoces ti
y menos te
tell.me to whom more you.know and less you
fías de él.
trust of him
‘Tell me whom the more you know the less you trust him.’
b. * Dime de quiéni
más lo conoces y menos te
tell-me of whom more him you.know and less you
fías ti
.
trust
c. Este es un tipo de aceite del que más uno compra ti
this.is a type of oil of which more one buys
y más utilizati
i en las ensaladas.
and more uses in the salads
‘This is a type of oil which the more one buys, the more one uses in
the salads.’ (Abeillé, Borsley and Espinal 2006:18)
(89) a. Dime de quiéni
cuanto más lo conoces
tell.me of whom how.much more him you.know
menos te fías ti
.
less you trust
‘Tell me whom the more you know him, the less you trust.’
b. * Dime a quiéni
cuanto más conoces ti
menos
tell.me to whom how.much more you.know less
te fías de él.
you trust of him
‘Tell me whom the more you know, the less you trust him.’
(Abeillé, Borsley and Espinal 2006:17)
At first glance, Dutch and German also behave symmetrically, as shown
in (90a–c) for Dutch and in (91a–c) for German.35
(90) a. * Een man die [hoe vaker je ec ziet], [hoe/ des
a man who how often-cpr you see how/the-gen
5.7 Wh-movement in correlative clauses 197
te meer je ’m gaat haten]
te more you him go hate
‘a man who the more often you see (him), the more you get to hate
(him)’
b. ?* Een man die [ hoe vaker je ’m ziet], [hoe/ des te
a man who how often-cpr you him see how/the-gen te
meer je ec gaat haten]
more you go hate
‘a man who the more often you see (him), the more you get to hate
(him)’
c. ?* Een man die [ hoe vaker je ec ziet], [hoe/ des te
a man who how often-cpr you see how/the- gen te
meer je ec gaat haten]
more you go hate
‘a man who the more often you see (him), the more you get to hate
(him)’
(91) a. * Ein Sänger, den, [ je öfter du ec hörst], [desto
a singer who q often-cpr you hear the-gen-to
mehr du ihn treffen möchtest]
more you him meet would-like
‘a singer who the more often you hear (him), the more you would
like to meet (him)’
b. ?* Ein Sänger, den, [ je öfter du ihn hörst], [desto
a singer who q often-cpr you him hear the-gen-to
mehr du ec treffen möchtest]
more you meet would-like
‘a singer who the more often you hear (him), the more you would
like to meet (him)’
c. ?* Ein Sänger, den, [ je öfter du ec hörst], [desto
a singer who q often-cpr you hear the-gen-to
mehr du ec treffen möchtest]
more you meet would-like
‘a singer who the more often you hear (him), the more you would
like to meet (him)’ (Den Dikken 2005:505)
Den Dikken (2005), however, argues against a symmetric treatment of
Dutch and German comparative correlatives and points out that symmet-
ric movement is only possible under very limited conditions, namely when
the comparative element undergoes fronting in the main clause. If the
comparative phrase inside the second clause is not fronted, an asymmetric
pattern emerges instead.36
(92) a. * Een man die [ hoe vaker je ec ziet], [je ’m des te
a man who how often-cpr you see you him the-gen te
meer gaat haten]
more go hate
198 Symmetric labels
b. ?(?) Een man die [ hoe vaker je ’m ziet], [je ec des te meer
a man who how often-cpr you him see you the-gen te more
gaat haten]
go hate
c. % Een man die [ hoe vaker je ec ziet], [je ec des te meer
a man who how often-cpr you see you the-gen te more
gaat haten]
go hate
all: ‘a man who the more often you see (him), the more you get to
hate (him)’
(93) a. * Ein Sänger, den, [ je öfter du ec hörst], [du ihn desto
a singer who q often-cpr you hear you him the-gen-to
mehr treffen möchtest]
more meet would-like
b. ?(?) Ein Sänger, den, [je öfter du ihn hörst], [du ec
a singer who q often-cpr you him hear you
desto mehr treffen möchtest]
the- gen-to more meet would-like
c. % Ein Sänger den, [ je öfter du ihn hörst], [du ec
a singer who q often-cpr you him hear you
desto mehr treffen möchtest]
the-gen-to more meet would-like
All: ‘a singer who the more often you hear (him), the more you
would like to meet (him)’ (Den Dikken 2005:506)
In Table (94) summarizes the extraction patterns discussed so far.37
There
are four patterns we have seen evidence of, three of which are symmetric.
(94) Wh-movement patterns in comparative correlatives
Type Language Extraction from CP1
Extraction from CP2
ATB extraction
I Polish ✓ ✓ ✓
Hindi ✓ ✓ ✓
English ✓ ✓ ✓
Greek ✓ ✓
Hungarian ✓ ✓
II Hungarian * * *
German * * *
Dutch * * *
III German * ✓ *
Dutch * ✓ *
Spanish * ✓
IV French * * ✓
Spanish * * ✓
5.7 Wh-movement in correlative clauses 199
Logically speaking, these are not the only possibilities. The four given in
(95) below complete the picture.
(95)
Type Extraction from CP1
Extraction from CP2
ATB extraction
V ✓ ✓ *
VI * ✓ *
VII ✓ * ✓
VIII ✓ * *
Let me discuss them in turn, starting with the ones listed in (95). We
have not seen any evidence of these patterns, which raises the question
of whether they are possible at all. If wh-movement from either CP1
or
CP2
is possible independently, there are no syntactic reasons why move-
ment from both CPs simultaneously should be impossible. This is what
excludes Type V. Type VI, in which only movement from CP2
(the matrix
clause) is allowed, might be what we find in a language that has asymmet-
ric correlatives but no parasitic gaps (which would explain why movement
from both clauses is impossible). In the last two types (VII and VIII),
extraction from the adjunct clause (CP1
) is possible but extraction from
the matrix clause (CP2
) is not. Needless to say, this would be unexpected
on any assumptions concerning the differences between arguments and
adjuncts.
The upshot of the discussion in this section is that there exist com-
parative correlatives that allow symmetric wh-extraction (grammatical
extraction from either the matrix or the relative CP). These are Types I,
II, and IV of the table (94), which are the ones I focus on in the rest of
this chapter. More specifically, I show how symmetric extraction follows
from a symmetrically labeled structure, thus providing another argu-
ment in favor of the presence of symmetric labels in the syntax. However,
crosslinguistic variation with respect to wh-movement suggests that there
are two types of correlative clauses. In both of them, two CPs undergo
Merge. The difference between them lies in whether the features of one
of these two CPs project as the label, which yields a standard case of
adjunction (even if the label is a two-segmented object, as is typically
assumed), or both of them do (which yields a structure in which the two
CPs behave in the same way), as shown in (96a) and (96b) respectively.
The label in (96b) is symmetric because it contains the features of both
constituent CPs.
200 Symmetric labels
(96) a. asymmetric correlatives b. symmetric correlatives
<β, β>
α β
{α, β}
α β
Crucially, the distinction between symmetric and asymmetric correlatives
does not correlate with the distinction between standard and compara-
tive correlatives that we started this section with. We saw above that not
all comparative correlatives allow symmetric wh-movement, which raises
the question of whether the opposite is the case. Namely, do all standard
correlatives show asymmetric behavior with respect to extraction? For all
the languages considered in this chapter, the answer appears to be yes.
The reason why there are no symmetric standard correlatives could also
be linked to their structure. If the relative CP adjoins to a TP (rather than
a CP), as shown in (97a), a symmetric label of the kind given in (97b) is
impossible because the two constituents contributing to the label (TP and
CP) are not of the same category.38
(97) a. b.
<TP, TP>
CP TP
{CP, TP}
CP TP
Another question that arises here, brought to my attention by one of the
reviewers, is whether the relative clause in symmetric correlatives is related
to the main clause paratactically or hypotactically, and, more generally,
whether the difference between parataxis and hypotaxis could be reduced
to the difference in labeling along the symmetric/asymmetric dimension.
The crosslinguistic data presented in this section are consistent with the
assumption that correlatives form a continuum on the parataxis/hypotaxis
grammaticalization cline. While neither of the two types considered here
is fully paratactic, the symmetric ones are closer to the paratactic end of
the spectrum than the asymmetric ones. Given that the other two sym-
metrically labeled constituents considered in this chapter, serial verbs and
nominal small clauses, are not paratactic in any straightforward sense of
the term, the answer to the general question of whether symmetric Labeling
is a structural way to represent parataxis seems to be no.
The fact that some languages allow symmetric extraction does not mean
that there are no asymmetries between the two clauses whatsoever. As
pointed out by Culicover and Jackendoff (1999), the second clause in com-
parative correlatives behaves like a matrix clause with respect to diagnostics
5.7 Wh-movement in correlative clauses 201
such as subjunctive mood selection or tag question formation. The relevant
examples are given below.
(98) a. I demand that John pay more, the more he eats.
b. * I demand that John pays more, the more he eats.
(99) a. You get angrier, the more we eat, don’t you?
b. * You get angrier, the more we eat, don’t we?
(Culicover and Jackendoff 1999:549)
The fact that comparative correlatives behave symmetrically with respect
to some diagnostics and asymmetrically with respect to others is somewhat
of an issue for any account. There are two possible ways to address this
issue. One is to assume that comparative correlatives behave symmetri-
cally with respect to Narrow Syntax processes (such as wh-movement) but
asymmetrically with respect to interface processes such as interpretation
or morphological agreement. Another one is to assume the existence of
a process that converts symmetrically labeled structures to more standard
asymmetric ones.39
With this as background, we can now turn to the account of differ-
ent extraction patterns in comparative correlatives. The most symmetric
ones, so to speak, are Type I correlatives. This is what we find in languages
like Polish, Hindi and English, in which wh-movement from either clause
is possible, as is movement from both clauses simultaneously. Culicover
and Jackendoff (1999) attribute symmetric extraction from comparative
correlatives to their quasi-coordinate syntax, arguing that comparative
correlatives provide an example of a syntax–semantics mismatch: a con-
struction with coordinate syntax but conditional semantics. However, the
extraction patterns that we see in comparative correlatives are different
from the extraction patterns that we see in standard coordinate structures.
If comparative correlatives were coordinate, we would expect move-
ment from one clause to be impossible (as a violation of the Coordinate
Structure Constraint), and movement from both clauses to be possible (as
an instance of ATB movement). This is what we find in run-of-the-mill
coordinate structures:40
(100) a. * Whati
did John write ti
and Mary review an article?
b. * Whati
did John write a book and Mary review ti
?
c. Whati
did John write ti
and Mary review ti
?
Interestingly, this is what we see in Type III comparative correlatives,
exemplified by Spanish and French, which suggests that in these languages
202 Symmetric labels
comparative correlatives might really be quasi-coordinate. The fact that
they allow an overt conjunction between the matrix and the relative clause,
as shown in (101) below for French and in (88a–c) above for Spanish, adds
plausibility to this view.
(101) Plus je lis et plus je comprends.
more I read and more I understand
‘The more I read, the more I understand.’
(Abeillé and Borsley 2008:1153)
This, however, cannot be the right analysis for comparative correlatives of
Type I, as they do not allow overt conjunctions, as shown in (102a–b) for
Polish and English.
(102) a. * Im więcej czytam i tym więcej rozumiem.
rel.instr more read.1sg and dem.instr more understand.1sg
‘The more I read, the more I understand.’
b. * The more I read and the more I understand.
Type II correlatives, in which extraction is impossible from either clause (as
well as from both clauses simultaneously), also cannot be treated as coor-
dinate. If comparative correlatives belonging of this type were coordinate,
we would expect ATB-style movement from both clauses simultaneously
to be possible.
We can, however, explain the behavior of Type I comparative correla-
tives by resorting to the by now familiar idea that such symmetric cor-
relatives have symmetric labels. More specifically, their labels contain the
features of both the relative and the matrix CP, as shown below:
(103) Merge CP1
and CP2
Independent support in favor of such a structure comes from the fact,
discussed by Borsley (2004), that both CPs are obligatory, as shown in
(104a–b) for English and in (105a–b) for Polish.
(104) a. The more I read, the less I know.
b. * The less I know.
(105) a. Im więcej czytam, tym mniej wiem.
rel.instr more I.read this.instr less I.know
‘The more I read, the less I know.’
{CP1, CP2
P1
}
C CP2
5.7 Wh-movement in correlative clauses 203
b. * Tym mniej wiem.
this.instr less I.know
‘The less I know.’
If the first clause were an adjunct, we would expect it to be optional. This is
what we see in standard correlatives. The Polish examples in (106a–c) show
that the bracketed CP can be omitted without affecting the grammaticality
of the sentence.
(106) a. (Kto pierwszy przybiegnie), ten dostanie nagrodę.
who first runs this gets prize
‘The one who arrives first will get the prize.’
b. (Jak mi pokazałaś), tak to zrobię.
how me showed this.way this do
‘I will do it the way you showed me.’
c. (Gdzie chcesz), tam pojedź na wakacje.
where want there go for holidays
‘Go where you want for vacation.’
Furthermore, as also pointed out by Borsley (2004), the first CP is incom-
patible with other types of matrix clauses, which points towards a tighter
relationship between the two CPs in comparative correlatives.
(107) a. *The more books I read, I know the answer.
b. *Im wiecej książek czytam, znam odpowiedź.
rel.instr more books read.1sg know.1sg answer
(Borsley 2004:70)
The crucial question now is how symmetric labels make symmetric wh-
movement possible. To answer this question, I adopt Rackowski and
Richards’ (2005) proposal that the constituent from which wh-movement
takes place has to (independently) Agree with the head triggering movement.
It is this Agree relationship that makes it transparent for extraction, which is
how Rackowski and Richards derive the effects of the Adjunct Condition.41
Let us first see how their proposal works in simple cases of extraction
from adjunct versus complement clauses, before extending it to correlative
clauses. Example (108a) involves grammatical wh-movement from a com-
plement clause. The crucial point in its derivation is schematized in (108b).
The matrix v undergoes Agree, indicated by a dotted line, with the closest
potentially movable phase containing the wh-phrase, which in this case is the
embedded CP. The CP and the wh-phrase in its specifier are equidistant from
the higher Probe (the matrix v), which is what allows the wh-phrase in the
specifier of CP to legitimately move from the embedded CP. If the entire CP
moves instead, the result is clausal pied-piping of the kind found in Basque.42
204 Symmetric labels
(108) a. [CP
Whoi
do you [vP
ti
think [CP
ti
that we should [vP
ti
hire ti
] ] ] ] ?
b.
CP
C
C
v
CP
whoi C
C TP
… ti …
Agree (v, CP)
The derivation of the ungrammatical examples involving extraction from
adjunct clauses (such as the one in (109a) below) differs in that the wh-pro-
noun is not in the specifier of the CP which the matrix v undergoes Agree
with. Agree in this case is between v and the embedded CP (marked as CP1
in (109b)). However, the wh-pronoun is “buried” inside the adjunct CP,
marked as CP2
. Since v undergoes Agree with CP1
(not CP2
), movement
from CP2
is blocked.
(109) a. * [CP Whoi do you [vPti think [CP that [CP ti after we [vP hire ti] ] we will [vP
have to move to a new office] ] ] ]?
b.
CP
C
C
v
CP1
C <TP,TP>
CP2 TP
whoi C
C TP
… ti …
Agree (v, CP1)
5.7 Wh-movement in correlative clauses 205
Rackowski and Richards’Agree-based version of the Adjunct Condition
outlined above can be extended quite straightforwardly to correlative
clauses. We saw that (at least some) comparative correlatives differ from
standard comparatives in that they allow extraction from either CP. I also
argued that such correlatives have symmetric labels, which consist of the
features of both the matrix and the relative CP. This means that in some
correlatives, v is going to Agree with a symmetrically labeled CP. In both
symmetric and asymmetric correlatives, the matrix v will undergo Agree
with the closest phase containing a wh-phrase, the CP phase.
Extraction from asymmetric correlatives (which includes all stand-
ard correlatives and a subset of comparative ones) proceeds similarly to
extraction from adjunct clauses illustrated in (109b) above. The matrix
v undergoes Agree with the embedded CP (marked as CP2
in (110a–b)),
which makes this CP transparent for extraction; WH2
can undergo
further movement, but WH1
cannot (due the lack of Agree between v and
CP1
).43, 44
(110) a. movement from CP1
b. movement from CP2
CP
C
C
vP
VP
V
v
<CP2,CP2>
CP1 CP2
WH1 C1 WH2 C2
C TP C TP
… t1 … … t2 …
CP
C
C
vP
v VP
1 CP
CP 2
WH1 C1 WH2 C2
C TP C
V
TP
… t1 … … t2 …
<CP2,CP2>
By contrast, in symmetric correlatives, the matrix v undergoes Agree with
a symmetrically labeled constituent, consisting of both CP1
and CP2
. This
means that movement of either WH1
or WH2
should be possible, as shown
in (111a–b) respectively.45
And this is indeed what we find.
206 Symmetric labels
(111) a. movement from CP1
b. movement from CP2
WH
CP
C
C
vP
v VP
V {CP1,CP2}
CP1
1 C1 WH2 C2
C TP C TP
… t1 … … t2 …
CP2
WH
CP
C
C
vP
v VP
V {CP1,CP2}
CP2
WH1 C1 2 C2
C TP C TP
… t1 … … t2 …
CP1
5.8 Conclusion
To conclude briefly, I established two points in this chapter. First, I showed
that labels are necessary, as many syntactic principles and operations that
make reference to labels could not be easily stated in a system without
labels. Second, I argued that labels can be symmetric, thus adding to the
evidence in favor of the symmetric nature of core syntactic operations pre-
sented in Chapters 3 and 4. More specifically, I argued that a label of a
complex syntactic object is symmetric if it includes features of both of its
constituent parts. This departs from the standard minimalist view, which
is that a label is asymmetric in that it is determined by only one part. To
support the existence of such symmetric labels in the grammar, I showed
that they can account for a number of properties of certain types of serial
verb constructions, nominal small clauses and comparative correlatives.
207
6 Conclusion
My goal in this book was to make a case for symmetry in syntax, and to
show that syntactic structures and processes do not necessarily have to be
asymmetric or antisymmetric. In the process, I hope to have added to our
understanding of the structure and properties of the following construc-
tions: across-the-board wh-questions, right node raising, gapping, free
relatives (standard and comparative alike), serial verbs, copular clauses,
double object constructions, standard correlatives and comparative cor-
relatives. On a more theoretical level, I hope to have contributed to our
understanding of the three basic mechanisms in minimalist syntax (i.e.
Merge, Move and Labeling) and, more generally, to our understanding of
the combinatorial properties underlying the human language faculty.
The three questions that I started with are given in (1).
(1) a. Does symmetric Merge exist?
b. Does symmetric Move exist?
c. Do symmetric labels exist?
In the course of this book I argued that the answer to all three questions
is yes. I provided both theoretical and empirical arguments to support this
claim. After a brief introduction to the concepts of symmetry, asymme-
try and antisymmetry in Chapter 1, in Chapter 2 I reviewed both theo-
retical and empirical reasons not to expect any symmetry in the grammar.
We expect Merge to be asymmetric because of the Linear Correspondence
Axiom (which can only linearize asymmetric structures); we expect Move
to be asymmetric because of principles like Attract Closest or the Minimal
Link Condition (which privilege a higher element with respect to move-
ment); and we expect labels to be asymmetric because of the interface
conditions (which, as pointed out by Boeckx 2008, require labels to be
unambiguous and non-contradictory). In Chapters 3, 4 and 5, I challenged
these views and provided arguments in favor of the existence of: symmet-
ric Merge structures, in which a single element undergoes Parallel Merge
with two other elements (as shown in (2)); symmetric Move operations, in
208 Conclusion
which either of the two potentially movable elements can move (as shown
in (3a–b)); and symmetric labels, which are determined by both merged ele-
ments (as shown in (4)).
(2) Symmetric Merge
K L
α β γ
γ
(3) Symmetric Move
a. b.
γuF
αF
βF
γuF
αF
βF
(4) Symmetric labels
{α, β}
α β
The main empirical argument for symmetric Merge came from the fact that
it can account for a number of otherwise quite mysterious properties of
a number of distinct constructions. The ones I focused on in Chapter 3
were: across-the-board wh-questions, wh-questions with coordinated wh-
pronouns, free relatives, serial verb constructions, gapping and right node
raising. I showed that in all of them, there is at least one element that is
involved in Parallel Merge structure.
A more general question that the discussion in this chapter raised was
whether we can establish a general diagnostic of a Parallel Merge structure.
A possibility I considered briefly is that coordination is a hallmark of sym-
metric Parallel Merge. This, however, cannot be true, for the simple reason
that not all Parallel Merge structures discussed in this chapter were coor-
dinate. I also argued that free relatives (standard and transparent alike)
involve Parallel Merge, as do serial verb constructions. Neither of them
is coordinate in any straightforward sense. Even though certain types of
serial verb constructions might appear to be coordinate (with a null con-
junction mediating the relationship between the two verbs in a sequence),
there are solid arguments against treating them as such. Likewise, the rela-
tionship between the matrix and the relative clause in a free relative clause
is that of subordination not coordination. Thus, the correlation between
Parallel Merge and coordination breaks down in both directions. This
Conclusion 209
suggests that interpretation (a sense that the shared element is interpreted
in two places simultaneously without being moved from one to the other)
and morphosyntactic properties (a sense that a single element has to simul-
taneously satisfy the requirements imposed on it from two distinct posi-
tions in the structure) might be more reliable as diagnostics of a Parallel
Merge structure.
The main empirical evidence in favor of symmetric Move came from the
domain of passive movement in double object constructions. In Chapter 4,
we saw that some languages allow symmetric passivization, i.e. passivi-
zation of either object in a double object construction. We also saw evi-
dence of crosslinguistic symmetry of sorts; in some languages only the
higher object of the two can passivize, whereas in others only the lower
one can. I argued that we need both locality- and case-based approaches
to account for this crosslinguistic variation. However, we also saw reasons
not to reduce the pattern in which the indirect object is marked with dative
case and only the direct object can passivize to the non-structural nature of
dative case. The crucial evidence came from Polish, in which some objects
marked with non-structural cases do passivize but dative objects do not.
To account for this asymmetric pattern, I proposed that there is a struc-
tural component to dative case, manifested through the presence of an
uninterpretable case feature, in addition to the lexical component, which
is manifested through the presence of an interpretable case feature. The
uninterpretable case feature is checked/valued via movement to the speci-
fier of a light applicative head. This is a case-checking position, which
makes the element occupying it frozen for further case-related movements.
A natural question to ask here is whether symmetric passivization consid-
ered in this chapter is the only place where symmetric movement arises in
the grammar, or more generally, whether this is the only way movement
could be symmetric. It would be rather surprising if the answer were “yes.”
We could easily imagine analogous symmetry within the domain of A-bar
movement, involving wh-movement, scope, or focus-driven movements,
some of which I alluded to in Chapter 4.
The last domain of symmetry I examined in this book involved labels, in
particular the possibility that a label of a complex object can sometimes be
constructed “symmetrically” from the labels of both of its parts. The result
is a symmetric label of the kind given in (4). The main empirical argument
in favor of such symmetric labels came from the domain of comparative
correlatives, which (at least in some languages) allow symmetric wh-move-
ment; movement is allowed from either the matrix or the relative clause (or
210 Conclusion
both clauses simultaneously), or it is disallowed from either clause. The two
other candidates for symmetrically labeled constituents that I discussed in
Chapter 5 involved serial verb constructions and nominal small clauses.
Again, I think it would be very surprising to find that symmetric labels are
restricted to these three constructions. However, my goal in this chapter
was not to give a complete and definitive theory of symmetrically labeled
syntactic objects, but rather to present a couple of case studies and to show
that the existence of such objects is both theoretically feasible and empiri-
cally attested.
In short, the general claim I argued for in this book is that symmetry
exists within the domain of the three fundamental syntactic operations:
Merge, Move, and Labeling. This claim has many interesting implications
beyond the ones discussed in the book, and it may raise more questions
than it answers, but I hope it will open new research avenues and inspire
others to investigate other sources of symmetry within syntax. A general
question to ask in the context of the discussion in this book is whether the
existence of symmetric structures, symmetric operations and symmetric
labels simplifies syntax or complicates it. One might be tempted to think
that it is a complication, because it introduces new mechanisms into the
grammar, such as a new type of Merge (Parallel Merge) or new types of
labels (complex labels involving unordered sets or ordered pairs). I believe
something quite opposite is the case. The grammar with Parallel Merge
and symmetric labels is simpler than the grammar without them, as it does
not require any specific constraints to exclude them. Such a grammar is
thus more plausible from the perspective of the Strong Minimalist Thesis,
which strives for an optimal system with minimal constraints beyond the
ones imposed by the interfaces. This brings up another issue: the issue of
constraints on symmetry. If there is nothing that excludes symmetry on
principled grounds, why do we not find it more often? I showed in this book
that symmetry is in fact more pervasive than it appears on the surface,
as we see its effects in Merge, Move and Labeling. It is nevertheless true
that the effects of symmetry are often obscured by independent factors.
For example, most constructions involving Parallel Merge considered here
involve movement of the shared element out of the Parallel Merge struc-
ture. A related question concerns the origin of symmetry and asymmetry
in the grammar. We know that the output of syntactic operations is subject
to the conditions imposed by the interfaces. The interface conditions are
the familiar conditions governing interpretation and pronunciation, which
are typically assumed to require (and rely on) asymmetric relationships.
Conclusion 211
For example, functional application is an asymmetric operation and linear
ordering is a direct reflection of asymmetric relations between nodes in a
tree. However, I believe it would be wrong to conclude from these interface
conditions that the operations of Narrow Syntax must be strictly asymmet-
ric. What seems much more plausible is something akin to the conclusion
reached by Boeckx (2009), which is that conditions requiring asymmetry
are imposed by the interfaces not by the narrow computational system
itself. My conclusion, however, is slightly different. For Boeckx, “narrow
syntax should be formulated in a symmetric fashion and all the sources of
asymmetries should be relegated to the point of cyclic transfer” (Boeckx
2009:41). What I argued for here is not that that the operations of Narrow
Syntax have to be symmetric but that they do not have to be asymmetric.
This strikes me as plausible from the perspective of the Strong Minimalist
Thesis, as it does not require any extra conditions to rule out asymmetric
structures or operations. It simply adds a new perspective to our syntactic
theorizing, by allowing both symmetric and asymmetric operations.
212
Notes to chapters 000–000
1 Rationale
1 The definitions and examples in this section are based on Partee, ter Meulen
and Wall (1993).
2 For expository purposes, I will refer to the minimalist theory before the publi-
cation of “Derivation by phase” as early minimalism.
3 Readers familiar with minimalism will feel comfortable skipping to Section
1.4. Readers less familiar with minimalism might benefit from a more
general and comprehensive introduction, such as Adger (2003) or Boeckx
(2008). For readers familiar with the Government and Binding framework,
Hornstein, Nunes and Grohmann (2005) offers a good transition to mini-
malism.
4 We should keep in mind that the idea of optimality in the grammar is by no
means new (or unique) to the minimalist program. Consider, for example,
Culicover and Jackendoff’s (2005) Simpler Syntax Hypothesis, given in (i)
below:
(i) The most explanatory syntactic theory is one that imputes the minimum
structure necessary to mediate between phonology and meaning.
(Culicover and Jackendoff 2005:5)
There is, however, an important difference between the Strong Minimalist
Thesis and the Simpler Syntax Hypothesis. The latter might be viewed as an
instance of what Martin and Uriagereka (2000) call methodological minimal-
ism, which amounts to Occam’s Razor and is certainly not limited to minimal-
ist approaches to language. The more relevant kind of minimalism is what they
refer to as ontological minimalism, which emphasizes optimality in language
design itself, not just in the theory of language.
5 The term Multiple Spell-Out is somewhat unfortunate, as Spell-Out, techni-
cally speaking, designates only the point of transfer to the interface with the
sensorimotor system. A more accurate term would be Multiple Transfer. This
is not a substantive issue, as transfer to both interfaces is typically assumed
to happen at the same time, which means that Spell-Out and Transfer denote
the same points in the derivation. However, this assumption has been recently
challenged (see Marušič 2009 for arguments that Transfer to the two interfaces
can happen at different points in the derivation).
Notes to pages 6–12 213
6 The issue of what phase heads are is far from being settled in syntactic theory,
and the list of potential phase heads seems to be growing. For example, for
Chomsky only transitive (and unergative) v heads are phase heads. Legate
(2003), however, argues that unaccusative and passive v heads are phase heads
as well.
7 Studies show that other species are capable of acquiring recursive structures
of a less complex kind than the kinds involved in human language. One
possibility is that other animals can acquire strings generated by finite state
grammars but not those generated by phrase structure grammars. See Saffran
et al. (2008) and Newport et al. (2004), among others, for a discussion of
the differences between the kinds of grammars tamarin monkeys and human
infants can handle.
8 This is a somewhat idealized view of how Internal Merge works. There are good
arguments (see Abels 2003, Grohmann 2003, among others) that in reality the
kind of movement schematized here, i.e. movement from the complement to
the specifier of the same head, is not allowed. Since β, being α’s complement, is
already in a very local relationship to α in (10), moving it to the specifier of α is
redundant, and thus banned by economy.
9 Baker’s (1985) Mirror Principle, given in (i), could also be viewed as an example
of a symmetric mapping between the order of morphological affixes and the
order of functional heads:
(i) Morphological derivations must directly reflect syntactic derivations
(and vice versa). (Baker 1985:375)
10 Fox and Nissenbaum’s (1999) proposal does not totally eliminate the need for
rightward movement. The object undergoes covert Quantifier Raising to the
right and the “extraposed” PP adjoins to it countercyclically. This is only pos-
sible in a “single cycle” architecture where overt and covert movements can
interleave.
11 Perhaps an even stronger case for symmetry would come from movement in
which the same element can undergo either a raising or a lowering operation.
12 Another potential example of lowering in the syntax, due to Bošković and
Takahashi (1998), comes from Japanese long distance scrambling. For them,
the scrambled element such as sono hon-o ‘that book’ in (i) enters the derivation
in a position in which it is pronounced (the IP adjoined position) and under-
goes lowering at LF to its theta position, as shown in (ii). This is what accounts
for radical reconstruction properties of scrambled elements; the fact that they
are interpreted in their “unscrambled” positions. It is not clear, however, how
their proposal translates into the Multiple Spell-Out architecture assumed here.
(i) [IP
Sono hon-o [IP
John-ga [CP
[IP
Mary-ga [VP
[V
katta] ] ] to] omotteiru] ]
that book-acc John-nom Mary-nom bought that thinks
‘John thinks that Mary bought that book.’
(ii) [IP
John-ga [CP
[IP
Mary-ga [VP
sono hon-o [V
katta] ] ] to] omotteiru]
(Bošković and Takahashi 1998:350)
214 Notes to pages 17–21
2 Asymmetry in syntax
1 The symbol T in (1a) stands for a set of all terminal nodes, A is a set of ordered
pairs <X,Y> such that the first member asymmetrically c-commands the
second one, and d(A) (the image under d of A) is the set of terminals that A
dominates. The definitions of c-command and asymmetric c-command the
LCA relies on are given in (i) and (ii) below.
(i) X c-commands Y iff X and Y are categories and X excludes Y, and every
category that dominates X dominates Y. (Kayne 1994:16)
(ii) X asymmetrically c-commands Y, if X c-commands Y and Y does not
c-command X.
2 A relationship between two elements is transitive if for all pairs <x,y> and
<y,z> in the set, the pair <x,z> is also present in the set. For example, “be a
sibling of” is such a relation. If John is Bill’s sibling and Bill is Peter’s sibling,
John is Peter’s sibling as well. A relationship between two elements is total if
every two distinct elements in the set are ordered by this relationship. As noted
by Di Sciullo (2005), Kayne’s definition of antisymmetry departs slightly from
the definition of antisymmetry given in the previous chapter, where we defined
the relationship between two elements in a set as antisymmetric if whenever
both <x,y> and <y,x> are members of the same set, then x must be the same
as y. Furthermore, we took the relationship between two elements to be asym-
metric if it is never the case that for any pair <x,y> in the set, the pair <y,x> is
in the same set, which is what (2c) says. In the discussion in this chapter, I will
assume the definition of antisymmetry given in (2c).
3 The LCA thus derives the basic properties of X-bar theory; (4a) is a head taking
another head as its complement, (4b) is a phrase with two heads, and (4c) is a
phrase with no head. However, at the same time, the LCA is more restrictive
than X-bar theory; it only allows one adjunct per phrase ((4d) is a multiple
adjunction structure), and treats specifiers as adjuncts.
4 An issue that I come back to in Chapter 5 involves the label of the small clause
in (6a). According to Moro, a small clause is a construction consisting of
a subject and a predicate whose label is nevertheless different from both the
subject and the predicate. This leads him to conclude that small clauses have
no labels at all. I depart from him in Chapter 5, where I argue that (some) small
clauses have symmetric labels.
5 There is a variant of (7c) which does indeed involve a symmetric configuration.
It involves a non-branching object, as shown in (i) below. However, in such
cases, movement of either the verb or the object would resolve symmetry.
(i) VP
V D
6 Di Sciullo also argues that morphology is “more asymmetric” than syntax.
In particular, she assumes that syntax allows symmetry to the extent allowed
by Moro’s Dynamic Antisymmetry Theory (see the discussion in the previous
Notes to pages 26–7 215
section), but morphology never does. One example comes from scope consid-
erations. The ambiguity of (i) shows that scope is symmetric at a clausal level:
(i) Every student solved some problem. every > some, some > every
No analogous scope ambiguity exists at a word level; (iia) below, involving a
modal and negative prefix, is not ambiguous:
(ii) a. This situation is unbearable. neg> modal, * modal> neg
b. It is not possible to bear this situation.
c. # It is possible not to bear this situation. (Di Sciullo 2005:15)
7 The structural diagnostics discussed in this section come from Progovac’s
(1998a) and (1998b) GLOT overview articles on coordination.
8 Of course, one could argue that this is simply because et cetera means ‘and the
rest’. However, even speakers who do not know the origin or the meaning of
etc have very clear intuitions about this contrast.
9 One insight that appears to be lost on the asymmetric structure involves the
Law of the Coordination of Likes, which requires the two conjuncts to be of
the same category. This intuition, however, is only apparent. The fact that
the two conjuncts have to be identical also did not follow from the symmetric
structure generated by the phrase structure rule XP Å XP conj XP, as it is not
generally the case that the elements on the right hand side of the phrase struc-
ture rule have to be of the same type as the elements on the left hand side (just
as it is not the case that the specifier and the complement of the same head
have to be of the same type). Thus in either the symmetric or the asymmetric
approach, this identity requirement has to be stated as a property specific to
coordination. One possibility is to derive it from the semantics of coordination.
This is what Munn (1993), for example, does. Alternatively, we could attribute
it to the selectional requirements, or the lack thereof, of the conjunction head.
One way to do it is to assume that the conjunction head has no selectional
properties of its own. However, once it merges with one conjunct (which will
end up being its complement), it “picks up” the requirement that the conjunct
it merges with next (its specifier) cannot conflict in features with the first con-
junct.
10 Johannessen (1998) refers to &P as a CoP (Conjunction Phrase).
11 This pronominal head can sometimes be overt, as in the following example:
(i) (they), Tom, Mary and Jim. (Progovac 1998b:5)
Likewise, the first conjunction can be overt, in so-called correlative coordi-
nation. In some languages (like English) correlative coordination involves the
quantifier both, while in others, exemplified in (iiia–c), the repetition of the con-
junction.
(ii) Both John and Bill like movies.
(iii) a. Jean connait (et) Paul et Michel. French
Jean knows and Paul and Michel
‘Jean knows (both) Paul and Michel.’
216 Notes to pages 28–33
b. Sono arrivati (e) Anna e Roberto. Italian
are arrived (and) Anna and Roberto
‘(Both) Anna and Roberto have arrived.’
c. (I) Marija i Milan donose vino. Serbo-Croatian
and Mary and Milan bring wine
‘Both Mary and Milan will bring wine.’ (Progovac 1999:146)
12 Example (28) is modeled upon Progovac’s Serbo-Croatian one. The pattern
goes beyond Slavic languages though. The fact that the anaphoric second con-
junct (or an anaphor inside the second conjunct) cannot be licensed by the first
conjunct is also shown by the following data from Dutch:
(i) *Joopi en (een foto van) zichzelfi
*Joopi
and (a picture of) SE-SELFi
*‘Joopi
and (a picture of) himselfi
’ (De Vries 2005b:92)
13 I will not in this chapter discuss the relationship between double object con-
structions, such as the one in (30) in the text, and PP dative constructions, such
as (i) below:
(i) Gina gave a book to Sue.
Larson (1988), for example, argues that double objects are derived from PP
datives, which allows him to maintain a strict approach to theta role assign-
ments (cf. Baker’s Uniformity of Theta Role Assignment Hypothesis). Others,
such as Harley (2002), Ormazabal and Romero (2007) and Pesetsky (1995),
among many others, argue against such a derivational account, based on the
differences between double objects and prepositional datives of the kind dis-
cussed by Green (1974) and Oerhle (1976).
14 There is some variation in judgments regarding wh-movement in double object
constructions. Many speakers of American English find wh-extraction of indi-
rect objects ungrammatical. I come back to this variation in Chapter 4.
15 The extra objects, which are often referred to as applied objects, can bear a
variety of thematic roles. In (40b), for example, the applied object is benefac-
tive. Other possible thematic roles are goals, recipients, malefactives, instru-
mentals, locatives and reasons.
16 English double objects, however, differ from more ‘paradigmatic’ cases of
applicative constructions in that not all applied objects are optional. The verb
give differs from bake in that its objects are obligatory without special context.
(i) a. John gave Mary a cake.
b. *John gave a cake.
c. *John gave Mary.
With verbs like teach on the other hand, either object can be omitted:
(ii) a. Mary taught students calculus.
b. Mary taught students.
c. Mary taught calculus.
Notes to pages 33–8 217
Verbs like feed, on the other hand, require the indirect object to be present:
(iii) a. John fed cows hay.
b. John fed cows.
c. ?? John fed some hay.
d. *John fed (last week). (Pesetsky 1995:158)
Such differences do not bear on the issues discussed in this chapter.
17 These diagnostics do not have to go together. Alsina and Mchombo (1993)
discuss cases in which they diverge. In Chichewa, for example, benefactive and
instrumental applicatives behave alike with respect to passivization; both allow
only applied arguments to undergo passive movement. However, they behave
differently with respect to other diagnostics: word order and object marking.
In instrumental applicatives, both IO DO and DO IO word orders are pos-
sible, whereas in beneficiary applicatives, the IO has to be adjacent to the verb.
Furthermore, in instrumental applicatives, either the IO or the DO can deter-
mine verb-object agreement, whereas in beneficiary applicatives, only the IO
can.
18 More concretely, depictives (which Pylkkänen takes to be embedded inside a
Dep(ictive) Phrase can only modify categories of type <e,st>. The low applica-
tive is of a more complex type, which explains why it cannot be modified by a
Depictive Phrase.
19 The intended interpretation of (47a) is ‘I ran for him’ and of (47b) ‘I held her
book for Mary,’ with him and Mary being benefactors.
20 One might wonder whether equidistance might change this conclusion (and
make the movement of either α or β possible). Chomsky’s (1995) definition
of equidistance is given in (i), and the series of definitions leading up to the
definition of minimal domain are given in (ii).
(i) β is closer to K than α unless β is in the same minimal domain as (a) τ [τ
being the target of raising, B.C] or (b) α. (Chomsky 1995:356)
(ii) a. Max (α) is the smallest maximal projection including α.
b. The domain δ(CH) of CH is the set of categories included in Max (α)
that are distinct from and do not contain α or t.
c. The minimal domain Min(δ(CH)) of CH is the smallest subset K of
δ(CH) such that for any γ ε δ(CH), some β ε K reflexively dominates
γ. (Chomsky 1995: 299)
Chomsky (2004), however, dispenses with the concept of equidistance and
assumes a strict locality-based approach to movement. This is also the
approach I adopt throughout this book.
21 What distinguishes superraising from the cases of A-bar movement considered
above is the fact that movement of the higher subject instead does not result in
a grammatical string either:
(i) *Iti
seems that ti
is certain John to fix the car.
218 Notes to pages 38–43
22 In this respect, English seems to be the odd language out, since movement of an
embedded subject across an intervening experiencer is possible:
(i) Maryi
seems to John ti
to like syntax.
This is not a problem for the generalization established here, since the experi-
encer in English is a PP not a DP; see, however, Kitahara (1997) and Boeckx
(1999, 2008) for some complications stemming from this view.
23 The nature of the experiencer makes a difference. For example, in Italian
extraction is impossible across a full DP experiencer, but becomes possible if
the experiencer is a pronoun:
(i) Vickii
mi sembra [ti
aver dormito bene].
Vicki.nom me.dat seems have slept well
‘Vicki seem to me to have slept well.’ (Cuervo 2003b:127)
Icelandic exhibits a yet different pattern; extraction is impossible across both
a DP and clitic experiencer, but becomes possible across a copy of an A-bar
moved experiencer, as shown below.
(ii) *Hestarnir virðast mér [ti
vera seinir].
the horses.nom seem me.dat be slow
‘It seems to me that the horses are slow.’
(iii) Hverjumi
hafa hsestarnirj
virst ti
[tj
vera seinir]?
who.dat have the horses.nom seemed be slow
‘To whom does it seem that the horses are slow?’
(Holmberg and Hróarsdóttir 2003:998)
3 Symmetry in Merge
1 The ideas presented here are consistent with Merge being an asymmetric
operation, but leading to a symmetric structure through a series of asymmet-
ric steps.
2 One could ask here whether there is anything special about the symmetry
involved in multidominant structures. The run-of-the-mill structures created
by Merge, such as the one given in (i) below, also are symmetric; α and γ stand
in a symmetric c-command relationship. Multidominance, however, adds an
extra layer of symmetry, coming from the presence of two distinct roots.
(i) K
α γ
3 The term plane implies two distinct dimensions and some researchers do indeed
use the two terms interchangeably. For the purposes of this chapter, I will keep
the two distinct and focus on multidominant structures, and refer the interested
reader to Carnie (2008) for a discussion of the differences between multidomi-
nant, multidimensional and multiplanar structures.
4 These are not the only terms that have been used in the literature to describe
multidominant trees. Botanical metaphors abound. Svenonius (2005), for
Notes to pages 44–5 219
example, refers to multidominant trees as banyan trees. Van Riemsdijk (2006a,
2006b) analogizes the process of forming multidominant structures to the
process of grafting one tree onto another. He refers to the shared element
as the callus, one tree as the stock and the other one as the graft (or scion).
Furthermore, for him the two planes are not equal in status; one is in a sense
“parasitic” on the other.
5 Some of the ideas discussed in this chapter draw on previous work of mine.
The discussion of the Parallel Merge mechanism itself and its application to
ATB wh-questions builds on Citko (2003) and (2005). The discussion of free
relatives builds on my dissertation (Citko 2000). Citko (in press-b) provides a
general overview of multidominance in minimalist syntax, which summarizes
some of the ideas discussed in this chapter.
6 One might wonder whether the second step (3b) violates the Extension
Condition (which Chomsky more recently subsumes under the No Tampering
Condition), which requires operations to target the root of the tree. This might
be a valid objection, but I do not believe it is a deadly blow to multidominance,
given the existence of other movements that violate the Extension Condition,
such as head movement or covert movement.
7 In recent minimalist literature, movement is often conceived as resulting in a
multidominant structure, which is a fairly standard way to interpret Chomsky’s
(2004) idea that Move reduces to Internal Merge. On this view, a wh-moved
subject would be multiply dominated (by CP and TP). Here, however, I main-
tain a distinction between multidominance resulting from Parallel Merge
(which, itself, could be a sequence of two applications of External Merge) and
multidominance resulting from movement. In this respect, I follow Gračanin-
Yüksek (2007), who also assumes that there are two types of multidominance,
one resulting from Parallel Merge (or a process akin to it) and the other one
from movement. She dubs them vertical and horizontal sharing, respectively.
Her definitions of the two are given below.
(i) X and Y horizontally share α if X ≠ Y and:
X does not dominate Y and Y does not dominate X; and
X reflexively dominates X′ and Y reflexively dominates Y′, and X′ and
Y’ immediately share α.
(ii) X and Y vertically share α if X ≠ Y and:
X dominates Y or Y dominates X, and
X and Y immediately share α. (Gračanin-Yüksek 2007:10-11)
8 Following Peters and Ritchie (1973), Williams (1978:32) takes a factor to be
“any substring of a well-formed labeled bracketing that does not begin with a
right bracket or end with a left bracket.” The parallelism constraint requires all
conjuncts to be split by a factor line if one conjunct is split. It also requires left
conjunct brackets to belong to the same factor.
9 The concept of a reduced phrase marker (RPM) is due to Lasnik and Kuppin
(1977) and is discussed by Lasnik (2000), where the examples and definitions
given below come from. A phrase marker (PM) is a set consisting of all the lines
220 Notes to pages 47–56
in the derivation of a given string. For example, a PM for the sentence He left is
the one in (i).
(i) PM = {S, he left, he VP, he V, NP left, NP VP, NP V}
A monostring in turn consists of exactly one nonterminal symbol and any
number of terminal symbols. The monostrings are in bold in (i). Reduced
phrase markers (RPMs) are sets that contain only terminal strings and mono-
strings. The RPM for He left is given in (ii).
(ii) RPM = {S, he left, he VP, he V, NP left}
The theory of phrase structure based on reduced phrase markers is more
restrictive than the theory based on standard phrase markers; every reduced
phrase marker is a phrase marker but not every phrase marker is a reduced
phrase marker.
10 One potential question about such “mixed” structures is linearization. As we
will see shortly, one of the most straightforward ways to linearize a multi-
dominant structure is to move the pivot (and spell it out in a post-movement
non-symmetric position). This is impossible if the pivot is a “mixed” category
of the kind given in (13a–b). However, such linearization considerations would
also exclude structures in which the pivot is intermediate in both planes, such
as the one given in (11a–b) above. This is not a fatal blow to the feasibility of
such structures, since (as we will see shortly), there are ways to linearize pivots
in situ.
11 The abbreviation val in (14a–b) stands for any combination of person, number
and gender features.
12 The existence of the Multiple Agree mechanism is not uncontroversial. See,
for example, Haegeman and Lohndal (2010) for arguments against Multiple
Agree and a “binary” Agree reanalysis of West Flemish negative concord
facts.
13 There are views of Merge that avoid this problem. For example, De Vries
(2005a) treats Merge as an inherently asymmetric operation that creates
ordered pairs <α, β>.
14 P’ and Pi
’ are precedence relations among strings of terminal elements.
15 The structure in (27b) is an updated version of Goodall’s structure, reflecting
current theoretical assumptions about phrase structure.
16 This is only true on the fairly natural assumption that identity (or matching)
with respect to some feature implies the presence of one head responsible for
that feature. Thus, identity in tense between two conjuncts implies the presence
of one T head.
17 This is not the only logical possibility. The wh-phrase could move to the speci-
fier of vP within only one conjunct. If it is the first conjunct, such a deriva-
tion might offer some insight into the reconstruction asymmetries in ATB
questions discussed by Munn (1993). It would predict that the wh-phrase can
be reconstructed either to the specifier of vP inside the first conjunct or to the
base-generated position shared between both conjuncts, but never to a posi-
tion within only the second conjunct. This might shed light on the first versus
Notes to pages 58–61 221
second conjunct asymmetry with respect to diagnostics such as Principle C and
Principle A effects, illustrated in (i–ii).
(i) a. *Which picture of Johni
did hei
like and Mary dislike?
b. Which picture of Johni
did Mary like and hei
dislike?
(ii) a. Which pictures of himselfi
did Johni
buy and Mary paint?
b. *Which pictures of herselfj
did John buy and Maryj
paint?
(Munn 1993:52)
However, one of the anonymous reviewers brings to my attention examples
involving an extra level of embedding, which could decide whether the issue
with (i–ii) is reconstruction into the first conjunct, or some kind of proximity
effect. The fact that they are possible (on the coindexed reading) suggest that
the latter is more likely to be the case.
(iii) a. Which picture of Johni
do you think hei
liked and Mary disliked?
b. Which picture of Johni
do you think Mary liked and hei
disliked?
18 There is a principled exception to this generalization involving case-syncre-
tic forms. I refer the interested reader to Citko (2005) for more discussion of
case matching and case syncretism in ATB wh-questions, and to Citko (2000)
and Section 3.3.6 of this chapter for a more comprehensive discussion of case
matching (and case syncretism effects) in free relatives.
19 Munn (1999) discusses factors that make a multiple individual interpretation
possible in English ATB wh-questions (see also Gawron and Kehler 2003 and
Citko 2007). In Citko (2007), I discuss factors that influence the availability of
a single individual, versus a multiple individual, interpretation in Polish ATB
questions, such as the choice of a conjunction (a consecutive or a contrastive
one) or the choice of a coordination strategy (simple coordination versus so-
called correlative coordination).
20 They become even more similar if movement is treated as Internal Merge/
Remerge rather than Copy and Merge. Then sideward movement literally
becomes Parallel Merge.
21 One could simply conclude from this contrast that headed relatives do not
involve a head promotion account. This, I believe, would be a rash conclu-
sion in view of the overwhelming evidence for promotion in relative clauses (see
Vergnaud 1974, Kayne 1994, Bhatt 2002, among many others).
22 Logically speaking, another direction of assimilation is possible as well. Instead
of assimilating ATB questions to parasitic gaps, one could assimilate parasitic
gaps to ATB questions. This is the line of thought pursued by Williams (1990).
Alternatively, we could treat both ATB wh-questions and parasitic gaps as
involving sideward movement. This is what, for example, Hornstein and Nunes
(2002) do.
23 The structure in (46) assumes Munn’s (1993) structure for coordination, in
which the conjunction phrase (Boolean Phrase in his terminology) is adjoined
to the first conjunct. The empty operator movement analysis, however, is
compatible with the accounts that treat the first conjunct as a specifier and
222 Notes to pages 61–9
the second one as a complement of a conjunction head. This is the account I
favored in Chapter 2, and have adopted since.
24 See Munn (2001) for an account of the differences between ATB questions
and parasitic gaps on the null operator movement account, and Hornstein and
Nunes (2002) for an account of these differences on the sideward movement
account.
25 This is contra Munn’s (1993) observation that ATB questions actually parallel
parasitic gaps in this respect. He considers example (47b) as an exception to
this generalization, rather than an illustration of the general pattern.
26 Even wh in situ languages can form ATB wh-questions, via scrambling, topi-
calization, or some other (non-wh-related) movement of the wh-pronoun.
27 Not all English speakers find such questions grammatical. I will not attempt
to explain this variation here. Instead, I will focus on describing the grammar
of the speakers that do allow them. A simple explanation would be that there
is some kind of variation with respect to the Law of Coordination of Likes.
For some speakers, i.e. the ones that allow wh&wh questions, the fact that the
coordinated elements are both wh-phrases is sufficient, for others categorical
identity is also necessary.
28 The judgments are more subtle as to whether wh&wh questions imply two
events of singing (or just a single one). Gračanin-Yüksek (2007) refers to the
two readings as it-reading and at-all reading, respectively, to reflect their para-
phrases given below:
(i) What did Sally sing and where did she sing it?
(ii) What did Sally sing and where did she sing at all?
29 For clarity’s sake, this derivation ignores movement to the edge of vP.
30 I will not discuss monoclausal accounts here, such as the ones proposed by
Zhang (2007), Gribanova (2009) and Citko and Gračanin-Yüksek (submitted),
as English only allows bi-clausal wh&wh questions.
31 Kazenin (2001) makes a similar point based on data from Russian. What is
interesting about Russian is that in some cases, sluicing is more restricted than
wh&wh questions.
32 Yet another way to analyze right node raising, argued for by An (2007), Ha
(2006) and Hartmann (2000), involves backward deletion, shown in (i). I will
not discuss it any further here and focus on a comparison between movement
and multidominant accounts instead.
(i) John likes TV shows about vampires and Mary dislikes TV shows
about vampires.
33 A potential counterexample might come from the fact that RNR obeys the
Coordinate Structure Constraint, as shown in (i). This, however, might have to
do with an independent parallelism constraint on RNR rather than the move-
ment itself.
(i) *? Josh was looking for the dean’s office, Maria was waiting in __, and
reporters were trying to find __, Joss’s office. (Sabbagh 2007:376)
Notes to pages 69–75 223
34 A similar argument, due to McCawley (1982), comes from the fact that VP
deletion includes the pivot. In (i-ii), for example, the missing VP is interpreted
as “admire Adolf Hitler” not just “admire,” which is what we might expect
if the pivot “Adolf Hitler” moved out of this VP. This argument, however, is
somewhat weakened by the Copy Theory of Movement (since the VP would
contain the copy of the moved pivot).
(i) Tom admires, is sure that everyone else admires, Adolf Hilter, but of
course you and I don’t [VP
Ø]
(ii) Tom admires, is sure that everyone else admires, Adolf Hilter, which of
course hardly anyone does [VP
Ø].
(McCawley 1982:100)
35 The issue of why rightward movement should be different in this respect from
leftward movement remains a mystery though.
36 One could imagine a scenario in which the two elements undergo independent
rightward movement (rather than moving as a unit). But it is not clear what
would force movement of both.
37 The fact that right node raising can target non-constituents is even more appar-
ent in OV languages. Thank you to an anonymous reviewer for bringing this
fact to my attention, as well as for providing the following example from
German:
(i) weil Hans vor __ und Peter nach __ dem Krieg starb.
because Hans before and Peter after the war died
38 Kluck (2009) makes a similar observation based on Dutch data and Larson
(2007) based on German data.
39 Polish numerals belong to three different classes, as shown by Rutkowski and
Maliszewska (2007). The Table in (i) gives examples of numerals belonging to
each class, and lists their properties.
(i) Types of numerals in Polish
(based on Rutkowski and Maliszewska 2007)
Type A-numeral N-numeral Q-numeral
Examples jeden ‘one’
dwa ‘two’
trzy ‘three’
cztery ‘four’
tysia
˛c ‘thousand’
million ‘million’
milliard ‘billion’
pie
˛ ‘five’
szesć ‘six’
siedem ‘seven’ etc.
Properties agree with nouns
they quantify
always assign
genitive case to
nouns they modify
agree with head
nouns in inherent
case contexts;
assign genitive case
in structural case
contexts
224 Notes to pages 77–82
40 This is related to the requirement that typically there are two remnants.
However, the grammaticality of (i) below, which contains three remnants,
shows that it is not an absolute requirement.
(i) Peter talked to his boss on Tuesday and Betsy to her supervisor on
Wednesday. (Sjoblom 1980:97)
41 This contrastive conjunction is also different from the so-called adversative
conjunction but (ale in Polish), which, according to Malchukov (2004), is a
conjunction that denies the presupposition of the first conjunct. An example is
given in (i).
(i) John went to the store but nobody saw him there.
42 Interestingly, in ATB wh-questions either conjunction is possible:
(i) Który artykuł Maria napisała a/i Ewa zrecenzjonowała?
which article Maria wrote andC
/and Ewa reviewed
‘Which article did Maria write and Ewa review?
The choice of a conjunction, however, affects the interpretation. For example,
(ii) below is most naturally interpreted as a question about a single quantity of
books with the consecutive conjunction i. With the contrastive conjunction, it
can be a question about two distinct quantities of books.
(ii) Ile książek Maria napisała a/i Ewa przeczytała?
how.many books Maria wrote andC
/and Ewa read
‘How many books did Maria write and Ewa read?’
See Citko (2007) for further discussion of factors that influence the interpreta-
tion of ATB questions.
43 Comparative clauses are an exception:
(i) Jan zjadł więcej pierogów niż Maria zjadła pączków.
Jan ate more pierogis than Maria ate donuts
‘Jan ate more pierogis than Maria donuts.’
Jackendoff (1971) notes that the deletion that we encounter in comparatives
is much freer than the deletion that we see in gapping, which suggests that the
two might be different processes. See Moltmann (1992a), however, for a multi-
dominant analysis of comparatives.
44 With respect to the last three diagnostics (contrastiveness, obligatory linguis-
tic antecedents and ungrammaticality in non-coordinate structures), gapping
differs from other types of ellipsis, such as VP deletion or pseudogapping. I
will not discuss these any further here (see Citko submitted, Johnson 2009 and
Coppock 2001 for a summary of these differences).
45 This example is modeled after Ross’s (1970) English example:
(i) I want to try to begin to write a novel and Mary a play.
(Ross 1970:250)
Further examples of non-constituent gapping from English are given in (ii–v):
Notes to pages 83–7 225
(ii) Arizona elected Goldwater Senator and Pennsylvania Schweiker.
(iii) Max writes poetry in the bathroom, and Schwarz radical pamphlets.
(iv) Maytag will give a brand new dryer to the winner of the Mrs. Albania
contest, and General Electric four hundred light bulbs.
(v) Jack begged Elsie to get married and Wilfred Phoebe.
(Jackendoff 1971:24)
46 One could analyze gapping in verb-final languages as an instance of right node
raising. Johnson (2006), however, shows four differences between right node
raising and gapping, which argue against assimilating the two. First, gapping
allows mismatches in inflectional features whereas right node raising does not,
as shown in (ia–b). Second, right node raising (but not gapping) can target ele-
ments below word level, as shown in (iia–b). Third, right node raising needs
to target continuous strings, whereas we saw examples of gapping that do not
need to. And fourth, gapping cannot strand prepositions but right node raising
can, as shown in (iiia–b).
(i) a. *He likes beans and you like rice.
b. *He always complains and you sometimes complain.
(ii) a. *Carly is overpaid and Will underpaid.
b. *Carly is overpaid and Will underpaid.
(iii) a. *John is confident of a successful outing and Peter is dependent on a
successful outing.
b. *John is confident of a successful outing and Peter is dependent on a
successful outing. (Johnson 2006:410)
47 This is different from the conclusion reached by Culicover and Jackendoff
(2005), who give the following examples as evidence that gapping cannot
involve movement. In (i) the DP cats would have to move from the subject
position of the embedded wh-clause, which would violate the Wh Island
Constraint, and in (ii) the possessor Kissinger’s would have to move in a way
that violates the Left Branch Condition.
(i) Robin knows a lot of reasons why dogs are good pets and Lesliek
catsj
tk
knows a lot of reasons why tj
are good pets.
(ii) I enjoyed reading both Kissinger’s criticism of Hitchens in the New
York Times and Hitchens’k
of Kissingerj
tk
criticism tj
in the New York
Times. (Culicover and Jackendoff 2005:275)
48 The generalization about matching I establish here for Polish differs from
McShane’s (2005), who claims that in Russian gapping constructions mis-
matches are possible. The example she provides to illustrate this claim is given
in (i). Note that the missing gap is in a subordinate clause, which suggests that
it is not a gapping construction.
(i) Podberëzovikov pogljadel na pomoščnicu, kak redaktor gljadit/
Podberezovikov looked.3sg.masc
at assistant like editor looks.3sg
/look.3sg.
pogljadel by na opečatku
masc
cond at typo
226 Notes to pages 88–95
‘Podberezovikov looked at his assistant like an editor looking at a
typo.’
(McShane 2005:137)
49 See Citko (submitted) for a detailed discussion of why voice matching requires
v sharing.
50 The idea that the remnants in a gapping construction undergo movement goes
back at least to Pesetsky (1982). Pesetsky’s (1982) argument in favor of such
movement came from the fact that it can explain why gapping shows subject-
object asymmetries characteristic of movement constructions. The relevant
contrast is given in (i–ii). The degraded status of (i) is presumably due to the
violation of the Wh Island Constraint; what matters is the relevant contrast
between these two examples.
(i) ?This man knows why you eat spaghetti and that man knows why you
eat macaroni. (Pesetsky 1982:644, citing Kuno 1976)
(ii) *This man knows why spaghetti makes you sick, and that doctor knows
why salmon makes you sick. (Pesetsky 1982:645)
51 Alternatively, the remnants and their correspondents could move out of their
respective conjuncts and the remaining vPs would move to [Spec, AspP] (in an
ATB fashion). This would be closer in spirit to Johnson’s account. However,
I refer the interested reader to Citko (submitted) for a detailed discussion of
reasons to prefer an account that does not rely on remnant movement.
52 There are two symmetric aspects to the structure Hiraiwa and Bodomo (2008)
propose for serial verb constructions. One is the symmetric object sharing, and
the other one is the symmetric nature of the phrase marked as Asp1+2
P. They
assume that it involves one phrase headed by two heads, following Baker and
Stewart (1999), who argue that such double-headed structures are allowed as
long as the two heads are of the same type. This could be viewed as an example
of a structure with symmetric labels, the possibility I discuss in Chapter 5.
53 These two are not the only possibilities. The patterns in (i)–(iv) are also pos-
sible in Dàgááré (see Hiraiwa and Bodomo 2008 for data and analysis).
(i) clefting of V1
(ii) clefting of V2
(iii) clefting of V1
+ V2
(iv) clefting of V1
+ V2
+ object
54 This predicate clefting pattern, namely the possibility of clefting the object
with either verb, is not a universal property of serial verb constructions.
Consequently, the analysis Hiraiwa and Bodomo propose for Dàgááré cannot
be a universal structure for serial verb constructions.
55 There are actually two variants of the Head Account. On one, due to Bresnan
and Grimshaw (1978), the wh-phrase is merged directly in the head position
and is related to the gap via binding. On the other, the wh-pronoun moves
from the relative clause-internal position to the head position (as suggested by
Bury 2003, Citko 2008b and Larson 1998, among others).
Notes to pages 95–104 227
56 It is logically possible that there is no single right structure for free relatives,
and that in some languages they have the Head structure and in others the
Comp structure.
57 We could also divide free relatives into types based on whether they are headed
by simple wh-pronouns or by complex wh-phrases:
(i) a. I will eat what John cooks.
b. I will eat whatever dish John cooks.
The issue of whether free relatives headed by complex wh-phrases are true free
relatives (or perhaps headed relatives in disguise, as argued recently by Donati
2006) is somewhat controversial. In Citko (2008b), I argue against Donati’s
claims, and show that the two types pattern alike with respect to many diagnos-
tics that distinguish headed from free relatives, such as complementizer selec-
tion, matching effects and extraposition in German.
Another important distinction (but largely irrelevant for our purposes) con-
cerns the interpretation of free relatives; more specifically, the fact that they
can be interpreted as either definites or universals. Larson (1987) points out
that two interpretations can be distinguished by the fact that the free relative in
(iia) is most naturally paraphrased by a definite noun phrase, as shown in (iib),
and the free relative in (iiia) is most naturally paraphrased by a definite noun
phrase, as shown in (iiib).
(ii) a. I will eat what John cooks.
b. I will eat the thing John cooks.
(iii) a. I read whatever John writes.
b. I read everything John writes.
This interpretive distinction was originally claimed to correlate with the pres-
ence (or absence) of -ever, but has since been shown to be independent of
-ever.
58 The interpretation changes though. TRFs contribute intensionality to the
interpretation of the clause, and can be paraphrased by intensional modifiers
such as allegedly, formerly, supposedly etc.
59 This is by no means the only possible conclusion. Grosu (2003), for example,
assumes that SFRs and TFRs involve the same structure (and derivation), and
attributes the differences between them to independently motivated semantic
considerations.
60 In Citko (2000), I proposed a slightly different symmetric structure for free
relatives, in which the wh-pronoun was shared between the matrix and the rela-
tive clause in its theta position.
61 Similar considerations apply to adjunct free relatives.
62 As pointed out by one of the anonymous reviewers, the resulting structure,
being a variant of the Head Account, faces the same issues that the original
Head Account faced. In particular, it fails to account for the relative clause
extraposition data in (i–ii) advanced by Groos and Van Riemsdijk (1981) in
support of the Comp structure. They attribute the ungrammaticality of (i) and
228 Notes to pages 110–14
the grammaticality of (ii) to the fact that the wh-pronoun is in [Spec, CP] and
only CPs can extrapose in German.
(i) * Hans hat was gelesen sein Vater ihm geschickt hat.
* Hans has what read his father him sent has
‘Hans read what his father sent him.’
(ii) Hans hat gelesen was sein Vater ihm geschickt hat.
Hans has read what his father him sent has
This contrast is also consistent with the possibility that free relatives in some
languages involve the Comp structure, and in other languages the Head struc-
ture. Furthermore, in (165b) there is a copy of the wh-pronoun in both the
Head position and the Comp position. Crosslinguistic variation can thus be
captured by allowing some languages to spell out the higher copy (i.e. the one
in the Head position) and other languages to spell out the lower copy (i.e. the
one in the Comp position).
4 Symmetry in Move
1 In this respect, my conclusions parallel McGinnis (2004), who also argues that
long A-movement can arise in two ways, “by an EPP driven derivation and by
a Case-driven derivation.” My account, however, differs in two respects, which
I elaborate on as I discuss McGinnis’s account (Section 4.6.2) and introduce
my alternative (Section 4.7.5).
2 There is variation with respect to the acceptability of (4b). For some speak-
ers of American English, passivization of direct objects is also possible (as
reported by Emonds 1972, Fillmore 1965, Postal 2004, among many others).
Further examples are given below.
(ii) a. Hei
was given ti
several books by the teacher.
b. Several booksi
were given him ti
by the teacher.(Chomsky 1975: 493)
(iii) a. Lagniappe: a small gifti
given a customer ti
by a merchant at the time
of purchase. (Webster’s 3rd
New International Dictionary) (Postal
2004:242, crediting Chris Potts)
b. For his allowance, a regular allowancei
was given him ti
by the King
of Babylon. (Jeremiah 52:34)
Furthermore, there are factors that improve passivization of direct objects
even for speakers that generally disallow it. For example, if the indirect object
is a weak pronoun, passivization of the direct object becomes acceptable.
(i) A letter was given ’im /*HIM by Mary. (Larson 1988:364)
3 These patterns are not the only patterns possible in these languages. I discuss
others as they become relevant.
4 Collins (1997a) suggests a parallel derivation for quotative inversion struc-
tures, illustrated in (i–ii) below.
(i) “I am so happy,” Mary thought.
(ii) “I am so happy,” thought Mary.
Notes to pages 115–20 229
5 The issue of symmetric movement in copular sentences is independent of the
issue of whether copular sentences involve a symmetric structure, in which the
subject and the predicate c-command each other, as well as the issue of what
the label of this structure is. In Citko (2008a) I argue against a symmetric struc-
ture for small clauses (i.e. a structure in which the subject and the predicate
c-command each other). However, in Chapter 5 I argue in favor of symmetric
labels for a subset of small clauses.
6 Dziwirek (2002) also lists nabawić ‘cause’ as belonging to this class. It differs
from both kinds of double object verbs considered in this section in that it dis-
allows either object to passivize.
(i) Janek nabawił Ewę kłopotu.
John.nom caused Eve.acc trouble.gen
‘John caused Eve trouble.’ (Dziwirek 2002:341, fn 1)
(ii) * Ewai
została nabawiona ti
kłopotu przez Janka.
* Eve.nom became caused trouble.gen by John
* ‘Eve was caused trouble by John.’
(iii) * Kłopoti
został nabawiony Ewę ti
przez Janka.
problem.nom became caused Eve.acc by John
‘A problem was caused for Eve by John.’
7 The answer to the question of which order is basic and which one derived
can also depend on the verb involved. Verbs can differ in this respect; for
some the neutral order is one in which the indirect object precedes the direct
one, whereas for others it is the other way round. The first class, however,
strikes me as the larger of the two (in Polish) and this is the class I focus on
here.
8 Not all diagnostics are directly applicable to Polish. Example (ia), unlike (ib),
implies that the students learned some French. In Polish, aspect, not word
order, is what conveys this implication. Example (iia) does not imply that the
students learned French (in spite of the IO DO order) but (iib), with the same
word order but perfective aspect instead, does.
(i) a. John taught the students French.
b. John taught French to the students.
(ii) a. Jan uczył studentów francuskiego.
Jan.nom taught.imperf students.acc French.gen
b. Jan nauczył studentów francuskiego.
Jan.nom taught.perf students.acc French.gen
9 There are some double object verbs, such as powierzyć ‘entrust’, for which DO
IO word order is more neutral (or even preferred):
(i) ??Powierzyliśmy sprawę dobrej kancelarii.
??entrust.past.1pl case.acc good.dat law.firm.dat
??‘We entrusted this case to a good law firm.’
(ii) ??Powierzyliśmy dobrej kancelarii sprawę.
??entrust.past.1pl good.dat law.firm.dat case.acc
??‘We entrusted this case to a good law firm.’
230 Notes to pages 120–2
See Dvořák (in press) for a discussion of such verbs in Czech and Bailyn (in
press) for a discussion of factors that influence the choice between two orders
in Russian. My main focus in this chapter, however, is on Polish verbs for
which IO DO order is the unmarked one.
10 With the opposite order of the two objects, opposite results obtain, as shown in
(i–ii). This, however, cannot be used as an argument that the DO is higher than
the IO, as it is also consistent with the DO IO order being derived from the IO
DO order via movement (or both orders being base-generated).
(i) a. Jan pokazał Marięi
jeji
szefowej.
Jan.nom showed Maria.acc her.dat boss.dat
‘Jan showed Maria to her boss.’
b. *Jan pokazał jeji
szefową Mariii
.
Jan.nom showed her.acc boss.acc Maria.dat
‘Jan showed her boss to Maria.’
(ii) a. Jan dał każdyi
czek jegoi
właścicielowi.
Jan.nom gave every.acc check.acc his.dat owner.dat
‘Jan gave every check to its owner.’
b. *Jan dał jegoi
czek każdemu pracownikowii
.
Jan.nom gave his.acc check.acc every.dat employee.dat
‘Jan gave his check to every employee.’
11 Willim (1989) and Wiland (2009) also show that in Polish movement of the direct
objectcaninduceacrossoverconfiguration.Theirexamplesaregivenbelow.
(i) *Czyjąi
książkę mui
pokazałeś ti
?
whose book him showed
‘Whose book did you show to him?’ (Willim 1989:122)
(ii) ??Synai
Kowalskich policja odesłał jegoi
mamie ti
.
son.acc Kowalski.gen police.nom sent.back his Mom.dat
‘The Kowalski’s son, the police sent back to his parents.’
(Wiland 2009:2)
12 Moore and Perlmutter (2000) apply some of these diagnostics to Russian. They
contrast the behavior of two types of dative subjects (inversion nominals and
subjects of infinitives) and argue that only the latter (subjects of infinitives) are
true subjects. The two are exemplified in (i–ii) below.
(i) Borisu ne istratit’ tak mnogo deneg na sebja.
Boris.dat neg spend.inf so much money on himself.
‘It’s not (in the cards) for Boris to spend so much money on himself.’
(Moore and Perlmutter 2000:377)
(ii) Borisu bylo veselo.
Boris.dat was.neut.sg merry.neut.sg
‘Boris was having fun.’ (Moore and Perlmutter 2000:374)
13 Conjunction reduction is another standard subjecthood diagnostic. It is not a
very reliable one for pro-drop languages like Polish.
Notes to pages 123–8 231
14 Other examples include so-called involuntary state constructions (to borrow
Rivero’s 2009 term), illustrated in (i). The term reflects the intuition that the
subject is in a certain state (or experiences a certain state) rather than being an
Agent of a certain action. Dziwirek (1994) also shows that they behave like sub-
jects with respect to most of the subjecthood diagnostics under consideration
here.
(i) Dobrze mi się dzisiaj spało.
well me.dat refl today sleep.past.neut.3sg
‘I slept well today.’ (Dziwirek 1994:57)
15 In the Relational Grammar framework, the fact that dative subjects behave
like subjects with respect to some diagnostics but not with respect to others is
captured by inversion (more specifically, 1–3 arc demotion). Space considera-
tions prevent me from doing justice to this analysis here; I refer the interested
reader to Dziwirek (1994) for an overview of the framework, and arguments
for analyzing dative subjects as intial 1s and final 3s.
16 This is reminiscent of McGinnis’s (2004) account, in which long A-movement
can also arise in two ways, “by an EPP driven derivation and by a Case-driven
derivation.” I differ from McGinnis in the following two respects. For me the
EPP driven derivation is not limited to high applicatives and the case-driven der-
ivation also involves movement. I will elaborate on these differences as I discuss
McGinnis’s account (Section 4.6.2) and introduce my alternative (Section 4.7.5).
17 Doggett (2004) refers to this type of movement as hurdling and McGinnis
(1998) as leapfrogging.
18 The reason why I refer to the second strategy as a case-based strategy has to
do with the fact that the movement of the indirect object is related to case. This
might not be quite obvious yet, but, hopefully will become apparent by the end
of the chapter.
19 McGinnis’s (2001) approach also belongs to this category. Since it makes more
specific claims about the nature of the movement schematized in (57a), I defer a
discussion of it till the next section.
20 Siewierska and Hollmann (2007) note the presence of the give it me variant
in the Northern varieties of British English. Haddican (2010) focuses on this
alternation in the greater Manchester area.
21 An anonymous reviewer brings to my attention examples involving idioms
such as take advantage of or keep tabs on, which pattern with symmetric double
object constructions in that they allow two kinds of passives, as shown below.
(i) a. Johni
was taken unfair advantage of ti
.
b. Unfair advantagei
was taken ti
of John.
(ii) a. Johni
was kept tabs on ti
by the FBI.
b. Tabsi
were kept ti
on John by the FBI.
As pointed out by the reviewer, the accounts of symmetric passives discussed
in this chapter will not extend to such cases. It is not clear that they should,
as we are dealing with idioms here, which suggests that something else might
232 Notes to pages 128–32
be going on. For example, passivization of the prepositional object could be a
consequence of reanalysis.
22 Doggett (2004) also points out that Norwegian and Swedish are counterexam-
ples to the generalization. They have symmetric passives but allow only one
ordering of the two objects (IO DO order).
23 Anagnostopoulou explicitly argues against case-based accounts, based on the
following data from Greek. What is interesting about Greek is that the indirect
object has inherent genitive case but it nevertheless blocks movement of the
direct object across it, as shown by the ungrammaticality of the examples in
(i–ii).
(i) ?*To vivlioi
charistike tis Marias ti
apo ton Petro.
?*the book.nom award.nact the Maria.gen from the Petros
?*‘The book was awarded to Mary by Peter.’
(ii) ?*To gramai
tachidhromithike tu Petru ti
apo tin Ilektra.
?*the report.nom mailed.nact.3sg the Petros.gen from the Ilektra
?*‘The letter was mailed to Peter by Ilektra.’ (Anagnostopoulou 2003:22)
Anagnostopoulou’s locality-based account capitalizes on the fact that passivi-
zation improves if the goal is not expressed overtly (or if it is clitic doubled).
Clitic doubling, she argues, has the effect of removing the formal features of the
intervening indirect object. The structure is similar to the structure proposed
here for the movement of Polish dative IOs.
(iii) To vivlio tis charistike (tis Marias)
the book.nom cl.gen award.nact the Maria.gen
‘The book was awarded to Mary.’ (Anagnostopoulou 2003:22)
24 The idea that symmetric and asymmetric applicatives involve different struc-
tures is also behind Baker’s (1988) analysis of the differences between symmet-
ric and asymmetric applicatives. For him, in symmetric applicatives, the verb
theta-marks both objects (which explains why they behave alike with respect
to diagnostics such as adjacency to the verb, verbal agreement and passive
movement). In asymmetric applicatives, the applied object gets its theta role
from a null preposition, which incorporates into the verb. As a result of this
incorporation, the applied object acquires what Baker refers to as “distinctive
object properties.” One of these “distinctive” object properties is the ability to
passivize.
25 A head can have an EPP feature either by virtue of being a phase head itself or
by virtue of inheriting it from a phase head. For example, C and v (and now
a high applicative head) have EPP features because they are phase heads, but
T inherits its EPP feature from C. The low applicative head cannot inherit an
EPP feature since it is not directly dominated by a phase head.
26 For both theoretical and empirical arguments in favor of anti-locality, see
Abels (2003) and Grohmann (2003).
27 There is a more general question concerning the semantic interpretation of
the two types of applicatives. In Pylkännen’s terms, transfer of possession is a
crucial aspect of the meaning of the low applicative head, as shown in (i–ii).
Notes to pages 132–7 233
(i) λx. λy. λf<e, <s,t>>
. λe. f(e,x) & theme (e,x) & to-the-possession (x,y)
(ii) λx. λy. λf<e, <s,t>>
. λe. f(e,x) & theme (e,x) & from-the-possession (x,y)
Given this difference in meaning, we would expect all applicatives involving
pure transfer of possession (with no implication that the applied object is bene-
fiting from this transfer) to be analyzed as low applicatives. In more concrete
terms, one wonders if this would not imply that the verb give should universally
involve a low applicative structure, and therefore universally disallow symmet-
ric passivization. However, many of the examples discussed above to illustrate
crosslinguistic variation in the availability of symmetric passives involved a
verb give or its close counterparts. To solve this issue, we would need to assume
that the meaning of the verb give can vary from language to language. In a lan-
guage with high applicatives, its indirect object would be interpreted as a bene-
factive, whereas in a language with low applicatives, it would be interpreted as
a goal or a recipient.
28 McGinnis (2002) accounts for this contrast by assuming that the DO tucks in
under the IO (rather than moves to the outer specifier of ApplH
) when it moves
to check the EPP feature of ApplH
. As a result of such tucking in, the IO is still
going to be closer to T for the purposes of passivization:
(i) [TP
T[EPP]
[vP
v [ApplHP
IO [ApplH’
DOi
ApplH[EPP]
[VP
V ti
] ] ] ] ]
This adds an extra parameter of variation (tucking in versus stacking), thus
obscuring the correlation between high applicatives and symmetric passives.
29 The (a) examples in (78–81) are from Emonds (1976:79). I added the (b) exam-
ples to complete the paradigm.
30 A related difference, also discussed by Marantz (1993), concerns the inability of
benefactives to form adjectival passives:
(i) *children-baked cookies
(ii) *boss-given flowers
Again, in this respect benefactives differ from locatives and instruments:
(iii) home-made cookies
(iv) hand-made cookies
31 McGinnis (2001) notes that the lower object in a low applicative structure is
not frozen with respect to wh-movement or quantifier raising. She does not
discuss multiple wh-questions (and the restrictions on wh-movement of the
higher object).
32 In a high applicative structure, the direct object moves through the specifier
of the applicative head, which also makes an interesting prediction concerning
reconstruction effects. In particular, it predicts that a direct object should be
able to reconstruct into this intermediate position, in which it should have wide
scope with respect to the indirect object (which remains in its base-generated
position) but narrow scope with respect to the subject.
33 Den Dikken (1995) further notes that long distance movement of indirect
objects is markedly worse than short (intra-clausal) distance movement:
234 Notes to pages 137–42
(i) % Whoi
did John give ti
a book?
(ii) * Whoi
did Bill think that John gave ti
a book? (Den Dikken 1995:183)
He also notes that empty operator movement involving indirect objects is
worse than overt wh-movement. His account capitalizes on this observation,
a move that leads him to reanalyze long distance wh-movement (and short dis-
tance movement for speakers for whom the contrast in (88a–b) holds) as empty
operator movement.
34 Hudson (1992) also observes an interesting contrast between extraction of indi-
rect objects and subextraction from indirect objects, given in (i–ii). At present, I
do not have an explanation for this contrast.
(i) Which booki
shall we give the author of ti
a prize? (Hudson 1992:258)
(ii) % Which authori
shall we give ti
a prize?
35 Extraction of applied argument becomes possible if the applied argument is
clitic doubled, as shown in (i).
(i) M-toto amba-ye wa-li-m-nunul-i-a zawadi.
1-child rel-1 2sa-past-buy-1OA-appl-fv 9present
‘The child whom they bought a present for.’ (Ngonyani 1996:46)
Anagnostopoulou (2003) discusses a similar effect of clitic doubling in Greek.
36 The standard GB-style assumption that quantifier raising is covert phrasal
movement is not trivial on current minimalist assumptions, where, generally
speaking, the effects of covert movement are derived from the Agree relation-
ship between a Probe and a Goal in its domain. For example, direct objects do
not have to undergo covert movement to [Spec, vP] to get their case features
checked (or valued). Case valuation can happen in situ, via Agree. The issue
of whether quantifier scope can also be handled via Agree is a very interesting
one, but one that goes beyond the scope of this chapter. I therefore assume
a fairly uncontroversial approach to QR, on which quantified noun phrases
undergo covert phrasal movement to their scope positions.
37 Inordertogetinversescope,thelowerobjecthastoscrambleoverthehigherone:
(i) Nauczyciel zadał jedno zadaniei
każdemu studentowi ti
.
teacher.nom assigned one.acc problem.acc every.dat student.dat
‘The teacher assigned one problem to every student.’
(ii) Nauczyciel zadał każde zadaniei
jednemu studentowi ti
.
teacher.nom assigned every.acc problem.acc one.dat student.dat
‘The teacher assigned every problem to one student.’
38 Frozen scope is a more general fact about Polish, extending beyond double
object constructions. This is not surprising; in free word order languages (such
as Polish) scope generally reflects the linear ordering of the two quantifiers.
Ionin (2002) makes a similar observation about Russian. However, she also
notes that inverse scope becomes possible if a universal quantifier is above a
stressed indefinite, as shown in (i) (see also Stepanov and Stateva 2009 for a
discussion of such examples).
Notes to pages 143–7 235
(i) Každaja koška ukusila odnu sobaku. Russian
every.nom cat.nom bit one.acc dog.acc
‘Every cat bit one dog.’ one > every, every > one
Polish behaves similarly in this respect. However, I do not believe that the avail-
ability of inverse scope under such restricted circumstances falsifies the generali-
zation that scope is generally fixed in Polish or Russian. This is the reason why I
use examples with neutral intonation to test the correlation between superiority
and wh-movement. I depart in this respect from Stepanov and Stateva (2009),
who use focused examples to test this correlation. They show that inverse scope
obtains in Russian double object constructions if the two quantifiers are con-
trastively focused. Since the two wh-phrases in multiple wh-questions do not
have to be contrastively focused for violations of superiority to be possible,
using examples with non-focused quantifiers makes the data more parallel.
39 Again, if the order of the two objects is reversed (via short scrambling, for
example), the opposite scope becomes possible:
(i) Maria trzymała jedne drzwii
każdemu gościowi ti
.
Maria.nom held one.acc door.acc every.dat guest.dat
‘Maria was holding one door for every guest.’ one > every
(ii) Maria trzymała każde drzwi jednemu gościowii
ti
.
Maria.nom held every.acc door.acc one.dat guest.dat
‘Maria was holding every door for one guest.’ one > every
40 This is somewhat of an idealization; we have seen above that in a single lan-
guage, some types of applicatives can be symmetric and others asymmetric.
41 The genitive case in these examples is lexically selected by the verbs, and it
differs from the so-called genitive of negation, a structural variant of the accusa-
tive case that appears on negated objects, as shown by the following contrast:
(i) Jan czyta książkę.
Jan.nom reads book.acc
‘Jan is reading a book.’
(ii) Jan nie czyta książki/*książkę.
Jan.nom not reads book.gen/*acc
‘Jan is not reading a book.’
42 Interestingly, not all lexically case-marked objects passivize. The examples
in (i–ii) involve genitives that do not passivize, and the ones in (iii–iv) instru-
mentals that do not passivize. At present, the factors that distinguish the two
types of passives remain somewhat unclear. The distinction between adjecti-
val and verbal passives cannot be the crucial factor, since these passives allow
by phrases, which is a property typically associated with verbal passives. (The
active sentences, i.e. the ‘a’ sentences, are from Jagodzinski 2007. I have added
the translations and the ungrammatical passives – the ‘b’ sentences.)
(i) a. Każdy pragnie czułości.
everyone.nom desires tenderness.gen
‘Everyone desires tenderness.’
236 Notes to page 148
b. * Czułośći
jest pragniona ti
przez każdego.
tenderness.nom is desired by everyone
‘Tenderness is desired by everyone.’
(ii) a. Staszek dostał grypy.
Stanislaus.nom caught influenza.gen
‘Stanislaus caught a flu.’
b. * Grypai
była dostana ti
przez Staszka.
flu.nom was caught by Stanislaus
‘Flu was caught by Stanislaus.’
(iii) a. Magda gardzi niebezpieczeństwami.
Magda.nom despises perils.instr
‘Magda despises perils.’
b. * Niebezpieczeństwai
są gardzone ti
przez Magdę.
perils.nom are despised by Magda
‘Perils are despised by Magda.’
(iv) a. Anna bawi się lalkami.
Anna.nom plays refl dolls.instr
‘Anna plays with her dolls.’
b. * Lalkii
zostały bawione ti
się przez Annę.
dolls were played refl by Anna
‘The dolls were played with by Anna.’ (Jagodziński 2007)
43 The behavior of English experiencers is not directly relevant here, as experi-
encers (in raising constructions) and indirect objects are of different categories
(PPs headed by the preposition to versus DPs marked with accusative case).
The lack of intervention effects of any sort, illustrated in (i–iii), might thus be
attributed to the fact that the experiencer does not c-command the embedded
subject (since it is buried within the PP).
(i) Johni
seems to Mary [ti
to be the best candidate].
(ii) Johni
seems to her [ti
to be the best candidate].
(iii) To whomj
does Johni
seem tj
[ti
to be the best candidate].
However, standard c-command diagnostics suggest that the experiencer does
indeed c-command the embedded subject; otherwise it would be impossible
to explain the data in (iv–v) showing a c-command relationship between the
experiencer and the embedded subject; (iv) is a Principle C violation, and the
anaphor in (v) has to be in the c-command domain of the experiencer (at some
point in the derivation).
(iv) *Theyj
seem to himi
tj
to like Johni
.
(v) Pictures of himselfi
seem to Johni
t to be ugly.
A lot of research has gone into explaining why English experiencers behave
as interveners with respect to some diagnostics but not with respect to others.
Kitahara (1997), for example, accounts for this difference by assuming that the
DP experiencer c-commands into the embedded clause only at LF, as a result
of covert adjunction to PP.
Notes to pages 150–3 237
44 McGinnis (2001) attributes the Icelandic pattern to the fact that the dative
experiencer is a closer candidate for movement because it is in a low applicative
structure instead.
45 I adopt Lee-Schoenfeld’s (2006) terminology, who focuses on German (not
Polish) to refer to different types of dative constructions, abstracting away
from the issue of how to analyze them all. For a detailed description of Polish
datives, I refer the interested reader to Dąbrowska (1997).
46 There are two lines of thought on the structure (and derivation) of dative pos-
sessors. One is a possessor raising analysis, on which the possessor raises from
its DP-internal position to some higher position within the verbal domain,
such as the specifier of VP or the specifier of an applicative head, as shown in
(i). This, for example, is the analysis argued for by Landau (1999) for Hebrew
and Lee-Schoenfeld (2006) for German. Pylkkänen (2008), on the other hand,
argues against such a possessor raising analysis, and treats “raised” possessors
as specifiers of low applicative heads, as shown in (ii). The choice between the
two types of account is not crucial for our purposes here.
47 My judgment here differs from Dziwirek’s (1994), who deems the following
examples to be ungrammatical:
(i) *Szybko wysłało mi się Ewie paczkę.
quickly send. me.DAT refl Eve.DAT package.acc
‘I sent Eve the package quickly.’
(ii) *Jankowi z trudem wytłumaczyło się Ewie ten
John.DAT with difficulty explain.perf refl Eve.DAT this
problem.
problem.acc
‘John explained this problem to Eve with difficulty.’ (Dziwirek 1994:64)
These are only slightly marginal, and their marginality has to do with the epi-
sodic nature of the predicates involved. If the examples in (i–ii) are made more
generic, by replacing perfective verbs with imperfective ones or by making the
object plural, the results become fully grammatical:
′ ′
′
′
′
238 Notes to pages 153–4
(iii) Łatwo wysyła mi się Ewie paczki.
easily send.imperf me.DAT refl Eve.DAT packages.acc
‘It is easy for me to send Eve packages.’
(iv) Jankowi z trudem tłumaczyło się Ewie ten problem.
John.DAT with difficulty explain.imperf refl Eve.DAT this problem.acc
‘John explained this problem to Eve with difficulty.’
48 Rivero (2009), however, argues against a bi-clausal analysis, and proposes
instead the following structure for the involuntary state construction:
(i) [ApplP
NPDAT
[Appl’
Appl [TP
Tense [AspP
IMPOP
[vP
v VP] ] ] ] ]
49 There is a fair amount of crosslinguistic variation with respect to this restric-
tion. Abraham (2006) notes that German disallows sequences of two datives or
two genitives. However, he also notes that ethical datives constitute an excep-
tion to this generalization, as shown in (i).
(i) Sie hilft mir ihr. German
she helps medat:ethical
herdat:benefactive
‘I can’t believe it, she helps her!’ (Abraham 2006:11)
Japanese allows two datives, as shown in (ii). However, this could be due to the
fact that the dative particle ni in Japanese is ambiguous between a preposition
and a dative marker.
(ii) Taroo-ga Hanako-ni Tokyo-ni nimotu-o okutta. Japanese
Taro.nom Hanako.DAT Tokyo-to package.acc sent
‘Taro sent Hanako a package to Tokyo.’
(Miyagawa and Tsujioka 2004:9)
Thus, it could be the prepositional status of one of the alleged dative markers
that is responsible for the grammaticality of (i) in Japanese. This, however,
is not going to generalize to other languages that allow multiple datives, in
which there is no evidence whatsoever for the prepositional status of the dative
marker. Croatian, for example, is such a language.
(iii) Vid je Danu poslao knjigu Hani. Croatian
Vid aux Dan.dat sent book.acc Hana.dat
‘Vid sent Dan the book to Hana (to Hana’s place).
(Gračanin-Yüksek 2006)
The issue of why some languages allow multiple datives and others do not is a
very interesting one, but it is not an issue that I will be able to solve here.
50 The only recursion structure that is banned involves a low applicative phrase
embedded under another low applicative phrase. This is because a low applica-
tive head relates two individuals, which in structural terms means that it requires
an individual denoting expression in both its specifier and its complement. It
thus would not allow another applicative phrase in its complement position.
51 The analysis presented in this section is a revision and expansion of the analysis
first presented in Citko (2009).
Notes to pages 154–67 239
52 I take the terms “quirky” and “inherent” case to refer to the same phenomenon.
Woolford (2006) argues for a three-way division in the case system, between
inherent, lexical and structural cases. Both inherent and lexical cases are theta-
related and thus not structural. Lexical cases are restricted to internal argu-
ments, whereas inherent case is the case of goals and external arguments.
53 The idea that dative indirect object undergoes movement is also behind the
dative shift accounts of double object constructions. For Larson (1988), the
indirect object undergoes “passive-like” movement to the specifier of VP. For
Baker (1997), the indirect object moves to the specifier of an Aspect head.
What distinguishes the present proposal is that the dative indirect object does
not cross the accusative direct object.
54 The structure in (146b) follows Pylkkänen’s analysis of possessor raising struc-
tures as low applicatives.
5 Symmetric labels
1 The question that arises here is whether the asymmetry illustrated in (1a–b)
shows that labels are asymmetric or that Merge itself is asymmetric. The evi-
dence for symmetric labels I present in this chapter is different in nature from
the evidence for symmetric Merge I presented in Chapter 3, which suggests
that the existence of symmetric Merge is in principle distinct from the exist-
ence of symmetric labels. See, however, Boeckx (2008) for claims that Merge
with no labels is a symmetric operation and that labels are necessary to make
symmetric Merge structures interpretable.
2 Logically speaking, there exists a possibility of neither α nor β projecting and
the resulting object nevertheless having a label (some element that is neither
α nor β). Such “third-party” labels, however, would violate the Inclusiveness
Condition, which bans the introduction of new elements in the course of the
derivation.
3 There is another variant of (2a). The label, instead of being a set consisting of α
and β, could be an ordered pair consisting of α and β, as shown in (i). I examine
both types of labels in this chapter, as both are symmetric in the requisite sense.
(i) Merge α and β, project both
<α, β>
α β
4 This requires the assumption that all v heads (not just transitive and unergative
ones) are phase heads. See Legate (2003) for arguments in favor of this claim.
Marantz (to appear) also addresses this point.
5 As noted by Collins (2002), in a system without labels, the notion of a maximal
projection can be straightforwardly replaced with the notion of a saturated
constituent. However, the calculation of which elements are saturated requires
a lot of backtracking and thus an increase in computational power.
6 The minimality condition in (12) needs to be extended to functional categories
240 Notes to pages 167–71
in order to capture selection by functional heads as well as intervention effects
caused by functional categories. It is, however, not clear whether functional
categories participate in the same kinds of selection relationships as lexical cat-
egories, or form extended projections in the sense of Grimshaw (1991/2005)
instead.
7 Collins (2002) also discusses the relationship between labels and derivational
loci. Superficially, the two look very much alike. However, there are two non-
trivial differences between them. One concerns the fact that there can only
be one locus at a given time, but there are multiple labels. Second, the locus
changes throughout the derivation but the label stays the same, at least on
standard minimalist assumptions about labels. However, there are reasons to
believe that under certain (very restricted) circumstances labels can also change
throughout the derivation. I discuss one such mechanism shortly, the reprojec-
tion mechanism of Hornstein and Uriagereka (2002).
8 I do not mean to trivialize the issues surrounding pied-piping here. I simply
assume its existence, following what strikes me as a general consensus in the
field. For a recent discussion of the status of pied-piping in the grammar, see
Cable (2007) and Heck (2008, 2009).
9 There are two potential issues that reprojection might raise, which Hornstein
and Uriagereka recognize. First, after reprojection the movement chain is non-
uniform in that its head is an intermediate projection and its tail a maximal one.
Second, the checking relationships are altered by reprojection; XP is the speci-
fier of Y before reprojection, and YP becomes the specifier of X after repro-
jection. According to Hornstein and Uriagereka, this is not a problem, since
reprojection is possible only at LF, after all the chain- and feature-checking
configurations have been evaluated. More concretely, they assume that “chains
[…, B.C] are read by the interfaces prior to their becoming either nonuniform
or improper” (Hornstein and Uriagereka 2002:108).
10 Hornstein and Uriagereka (2002) argue that reprojection applies only to asym-
metric quantifiers. The difference between symmetric and asymmetric quanti-
fiers lies in whether the following equivalence holds.
(i) Det X are Y Ù Det Y are X
According to this diagnostic, the quantifier/determiner some is symmetric
because (iia) and (iib) are truth-conditionally equivalent. The quantifier most,
on the other hand, is not symmetric, since (iiia) and (iiib) are not equivalent in
the same sense.
(ii) a. Some Basques are Spaniards.
b. Some Spaniards are Basques.
(iii) a. Most Basques are Spaniards.
b. Most Spaniards are Basques. (Hornstein and Uriagereka 2002:111)
11 Crucially, reprojection can only apply at LF, after Spell-Out. If it happened
before Spell-Out, the structure in (22b) above would be incorrectly linear-
ized by the LCA as Love children most people, since the IP love children asym-
Notes to pages 171–2 241
metrically c-commands the quantifier most and the NP people. Furthermore,
Hornstein and Uriagereka (2002) show that treating reprojection as a covert
operation can account for the so-called quantifier-induced intervention effects
illustrated below.
(i) *Nobody gave most children a red cent.
(ii) Whati
did nobody give most children ti
?
(Hornstein and Uriagereka 2002:110)
In (i) the quantifier most children intervenes between the negative polarity
item a red cent and its licensor nobody. Interestingly, as shown in (ii), the same
element (namely most children) does not intervene for the relationship between
what and its trace. This contrast follows nicely from the assumption that what-
ever configuration is responsible for the ungrammaticality of (i) arises only at
LF, after reprojection takes place. Hornstein and Uriagereka do not go into
the specifics of how reprojection works in this case; presumably (i) ends up with
the structure in (iii), assuming that QR targets VP (or vP on current assump-
tions). The negpol a red cent is buried inside the specifier of Q, which suggests
that whatever factors are responsible for specifiers being islands are also at play
here.
12 Taraldsen (2002) also points out some problems with the idea that qui in
French is an agreeing complementizer. First, qui lacks the properties typically
associated with agreeing complementizers. For example, it lacks the person/
number/gender features that we find in Germanic agreeing complementizers.
Second, it only “agrees” with the subject, not any phrase in its specifier.
13 In Citko (2008b), I argued that all these labels are in fact possible. My goal
here is more modest – to provide evidence in favor of one of the two sym-
metric options, the one given in (27c). For now, suffice it to say that capturing
the variation illustrated in (27a–d) would be impossible in a grammar with no
labels.
′
′
′
′
242 Notes to pages 172–7
14 The issue arises with even more vengeance in a system without labels, as is
recognized by Collins (2002). The only type of adjunction that might be ame-
nable to a bare phrase structure analysis would be adjunction to categories
that are simultaneously non-minimal and non-maximal. A schematic repre-
sentation of such a case is given in (i), y’s mother and sister are the same in
terms of their phrase-theoretical status (determined relationally); both are
non-minimal and non-maximal. This, however, is not going to work for all
cases of adjunction.
15 An issue that I will not address here is whether distinguishing adjuncts from
non-adjuncts solely in terms of labels is sufficient to capture all the properties
of adjuncts, such as ordering or co-occurrence restrictions of the kind discussed
by Alexiadou (1997), Cinque (1999) and Ernst (2002), among many others.
16 See, however, Jackendoff and Pinker (2005) for a dissenting view.
17 The feature structures in (38a–f) depart slightly from Pereltsvaig’s structures,
as hers also include a third optional feature (+/−H). Here I stick to two (con-
flicting) features.
18 Baker and Stewart (1999) (see also Pereltsvaig 2008) argue that “doubly-headed
phrases emerge as a natural possibility in the Minimalist Program when (and
only when) the two phrases combined by Merge are identical or nearly identi-
cal in syntactic features” (Baker and Stewart 1999:5). An anonymous reviewer
also brings to my attention some pre-minimalist precursors of the symmetric
Labeling argued for here. For example, Haider’s (1988) matching projections
could be thought of as doubly headed (or symmetrically labeled) constituents.
His definition of a matching projection is given in (i).
(i) A matching projection is a projection superimposed on an existing pro-
jection such that the nodes of the primary projection serve as secondary
nodes of the superimposed projection. (Haider 1988:112)
Matching projections are subject to a similar identity requirement; a given
head can serve as a secondary head only if its features are consistent with the
features of the primary head. In (ii), for example, z and x cannot have opposite
values.
(Haider 1988:113)
′ ′
Notes to pages 178–87 243
The idea of co-projection is also found in the discussion of extended projec-
tions. Bayer, Schmid and Bader (2005), for example, allow features of func-
tional heads to co-project with features of lexical heads (as is also suggested in
Citko (2008b)).
19 Baker and Stewart (1999) distinguish between vPs and VoicePs (and assume
that the subjects are base-generated as specifiers of VoiceP (rather than vP),
whereas most researchers conflate the two. In their analysis, a voice head
selects an external argument, and a v head encodes cause (and is thus absent in
unaccusatives).
20 Note that the symmetry we see in Edo serial verb constructions is different
from the symmetry we saw in Dàgááré serial verbs, discussed in Chapter 3.
21 In principle, there are two independent ways a small clause can be symmet-
ric: by virtue of involving two elements (i.e. the subject and the predicate) that
c-command each other, or by virtue of being symmetrically labeled. Here, I
focus on the latter option, and refer the reader to Citko (2008a) for a discussion
of the former.
22 It is not clear how Moro’s condition stated in (57) can be reconciled with Baker
and Stewart’s (1999) idea that doubly headed constituents are possible only if
some higher head does not attract either of the two heads. Conceptually, the
two are alike in that they place certain restrictions on doubly headed (or non-
headed) structures. However, the restrictions they place are opposites of each
other; for Baker and Stewart, neither Goal can move in a configuration like
(57a), whereas for Moro, one of the two Goals has to move. I leave the issue of
how to reconcile the two for future research.
23 (57b) rules out cases if which the Goal moves to a position in which it
c-commands the Probe.
24 Such an analysis is also in principle compatible with a functional head mediat-
ing the relationship between the two DPs, as long as this functional head itself
does not contribute any features to the identity of the label. In Citko (2008a), I
took this functional projection to be defective in the requisite sense.
25 My goal in Citko 2008b was not to argue for symmetric labels but to look at
all the logically possible labeling possibilities and argue that all of them are in
fact attested. The labeling options I argued for in Internal Merge structures are
listed in (i), and the ones I argued for in Internal Merge (Move) structures are
listed in (ii). I refer the interested reader to that paper for details.
(i) a. Project α or β (standard option) labels in External Merge structures
b. Project Both (comparative correlatives, extended projections)
c. Project None (last instance of External Merge)
(ii) a. Project Probe (standard option) labels in Internal Merge structures
b. Project Goal (free relatives)
c. Project Both Probe and Goal (head movement)
26 Bhatt (2003) argues that the correlative CP, instead of being generated in an IP
adjoined position (and binding the demonstrative), starts out adjoined to the
demonstrative and moves to the IP adjoined position. Nothing in what follows
hinges on this assumption.
244 Notes to pages 188–92
27 Brasoveanu (2008), based on Romanian data, takes issue with this intuition,
and argues that not all comparative correlatives are conditional. An example
of such a non-conditional comparative correlative is given in (i) below. He
refers to such correlatives as equative correlatives, as they equate two degrees
or amounts. In (i), for example, what is equated is the amount by which the
brother is taller than the sister and the amount by which the father is taller
than the mother. It is not clear to me, however, whether these are comparative
correlatives, rather than standard correlatives in which what is relativized is a
degree (rather than an individual).
(i) Cu cît e mai înalt fratele decît sora, Romanian
with how much is more tall brother.the than sister.the,
(tot) cu atît e mai înalt tatăl decît mama.
(also) with that much is more tall father.the than mother.the
‘The brother is taller than the sister by a certain amount and the father
is taller than the mother by the same amount.’
Its Polish counterpart (somewhat simplified in insignificant ways) is given in
(ii). The reason why this is a standard correlative is that it does not involve the
correlative pronoun strategy im tym; instead, it involves the same combination
of relative and demonstrative pronouns that are used in standard correlatives,
as shown by the parallelism between (ii) and (iii).
(ii) O ile Jan jest wyższy od Marii, o tyle Polish
by how.much Jan is taller than Maria by that.much
Ewa jest niższa od Zosii.
Ewa is shorter than Zosia
‘Jan is taller than Maria by the same amount that Ewa is shorter than
Zosia.’
(iii) Ile Jan waży, tyle Maria waży.
how.much Jan weighs that.much Maria weighs
‘Jan weighs as much as Maria weighs.’
28 Beck (1997) focuses on German but this seems to be a plausible way to extend
her analysis to English.
29 In Citko (2008b), I did not discuss ATB-style extraction from standard correla-
tives. I include it here for the sake of completeness.
30 (76a) requires a pause after the wh-pronoun co ‘what’. Otherwise the result is
a garden path effect, due to a sequence of two wh-pronouns, which is what we
find in run-of-the-mill multiple wh-questions:
(i) Co kto lubi?
what who likes
‘Who likes whom?’
31 One could argue that the grammaticality of the examples in (77a–b) is due to
the fact that one of the clauses contains a pronoun which is coreferential with
the gap inside the other clause. This could suggest that a resumptive pronoun
Notes to pages 194–200 245
strategy is at play. However, we find the same pattern if neither clause contains
a (potentially resumptive) pronoun. This is shown in (i–ii) for Polish. Culicover
and Jackendoff (1999) make a similar point based on English data.
(i) ? Komui
myślisz, że im więcej zarobisz, tym bardziej
who.dat think.2sg that the more earn.2sg the more
zaimponujesz ti
?
impress.2sg
‘Who do you think that the more you earn the more you will impress?’
(ii) Komui
myślisz, że im więcej zaimponujesz ti
, tym
who.dat think.2sg that the more impress.2sg the
więcej zarobisz?
more earn.2sg
‘Who do you think that the more you impress the more you will earn?’
If anything, extraction from the first clause (the adjunct clause) is slightly
better, which is the opposite of what we would expect.
32 I depart from Culicover and Jackendoff (1999) (see also Borsley 2004 and
Abeillé and Borsley 2008), who suggest that such unique and idiosyncratic
properties of comparative correlatives are a problem for “mainstream gen-
erative” accounts of these constructions. I hope to convince the reader of
something quite the opposite; it is precisely the “mainstream generative”
assumptions (more specifically, the minimalist view of phrase structure and
labeling) that allow us to capture the properties of the comparative correlatives
under consideration here.
33 An independent reason why the example in (85a) is ungrammatical involves
case matching. The verb powiedzieć‘tell’ requires a dative complement, whereas
the verb odwiedzić ‘visit’ requires an accusative one. A dative pronoun cannot
satisfy the case requirements of both verbs (and neither can a genitive one).
However, (85b) involves no case mismatch; both gaps involve adnominal
genitive positions.
34 Kapetangianni and Taylor (2007) also observe that focus movement from
comparative correlatives yields different results. In particular, it is ungrammat-
ical from either clause. They attribute it to the fact that focused elements and
compared phrases in comparative correlatives move to the same position (the
specifier of a Focus Phrase).
35 The element glossed as te is a Dutch syncategorematic element.
36 On Den Dikken’s assumptions, the fronted comparative creates a wh-island.
The comparative fronting in the first clause is obligatory, which explains why
movement from the first clause is never possible.
37 Some languages are included in more than one group; this means that they
allow more than one extraction pattern. Blank spaces mean that the sources
cited did not include the relevant data.
38 There is, however, one potential problem with the structure in (97a) for stand-
ard correlatives in Slavic languages. Izvorski (1997) shows that Slavic correla-
tive pronouns (or phrases) undergo fronting to a clause-initial position, which
246 Notes to pages 201–5
she takes to be the specifier of CP. The relevant data from Polish (Izvorski’s
own examples are from Russian and Bulgarian) are given in (i–ii). The contrast
between these two examples shows that the correlate cannot stay in situ.
(i) Kogoi
lubimy ti
, tegoi
zaprosimy ti
.
who.acc like.1pl this.acc invite.1pl
‘We will invite who we like.’
(ii) * Kogoi
lubimy ti
, zaprosimy tego.
who.acc like.1pl invite.1pl this.acc
‘We will invite who we like.’
Furthermore, the ungrammaticality of (iii) below shows that the ungrammati-
cality in (ii) cannot be due to some kind of a parallelism requirement, which
would require the wh-pronoun inside the relative clause and the correlative
pronoun inside the matrix clause to occupy analogous positions. In (iii) both
remain in situ, but the result is nevertheless ungrammatical:
(iii) *Lubimy kogo, zaprosimy tego.
like who.acc invite this.acc
‘We will invite who we like.’
This, however, does not necessarily imply that both the relative and the matrix
clause have to be CPs; it merely shows that the matrix clause in Slavic cor-
relatives has to be larger than a TP in order to accommodate the fronted wh-
pronoun.
39 Chomsky (2004), for example, suggests that the process in question is SIMPL,
which transforms a symmetric Pair Merge structure into an asymmet-
ric Set Merge one. Admittedly, the details of this process remain somewhat
mysterious.
40 A reader will think of exceptions to the Coordinate Structure Constraint. The
grammatical cases of extraction from comparative correlatives, however, do
not have a similar flavor.
41 I depart from them in that I do not assume that movement proceeds in a suc-
cessive cyclic fashion from the specifier of the embedded vP directly to the
specifier of the matrix vP, skipping the specifier of the embedded CP. This may
be motivated for Austronesian languages such as Tagalog (which is the main
focus of their paper) but seems problematic for Irish or dialects of German,
which provide direct evidence in the form of complementizer agreement that
movement has to proceed through the specifier of CP.
42 As mentioned in note 41, in Rackowski and Richards’ original account, the
wh-phrase moves from the specifier of the embedded vP directly to the speci-
fier of the matrix vP. Relying on the Principle of Minimal Compliance, they
allow the matrix v to skip the CP layer and undergo Agree with the next
closest phase, the embedded vP. Now the specifier of vP and the entire vP are
also equidistant from any higher Probe, which is what allows the wh-phrase to
move.
43 This structure departs slightly from the structure I proposed in Citko (2008b),
Notes to page 205 247
where I took the label of adjunction structures to be a simple object (not an
ordered pair).
44 Nothing changes if the relative clause (marked as CP1
in (110a–b) is adjoined
to TP instead. Such a derivation would be identical to the one schematized in
(109b).
45 There is another symmetric pattern to consider, involving languages in which
wh-movement is impossible out of either clause in comparative correlatives.
This is Type II in (94), which is what we see (under certain circumstances) in
Hungarian, German and Dutch. I can only offer a suggestion at this point that
in such languages Agree is only possible with “simple” objects. In other words,
there is something that blocks Agree with a symmetrically labeled constituent.
In the absence of such an Agree relationship, movement out of either CP is
blocked.
248
References
Abe, Jun and Hoshi, Hiroto 1999. “Directionality of movement in ellipsis resolu-
tion in English and Japanese,” in Lappin and Benmamoun (eds.), pp. 193–
226.
Abbott, Barbara 1976. “Right node raising as a test for constituenthood,”
Linguistic Inquiry 7:639–42.
Abeillé, Anne and Borsley, Robert D. 2008. “Comparative correlatives and para-
meters,” Lingua 118:1139–57.
Abeillé, Anne, Borsley, Robert D. and Espinal, Maria-Teresa 2006. “The syntax
of comparative correlatives in French and Spanish,” in Müller (ed.), pp.
6–26.
Abels, Klaus 2003. “Successive cyclicity, anti-locality and adposition stranding,”
PhD thesis, University of Connecticut, Storrs.
2004. “Right node raising: ellipsis or across the board movement?”, in Moulton
and Wolf (eds.), pp. 45–59.
Abney, Steven 1987. “The English noun phrase in its sentential aspect,” PhD
thesis, MIT, Cambridge, MA.
Abraham, Werner 2006. “Introduction. Datives: structural vs. inherent – abstract
vs. morphological – autonomous vs. combinatory – universally vs. language-
specifically configured?”, in Hole, Abraham and Meinunger (eds.), pp. 3–46.
Ackema, Peter and Čamdžić, Amela 2003. “LF complex predicate formation:
the case of participle fronting in Serbo-Croatian,” UCL Working Papers in
Linguistics 15:131–75.
Adger, David 2003. Core Syntax. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Adger, David and Ramchand, Gillian 2003. “Predication and equation,” Linguistic
Inquiry 34:325–60.
Adger, David, de Cat, Cécile and Tsoulas, George (eds.) 2004. Peripheries:
Syntactic Edges and Their Effects. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y. and Dixon, Robert M. W. 2007. Serial Verb
Constructions – A Cross-Linguistic Typology. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Akatsuka, Noriko and Strauss, Susan (eds.) 2002. Japanese/Korean Linguistics 10.
Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Alderete, John, Han, Chung-hye and Kochetov, Alexei (eds.) 2005. Proceedings
of the 24th West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics. Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Press.
References 249
Alexiadou, Artemis 1997. Adverb Placement: A Case Study in Antisymmetric
Syntax. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing Company.
Alsina, Alex and Mchombo, Sam A. 1993. “Object asymmetries and the Chichewa
applicative construction,” in Mchombo (ed.), pp. 17–45.
An, Duk-Ho 2007. “Syntax at the PF interface: prosodic mapping, linear order,
and deletion,” PhD thesis, University of Connecticut, Storrs.
Anagnostopoulou, Elena 2003. The Syntax of Ditransitives: Evidence from Clitics.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Anderson, Stephen R. and Kiparsky, Paul (eds.) 1973. A Festschrift for Morris
Halle. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.
Andronis, Mary, Ball, Christopher, Elston, Heidi and Neuvel, Sylvain (eds.)
2001. Chicago Linguistic Society: The Main Session 37–1. Chicago: Chicago
University Press.
Aoun, Joseph and Li, Yen-hui Audrey 1989. “Constituency and scope,” Linguistic
Inquiry 20:141–72.
Arnaudova, Olga, Browne, Wayles, Rivero, Maria Luisa and Stojanovic, Danijela
(eds.) 2004. Formal Approaches to Slavic Linguistics # 12: The Ottawa
Meeting. Ann Arbor, MI: Michigan Slavic Publications.
Bach, Emmon, Jelinek, Eloise, Kratzer, Angelika and Partee, Barbara H. (eds.)
1996. Quantification in Natural Languages, Studies in Linguistics and
Philosophy 54. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Bachrach, Asaf and Katzir, Roni 2009. “Right-node raising and delayed Spellout,”
in Grohmann (ed.), pp. 283–316.
Bailyn, John 1995. “A configurational approach to Russian ‘free’ word order,”
PhD thesis, Cornell University.
2001. “The syntax of Slavic predicate case,” in Jäger et al. (eds.), pp. 1–23.
in press. “What”s inside VP? New (and old) evidence from Russian,” Formal
Approaches to Slavic Linguistics # 18: The Cornell Meeting.
Bailyn, John and Citko, Barbara 1999. “Case and agreement in Slavic predicates,”
in Dziwirek, Coats and Vakareliyska (eds.), pp. 17–39.
Baker, Mark 1985. “The mirror principle and morphosyntactic explanation,”
Linguistic Inquiry 16:373–415.
1988. “Theta theory and the syntax of applicative constructions in Chichewa,”
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 6:353–89.
1989. “Object sharing and projection in serial verb constructions,” Linguistic
Inquiry 20:513–53.
1996. The Polysynthesis Parameter. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
1997. “Thematic roles and syntactic structure,” in Haegeman (ed.), pp.
73–137.
2008. “The macroparameter in a microparametric world,” in Biberauer (ed.),
pp. 351–73.
Baker, Mark C. and Stewart, Osamuyimen T. 1999. “On double-headedness and
the anatomy of the clause,” manuscript, Rutgers University.
Baker, Mark C., Johnson, Kyle and Roberts, Ian 1989. “Passive arguments
raised,” Linguistic Inquiry 20:219–51.
250 References
Baltin, Mark and Postal, Paul M. 1996. “More on the reanalysis hypothesis,”
Linguistic Inquiry 27:127–45.
Barss, Andrew 2000. “Minimalism and asymmetric wh-interpretation,” in Martin,
Michaels and Uriagereka (eds.), pp. 31–52.
Barss, Andrew and Lasnik, Howard 1986. “A note on anaphora and double
objects,” Linguistic Inquiry 17:347–54.
Bayer, Josef, Schmid, Tanja and Bader, Markus 2005. “Clause union and clausal
position,” in Den Dikken and Tortora (eds.) pp. 79–113.
Beck, Sigrid 1997. “On the semantics of comparative conditionals,” Linguistics and
Philosophy 20:229–71.
Beck, Sigrid and Johnson, Kyle 2004. “Double objects again,” Linguistic Inquiry
35:97–123.
Belletti,Adriana(ed.)2004.StructuresandBeyond.Oxford:OxfordUniversityPress.
Belletti, Adriana, Brandi, Luciana and Rizzi, Luigi (eds.) 1981. Theory of
Markedness in Generative Grammar. Pisa: Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa.
Bernstein, Judy 1993. “Topics in the syntax of nominal structure across Romance,”
PhD thesis, City University of New York, New York.
Bhatt, Rajesh 2002. “The raising analysis of relative clauses: evidence from adjecti-
val modification,” Natural Language Semantics 10:43–90.
2003 “The locality in correlativization,” Natural Language and Linguistic Theory
21:485–541.
Biberauer, Theresa (ed.) 2008. The Limits of Syntactic Variation. Amsterdam/
Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing Company.
Biberauer, Theresa and Roberts, Ian (eds.) In press. Principles of Linearization.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Bierwisch, Manfred and Heidolph, Karl Erich (eds.) 1970. Progress in Linguistics.
The Hague: Mouton.
Billerey, Roger and Lillehaugen, Brook Danielle (eds.) 2000. Proceedings of
the 19th West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics. Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Press.
Bird, Sonya, Carnie, Andrew, Haugen, Jason D. and Norquest, Peter (eds.)
1999. Proceedings of the 18th West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics.
Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
Blaho, Sylvia, Vicente, Luis and de Vos, Mark (eds.) 2004. Proceedings of
CONSOLE XII. Leiden University.
Blevins, James 1990. “Syntactic complexity: evidence for discontinuity and multi-
domination,” PhD thesis, University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Bobaljik, Jonathan 1995. “Morphosyntax: the syntax of verbal inflection,” PhD
thesis, MIT.
Boeckx, Cedric 1999. “Conflicting c-command requirements,” Studia Linguistica
53:227–50.
2006. Minimalist Essays. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing
Company.
2008. Bare Syntax. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
2009. “The locus of asymmetry in UG,” Catalan Journal of Linguistics 8:41–53.
References 251
(ed.) In press. Oxford Handbook of Minimalist Syntax. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Boeckx, Cedric and Grohmann, Kleanthes 2004. “Sub-move: Towards a unified
account of scrambling and D-Linking,” in Adger, de Cat and Tsoulas (eds.),
pp. 341–57.
Boeckx, Cedric and Piattelli-Palmarini, Massimo 2005. “Language as a
natural object, linguistics as a natural science,” The Linguistic Review
22:447–466.
Borer, Hagit 1984. Parametric Syntax: Case Studies in Semitic and Romance
Languages. Dordrecht: Foris Publications.
(ed.) 1986. Syntax and Semantics 19: The Syntax of Pronominal Clitics. New
York: Academic Press.
2005. Structuring Sense: Volumes I and II. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Borsley, Robert D. 1983. “A note on the Generalized Left Branch Condition,”
Linguistic Inquiry 14:169–74.
2004. “On the periphery: comparative correlatives in Polish and English,” in
Arnaudova, Browne, Rivero and Stojanovic (eds.) pp. 59–90.
Bošković, Željko 2001. On the Nature of the Syntax–Phonology Interface.
Amsterdam: North-Holland.
2002. “On multiple wh-fronting,” Linguistic Inquiry 33:351–84.
Bošković, Željko and Franks, Steven 2000. “Across-the-board movement and
LF,” Syntax 3:107–28.
Bošković, Željko and Lasnik, Howard 2003. “On the distribution of null
complementizers,” Linguistic Inquiry 34:527–46.
Bošković, Željko and Takahashi, Daiko 1998. “Scrambling and last resort,”
Linguistic Inquiry 29:347–66.
Bowers, John. 1993. “The syntax of predication,” Linguistic Inquiry 24:591–656.
Brasoveanu, Adrian 2008. “Comparative and equative correlatives as anaphora
to differentials,” Proceedings of SALT XVIII, downloadable at http://hdl.
handle.net/1813/13030.
Bresnan, Joan, and Grimshaw, Jane 1978. “The syntax of free relatives in English,”
Linguistic Inquiry 9:331–91.
Brody, Michael 2006. “Syntax and symmetry,” manuscript, downloadable at
http://ling.auf.net/lingBuzz/000260.
Browne, Wayles 1972. “Conjoined questions and the limitation on English surface
structure,” Linguistic Inquiry 3:223–6.
Bruening, Benjamin 2001. “QR obeys superiority: frozen scope and ACD,”
Linguistic Inquiry 32:233–73.
Bunting, Jacqueline, Desai, Sapna, Peachey, Robert, Straughn, Christopher and
Tomková, Zuzana (eds.) 2006. Proceedings from the 42nd Annual Meeting of
the Chicago Linguistic Society – Main Session. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic
Society.
Burelle, Sophie and Somesfalean, Stanca (eds.) 2003. Proceedings of the 2003
Annual Conference of the Canadian Linguistic Association. Montréal:
Université de Québec.
252 References
Bury, Dirk 2003 “Phrase structure and derived heads,” PhD thesis, University
College London.
Cable, Seth 2007. “The grammar of Q: Q-particles and the nature of wh-fronting,
as revealed by the wh-questions of Tlingit,” PhD thesis, MIT.
Camacho, José 1997. “The syntax of NP conjunction,” PhD thesis, University of
Southern California.
2003. The Structure of Coordination. Conjunction and Agreement Phenomena in
Spanish and Other Languages. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Caponigro, Ivano 2003. “Free not to ask: On the semantics of free relatives and
wh-words cross-linguistically,” PhD thesis, University of California, Los
Angeles.
Cardinaletti, Anna, Cinque, Guglielmo and Giusti, Giuliana (eds.) 1988. Constituent
Structure: Papers from the 1987 GLOW Conference. Dordrecht, Foris.
Carnie, Andrew 2008. Constituent Structure. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Carter, Julie, Dechaine, Rose-Marie et al. (eds.) 1986. Proceedings of the 20th
Northeastern Linguistic Society. Amherst, MA: GLSA Publications.
Chang , Charles B. and Haynie, Hannah J. et al. (eds.) 2008. Proceedings of the 26th
West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla
Proceedings Project.
Chen-Main, Joan 2006. “On the generation and linearization of multi-dominance
structures,” PhD thesis, Johns Hopkins University.
Cheng, Lisa and Corver, Norbert (eds.) 2006. Wh-Movement. Moving on.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Cheng, Lisa and Sybesma, Rint (eds.) 2003. The Second GLOT International State-
of-the-Article Book. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Cho, Sungeun and Zhou, Xuan 2002. “The interpretations of wh-elements in
conjoined wh-questions,” in Akatsuka and Strauss (eds.), pp. 522–31.
Chomsky, Noam 1970. “Remarks on nominalization,” in Jacobs and Rosenbaum
(eds.), pp. 184–221.
1973. “Conditions on transformations,” in Anderson and Kiparsky (eds.), pp.
232–83
1975. Reflections on Language. New York: Pantheon Books.
1994. “Bare phrase structure,” in Webelhuth (ed.), pp. 383–439.
1995. The Minimalist Program. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
2000. “Minimalist inquiries: the framework,” in Martin, Michaels and
Uriagereka (eds.), pp. 89–155.
2001. “Derivation by phase,” in Hale and Keyser (eds.), pp. 1–52.
2004. “Beyond explanatory adequacy,” in Belletti (ed.), pp. 104–31.
2005. “Three factors in language design,” Linguistic Inquiry 36:1–22.
2008. “On phases,” in Freidin, Otero and Zubizaretta (eds.), pp. 133–66.
Chukerman, Amy, Marks, Mitchell and Richardson, John F. (eds.) 1983. Papers
from the 19th Regional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society. Chicago:
Chicago Linguistic Society.
Cinque, Gugliemo 1994. “On the evidence for partial N movement in the Romance
DP,” in Cinque, Koster, Pollock, Rizzi and Zanuttini (eds.), pp. 85–110.
References 253
1999. Adverbs and Functional Heads: A Cross-Linguistic Perspective. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
(ed.) 2002. Functional Structure in DP and IP: the Cartography of Syntactic
Structures. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Cinque, Guglielmo and Kayne, Richard (eds.) 2005. The Oxford Handbook of
Comparative Syntax. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Cinque, Gugliemo, Koster, Jan, Pollock, Jean-Yves, Rizzi, Luigi and Zanuttini,
Rafaela (eds.) 1994. Paths Towards Universal Grammar. Georgetown:
Georgetown University Press.
Citko, Barbara 1998. “An ATB account of free relatives and correlatives,” in
Gruber, Higgins, Olson and Wysocki (eds.), pp. 69–81.
2000. “Parallel merge and the syntax of free relatives,” PhD thesis, Stony Brook
University.
2002. “(Anti)reconstruction effects in free relatives: a new argument against the
comp account,” Linguistic Inquiry 33:507–11.
2003. “ATB wh-questions and the nature of Merge,” in Kadowaki and
Kawahara (eds.), pp. 87–102.
2005. “On the nature of Merge: External Merge, Internal Merge, and Parallel
Merge,” Linguistic Inquiry 36:475–97.
2006. “Copula sentences reconsidered,” in Lavine, Franks, Tasseva-Kurktchieva
and Filip (eds.), pp. 83–93.
2007. “Scope disambiguation strategies in ATB wh-questions,” Paper presented
at the 33rd Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society.
2008a. “Small clauses reconsidered: not so small and not all alike,” Lingua
118:261–95.
2008b. “Missing labels,” Lingua 118:907–44.
2009. “A ‘new’ look at symmetric and asymmetric passives,” Proceedings of the
39th North East Linguistics Society.
In press-a. “The puzzles of wh-questions with coordinated pronouns,” in
Biberauer and Roberts (eds.).
In press-b. “Multidominance,” in Boeckx (ed.).
Submitted. “A multidominant solution to the Merchant/Johnson paradox,” In
Uribe-Etxebarria and Valmala (eds.).
Citko, Barbara and Gračanin-Yüksek, Martina (submitted). “Towards a new
typology of wh-questions with coordinated wh-pronouns.”
Citko, Barbara and Grohmann, Kleanthes 2001. “On the non-uniqueness of mul-
tiple wh-fronting: German = Bulgarian,” in Franks, Holloway-King and
Yadroff (eds.), pp. 117–37.
Collins, Chris 1997a. Local Economy. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
1997b. “Argument sharing in serial verb constructions,” Linguistic Inquiry
28:461–97.
2002. “Eliminating labels,” in Epstein and Seely (eds.), pp. 42–64.
Compton, Richard, Goledzinowska, Magdalena and Savchenko, Ulyana (eds.)
2006. Formal Approaches to Slavic Linguistics # 15: The Toronto Meeting.
Ann Arbor, MI: Michigan Slavic Publications.
254 References
Comrie, Bernard and Stone, Gerald 1978. The Russian Language since the
Revolution. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Coppock, Elizabeth 2001. “Gapping: in defense of deletion,” in Andronis, Ball,
Elston and Neuvel (eds.), pp. 133–48.
Cuervo, Maria Cristina 2003a. “Datives at large,” PhD thesis, MIT.
2003b. “A control vs. raising theory of dative experiencers,” in Pérez-Leroux
and Roberge (eds.), pp. 111–30.
Culicover, Peter and Jackendoff, Ray 1999. “The view from the periphery,”
Linguistic Inquiry 30:543–71.
2005. Simpler Syntax. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Culicover, Peter and Postal, Paul (eds.) 2001. Parasitic Gaps. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Dąbrowska, Ewa 1997. Cognitive Semantics and the Polish Dative. Berlin: Mouton
de Gruyter.
Dayal, Veneeta 1996. “Quantification in correlatives,” in Bach, Jelinek, Kratzer
and Partee (eds.), pp. 179–205.
2002. “Single-pair versus multiple-pair answers: wh-in-situ and scope,”
Linguistic Inquiry 33:512–20.
2006. “Multiple wh-questions,” in Everaert and van Riemsdijk (eds.), pp. 275–
326.
De Vos, Mark and Vicente, Luis 2005. “Coordination under Right Node Raising,”
in Alderete, Han and Kochetov (eds.), pp. 97–104.
DeLancey, Scott and Tomlin, Russell (eds.) 1986. Papers from the First Pacific
Linguistic Conference. Eugene, OR: Dept of Linguistics.
Di Sciullo, Anna Maria 2002. Asymmetry in Grammar. Amsterdam/Philadelphia:
John Benjamins Publishing Company.
2005. Asymmetry in Morphology. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Dikken, Marcel den 1995. Particles: On the Syntax of Verb-Particle, Triadic and
Causative Constructions. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
2005. “Comparative correlatives comparatively,” Linguistic Inquiry 36:497–533.
2006. Relators and Linkers. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
2009. “Comparative correlatives and successive cyclicity,” in Lipták (ed.), pp.
263–306.
Dikken, Marcel den and Tortora, Christina (eds.) 2005. The Function of Function
Words and Functional Categories. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins
Publishing Company.
Dimitriadis, Alexis, Siegel, Laura, Surek-Clark, Clarissa and Williams, Alexander
(eds.) 1997. Proceedings of the 21st Annual Penn Linguistics Colloquium.
University of Pennsylvania Working Papers.
Doggett, Teal Bissell 2004. “All things being unequal: locality in movement,” PhD
thesis, MIT.
Donati, Valentina 2006. “On wh-head movement,” in Cheng and Corver (eds.),
pp. 21–46.
Dornisch, Ewa 1998. “Multiple wh-questions in Polish. The interactions between
wh-phrases and clitics,” PhD thesis, Cornell University.
References 255
Douglas-Brown, Denise 1996. “In search of syntactic symmetry: on the parallels
between clausal and nominal hierarchical structure,” PhD thesis, Univesity of
Durham, UK.
Dvořák, Věra. In press. “Ditransitive verbs in Czech,” Formal Approaches to Slavic
Linguistics # 18: The Cornell Meeting.
Dyakonova, Marina 2007. “Russian double object constructions,” ACLC Working
Papers 2(1):3–30.
2009. “A phase-based approach to Russian word order,” PhD thesis,
Netherlands Graduate School of Linguistics.
Dyła, Stefan 1984. “Across-the-board dependencies and case in Polish,” Linguistic
Inquiry 15:701–05.
Dziwirek, Katarzyna 1994. Polish Subjects. New York/London: Garland
Publishing.
2002. “A different kind of non-canonical case marking: the Slavic verb ‘to
teach’,” Slavic and East European Journal 46:319–47.
Dziwirek, Katarzyna, Coats, Herb and Vakareliyska, Cynthia (eds.) 1999. Formal
Approaches to Slavic Linguistics #7: The Seattle Meeting. Ann Arbor: MI:
Michigan Slavic Publications.
Embick, David and Noyer, Rolf 2001. “Movement operations after syntax,”
Linguistic Inquiry 32:555–95.
Emonds, Joseph 1972. “Evidence that indirect object movement is a structure-pre-
serving rule,” Foundations of Language 8:546–61.
1976. A Transformational Approach to Syntax. New York: Academic Press.
Emonds, Joseph and Whitney, Rosemary 2006. “Double object constructions,” in
Everaert and van Riemsdijk (eds.), pp.73–145.
Epstein, Samuel and Seely, Daniel (eds.) 2002. Derivation and Explanation in the
Minimalist Program. Oxford: Blackwell.
Ernst, Thomas 2002. The Syntax of Adjuncts, Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Everaert, Martin and van Riemsdijk, Henk (eds.) 2006. The Blackwell Companion
to Syntax: Vols I–V. Malden/Oxford: Blackwell Publishing.
Fillmore, Charles 1965. Indirect Object Constructions in English and the Ordering of
Transformations. The Hague: Mouton.
Fitch, W. Tecumseh, Hauser, Marc, and Chomsky, Noam 2005. “The evolution
of the language faculty: clarifications and implications,” Cognition 97(2):179–
210.
Fowler, George 1996. “Oblique passivization in Russian,” Slavic and East
European Journal 40:519–45.
Fox, Danny and Nissenbaum, Jon 1999. “Extraposition and scope: a case for overt
QR,” in Bird, Carnie, Haugen, and Norquest (eds.), pp.132–44.
Frajzyngier, Zygmunt 1986. “Propositional characterization of categories,” in
DeLancey and Tomlin (eds.), pp. 108–19.
Franks, Steven 1993. “On parallelism in across-the-board dependencies,”
Linguistic Inquiry 4:509–29.
1995. Parameters of Slavic Morphosyntax. New York: Oxford University Press.
256 References
Franks, Steven, Holloway-King, Tracy and Yadroff, Michael (eds.) 2001. Formal
Approaches to Slavic Linguistics: The Bloomington Meeting 2000. Ann Arbor
MI: Michigan Slavic Publications.
Frascarelli, Mara (ed.) 2006. Phases of Interpretation. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Freidin, Robert (ed.) 1996. Current Issues in Comparative Grammar. Dordrecht:
Kluwer, Academic Publishers.
Freidin, Robert, Otero, Carlos and Zubizaretta, Maria-Luisa (eds.) 2008.
Foundational Issues in Linguistic Theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Gast, Volker 2005. “I gave it him – On the motivation of the ‘alternative double
object construction’ in English,” Paper presented at the Workshop on
Ditransitive Constructions, Padang, July 21, 2005.
2007. “I gave it him – On the motivation of the ‘alternative double object con-
struction’ in varieties of British English,” Functions of Language 14, 1:31–56.
Gawron, Mark and Kehler, Andrew 2003. “Respective answers to coordinated
questions,” Proceedings of the Thirteenth Conference on Semantics and
Linguistic Theory.
Georgopoulos, Carol and Ishihara, Roberta (eds.) 1991. Interdisciplinary
Approaches to Language. Essays in Honor of S. Y. Kuroda. Dordrecht: Kluwer
Academic Publishers.
Gerdts, Donna and McGinnis, Martha 2003. “A phase theoretic analysis of
Kinyarwanda multiple applicatives,” in Burelle and Somesfalean (eds.), pp.
154–65.
Giannakidou, Anastasia, and Merchant, Jason 1998. “Reverse sluicing in English
and Greek,” Linguistic Review 15:233–56.
Goodall, Grant 1983. “A three-dimensional analysis of coordination,” in
Chukerman, Marks and Richardson (eds.), pp. 146–54.
1987. Parallel Structures in Syntax. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Gračanin-Yüksek, Martina 2006. “Double object construction in Croatian: argu-
ments against Appl0
,” in Compton, Goledzinowska and Savchenko (eds.), pp.
94–112.
2007. “About sharing,” PhD thesis, MIT.
2008. “Free relatives in Croatian: arguments for the COMP Account,” Linguistic
Inquiry 39:275–94.
In press. “Linearizing multidominance structures,” in Biberauer and Roberts
(eds.)
Green, Georgia M. 1974. Semantics and Syntactic Regularity. Bloomington, IN:
Indiana University Press.
Gribanova, Vera 2009. “Structural adjacency and the typology of interrogative
interpretations,” Linguistic Inquiry 40:133–54.
Grimshaw, Jane 1991. “Extended projections,” manuscript, Brandeis University.
[Published as Grimshaw 2005. Words and Structure. CSLI Lecture Notes
Number 151, Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications].
Grohmann, Kleanthes 2003. Prolific Domains: On the Anti-locality of Movement
Dependencies. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing
Company.
References 257
(ed.) 2009. InterPhases: Phase-Theoretic Investigations of Linguistic Interfaces.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Groos, Anneke and van Riemsdijk, Henk 1981. “Matching effects in free relatives:
a parameter of core grammar,” in Belletti, Brandi and Rizzi (eds.), pp. 171–
216.
Grosu, Alexander 1994. Three Studies in Locality and Case, London: Routledge.
1996. “The proper analysis of ‘Missing-P’ free relative constructions,” Linguistic
Inquiry 27:257–93.
2003. “A unified theory of ‘standard’ and ‘transparent’ free relatives,” Natural
Language and Linguistic Theory 21:247–331.
Grosu, Alexander and Landman, Fred 1998. “Strange relatives of the third kind,”
Natural Language Semantics 6:125–70.
Grosz, Patrick 2009. “Movement and agreement in right-node raising construc-
tions,” unpublished manuscript, MIT.
Gruber, Catherine, Higgins, Derrick, Olson, Kenneth S. and Wysocki, Tamra
(eds.) 1998. Chicago Linguistic Society 34: The Main Session. Chicago, IL:
University of Chicago Press.
Guéron, Jacqueline and Lecarme, Jacqueline (eds.) 2004. The Syntax of Time.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Guimarães, Maximiliano 2000. “In defense of vacuous projections in bare phrase
structure,” in Guimarães, Meroni, Rodrigues and San Martin (eds.)
Guimarães, Maximiliano, Meroni, Luisa, Rodrigues, Cilene and San Martin,
Itziar (eds.) 2000. University of Maryland Working Papers in Linguistics 9.
College Park: University of Maryland Department of Linguistics.
Ha, Seungwan 2006. “Multiple dominance CAN’T, but ellipsis can account for
right node raising,” in Bunting, Desai, Peachey, Straughn, and Tomková
(eds.), pp. 17–31.
Haddican, William 2010. “Theme-goal ditransitives and theme passivisation in
British English dialects,” Lingua 120:2424–34.
Haegeman, Liliane (ed.) 1997. Elements of Grammar. Dordrecht: Kluwer
Academic Publishers.
Haegeman, Liliane and Lohndal, Terje 2010. “Negative concord and (multiple)
agree: a case study of west Flemish,” Linguistic Inquiry 41:181–211.
Hagstrom, Paul 1998. “Decomposing questions,” PhD thesis, MIT.
Haider, Hubert 1988. “Matching projections,” in Cardinaletti, Cinque and Giusti
(eds), pp. 101–23.
Hale, Ken 1983. “Warlpiri and the grammar of non-configurational languages,”
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 1:5–47.
1991. “Misumalpan verb sequencing constructions,” in Lefebvre (ed.), pp. 1–35.
Hale, Kenneth and Keyser, Samuel Jay (eds.) 2001. The View from Building 20.
Cambridge: MA: MIT Press.
Halle, Morris and Marantz, Alec 1993. “Distributed morphology and the pieces of
inflection,” in Hale and Keyser (eds.), pp. 111–76.
1994. “Some key features of distributed morphology,” MIT Working Papers in
Linguistics 21:275–88.
258 References
Hankamer, Jorge and Sag, Ivan 1976. “Deep and surface anaphora,” Linguistic
Inquiry 7:391–428.
Hannay, Mike and Steen, Gerard J. (eds.) 2007. Structural-Functional Studies in
English Grammar. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing
Company.
Harley, Heidi 2002. “Possession and the double object construction,” Linguistic
Variation Yearbook 2:29–68.
Harley, Heidi and Noyer, Rolf 2003. “Distributed morphology,” in Cheng and
Sybesma (eds.), pp. 463–96.
Hartmann, Katharina 2000. Right Node Raising and Gapping: Interface Conditions
on Prosodic Deletion. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing
Company.
Hauser, Mark, Chomsky, Noam and Fitch, Tecumseh 2002. “The faculty of lan-
guage: what is it, who has it, and how did it evolve?” Science 298:1569–79.
Heck, Fabian 2008. On Pied-piping: Wh-movement and Beyond. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
2009. “On certain properties of pied-piping,” Linguistic Inquiry 40:75–111.
Higginbotham, James and May, Robert 1981. “Questions, quantifiers, and cross-
ing,” The Linguistic Review 1:41–79.
Hiraiwa, Ken 2005. “Dimensions of symmetry in syntax: agreement and clausal
architecture,” PhD thesis, MIT.
Hiraiwa, Ken and Bodomo, Adams 2008. “Object-sharing as symmetric sharing:
evidence from Dagaare,” in Chang and Haynie (eds.), pp. 243–51.
Hoji, Hajime 1985. “Logical Form constraints and configurational structures in
Japanese,” PhD thesis, University of Washington.
Hole, Daniel P., Abraham, Werner and Meinunger, André (eds.) 2006. Datives and
Other Cases. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing Company.
Holmberg, Anders and Hróarsdóttir, Thorbjörg 2003. “Agreement and movement
in Icelandic raising constructions,” Lingua 113:997–1019.
Holmberg, Anders and Platzack, Christer 1995. The Role of Inflection in
Scandinavian Syntax. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Hornstein, Norbert 2009. A Theory of Syntax: Minimal Operations and Universal
Grammar. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hornstein, Norbert and Nunes, Jairo 2002. “On asymmetries between parasitic
gaps and across-the-board constructions,” Syntax 5:26–54.
2008. “Adjunction, labeling, and bare phrase structure,” Biolinguistics 2.1:57–
86.
Hornstein, Norbert and Uriagereka, Juan 2002. “Reprojections,” in Epstein and
Seely (eds.), pp. 106–32.
Hornstein, Norbert, Nunes, Jairo and Grohmann, Kleanthes 2005. Understanding
Minimalism. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Huang, James C.-T. 2005. “Syntactic analyticity and the other end of the param-
eter,” Lecture notes from the LSA Summer Institute.
Huber, Stefan 2007. “Comparative correlatives – the case of German,” Proceedings
of the 33th Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society.
References 259
Hudson, Richard 1992. “So-called ‘double objects’ and grammatical relations,”
Language 68:251–76.
Hughes, Arthur and Trudgill, Peter 1979. English Accents and Dialects: An
Introduction to the Social and Regional Varieties in the British Isles. London:
Arnold.
Ionin, Tania 2002. “The one girl who was kissed by every boy: scope, scrambling
and discourse function in Russian,” in van Koppen, Sio and de Vos (eds.), pp.
79–94.
Izvorski, Roumyana 1997. “The syntax and semantics of correlative proforms,” in
Kusumoto (ed.), pp. 133–47.
Jackendoff, Ray 1971. “Gapping and related rules,” Linguistic Inquiry 2:21–35.
Jackendoff, Ray and Pinker, Steven 2005. “The nature of the language faculty
and its implications for evolution of language (Reply to Fitch, Hauser, and
Chomsky),” Cognition 97:211–25.
Jacobs, Roderick A. and Rosenbaum, Peter S. (eds.) 1970. Readings in English
Transformational Grammar. Waltham, MA: Blaisdell Publishing.
Jacobson, Pauline 1999. “Towards a variable-free semantics,” Linguistics and
Philosophy 22:117–84.
Jäger, Gerhard, Strigin, Anatoli, Wilder, Chris, Zhang, Niina (eds.) 2001, ZAS
Papers in Linguistics 22. Berlin: ZAS.
Jaeggli, Osvaldo 1986. “Passive,” Linguistic Inquiry 17:593–9.
Jagodziński, Grzegorz 2007. “More on syntactic typology,” manuscript, down-
loadable at www.aries.com.pl/grzegorzj/thp/morfosynt.html.
Jenkins, Lyle 2000. Biolinguistics: Exploring the Biology of Language. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Jensen, John T. and van Herk, Gerard (eds.) 2002. Proceedings of the 2001 CLA
Annual Conference. Department of Linguistics, University of Ottawa: Cahiers
Linguistiques d’Ottawa. 
Jeong, Youngmi 2007. Applicatives: Structure and Interpretation from a
Minimalist Perspective. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins
Publishing Company.
Johannessen, Janne Bondi 1998. Coordination. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Johnson, Kyle. 1996/2003. “In search of the middle field,” manuscript, University
of Massachusetts, Amherst.
2000. “Few dogs eat Whiskas or cats Alpo,” in Kusumoto and Villalta (eds.),
pp. 59–82.
2006. “Gapping,” in Everaert and van Riemsdijk (eds.), pp. 407–35.
2007. “LCA+Alignment=RNR,” Handout of a talk presented at the Workshop
on Coordination, Subordination and Ellipsis, Tubingen, June 2007.
(ed.) 2008. Topics in Ellipsis. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
2009. “Gapping is not (VP) ellipsis,” Linguistic Inquiry 40:289–328.
Kadowaki, Makoto and Kawahara, Shigeto (eds.) 2003. Proceedings of the 33rd
Annual Meeting of the North East Linguistics Society. Amherst, MA: GLSA
Publications.
Kapetangianni, Konstantia and Taylor, Heather 2007. “Comparative correlatives
260 References
in Greek: the syntax of oso,” Paper presented at the Workshop on Greek
Syntax and Semantics.
Kasai, Hironobu 2007. “Multiple dominance in syntax,” PhD thesis, Harvard
University.
Kayne, Richard 1984. Connectedness and Binary Branching. Dordrecht: Foris.
1994. The Antisymmetry of Syntax, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
2005. “Some notes on comparative syntax,” in Cinque and Kayne (eds.), pp.
3–69.
2008. “Antisymmetry and the lexicon,” manuscript, downloadable at http://ling.
auf.net/lingBuzz/000598.
Kazenin, Konstantin 2001. “On coordination of wh-phrases in Russian,” Paper
presented at the Fourth European Conference on Formal Description of
Slavic Languages.
Kiefer, Ferenc, Anderson, Stephen R. and Kiss, Katalin E. (eds.) 1994. The
Syntactic Structure of Hungarian. Syntax and Semantics 27. New York:
Academic Press.
Kim, Jeong-Seuk 1997. “Syntactic focus movement and ellipsis: a minimalist
approach,” PhD thesis, Univesity of Connecticut.
Kim, Min-Joo and Strauss, Uri (eds.) 2000. Proceedings of the 31st Annual Meeting
of the North East Linguistics Society. Amherst, MA: GLSA Publications.
Kim, Sun-Woong 2005. “On the dative intervention effect in raising to subject,”
Studies in Generative Grammar 4:649–60.
Kimenyi, Alexandre 1980. A Relational Grammar of Kinyarwanda. Berkeley:
University of California Press.
Kitahara, Hisatsugu 1993. “Deducing superiority effects from the shortest chain
requirement,” Harvard Working Papers in Linguistics 3:109–120.
1997. Elementary Operations and Optimal Derivations. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Kluck, Marlies 2009. “Good neighbors or far friends. Matching and proximity
effects in Dutch Right Node Raising,” Groninger Arbeiten zur Germanistischen
Linguistik (GAGL) 48.
Koppen, Mario van, Sio, Joanna, de Vos, Mark (eds.) 2002. Proceedings  of
ConSOLE X. University of Leiden.
Kratzer, Angelika 1993. “The event argument and the semantics of voice,”
manuscript, University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Kučerová, Ivona 2007. “The syntax of givenness,” PhD thesis, MIT.
Kuno, Susumo 1976. “Gapping: a functional analysis,” Linguistic Inquiry 7:300–
18.
Kusumoto, Kiyomi (ed.) 1997. Proceedings of the 26th Annual Meeting of the North
East Lingustics Society. Amherst, MA: GLSA Publications.
Kusumoto, Kiyomi and Villalta, Elisabeth (eds.) 2000. UMOP 23: Issues in
Semantics and its Interface. Amherst, MA: GLSA Publications.
Laenzlinger, Christopher 2005. “French adjective ordering: perspectives on DP
internal movement types,” Lingua 115:645–89.
Landau, Idan 1999. “Possessor raising and the structure of VP,” Lingua 107:1–37.
References 261
Lappin, Shalom and Benmamoun, Elabbas (eds.) 1999. Fragments: Studies in
Ellipsis and Gapping. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Larson, Bradley 2007. “In- or ex-situ: a diagnosis of right node raising,” under-
graduate honors thesis, University of Washington.
Larson, Richard 1987. “Missing prepositions and the analysis of English free
relative clauses,” Linguistic Inquiry 19:239–66.
1988. “On the double object construction,” Linguistic Inquiry 19:335–91.
1990. “Double objects revisited: reply to Jackendoff,” Linguistic Inquiry 21:589–
632.
1998. “Free relative clauses and missing P’s: reply to Grosu,” manuscript, Stony
Brook University.
Lasnik, Howard 2000. Syntactic Structures Revisited: Contemporary Lectures on
Classic Transformational Theory. Cambridge: MA: MIT Press.
Lasnik, Howard and Kuppin, Joseph J. 1977. “A restrictive theory of transforma-
tional grammar,” Theoretical Linguistics 4:173–96.
Lavine, James E., Franks, Steven, Tasseva-Kurktchieva, Mila, Filip, Hana (eds.)
2006. Formal Approaches to Slavic Linguistics 14: The Princeton Meeting
2005. Ann Arbor, MI: Michigan Slavic Publications.
Lee, Ju-Eun 2004. “Ditransitive structures and the (anti-)locality principle,” PhD
thesis, Harvard University.
Lee, Xah 2007. “Introduction to symmetry,” manuscript, downloadable at http://
xahlee.org/Wallpaper_dir/symmetry.html.
Lee-Shoenfeld, Vera 2006. “German possessor datives: raised and affected,” The
Journal of Comparative Germanic Linguistics 9:101–142.
Lefebvre, Claire (ed.) 1991. Serial Verbs: Grammatical, Comparative, and
Cognitive Approaches. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing
Company.
Legate, Julie 2001. “The configuration nature of a non-configurational language,”
Linguistic Variation Yearbook 1:63–99.
2002. “Warlpiri: theoretical implications,” PhD thesis, MIT.
2003. “Some interface properties of the phase,” Linguistic Inquiry 34:506–16.
Lema, José and Rivero, Maria-Luisa 1989. “Long Head Movement: ECP vs.
HMC,” in Carter, Dechaine et al. (eds.), pp. 333–47.
Levine, Robert D. 1985. “Right node (non-)raising,” Linguistic Inquiry 16:492–97.
Lin, Vivian 2000. “Determiner sharing,” in Billerey and Lillehaugen (eds.), pp.
274–87.
2001. “A way to undo A-movement,” in Megerdoomian and Bar-el (eds.), pp.
358–71. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
2002. “Coordination and sharing at the interfaces,” PhD thesis, MIT.
Lipták, Aniko (ed.) 2009. Correlatives Crosslinguistically. Amsterdam/
Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing Company.
Lobeck, Anne 1995. Ellipsis: Functional Heads, Licensing, and Identification.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
López, Luis and Winkler, Susanne 2003. “Variation at the syntax–semantics
interface,” in Schwabe and Winkler (eds.), pp. 227–48.
262 References
Malchukov, Andrej 2004. “Towards a semantic typology of adversative and
contrast marking,” Journal of Semantics 21:177–98.
Maling, Joan 1972. “On gapping and the order of constituents,” Linguistic Inquiry
3:101–08.
Marantz, Alec 1993. “Implications of asymmetries in double object construc-
tions,” in Mchombo (ed.), pp. 113–50.
1997. “No escape from syntax: Don’t try morphological analysis in the privacy
of your own lexicon,” in Dimitriadis, Siegel, Surek-Clark and Williams (eds.),
pp. 201–25.
2001. “Words.” Paper presented at WCCFL 20, USC, February 2001.
To appear. “Phases and words”.
Martin, Roger and Uriagereka, Juan 2000. “Introduction: Some possible founda-
tions of the minimalist program,” in Martin, Michaels and Uriagereka (eds.),
pp. 1–29.
Martin, Roger, Michaels, David and Uriagereka, Juan (eds.) 2000. Step by Step:
Essays in Honor of Howard Lasnik. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Marušič, Franc 2009. “Non-simultaneous Spell-Out in the clausal and nominal
domain,” in Grohmann (ed.) pp. 151–81.
Marušič, Franc and Žaucer, Rok 2006. “On the intensional feel-like construction
in Slovenian,” Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 24:1093–1159.
McCawley, James 1982. “Parentheticals and discontinuous constituent structure,”
Linguistic Inquiry 13:91–106.
1988. “The comparative conditional constructions in English, German and
Chinese,” Berkeley Linguistics Society 14:176–87.
1998. The Syntactic Phenomena of English (2nd edn). Chicago: Chicago
University Press.
McCloskey, James 1986. “Right node raising and preposition stranding,”
Linguistic Inquiry 17:183–86.
McGinnis, Martha 1998. “Locality in A-movement,” PhD thesis, MIT.
2000. “Phases and the syntax of applicatives,” in Kim and Strauss (eds.), pp.
333–49.
2001 “Variation in the phase structure of applicatives,” Linguistic Variation
Yearbook 1:105–46.
2002. “Object asymmetries in a phase theory of syntax,” in Jensen and van Herk
(eds.), pp. 245–56.
2004. “Lethal ambiguity,” Linguistic Inquiry 35:47–95.
2005. “UTAH at merge: evidence from multiple applicatives,” MIT Working
Papers in Linguistics 49:183–200.
2008. “Applicatives,” Language and Linguistics Compass 2:1225–45.
Mchombo, Sam A. (ed.) 1993. Theoretical Aspects of Bantu Grammar 1. Stanford,
CA: CSLI Publications.
McNally, Louise and Kennedy, Chris (eds.) 2008. Adjectives and Adverbs: Syntax,
Semantics, and Discourse. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
McShane, Marjorie 2005. A Theory of Ellipsis. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Megerdoomian, Karine and Bar-el, Leora Anne (eds.) 2001. Proceedings of
References 263
the 20th West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics. Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Press.
Mikkelsen, Line 2005. Copular Clauses: Specification, Predication and Equation.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing Company.
Miyagawa, Shigeru 1995. “Scrambling as an obligatory movement, Proceedings
of the Nanzan Conference on Japanese Linguistics and Language Teaching,
Nanzan University, Nagoya, Japan.
1997. “Against optional scrambling,” Linguistic Inquiry 28:1–26.
Miyagawa, Shigeru and Tsujioka, Takae 2004. “Argument structure and ditransi-
tive verbs in Japanese,” Journal of East Asian Linguistics 13:1–38.
Moltmann, Friederike 1992a. “Coordination and comparatives,” PhD thesis,
MIT.
1992b. “On the interpretation of three-dimensional syntactic trees,” in Barker,
C. and Dowty, D. (eds.) Columbus, OH: Ohio State Univesity, Department of
Linguistics, Proceedings of SALT II.
Moore, John, and Perlmutter, David 2000. “What does it take to be a dative
subject?,” Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 18:373–416.
Moro, Andrea 2000. Dynamic Antisymmetry. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
2007. “Some notes on unstable structures,” manuscript, Università San Raffaele
di Milano.
Moulton, Keir and Wolf, Matthew (eds.) 2004. Proceedings of the 34th Annual
Meeting of the North East Linguistics Society. Amherst, MA: GLSA.
Muadz, Husni 1991. “Coordinate structures: a planar representation,” PhD thesis,
University of Arizona.
Müller, Stefan (ed.) 2006. The Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on
Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Munn, Alan 1993. “Topics in the syntax and semantics of coordinate structures,”
PhD thesis, University of Maryland, College Park.
1999. “On the identity requirement of ATB movement,” Natural Language
Semantics 7:421–25.
2001. “Explaining parasitic gap restrictions,” in Culicover and Postal (eds.), pp.
369–92.
Muysken, Pieter, and Veenstra, Tonjes 2006. “Serial verbs,” in Everaert and van
Riemsdijk (eds.), pp. 234–70.
Neijt, Anneke 1979. Gapping: A Contribution to Sentence Grammar. Dordrecht:
Foris Publications.
Newport, Elissa, Hauser, Marc, Spaepen, Geertrui and Aslin, Richard 2004.
“Learning at a distance: II. Statistical learning of non-adjacent dependencies
in a non-human primate,” Cognitive Psychology 49:85–117.
Ngonyani, Deogratias S. 1996. “The morphosyntax of applicatives,” PhD thesis,
University of California, Los Angeles.
Nunes, Jairo 1999. “Linearization of chains and phonetic realization of chain links
in the minimalist program,” PhD thesis, University of Maryland, College
Park.
2001. “Sideward movement,” Linguistic Inquiry 32:303–44.
264 References
2004. Linearization of Chains and Sideward Movement. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Oehrle, Richard T. 1976. “The grammatical status of the English dative alterna-
tion,” PhD thesis, MIT.
1987. “Boolean properties in the analysis of gapping,” Syntax and Semantics
20:201–40.
Ormazabal, Javier and Juan Romero. 2007. “The derivation of dative alterna-
tion,” Paper presented at the Workshop on Argument Structure, University
of the Basque Country, Vitoria-Gasteiz.
Otsu, Yukio. (ed.) 2006. Proceedings of the 7th Annual Tokyo Conference on
Psycholinguistics. Tokyo: Hituzi Syobo Publishing Company.
Partee, Barbara H., ter Meulen, Alice & Wall, Robert E. 1993. Mathematical
Methods in Linguistics, Dordrecht/Boston/London: Kluwer Academic
Publishers.
Pereltsvaig, Asya 2008. Copular Sentences in Russian: A Theory of Intra-Clausal
Relations. New York: Springer.
Pérez-Leroux, Ana Teresa and Roberge, Yves (eds.) 2003. Romance Linguistics:
Theory and Acquisition. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Pesetsky, David 1982. “Paths and categories,” PhD thesis, MIT.
1995. Zero Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
2001. Phrasal Movement and its Kin. Cambridge: MA: MIT Press.
Pesetsky, David and Torrego, Esther 2006. “Probes, goals and syntactic catego-
ries,” in Otsu (eds.), pp. 25–60.
Peters, Stanley and Richie, Robert 1973. “On the generative power of transforma-
tional grammars,” Information Sciences 6: 49–83.
Postal, Paul 1993. “Parasitic gaps, an across-the-board phenomenon,” Linguistic
Inquiry 24:735–54.
1998. Three Investigations of Extraction. Cambridge: MA: MIT Press.
2004. Skeptical Linguistic Essays. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Progovac, Ljiljana 1998a. “Structure for coordination (part I)” GLOT International
3.7:3–6.
1998b. “Structure for coordination (part II),” GLOT International 3.8:3–9.
1999. “Events and economy of coordination,” Syntax 2:141–59.
Pylkkänen, Liina 2002. “Introducing arguments,” PhD thesis, MIT.
2008. Introducing Arguments. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Rackowski, Andrea and Richards, Norvin 2005. “Phase edge and extraction: a
Tagalog case study,” Linguistic Inquiry 36:565–99.
Repp, Sophie 2008. Negation in Gapping, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Richards, Marc 2004. “Object shift and scrambling in North and West
Germanic. A case study in symmetrical syntax,” PhD thesis, University of
Cambridge.
Richards, Norvin 2001. Movement in Language: Interactions and Architectures.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Riemsdijk, Henk van 1998. “Trees and scions – science and trees,” manuscript,
Fest-Web-Page for Noam Chomsky.
References 265
2000. “Free relatives inside out: transparent free relatives as grafts,”
Proceedings of the 8th Annual Conference of the Polish Association for the
Study of English.
2006a. “Free relatives,” in Everaert and van Riemsdijk (eds.), pp. 338–82.
2006b. “Grafts follow from Merge,” in Frascarelli (ed.), pp. 17–44.
Rivero, Maria Luisa 1991. “Long head movement and negation: Serbo-Croatian
vs. Slovak and Czech,” The Linguistic Review 8:319–51.
1994. “Clause structure and V-movement in the languages of the Balkans,”
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 12:63–120.
2009. “Intensionality, high applicatives, and aspect: Involuntary state construc-
tions in Bulgarian and Slovenian,” Natural Language and Linguistic Theory
27:151–96.
Rizzi, Luigi 1986. “On chain formation,” in Borer (ed.), pp. 65–96.
1990. Relativized Minimality. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Rooryck, Johan 2000. Configurations of Sentential Complementation: Perspectives
from Romance Languages. London: Routledge.
Ross, John R. 1967. “Constraints on variables in syntax,” PhD thesis, MIT.
1970. “Gapping and the order of constituents,” in Bierwisch and Heidolph
(eds.), pp. 249–59.
Rudin, Catherine 2006. “Multiple wh relatives in Slavic,” in Compton,
Goledzinowska and Savchenko (eds.), pp. 299–323.
Rutkowski, Paweł and Maliszewska, Hanna 2007. “On prepositional phrases
inside numeral phrases in Polish,” Lingua 117:784–813.
Sabbagh, Joseph 2007. “Ordering and linearizing rightward movement,” Natural
Language and Linguistic Theory 25:349–401.
Saffran, Jenny, Hauser, Marc, Seibel, Rebecca, Kapfhamer, Joshua, Tsao, Fritz
and Cushman, Fiery 2008. “Grammatical pattern learning by human infants
and cotton-top tamarin monkeys,” Cognition 107:479–500.
Sag, Ivan A. 1976. “Deletion and logical form,” PhD thesis, MIT.
Sampson, Geoffrey 1975. “The single mother condition,” Journal of Linguistics
11:1–11.
Sarkar, Anoop and Joshi, Aravind 1996. “Coordination in Tree Adjoining
Grammars: formalization and implementation,” in Tsujii (ed.), pp. 610–15.
Schelfhout, Carla, Coppen, Peter-Arno and Oostdijk, Nelleke 2004. “Transparent
free relatives,” in Blaho, Vicente and de Vos (eds.), pp. 81–90.
Schwabe, Kerstin and Winkler, Susanne (eds.) 2003. The Interfaces: Deriving and
Interpreting Omitted Structures. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins
Publishing Company.
Scott, Gary-John 2002. “Stacked adjectival modification and the structure of
nominal phrases,” in Cinque (ed.), pp. 91–116.
Scott, Tanya 2010. “Spurious coordination in Russian multiple WH,” Paper pre-
sented at the 2010 LSA Annual Meeting, Baltimore.
Seely, T. Daniel 2006. “Merge, derivational c-command, and subcategorization in
a label- free syntax,” in Boeckx (ed.), pp. 182–217.
Shahin, Kimary N., Blake, Susan and Kim, Eun-Sook (eds.) 1999. Proceedings of
266 References
the Seventeenth West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics. Stanford: CSLI
Publications.
Siegel, Muffy 1984. “Gapping and interpretation,” Linguistic Inquiry 15:523–30.
Siewierska, Anna and Hollmann, W. 2007. “Ditransitive clauses in English with
special reference to Lancashire dialect,” in Hannay and Steen (eds.), pp.
83–102.
Sjoblom, Todd 1980. “Coordination,” PhD thesis, MIT.
Soschen, Alona 2005. “Derivation by phase: Russian applicatives,” Proceedings of
the 2005 Canadian Linguistic Association Annual Conference.
Sportiche, Dominique 1997. “Reconstruction and constituent structure,” manu-
script, University of California, Los Angeles.
Sproat, Richard and Shih, Chilin 1991. “The cross-linguistic distribution of adjec-
tive ordering restrictions,” in Georgopolous and Ishihara (eds.), pp. 565–93.
Srivastav, Veneeta 1991. “The syntax and semantics of correlatives,” Natural
Language and Linguistic Theory 9:637–86.
Stepanov, Arthur and Stateva, Penka 2009. “When QR disobeys superiority,”
Linguistic Inquiry 40:176–85.
Svenonius, Peter 2005. “Extending the Extension Condition to discontinuous
idioms,” Linguistic Variation Yearbook 5:227–63.
(ed.) 2002. Subjects, Expletives, and the EPP. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
2008 “The position of adjectives and other phrasal modifiers in the decomposi-
tion of DP,” in McNally and Kennedy (eds.), pp. 16–42.
Swan, Oscar 2002. A Grammar of Contemporary Polish. Bloomington, IN: Slavica.
Szabolcsi, Anna 1994. “The noun phrase,” in Kiefer, Anderson and Kiss (eds.), pp.
179–275.
Taraldsen, Knut Tarald 2002. “The que/qui alternation and the distribution of
expletives,” in Svenonius (ed.), pp. 29–42.
Taylor, Heather 2006. “Out on good syntactic behavior,” generals paper.
University of Maryland, College Park.
Tomaszewicz, Barbara 2010. “Against spurious coordination in multiple wh-ques-
tions,” Paper presented at WCCFL 20, University of Southern California.
Torrego, Esther 1996. “Experiencers and raising verbs,” in Freidin (ed.), pp.
101–20.
Travis, Lisa 1984. “Parameters and effects of word order variation,” PhD thesis,
MIT.
Tsujii, J. (ed.) 1996. Proceedings of the 16th Conference on Computational
Linguistics, vol. 2. Morristown, NJ: Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Ura, Hiroyuki 1996. “Multiple feature checking: a theory of grammatical function
splitting,” PhD thesis, MIT.
Vergnaud, Jean-Roger 1974. “French relative clauses,” PhD thesis, MIT.
Vitale, Anthony 1981. Swahili Syntax. Dordrecht: Foris.
Vries, Mark de 2005a. “Merge: properties and boundary conditions,” Linguistics
in the Netherlands 22:219–30.
2005b. “Coordination and syntactic hierarchy,” Studia Linguistica 59:83–105.
References 267
2008. “Asymmetric merge and parataxis,” Canadian Journal of Linguistics
53:355–85.
2009. “On multidominance and linearization,” Biolinguistics 3:344–403.
Webelhuth, Gert (ed.) 1994. Government and Binding Theory and the Minimalist
Program. Malden/Oxford: Blackwell Publishers.
Wexler, Kenneth and Culicover, Peter W 1980. Formal Principles of Language
Acquisition. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Whitman, Neal 2002. “Category neutrality: A type-logical investigation,” PhD
thesis, Ohio State University.
2004. “Semantics and pragmatics of English verbal dependent coordination,”
Language 80:403–34.
Wiland, Bartosz 2009. “Paths to remnant movement: a single solution to three
problems in the Polish OVS syntax,” Paper presented at NELS 40, MIT.
Wilder, Chris 1999a. “Transparent free relatives,” in Shahin, Blake, and Kim
(eds.), pp. 685–99.
1999b “Right node raising and the LCA,” in Bird, Carnie, Haugen and Norquest
(eds.), pp. 586–98.
2008. “Shared constituents and linearization,” in Johnson (ed.), pp. 229–58.
Williams, Edwin 1978. “Across-the-board rule application,” Linguistic Inquiry
9:31–43.
1990. “The ATB theory of parasitic gaps,” The Linguistic Review 6:265–79.
Willim, Ewa 1989. On Word Order: A Government and Binding Study of English
and Polish. Kraków: Zeszyty Naukowe Uniwersytetu Jagiellońskiego.
Woolford, Ellen 1993. “Symmetric and asymmetric passives,” Natural Language
and Linguistic Theory 11:679–728.
2006. “Lexical case, inherent case, and argument structure,” Linguistic Inquiry
37:111–30.
Zabrocki, Tadeusz 1981. Lexical Rules of Semantic Interpretation. Control and
NP Movement in English and Polish. Poznań: Uniwersytet im. Adama
Mickiewicza.
Zhang, Niina 2007. “Derivations of two paired dependency constructions,” Lingua
117:2134–58.
Zoerner, Edward 1995. “Coordination: the syntax of &P,” PhD thesis, University
of California, Irvine.
A-bar movement 36–8, 115, 137, 189, 209
A-movement 38, 218n23
Abbott, Barbara 71
Abeillé, Anne 195–6, 202, 245n32
Abels, Klaus 70, 232n26
Abraham, Werner 238n49
Ackema, Peter 39
across-the-board (ATB) wh-questions
54–62
Japanese 58
Korean 58
Polish 57–8, 221n19
Adger, David 40, 183
adjectival order 10–11
Adjunct Condition 96, 203, 205
adjuncts 2, 172–5
affix hopping 12
Agree 7–8, 47–8
cumulative agreement 50
Multiple Agree 48–9, 60, 220n12
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y. 93
Albanian: double object constructions 33,
35
Alexiadou, Artemis 242n15
Alsina, Alex 217n17
American English
passivization 110–11
wh-movement 216n14
An, Duk-Ho 222n32
Anagnostopoulou, Elena 110, 113, 127–30,
232n23
Analyticity Parameter 14
antisymmetry 4
Antisymmetry Theory 17–20
Dynamic Antisymmetry Theory 20–3, 51
Aoun, Joseph 140
applicative constructions 32–5, 217nn17–18
see also locality and symmetric passives
arguments 2, 172
Aslin, Richard 213n7
asymmetric languages 33
asymmetry 2–3, 4, 15, 17–42
Antisymmetry Theory 17–20
Asymmetry Theory 23–5
coordination 25–9
double object constructions 29–35
Dynamic Antisymmetry Theory 20–3,
51
in Labeling 1, 39–42
in Merge 1
in Move 1, 35–9
Asymmetry Theory 23–5
ATB: see across-the-board (ATB)
wh-questions
Attract Closest 36, 109
b-Merge (behindance Merge) 45
Bachrach, Asaf 68, 74
Bader, Markus 243n18
Bailyn, John 32, 119, 155, 183, 230n9
Baker, Mark 14, 93, 144, 164, 177–82,
184, 213n9, 216n13, 226n52, 232n24,
242n18, 243n19, 243n22
ban on ambiguous Attract 182
Bantu languages
passivization 113
see also Ndendeule; Swahili
Bare Phrase Structure Theory 19–20, 46–7,
51, 164, 173, 175, 177
Barss, Andrew 30, 37, 120–1
Basque: pied-piping 203
Bayer, Josef 243n18
Beck, Sigrid 31, 188, 189, 190, 244n28
Bernstein, Judy 11
Bhatt, Rajesh 187, 243n26
binding 72
Bodomo, Adams 17, 92–4
Boeckx, Cedric 37, 41, 207, 211, 218n22,
239n1
Boolean Phrase 221n23
Borer, Hagit 14, 165
Borsley, Robert D. 57, 195–6, 202–3,
243n32, 245n32
Boskovic, Zeljko 38–9, 58–9, 213n12
Bowers, John 183
Brasoveanu, Adrian 244n27
268
Index
Index 269
Bresnan, Joan 95, 226n55
British English: passivization 112, 126, 128,
133
Browne, Wayles 67
Bruening, Benjamin 140–2
Bulgarian: participle fronting 39
Bury, Dirk 95, 226n55
Cable, Seth 240n8
Camacho, José 27
Camdzic, Amela 39
Caponigro, Ivano 95
Carnie, Andrew 218n3
case and symmetric passives
case absorption 144–6
dative intervention effects 148–51
freezing and symmetric passives 154–61
lack of multiple datives 151–4
lexical case and passive movement 146–8,
239n52
categories of syntactic objects: see Labeling
Chaga: passivization 128
Chen-Main, Joan 46
Chichewa: applicatives 132, 217n17
Cho, Sungeun 58
Chomsky-adjunction 173
Chomsky, Noam 2, 4, 6, 8, 13, 19–20, 36,
40–1, 164, 172–6, 217n20, 219nn6–7,
246n39
C-I (conceptual-intentional) system 5
Cinque, Gugliemo 10, 11, 242n15
Citko, Barbara 37, 52, 54, 62–3, 66–8, 94–5,
128, 136, 147, 155, 164, 178, 183, 185–6,
191–3, 219n5, 221nn18–19, 222n30,
224n42, 224n44, 226n51, 226n55,
227n57, 227n60, 229n5, 238n51,
241n13, 243n18, 243n21, 243nn24–25,
244n29, 246–7n43
clauses
free relatives 94–107
theta role assignment 2
clefting 138
clitic complementation structures 21
Collins, Chris 93, 114, 163–9, 239n5, 240n7,
242n14
Comp Account 95, 227–8n62
comparative conditionals: see comparative
correlatives
comparative correlatives 178, 185–90,
192–206
Dutch 188, 196–8, 247n45
English 188, 194–5, 198, 201–3
French 195–6, 198, 201–2
German 196–8, 246n41, 247n45
Greek 188, 195, 198
Hindi 198, 201
Hungarian 198, 247n45
Irish 246n41
Polish 186–8, 195, 198, 201–3, 244n27,
245n31, 246n38
Romanian 244n27
Spanish 196, 198, 201–2
Tagalog 246n41
Comrie, Bernard 185
concatenation 175
conceptual-intentional (C-I) system 5
Conjunction Phrase 215n10
conjunctions
consecutive 80–1
contrastive 80–2
consequential serial verb construction 179,
180
Coordinate Structure Constraint 56, 67,
201
coordination 25–9, 221n19
correlative coordination 215–16n11,
221n19
covert coordination 179
node contraction 46
Coppen, Peter-Arno 97
Coppock, Elizabeth 224n44
correlates 77, 186
correlative coordination 215–16n11,
221n19
phrases 186
pronouns 186
correlatives 186, 188
comparative correlatives 178, 185–90,
192–206
equative correlatives 244n27
standard correlatives 186–7, 190–2, 200
wh-movement in correlative clauses
190–206
covert coordination 179
Croatian
datives 238n49
wh-questions 63
cross-categorial symmetry 2
crossing 12
Csirmaz, Aniko 194
Cuervo, Maria Cristina 38, 111, 218n23
Culicover, Peter 30, 70, 194–5, 200–1,
212n4, 225n47, 245nn31–32
cumulative agreement 50
Czech
double object constructions 32, 119,
230n9
participle fronting 39
D-structure 5
Dabrowska, Ewa 237n45
Dàgááré: serial verb constructions 92–4
270 Index
Danish: passivization 110–11
datives
Croatian 238n49
German 237n46, 238n49
Hebrew 237n46
intervention effects 148–51
Japanese 238n49
lack of multiple datives 151–4
Polish 122–5, 147–8, 150–61
Russian 230n12
Slovenian 153
Dayal, Veneeta 67, 187
De Morgan’s Laws 79
De Vos, Mark 68
De Vries, Mark 45, 68, 216n12, 220n13
Den Dikken, Marcel 115, 183, 188–90, 194,
197–8, 233–4n33, 245n36
depictives 34–5, 217n18
derivational locus 167
Di Sciullo, Anna Maria 17, 23–5, 114,
214n2, 214–15n6
directionality 12
displacement: see Move
Distributed Morphology 165
Dixon, Robert M. W. 93
Doggett, Teal Bissell 127–8, 131, 231n17,
232n22
dominance, full 53
Donati, Valentina 95, 227n57
Dornisch, Ewa 32, 119
double object constructions 29–35
Albanian 33, 35
Czech 32, 119, 230n9
English 30, 34, 134–7, 140, 142
Japanese 31–2, 119
Kinyarwanda 33
Luganda 35
Ndendeule 32
Polish 31–2, 115–22, 127, 142–3
Russian 32, 119, 230n9, 234n38
Dutch
comparative correlatives 188, 196–8,
247n45
reflexive possessive pronouns 216n12
right node raising 223n38
Dvořák, Vera 32, 119, 230n9
Dyakonova, Marina 32, 119, 133
Dyła, Stefan 57
Dynamic Antisymmetry Theory 20–3, 51
Dziwirek, Katarzyna 112, 116–17, 122,
147–8, 151–2, 160, 229n6, 231nn14–15,
237n47
Edo: serial verb constructions 178–82,
243n20
Emonds, Joseph 134, 138, 228n2
English
adjectives 10
comparative correlatives 188, 194–5, 198,
201–3
double object constructions 30, 34, 134–7,
140, 142
gapping 77, 80, 82–3, 85
passivization 110–12, 125–6, 128, 133
right node raising 71–2
wh-questions 37, 57–8
wh&wh questions 62–8
equative correlatives 244n27
Ernst, Thomas 242n15
Espinal, Maria-Teresa 195–6
Extension Condition 12, 219n6
External Merge 6, 44
see also Merge: asymmetry; Merge:
symmetry
feature checking/feature valuation 7–8,
47–50
Fillmore, Charles 133–4, 228n2
Fitch, Tecumseh 6, 175
Fowler, George 147
Fox, Danny 13, 213n10
Frajzyngier, Zygmunt 81
Franks, Steven 58–9
free relatives 94–107
Comp Account 95, 227–8n62
Head Account 95–6, 104, 227–8n62
standard free relatives (SFRs) 96–100,
106
transparent free relatives (TFRs) 96–9,
104–6
French
adjectives 10
comparative correlatives 195–6, 198,
201–2
correlative coordination 215n11
qui/que alternation 171–2
full dominance 53
gapping 77–92
directionality 83–4
English 77, 80, 82–3, 85
German 83–4
islands 85
Japanese 83
Korean 83
lexical material 80
linguistic antecedents 82
matching 85–8
negation 79
non-constituents 82
non-coordinate contexts 82
Polish 77–8, 80–90
Index 271
remnants 77, 80–2
restrictions 79–92
and right node raising 225n46
Russian 225–6n48
Gast, Volker 128
geometric patterns 3
Gerdts, Donna 130
German
comparative correlatives 196–8, 246n41,
247n45
datives 237n46, 238n49
gapping 83–4
passivization 111, 145
right node raising 223nn37–38
wh-phrases 37
Giannakidou, Anastasia 67
glide reflection symmetry 3
Goal 7–8
Goodall, Grant 45–6, 52, 54, 78
Government and Binding theory 5
Gracanin-Yüksek, Martina 52, 62–8, 95,
219n7, 222n28, 222n30, 238n49
Greek
comparative correlatives 188, 195, 198
passivization 113, 232n23
Green, Georgia M. 119, 216n13
Gribanova, Vera 62–3, 222n30
Grimshaw, Jane 95, 226n55, 240n6
Grohmann, Kleanthes 37, 232n26
Groos, Anneke 95, 227–8n62
Grosu, Alexander 95, 97, 227n59
Grosz, Patrick 50
Guimarães, Maximiliano 20
Ha, Seungwan 222n32
Haddican, William 231n19
Haegeman, Liliane 220n12
Hagstrom, Paul 67
Haider, Hubert 94, 242n18
Hale, Ken 14, 93
Halle, Morris 165
Hankamer, Jorge 82
Harley, Heidi 31, 165, 216n13
Hartmann, Katharina 222n32
Hauser, Mark 6, 175, 213n7
Head Account 95–6, 104, 227–8n62
Head Directionality Parameter 13–14
head movement 38–9
Head Movement Constraint 39
head promotion account 60–1
headless clauses see free relatives
Hebrew: datives 237n46
Heck, Fabian 240n8
Higginbotham, James 67
Hindi
comparative correlatives 198, 201
correlatives 186, 188
wh-movement 190–3
Hiraiwa, Ken 3, 16, 48–9, 60, 92–4
Hoji, Hajime 32, 119
Hollmann, W. 231n19
Holmberg, Anders 112, 150, 218n23
horizontal sharing 219n7
Hornstein, Norbert 61, 169–71, 174–5,
221n22, 222n24, 240n7, 240n9–10,
241n11
Hróarsdóttir, Thorbjörg 150, 218n23
Huang, James C.-T. 14
Huber, Stefan 188
Hudson, Richard 138, 234n34
Hughes, Arthur 128
Hungarian
comparative correlatives 198, 247n45
correlatives 186, 188
subjects and possessors 2–3
wh-movement 190–4
hurdling 231n17
Icelandic
A-movement 38, 218n23
Multiple Agree 48–9
passivization 112, 150–1
Inclusiveness Condition 40, 164
Indonesian: preposition stranding 71
inherent case: see quirky case
Internal Merge: see Move
involuntary state constructions 151, 153,
231n14
Ionin, Tania 234n38
Irish
comparative correlatives 246n41
preposition stranding 71
Island Constraints 69–70, 85
Italian
A-movement 218n23
correlative coordination 216n11
small clauses 178, 182–3
Izvorski, Roumyana 186, 245–6n38
Jackendoff, Ray 30, 194–5, 200–1, 212n4,
224n43, 225n45, 225n47, 242n16,
245nn31–32
Jacobson, Pauline 72
Jaeggli, Osvaldo 144
Jagodzinski, Grzegorz 235–6n42
Japanese
ATB wh-questions 58
datives 238n49
double object constructions 31–2, 119
gapping 83
scrambling 213n12
Jeong, Youngmi 128, 131
272 Index
Johannessen, Janne Bondi 27, 215n9
Johnson, Kyle 31, 52, 68, 72, 78–9, 88, 103,
144, 224n44, 225n46
Joshi, Aravind 46
Kapetangianni, Konstantia 188–9, 195,
245n34
Kasai, Hironobu 78, 91
Katzir, Roni 68, 74
Kayne, Richard 13–14, 17–20, 31, 50, 91,
214n1
Kazenin, Konstantin 66, 222n31
Kim, Jeong-Seuk 83
Kim, Sun-Woong 150
Kimenyi, Alexandre 33, 114
Kinyarwanda
double object constructions 33
passivization 114, 126, 135
Kitahara, Hisatsugu 67, 218n22, 236n43
Kluck, Marlies 223n38
Korean
ATB wh-questions 58
gapping 83
Kucerová, Ivona 32, 119
Kuno, Susumo 80, 226n50
Kuppin, Joseph J. 219n9
Labeling 1, 8–9
Labeling: asymmetry 1, 39–42
Labeling: symmetry 16, 163–206
arguments for eliminating labels 164–75
comparative correlatives 178, 185–90,
192–206
serial verb constructions 178–82
small clauses 178, 182–5
symmetric labels 176–8
wh-movement in correlative clauses
190–206
Laenzlinger, Christopher 10
Landau, Idan 237n46
Landman, Fred 95
language faculty 4
Larson, Bradley 68, 223n38
Larson, Richard 13, 26, 30–1, 95, 137–8,
140, 144, 216n13, 226n55, 227n57,
228n2, 239n53
Lasnik, Howard 30, 120–1, 219n9
Law of Coordination of Likes 62–3, 99,
215n9, 222n27
LCA (Linear Correspondence Axiom)
17–18, 91
leapfrogging 231n17
Lebeaux, David 140
Lee, Ju-Eun 131
Lee-Schoenfeld, Vera 237nn45–46
Legate, Julie 144, 213n6, 239n4
Levine, Robert D. 72
lexical case and passive movement 146–8,
239n52
LF (Logical Form) 5, 67
LF absorption 67
Li, Yen-hui Audrey 140
Lin, Vivian 79
Linear Correspondence Axiom (LCA)
17–18, 91
linearization 50–4, 73
locality and symmetric passives 126
movement through applicative phase
edge 130–5
quantifier raising from applicatives
140–4
wh-movement from applicatives 135–9
word order variation 127–30
Locus Principle 167
Logical Form (LF) 5, 67
Lohndal, Terje 220n12
long head movement 39
López, Luis 79
lowering transformations 12
Luganda: double object constructions 35
Malchukov, Andrej 80, 224n41
Maling, Joan 83
Maliszewska, Hanna 223n39
Marantz, Alec 128–9, 132, 134–5, 138, 165,
233n30, 239n4
Martin, Roger 212n4
Marusic, Franc 153
matching
free relatives 96
gapping 85–8
May, Robert 67
McCawley, James 45, 68, 188, 223n34
McCloskey, James 71
McGinnis, Martha 110–11, 114, 126–7, 130,
132–3, 144, 228n1, 231n16–17, 231n19,
233n28, 233n31
Mchombo, Sam A. 217n17
McShane, Marjorie 225–6n48
Merchant, Jason 67
Merge 44
b-Merge 45
External Merge 6, 44
Internal Merge (see Move)
see also Parallel Merge
Merge: asymmetry 1
Merge: symmetry 15, 43–108
across-the-board wh-questions 54–62
constraints 46–7
feature checking 47–50
Index 273
free relatives 94–107
gapping 77–92
linearization of symmetric structures
50–4, 73
Parallel Merge 44–6, 60, 68, 88, 99, 101,
219n7
right node raising 68–77
serial verbs 92–4
wh&wh questions 62–8
methodological minimalism 212n4
Mikkelsen, Line 115
Minimal Link Condition 36, 169
minimalist program 1, 4–9, 212n2, 242n18
Minimum Compliance, Principle of 246n42
mirror symmetry 3, 10
Miyagawa, Shigeru 32, 119, 238n49
Moltmann, Friederike 45, 52, 54, 78, 224n43
Moore, John 230n12
Moro, Andrea 17, 20–3, 115, 164, 178,
182–4, 214n4, 243n22
morphology 23–4, 165, 214–15n6
Move (Internal Merge) 7–8, 44
Move: asymmetry 1, 35–9
Move: symmetry 16, 109–62
case and symmetric passives 144–61
locality and symmetric passives 126–44
Polish dative subjects 122–5
Polish double object constructions
115–22
symmetric and asymmetric passives
109–15, 125–7
Muadz, Husni 43, 45, 52, 54, 71, 78
multidominance 43–6, 218–19nn3–4, 219n7
Multiple Agree 48–9, 60, 220n12
multiple specifiers 21
Multiple Spell-Out Theory: see Phase
Theory
Munn, Alan 26–7, 61, 215n9, 220–1n17,
221n19, 221n23, 222nn24–25
Muysken, Pieter 93
Ndendeule: double object constructions 32
negative polarity licensing 30, 72
nesting 12
Newport, Elissa 213n7
Ngonyani, Deogratias S. 32, 113–14, 132,
138–9, 234n35
Nissenbaum, Jon 13, 213n10
No Tampering Condition 12, 219n6
node contraction 46
Nonconfigurationality Parameter 14
Norwegian: passivization 112, 232n22
noun phrases
Heavy NP Shift 137
theta role assignment 2
Noyer, Rolf 165
null operator movement 61–2
Numeration 5
Nunes, Jairo 61, 174–5, 221n22, 222n24
Oehrle, Richard T. 30, 79, 119, 216n13
ontological minimalism 212n4
Oostdijk, Nelleke 97
optimality 4
Ormazabal, Javier 216n13
parallel factors 45
Parallel Merge 44–6, 60, 68, 88, 99, 101,
219n7
parasitic gaps 61–2
participle fronting 39
passivization 30
American English 110–11
Bantu languages 113
British English 112, 126, 128, 133
case and symmetric passives 144–61
Chaga 128
Danish 110–11
English 110–12, 125–6, 128, 133
German 111, 145
Greek 113, 232n23
Icelandic 112, 150–1
Kinyarwanda 114, 126, 135
locality and symmetric passives 126–44
Norwegian 122, 232n22
Polish 112, 129, 133, 136, 142–3,
145–51
Russian 133, 147
Spanish 111, 145, 150–1
Swahili 113–14, 129, 131–2, 138–9
Swedish 232n22
symmetric and asymmetric 109, 110–15,
125–7
Pereltsvaig, Asya 164, 176, 178, 182, 184–5,
242n18
Perlmutter, David 230n12
Pesetsky, David 12, 31, 37, 41, 216n13,
217n16, 226n50
Peters, Stanley 219n8
Phase Impenetrability Condition 6
Phase Theory 4–6, 212n5
Phonetic Form (PF) 5
phrase markers: see reduced phrase markers
(RPM)
pied-piping 168, 203
Pinker, Steven 242n16
pivots 43, 46–7
planes 43, 218n3
Platzack, Christer 112
points of symmetry 20
274 Index
Polish 14–15
ATB wh-questions 57–8, 221n19
comparative correlatives 186–8, 195, 198,
201–3, 244n27, 245n31, 246n38
datives 122–5, 147–8, 150–61
double object constructions 31–2, 115–22,
127, 142–3
double object verbs 118
free relatives 96
gapping 77–8, 80–90
head promotion account 60–1
imperfective verbs 86
lexical case 146–7
numerals 75, 223n39
passivization 112, 129, 133, 136, 142–3,
145–51
possessive pronouns 28
preposition stranding 71
reflexive possessive pronouns 28–9
right node raising 71, 74–7
standard correlatives 186–7
wh-movement 190–2
wh-phrases 37
wh-questions 63
word order 84
Polysynthesis Parameter 14
possessive pronouns 28–9
Postal, Paul 61, 69, 133–4, 228n2
preposition stranding 71–2
Principle A effects 30
Principle of Minimum Compliance 246n42
pro-drop languages 183
Probe 7–8
Probe-Label Correspondence Axiom 41
probes (selectors) 167
Progovac, Ljiljana 25, 27–8, 215n7, 215n11,
216n11
Pylkkänen, Liina 33–4, 129, 132, 134,
217n18, 232n27, 237n46, 239n54
quantifier raising (QR) 140–4
quirky case 154, 239n52
Rackowski, Andrea 203, 205, 246nn41–2
raising transformations 12
Ramchand, Gillian 183
recursion: see Merge
reduced phrase markers (RPM) 45, 219–
20n9
reflection symmetry 3, 11
reflexive possessive pronouns 28
Relational Grammar framework 231n15
relativization 138
Relativized Minimality 36, 109, 167
remnants 77, 80–2
Repp, Sophie 79, 83–4, 88
reprojection 169–71
resultative serial verb construction 179–80
Richards, Norvin 12, 203, 205, 246nn41–42
Riemsdijk, Henk van: see Van Riemsdijk,
Henk
Right Edge Restriction 72–3
right node raising (RNR) 68–77
Dutch 223n38
English 71–2
and gapping 225n46
German 223n37–38
Polish 71, 74–7
Right Roof Constraint 70
Ritchie, Robert 219n8
Rivero, Maria Luisa 231n14, 238n48
Rizzi, Luigi 36–8, 171
RNR: see right node raising
Roberts, Ian 144
roll-up movement 11
Romanian: comparative correlatives 244n27
Romero, Juan 216n13
Rooryck, Johan 171
Ross, John R. 26, 69–71, 83, 224n45
rotation symmetry 3
RPM (reduced phrase markers) 45, 219–
20n9
Rudin, Catherine 186
Russian
copular constructions 184–5
dative subjects 230n12
double object constructions 32, 119,
230n9, 234n38
gapping 225–6n48
passivization 133, 147
small clauses 178
wh-questions 63
Rutkowski, Paweł 223n39
S-structure 5
Sabbagh, Joseph 69–70, 72–4, 222n33
Saffran, Jenny et al. 213n7
Sag, Ivan 82
Sarkar, Anoop 46
Schelfhout, Carla 97
Schmid, Tanja 243n18
Scott, Tanya 62–3
Seely, T. Daniel 163
selectors 167
sensorimotor (SM) system 5
Serbo-Croatian
correlative coordination 216n11
participle fronting 39
wh-phrases 37
serial verb constructions
Labeling 178–82
Merge 92–4
Index 275
set theory 4
SFRs (standard free relatives) 96–100, 106
Shortest Move 109
sideward movement 59–60, 62
Siegel, Muffy 79
Siewierska, Anna 231n19
Simpler Syntax Hypothesis 212n4
Single Root Condition 60, 101
Sjoblom, Todd 83, 224n40
Slovenian: datives 153
sluicing 67
SM (sensorimotor) system 5
small clauses 21, 178, 182–5, 214n4
SMT (Strong Minimalist Thesis) 4–5
Soschen, Alona 133
Spaepen, Geertrui 213n7
Spanish
A-movement 38
comparative correlatives 196, 198, 201–2
passivization 111, 145, 150–1
Spell-Out 74, 212n5
Srivastav, Veneeta 187
standard correlatives 186–7, 190–2, 200
standard free relatives (SFRs) 96–100, 106
Stateva, Penka 142, 234n38
Stepanov, Arthur 142, 234n38
Stewart, Osamuyimen T. 164, 177–82, 184,
226n52, 242n18, 243n19, 243n22
Stone, Gerald 185
Strong Minimalist Thesis (SMT) 4–5
Superiority Condition 36–7
superraising 38
Svenonius, Peter 218–19n4
Swahili: passivization 113–14, 129, 131–2,
138–9
Swan, Oscar 116, 147
Swedish: passivization 232n22
swiping 67–8
symmetric languages 33
symmetric passives: see case and symmetric
passives
symmetry 1, 2–4
other sources 9–14
see also Labeling: symmetry; Merge:
symmetry; Move: symmetry
Symmetry Parameter 14
Szabolcsi, Anna 3
TAG (Tree Adjoining Grammar) 46
Tagalog: comparative correlatives 246n41
Takahashi, Daiko 213n12
Taraldsen, Knut Tarald 241n12
Taylor, Heather 188–90, 195, 245n34
TFRs (transparent free relatives) 96–9,
104–6
theoretical framework 4–9
theta roles 2
Tomaszewicz, Barbara 63
topicalization 138
Torrego, Esther 41
tough movement 12, 138
transformations 3
translation symmetry 3, 11
transparent free relatives (TFRs) 96–9,
104–6
Travis, Lisa 39
Tree Adjoining Grammar (TAG) 46
Trudgill, Peter 128
Tsujioka, Takae 32, 119, 238n49
Ura, Hiroyuki 128
Uriagereka, Juan 169–71, 212n4, 240n7,
240nn9–10, 241n11
Van Riemsdijk, Henk 94–5, 97, 100–1, 105,
219n4, 227–8n62
variable binding 30, 72
Veenstra, Tonjes 93
Vehicle Requirement on Merge 41
verbs
Polish double object verbs 118
Polish imperfective verbs 86
serial verb constructions 92–4, 178–82
vertical sharing 219n7
Vicente, Luis 68
Vitale, Anthony 129
Vries, Mark de: see De Vries, Mark
Warlpiri 14
weak crossover 30
West Flemish: Agree 220n12
Wexler, Kenneth 70
wh-movement 12
American English 216n14
from applicatives 135–9
in correlative clauses 190–206
Hindi 190–3
Hungarian 190–4
Polish 190–2
wh-phrases 37–8
wh-questions 36–7
across-the-board (ATB) 54–62
Croatian 63
English 37, 57–8, 62–8
Japanese 58
Korean 58
Polish 57–8, 63, 221n19
Russian 63
wh&wh questions 62–8
Whitman, Neal 63–4
Whitney, Rosemary 138
Wiland, Bartosz 230n11
276 Index
Wilder, Chris 52–3, 68, 73, 97
Williams, Edwin 45, 50, 52, 54, 219n8,
221n22
Willim, Ewa 192, 230n11
Winkler, Susanne 79
Woolford, Ellen 111, 129, 144, 154, 239n52
word order 84, 127–30
X-bar theory 46–7, 172
Zabrocki, Tadeusz 147
Zaucer, Rok 153
Zhang, Niina 222n30
Zhou, Xuan 258
Zoerner, Edward 26, 27
