	 the eight parts of speech	 13
The Greek article can also be used with the infinitives of verbs to create an
inflected noun (since infinitives really are nouns—we’ll talk about these later too)
of remarkable subtlety and nuance.
Finally, the Greek article can also be used without nouns altogether, just set
apart with a couple of particles, μέν (men) and δέ (de), to indicate “this one” and
“that one.”
For all these reasons, Greek theorists regarded their article as something spe-
cial, and not particularly an adjective.
•
The one class of adjectives we don’t cover above are those that are insolubly
confused about their identity: they’re verbs as well as adjectives. Those are the
participles. The ancient Latin grammarians called this kind of word the particip-
ium, which is to say, the thing that takes part (implicitly, in being both a verb and
an adjective, which is to say, an adjective noun). The Greeks called it the μετοχή
(metochē), which means about the same thing—“the with-having thing.” They
perceived that a participle was a lot like an adjective noun, and a lot like a verb,
and they decided that it was important enough to be considered a part of speech
on its own. This makes sense, but participles function primarily as supercharged
action-oriented adjectives.
We’ll have a lot to say about participles later on. What Greek does with the
participle is dazzling and brilliant.
Doing and being
The word “verb” comes more or less directly from Latin verbum, which simply
means “word.” The Greek term is ῥῆμα (rhēma).
The verb is the great beating heart of any language. Without at least an implicit
verb you can’t say anything in any language. Even mathematics (a specialized
language, but a language all the same) has its verbs (=, >, and <, among others).
We’ll have a lot to say about them later on, but for now it’s enough to note
that verbs come in two general varieties—action verbs and state-of-being verbs.
Action verbs, as most people readily understand, express some kind of action.
They include verbs like these:
	runs	 hit	 sings
	interrogate	 begin	 circumnavigate	
	wove	 taught
14	 Syntactical Mechanics
Just how active they have to be to qualify as action verbs is open to debate, though
even pretty inert “activities” like sitting and lying down come under the heading
of “action verbs.” The variety of action verbs is enormous, and the ability to iden-
tify and use the right one at the right time is one of the hallmarks of a good writer.
Energetic prose almost always uses a good range of verbs, while using adjectives
and adverbs rather sparingly.
State-of-being verbs are, by contrast, a rather small set. Fortunately or unfor-
tunately, they are also very important. They include obvious verbs of being as well
as those that imply coming to be and passing away:
	is	 was	 became
	becomes
One could also reasonably include among state-of-being verbs such borderline
cases as
seems
which is, in some contexts, understood as equivalent to “seems to be.”
The state-of-being verb actually is used in two completely different ways, the
copulative and the existential, and it’s very important to differentiate between the
two, though the form of the verb used itself is typically not any different. We’ll
discuss this at some length in the next chapter.
•
Verbs also throw off extra kinds of words that have a verbal origin, but special
meanings. These are (usually) what we call verbals, which is short for “verbal
nouns.” They include infinitives, gerunds, and those participles we spoke about
so fondly and mysteriously above. We’ll talk about which languages have which
kinds of verbal nouns later on. Verbal nouns are part of what make these languages
interesting, and once you have a handle on how they work, they’re not terribly
difficult.
How, when, where, and why
Adverbs answer all kinds of things about the action (or state of being) in a sen-
tence. Later, we’ll go into how adverbs and adverbial clauses modify other things,
but the adverb is in a very peculiar position in respect to the language: it has the
greatest freedom of any word. An adverb, we duly (and perhaps dully) learn, can
modify a verb, an adjective, or another adverb. It also sometimes can modify the
	 the eight parts of speech	 15
whole of a sentence—which is really a distinct function, though some would class
it as just a special way of modifying the verb.
Seldom do we stop to consider just how shockingly broad this freedom is. The
adverb is almost unfettered: it can appear anywhere, with either extraordinary
precision or in a way that makes one wonder about the muddiness of the author’s
thinking. Sometimes it’s perfectly obvious:
He ran quickly.
At other times, it can be used with a slovenly disregard for the freedom this gets
you:
He told me to take the book back to the library yesterday.
Did he tell me yesterday that I should at some unspecified time take the book back
to the library, or did he tell me at some unpecified time that it was to be returned
yesterday?
Theadverbalsolimitstheapplicationofanadjective(includingtheparticiple):
Abruptly questioning his unnecessarily obscure instructions, I
offended him.
The adverb can also be daisy-chained to modify another adverb, and so on,
though a long string of them becomes hard to follow:
I very soon became tired of waiting.
Here “soon” is an adverb modifying “became tired”; “very” modifies it in turn.
Finally, the adverb modifying a whole sentence is a rare thing, and deserves to
be rarer still, but such things do occur. Consider the following:
Fortunately, he has not apparently inherited his father’s genetic disease.
Hopefully, he never will.
“Fortunately” in the first of those sentences is construed as what is called a
“sentence adverb”—which is to say, it modifies the predication as a whole. It’s
equivalent to saying, “It is fortunate that . . .” The second sentence, however,
represents a usage of “hopefully” that is still frowned on in most grammar books
and dictionaries, because (unlike “fortunately”) it has a significant meaning as an
adverb modifying a verb of human behavior. For example,
“Is there any cake left?” he asked hopefully.
It’s not the case that the speaker of the sentence is hoping that the subject asked
this: rather, the sentence is saying that the subject asked about the cake in a
16	 Syntactical Mechanics
hopeful manner. Most grammarians and lexical hard-liners continue to consider
this the only legitimate sense of “hopefully.” In the previous instance, that
meaning is confounded with the broader (but increasingly common) usage.
After all, it’s rather ludicrous to talk about inheriting a disease in a hopeful man-
ner. Complicating life for the hard-liners, though, is the fact that the misuse of
“hopefully” has a very long history, despite its ambiguities, and it corresponds
to the German adverb hoffentlich, which really is a sentence adverb—meaning
precisely what purists believe that English “hopefully” does not.
All in all, the adverbial function—both as a part of speech and as a category of
clause—is among the most interesting and challenging any language has to offer.
We use adverbial constructions of various sorts in a thousand different ways to
shape context for the meanings of our sentences. The backbone of any sentence
is about “who” and “what”—the subject and the predicate. Adverbs and adverbial
clauses answer all the rest: “when,” “where,” “why,” “how,” and so on. By limiting
the scope of absolute predication the humble adverb allows us to live in the day-
to-day world.
•
Ancient grammarians also understood the preposition as a distinct kind of word,
but they recognized what modern language historians also recognize—that it’s a
direct descendant of the adverb, and even today it has not completely broken free
of its roots. In the sentence
I’m going out.
the adverb “out” is simple. It answers the question where for the simple verb
“going.” But the same word can seamlessly slide into the role of a preposition
when it’s set up before an object:
I’m going out the door.
One can similarly use some other prepositions the same way: “in,” “by,” and a
number of others are dual-purpose words, and most dictionaries will gloss them
as being prepositions and adverbs. This is not because they exhibit two distinct
functions, but because prepositions really are fossilized adverbs, frozen in place
with respect to a noun or pronoun that comes to be seen as an object.
Some English prepositions no longer retain this ambiguity of function. One
can’t simply say, in normal modern English:
I’m going into.
or
She ran from.
	 the eight parts of speech	 17
Be that as it may, all prepositions in English, the Germanic languages generally,
and Latin and Greek come originally from some kind of adverbial formulation,
and the marks of that kinship are never entirely erased. In the early histories of all
these languages the distinction is particularly shaky, such that in Homeric Greek
(as in Old High German or Old English), virtually any preposition can be used
without an object as a simple adverb.
Language glue
There are some words that really don’t have any meaning in and of themselves—
not even the vague kind of meaning we get from a pronoun without a reference.
They don’t refer to persons, places, or things; they don’t refer to actions; they
don’t even refer to how actions happen to or on account of persons, places, or
things. These are words like “and,” “but,” and so on. English recognizes them as
conjunctions. In Latin a conjunction is unsurprisingly called a coniunctio, and in
Greek a σύνδεσμος (syndesmos), both of which mean something like a “tying-to-
gether” or “fastening.” It binds things together, and establishes the relationship
between one word, clause, or phrase and another.
Conjunctions come under the broader class that late Latin grammarians (spe-
cifically Priscian, following Aristotle) referred to as the syncategoremata. There’s
no particular reason you need to know that word now, but it really sounds rather
elegant, doesn’t it? Seven-syllable words are not that common.
Herbs and spices
When I was living off campus one summer at college, my housemates and I were
making omelets for dinner one evening. We had a variety of ingredients for the
omelet: some onions, some cheese, and a few kinds of herbs. I was gleefully com-
posing an omelet for myself when I took the jar of oregano from the shelf and gave
it a good shake.
I was sure there was a shaker top on that jar. But there wasn’t. As a result,
about a tablespoon of oregano went into my congealing egg mixture. We were
living on a spare budget, so, rather than waste it, I ate it. But I couldn’t stand the
taste of oregano for some years afterward.
Interjections are like that. They are unnecessary from an informational stand-
point, just as herbs and spices are generally nutritionally unnecessary. They fill no
real semantic or syntactic function, but add flavors—for good or ill, depending on
18	 Syntactical Mechanics
how they’re handled. A good writer, like a good chef, can use a few such words to
brilliant effect. But more is not necessarily better: even the good ones turn nasty
if they’re overused. Too often one finds prose in which no sentence is allowed to
pass without some extra attitudinal marker. The result quickly becomes cloying.
The category of interjections covers a wide variety of savory and unsavory
terms, but the feature they share is that they are syntactically absolute—that is,
they’re unconnected, not tied in to anything else in the sentence or clause. They
include things like “Lo!” and “Oh!,” as well as other expletives (another word for
an interjection) that are best deleted (or better yet, never uttered at all).
Because interjections weren’t organic to the structure of a clause, Greek and
Latin grammarians tended not to classify them as parts of speech at all. Obviously
they are parts of speech, since people speak them (in part), but the concern of the
ancient grammarians was more for the logical cohesion of the sentence than for
accounting for all possible noises people might make along the way.
More intriguing, and generally more meaningful, is the category of words
the Greeks knew as the particles. This is the last part of speech we’ll be talking
about. From our point of view, most of the particles could probably be classified
as adverbs or conjunctions, since they either supply something to the sentence
that indicates the speaker’s attitude toward it, or they relate parts to each other.
They are little words like μέν and δέ (men and de: markers of balance, sometimes
overtranslated as “on the one hand . . . on the other”), γάρ (gar: the inferential
sense of “for”), and the amazing ἄν (an), which has never been translated at all,
but which has a profound influence on every sentence and clause it touches, and
can at a stroke make what is real in the past into something that is hypothetical in
the present, or what is only wishful into something that is a possibility. A whole
book (imaginatively entitled The Greek Particles) has been written on the subject
by J. D. Denniston. This may sound like as dull a work as can be conceived, but
you’ll know you’ve arrived at the acute stages of grammatical geekdom when you
actually enjoy reading it. It’s fascinating.
	 19
chapter 2
The Parts of a Sentence
How it’s all a lot simpler than it seems, and why the technical
vocabulary really describes how it works
In talking about the parts of a sentence, we move to a more philosophical and
abstract level. At bottom, however, it’s shockingly simple. It’s been obscured with
some archaic vocabulary that students often find intimidating, but it makes per-
fectly good sense when you understand what it refers to.
The two main parts
Here’s the simple fact about speaking (or writing). The function of every sentence,
always, is to say something about something. That’s all. Every sentence, whether
statement, question, or command, does that. Accordingly every sentence has two
fundamental parts—the what-it’s-about part, which is traditionally called the sub-
ject, and the what-about-it part, which is traditionally called the predicate. What’s
more, that’s all any sentence has—there’s nothing in a sentence that’s not part of
one or the other.
As simple as it is, it’s an enormously important theoretical truth to grasp—the
fundamental fact about how all languages work. You have to be talking about
something; you have to be saying something about it. The subject is what the
sentence is about, and the predicate is what you are saying about it. This may
sound rather plodding and maybe a little too simple—but it’s just about the only
definition that really holds water in the long term.
Some modern linguists have distinguished these two parts as “NP” and “VP,”
standing for “noun part” and “verb part,” but, although this is a convenient short-
hand, it is not really as accurate as the old terminology. It’s true that the predicate
is the part of the sentence normally associated with the verb—but that’s because
saying something about something usually requires a verb or its equivalent. It is
not, however, absolutely required in all cases. Almost any student of elementary
20	 Syntactical Mechanics
Greek will have encountered this sentence:
ἀγαθὸς ὁ ἄνθρωπος.
This is a complete, legitimate sentence, yet it has no verb. Literally and narrowly,
it can be translated as “Good the person,” but in terms of idiomatic meaning, it
is the normal way of saying, “The person is good.” None of its three words is a
verb.
Latin does the same thing, almost as frequently. So, in fact, does English,
though usually it takes the form of an exclamation:
Happy the man who knows his friends.
We may mentally supply “is,” but this is considered a reasonably good sentence
without it, even in English. Hence the “associated with the verb” definition of
a predicate is at best shaky. What we can consider pretty much absolute is the
“what you’re saying about the subject” definition. In philosophical terms, saying
something about anything is called predication. We say that we are predicating
something of something else.
Predication
The notion of predication is important for a number of reasons—one being that
thelogicofthissystemoflanguageisconsistentwithalargerphilosophicalsystem.
Aristotle in his logical works spends a great deal of energy outlining the problem of
predication, and those works (known collectively as the Organon, containing the
Categories, On Interpretation, the Prior Analytics, the Posterior Analytics, and the
Sophistical Refutations) remain the foundation of most subsequent logical thought
down to the late nineteenth century. The title of the first of his logical works, now
generally called the Categories, might perhaps more accurately be translated as
Predicates. It really is nothing more or less than a discussion of what you can say
about any subject. In Aristotle’s metaphysically rooted grammar, the subject is
called the hypokeimenon (ὑποκείμενον), which denotes the “underlying” or “hav-
ing-been-placed-under [thing],” from ὑπό (under) and κεῖμαι (lie), which is more
or less what subiectum (from sub, “under,” and iacio, “throw, place”) means as well.
A predicate, on the other hand, is a katēgoria (κατηγορία)—a compound of
κατά (according to) and ἀγορεύω (speak)—from which, similarly, Latin praedica-
tum is drawn (from prae, “before” [and in some contexts, “about”], and dicatum,
“[thing] said”). The word κατηγορία (sometimes κατηγόρημα) originally meant
“accusation” in legal language, and there is some obvious parallelism here: what
	 the parts of a sentence	 21
is brought as an accusation against a defendant in a trial is precisely what is being
said of him.
The remarkable symmetry of Aristotle’s system can be seen in his use of the
same terminology in his metaphysics: matter (in its primary and undifferentiated
form) is also the hypokeimenon—that which receives form or predicates when
it is part of something particular. It would be too circuitous to go into all those
implications here, but it is important to understand that the idea of predication, as
something that happens to a subject, runs very deep, and its consequences have
been worked out fairly well. Any predicate noun or predicate adjective can form
a predicate, though often it’s accompanied by a verb of being; any action verb can
form a predicate as well.
Predication, therefore, is merely the action of attaching a predicate to a sub-
ject—in other words, saying something about something. This is what happens in
every meaningful sentence, and it’s all that happens, strictly.
The hidden catch is that while every sentence contains or is made up of a
predication, not every predication constitutes a sentence: some are merely parts
of sentences. Whether it turns out to be a whole sentence or just a part, however,
any complete predication is called a clause. Only a complete predication—a com-
bination, in other words, of a subject and a predicate—can be considered a clause.
Sentences are made up of one or more clauses.
Two kinds of predication
In both practical and theoretical terms, this business of predication can be broken
down into two basic types. We can predicate certain properties or characteristics of
things, or we can predicate actions of them. The first type is probably the simpler
to understand, though it is less common in ordinary discourse:
My house is blue.
My house is in Bavaria.
The distance around the world is about 25,000 miles.
This is the simplest form of predication (though there are some nasty shoals
lurking not far beneath the surface). Most such predication takes the form of a
sentence using the verb “is,” or something like it. In many languages and in many
situations, even that verb can be omitted. Other verbs that function similarly will
do the same job (“becomes,” “seems,” and so forth, in English). Mostly what the
verb of being does in such situations is to connect a subject (“my house,” “the dis-
tance”) with something that it is. The predicate is typically dominated by a noun
22	 Syntactical Mechanics
or an adjective. There’s some debate about whether we should even consider the
verb “is” a philosophically meaningful part of the predicate. We’ll get back to that
later. For the time being, however, it’s worth noting chiefly that this is not very
useful for describing what’s going on. There’s no option here for going fishing or
conquering Gaul or eating dinner. It’s an extremely useful category of predication
for putting things in order, but if it were all we had, it would be an extremely static
and stale world.
We’ll talk a lot more about predicating action when we come to verbs. For
now, however, we’ll merely note that predicates virtually always require a verb.
Two kinds of being
This discussion opens up a question that stands on the border between grammar
and philosophy. It’s of enormous importance, and yet it’s an unresolved—and
possibly unresolvable—issue.
It stems from the fact that the verb of being is used in two very different ways.
Most people who aren’t actually wrestling with the philosophical implications,
however, usually don’t have to differentiate between these two uses, at least not
consciously.
The most common use of the state-of-being verb is as what we call the copula,
which means something like “the fastener.” When I’m saying that a house is blue,
I’m attaching the adjective descriptor “blue” to the subject “house”—and that’s
all. It’s important to realize that this attachment entails no actual assertion that the
subject actually exists. Consider the following three sentences:
My house is blue.
My house is in Bavaria.
A unicorn is a one-horned creature.
All three of these are equally valid uses of the copula. My house really does exist,
and it really is blue, but the fact that it exists has nothing to do with what the sen-
tence is stating. The sentence is entirely about its color.
The second sentence may actually help explain this somewhat better, by
factoring out the irrelevant. My house still really exists, and it’s still blue, but it’s
nowhere near Bavaria. The fact that it is not in Bavaria means that the sentence
is false, but that fact doesn’t really have anything to say about the existence of the
house as such, either.
The third sentence should drive the point home, though some will have trou-
ble with it. Here the verb of being is both a valid use of the copula and true, though
	 the parts of a sentence	 23
this is still not because unicorns exist (to the best of my knowledge, they do not
exist, and never have). But it’s true as a definitional statement about the term
“unicorn”: the definition of a unicorn is that it is a one-horned creature. If I were to
see such a creature, it is on the basis of this definition that I would recognize it as a
unicorn. Thus as a copula, this is a perfectly legitimate use of the word “is.” It’s still
not a statement of existence, though.
In Greek and Latin, and sometimes in English, we can have an implied copula.
In Greek, you can say this:
ἀγαθὸς ὁ ἄνθρωπος.
Good the person.
(I.e., The person [is] good.)
In English:
Happy the man whose wish and care
a few paternal acres bound,
content to breathe his native air
in his own ground.
—Alexander Pope, “Ode on Solitude”
Neither of those makes the actual verb of being explicit in the sentence. In English,
it sounds awfully high-flown, but it’s accepted. In Greek, it’s the normal way of
forming a copula. In Latin, it happens fairly frequently. Note again that none of
this says anything about the existence of such good people or happy men, whether
there is one or millions of them—or none at all. It’s joining the predicate “happy”
to the subject “the man . . . .”
•
The other use of the state-of-being verb is radically different—it’s the one that does
assert existence, and we call it, on that account, the existential use of the verb of
being. This has nothing to do with the philosophical school known as existen-
tialism, aside from the fact that both claim to have something to do with being.
We have fairly restricted ways in almost any language to assert the existence of
something. In English we use a supplementary “there” (a word normally cited
in dictionaries as an adverb, though in this context arguably more of a particle).
“There are unicorns” would be an actual positive claim of their existence.
The existential verb of being is clearly important: when it’s necessary to do at
all, asserting the existence of something is probably the most important thing one
can say about it. But it’s much less common than the uses of the verb of being as a
copula.
24	 Syntactical Mechanics
As noted, in English, we tend to use a meaningless placeholder adverb,
“there,” when we want to use an existential verb of being. We say:
There is a delightful campground on Mount Rainier.
or
There are two uses for the state-of-being verb.
This nonlocating “there” can even extend to other verbs that are not normally
considered state-of-being verbs:
In a hole in the ground there lived a hobbit.
—J. R. R. Tolkien, The Hobbit
In Latin, the same word—est or sunt—is used for both situations, but the exis-
tential est is often distinguished from the copulative usage by its position in the
sentence. Latin authors will most often push the est or sunt right up to the front
of the sentence. As such, it’s the whole predicate, and the rest of the sentence
lives in a relative clause attached to the implicit subject, just to make it completely
obvious that the sunt is not just being used to tie the subject to another predicate:
Sunt qui . . .
[There] are [those] who . . .
Greek can do something similar. If you’ve done much Latin, you have prob-
ably encountered this construction. It tends to have a sense much akin to “Some
people . . . ,” and there it’s right on the edge of making an existential assertion.
How you take it will depend on context.
In Latin or Greek, there is no equivalent “flagging” word like “there.” Exis-
tential uses of state-of-being verbs are not left to be supplied by the reader as
copulative state-of-being verbs often are.
•
This becomes a philosophical problem when we confront the question of whether
asserting the existence of something is actually a predicate in any legitimate sense
at all. Can existence be predicated in the same way as we can predicate goodness
or blueness of a subject? Philosophical conundrums swirl around the category,
and it’s harder to nail down than one might expect.
Two kinds of clause
Grammarians love to classify things, and they’ve been at it for well over two
thousand years, so a certain amount of conventional terminology has arisen to
	 the parts of a sentence	 25
describe how sentences go together. Some of them are probably obvious to you,
but just to be thorough, we’ll go through them. You will discover that knowing
them is really not very hard, and it’s more trouble than it’s worth to ignore them.
The first and most important distinction that arises here is between those
clauses that can stand on their own as a complete sentence and those that can’t.
Clauses that can stand out there all by themselves as complete sentences are
known as independent clauses. That is, they don’t depend on anything else for their
existence, and they don’t require any other clauses to give them meaning. Most of
those things we’ve been citing as simple examples above belong to this group:
I went to the store.
Thomas hit the baseball with his tennis racket.
These examples seem fairly obvious. It needs to be pointed out that the distinction
between dependent and independent clauses is not based on whether you need
context to make sense out of them. Some sentences convey almost no information
without some other sentences around them. Consider these sentences:
He did so.
We didn’t agree with that.
I forbid it.
You really have no idea what any of these means in terms of substance—but as
sentences, they are free of all other encumbrances.
•
The other kind of clause is the dependent clause, sometimes also called the sub-
ordinate clause. It’s fairly easy to figure out what “dependent” means, but “sub-
ordinate” is perhaps a little trickier. It merely means “[that which is] arranged
under” (from Latin sub, “under,” and ordinare, “to arrange, position”). “Subor-
dinate” reflects the usage of those grammatically clever Greeks, who called such
clauses hypotactic, a term that comes from ὑπό (hypo, “under”) and τάττω (tattō,
“arrange”) or τάξις (taxis, “arrangement”). Subordinate clauses don’t merely fail
to express complete ideas; we also can’t really conceive of them as standing alone
as sentences. They are clauses like these:
When the sun goes down . . .
Whether you like goat cheese or not . . .
. . . who told me the story
. . . that it was not the same person
Note that these are not just random selections of words, or any selected phrase.
They all are indeed distinct and complete clauses. Each one has a subject (“the
26	 Syntactical Mechanics
sun,” “you,” “who,” “it”) and a predicate (“goes down,” “like goat cheese or not,”
“told me the story,” and “was not the same person”). There are other kinds of
phrases that don’t have both subject and predicate, and these we will deal with
later. For now we just need to worry about clauses.
The other thing to know about subordinate clauses in general is that each one
depends in a precisely defined way on one other clause. The clause it depends on
can be either a simple sentence or may itself be a subordinate clause that depends
on something else—with the result that clauses can take the shape of a kind of
“tree” of dependency. Remember this: it’s important.
Three kinds of independent clause
An independent clause can really have three functions—and those are, effectively,
the functions of the sentence it controls, even if there are other kinds of clauses
attached to the independent clause.
First, and most common, an independent clause can make a statement. We’ve
seen plenty of these already:
Caesar conquered Gaul.
Second, it can ask a question:
Is that fish fresh?
Third, it can give a command:
Take your hat.
Any and every sentence will do one of these three things; which one it does will
depend on what the main clause—the top-level independent clause—of the sen-
tence is doing. All other clauses in a sentence exist only to serve the main clause.
Grammar is not very democratic.
Three kinds of sentence
Now that we have the two kinds of clause in hand, we can go further and classify
sentences as combinations of those kinds. In fact this classification is really not
nearly as important as the previous one, since if you don’t know it, you can still
get along based on what you do know: but it’s worth bearing in mind, since you
will run into the terms fairly frequently in a variety of places, and it makes it a
	 the parts of a sentence	 27
little easier to talk about grammatical structures.
The first and simplest kind of sentence is, unsurprisingly, called the simple
sentence. It contains one clause, and one only. This must by definition be an inde-
pendent clause. That is, it has a subject and a predicate, and it does not depend
on any other clause for its fundamental meaning. As a whole, it performs one of
the three functions of a sentence; it makes a statement, asks a question, or gives
a command:
Caesar conquered Gaul.
Is that fish fresh?
Take your hat.
The man in the back of the store with the cat and the big red nose
gave me a box of potatoes just beginning to sprout.
Even in a simple sentence, a subject or a predicate can be compound—that
is, made up of more than one part. There is still only one predication in place.
Compound subjects or predicates can be short or long, but they tend not to be
exceedingly long:
Caesar conquered Gaul and invaded Britain.
Are those fish and these apples fresh?
Take your hat and go.
•
As soon as one stitches two or more independent clauses together with a conjunc-
tion like “but” or “and,” however, the result is what we call a compound sentence:
Caesar conquered Gaul, but Alexander conquered Persia.
Eat your dinner of fresh fish, and then take your hat and go.
Compound sentences are of course typically longer than simple sentences, but
they are not much more difficult to understand. The only thing that distinguishes
them from simple sentences is that they contain at least two predications. One
needs to remember which parts go with which.
•
Thethirdkindofsentenceisreallytheinterestingone:it’scalledacomplexsentence,
and it’s any sentence that has at least one subordinate clause. Complex sentences
can have one independent clause or more; if so, we sometimes talk about them
as compound complex sentences, but those get relatively little special attention
as a separate class. Dependent clauses are so arranged that they can be joined to
main clauses, or made dependent on subordinate clauses themselves. They can
28	 Syntactical Mechanics
become very long and potentially very complex, but they need not be. Here are a
few complex sentences:
If we die, we die.
Although Caesar was the first to conquer Gaul, Alexander had
earlier conquered Persia and parts of India.
Are those fish that you brought home yesterday still fresh?
When, in the course of human events, it becomes necessary for
one people to dissolve the political bonds which have connected
them with another, and to assume among the powers of the earth,
the separate and equal station to which the laws of nature and
of nature’s God entitle them, a decent respect to the opinions of
mankind requires that they should declare the causes which impel
them to the separation.
—Thomas Jefferson, Declaration of Independence
Although I am afraid, O judges, that it is a base thing for one who is
beginning to speak for a very brave man to be alarmed, and though
it is far from becoming, when Titus Annius Milo himself is more
disturbed for the safety of the republic than for his own, that I
should not be able to bring to the cause a similar greatness of mind,
yet this novel appearance of a new manner of trial alarms my eyes,
which, wherever they fall, seek for the former customs of the forum
and the ancient practice in trials.
—Cicero, In Defense of Milo; trans. C. D. Yonge
We can even sometimes have sentences in which the dependency forms a kind of
“daisy chain” of connection. Seldom is the result very pretty, but we can under-
stand it well enough:
This is the cow with the crumpled horn that tossed the dog that
worried the cat that killed the rat that ate the malt that lay in the
house that Jack built.
—Traditional
The more complex parts of grammatical study derive from the construction and
arrangement of these subordinate clauses, therefore, and they tend to be far more
varied in type and internal makeup than independent clauses. They are, however,
still relatively manageable if one just breaks them down into types.
	 the parts of a sentence	 29
Three kinds of subordinate clause
This is where chapters 1 and 2 come together. The trick in controlling subordinate
clauses is really fairly trivial, but most people don’t know it all the same: it is in
realizing that any sentence, no matter how complex, is effectively a permutation
or elaboration of the simple sentence, and that every subordinate clause that
appears in a complex sentence fulfills the function of some simpler part of speech in
the clause on which it depends. There are exactly three kinds of such clauses, each
taking on the role of a specific part of speech. One kind acts as an adverb, and
these are typically called adverbial clauses. One acts as a (substantive) noun, and
these are typically called noun clauses (or sometimes, in stodgier old grammars,
substantive clauses or object clauses). The last kind acts as an adjective. Because
the world is a twisty and unpredictable place, these are seldom called adjectival
clauses, though the term is in use. They’re usually called relative clauses, but there
are actually some kinds of relative clauses that are functionally adverbial, so keep
the “adjectival” designation at least somewhere in the back of your mind. It will
save you grief later.
•
The next chapter is largely devoted to elaborating each of these three kinds of
clause. For now, we’ll just offer a few examples to show how they function as parts
of speech. Here’s a sentence using a noun clause as its subject:
That he went behind my back troubles me.
The main (independent) clause here is “______ troubles me.” Normally we would
put a noun (with any relevant modifiers) in the blank space:
The weather troubles me.
Your belligerent attitude troubles me.
This impudent, self-righteous rascal with the obnoxious attitude
troubles me.
Those are simple sentences—even the long one at the end. Whatever we put into
the blank is the subject of the sentence, therefore—it’s what we’re talking about.
Normally, that is a function taken up by a noun. The predicate—what we’re saying
about the subject—is “troubles me.” So it is here also. “That he went behind my
back” functions exactly as a noun does in the place of the subject. When we use a
clause rather than some other simpler sort of noun (substantive), we wind up with
a complex sentence, but in all other ways the function is identical.
30	 Syntactical Mechanics
Here’s an adverbial clause in action:
When I was a little boy, the clown sang about the rain.
Here we have a complete sentence, with a subject and a predicate: “the clown” is
what the sentence is about, and hence the subject. What we’re saying about the
clown is that he sang about the rain. The bold portion is functioning here as an
adverb—that is, telling us (in this case) when the clown was singing. It could also
be used to tell us where or in what manner or any of those other things one can do
with an adverb. Here are other adverbs or adverbial phrases in the same position:
Saturday the clown sang about the rain.
Softly the clown sang about the rain.
In Shakespeare’s play the clown sang about the rain.
There are many kinds of adverbial clauses. We’ll talk about them in the next
chapter.
•
Finally, here’s an adjectival clause in action. It’s a little less obviously identical to an
adjective in the sentence, because we normally put simple adjectives in front of the
nouns they’re modifying (at least in English), whereas we usually put adjectival
clauses after their nouns, but their function is the same:
I killed the rat that ate the malt.
Here again, the adjectival clause plays a secondary role in the sentence—that
is, it’s neither the central subject (“I”) nor the main predicate (“killed the rat”).
It is, however, modifying “the rat.” It’s telling us what rat we’re talking about. I
killed the rat that ate the malt, but not the one that ate the bacon, or the giant rat
of Sumatra. If we were to use simple adjectives, as noted, they would normally
precede “rat” in English, but that’s primarily an accident of English (it’s different
in Latin, though not generally in Greek):
I killed the black rat.
I killed the huge rat.
I killed the huge black rat.
If we use anything other than a simple adjective, though, the phrase will tend to
follow the word it’s modifying, rather than preceding it:
I killed the rat from the backyard.
I killed the rat of Sumatra.
	 the parts of a sentence	 31
One can even combine them:
I killed the giant rat of Sumatra.
The placement of these phrases and words does not change the fact that all of
them are adjectival in function. In a language with a higher tolerance than English
has for embedded adjectival phrases, one could say: “I killed the giant of-Sumatra
rat.” English speakers wouldn’t normally do this, but Greek would be perfectly at
home with it. On the same principle, one could say: “I killed the that-ate-the-malt
rat” or “ . . . the having-eaten-the-malt rat.” Again, we normally wouldn’t do so,
but most hearers would probably understand the sentence. It’s hard to come up
with a categorical reason proving that this is ungrammatical, but it is at least so
unidiomatic that most native speakers would take some time sorting it out, and
would never produce such a sentence.
Phrases that aren’t clauses
As we have already emphasized, a clause is a formally defined piece of a sentence
that contains a subject and a predicate of its own. Every clause has a subject, and
every clause has a predicate. There are other combinations of words that function
organically in a sentence, without a subject and a predicate. We call these by the
looser name phrases, and the category includes all manner of combinations of
words, including prepositional phrases, which function as extended adjectives or
adverbs:
The car in the garage is not in good order.
He was running along the beach.
We will have occasion to discuss these somewhat more later on, when we’re look-
ing at the various cases of nouns, and how they are deployed.
	32
chapter 3
Adverbial Clauses—Every Which Way
A survey of adverbial clauses, and how they form
clusters of meaning
As explained in the previous chapter, subordinate clauses fall into three broad cat-
egories, according to how they operate in a sentence. They can operate as adverbs,
adjectives, or nouns. By far the most common are the adverbial clauses, which is
what we’ll be talking about in this chapter.
There are a few kinds of noun clauses, and really only one main kind of adjec-
tival clause. By contrast, there seem to be a plethora of adverbial clauses. In fact
there are not that many. Nine categories will encompass most if not all of them,
and they can be further clustered into a few more basic groups.
There are simple adverbial clauses that describe attendant circumstances, such
as where something happens, or how it happens. There are adverbial clauses that
have to do with why something happens—purposes, causes, and so on. There are
adverbial clauses that detail to what effect something happens—results. These are
a lot like purpose clauses, but need to be kept at least somewhat distinct. Finally,
there are adverbial clauses that have to do with the complexities of time and
contingency—when or if something happens. These are the most complicated, so
we’ll leave them for last.
An overview of adverbial clauses
While some grammarians tend to dismiss the various categories of adverbial
clauses with a wave of the hand, as if there were altogether too many different
kinds to mention, in fact there aren’t very many kinds of things you can explore
with an adverb at the most fundamental level, and hence there aren’t many kinds
of things you can say with an adverbial clause.
We can produce a rough categorization of adverbial clauses by resorting to
the journalist’s short list of questions that should ideally be addressed in any news
	 adverbial clauses	 33
article: who, what, when, where, how, why. To these we may add the equally
important question, so what.
The “who” and “what” part of a sentence are already taken care of by the sub-
ject and the verb. They are the main matter—they tell who (or what) is doing (or
being) what. The rest of the categories, however, fall squarely within the domain
of the adverb. As we discussed in chapter 1, adverbs give shape and color to a
sentence, and, more importantly, often limit the scope of predication. In some
languages, these complex adverbial modifications are handled by clauses; in
others, some of them are handled using other not-quite-clausal structures (for
example, in Attic Greek, a “clause” of proviso or of natural result is actually an
expression involving an infinitive verb: this prevents it from strictly being a clause,
but it’s convenient to treat it as one in most situations). Let’s break these uses
down by category.
Cause and effect
Many of the adverbs (and hence adverbial clauses) we employ on a daily basis
are concerned with the problem of cause and effect, and with the mental pro-
cesses that link cause and effect—namely, those involving intention or inference.
Together they make up a knotty and somewhat problematic mass of adverbial
clauses that are easily distinguished in theory, but may be harder to separate in
practice.
Probably the first sort of adverbial clause you will have learned, if you have
studied any Latin or Greek, is either the purpose clause or the result clause. These
are fairly similar in construction in both English and Latin. Greek makes some
important distinctions that add a little bit of subtlety to the picture.
The difference between a purpose clause and a result clause is easy to com-
prehend, but sometimes it’s difficult to tell which kind you’re looking at: it’s at
this point that context becomes critical. The two kinds of clause really answer two
different questions: why and so what.
Why?
Causal clauses are probably the simplest to understand and to construct. The sim-
plicity is, however, illusory. In fact, the notion of causation is a profound and diffi-
cult one philosophically: while all people—and even most higher animals—seem
to have hardwired some notion of causation (at least one reason to consider it an
important category of thought), there are few if any ways in which causation can
34	 Syntactical Mechanics
be established purely deductively. It is always inferred from observation—usually
repeated observation of sequential phenomena—and though science has come
up with a number of ways to try to differentiate coincidental sequences of events
from the truly causal, the assumption is at best tentative, even for those things
that seem obvious to us. Causality is sufficiently problematic in formal logic that
mistaken inferences have earned their own name as a logical fallacy: post hoc, ergo
propter hoc, “after this, therefore because of this.”
In terms of language, however, we need not be overly concerned with this
conundrum: the use of a causal clause implies (at least) the speaker’s assertion
that the one thing led to another. It may also represent the general sense of a wider
community (embracing, usually, the hearer as well as the speaker) about that
relationship. Whether true causality can ever be tested objectively is a separate
problem, but not primarily a problem of language as such.
An assertion of causation remains a large and philosophically based claim,
however. It is most importantly distinguished from purpose and result—which
we’ll talk about next.
To what purpose?
A purpose clause represents not the direct reason something occurred, but the
desired effect in the mind of the agent, which is significantly different. For example,
Tom emptied the pail on the fire in order to put it out.
That was his intention. The result may have been different, as we can see from the
following causal clarification:
Because the pail held gasoline, it merely made the fire worse.
The latter tells us the actual cause of the actual result, not Tom’s intention in doing
what he did, or anything about the manner in which he did it. But the reason for
doing something is important—and people’s motivations are central to everything
we have to say about them, in stories and songs and the daily news.
This brings us, therefore, to the second sense of the word “why”—why (with
what intended end in view) did someone do what he or she did? That is, what were
the reasons of the thinking agent? Consider these examples:
Tom emptied the bucket in order to put out the fire.
Cicero cleverly used his hearers’ knowledge of the form of Roman
oration [in order] to mislead them.
	 adverbial clauses	 35
In English, “in order” is not essential for the formation of a purpose clause, but it is
often used to distinguish the purpose clause from other similar clauses where the
phrasing might lead to ambiguity. When in doubt, it’s probably a good idea to use
it, unless the context is already getting too wordy.
Again, note that because the purpose clause expresses the reason somebody
does something, and reports on the agent’s intention, only a sentient agent can
have a purpose clause attributed to him or her. We cannot normally say, unless we
are personifying trees:
The tree fell over in order to crush the house.
This would be to attribute intention to trees, which, as far as we know, do not
formulate plans or ideas. We can, however, say:
The tree was pushed over in order to crush the house.
The subject of this sentence is still “the tree.” It is no more capable of forming a
plan than the previous tree was, but the purpose clause quietly attaches itself to
the presumed agent—whoever or whatever was doing the pushing. Or we can say:
The bulldozer operator knocked over the tree in order to crush the house.
We can also say:
The giant stomped heavily in order to crush the house.
So what?
Resultclausesstraddlethesedistinctions.Aresultclausecanbeseenasakindofcausal
clause viewed from the opposite side of the problem. In its purest form, it simply
expresses the consequence of some action, whether it expressed any intention or not:
The tree fell over so that the house was crushed.
The giant stomped heavily so that the house was crushed.
The bulldozer operator rammed the tree so that it fell over.
None of these examples expresses the intention of the tree (normally thought to
be incapable of intention), the giant (who might be causing this mayhem either
intentionally or inadvertently), or the bulldozer operator (probably intention-
ally). It could well have been the case that the giant was pursuing a program of
demolition; it is equally likely (from a linguistic point of view) that he was merely
incompetent. We might assume, given the right context, that he was a friendly
36	 Syntactical Mechanics
giant, and had the best of intentions, hoping to spare all the structures in his path,
but that, being clumsy, he failed.
Greek formally distinguishes between the natural result of an action and its
actual result. English can also distinguish between these things, but does so with
accompanying words, rather than through the clause’s structure. The difference
between the two kinds of result can be seen in the following pair of sentences:
The tree fell over so as to crush the house.
The tree fell over so that the house was crushed.
These may seem nearly identical; but one could follow the first (but not the sec-
ond) sentence with an explanation of how it failed to come about:
The tree fell over so as to crush the house, but the friendly giant
caught it in time and tossed it harmlessly aside.
The distinction between actual result and purpose is fairly easy to grasp: the
natural result construction, however, stands somewhere between the two, and
indeed often weakly suggests purpose:
Hubert drove so as to cause accidents wherever he went.
This isn’t actually saying that he set out to cause accidents, but it does seem to
imply that he didn’t take adequate precautions to prevent them. Natural result
arguably is more concerned with the question how than with the why we associate
with the purpose clause or the so what of the actual result clause.
The Greek natural result construction is not strictly a clause at all, since it uses
an infinitive verb (thus violating the stricture that the predicate of a true clause
must contain a finite verb), but it behaves in most other ways like a clause, and
most of the English and Latin ways of phrasing this will qualify as clauses. In
English we can say, “so as to . . . ,” which uses the infinitive (and hence is not a
clause either), or “so that it might . . . ,” which uses a finite verb (and so is a clause).
In Latin the subjunctive form dominates; infinitive pseudoclauses are rare, and
can probably be attributed to a deliberate Hellenizing impulse.
When and if: Time and contingency
Two problematic philosophical concepts—time and contingency—converge
here. They intersect in ways we probably don’t fully understand, but the human
mind has nevertheless been able to formulate a number of useful sentences that
depend on different senses of time and contingency.
	 adverbial clauses	 37
Time is one of the most elusive and evocative concepts we have. The passage
of time is impossible to measure objectively from any standpoint outside time, and
we experience it subjectively. It challenges poets, philosophers, and physicists; it
also challenges grammarians.
Time has enormous bearing on the nature of predication. The operation of any
verb depends on the twin properties of tense and aspect. “Tense” refers chiefly to
the place of anything in time; “aspect” to how we are considering the “shape” of
the action, or its relation to the speaker. Though we may not know exactly what
time means or how it works, we clearly have some very complex ideas about it,
and they give rise to a vast range of ways of talking about the relationships between
different events in time. Much of this we’ll take up when we look at the verb and
the ideas of tense and aspect in particular. For now, we’ll confine ourselves to how
adverbial clauses deal with time.
One of the things that’s peculiar about time (at least from our perspective) is
that it’s not symmetrical. The past is almost infinitely different from the future,
precisely because while the past is absolutely unchangeable, the future is not.
In philosophical terms, we talk about the one being determinate and the other
indeterminate. Some believe that the future is just as determined as the past, but
nobody has been able to prove the case one way or the other: in either case, it
probably has almost nothing to do with how we perceive the future. Whether
future events are intrinsically indeterminate or whether our sense of indetermi-
nacy merely reflects the incompleteness of our knowledge, we can speak only
from that perspective.
Accordingly we talk about the future as being contingent—that is, subject to
some degree of chance or intentional alteration. We may of course be reasonably
certain, even before it happens, that the water glass we drop out a third-story
window onto the pavement below is going to break. That’s a reasonable effect to
project from the cause—but until it happens, it is still to some degree contingent.
What has not yet happened is fundamentally different in kind from what has
happened; the present is the infinitely thin boundary that separates the one kind
of reality from the other. To say that something is contingent is also to say that it
depends on something, though we may not know what. Thus it is woven up with
all the “ifs” that surround our lives as well. The concept of “if” is tied up with our
concept of time: consider the fact that the temporal adverb “then” is often used to
follow it inferentially:
If you break the glass, then you will have to pay for it.
If a number is divisible by six, then it is not prime.
38	 Syntactical Mechanics
Doing or keeping time
The clauses that answer the question when we call temporal. That is, they’re
about time (from Latin tempus, temporis, “time”). But it should come as no
surprise that they really fall into two fundamentally different classes—those
relating to the present or past, and those relating to the future. These behave
differently, and they are constructed differently, largely because they are oper-
ating with a very different sense of time. One is determinate, and the other is
seen as contingent.
Another theoretical axis runs through temporal clauses, too: we often need to
distinguish between the general and the particular. Statements about the past may
refer to single incidents, or they may refer to a pattern of occurrence. While there
may be no formal distinction separating them in English, the meaning is neverthe-
less quite different, depending on context. Consider the following examples; only
the first sentence has changed:
Aunt Matilda visited us only once that I can recall. When she came,
we had a huge party, with dozens of guests. We served steak and all
the trimmings, and finished with a chocolate mousse for dessert.
Throughout those twenty-six years, Aunt Matilda used to come to
our house twice a week, on Wednesdays and Saturdays. When she
came, we had a huge party, with dozens of guests. We served steak
and all the trimmings, and finished with a chocolate mousse for
dessert.
The first example describes something festive, strange, and noteworthy; the sec-
ond begins to sound like something tedious and nauseating. The reason lies in that
small but ambiguous word “when.” In the second case, we could as easily have
used “whenever” (and it might have been preferable, though the preceding sen-
tence contextualizes it adequately); in the first, the idea is quite different. Hence
the difference between the general and the particular time. One can see that the
general temporal construction is a bit more like a condition: “ . . . if and when she
came, we had. . . .”
English is not very good at distinguishing these two kinds of temporal clause
in their internal makeup, though arguably there’s no particular reason they need
to be distinguished: context almost invariably steers us to the correct meaning.
Greek, on the other hand, uses its elegant generalizing particle ἄν (for which there
is really no literal translation at all) to flag the general temporal clause (and the
corresponding condition—about which more shortly).
	 adverbial clauses	 39
Some of the other temporal subordinating conjunctions are considerably
more peculiar in their deployment. We may not think a lot about how we use them
on a day-to-day basis, but we have—if only subconsciously—mastered a complex
grammar of such things, and any deviation from its norms will strike us as peculiar
or even nonsensical. One noteworthy example is the word “until.” It obviously
refers to the time prior to some other event or occurrence, and running up to
that point. But we seldom think of just how nuanced our use of “until” is. When
applied to the events of the past, it’s relatively open-ended:
He continued to chip away at the supporting piers until the
building fell down.
The building did not fall down until the last of the supporting piers
had been demolished.
It seems incidental at best that one of those sentences is negative and one positive:
the function of the “until” seems more or less identical. Both refer to a particular
time in the past when, presumably, the building fell down. There’s no scope for a
general reading of this particular temporal clause.
An “until” clause in the future, however, behaves quite differently. Here is an
example from a particularly menacing Christmas carol:
We won’t go until we get some, so bring it out here.
This “until” clause is most commonly found modifying a negative main clause.
There are counterexamples, of course—“We will stay until we get some” would
fit the bill—but they tend to be the minority. There’s usually some negative impli-
cation even in the positive version. More significant, however, is the fact that this
also refers implicitly to an indeterminate event in the future. The blackmailing
carolers are threatening to remain however long they must to get their payoff of
figgy pudding.
The trick here, of course, is that it’s not really so much about whether the
overall situation takes place in the past or the future—one could come up with an
indeterminate version of an “until” clause in the past. The point is that it is being
viewed in a forward-looking way—a problem in aspect, which we’ll discuss later
in the general consideration of verbs. There is a significant, if subtle, difference
between these two sentences:
Caesar continued the siege until he had defeated the enemy.
Caesar decided to continue the siege until he defeated (or until he
should defeat) the enemy.
40	 Syntactical Mechanics
In the former, we are talking about a particular time at which the defeat occurred.
It may have been the result of the same kind of explicit intention we find in the sec-
ond, or it may have been just something that happened. In the latter, the defeat of
the enemy is a kind of boundary condition or limit governing Caesar’s intention,
rather than the actual outcome, and it could (from this sentence) have been the
case that he never did defeat this particular enemy, but was ultimately frustrated
in the attempt.
In Greek the indeterminate forms of these clauses will be marked with the
mysterious ἄν again, unsurprisingly; in Latin the clause of indeterminate time
will resort to the subjunctive. Such clauses are, in that respect, very similar to
conditions, which we’ll look at next.
If and then
If time is the great metaphysical mystery of human existence, the great strictly
logical mystery is the condition. All deductive logical inference is based on the
formula “If a, then b.” This can be represented in logical notation as “a ∴ b” or
“a → b” or in other ways, but its meaning is still somewhat elusive on occasion. In
natural language, moreover, there are many kinds of “if,” and they tend to engage
a wide range of specialized conditional constructions. Even with those options,
conditions can be exceedingly slippery.
“When” and “if” are not wholly different concepts; accordingly, the verb
forms and framing structures required by conditional clauses parallel those used
in temporal clauses. Conditions are more complex than temporal clauses, how-
ever, partly because there is at least one whole group of conditions that have little
or no temporal analogue.
One of the things that makes conditional clauses special within the broader
spectrum of adverbial clauses is the fact that they often exert a powerful influ-
ence—beyond the normal range of adverbial modification—on the main clause
supporting them. A specialized vocabulary has consequently grown up to talk
about conditional sentences as a whole: the conditional clause itself (the “if” part)
is normally called the protasis, while the clause it’s modifying (the “then” part) is
called the apodosis. These terms, Greek in origin, are convenient if only because
they are more compact than almost any other way of referring to the clauses.
The relationships involved in conditions are extremely varied. Conditions
share with temporal clauses the free play of the general and particular. In that
respect they are nearly identical. They are also highly dependent on context. I can
say, before checking my wallet:
If I have a dollar, I’ll give it to you.
	 adverbial clauses	 41
This—without any further context—suggests that at present, as a one-time offer,
I’m willing to supply a dollar to my interlocutor, without any strings attached, for
some unspecified reason, if I have one in my possession. If I don’t, nothing else
is implied. The very same sentence, in a different context, may mean something
quite different:
If you catch me misusing my personal pronouns, wave this red flag.
If I have a dollar, I’ll give it to you.
Presumably this is an offer that is open and can be exercised at any time, perhaps
repeatedly, but I’m not offering anyone anything at the moment.
The questions that arise about conditions along this axis of the particular and
the general are therefore more or less the same as the ones that emerged about
temporal clauses when we were looking at the visits from our hungry Aunt
Matilda. It should be reassuring to know that the mechanics of dealing with both
of them also tend to be the same.
Conditions have one capacity, however, that we don’t find nearly as frequently
in temporal clauses—and that is to project imaginatively into the realm of the
manifestly unreal. It’s probably easiest to analyze these conditions as a separate
category alongside the particular and the general. Take, for example, the follow-
ing simple condition:
If the surgical tools were heated to a sufficient temperature, they
were safe to reuse.
This can be contextualized in such a way as to make it into a manifestly particular
condition:
If the surgical tools were heated to a sufficient temperature, they
were safe to reuse. Were they not properly sterilized, or was the
patient infected some other way?
This presumes that we are thinking about the handling of a specific set of tools on
a particular occasion, and making an inference covering only that occasion.
We can also have a general condition, which in English tends to show an iden-
tical or nearly identical form, though (again) context is the great determiner:
In observing a series of successful and unsuccessful operations, I
discovered that if the contaminated tools were heated to a sufficient
temperature, they were safe to reuse.
This suggests the scientific study: “if” and “when” here are very close to identical.
“If the contaminated tools were heated” is more or less interchangeable with
“when[ever] the contaminated tools were heated.”
42	 Syntactical Mechanics
Finally, we can have an unreal (or contrary-to-fact) condition:
The spendthrift medical technicians routinely discarded their surgical
tools after a single use. If the contaminated tools had been heated to
a sufficient temperature, they would have been safe to reuse.
This version suggests that it did not ever happen; it’s merely a suggestion about
how it might have been done better or more efficiently.
The first of these examples, therefore, is largely inferential. It speaks from
a position of the speaker’s ignorance. The speaker doesn’t know whether the
sterilization happened or not, but is articulating a process of deductive (logical)
reasoning depending on that point.
The second is analytical and really quite different in its implications. The
speaker is not necessarily ignorant of what happened to the tools at any given
point, but is positing something interesting about the results of the distinction,
and doing some classifying in the process. This is a good deal closer to the pro-
cesses of inductive (scientific) reasoning. It suggests a relationship (not absolutely
established as cause and effect, but inferred from repeated observation) between
the treatment of any given set of tools and a satisfactory outcome.
The third version is the really intriguing one. Contrary-to-fact conditions are
the bugbear of traditional logic. Basic (nonmodal) logic has simply decreed them
out of bounds. In traditional Aristotelian terms, any consequence may ensue from
a demonstrably false premise. It is actually a valid inference (as long as I am not a
fish) to say:
If I am a fish, the Eiffel Tower is a lump of cheese.
It is logically valid—but, while curiously evocative, it is neither very instructive
nor very helpful in most normal situations. In terms of the formation of the con-
ditional sentence in and of itself, it is a matter of simple inference. That is, nothing
about the phrasing of the condition presupposes its falsehood.
The contrary-to-fact condition, however, is phrased in such a way as to pre-
suppose its falsehood. The falsehood need not be absurd or self-evident, as in
the case of the logical fish and the cheese Eiffel Tower. The falsehood is entirely
implicit in the use of certain forms. In English, we normally use the subjunctive:
If I had brought my camera, I would take a picture of that tower of
cheese.
Alas, this use is teetering on the brink, and one more and more frequently hears
sentences like the following:
	 adverbial clauses	 43
If I would have brought my camera, I would take a picture of that
tower of cheese.
This is still considered grammatically incorrect in most formal English. In either
case, however, the clear implication of the condition as stated is that the speaker
has not brought his or her camera, and that there will accordingly be no documen-
tation of the alarmingly large tower of cheese.
It is not always clear what people think they are saying when they resort to
contrary-to-fact conditions, but it’s equally clear that such conditions play an
important role in our imaginations, and that the human capacity for hypothetical
thinking is all wrapped up in our being able to articulate ideas this way. We are
not going to abandon them willingly, nor should we. We like to believe that it is
meaningful to say—as almost any candidate for the presidency will say about a
predecessor, especially of another party—that he or she would have done other-
wise had he or she been president.
Just for the sake of completeness, it’s probably worth noting that this kind of
condition actually does have a temporal counterpart, though it’s rather rare in
modern English. It is very close to a condition in sense:
When you durst do it, then you were a man;
And, to be more than what you were, you would
Be so much more the man.
—William Shakespeare, Macbeth 1.7
“When” here is virtually convertible with “if.”
All these contrary-to-fact conditional sentences are hemmed about with log-
ical compromises and imaginative frameworks so subtle that we rarely articulate
them. They may vary wildly with context. Consider the following:
If Caesar had been conducting the Gulf War, he would have used
nuclear weapons.
If Caesar had been conducting the Gulf War, he would have used
javelins.
If Caesar had been conducting the Gulf War, he would not have
crossed the Rubicon.
If Caesar had been conducting the Gulf War, he would have crossed
the Euphrates.
If Caesar had been conducting the Gulf War, he would have had
three heads.
44	 Syntactical Mechanics
Each of the first two versions of this sentence makes sense, within a certain frame of
reference, though they don’t make sense together. They clearly aren’t operating in
the same sphere of discourse. The first takes Caesar as the prototype of the ruthless
military leader who seeks victory at all costs. What we understand it to mean is that
if someone with that kind of character had been in charge of military operations
in the Gulf War, this is what he would have done. The second just as reasonably
viewsCaesarasamanofhis owntime,limitedby thepracticalconstraintsofbeing a
RomanmilitaryleaderfamiliarwithRomanarmament.Whichoneisright?Neither
is particularly more correct than the other, in absolute terms; each has a limited but
distinct meaning to the person who said it and (presumably) the intended hearer.
The contrary-to-fact condition may require us to suspend any absolute judgment
on its factual correctness, but we can usually elicit some real meaning from it.
The third and fourth sentences deal negatively and positively with the prag-
matic geographical constraints of being in Iraq rather than in Italy. While the last
sentence is unimpeachable on the terms of straightforward propositional logic,
we will still take away the sense that, unlike the others, it’s random and irrelevant
to any sphere of discourse we’re likely to identify.
Most common human use of language would allow that the first two sentences
are meaningful—even if we cannot clearly define their respective boundaries, and
that the third and fourth are of limited but particular utility in certain contexts.
The last is unlikely to enter rational conversation unless someone is specifically
seeking out some intrinsic absurdity.
To sum up, then: we have so far encountered conditions of particular reality,
of general reality, and (specific or general) unreality. Different languages have dif-
ferent degrees to which they acknowledge or mark the distinction between gen-
eral and particular conditions in the past and present. In English, it’s mostly done
contextually, as we have seen; in Latin, situations vary somewhat; in Greek, there
are distinct forms of the condition reserved for the general (using the subjunctive
or optative moods in the present or past, respectively), and others reserved for the
particular (indicative).
All of these forms get kicked slightly sideways when projected into the future.
The future continues to support the difference between general and particular
conditions, though everything tends to veer toward the general. Because the
future is presumed to be contingent, future conditions, even at their most particu-
lar, are necessarily a bit uncertain. The future does not support a contrary-to-fact
condition—arguably because the future, not having happened yet, offers no fact
to which to be contrary. For perhaps the same reason, neither is its particular quite
as particular as that of the present or the past.
Still we are able to distinguish different degrees of future condition in English
	 adverbial clauses	 45
usingvarioushelpingverbs;inGreektherearethreedistinctforms,andinLatin,two.
For the condition that seems at best improbable in the future, English speakers
tend to say things like this:
If I were to become a fish, I would be able to swim faster.
or
If I were to pay you what you’re asking, I’d go broke.
Both of these suggest that the condition is distinctly unlikely, and presumably is
being advanced only hypothetically. Note that intrinsic possibility or impossibility
doesn’t have a lot to do with it: turning into a fish is not really something that
happens to people in the real world, whereas paying sums of money is some-
thing that happens all the time. Still, the first seems to presuppose that the fishy
shape-changing is not going to happen, and the second sounds like an explanation
of a reason for not paying what the interlocutor is asking. For this, Greek has the
so-called future less vivid condition, which is much like a future contrary-to-fact
condition. The Latin form is also generally called the future less vivid condition,
though it covers slightly more territory, and implies somewhat less about the
likelihood of the event coming to pass.
A condition that is being presented as more possible or likely (whether it’s
really possible or likely or not) takes a somewhat different form:
If I become a fish, I shall join the Olympic swim team.
or
If I pay what you’re asking, I will expect you to do a top-notch job.
Both of these treat the condition as more open (again, with no view to real-world
practicality). In English we use the present tense of the verb, oddly enough, even
though the condition strictly points to the future. Greek uses what is called the
future more vivid condition for this, and it is accomplished with a subjunctive
form of the verb. Latin will generally stick with the future less vivid for most of
these.
A condition that is being pressed with real urgency—not necessarily likelier,
but that it is in some ways more menacing—is a strong form that has no single
equivalent in English. We may say:
If you will pay what I’m asking, I will do a top-notch job.
But we are likelier to say:
If you pay what I’m asking, I’ll do a top-notch job.
Greek in this situation uses a very strong form called the future most vivid
46	 Syntactical Mechanics
condition, and it relies on the indicative. It is also sometimes called the minatory-
monetory (threatening-warning) form.
Latin as conventionally analyzed has only one future conditional form in addi-
tion to the future less vivid, and it’s called the future more vivid as well; there is no
future most vivid, technically, though Latin authors do vary the choice of verbs
to heighten the sense of urgency. The use of the future indicative in the protasis is
generally felt to be more intense than the more normal use of the present indica-
tive, though this may express the influence of Greek.
While it’s not the goal of this book to explain all the particulars of each gram-
matical construction in Greek and Latin, it may be useful to see these conditions
set out in a tabular form. Figure 2 shows the Greek conditions, taking the future
less vivid as something at least akin to the contrary-to-fact condition in the present
or past. Greek conditions are introduced by εἰ or ἐάν, and some are marked with
the ἄν in the apodosis. There is a certain orderliness about how they are arranged.
One must of course be cautious with any such systematization: because
conditions in particular are flexible, and are forced to adapt to just about every
corner of language and linguistic endeavor, they are constantly being stretched to
accommodate new situations. Hence the “or equivalent” notation for the apodosis
of some conditions in the chart: in point of fact, it could probably be provided
Particular
(Simple)
General
Unreal
(Contrary to Fact)
Past
εἰ + secondary
(impf., aor., or plpf.)
INDICATIVE
εἰ + OPTATIVE
εἰ + aorist
INDICATIVE
Protasis
secondary INDICATIVE or equivalent
aorist INDICATIVE
+ ἄν
Apodosis
Present
εἰ + primary
(present or perfect)
INDICATIVE
ἐάν +
SUBJUNCTIVE
εἰ + imperfect
INDICATIVE
Protasis
primary (spec. present)
INDICATIVE or equivalent
imperfect
INDICATIVE + ἄν
Apodosis
Most vivid More vivid Less vivid
Future
εἰ + future
INDICATIVE
ἐάν +
SUBJUNCTIVE
εἰ + OPTATIVE Protasis
future INDICATIVE or equivalent OPTATIVE + ἄν Apodosis
Fig. 2. Greek Conditions
	 adverbial clauses	 47
almost everywhere. The apodosis is still the dominant part of the sentence—it’s
the main clause to which the condition is subordinate. If the semantic require-
ments force it into another shape, it will take that shape. Very often a conditional
sentence may have something other than a simple indicative for its main clause.
Here, for example, is one requiring an imperative in the apodosis:
If you have ever visited Greece, raise your hand.
Another might reasonably ask a question:
If Caesar has crossed the Rubicon, has he already entered Rome?
One doesn’t tend to find these variations as much in contrary-to-fact conditions;
even there, however, at least some are possible:
If Caesar had not crossed the Rubicon, would he have survived
the year?
Latin conditions are similar; figure 3 displays them on similar principles. All
forms are normally introduced by si, so it is not noted; the same basic rules and
cautions apply. The chart is a generalization: one can uncover a nearly endless
stream of exceptions by plumbing the depths of even a midrange grammar like
Particular
(Simple)
General
Unreal
(Contrary to Fact)
Past
imperfect or (aoristic)
perfect INDICATIVE
pluperfect
INDICATIVE or
SUBJUNCTIVE
pluperfect
SUBJUNCTIVE
Protasis
imperfect or (aoristic) perfect
INDICATIVE or equivalent
pluperfect
SUBJUNCTIVE
Apodosis
Present
present or (true)
perfect INDICATIVE
perfect INDICATIVE
or present
SUBJUNCTIVE
imperfect
SUBJUNCTIVE
Protasis
present or (true) perfect
INDICATIVE or equivalent
imperfect
SUBJUNCTIVE
Apodosis
More vivid Less vivid
Future
future or future perfect
INDICATIVE or equivalent
present or perfect
SUBJUNCTIVE
Protasis
future INDICATIVE or equivalent
present
SUBJUNCTIVE or
equivalent
Apodosis
Fig. 3. Latin Conditions
48	 Syntactical Mechanics
Allen and Greenough. In these, as in all other cases, the syntax exists to serve the
semantic requirements of the speaker.
Some features of these charts may be obscure to you, depending on where you
are in your study of Latin and Greek. Make of them such use as you can, and plug
in the other pieces as you learn them. Much of what needs to be said about verbs
will be discussed in later chapters.
•
All in all, therefore, the landscape of the condition in any language is likely to be
fairly complex, because conditions come in so many different varieties, and with
so many different possible nuances of expression.
Even if
A concession is a kind of condition with an attitude, we might say. The foregoing
section should have convinced you that all conditions have some sort of attitude,
but the point of a concession is that the apodosis (which is, you will remember,
the clause on which the condition depends) is in some way unexpected or unusual
in light of the condition. Concessions are usually introduced by a conjunction
expressing that relationship:
Though it was raining, the soccer team was playing.
The conjunction is sometimes reinforced with a word like “even”: “Even though
. . . ” In fact, though, it’s just a special kind of condition. With an “even,” we can
deploy an “if.” The meaning of the sentence
Even if it was raining, the soccer team was playing.
is not markedly different from the above. The two can be distinguished when it’s
necessary, but it’s not a large distinction.
A concessive clause can contribute to the logic, balance, and rhetorical flow of
a piece. A deftly placed concessive clause may disarm objections before they arise.
It’s a useful tool to have in your grammatical toolbox, but it seldom exhibits any
very colorful behavior that can’t be explained by the general rules governing the
wider class of conditions.
Where?
“Where” is one of those basic categories of thought that can be handled a number
of ways in almost any language. One of the things that makes it hard to describe or
	 adverbial clauses	 49
analyze is the simple fact that we are so accustomed to using these forms almost
interchangeably that we don’t think much about them.
In fact, most of the time you need to specify where something happened, you
don’t need a clause. A simple adverb or adjective (or an adverbial or adjectival
prepositional phrase) will usually do the trick. For example,
Inside the town, everything was quiet.
or
Everything was quiet inside the town.
Here we have just an adverbial phrase. “Inside the town” modifies “was quiet.” A
slight change of emphasis, though, makes it adjectival:
Everything inside the town was quiet.
Here “inside the town” is being used to modify “everything.” Few English readers
or writers will notice the change. In Greek these distinctions are much more
pointed,becausephrasesplacedinattributivepositionwithrespecttoanoun—that
is, between the article and the noun proper—tend to take on a wholly adjectival
force. Neither of those, however, is a clause—nor are most of the other ways of
talking about such things.
In fact, most of the clauses used to answer the question where in English, Latin,
or Greek are adverbial relative clauses. This quirky class tends to undermine what
you think you know about relative clauses (and we’ll talk about the other kind in
the next chapter), since most relative clauses are adjectival. But these are the ones
that use not a pronoun but a relative adverb like “where” or the like:
The railroad station was built where the two lines converged.
Here, the relative adverbial clause “where the two lines converged” is modifying
no antecedent in the main clause: it’s modifying the verb “was built.” Similar
constructions occur in Latin and in Greek, of course, because it really is necessary
and useful to be able to say things like this. Such relative adverbs are dealt with
systematically in most basic grammars.
How and how much?
“How” is a complex word and idea; it can express either the means by which
something is done or the manner in which it is done. Comparative clauses cover
the latter, primarily: the way in which something happens. They can easily be
analyzed as comparative clauses of similarity, rather than dissimilarity. In English,
50	 Syntactical Mechanics
they can be introduced with words like “as” or “the way”:
He ran the way a gazelle runs.
Manner clauses shade gradually into conditions; especially if the underlying
comparison is contrary to fact, English is likely to include “if”:
He looked as if he had eaten a sour lemon.
Presumably the person in question hadn’t actually eaten a lemon, though the
possibility is not absolutely rejected. This can probably be analyzed as follows:
He looked as [he would have looked] if he had eaten a sour lemon.
Nonequivalent comparative clauses are usually introduced in English by “than”:
He ran more swiftly than a gazelle runs.
I have less money than he has.
Often these constructions are truncated in the execution, and so don’t constitute
full clauses:
He ran more swiftly than a gazelle.
I have less money than he.
But the idea of the clause is usually there implicitly beneath the surface, though
colloquial usage sometimes subverts it. One will commonly see this:
I have less money than him.
The latter would strictly mean, “I have less money than [I have] him.” Exactly how
that would work is hard to figure out. In contemporary English, however, this
usage is becoming more and more commonly accepted, to the point that some
dictionaries will claim that “than” is a preposition rather than just a conjunction.
Its place among the other (strictly adverbial) prepositions is hard to reconcile on
either historical or semantic principles, but the usage is gaining ground.
Again, these clauses can slide imperceptibly into conditions:
He ran more swiftly than if his house had been on fire.
These once again can be “filled in” and analyzed:
He ran more swiftly than [he would have run] if his house had been on fire.
Greek and Latin handle these issues in a variety of ways. Comparisons not
involving clauses or clause-like structures are discussed among the noun con-
structions: comparisons of things don’t always require clauses to do their jobs. It’s
	 adverbial clauses	 51
less certainly the case in English.
In Greek, comparative clauses of manner are most often introduced by a sim-
ple ὡς, ὅπως, ᾗ, ὅπῃ, or ᾗπερ, meaning “as,” but other options are ὥσπερ (just
an intensive form of ὡς) or καθάπερ, meaning “just as.” Sometimes the principal
clause may be reinforced by the addition of a demonstrative adverb (not strictly
necessary) like οὕτως or ὧδε, meaning “so” or “thus.” Other variations emerge
occasionally.
In Latin, the relevant subordinating conjunction is ut, meaning “as,” followed
closely by ac si and atque ut, both meaning “as if”:
Cuncta ut gesta erant exposuit.
He explained them all as they happened.
—Livy, From the Foundation of the City 3.50.4
Tu autem quod quaeris similiter facis ac si me roges cur te duobus
contuear oculis et non altero coniveam, cum idem uno adsequi
possim.
But for you to ask me this question is just the same as if you were to
ask me why I look at you with two eyes instead of closing one of them,
seeing that I could achieve the same result with one eye as with two.
—Cicero, On the Nature of the Gods 3.3.8; trans. H. Rackham
Comparative clauses of quantity or degree, on the other hand, are somewhat
different both in their underlying idea and in vocabulary. They may eclipse or
presuppose a noun that doesn’t actually appear:
But my mother, frightened as she was, would not consent to take a
fraction more than was due to her and was obstinately unwilling to
be content with less.
—Robert Louis Stevenson, Treasure Island,
chap. 4, “The Sea Chest”
In Greek, quantitative comparative clauses are most commonly introduced by
ὅσῳ or ὅσον, which may be (somewhat mechanically) translated as “in proportion
as,” though arguably Greek speakers understood them as something more funda-
mental and similar to our (generally technical) usage of “as” in mathematical or
logical writing, when we say:
The value of x varies as y.
(I.e., X varies in proportion to y.)
52	 Syntactical Mechanics
Most often in such cases one will encounter a correlative “flag” demonstrative in
the main clause—τοσούτῳ or τοσοῦτον.
The range of constructions available in Latin is similar. Latin is fond of correla-
tives, so you will find tantum . . . ut . . . (so much . . . that . . .), tantum . . . quantum
. . . (so/as much . . . as . . .), and so on more frequently than not.
Greek, like Latin, uses the pronominal adjective (relative adjective, if you
think of it that way) ὅσος (so much) in the subordinate clause, correlating some-
times with τοσοῦτος in the main clause. Often it covers much the same domain
as a relative clause. This use of “as many as” falls oddly on the ears of modern
English-speakers, but it is reasonably understandable, and its precision can
become quite appealing as one gets used to these correlative formulas:
. . . καὶ χαλεπώτεροι ἔσονται ὅσῳ νεώτεροί εἰσιν . . .
. . . and they will be the more difficult [according] as they are younger . . .
—Plato, Apology 39d
How . . . !
Adverbial clauses are, properly speaking, subordinate by nature, but one form at
least has escaped the bounds of this constraint and become a freestanding sen-
tence—or pseudosentence. This is the exclamatory formula:
How quickly he runs!
What a piece of work is a man! how noble in reason!
how infinite in faculty! in form and moving how
express and admirable! in action how like an angel!
in apprehension how like a god!
—William Shakespeare, Hamlet 2.2
What is normally a subordinate structure stands alone as a complete utterance,
though calling it a sentence strains the definition of the term rather severely. All
languages have their borderline cases.
Latin accomplishes the same thing in almost the same way, with quam:
Quam pulchra est!
How beautiful she is!
	 adverbial clauses	 53
Greek relies largely on ὡς for this task. In many other situations, ὡς and ὅτι
can be used more or less interchangeably, but that isn’t the case here:
ὡς ἄνοον κραδίην ἔχες
How foolish a heart you had!
—Homer, Iliad 21.441
ὡς ἀστεῖος, ἔφη, ὁ ἄνθρωπος.
How urbane, he said, the person [is]!
(I.e., What a charming fellow he is!)
—Plato, Phaedo 116d
Somegrammars(e.g.,AllenandGreenough’sNewLatinGrammar)presentfour
kinds of sentence: statements, questions, commands, and exclamations. Arguably
the last of these is a label of convenience: it can only be doubtfully analyzed as a
sentence the way the others are.
	54
Chapter 4
Adjectival Clauses—Relatively Speaking
Of which there is really only one kind, for a change
It should not come as a surprise at this point that adjectival clauses take the place
of adjectives in a sentence or a clause. In fact, they tend to be among the simplest
kinds of clause in conception, though there are some quirks about how they’re
built that will keep you on your toes.
The normal relative clause
We call them adjectival clauses here because that’s their function, but most of the
time they’re called by the more common name “relative clauses.” Strictly, that’s
a problem, because (as you saw in the previous chapter) there are actually also
adverbial relative clauses—those depending on relative adverbs like “where” and
“how.” We’ll focus now on the adjectival relative clauses, which are the more
common. They have an interesting structure, a very orderly disposition, and have,
over the years, been presented so confusingly as to defy all reason. We’ll try to sort
them out more simply here.
An adjectival relative clause as a whole functions as an adjective, which is to
say that it virtually always modifies a noun. Because it usually precedes the relative
clause, that noun is called the antecedent—but in fact we call it the antecedent
even if it actually shows up later in the sentence. It’s more a logical connection
than a strictly sequential one.
The relative clause is attached to its antecedent by a kind of grammatical hook.
It uses a relative pronoun to stand for the antecedent inside the relative clause itself.
You might think of it as a kind of strip of Velcro or a magnet, with which to attach
the clause to a noun. The relative pronoun is that magnet. Once one understands
how they work, relative pronouns offer remarkably little difficulty.
Deployment of relative clauses is a bit like a game of pin the tail on the don-
	 adjectival clauses	 55
key. You need to get it pretty close to the right place, or something very funny
is liable to happen. Misplaced relative clauses, or relative clauses without clearly
defined antecedents, may give rise to a certain amount of grim levity among
composition teachers when they are grading papers, but they never turn out well
for the student.
In almost every language that has adjectival relative clauses at all, the con-
nection between the relative pronoun and its antecedent is established mostly by
proximity—though the degree of proximity required will vary with the language.
The sentence
The car that has a green paint job is in the garage.
does not mean the same thing as the sentence
The car is in the garage that has a green paint job.
The only thing distinguishing them, however, is the position of the clause. “That”
is an all-purpose relative pronoun in English, functioning for singular and plural,
for things and, sometimes, people. Like that magnet, the relative pronoun is going
to grab the nearest thing it can find to attach itself to. If we apply a little common
sense, that will be something that can actually be painted. If it’s “car,” fine. If it’s
“house,” that’s fine too. It’s not particular.
In Greek or Latin, you have a little more latitude: because the relative pro-
noun is marked for number and gender, it’s more particular about what it sticks
to. It may leap over some intervening nouns that don’t match up with that gender
and number. Some authors—especially poets—are able to stretch the connection
to a point well past the breaking point in English terms. Sometimes that makes
a sentence in Greek or Latin difficult to turn into English, even if we know what
it means.
In terms of practical tactics of disposition, it’s worth remembering that a
relative pronoun is always within its clause. This is more important than it may
seem. In English it is very frequently also the first word in the clause, with the
exception of conditioning prepositions that may help establish its function in its
own clause:
The car that is in the garage needs new brakes.
The car in which the brakes have been repaired is now ready to drive.
A car from which the engine has been removed is of no practical use.
In Greek and Latin, therefore, there’s more flexibility about where the relative
pronoun goes in its clause, though it most often finds its way to the front. Still,
there’s nothing particularly surprising in the opening of Vergil’s Aeneid, though to
56	 Syntactical Mechanics
many a student it tends to foreshadow darker things to come:
Arma virumque cano, Troiae qui primus ab oris
Italiam fato profugus Laviniaque venit
litora . . .
I sing [of] arms and the man who first came from the shores of Troy,
[as] a fugitive from fate, to Italy and the Lavinian shores . . .
Here the word Troiae (of Troy) dangles out in front of the relative pronoun, cre-
ating some potential confusion. It’s worth noting, however, that it is not a word
that is potentially a legitimate antecedent for the relative pronoun qui, nor does its
position after the verb cano suggest that it really belongs in the preceding clause.
The only valid antecedent for qui will be virum, “man,” which is indeed what it’s
modifying.
In any case, the relative pronoun is a sort of hinge word—it represents the
antecedent by restatement, allowing us to use it in a different grammatical func-
tion inside the clause. Therein lies its mystery and its power. Therein also lies a
good deal of needless complication. Relative clauses have been obscured by an
accretion of grammatical terminology that makes them seem more complicated
than they really are.
If you have come this far in elementary Latin or Greek, you were probably
taught that the relative pronoun derives its number and its gender from its anteced-
ent—that is, the word it modifies in the parent clause—but that its case, for some
mysterious reason, is derived from the use of the pronoun in the relative clause.
All that is arguably true . . . and yet rather pointlessly confusing. One can as
easily and as correctly say that the form of the relative pronoun is always entirely
determined by its place in its own clause. In that respect it’s not any different from
any other word in any other clause. All words in all clauses have to be square, first
and foremost, with their own clauses, and they have syntactical loyalty to nothing
else. The relative pronoun seems to be partly circumscribed by its antecedent
merely because whatever the antecedent itself represents—the thing itself—isn’t
going to change into something else when you start talking about it in the relative
clause. If we’re talking about a fish, which is singular and (in Latin) masculine—
piscis—then a relative pronoun referring to it is (in the relative clause) just another
way of saying “fish”—and so it will be of course singular and masculine. It’s not that
the relative pronoun is connected by a spider web of complex rules: it’s just that
the thing it refers to remains what it is, and so we continue to refer to it in the same
way. This should surprise no one.
Perhaps a brief side note about grammatical gender is in order. Yes, it’s true
that grammatical gender is largely conventional. The fact that piscis is masculine
	 adjectival clauses	 57
really does not reflect at all on the actual sex of the fish. A male fish is a piscis,
masculine. A female fish is a piscis, also masculine. A fish of indeterminate sex
is a piscis, masculine, too. But despite this curious disconnection between the
grammatical construct and the reality of the world, the masculinity of piscis is
apparently felt by native speakers somehow to inhere, at least to some degree, not
merely in the word piscis but in the thing itself. Some occasional awareness of the
disconnection will arise, and will create some comical collisions. No language is
entirely regular—not even Latin, and certainly not Greek.
Restrictive versus nonrestrictive relatives
A relative clause can be construed in either of two ways. Most of the time, we need
to pay attention to context to determine which is which.
A relative clause may be restrictive. That is, it limits the scope of the word being
modified. This sounds very abstract, but it’s really not. Take, for example,
The shoes that I wore to the top of Mt. Everest are worn out.
Here the relative clause restricts the scope of the general term “shoes.” It adds
something critical and necessary to the clause that’s being modified. It tells us
which shoes we’re talking about. The mere statement “The shoes are worn out” is
insufficient without that added information. The restrictive relative clause, there-
fore, is essential in defining an otherwise ambiguous term.
Relative clauses are used nonrestrictively as well. Generally called parentheti-
cal, a nonrestrictive relative clause adds something of incidental interest, perhaps,
but not changing the fundamental scope of the antecedent term:
The shoes, which I have now thrown out, were too worn to put
on again.
This doesn’t restrict the term “shoes” at all—I may well have thrown out any
number of pairs of shoes. It just tells the hearer another fact about those particular
shoes (already identified adequately).
In English, parenthetical relative clauses are now usually distinguished from
restrictive ones in two ways. First, they are typically set off by commas (or,
occasionally, by parentheses). Second, there is—though the usage is by no means
universal—a decided tendency to prefer “that” for restrictive clauses, and “which”
for parenthetical ones. This was strongly encouraged by Strunk and White in their
little book Elements of Style, and though the practice really has no historical force,
it tends to advance the cause of clarity, and that’s usually a good thing. At the same
58	 Syntactical Mechanics
time, it is redundant in a sense. If regularly observed, this will lead to a double
marking of the parenthetical clause—it will be set off by punctuation and marked
with a “which.” If this is a rule you want to follow, you need merely recall that a
“which” typically follows a comma.
This is a distinction that naturally suggests itself, partly because we already
observe it in the opposite direction. It’s virtually unheard of to use “that” for a par-
enthetical clause, so using it where it is allowed will make the distinction clearer,
leaving no ambiguity about what is and what is not restrictive. At the same time,
however, there’s no hiding the fact that good authors, from the earliest stages of
modern English down to the present, can be found using “which” in restrictive as
well as parenthetical relative clauses. Shakespeare does it; Milton does it; Austen
does it; twentieth-century authors do it. It cannot be considered a cornerstone of
English grammar.
It also has limits. The boldly declarative restriction announced by a “that” in
the subject or object position in a relative clause crumbles when it’s made the
object of a preposition. It’s all very well to say:
The instrument that he played was put into a museum.
And it’s clearer than this:
The instrument which he played was put into a museum.
The latter could (at least in speech) be confused with its parenthetical sibling:
The instrument, which he played, was put into a museum.
One can’t, however, use “that” in place of “which” here, even if one is fully deter-
mined that it should be restrictive:
The instrument on which he played Telemann’s D Major Trumpet
Concerto was put into a museum.
No native modern English-speaker would say:
The instrument on that he played Telemann’s D Major Trumpet
Concerto was put into a museum.
Earlier English had a greater tolerance for such things, but here, as everywhere
else, common sense needs to make the final determination.
It is also important for students of Greek and Latin to note that there is nothing
overtly corresponding to this distinction in Greek and Latin usage. There is only
one set or system of relative pronouns, and they have to suffice for whatever one
wants to do with them. One cannot point to punctuation as any kind of historical
	 adjectival clauses	 59
validation, either. Written punctuation was not used in ancient Greek or Latin
writing. Words were not even normally separated by spaces, for that matter, until
the Middle Ages. (In 2000, Paul Saenger wrote an intriguing book on the subject,
exploring this fact in terms of writing and reading and their intersection with
neuropsychology: Space between Words: The Origins of Silent Reading.) Punctu-
ation appears in modern texts in both Greek and Latin, of course, but it’s entirely
the product of modern editing, and editorial practice varies considerably on this
score. Punctuation in classical texts is entirely a clarification of what the editors
think the passage means.
None of which means that the ideas denoted by restrictive and parenthetical
relative clauses were foreign to ancient Greeks and Romans. Greek and Latin
relative clauses can be found with both restrictive and parenthetical meanings,
and that’s not particularly surprising. Differentiating them, however, involves
catching signals from the editor (who, until you are at a relatively advanced stage
in the game, probably knows the language better than you do) and observing the
sense of the passage. In addition, in Latin (and, slightly less reliably, in Greek)
restrictive relative clauses have a tendency to be pushed forward, into more prom-
inent and intimate connection with their antecedents—sometimes even eclipsing
them entirely (especially if they are indefinite):
Qui cognoscerent misit.
He sent [those] who should investigate.
(I.e., He sent men to investigate.)
—Caesar, Gallic War 4.25
ἃ μὴ οἶδα οὐδὲ οἴομαι εἰδέναι.
[Those things] that I don’t know, I neither think that I know.
—Plato, Apology 21d
A parenthetical relative clause, on the other hand, is much more likely to follow
its antecedent:
Aduatici, de quibus supra diximus, . . . domum reverterunt.
The Aduatici, of whom we spoke above, . . . returned home.
—Caesar, Gallic War 2.29
Inevitably there will be those cases where you won’t be able to figure out which
is which. Such is life: one muddles on despite uncertainty. Sometimes it doesn’t
matter much, either.
60	 Syntactical Mechanics
Relative clauses that act like conditions
There are times and places where the force of a relative clause—the actual sense
it conveys—is effectively identical to that of a condition. This may seem odd,
inasmuch as the relative clause of a standard form is an adjectival clause, and a
conditional clause is adverbial. This usually happens in general or indefinite cases;
the pronoun is more or less invariably indefinite in sense (i.e., “whoever,” “what-
ever”) and very often in form as well:
Whoso pulleth out this sword of this stone and anvil, is rightwise
king born of all England.
—Thomas Malory, Morte Darthur
Who[ever] is not for us is against us.
These are not markedly different in sense from the following:
If anyone pulleth out this sword of this stone and anvil, he is
rightwise king born of all England.
If someone is not for us, he [or she] is against us.
Wetendnottothinkaboutthesimilarityofrelativeclausesandconditionsmuch
in English, but we often have to do so in dealing with Greek or Latin. Especially in
Greek, the similarity has some significant ramifications, because the various forms
of conditions (there are nine of them, as mentioned above) all can be echoed, in a
way, by relative clauses, which will assume the corresponding verb forms, and also
thereby take on the implications of the conditions on which they are patterned:
ἃ μὴ προσήκει μήτ’ ἄκουε μήθ’ ὁρᾶ.
Neither listen to nor look at that which is unseemly.
(I.e., If anything is unseemly, neither listen to it nor look at it.)
(Simple conditional form)
—Menander, Sententiae 39
οἱ παῖδες ὑμῶν, ὅσοι [ =εἴ τινες] ἐνθάδε ἦσαν, ὑπὸ τούτων ἂν
ὑβρίζοντο.
[If that were so,] your children, as many of them as were present [but
none were present], would be insulted by these men.
(Contrary-to-fact conditional form with ἄν in the virtual apodosis)
—Lysias 12.98; trans. Smyth §2564
	 adjectival clauses	 61
There are many other possible permutations—as many as there are kinds of con-
ditions, really—and all of these are discussed at length and with great clarity in
Smyth’s grammar, §§2560–73.
The Latin conditional system is not quite so complex, and one encounters
conditional relative clauses somewhat less frequently, but they definitely do
occur, and they function similarly. A clause beginning with a relative pronoun or a
relative adverb may easily slide into the sense of a condition, and the verb or verbs
in such a clause will normally conform to what one would expect in the equivalent
condition. These will range from particular conditions to contrary-to-fact condi-
tions, or even future more or less vivid conditions:
Quod qui faciet, non aegritudine solum vacabit, sed etiam
perturbationibus reliquis omnibus.
Who[ever] does this will be free not only of disease, but also of all
other kinds of annoyance.
—Cicero, Tusculan Disputations 4.38
This takes the form of the future more vivid condition. A contrary-to-fact condi-
tion would be shaped like this:
Quod dixisses, certe audivissem.
What[ever] you had said I surely would have heard.
This again is effectively following the verbal patterns of a past contrary-to-fact
condition: it similarly implies that the addressee hadn’t in fact said anything.
The thing to understand in all these instances, of course, is that while the
syntactic pathways to these two kinds of constructions—conditions and relative
clauses—are quite different, their semantic burden is very similar. Syntax, as
always, exists to serve semantics.
Connecting relatives
It occasionally happens in English (less frequently in Greek, and more so in Latin)
that a sentence will begin with a relative pronoun that is not in fact modifying a
word in the current sentence, but rather refers either to a particular word in the
preceding sentence, or else to the idea of the preceding sentence as a whole:
We must never again be caught unprepared by a powerful enemy.
Which being said, we should begin to strengthen our intelligence
networks immediately.
62	 Syntactical Mechanics
With a slight change of punctuation, the second sentence could reasonably
be treated as a clause subordinate to the first; certainly “which” does not refer
to any antecedent in the sentence in which it actually appears. Dictionally, this
usage tends to create a sense of almost impetuous forward motion, of thoughts
added on to previous thoughts as they have occurred to the speaker. However one
understands it, though, it is a pattern that any Latin student will need to master.
It is almost omnipresent, certainly in the great prose authors of the golden age—
Caesar and Cicero both indulge in it routinely. One example must suffice:
Quorum est talis oratio: . . .
Whose discourse is as follows: . . .
(Speaking of the Peripatetics, mentioned in the previous sentence)
—Cicero, Tusculan Disputations 4.43
This is effectively equivalent to
Their discourse is as follows: . . .
	 63
Chapter 5
Noun Clauses—Form and Substance
The clunkiest of the subordinate clauses
Noun clauses are the least common of the subordinate clauses, and if one excludes
forms of indirect discourse, they are really quite rare. In English, they mostly take
the form of object clauses, though there are some cases of subject clauses as well.
The slippery boundaries of substantive clauses
In theory, the boundaries between these clauses and certain others become
somewhat murky. Allen and Greenough argue that noun clauses virtually always
assume the roles of subjects or objects (i.e., they are equivalent to substantives
in the nominative or accusative cases), whereas adverbial clauses can be seen
as clauses that effectively reflect the ablative of the noun. I am personally more
inclined to view the latter from the opposite direction, and say that the ablative
case has chiefly adverbial functions.
Closely allied to genuine noun clauses are certain pseudoclauses—not actually
engaging finite verbs, but doing their work with infinitives or participles—that
accomplish the function we would normally assign to a clause. Under such a
heading fall Latin constructions with the accusative and infinitive, including those
following iubeo and veto and their kin, as do Greek uses of the accusative and
infinitive, which are many. Most of the Latin constructions that work this way can
take either the subjunctive or the accusative and infinitive.
Verbs of determining, permitting, decreeing, and so on work this way:
Permisit ut faceret . . .
He permitted that he might make/do . . .
(I.e., He allowed him to make/do . . .)
64	 Syntactical Mechanics
or this way:
Vinum ad se omnino importari non sinunt.
They altogether do not allow wine to be imported to them.
—Caesar, Gallic War 2.4
In the broadest sense, all instances of indirect statement can be analyzed as
noun clauses or pseudoclauses. The whole of the indirect statement is normally
cast as the object of a verb of saying, thinking, or perceiving. Indirect command
could come under this heading as well, though the shape of the subjunctive clauses
used for it in Latin, or the equivalent in Greek, suggests that it is behaving very
much like an adverbial clause:
Proelio supersedere statuit . . .
He determined to refuse battle . . .
—Caesar, Gallic War 2.8
Praeterea decernit uti consules dilectum habeant . . .
He decrees that the consuls shall conduct a levy . . .
—Sallust, Catiline 36
In either case, we are looking at the clause as the object of a verb in the clause on
which it depends.
There are also clauses that are classified as substantive clauses of purpose and
result. These are not really difficult to distinguish from common adverbial clauses
of purpose or result; they are functioning, in the first place, as nouns, and usually
take their places as objects of a verb entailing some kind of cognitive activity,
whether thinking or wishing or striving. Clauses of striving and fearing are in
some ways special cases of this general type. They are purpose clauses insofar as
they express the cause or reason for the striving or fearing, though they need not
express any deliberate purpose on the part of the agent:
. . . nam ne eius supplicio Diviciaci animum offenderet verebatur.
. . . for he was afraid lest he offend Diviciacus’s feelings by the
punishment of this man.
—Caesar, Gallic War 1.19
In Latin, similarly, a subjunctive clause may take the place of the subject when
the verb of the sentence is itself in the impersonal passive construction:
	 noun clauses	 65
Caesar ut cognosceret postulatum est.
That Caesar should investigate was asked.
(I.e., It was asked that Caesar should conduct an investigation.)
—Caesar, Civil War 1.87
Greek has a number of similar constructions. One particularly noteworthy
cluster surrounds verbs of striving or effort, giving us such expressions as this:
ἔπρασσον ὅπως τις βοήθεια ἥξει.
They were arranging how some aid might come.
(I.e., They were negotiating for assistance.)
—Thucydides, Peloponnesian War 3.4
The object clause ὅπως τις βοήθεια ἥξει is itself the object of the verb ἔπρασσον.
Clauses of fearing in Greek work similarly:
. . . δέδιμεν μὴ οὐ βέβαιοι ἦτε.
. . . we have come to fear lest you not be reliable.
(I.e., we have come to fear that you will not be reliable.)
—Thucydides, Peloponnesian War 3.57
It’s not my purpose here to categorize all constructions exhaustively: that’s
what a reference grammar, like those cited in the bibliography, is for. But if you
go in forearmed with a general sense of how these clauses work, you’re much
likelier to find what you’re looking for. Smyth argues (§2207) that object (sub-
stantive) clauses of both effort or fearing stand “in apposition to a demonstrative
expressed or implied.” It is not clear to me that this is absolutely necessary—the
English equivalent may well presuppose such a demonstrative, but it seems clear
that Greek was capable of taking these clauses as objects on their own, without
any rationalizing demonstrative pronoun to support them. Either way, however,
they should not be difficult to understand once one grasps what makes them work
essentially.
Indirect discourse of all sorts
Indirect discourse is the thing that seems to scare the most students when they
are first tackling Latin or Greek. The concept in general is not that hard, but (as
so often) the boundaries are hard to pin down precisely, and an added difficulty is
66	 Syntactical Mechanics
the matter of tense. Indirect discourse is almost always introduced by some verb
of speaking. The latter, however, is a broad category. It covers verbs of speaking,
thinking, hearing, knowing—in other words, anything capable of sustaining a
proposition as its object. All instances of indirect discourse are about what has
been said, perceived, thought, or imagined; they treat a predication of some sort
as an object in itself.
Indirect discourse can be broken down into three basic types: indirect state-
ment (by far the most common); indirect question (probably the trickiest); and
indirect command (occasionally problematic). English, Latin, and Greek all have
different and sometimes complex ways of dealing with each of these three. Indi-
rect questions are especially slippery: they often don’t seem to the novice like
questions at all. It’s not really correct to classify them all as noun clauses—though
they are normally analyzed as such in English, and all the indirect discourse for-
mations have an object status that puts them semantically into the same general
field. Because it’s useful to survey all these things together, however, we’ll deal
with them here. So that we may have a firm grasp of the points of reference, we’ll
begin with the way these things are handled in English; from there, we’ll go on to
matters in Latin and Greek.
Indirect discourse in English
Indirect statement in English
Most of us—even those inclined to be intimidated by indirect statement in
Latin—have been dealing with it in English all our lives, and find that in practice
it presents very few (if any) difficulties. In English, instances of indirect statement
are virtually always packaged up as noun clauses, which can be introduced either
with or without an introductory “that”:
I say [that] we are well.
I said [that] we were well.
I will say [that] we are well.
Beatrice said dinner was ready.
Nothing here is especially surprising. In English, we adapt the tense of the verb
in the indirect statement clause to the tense of the clause on which it’s depend-
ing—sort of. In fact, this is yet another place where English is a bit inconsistent.
You’ll notice in the first two examples above that “we are well” and “we were
well” match the tense (present and past, respectively) of the main verb. They both
convey, to a native speaker of standard English, the idea that the speaker is making
	 noun clauses	 67
the claim to be well at the time he’s claiming it. The third example, though, doesn’t
follow this rule, for reasons passing understanding. If we want to make the report
contemporaneous with the speaking, we don’t say:
I will say that we will be well.
To a native English-speaker, that would convey the notion that our well-being is
projected forward from the time of speaking.
In order to point backward or forward in indirect discourse—that is, to report
something that’s referring to the past or the future from the time of speaking—we
need to resort to compound forms using perfect or pluperfect verbs, or helping
verbs of one sort or another:
I said that we had been well.
I said we would be well.
I say that we have been well.
I say we will be well.
I will say we have been well.
I will say that we will be well.
Again, the future variant slips a gear in the process, but it’s at least relatively sys-
tematic as far as it goes.
English also supports what we might call an accusative-infinitive indirect
statement, though we don’t normally talk about an accusative case in English. It’s
generally assumed to be derived from Latin, and tends to feel rather stilted. It’s
used when one wants to affect a formal or Latinate style, or when differentiating
particular subtleties of tense is very important:
I said him to be a fool.
I reported them to be departing.
He said them to have departed.
None of these fits very naturally into English, and mostly their use is an affecta-
tion, but one meets them occasionally. In the more complex cases (like the last of
the previous examples) they can seem very strained. In other situations, they’re
pretty common, and tolerated much better:
He considers me a nitwit.
Such things were more common when Latin infused the learned English-speaking
world more thoroughly than it does now. Here, for example, even the infinitive
(“to be”) can be omitted without any loss of meaning:
68	 Syntactical Mechanics
Think we King Harry strong;
And, princes, look you strongly arm to meet him.
—William Shakespeare, Henry V 2.4
We’ll talk a bit more about how these accusative-infinitive constructions work—
especially their tense relationships—when we get to the Latin forms of indirect
statement.
Indirect question in English
In English we usually talk only about actual reported questions as indirect ques-
tion. In their simplest forms, these are quite manageable:
He asked who had brought the hot dogs.
I wonder whether we are going to survive.
These are pretty straightforward, since they usually show up with a word of speak-
ing or (specifically) questioning, and then something indicating the substance of
the question.
There is a large class of other material that tends to be treated in Latin and
Greek as indirect question, and which offers a good deal of grief to beginning
students. Consider the following:
I asked how many people were coming to dinner.
I didn’t know how many people were coming to dinner.
He told me how many people were coming to dinner.
I told him what the dinner would cost.
When I know the gentleman, I’ll tell him what you say.
—William Shakespeare, Much Ado about Nothing 2.1
As we progress down this list of examples, we wind up further and further from
anything that is really obviously an indirect question in the basic sense of the term.
What we are looking at in all cases, however, is a situation where we have the
answer to an implicit question, and where the answer is not itself given in the
way the phrase is set out. The problem is that there are many subtle gradations
of meaning here. At some point, as in the last example, the line between this
kind of indirect question and a simple relative clause becomes very thin. How
we understand “I’ll tell him what you say,” in particular, depends on the speaker’s
intention. If he means that he will report the facts that have been (incidentally)
garnered from his interlocutor, then it’s effectively a relative clause, and not an
	 noun clauses	 69
indirect question: “I’ll tell him [that] which you say.” If his intention is to report
whatever the interlocutor tells him, then it’s a true indirect question: “I’ll tell him
what[ever] you say.”
Indirect command in English
Indirect command is one of the simpler things to do in English, since we almost
always just rope in an infinitive, and leave it at that. Since commands in the real
world almost invariably point forward in time, there is not much potential for
confusion on tense here, either:
I told him to lock the gate.
I am telling you to lock the gate.
I will tell her to lock the gate.
As noted, the simple infinitive completes the job unequivocally and completely.
One can also use a subjunctive object clause, however, especially with certain
verbs of commanding, especially if the speaker wants to appear somewhat more
courteous:
I commanded that he lock the gate.
We require that you fill out this form.
Here the “that” is less likely to be omitted, though it may be in some circum-
stances:
I insist you pay us a visit this evening.
These structures are particularly worth bearing in mind because they correspond
fairly closely to similar structures in Latin and Greek.
Indirect discourse in Latin
The chief real problem in mastering Latin indirect discourse (oratio obliqua) is
that the three types—statement, question, and command—take completely dif-
ferent forms. This can prove disorienting to students at first, though in due course
all three types can become quite comfortable.
The more interesting issue with indirect discourse in general is that, especially
in certain authors, such as Caesar, it can go on for pages, all depending on a single
verb of speaking. At this point, certain other patterns for oratio obliqua appear,
but probably the best place to learn those is in a prose composition textbook.
70	 Syntactical Mechanics
Indirect statement in Latin
Indirect statement in Latin terrifies students quite unnecessarily. It seems to be
rule driven and very mechanical, but once one gets the hang of it, it’s really quite
manageable. It tends to be extremely precise as well, which is always an advantage.
The dominant form of Classical Latin indirect statement is an infinitive phrase
with its subject in the accusative. That’s not a noun clause, strictly, since it doesn’t
contain a finite verb. It can be understood as taking the subject of the indirect
statement as the object of the verb of speaking, and using the infinitive from there:
Dico Caesarem venire.
I say Caesar to be coming.
(I.e., I say [that] Caesar is coming.)
The elegance of the system is its simplicity: the verb of saying is positioned how-
ever it needs to be in time—I said, I say, or I will say—and the infinitive takes its
tense relative to that position in time. Hence:
Dico Caesarem venire.
I say [that] Caesar is coming (now, while I’m saying it).
Dixi Caesarem venire.
I said [that] Caesar was coming (while I was saying it).
Dicam Caesarem venire.
I will say [that] Caesar is coming (again, at the time I say it).
The infinitives swing from that point as on a kind of pivot:
Dico Caesarem venisse.
I say Caesar to have come (to be in a state of having come).
(I.e., I say [that] Caesar has come.)
Dico Caesarem venturum esse.
I say Caesar to be about to come.
(I.e., I say [that] Caesar will be coming.)
Dicebam Caesarem venturum esse.
I was saying Caesar to be about to come.
(I.e., I was saying [that] Caesar would come.)
	 noun clauses	 71
And so on. All the possible permutations can be spun out systematically
from here, and the precision is virtually guaranteed. The chief obstacle for
English-speaking students is the fact that the tense of the infinitive is relative to
the time of speaking, and need not undergo any change of form to accommodate
itself to that time.
The peculiar case in which the subject of the verb of speaking is the same as
the subject of the indirect statement probably needs a little extra elaboration,
especially since it differs so interestingly from the way Greek does the same job.
In Latin, when this occurs (that is, when the speaker is talking about himself or
herself), the reflexive personal pronoun (me, te, nos, or vos for the first and second
persons; se [accusative] good for all genders and both numbers, for the third per-
son) takes on the role. Hence if Caesar’s original statement was
Veni, vidi, vici.
I came, I saw, I conquered.
his own later report of it could be
Dixi me venisse, vidisse, vicisse.
I said myself to have come, to have seen, [and] to have conquered.
(I.e., I said that I had come, had seen, and had conquered.)
Someone else, speaking to Caesar, might say:
Dixisti te venisse, vidisse, vicisse.
You said yourself to have come, to have seen, to have conquered.
(I.e., You said that you had come, had seen, and had conquered.)
A historian, writing about Caesar in the third person (or Caesar, writing about
himself in the third person, as he so often did), would say:
Caesar dixit se venisse, vidisse, vicisse.
Caesar said himself to have come, to have seen, [and] to have
conquered.
(I.e., Caesar said that he had come, seen, and conquered.)
It’s wonderfully systematic and regular, and forms a robust system. In all these
cases,theuseofthereflexivespecificallyassuresusthatthespeakeristalkingabout
himself or herself. If that’s not the case, the reflexive pronoun is not used, and from
that single fact we can understand that the speaker is not the same person as the
subject of the reported discourse. If the historian is reporting that Cicero is talking
72	 Syntactical Mechanics
about Caesar and wants to tell us that he has come, seen, and conquered, he will
instead say:
Dixit eum venisse, vidisse, vicisse.
He [Cicero] said him [not himself, but someone else] to have come,
seen, and conquered.
(I.e., He said that he [the other guy] had come, seen, and conquered.)
The historical development of the accusative-infinitive indirect statement is
intriguing and somewhat puzzling, because it occurs in both Latin and Greek,
but does not appear in Sanskrit or most other Indo-European languages. Where it
has emerged in later Western European languages, it is generally assumed to be a
derivation from, or a conscious imitation of, Latin.
There are many nuances in Latin indirect statement, and there seems to be
little if any point to merely transcribing an extended discussion of them here. A
good Latin grammar will go through many variations with abundant examples.
A lot of interesting features, moreover, crop up in extended oratio obliqua that
probably don’t occur to us very often, but need to be considered in an exhaustive
treatment of the subject.
There are forms of indirect statement in Latin that are set up as genuine noun
clauses with finite (normally indicative) verbs, much as in English. They are usu-
ally introduced by the word quod. They are rare classically, but they do occur:
Scis enim, quod epulum dedi binos denarios.
You know that I gave a dinner [worth] two denarii.
—Petronius, Satyricon 71.9
In Late Latin—from a fairly early date—indirect statements introduced by quod
become increasingly common, and by what we would normally classify as Medi-
eval Latin they have become the norm. The Vulgate (Latin Bible) resorts to this
kind of indirect statement as a matter of course, and its influence over the diction
of the whole of Medieval Latin cannot be overestimated.
Even stranger, perhaps, such a clause can occur alongside or even embedded
in an accusative-infinitive indirect statement. The typical question in Aquinas’s
Summa Theologica offers a response to the list of objections that appeared first,
introduced by the phrase
Respondeo dicendum quod . . .
I answer [that it] must be said that . . .
	 noun clauses	 73
Here we have a quod-clause embedded in an accusative-infinitive construction,
from which (for good measure) the actual infinitive (the implicit verb esse) has
been omitted.
Indirect question in Latin
There are two problems in managing indirect question in Latin. One is just learn-
ing the right forms of the subjunctive to use—since we are no longer in the domain
of the accusative-infinitive construction outlined above—and the other (and more
difficult) part is learning what actually qualifies as an indirect question. This is the
problem that causes students to trip up most frequently.
Dealing with a literal indirect question of this sort is easy:
He asked who had come to the door.
It’s reporting the overt asking of a question, and it’s further flagged as a question
by a verb of asking: if you don’t recognize it by that simple semantic mechanism,
you’re probably just not paying attention. There are plenty of these, and they
seldom give students any real trouble:
. . . ei, qui quaesivisset quid primum esset in dicendo . . .
. . . to the one who asked what the first [most important] thing in
speaking was . . .
—Cicero, Brutus 142
But there are other sorts of indirect questions as well, and Latin makes particu-
larly heavy use of them. Anything in which we refer to what would be the answer
of a question in terms of that question—even if it’s not phrased as a question—is likely
to fall into indirect question in Latin. Another way of thinking about it is to deter-
mine whether the thing being referred to is itself known or unknown. This may be
introduced by a verb of asking, but it can also extend to verbs of hearing, thinking,
knowing or not knowing, and doubting or certainty—in short, virtually anything
representing any sort of cognitive activity. Hence, though it no longer seems like a
question, Latin would regard this as an indirect question too:
I told him who had come to the door.
Once you really grasp this concept on its own terms, the idea becomes a lot
simpler. One can, for a time, rely on the idea that it expresses the answer to a
question, but even that’s a somewhat opportunistic definition. Eventually one can
come to a more intuitive understanding of what kind of clause will appear this
74	 Syntactical Mechanics
way. Probably the better point to hold onto is the known/unknown dichotomy.
For example:
Sit denique inscriptum in fronte unius cuiusque, quid de re publica
sentiat.
Finally, let it be inscribed on the forehead of each and every one, what
he thinks of the Republic.
—Cicero, Against Catiline 1.32
Here Cicero is not asking what each person thinks of the Republic, nor is he
reporting anyone else asking—but the “what he thinks” clause is an indirect ques-
tion nevertheless (and hence engages the subjunctive verb sentiat) because quid
is a placeholder, like the algebraist’s x, for an unknown value. It’s the answer to
a question, even if nobody is asking the question in so many words. If it were a
known value, the whole would assume the shape of a relative clause, the relative
pronoun would be quod (perhaps with an antecedent id), and the verb would be
in the indicative mood.
Indirect command in Latin
In extended indirect discourse where the verb of speaking has been left behind,
imperative clauses will normally become substantive clauses, and usually of a sort
that is broadly identified as a substantive clause of purpose. One might debate
whether it’s strictly a clause of purpose or something else. In construction, how-
ever, these clauses are not far different from clauses of effort or striving.
In a more restrictive reporting of a single indirect command, a great deal will
depend on the exact verb of commanding used: some are happier introducing a
substantive clause of purpose, while others are happier with the infinitive. These
details need to be learned as lexical specifics, from a good dictionary:
. . . his uti conquirerent et reducerent . . . imperavit;
. . . he commanded that they seek and bring back [to him] . . .
—Caesar, Gallic War 1.28
But this is also possible:
. . . ad eum locum fluminis navibus iunctis pontem imperant fieri . . .
. . . they order a bridge of linked vessels to be built at that point in the
river . . .
—Caesar, Civil War 1.61
	 noun clauses	 75
A certain amount of flexibility is required. For the English-speaking student, the
infinitive form is probably the easiest to comprehend. The substantive clause—be
it of purpose or something akin to purpose—is the one to concentrate on mas-
tering.
Indirect discourse in Greek
Greek tends to complicate where Latin simplifies. It has not two forms of indirect
statement but three. They can’t be varied freely, however—one can’t simply elect
to use whichever one is most appealing at the moment. The range of options will
depend largely on the verb of speaking we choose. In this respect Greek is not very
different from English, where one might easily encounter
I consider her to be the foremost expert in the subject.
or simply
I consider her the foremost expert in the subject.
But we are far less likely to see the same construction with certain other verbs of
speaking:
I say her to be the foremost expert in the subject.
And without the infinitive, the same sentence would be virtually unheard of, and
possibly not even understood very well:
I say her the foremost expert in the subject.
Indirect statement in Greek
Greek forms indirect statements three ways:
1. With the accusative and an infinitive (like the preferred form for Classical
Latin)
2. With an object clause introduced by a conjunction (ὅτι or ὡς)
3. With the accusative and a participle
Figure 4 shows the most common verbs of speaking, perceiving, and thinking and
the forms of indirect statement that each can take. Most can take more than one,
and the pattern may initially seem fairly intimidating. In fact one need remember
only a few rules: νομίζω and φημί (both very common) take only the infinitive;
λέγω (probably the most common verb of speaking overall) takes either the infini-
tive or a finite clause. All the rest take a finite clause or the participial construction,
76	 Syntactical Mechanics
but not the infinitive. There are other verbs of speaking, thinking, and perceiving,
but this short list will take a student a long way.
The Greek form most like the English form is the construction with ὅτι or ὡς,
which mean “that” or “as.” The reported speech following is a normal finite clause.
Where it differs from English most noticeably is in how it deals with changes of
tense. In English we say:
I say that Socrates is teaching the citizens.
but
I said that Socrates was teaching the citizens.
Greek (quite reasonably) changes the verb of speaking in accordance with
the time of speaking. There’s nothing surprising there. But in the interior of the
indirect statement, it does not change the tense of the verb of the reported speech
at all. The tense remains unchanged, and if the verb of speaking is in primary
sequence (that is, time present or future, including the perfect), it will leave the
reported verb unchanged entirely. In secondary sequence (anything in the past,
including the pluperfect), however—in a very clear expression of the odd rela-
tionship that exists between the tenses of Greek and its moods—it will normally
Verb Infinitive Clause Participle
ἀγγέλλω (announce) — ■ ■
αἰσθάνομαι (perceive) — ■ ■
ἀκούω (hear) — ■ ■
δείκνυμι (show) — ■ ■
δηλόω (clarify) — ■ ■
γιγνώσκω (know) — ■ ■
λέγω (say) ■ ■ —
μανθάνω (learn, understand) — ■ ■
νομίζω (think) ■ — —
ὁράω (see) — ■ ■
φημί (say) ■ — —
Fig. 4. Greek Forms of Indirect Statement
	 noun clauses	 77
change its indicative verbs to the same tense of the optative mood. Hence:
λέγω ὅτι ὁ Σωκράτης τοὺς πολίτας παιδεύει.
I say that Socrates is teaching the citizens.
but
εἶπον ὅτι ὁ Σωκράτης τοὺς πολίτας παιδεύοι.
I said that Socrates was teaching the citizens.
To make matters all the odder, there are occasions when this latter convention
is disregarded, and the indicative verb is not changed at all. This so-called retained
indicative usually suggests greater emphasis or urgency. There’s no direct way to
translate that nuance of expression, but it might be rendered as follows:
εἶπον ὅτι ὁ Σωκράτης τοὺς πολίτας παιδεύει.
I said that Socrates was indeed teaching the citizens.
This finite-clause form of the indirect statement in Greek is not required by any
given verb of speaking: it’s always an alternative form. As you can see in the chart,
only two verbs—νομίζω and φημί—do not normally allow it, though there are
recorded cases of both using this construction as well. Accordingly, the finite
clause is very versatile. It is very frequent with λέγω in all its forms.
The form of indirect statement most closely approximating the Latin is built
from an accusative subject (functionally the object of the verb of saying) and the
infinitive. The verb λέγω can be used this way, though it seems to prefer the finite
clause; νομίζω and φημί are normally used this way. As in Latin, the tenses of the
infinitive are entirely relative, and hence they remain completely unchanged by
the tense of the verb of speaking. Hence:
νομίζω τὸν Σωκράτη τοὺς πολίτας παιδεύειν.
I think Socrates to be teaching the citizens.
(I.e., I think that Socrates is teaching the citizens.)
ἐνόμισα τὸν Σωκράτη τοὺς πολίτας παιδεύειν.
I thought Socrates to be teaching the citizens.
(I.e., I thought that Socrates was teaching the citizens.)
The third form of indirect statement is similar; its subject is once again the
accusative object of the verb of saying, but the infinitive of the reported verb is
replaced with a participle. It is not the most commonly employed of the three
Greek forms, since λέγω, φημί, and νομίζω are dominant. But it’s very broadly
78	 Syntactical Mechanics
applied in another sense: it goes with a wide range of verbs of speaking, as the
chart shows, but they all can use the finite-clause construction as well. As with
the accusative-infinitive form, the tenses in the accusative-participial form are
entirely relative to the time of speaking: they don’t change with the tense of the
verb of speaking. Hence:
ἀγγέλλω τὸν Σωκράτη τοὺς πολίτας παιδεύοντα.
I announce Socrates teaching the citizens.
(I.e., I announce that Socrates is teaching the citizens.)
ἤγγειλα τὸν Σοκράτη τοὺς πολίτας παιδεύοντα.
I announced Socrates teaching the citizens.
(I.e., I announced that Socrates was teaching the citizens.)
This may seem to be another manifestation of the Greek fondness for the par-
ticiple, but once again it’s not nearly as foreign to English as it may seem. We use
something similar with certain verbs of speaking and perceiving, too:
The senator confessed to lying under oath.
Al denied having eaten the cookies.
The range of words introducing indirect statement is quite large in almost any
language, and the further one gets from the most neutral (like English “say”), the
more flexible and interesting the surrounding structures become.
While many would claim that these constructions are basically arbitrary, I’m
less sanguine about that: I think one could argue that each one of them expresses
a distinct mental model of how the matter of the report is related to the reporting,
though it is entirely possible that these matters are not very near the surface of the
consciousness of an average native speaker on a day-to-day basis.
There is one fairly subtle but interesting difference between both of the accu-
sative forms in Greek and the accusative-infinitive form as it appears in Latin.
You will recall that in Latin if the subject of the verb of speaking and the subject
of the indirect statement itself are the same, the speaker is represented in the
indirect statement by a reflexive pronoun in the accusative (me, te, nos, vos, or se,
which would cover the same domain as English “myself,” “yourself,” “himself,”
“herself,” etc., both singular and plural). Moreover, if the internal subject needs
to be modified by an adjective or to take an object complement, that, too, will
also quite reasonably be in the accusative. This is firmly entrenched in Latin: as a
rule, even if the subject was not mentioned in the original form of the statement
(i.e., if it was implicit in the ending of the verb or from context), it will show up
	 noun clauses	 79
in the indirect form:
Caesar dixit, “Veni, vidi, vici.”
Caesar said, “I came, I saw, I conquered.”
but
Caesar dixit se venisse, vidisse, vicisse.
Caesar said himself to have come, seen, and conquered.
(I.e., Caesar said that he had come, seen, and conquered.)
This subject accusative se (or me, te, etc.) is not normally optional, though occa-
sionally a Latin author will omit it when trying to affect a Greek style or tone.
This is because Greek doesn’t do that. In either of the two nonclausal forms
of indirect statement (accusative with infinitive and accusative with participle),
Greek will routinely omit the subject if it’s the same as that of the verb of speaking.
More peculiar still is the fact that if there are adjectives or object complements
referring to that implicit (but never actually stated) subject of the indirect state-
ment, they will not be rendered in the accusative, but instead in the nominative.
It must be emphasized that this happens only when the subject of the indirect
statement itself is the same as the subject of the verb of speaking or thinking. How
to rationalize this feature of the language is something of a puzzle; it may perhaps
be seen as a species of attraction—which generally refers to the assimilation of
the case of one word to the case of another, despite the fact that the logic of the
grammar is in most respects against it. However we account for it, though, it’s
firmly entrenched in Greek.
This typically alarms beginning students, who consider it yet another irratio-
nality in Greek contrived solely for the purpose of confusing them. Perhaps it is,
though once again they might consider that English does almost exactly the same
thing with certain of its verbs of speaking. We can have
He said that he was the king.
or, more awkwardly,
He said himself to be the king.
but we can also have
He claimed to be the king.
or
He admitted being the king.
80	 Syntactical Mechanics
These things are lexically specific in English—that is, they vary with the particular
verb used. That’s true of Greek as well. They aren’t so alarming, taken on the long
view, though they need to be learned one at a time. There is probably just no sim-
ple way of cooking them down into a simple formula.
Indirect question in Greek
The indirect question in Greek seems bizarre to most English-speaking students,
mostly because it is absurdly simple. In its simplest form, the Greek indirect
question simply retains the original forms—person, number, tense, mood, and
voice—of the verbs that appeared (or would presumably have appeared) in the
direct version of the question. The range of things that qualify as indirect ques-
tion, of course, remains the sticky part of the problem, but it’s not very different
from the pattern in Latin. At least the forms required are predictable and reliable,
though they do need some massaging to get them into shape for English transla-
tion. Whereas English would normally say something like
He asked whether you were ready to depart.
Greek can say the equivalent of
He asked are you ready to depart.
This is jarring to many, but once one gets over the initial dizziness, it’s very easy
to manage.
Indirect questions can also follow the same sequence of moods as was outlined
above in respect to indirect statement. The rules here are many and complex, and
a thorough immersion in the relevant sections of Smyth (§2663–74) will help
clarify them. A few examples may suggest the scope of the matter:
ἠρώτων αὐτοὺς τίνες εἶεν.
They asked them who they were.
—Xenophon, Anabasis 4.5.10
μήποτε γνοίης ὃς εἶ.
May you never learn who you are.
—Sophocles, Oedipus the King 1068
In Greek as in Latin, indirect questions may well represent something never
explicitly asked as a question.
	 noun clauses	 81
Indirect command in Greek
An indirect command in Greek can be represented two ways—either with an
infinitive or as an object clause, in many ways like those in Latin. These are not
always—or even very often—classified as indirect commands, but I believe that
it’s useful to see them in that light, at least provisionally. They are also much like
object clauses of effort (striving).
The simplest and most common form is as follows, representing a general
form after verbs of desiring or willing:
λέγω σ᾽ ἐγὼ δόλῳ Φιλοκτήτην λαβεῖν.
I say you to take Philoctetes by guile.
(I.e., I say that you should/must take Philoctetes by guile.)
—Sophocles, Philoctetes 101
Somewhat less common, but definitely well-attested, is the clausal version:
καὶ ἐάν τινα ἴδωσιν ἢ ὀφείλοντα χρήματα, ᾧ μὴ ἐπεξέρχεται ὁ πατήρ,
ἤ τι ἄλλο ἀδικοῦντα, διακελεύονται ὅπως, ἐπειδὰν ἀνὴρ γένηται,
τιμωρήσεται πάντας τοὺς τοιούτους.
And if they should see anyone owing money, whom the father does not
prosecute, or doing any other wrong, they admonish him, when he
becomes a man, that he avenge himself on all such.
(I.e., . . . they admonish him to avenge . . . )
—Plato, Republic 8, 549e
All the forms of indirect command sit somewhat uneasily between this category
and other general categories involving verbs of willing, desiring, or other mental
activity. Real language has to cope with the reality that the human experience it
represents is never as tidy as we would like our grammatical categories to be.
Concluding thoughts about indirect discourse
It is not, of course, the purpose of this book to teach all the particular ins and outs
of syntax in English, Greek, or Latin. Its main purpose is to demonstrate how these
syntactic structures organically relate to the meanings they carry, and to encour-
age students to think about them in those terms. In the old English public school
tradition, where masses of Latin prose composition were de rigueur, one might be
expected to turn pages of direct discourse into indirect as a routine exercise. Viewed
82	 Syntactical Mechanics
merelyasasequenceofoperationstobeperformedonasourcepassagetotransform
it into the target, it’s gritty, grueling, and grim. Languages exist to serve and convey
meaning (and meaning alone, if one considers the aesthetic pleasures of language,
whether in poetry or prose, to be themselves a kind of meaning). Controlling mean-
ing, of course, is no trivial task, and there is some reason to take signification, rather
than mere reason, as the most salient characteristic of Homo sapiens. Perhaps that is
a distinction without a difference, though: we reason by means of our signs—signs
to each other, to communicate ideas and share them in community, and signs to
ourselves, to help us keep track of what we know or think we know.
These signs include everything from the notation for calculus to musical nota-
tion; they encompass plans, maps, blueprints, lists, databases, and other external
representations of what we know or think we know. They also include language.
To grapple genuinely with language this way is to engage with the mind and
thought that stands behind it. In the specific case of indirect discourse, neither the
syntactic structures nor the structures of thought they represent are irrational or
bizarre. Some are different from the way English handles the same problem—but
that’s part of what makes learning each new language worthwhile. Among these
several forms of indirect statement, in particular, I think we can broadly discern
two profoundly different patterns of thought.
It seems to me that the object clause is a way of encapsulating a predication
as a discrete unit. Object clauses are normative for indirect statement in English,
Greek, and later Latin. Because of what they are and how they work, they treat
the whole idea as a self-contained propositional entity on its own. It’s an analytical
way of organizing things and of perceiving the world. It’s a mind-set also reflected
in the production of abstract nouns, or in the use of subroutines or library func-
tions in computer programs. Such encapsulations can be unpacked at need, but
may be handled without doing so if that’s useful. That in turn promotes certain
kinds of thinking, and it probably should be no surprise that the Greek language
was the seedbed of what we consider serious philosophy, or that the rise of Scho-
lastic philosophy in Latin coincided more or less directly with the evolution of the
linguistic structures to support it.
Roman thought was otherwise, and Classical Latin expression reflects it. The
accusative forms of indirect statement are conceived differently from the inside.
Many elementary Latin teachers will duly tell us that
I think the man to be running.
is entirely convertible with
I think that the man is running.
	 noun clauses	 83
Yes; both clearly refer to the same thing. At the same time, they really do
differ in their approach to that reality, and that approach is part of the meaning
being conveyed. The accusative-based constructions do not focus on the propo-
sition as the object of the verb of saying, but on the concrete thing itself. What a
purely mechanical analysis of the indirect statement may consider the subject is
just as importantly the actual object of the verb of saying. That’s a huge mental
difference.
This is in keeping with a number of things one finds throughout the Latin and
Greek languages and literature; they are less common in English, but not entirely
absent. When Homer writes:
μῆνιν ἀείδε, θεά . . .
Sing, goddess, [the] wrath . . .
—Homer, Iliad 1.1
or
ἄνδρα μοι ἔννεπε, Μοῦσα . . .
Tell, Muse, the man . . .
—Homer, Odyssey 1.1
or when Vergil writes (perhaps in imitation, but perhaps as much from a general
sympathy of perspective):
Arma virumque cano . . .
I sing arms and [the] man . . .
—Vergil, Aeneid 1.1
none of these things professes overtly to be presenting statements about the men
or the wrath: they profess to be presenting the men or the wrath themselves.
The Latin preference for concrete nouns over abstract ones also, I think,
expresses the same impulse. It’s not an accident or a mere linguistic curiosity that
Livy writes not the Ab urbis conditione but the Ab urbe condita—it’s not “From the
Foundation of the City,” strictly, as much as it’s “From the Having-Been-Founded
City.” Thinking about it this way does something to your mind and your view of
the universe. It’s a good deal more than just the mere manipulation of grammar
rules.
	84
Chapter 6
Interlude—Some Historical Linguistics
Where these languages came from
One of the world’s largest and most complex clusters of languages is that normally
known as Indo-European. Its family tree encompasses several hundred languages
with many more dialect variations; all the languages now generally spoken in
western Europe, with the single exception of Basque, and many others across
large portions of Asia, are demonstrably descended from a common ancestor,
which most linguists now refer to as Proto-Indo-European. We have no direct evi-
dence of the ancestral language: neither speakers nor texts survive. Its existence
and features must be inferred indirectly, therefore, by comparative techniques,
but enough is now known that we can actually say a fair amount about it.
The Indo-European family as a whole is largely divided into two groups
known by modern linguists as the “Satem” and “Centum” languages, based on the
roots preserved in each for the word “hundred.” For a simplified chart of the Cen-
tum languages, which encompasses all the European descendants of the original
language, see figure 5. The chart shows the family relationships of English, Latin,
and Greek, along with French, Spanish, Italian, German, and the Scandinavian
languages. The Satem branch, which is equally vast and spread chiefly across Asia,
includes at least some of the classical languages of India (including Sanskrit), as
well as old Persian, the Slavic languages, the Baltic languages like Latvian and
Lithuanian, Armenian, and Albanian. Some of the world’s most important lan-
guages today are not Indo-European at all, however: the Indo-European family
does not include the principal northern Asian languages, such as Chinese, Jap-
anese, and Korean, or the southeast Asian languages, like Thai or Vietnamese.
Neither Finnish nor Hungarian is Indo-European, nor are the Semitic languages
like Hebrew and Arabic. None of the native languages of Africa or the Americas
is Indo-European.
Nevertheless, the Indo-European language family is an enormous linguistic
cluster, and a seedbed of growth and change. For sheer diversity and extent, it is
85
Proto-Indo-
European
Anatolian
Languages
Hittite
Osco-
Umbrian
Oscan
Umbrian
Latin
Flemish
Northwest
Frisian
Low
German
Old
English
West
Germanic
East
Germanic
High
German
North
Germanic
Ancient
Greek
Koine
Greek
East
Scandinavian
West
Scandinavian
Old
High
German
Gothic
Icelandic
Middle
English
Modern
English
Modern
German
Norwegian
Faroese
Danish
Swedish
Modern
Greek
Dutch
Modern
Low
German
Middle
High
German
Old
Norse
Tocharian
East
Frisian
Spanish
Portuguese
French
Provençal
Romanian
Romance
Languages
Italic
Languages
Celtic
Languages
Old
Gaulish
Brythonic
Languages
Goidelic
Languages
Manx
Cornish
Breton
Welsh
Modern
Irish
Old
Irish
Scots
Gaelic
Germanic
Languages
Italian
Centum
Languages
Satem
Languages:
Slavic,
Baltic,
Armenian,
Albanian,
Indo-Iranian
languages;
numerous
descendants
Hellenic
Languages
Fig.
5.
indo-european
Languages
of
the
Centum
group
86	 Syntactical Mechanics
hard to find anything to compare with it. It also encompasses the three languages
we’re talking about here. As the first Indo-Europeans spread out across large parts
of two continents, ranging from Britain to India, their ways of speaking evolved
and diverged. In an age before radio, television, or even written texts, populations
spreading out across multiple continents broke into isolated communities of
speakers with little if any contact with each other. It is no surprise that changes
occurred in the languages they spoke. What is interesting is that we can still say
useful things about how these languages changed, and a disciplined examination
of those changes can disclose a good deal of information about the ancestral lan-
guages themselves.
Languages change in a number of ways. They change in the kinds of ideas
they attempt to convey, and they will occasionally develop new structures for
saying new things. Profound notions, often so abstract as to be nearly impossible
to articulate—like that of the direct object—in fact appear to have entered many
of these languages relatively late in the course of their development. But in fact
such deep transformations are relatively rare. Most language change takes place
at the lowest level—in the specific arena of sound production. People begin to
pronounce a consonant or a group of consonants differently, changing where in
their mouths they are formed, or the way in which they form them. They lengthen
or shorten this or that vowel, or a group of vowels; they brighten one sound or
darken another; they allow following vowels to affect the ones that come before,
in a kind of anticipatory assimilation known generically as umlaut. (That this is
now what we call the two dots on top of certain letters reflects its origins as a
marker of that change.)
The capacity for this kind of collective drift in a population is not very well
understood, and the fact that it has happened several times in relatively recent
history has done little to clarify the problem. Sometimes it seems glacially slow;
at other times it’s shockingly quick. The so-called Great Vowel Shift transformed
the way most vowels were pronounced in English between about 1350 and about
1700, but apparently it took hold in most parts of England in little more than a
single generation—to such a degree that it rendered regional dialects of English
that were mutually comprehensible at one time virtually incomprehensible fifty
years later.
What we do know is that there is a tendency for language sounds to undergo
systematic, rather than random, changes in a community of speakers. Accord-
ingly, for example, as the Germanic languages split off from the rest, they tended
to replace whole classes of sounds with other sounds with a different manner of
articulation. The primary voiceless stops (consonants like p, t, and k—so called
because they represent a complete stop in the flow of air) were changed into their
	 interlude—some historical Linguistics	 87
fricative equivalents (f, th, and ch/h). Hence the word that shows up in Sanskrit
as pipar and comes into Latin as piper, in turn giving us French poivre, goes into
German from its ancestors as Pfeffer. The word that gave rise to Latin pater came
into the Germanic languages to produce German Vater and English father. The p
has become f (German v has the sound of English f), and the t has become th in
English.
Language differentiation through sound change has been fairly well worked
over by historical linguists for the last 250 years or so. What has not been explored
nearly as thoroughly, however, is the fact that languages seem to show an evo-
lution of syntactic patterns as well. There is some reason to approach the very
idea with some skepticism. Nevertheless, though language is constantly changing,
especially in large and spreading populations, and even though it seems as if every
generation treats the grammar of its parents’ generation with gross disregard,
I would argue that in fact syntax is for the most part remarkably conservative.
This means that if we are careful, and especially if we have several languages to
compare, we can sometimes peel back the layers of development and at least
tentatively explore the underlying ideas that gave rise to those structures. In many
instances, this is profoundly revealing, and in some it will provide insights into
some of the language’s eccentricities.
Language change happens among people, and it happens through time. One
of the simplest inescapable conclusions of that fact is that the order in which things
happen will be important if we want to figure out what is intended. A few exam-
ples will have to suffice.
To pick a simple example from the domain of sound changes, we will bet-
ter understand how Greek accentuation works if we realize that it was, in the
main, fixed before certain other sound changes occurred in the language. The
genitive singular form of the common noun πόλις (city, city-state) is πόλεως. By
the standard rules of Greek accentuation, this should not be possible. When the
last syllable is long (as the vowel omega [ω] forces it to be), the accent cannot
normally fall earlier in the word than the next-to-last syllable. And yet we have
πόλεως. Why? Well, as it turns out, an older form of the word—the one on which
the accent was originally imposed—was not πόλεως but πόληος. That is to say,
the e sound was the long one (the letter eta [η] being long, while the letter epsilon
[ε] is short), while the final o sound was short. (This also, happily, brings it into
line with a whole family of nouns that have their genitive endings in -ος.) What is
intriguing here, though, is that at some point after the accents were fixed, the two
vowels underwent what is called quantitative metathesis. This high-sounding term
means nothing more or less than just “swapping vowel length”—so that instead of
dwelling on the e for two beats (morae) and for just one on the o, speakers began
88	 Syntactical Mechanics
deferring the extra beat to the o sound, turning it from a short o (omicron) to a
long one (omega).
Similarly, words borrowed from one language into another are almost never
retroactively subjected to the sound shifts that have happened before their arrival.
(There are some apparent exceptions, but they probably aren’t worth dwelling
on.) Hence words that enter English through French, say, retain the p, t, and k
sounds that would otherwise have been lost. This can be confusing to the uniniti-
ated, but in the long run it provides abundant and very reliable evidence for how
and when a word arrived in the language, and actually enriches our understanding
of the process.
Ibelievethatusingcomparativeleverageonthestructuresofsyntaxcanenable
us, in some significant instances, to figure out where certain different grammatical
ideas came from, how they entered the language, and how to distinguish them.
Almost any beginning student of Latin hits something of a brick wall when
first encountering the ablative case. Unlike the other cases, it seems willful and
arbitrary. Some have categorized it as the catchall case; others as an example of
schizophrenia in language. Arguably the latter is closer to the mark—but in fact
if one figures out how the ablative got its meanings, a good deal of its mystery
vanishes. The Latin ablative is far from arbitrary, but it is effectively two cases
rolled into one, and these make much more sense as distinct cases.
The other side of this problem is that students learning Latin and Greek at
the same time often find themselves at sea with the apparently weirdly differing
constructions of the two languages. Latin has an ablative of means; Greek uses
the dative for means. Latin uses the ablative for separation as well, whereas Greek
uses the genitive. These seemingly perverse differences, however, melt away once
one sees what stands behind these cases. In fact both languages, though they have
modified the case systems they inherited from their Indo-European ancestors,
are remarkably conservative in some other respects, and you can see that they
are effectively continuing to use the same cases for the same things, when those
simple changes are taken into account.
A little extra knowledge, therefore, of the origins of these structures helps
simplify the surface phenomena considerably. This is the main business of the next
part of this book.
	 89
Chapter 7
Verbs—The Engine Itself
How the verb does what it does and means what it means
As I said in chapter 1, the verb is the beating heart of any language. It drives
predication of all kinds. Without verbs, one cannot say much of anything about
anything. The verb is the essential piece of almost every predicate, and hence of
almost every clause and sentence. There are clauses and sentences that technically
do without verbs, especially in Latin or Greek, but when that happens, some ver-
bal idea (usually a verb of being) is invariably understood. We talked about this
somewhat above when we were talking about predication generally.
English verbs are fairly complex, but they are relatively simple compared to
those of both Greek and Latin. Both Greek and Latin have large verb systems, and
sophisticated ways of using them.
What a verb is marked for
Whether in English, Latin, or Greek, we normally say that a verb is marked—that
is, it carries distinguishing characteristics that help us identify how it is to be
understood—for five distinct grammatical categories. They are conventionally
given in the following order:
1. Person
2. Number
3. Tense
4. Mood
5. Voice
We will consider them in that order. These terms may be familiar to you from
previous grammatical study in English or any other language, but don’t give this
90	 Syntactical Mechanics
section short shrift: there are things about Greek and Latin verbs that do not
correspond well to what you’ve probably learned so far. In particular, Greek has a
number of features that are not found in modern English or even in Latin: an extra
one of everything, except for person.
Person
What you probably learned about person in studying English is that there are three
of them, and for reasons that seem fairly arbitrary, they are called first person,
second person, and third person.
The first person denotes the speaker or the speaker’s party: “I” or “we.” The
second person denotes the person being addressed: “you” (or “thou,” “ye,” or
“y’all”). The third person is everyone else—“he,” “she,” “it,” or “they.” That much
is probably familiar. A moment’s reflection will probably serve to assure you that
these three categories of people or things will in fact exhaustively cover everyone
and anyone you have any occasion to talk about—you refer either to yourself, to
the person or people you’re talking to, or to someone else.
Greek, Latin, and English all use the same structure of persons in their verbs,
and most native English-speakers would find it hard to imagine any other possible
arrangment. In fact there are other person categories in some other languages—
mostly having to do with subdividing the third person up into proximate or distant
referents—but these don’t encroach on English, Latin, or Greek.
Number
Number probably seems as simple as person; we intuitively understand that there
is singular and there is plural. What else could there be?
Well, in fact, the earliest Indo-European languages seem to have thought that
there was a valid case to be made for another number category—what is now
called the dual. It’s reserved for things that come in twos. One can find the dual in
a number of different places—if you look at the chart of Indo-European languages
you will see that it must come from a very early stage, since it is to be found both in
the Satem and in the Centum languages—it’s present in Sanskrit, in old Germanic
languages (including Gothic, Old High German, and Old English, though it was
far from common there), in very early forms of Latin, and—most significantly for
our purposes—in archaic (but still attested) forms of Greek, especially in the epic
(Homeric) dialect.
	 verbs	 91
Not everything that is two in number will necessarily be handled with a dual,
though perhaps very early forms of these languages were more likely to do so.
For the most part the dual survives into historical time in representing things that
form natural pairs (two hands, eyes, ears, etc.) and things that function in pairs—a
yoke of oxen, or occasionally a married couple. The dual is teetering on the brink
of extinction even in Homer, and one will not normally find it at all in later forms
of Greek. Even the Attic Greek of the fifth century b.c. has all but forgotten it,
though occasionally someone like Plato will use it in quoting Homer, or to affect
an archaic mode of diction. Most elementary Greek textbooks relegate the forms
of the dual to an appendix, rather than including them in the main matter to be
learned. As for Latin, the dual is virtually extinct in historical times, and makes
almost no appearance except in deliberately archaic poetic diction or in very old
inscriptions. It is still worth bearing in mind, however, if you’re learning Greek:
sooner or later you will run into it, and it’s nice not to be taken entirely by surprise
by it. It affects verbs, nouns, and pronouns.
Tense and aspect
As a grammatical term, our word “tense” has nothing to do with tension: it is
merely the Latin word tempus (time) as it reaches us through French (temps).
We were probably taught that there were three tenses—past, present, and future.
That’s still more or less an exhaustive enumeration of the kinds of time (as such)
that we can ever want to refer to. All time invariably falls into one of those three
categories.
We may also have been taught that there are three perfect tenses, too—the
present perfect, future perfect, and past perfect. Most beginning students never
think to challenge that, but it’s arguably true that those aren’t really different tenses
at all. Anything that is reported in one of the perfect tenses still happens in the
past, present, or future. There are no other options. So why do we bother?
The reason we consider the perfect forms to be distinct tenses is that what we
broadly consider tense markings in a verb are not merely about when something
happened. That’s just part of the picture. We use verbs in speech and in writing
not only to locate events in time, but to describe what we might call the “shape”
of the action relative to other actions. Linguists refer to this shape by the name
“aspect.” The essential fact about aspect, though, is that it is not something that
inheres in events or actions themselves: it’s a characteristic of how we are talking
about those events. Moreover, it is about putting those events and actions into
a specific relation to other events and actions. Aspect lets us express complex and
92	 Syntactical Mechanics
nuanced understandings of how the various events in a narrative are connected to
one another.
We can talk about actions as simple (just the fact that something happened);
we can talk about them as things that are going on, but not complete; or we can
talk about them as things that are already completed. In all these cases, the tense
used is not just about how the action itself took place; it’s about how we want to
describe it. We may have various reasons, but usually they are controlled by their
place in the larger fabric of discourse.
Consider the following:
I was driving to school when I had a flat tire.
This is quite different from saying:
I drove to school when I had a flat tire.
Even more peculiar would be the following:
I drove to school when I was having a flat tire.
So what’s the difference between these three sentences? The tense (in respect
to time when) is the same throughout. Only the aspect has changed. The first tells
us that I was in the midst of one action (driving to school) when another (the
flat tire) occurred (relatively suddenly, one assumes—or at least I discovered it at
a particular temporal point along the continuum of my drive). Presumably I set
out for school with what I believed to be intact tires; somewhere along the way
I picked up a nail or had a blowout, and that’s when the flat tire occurred. The
second sentence, on the other hand, suggests that the two actions were essentially
separate and at least possibly unrelated. Only the temporal conjunction “when”
tells us that they are simultaneous. To most native speakers of English, in fact, the
second sentence suggests that the events are sequential, since there is no hierar-
chy established among them, and “when” is often used for events on which others
are consequent. It therefore implies that I had a flat tire, or discovered that I had
one, and thereupon set out for the school (rather a stupid thing for me to have
done, but language can describe even stupid things). The third sentence is almost
surreal: it almost suggests a slow-motion flat tire, during which I completed a
drive. This is not impossible, if the flat tire was the product of a very slow leak, I
suppose, but it is a peculiar way of conjoining the descriptions of the two events.
The point here is that we are using different forms of the verb not merely to
locate events absolutely in time, but (more subtly) in order to convey a particular
understanding of the relationship of events and their consequences in time. The verbs
in both cases are equally valid. I drove to school, and I had a flat tire. How shall we
	 verbs	 93
put these two together? Most of us do this instinctively, but any nonnative speaker
who bungles the connection will almost immediately identify himself or herself as
not being entirely in control of the language.
In English, we talk about the “was driving” form of the verb as the progressive
form, as opposed to “drove,” which is the simple form. English also has another
emphatic form of the verb, made up of “do” and the present form of the verb (argu-
ably an infinitive without its normally attendant “to”):
I did drive to school.
I did have a flat tire.
The emphatic form of the English verb is not strictly a matter of aspect but (unsur-
prisingly) of emphasis. But the progressive form is there to establish something
about what we call the aspect of action.
So what does this do for our understanding of Greek and Latin tenses? The verb
patterns in Greek and Latin are normally broken down into “systems”—an imper-
fect system, a perfect system, and (in Greek, as well as some other older Indo-Eu-
ropean languages) an aorist, which is a system of a single tense. The differences
between the three systems are chiefly differences in aspect rather than in absolute
time. They send ripples throughout all corners of the languages, and grasping how
they’re connected will considerably improve your experience in reading.
Figure 6 shows how tense and aspect in Proto-Indo-European and Greek line
up with tense and aspect in Latin. Latin does not have a separate aorist system or
Proto-Indo-European
and GreekTense and Aspect LatinTense and Aspect
Future (Imperfect) Future (Imperfect)
Present (Imperfect) Present (Imperfect)
Future Perfect Future Perfect
(Past Perfect) Pluperfect (Past Perfect) Pluperfect
(Past) Imperfect (Past) Imperfect
Aorist (Preterite)
(Present) Perfect
(Present) Perfect
Perfect
System
Imperfect
System
Perfect
System
Imperfect
System
Fig. 6. Tense and Aspect in Proto-Indo-European, Greek, and Latin
94	 Syntactical Mechanics
tense, and this has several important ramifications. Let’s consider each of these
systems in turn.
The imperfect system
The imperfect system, which includes the present (imperfect), the (past) imper-
fect, and the future tenses, functions in both Greek and Latin much as the English
progressive does. Some teachers are so committed to this equivalency that they
insist that imperfect verbs should always be translated with an English progressive.
That’s not a bad idea, about four times out of five. It covers most of their function,
and if you followed the introductory discussion here, you probably understand
why that would be important. There are, however, exceptions.
This understanding of the imperfect deals with it in a primarily narrative con-
text, treating it as representing ongoing action as a kind of context or continuum
in which to locate other descriptions of action. There are, however, exceptions. A
few of the most important are noted here.
The iterative imperfect expresses something that is done repeatedly or habit-
ually:
The ancient kings used to execute traitors.
That is, they habitually did so. This is arguably just a kind of outgrowth of the
idea of continuing action—it’s not necessarily continuing without letup, but the
process continues overall in keeping with an implicit pattern inherent in how we
think about the action. Similarly,
I walk to school.
does not mean that I am at all times or even at the time I’m speaking actually
engaged in walking to school, but that I do so habitually or regularly—I did so last
week, yesterday, and perhaps today; I will continue to do so tomorrow. The scope
of the time signified here is of course highly context-dependent.
Somewhat less obvious are some of the other uses.
The inchoative or inceptive imperfect expresses something that is being begun.
Beginnings (and endings) are typically related to things that are continuing, so
this is probably not an enormous stretch of the imagination, but it does need to
be remembered as a separate way in which the imperfect can work in Latin and
Greek, since it is going to put a significant “spin” on the meaning of some uses of
some verbs. (The present, being an imperfect tense as well, can also show this
	 verbs	 95
characteristic.) A few examples may illustrate the principle:
iamque arva tenebant ultima
and now they were just gaining hold of the farthest fields
—Vergil, Aeneid 6.477
ἐπειδὴ δὲ καιρὸς ἦν, προσέβαλλον
but when the proper time arrived, they began an attack
—Thucydides, Peloponnesian War 7.51
The conative imperfect, which expresses attempt, is probably an outgrowth
of this movement in the sense of the imperfect verb. Attempting to do something
is virtually always (where intention governs the action at all) part and parcel of
beginning to do it:
Si licitum esset veniebant
They were trying to come, if it had been allowed
—Cicero, Against Verres 5.129
ἔπειθον αὐτούς, καὶ οὓς ἔπεισα, τούτους ἔχων ἐπορευόμην.
I tried to persuade them, and I marched away with those whom I
succeeded in persuading.
—Xenophon, The Education of Cyrus 5.5.22
There are a few other such applications of the imperfect, but these are the main
ones in the indicative; the others can be garnered from a decent Latin or Greek
grammar. The full nuances of these forms are complex and subtle, and need to be
learned and savored over time.
The perfect system
When one is taught about the perfect forms of the English verb, it’s more or less
conventional to explain them as having to do with relative time. That is, a plu-
perfect verb implies something that happened before another time in the past; a
present perfect verb implies that something happened before the present; a future
perfect verb implies that something will have happened before some (otherwise
specified) time in the future. All of that’s terrific, but it does seem to leave a gaping
logical hole in the process. What’s the point of having a present perfect if its only
96	 Syntactical Mechanics
function is to express the fact that something happened before now? Isn’t that
what the past tense is for? Either of these sentences will express mere temporal
priority as well as the other:
I had a case of the flu.
I have had a case of the flu.
But they don’t actually mean quite the same thing, do they? The former is a report
on some incident in the past. It may have been years ago. It may have been quite
recently. In either case, it’s reported more or less neutrally. The latter, however,
suggests that there is something about this case of the flu that has some kind of
ongoing interest. Perhaps the speaker is explaining why he or she is still weak or
tired; perhaps he or she is explaining why the work that was supposed to be done
last week didn’t in fact get done. But the speaker is still, in some respect or other,
operating under the shadow of that case of the flu.
That shouldn’t really surprise us. Language is prodigal in its vocabulary; syn-
onyms breed almost without limit. In basic structures, however, most languages
tend to be economical. One will seldom find two completely different ways of
saying the same thing unless there is in fact some difference in their meaning as
well, and while many native speakers may have a hard time articulating exactly
what that difference is, very few of them will confuse the two forms. We know
our language in ways we don’t know we know. In this case, there is a very import-
ant distinction, which will become even more important in looking at Latin and
Greek.
The perfect tenses, both historically and in contemporary English usage, tend
to reflect not merely priority in time, but the idea that the prior thing has, at the
time that is the reference point (past, present, or future), some enduring conse-
quence. This is the central fact about the perfect tenses that most frequently eludes
students of Greek and Latin, and causes them undue fogginess about many of the
other implications of their texts.
IfIweretoshowupatyourdoor(Iwouldn’tdosouninvited)atsomeunseemly
and early hour of the morning, you might, if you were feeling generous, invite me
in to join you for breakfast. If I had an empty stomach and didn’t feel too strange
about it, I might take you up on the offer. If, however, I had just come from the
diner on the corner, where I had put away a plate of bacon, eggs, and hash browns,
I would probably say:
No, thank you; I have eaten.
We all understand the implication of this form, even if we haven’t really thought
about it. What it means is this: I have eaten, and hence I am now in a condition of
	 verbs	 97
having eaten. That is, I don’t want anything more to eat. I could also say:
No, thank you; I already ate breakfast.
But (though it is possible) I am less likely to say merely:
No, thank you; I ate breakfast.
Why is that? The “already” in the former form points one in the same direction
as the perfect. But a mere “I ate breakfast” could refer to something I did this
morning, or even something I did two weeks ago.
Note, though, that the whole point of this is relational. It’s about my response
to your present invitation to breakfast. If I were a notoriously late sleeper, one
might say:
You seldom get up in the morning at all! Have you ever in your life
even eaten breakfast before noon?
To that, I could well respond:
Certainly I have eaten breakfast before noon. Why, one day just last
month I had coffee and a roll at 11:30 a.m.
What’s noteworthy here is that your question contextualized my response differ-
ently, so that now this is not a question about whether my stomach is full, but
about whether I had ever had this experience. In this context, the perfect form is
still appropriate, however, because it’s still about a consequent state: it’s about my
current state of having experienced the delights of eating breakfast in the morning.
None of this, as it turns out, is new at all. In fact, it’s one of the oldest things
about our language, and herein lies the key to understanding the Latin and Greek
perfects. Historically, and in most usage, the perfect tenses emphasize not the
mere priority in time, but the consequent condition or state. If you grasp this point,
you will have the Greek and Latin perfects firmly in hand.
The aorist tense and system
The tense that we don’t normally have, or at least talk about, in English, is what
the Greeks called the aorist. The name “aorist” comes from the Greek a- (not) and
horistos (“bounded”—the same root that gives us “horizon”). It’s the unlimited
tense. French and Spanish (and some other languages) have a tense, usually called
the preterite (which just means “done” or “bygone”), that covers more or less the
same territory. This is just a view of the verb that is more or less neutral in aspect.
It doesn’t attempt to put it into context with another action very closely; it doesn’t
98	 Syntactical Mechanics
imply, in particular, any relationship between the action or event and any present
consequence. Because usually things being reported in this way are things in the
past, the aorist tends primarily to be considered a past tense, but its aspectual
range in Greek is much larger. The aorist can be used to cover all kinds of simple
actions—or simple descriptions of actions:
I had a flat tire.
I ate breakfast.
The American Civil War lasted from 1861 to 1865.
The Paleolithic era extended till about 10,000 b.c.
Some of these things, it will be noted, took quite a while. That’s not the point.
The point is that we are not attempting to draw a particular relationship between
these events and other events. This cannot be emphasized too strongly. It is com-
mon to suggest, especially in beginning Greek classes, that the aorist is a tense
used to convey point-valued actions (generally) in the past, while the imperfect
tenses (especially the past imperfect) are generally used to talk about continuing
actions. But that’s only half-true. The fact is that it really has nothing to do with the
duration of the action in and of itself. It has everything to do with how we choose
to talk about it.
There are other subtleties involved with the Greek aorist, and we’ll return to
these when we talk about mood. For now, it’s important to know that Proto-In-
do-European had an aorist tense that was used in this way. It is preserved in Greek.
In Latin, something else happened to it.
Languages tend to simplify when they can do so without any appreciable loss
in meaning. In Latin, the aorist tense converged with the perfect tense. The result
of this is a curiously ambiguous sense of the perfect, which has confused students
for generations, and which teachers have often helped to confuse by not under-
standing the difference themselves.
The aorist and the perfect in Latin
Often, the Latin perfect is used as a simple past tense, much like the Greek
aorist, or the English simple past tense. At other times, however, it is used as a
true perfect—that is, conveying the notion of ongoing consequence. The forms
are identical; the functions are distinct. It’s important to recognize the difference
between the two.
In 63 b.c., Cicero reported the fate of the Catilinarian conspirators with a
sentence of a single word: Vixerunt. Any beginning Latin student who has made it
	 verbs	 99
past the third conjugation can probably tell you that that means “They lived.” But
is that really what it means? It does seem to be an odd thing to say about anyone.
Of course they lived. We all have. Anyone you’re likely to refer to has lived. What
was Cicero’s point here?
Cicero was not in fact reporting anything about the prior lives of the conspir-
ators. Quite the opposite: he was reporting that their lives were now prior: “They
are in a state of having lived.” That is, “They’re dead.” And so they were: he (as
consul) had ordered that they be summarily executed without trial (a breach of
civil process for which he was later exiled). If one doesn’t understand, however,
that this is the actual freight conveyed by Cicero’s use of the perfect tense, one can
largely miss the point. Plutarch mentions that this formula was used to avoid ill
omen by not speaking directly of death, but the import is the same.
In Vergil’s Aeneid, book 2, which details the fall of Troy, Aeneas encounters the
priest Panthus (lines 324–27), and asks him what is going on. Panthus utters the
memorable and melancholy lines:
Venit summa dies et ineluctabile tempus
Dardaniae. Fuimus Troes, fuit Ilium et ingens
gloria Teucrorum; ferus omnia Iuppiter Argos
transtulit; incensa Danai dominantur in urbe.
One might naively translate this as follows:
The final day came, and the inescapable time
For Troy. We were the Trojans; Ilium existed, and the great
Glory of the Teucrians; wrathful Jupiter took it all away
To Argos; the Danaans hold sway in a city that was ignited.
But that would be to miss almost the whole point of the passage. The significance
is all caught up in the nuance of the perfect aspect. Compare:
The final day has come, and the inescapable time
For Troy. We Trojans are no more; at an end is Ilium and the great
Glory of the Teucrians; wrathful Jupiter has taken it all away
To Argos; the Danaans hold sway in a city aflame.
Such an understanding of the passage is much more resonant and more evocative.
Everything is about the way things are now on account of what has happened.
Now is the critical time, the crux between the bygone and the new. What Panthus
is talking to Aeneas about is the relationship between what has been and what is.
This is not only much more poignant; it’s also thematic throughout the Aeneid. To
100	 Syntactical Mechanics
miss it here is to miss most of the point of the passage, and a good deal of the point
of the poem as a whole. It’s very far from being just a grammarian’s fussiness: it’s
fundamental to the way the work means what it means.
This matter of the perfect aspect becomes relevant in a third case as well. It is
customary for elementary Latin students to learn the forms of the perfect passive
as posing a kind of odd exception to the normal tenses of the verb of being. The
verb sum (an irregular) means “I am.” This is fine. Most students learn it pretty
early in their careers, and it has become deeply ingrained in them when, some-
what later, they are introduced to the forms of the perfect passive. Then they are
taught that laudatus sum (the perfect passive is formed, as in English, with a per-
fect passive participle of the verb and a form of “to be”) means not “I am praised”
(as they might reasonably expect), but “I was praised.” Some teachers will even
tell them that in this peculiar case, sum means not “I am” but “I was.”
This is balderdash. It’s true that, taken as a whole, laudatus sum means “I was
praised.” But no change whatever has occurred to the verb sum. The fact is rather
that the participle laudatus carries the force of the perfect tense/aspect. If one
wants to understand it analytically (and correctly), it means something much
more like “I am [now] in a state of having been praised.” When one grasps this,
not only is the riddle of why sum should change its meaning rendered irrelevant
(even silly), but the true force of the perfect participle is allowed to come forward,
and that, as it turns out, will have many further applications down the road—espe-
cially when the perfect passive participle shows up without sum. It always has that
perfect sense about it. It will not do to forget it.
Because the Latin perfect tense, though, is effectively a combination of the
Proto-Indo-European perfect and aorist tenses, one needs at every point to
weigh just what kind of a perfect one is looking at. Just as it doesn’t do to miss the
point of a true perfect when it’s there, it also doesn’t do to impose that sense on
it willy-nilly. Reading from context, with an eye always to the sense of the whole
passage, is the only way to sort this out.
This dichotomy also manifests itself in the different ways in which Roman
authors handle the perfect tense in relation to subordinate clauses. Subordinate
clauses in Latin are normally subject to what is called the sequence of tenses. This
merely means that if the clause on which a subordinate clause depends has its verb
in a present or future tense (called “primary sequence”), the verb in the subordi-
nate clause will be in one tense; but if the main verb is in a past tense (any of the
rest, constituting “secondary sequence”), the verb in the subordinate clause will
be in another. When the verb in the main clause is perfect, however, the verb in
the subordinate clause can go either way: it will behave like a primary-sequence
(present) verb if the author is using it as a true perfect verb, since the emphasis is
	 verbs	 101
not on the prior activity but on the present consequence. On the other hand, if the
author is using the verb in the main clause as a simple past-tense verb (the aorist
idea), the verb in the subordinate clause will be treated as secondary.
Aspect in the Greek verb
The aspectual system for Greek is both more complex and somewhat easier to
interpret, once one knows the rules. That is, there are more specific forms, but
for just that reason, there are fewer places where one has to resolve an ambiguity,
as one does in Latin with the perfect. Greek has seven tenses. Its three imperfect
tenses are generally equivalent to our English progressive forms (though the
future often has a simple sense—here true tense overrules aspect). It has three
perfect tenses, too, very much like the true perfect in Latin. It also has the aorist.
To beginning students, the very idea of the aorist is occasionally bewildering.
It’s unsettling, surely, to discover that another whole tense has existed all this time,
when you thought there could be only six. But its meaning is fairly easily defined,
and most introductory Greek textbooks do a pretty good job of distinguishing
the aorist from other past tense verbs. In their 1928 Introduction to Greek, Crosby
and Schaeffer used the happy analogy of a still photograph (the aorist) versus a
motion picture (the imperfect); others have used it since. That’s fine, and fairly
memorable—as long as one continues to recall that this is entirely about how we
are talking about something rather than how it is. One can have a snapshot of an
extended activity such as a race or a talk; one can have a film even of something
of fairly short duration (though it is admittedly less likely). The same action can
be given an imperfect, an aorist, or a perfect treatment, depending on how we are
interested in viewing it, and in relation to what else.
The trick with the Greek tenses is that they tend to shift in their significance.
Sometimes they function more as markers for absolute time, and other times they
function chiefly to determine aspect. This varies primarily with the mood of the
verb. Of the finite moods (indicative, subjunctive, optative, and imperative), the
indicative is most concerned with preserving information about actual time. The
distinctionbetweentheimperfectandtheaoristisstillstronglyaspectualevenhere,
but that’s because they divide the domain of past activity on aspectual principles.
But otherwise, the aorist tends to be a simple past tense, while the imperfect most
commonly conveys ongoing activity, like the English progressive. There’s seldom
any real doubt that either one of them is in the past . . . except, of course, we need
always to remember that in Greek there are always a few exceptions. Here are two.
The first big exception is that to make a broad statement about a universal
102	 Syntactical Mechanics
truth—the way things are (for which both English and Latin will normally resort
to the present tense), Greek will normally use the aorist. This quirky feature is
called the gnomic aorist. It has nothing to do with comic statues on the lawn, but
rather with the fact that these opinions or generic statements are generally called
gnomai, hence “gnomes.” In most other cases, however, the aorist in the indicative
is usually reliably a past-tense verb with a simple aspect of action:
παθὼν δέ τε νήπιος ἔγνω
a fool learns by experience
—Hesiod, Works and Days 218
The second exception is that contrary-to-fact conditions specifically divide
the domain between the imperfect indicative (not any form of the present) for
present contrary-to-fact conditions, and the aorist indicative for past contrary-
to-fact conditions. This may seem to resemble something similar in English, but
the resemblance is illusory: English contrary-to-fact conditions with “was,” for
example, go to “were” because it’s subjunctive, not because it’s past.
Aspect dominates in the remaining finite moods. In the subjunctive and opta-
tive, the tenses have virtually no significance as descriptors of absolute time. They
are all about aspect. As mentioned above, Latin has what is called the sequence of
tenses; Greek gives this whole matter an odd twist, and distributes certain kinds of
subordinate clauses between the subjunctive and the optative moods, depending
on the tense of the verb in the primary clause. Hence the actual time at which
something occurs is reflected not principally by the tense at all, but by the mood.
This may seem inexplicable, but there are good historical reasons for it.
In the imperative, the aorist is used in variation with the present chiefly to dis-
tinguish between “do x” and “be doing x.” That makes a certain amount of sense.
There’s no need for the tense of the verb to convey actual time in the imperative:
it’s always going to refer to the future. One only ever gives instructions in the real
world with a view to the future. Even the often-heard “Do it now” really only
means “Do it without delay.”
With participles and infinitives, the game changes again. Tenses are once again
more concerned with expressing actual time, but they’ve shifted the ground rules
somewhat. In this regard they’re like the tenses of Latin participles and infinitives.
They convey not absolute time, but relative time—that is, time relative to the time
frame of the main verb on which they depend.
	 verbs	 103
Mood
Just as tense is not about anxiety, so also mood is not about one’s emotional state.
We get the word from the Latin modus, and it really means more like what we’d
use the word “mode” to mean today. Be that as it may, the word “mood” has caught
on, so we are stuck with it. For all that it doesn’t express (as such) a disposition or
temperament, it does in some important ways convey the attitude of the speaker
to the thing in question.
There are four true (also sometimes called finite) moods in Latin and Greek.
The Latin student really will have to know about only three, though it’s a good
idea to bear the fourth in mind, in case one eventually decides to learn Greek,
or decides to read Vergil or other poets of a Hellenizing disposition. The four,
therefore, are the indicative, subjunctive, optative, and imperative.
Indicative
The indicative is the simplest of these, and it’s the one used in most of the exam-
ples, unless we’re trying to prove some other point. It’s used to make a statement,
which is, after all, the simplest form of predication. It’s also used to ask a question.
Those two uses cover so much of what we have to do with language anyway that
the indicative inevitably dominates.
The indicative is also used in Greek to set up contrary-to-fact conditions. This
is one of the (relatively few) instances where Greek grammar and Latin grammar
seem simply to be butting heads like a couple of bighorn sheep. Like English,
Latin uses the subjunctive for contrary-to-fact conditions. But the Latin condi-
tional system is significantly simpler than the Greek one, and this is one of those
cases where simplicity is deceptive. A more fully elaborated system might well
have been easier to interpret.
Both the Latin and Greek indicatives appear in some situations where it might
have been normal in English to employ a subjunctive. We would normally say:
It would be better to go.
But Latin would be more likely to put it more baldly:
Melius est ire.
To go is better.
This is a trend, rather than any absolute rule. Both options exist in both languages.
104	 Syntactical Mechanics
Subjunctive
English speakers have an uneasy relationship with the subjunctive. It is clearly
historically attested in our language, and there are a number of places where it’s
appropriate to use it, but they are poorly documented, even in formal English
grammar texts, and many people do not use the subjunctive consistently at all;
even historically it is sometimes misused (and sometimes by good authors, as far
back as Shakespeare, at least). The subjunctive is on the retreat everywhere, and
the result is a welter of other circumlocutions, many of which seem clangorous to
those who have been trained in the more traditional usage. Today one often hears
sentences like the following:
I wish I would have brought my raincoat.
or
If I would have brought my raincoat, I would not be so wet.
The forms, conventionally, should be as follows:
I wish I had brought my raincoat.
or
If I had brought my raincoat, I would not be so wet.
The “would” form is used legitimately in expressing the apodosis (the “then”
part) of a contrary-to-fact conditional sentence, or something that would obtain
if some implicit condition were fulfilled, or (historically) to express a wish; it is
not normally used to express the contrary-to-fact condition itself. In this, English
usage is somewhat closer to French than to Greek or Latin. The English subjunc-
tive is enfeebled, perhaps, but it does express a certain nuance that is not easily
accomplished by any other means, and it may cling to life for a while yet, if only
for that reason.
The subjunctive gets its name from the fact that it is normally used for sub-
joined—that is, subordinate—clauses. That’s a fair description but a poor defini-
tion, since it leaves some important functions out. Both Greek and Latin (and
English too, to some extent) have sentences that are controlled at the top level—in
the main clause—by verbs in the subjunctive (sometimes called the independent
subjunctive). But it certainly is true that since the main function of the subjunctive
is to express something that is hypothetical, it most frequently occurs in subordi-
nate clauses.
One of the peculiar features of the subjunctive in Greek and Latin is that it
has no future forms. Some students merely accept this as one more irrational fact
	 verbs	 105
among many, but there is good reason to think that this is because it is in origin
kind of a “moodification” of a verb in the future tense. That is, there are no future
subjunctives precisely because all subjunctives are, in a sense, aware of the fact
that they carry a kind of futurity about them. The origins of all this are obscure,
since they lie far back in the shared history of these languages, but as W. W. Good-
win points out in his Syntax of the Moods and Tenses of the Greek Verb (§6), “The
subjunctive, in its simplest and apparently most primitive use, seen in Homer
(284), expresses futurity, like the future indicative, and has οὐ for its negative.”
After some examples, he further points out: “Though this primitive use disappears
in the later language, the subjunctive still remains closely related in sense to the
future indicative, and in most of its construction can be interchanged with it.”
All this hovers in the murky air around the subject of contingency—a difficult
philosophical concept tied up with notions of fate and determinacy; we’ve men-
tioned it already. I certainly don’t here want to get into the weightier implications
of the issue, but in practical linguistic terms, it seems to have been the case that
early Indo-European usage entailed the pragmatic assumption that what was
future was not yet determined in the way the events of the past or present were.
The most fundamental way to express that indeterminacy—the hypothetical
quality of any event—was to co-opt a variant of the future tense to express it. The
subjunctive becomes, ultimately, a kind of past future tense—something express-
ing the indeterminacy or futurity of something from the point of view of the past
or the present.
This shows up most clearly in things like purpose and result clauses. We have
already talked about these at some length. But if I say:
I built the house so that it would withstand the rain.
this means that I undertook the action of building with a later end in view. The
result envisioned is subsequent to the action of building, and hence is seen as
future at the time of building. The same can be said of the result clause proper. If
I say:
He built the house so poorly that it leaked.
this again signifies a result that is subsequent to—in the future from the point of
view of the time of building. In fact, all three of these languages deal with these
things differently. English uses the subjunctive for purpose clauses but not for
result clauses (like the one above), when it uses a clause at all: most often purpose
is expressed in English with an infinitive of purpose. Latin uses the subjunctive
for both purpose and result, spawning occasional confusion about what a given
clause may be. An infinitive of purpose also appears in Late and Vulgar Latin.
106	 Syntactical Mechanics
Greek uses the subjunctive for present purpose clauses, but resorts to the optative
in secondary sequence—either way, though, the verb form expresses contingency
and futurity in a composite sense.
In Greek result clauses, however, neither the subjunctive nor the optative
makes an appearance. Greek has two different result constructions, as noted
above in the discussion of adverbial clauses in chapter 3. It distinguishes clauses
of actual result (like the one just mentioned) from clauses of natural result. The
latter refers to an expected or reasonable outcome of some action, irrespective of
whether it actually occurred or not:
The house was built so poorly as to fall down in the first earthquake.
It may well be the case that the building inspectors, upon seeing it, demanded its
immediate demolition before any earthquake could shake it down. It’s possible
that it passed through an earthquake, and, against all expectations, survived. If, on
the other hand, we are implying that the result was real, we would say:
The house was built so poorly that it fell down in the first earthquake.
Like English, Greek expresses actual result with the indicative, and natural result
not with the subjunctive or the optative, but with an infinitive of the verb. We’ll
discuss the infinitive later, but for now let it suffice to say that it is not one of the
finite forms of the verb—and so it also means that while there is a true clause of
actual result, the natural result construction is not strictly a clause at all. This is
probably a mere technicality, though, since in most other ways it functions as if it
really were a clause.
Optative
Proto-Indo-European, and Greek in its wake, had one more finite mood that does
not appear in Latin (though the language is in many ways more conservative than
Greek is) or in the Germanic languages (including English). We call it the optative,
from the Latin verb opto, -are, which signifies wish. In its independent uses, the
optative does (among other things) express wish. When accompanied by the
peculiar particle ἄν, it also expresses possibility. These two uses are significant,
but it is in subordinate clauses that the optative truly comes into its own.
In many Greek subordinate clauses, the optative functions as a kind of
second-tier subjunctive—a kind of metasubjunctive for clauses in secondary
sequence. As noted previously, whereas Latin has a regular sequence of tenses,
Greek exhibits a sequence of moods. The particulars are somewhat complicated,
	 verbs	 107
but any solid introductory Greek course will take you through them. They still all
go back to the notion that the subjunctive is in some sense future in its primordial
sense.
Finally, it should be pointed out that, like the subjunctive in modern English,
the optative was on the wane already in our earliest Greek texts. It is reasonably
strong in the Homeric dialect, and it remains important in Attic Greek. In the
Koine dialect of the New Testament, however, it has become extremely rare, and
is preserved only in a handful of more or less formulaic phrases, such as Paul’s
refrain μὴ γένοιτο, which recurs throughout the book of Romans (“may it not be
so” or “by no means”). This is almost certainly a fossilized form, used much as a
modern English-speaker who does not normally form phrases with the subjunc-
tive might still use “heaven forbid.” The use of the optative in subordinate clauses
has almost entirely disappeared from Koine, and it has been replaced mostly by
the subjunctive. (This is one of the reasons that those who learn Classical Greek
tend to have little difficulty reading the New Testament, but those whose study
has been entirely devoted to New Testament Greek will still find authors like
Homer, Aeschylus, and Thucydides hard to understand.)
Imperative
The imperative mood is the last of the finite moods, and it should be familiar to
anyone who has studied English grammatical terminology. It’s used for giving
orders. In English, the imperative virtually always appears without an explicit
subject, on the assumption that the only person you can really give an order to
is the person to whom you are talking. If that subject is added, it’s almost always
simply the emphatic “you.” Accordingly, all imperative verbs are construed to be
second person.
Greek, on the other hand, supports both a second-person and a third-person
imperative. The forms are different, and the third-person imperative often does
employ an explicit subject (“he,” “she,” or “it” is seldom as unambiguous as “you,”
after all). There’s no direct equivalent in English; in order to translate these, we
need to resort to what we call a jussive construction (in Latin it’s normally done
with the subjunctive) meaning something like our “Let . . .” It often crops up in
judicial language:
Let him be taken from the court and hanged.
This third-person imperative is so routine in Greek that it is just part of the mental
landscape of Greek authors, and appreciating that it really is a genuine imperative
108	 Syntactical Mechanics
at its core adds a good deal of richness to the experience of reading it, even if it
defies closely analogical translation into English.
Latin imperatives distinguish singular and plural, which means that there’s
another form to learn, but most of the time they appear in the second person.
There is an uncommon but still occasionally important future imperative in Latin
that has a third-person form. It appears in the ancient tables of the law and in
occasional poetic usage, but it’s considered curious and archaic by the classical
period:
Iusta imperia sunto, eisque cives modeste parento.
Let there be just authorities, and let the citizens compliantly obey them.
—Laws 3.6
It’s worth noting that both Greek and Latin support alternative ways of giving
commands without the imperative. One can give commands with certain forms of
the subjunctive in both Greek and Latin, and both Greek and Latin support polite
formations expressing a wish that verges on a command.
Such polite subjunctives are also among the possible ways of handling nega-
tive commands in Latin as well:
Ne metuas . . .
Lest you fear . . .
(I.e., Fear not . . .)
—Martial, Epigrams 1.70.13
It is not, however, the only way to handle negative commands. A completely
different set of constructions comes into play for these—often distinguished from
positive commands by not being called “commands” at all, but rather “prohibi-
tions.” In Latin it is de rigueur to use noli or nolite—the singular and plural forms
of the verb nolo, which is the negative of volo, “wish.” Therefore one is not actually
telling someone not to do something, but rather not to wish to do it. The usage is
so ingrained, however, that it has the full force of a negative imperative:
Nolite cogere socios.
Do not compel the allies.
—Cicero, Against Verres 2.1.82
This, interestingly, has an equivalent in English that appears occasionally in early
modern usage (charged with Latin as it was). In A Midsummer Night’s Dream,
	 verbs	 109
when Bottom has been transformed and sees that his best course of action is to
beat a hasty retreat, Titania crosses him with
Out of this wood do not desire to go:
Thou shalt remain here, whether thou wilt or no.
—William Shakespeare, A Midsummer Night’s Dream 3.1
One may also find other similar verbs used in the same way as noli, though they
tend to be far less common.
A final variant but relatively normal form for prohibition is cave, “beware,”
used with the bare subjunctive (not, as one might otherwise expect, with ne):
Cave putes . . .
Take care lest you think . . .
(I.e., Don’t think . . . )
—Cicero, To Atticus 7.20
An imperative with a simple negation particle ne is not unheard of, but it’s
chiefly poetic, and virtually never found in prose:
Equo ne credite, Teucri.
Do not trust [in] the horse, Trojans.
—Vergil, Aeneid 2.48
Greek, always the language of irregularities, of course has several different
ways to do this, depending on the tense and person of the verb being used. To
convey a simple “don’t do . . .” idea, one normally would use the negation particle
μή followed by an aorist subjunctive. To convey a progressive “don’t be doing . . .”
idea (often equivalent to “stop doing . . .”), one would typically express the pro-
hibition with μή followed either by the present subjunctive (the hortatory use) if
the verb is in the first person, or by the present imperative for the second or third
person. The key to remembering this is to recall that the present tense is, as noted
earlier, part of the imperfect system, and hence expresses generally continuing
aspect, especially in moods other than the indicative.
Infinitive: Not quite a mood
We now come to a cluster of forms—the infinitive, gerund, and participle—that
are regular outgrowths of the verb systems, but do not function as verbs at all. They
110	 Syntactical Mechanics
are constructed from verbs, and they are sometimes treated generically as moods
of the verb, but they are not finite moods. They exhibit many of the behaviors of
verbs (like the capacity to take objects), but in their operation, they are strictly
nouns and adjectives. Most importantly, they cannot express a complete predica-
tion on their own.
In English we form the infinitive by taking a neutral form of the verb and
tacking the word “to” onto it (not in this case a preposition, but a part of the verb).
This is a Germanic idiosyncrasy that survives into modern English: neither Greek
nor Latin, nor any of the other languages derived from Latin, has a compound
infinitive.
The infinitive functions as a noun if one views it objectively. In the simple
sentence
I like to fish.
the infinitive “to fish” is the noun standing as the object of the verb “I like.” Con-
sider:
I like computers.
I like cake.
I like to fish.
In such situations, one can also construe the infinitive as being in a special
relationship with another verb, where those verbs are sometimes called auxiliary
or helping verbs. It’s less a matter of which is right, and more of how you choose to
view it. The infinitive of this pair is called the complementary infinitive. Note the
spelling: it’s not a complimentary infinitive, which would be a free one, or perhaps
one that showered the recipient with praise, but complementary—that is, it com-
pletes the sense of the actual finite verb.
The infinitive does retain from its origins the peculiar feature that it supports
distinctions in tense:
I want to become wealthy.
versus
I want to have become wealthy.
Because the infinitives in Latin and Greek are normally single words, they are able
to be used more flexibly and nimbly than the composite infinitives of English. In
certain constructions, too, they do take a kind of pseudosubject, if it is relevant;
this will almost invariably be in the accusative case.
	 verbs	 111
Gerund: The other side of the infinitive
In English we also have another kind of verbal noun called the gerund. In many
respects it’s like the infinitive. It’s a verbal noun, though it resembles the English
participle in its formation: “swimming” versus “to swim.” The English gerund
mostly duplicates the function of the infinitive in the subjective and objective
cases. We can say:
To swim across the English Channel is difficult.
or
Swimming across the English Channel is difficult.
That’s using the infinitive and the gerund as the subject; we can easily use either
as a direct object as well:
I like to swim.
or
I like swimming.
When we need a verbal noun as an object of a preposition, on the other hand,
we definitely prefer the gerund, perhaps because following a preposition with the
English “to” (which is also, in other contexts, a preposition) sounds bizarre. It
would be normal to say:
It is difficult to cross the English Channel by swimming.
We would be much less likely to say:
It is difficult to cross the English Channel by to swim.
As we’ll see, however, Greek has no problem with this at all.
Gerunds and infinitives in English, Latin, and Greek
English, Latin, and Greek all deal with gerunds and infinitives differently. We have
seen that the English gerund and infinitive tend to overlap, though incompletely:
either can be used in some situations, while others require only one.
In Latin, the rules of the game are somewhat different. While Latin does sup-
port the complementary infinitive (as does Greek) after certain verbs, in the main,
the free use of the infinitive is restricted to the nominative case only. Hence:
Laborare est orare.
To work is to pray.
112	 Syntactical Mechanics
In all the other cases, Latin will resort to the gerund. The gerund will work
only in those other cases as well. There is no distinction of number in the Latin
gerund, and there is no nominative form either, so one has only the genitive,
dative, accusative, and ablative cases in the singular; the gerund endings are -ndi,
-ndo, -ndum, -ndo. That is all. The Latin gerund is treated as a neuter noun in most
respects, though it is typically modified not by an adjective, but by an adverb (a
concession to its verbal nature).
In English we can do either. We can say:
Good speaking requires practice.
or
Speaking well requires practice.
There is almost no difference in meaning between the two, though one of them
emphasizes the static noun-like quality of the gerund, while the other emphasizes
the gerund’s verbal origin, and the meanings may differ markedly with context:
I enjoy cooking well.
or
I enjoy good cooking.
Again, the difference is fairly slight, though the former suggests that one enjoys
the activity, whereas the latter implies rather that one enjoys the results of good
cooking, wherever they may come from.
Greek simplifies the picture enormously: it has no gerund. As if in compensa-
tion, however, it deploys its infinitives in every case. It does this by an expedient
not available to Latin, using the article (which Latin lacks completely). One can
place a definite article (equivalent to our “the”) before any infinitive. Unlike
English “the,” however, the Greek article is fully inflected for all four of its main
cases—nominative, genitive, dative, and accusative. (The article is also inflected
for gender and number, but this is immaterial here, since the infinitive is always
treated as a neuter singular noun.) The resultant construction is simple and ele-
gant, allowing maximum flexibility. This so-called articular infinitive may be used
as the subject of a sentence, as the object of a verb, or in any of the oblique cases.
Even in this position it can still take an object as well:
χαλεπὸν τὸ τοῦτο ποιεῖν.
The to do this is difficult.
(I.e., Doing this is difficult.)
	 verbs	 113
or
μανθάνομεν τῷ ποιεῖν
We learn by means of to do.
(I.e., We learn by doing.)
Once you get used to it, the articular infinitive is remarkably powerful and eco-
nomical, but a native speaker of English, or someone who has studied only Latin,
needs to be sensitive to the fact that it frames ideas in a way that does not corre-
spond directly with any English or Latin form of expression.
Participle: Also not quite a mood
Finally, a verb may be rendered into an adjective. These are called participles, and
they are used, one way or another, to modify nouns. In English they are fairly
limited. Latin has a somewhat larger range of options. Greek has vastly more.
The whole matter is too large to fold in here, so it’s discussed more extensively in
chapter 9.
Voice
“Voice” is the peculiar grammatical term used to distinguish the place of the agent
in the sentence. If you first learned about it in English, you probably have taken it
for granted that there are two possible options—the active and the passive.
It makes a certain amount of sense: in an active sentence, the subject is the one
acting. In a passive sentence, the subject is the recipient of the action—that is, the
person or thing being acted upon. Greek also supports a third voice, however,
known as the middle. Let’s take these up in turn.
Active
The active voice is the obvious one: the subject is the agent—that is, the one
performing the action. There’s not much to say about it beyond that, insofar as
it’s active. But it does support another distinction that is the foundation of the
other voices, and that is the idea of transitivity. We can talk about a verb (and
implicitly the action it names) as being transitive or intransitive; what’s being
114	 Syntactical Mechanics
discussed here is the capacity of the action to take an object. Two brief examples
should suffice:
Roger walked around the block.
Babe Ruth hit the baseball.
There is no object for “walk.” Walking isn’t happening to anything or anyone
external to the agent—that is, the person doing the walking. The phrase “around
the block” modifies the walking adverbially, but it’s not an object. We normally
consider this kind of verb intransitive. (The formulation “walk the dog” is deriv-
ative, and is arguably a different sense of the verb altogether. So is the technical
baseball use of “walk” for what a pitcher does to a batter by throwing enough
balls.)
By contrast, the baseball is actually on the receiving end of the hitting, and so
we talk about it as being the object of the verb. We have a sense that the action of
hitting in some metaphorical sense passes over or crosses over (Latin transit) from
the batter to the ball.
As viscerally fundamental as it might seem, however, the notion of transitivity
is apparently not as basic a concept as one might intuitively suppose. In fact, it
is historically fairly late to appear on the scene. The use of the accusative case to
express a direct object, at least in Greek and Latin, appears to be an outgrowth of
its more fundamental nature, expressing motion toward or at something. We will
return to this in the discussion of the cases. The very concept of transitivity seems
therefore to be derivative of the idea of physical movement. Without that concept,
however, one could not have the passive voice.
Passive
The passive voice is much reviled in English composition classes nowadays, and
it’s certainly true that it is overused, especially in certain kinds of writing. But it
has a legitimate place, and pretending that it’s not there, or that any appearance of
the passive verb is a grammatical error (as some composition instructors claim), is
a triumph of the doctrinaire over good sense.
The passive voice is specifically the promotion of the object of a transitive verb
to the status of the grammatical subject of the sentence:
The Persians were defeated at Marathon.
Accordingly, one cannot really have a passive version of an intransitive sentence—
	 verbs	 115
that is, a sentence that doesn’t contain a transitive verb. Without an object, there’s
nothing to promote.
By displacing the original agent—that is, the subject—the passive removes
any account of agency from the basic subject-object relationship of the sen-
tence. Therein lies its beauty and its diabolical slipperiness. The passive voice is
a handy way of avoiding responsibility. Politicians, accordingly, are very fond
of it:
Mistakes were made.
Sure they were, but who made them? Some people apparently believe that the
passive voice creates a sense of greater objectivity. Most police reports are in the
passive voice:
The subject was apprehended leaving the store with stolen
merchandise.
The objectivity, of course, is illusory. It’s no more objective than any other way of
putting it. Some social sciences, too, cultivate a style that entirely eschews active
verbs. Again, it’s a matter of fostering an impression, rather than achieving the
reality, of objectivity.
Still we want to know who’s to blame: accordingly, one can reintroduce the
agent to such a sentence, and doing so may well be important:
This baseball was hit by Babe Ruth.
The Persians were defeated by the allied Greek forces at Marathon.
But the agent construction is a separate one, not apparently fundamental to the
subject-object relationship of the sentence any longer. I believe a strong case can
be made for the idea that it too derives from the idea of motion—but in this case
motion from. We’ll talk about that specifically in the next chapter when we get to
cases and their functions.
It’s probably worth pointing out here that there are two profoundly different
ways of constructing passive verbs (and accordingly passive sentences), and how
one forms them will have a lot to do with how one experiences them as well. The
first is with genuinely passive forms of the verb, which is (for the most part) what
happens with Greek and Latin. These are sometimes trivially longer than their
active counterparts, but usually not by much.
English, on the other hand (and parts of Latin, together with some of the more
remote corners of Greek), relies on a periphrastic passive—which is to say that it’s
116	 Syntactical Mechanics
pieced together with a combination of words, usually involving some form of the
verb “to be.” Hence to go from
Babe Ruth hit this baseball.
to
This baseball was hit by Babe Ruth.
or from
Babe Ruth will break the bat.
to
The bat will be broken by Babe Ruth.
one has to introduce “was” or “will be” into the picture. The only way we can
convey the passive idea is to use a passive participle. Sometimes that is distinct
from other forms of the verb (as in the case of “broken”); sometimes it’s not (as in
the case of “hit”). Especially if there’s no difference in the form, it’s the placement
of the verb of being that does the trick.
This is certainly one of the reasons passive verbs are so widely disparaged by
modern English stylists: they’re inflationary. Using a passive verb in a sentence
will almost always result in a longer sentence. While there are occasionally other
good reasons for using it, most of the time it seems like a poor bargain when the
only benefit from the process is the removal of agency (and implicitly responsibil-
ity) from the equation.
The same is not quite the case with Latin or Greek, however. In most situa-
tions, verbs have passive forms of their own that are not composite. We can say
in Latin:
Ciceronem laudat.
[He/she] praises Cicero.
From there we can go to the almost equally compact
Cicero laudatur.
Cicero is [being] praised.
Accordingly, the Greeks and Romans didn’t employ the passive for the sake of
pure verbosity. They still realized, however, that it was a very useful way of dodg-
ing responsibility.
	 verbs	 117
Middle
Beginning students of Greek are often nonplussed to discover that it supports a
third voice. The dual number seems unnecessary, but it has a clearly defined ratio-
nale; the aorist tense is unfamiliar, but it actually creates an important distinction
in aspect. But what, students typically wonder, could possibly be added to the
active and passive? Those two seem to provide an exhaustive list of options.
To some extent, they’re right. But there’s a third voice all the same. The Greek
middle (occasionally hinted at in Latin, too—especially by poets of a Hellenizing
bent) is an odd catchall sort of voice, used to create nuances of meaning not typ-
ically supported otherwise. It’s not systematically used for one thing or another.
Instead its usage varies with the particular verb in question. There is, therefore,
no simple way of summing up the meaning of the middle, as one can (fairly easily)
with the active and the passive.
Nevertheless, one can point out a few places where the middle tends to be
used. It is used for fundamentally intransitive verbs, or for intransitive applica-
tions of verbs that can be both transitive and intransitive. It also can form what
looks something like a closed reflexive system, implying that the subject is acting
on itself, or for the benefit or advantage of itself.
A few examples will have to suffice. The Greek verb παύω, for example, means
“stop.” In the active voice, it will tend to mean “stop” in a transitive sense:
Themistocles stopped me.
In the passive, we can see the obvious converse of that relationship:
I was stopped by Themistocles.
In the middle, though, the intransitive sense comes to the fore. One could also see
it as a form of reflexive; its object is internal, at best:
Themistocles stopped.
All of those are valid understandings of the term, and the middle voice helps clar-
ify which one is being used at the time.
With a different verb, though, the story may be different. The verb παιδεύω
means “educate.” The first-person singular active, predictably, means “I teach,”
while the first-person singular passive just as predictably means “I am taught.” So
far so good. The middle voice of this particular verb, however, usually refers to
having someone educated—causing it to happen, in other words, while not doing
118	 Syntactical Mechanics
the actual instruction oneself. I think it is fair to say that nobody is likely to stum-
ble across this meaning intuitively. At the same time, it makes a certain amount of
sense eventually, especially in the social and cultural context of classical Athens,
and posits an important distinction in the various uses of the word.
All of this may foster an impression of something that is wholly chaotic. Seen
from the outside, it may be. But over time, one can develop an impression of how
the middle voice is used, and a certain inner logic begins to emerge from it. That
we can’t really express that logic easily in English is probably partly because there
is no equivalent English concept. But forming such concepts is part of the point of
learning another language.
Phantoms: Deponents and semi-deponents
Deponents and semi-deponents are really more a morphological curiosity than
anything to do with syntax, so we won’t linger on them, but the phenomenon is
such that it at least suggests some kind of archaic semantic linkage. Both Greek
and Latin have verbs that are passive (or middle, in the case of some Greek
verbs) in form, while being active in meaning. These are known as deponents and
semi-deponents. Some of them are systematically inverted throughout; others are
not. Like the nuances of meaning in the Greek middle, these need to be learned
on a case-by-case basis.
	 119
Chapter 8
Nouns—Substantives and Adjectives
What’s in a name
Substantives (what English usually calls nouns) and adjectives are, as we discussed
in chapter 1, two different kinds of names in the broadest ancient understanding of
the term. Ancient grammarians tended to distinguish between the nomen substan-
tivum and the nomen adiectivum. Pronouns offer a few extra wrinkles, and we’ll
talk about their peculiarities in due course, but a lot of what needs to be said about
them falls squarely within a general discussion of nouns and adjectives. They take
their places in syntactical constructions in virtually identical ways.
What names are marked for
We introduced the concept of marking for verbs above. This is just a broad, generic
way of talking about what kinds of formal flags words carry indicating different
facets of their meaning. Verbs, you will recall, are marked for person, number,
tense, mood, and voice. Nouns are marked for three things, again, in a conventional
order:
1. Case
2. Number
3. Gender
These are, in a sense, listed in order of decreasing importance, so we’ll take them
in reverse order.
Gender
Gender in nouns is almost arbitrary. Grammatical gender is a projection of real-
world sex onto things that may or may not actually have sex. One can debate in
120	 Syntactical Mechanics
the airiest abstract terms about whether there is something intrinsically masculine
or feminine about the words that are so marked in Latin or Greek; it’s unlikely,
however, that one will ever be able to arrive at a demonstrable conclusion. The
concept seems vaguely puzzling or arbitrary to most speakers of English, since we
don’t mark our nouns for gender (though we still do have gender differentiation in
some of our pronouns—e.g., “he,” “she,” and “it”). What is clear, however, is that
linguistic morphology trumps nature: a certain form of a noun may be character-
istically masculine, feminine, or neuter, and it will retain that form, even if being
applied to something of a different real-world sex. Beginning students of German
(especially English speakers) are often amused by the fact that das Mädchen (the
girl) is a neuter noun. But it’s a neuter not because of some gender confusion on
the part of either the speaker or the girl, but because any noun with the diminutive
suffix -chen is neuter. It’s a diminutive of die Magd (the maid, woman), which is
(unsurprisingly) feminine. Latin virtus (“virtue, courage”: strictly, “manliness,”
from vir, “man”) is feminine. This is not because it’s seen as a feminine attribute of
men, but because nouns ending in -tus, -tutis are always feminine. In fact, almost
all Latin abstract nouns (those ending in -tus, -tutis; -tas, -tatis; -tudo, -tudinis,
etc.) are feminine. Can we say that the Romans considered abstraction somehow
feminine? It seems unlikely, but perhaps cannot be ruled out entirely.
There are exceptions. The first-declension nouns in Latin are virtually all
feminine, and the adjectives built on the same model are invariably feminine. But
there are a few first-declension nouns—mostly involving one’s line of work, and
mostly derivative of Greek—that are in fact masculine. They include the common
agricola (farmer), nauta (sailor), poeta (poet), pirata (pirate), and a few others.
They are understood to be masculine, irrespective of the morphological clues, and
if you want to modify such a noun with an adjective, you need to pick a masculine
form. A good farmer is not an agricola bona but an agricola bonus. In the same
way, second-declension nouns ending with -us are typically masculine; but the
names of plants—quercus (oak), pinus (pine), fraxinus (ash), and so on—as well
as the names of gems, countries, and towns ending in -us, and a few other odd
words, are in fact feminine. What does one make of this? Language is a quirky
real-world phenomenon. Even the ever-so-regular Latin is subject to exceptions.
As for Greek . . . it’s virtually made of exceptions.
Number
Number is intrinsic to whatever you’re talking about at the moment: is there just
one duck or are there several or many? In very early Latin, as in early Greek and
even early forms of Old English, there is a dual. Most of the time, we don’t need to
	 nouns	 121
pay it very much heed. The dual tends to crop up in nouns about as frequently as
it crops up in verbs—they go together.
There are a few minor wrinkles in number. Typically these occur at the
crossroads of number—collectives and distributives. British and American
English, for example, diverge on collective nouns. Americans base grammat-
ical agreement on strict morphology, viewing the collective as a single entity,
whereas the British refer to the referent as if to its constitutent members. An
American would say:
The State Department has banned travel to these countries.
A Briton would say instead:
The Foreign Office have banned travel to these countries.
Latin does something similar, though in a different way. Occasionally one gets a
distributive sense of a noun, in which a single feature or attribute is mapped to mul-
tiple entities. There, it will normally retain a singular form in Latin; for example,
Ex ore infantium
Out of the mouth of babes
We would normally say:
Out of the mouths of babes
Mass nouns and discrete units offer unique problems in every language.
Good English writers tend to make a clear distinction between them, but other
languages draw the lines in different places. One occasionally hears in colloquial
English something like this:
If we raise the ticket prices, less people will come.
“Less,” however, (unlike its counterpart “more”) is normally reserved for mass
nouns:
For a drier mixture, use less water.
Construction in this way will require less concrete.
The proper form of the first sentence in standard modern English would be the
following:
If we raise the ticket prices, fewer people will come.
Reducing people to the status of mass nouns is seen as dehumanizing—though
one may occasionally see it done deliberately, with an eye to viewing them as an
122	 Syntactical Mechanics
undifferentiated mass, as Vergil does:
. . . rumpunt aditus primosque trucidant
immissi Danai et late loca milite complent.
. . . they break down the door, and the Greeks having gained access
slaughter the first ones, and fill the whole place with soldier.
—Vergil, Aeneid 2.494–95
The effect is chilling. Translators shy away from such a blunt statement in English:
one will occasionally see it rendered as “soldiery” or the like, but Vergil’s intention
is fairly clear. He wants us to see the Greek soldiers as a mass of undifferentiated
and impersonal hatred, as faceless as the masked storm troopers of Star Wars.
Similarly, Latin uses pars (part, some) in places where we’d never use the cog-
nate “part”; again, that is reserved for mass nouns—“part of the flour” but never
“part of the flowers.” But this is probably chiefly a matter of lexical domains that
have shifted over time.
Case
The big determinant in the syntax of nouns is case. Our grammatical term “case”
comes from Latin casus, which means “falling”; it in turn is borrowed as a con-
cept from the Greek πτῶσις (ptōsis, which also means “falling”). However one
understands it, it expresses the way the word falls in the sentence or clause—its
position or placement in the syntactic structure. In general, that’s reflected in
both Latin and Greek by the endings of nouns. There are other ways to achieve
the same effect, however, and languages are constantly evolving in this regard.
Old English has a range of grammatical cases not much different from those of
modern German; modern English has very largely lost them, retaining only two
really distinctive grammatical cases—a subjective and an objective case. Those are
functional, rather than morphological distinctions: they show up in the forms of
our pronouns, but no longer in our nouns at all. In the sentences
I hit him.
He hit me.
the forms of the subject and object are distinct. In other sentences, however,
such as
Tom hit the baseball.
The baseball hit Tom.
	 nouns	 123
the only thing determining the subject-object relationship is word order. In Latin
and Greek, it is much different. Most of the rest of this chapter will be about the
constructions that can be made with the various cases.
Here we can get an enormous amount of leverage once again from looking
back at the structures of Proto-Indo-European. Proto-Indo-European had a large
number of cases. Latin and Greek draw their case structures from this rich set, but
each language reduces the number of cases, combining a few of the originals into
a single case. Unsurprisingly, they don’t do this in precisely the same way. This
can cause considerable confusion for those first learning Latin and Greek—but it
can also provide a way out of the confusion. The relationship between how those
cases collapsed in each language can shed some light on where individual uses of
the cases in various constructions came from.
English cases
English retains, as should be apparent by now, only a very simplified case struc-
ture, reduced (chiefly through the influence of French) from a fairly full Germanic
set of cases in Old English to two—a subjective case (used for the subject of the
verb or for the predicate nominative) and an objective case (used for everything
else—the object of the verb or a preposition). In most cases, even this is a purely
analytical distinction, since English nouns are not themselves inflected in any way.
The distinction in form survives exclusively in pronouns (I, me; he, him; she, her;
we, us; they, them; who, whom; etc.). This simplified system does not of course
prevent an outrageous number of case errors from occurring in English all the
same, from the illiterate formation
Me and Tom went to the ocean.
to the hypercorrect form (that is, an error made as a reaction to a mistakenly per-
ceived error in the proper form)
Please discuss this afterward with Sally and I.
Such errors occur chiefly in compound subjects or objects: no native speaker
would say:
Me went to the ocean.
or
Please discuss this afterward with I.
124	 Syntactical Mechanics
Remembering to use the same form as one would use in an uncompounded
subject or object is probably the simplest way to avoid errors in this remarkably
simple case system.
Cases in Greek, Latin, and PIE
The cases of Greek and Latin ultimately go back to the eight Proto-Indo-European
cases shown in figure 7. As the languages evolved, there was a tendency for mul-
tiple cases to coalesce or collapse into one; this did not, however, always happen
in the same way. The chart shows that the Latin ablative expresses an original
ablative and an original instrumental; the Greek genitive, on the other hand,
represents the Proto-Indo-European ablative together with its genitive, while the
instrumental has fallen in with the Greek dative. With this fairly small amount
of information, we can draw some interesting (though perhaps somewhat provi-
sional) conclusions about the sources and even the underlying thinking behind a
number of constructions.
It must be said that almost any description of the cases and their main func-
tions is approximate and somewhat reductive: as languages grow and develop,
forms that are already available take on new functions at need, as outgrowths of
earlier ones, expanding and stretching in novel and occasionally bewildering ways.
Nevertheless, I’ll try to give a general summary of the cases and their meanings,
Fig. 7. Greek, Latin, and Proto-Indo-European Cases
Latin Proto-Indo-European Greek
nominative nominative (subject) nominative
genitive genitive (possession, belonging)
genitive
ablative
ablative (motion from, separation)
instrumental (means)
dative
dative dative (reference, association)
accusative accusative (motion toward) accusative
vocative vocative (direct address) vocative
locative locative (place where) locative
	 nouns	 125
and then follow up with a closer analysis of the particular constructions.
Nominative
The nominative case is the naming case. It is used almost exclusively either for the
subject of a sentence or clause, or for something modifying the subject directly.
It’s the least variable of all the cases, and it is the basic form one looks up in a
lexicon. In Greek and Latin, the nominative form is typically not sufficient to
provide one with enough information to create all inflected forms, and hence the
nominative normally needs to be learned along with the genitive form and the
gender. In Latin, the gender is an independent fact; in Greek one can learn the
gender as embodied in the article.
Thetwomainfunctionsofthenominative,therefore,aretoprovidethesubject
for a clause (or to modify it attributively), and to provide predicate nominatives
after a copulative use of the verb of being. Predicate nominatives (broadly clas-
sified) fall into two subcategories—predicate nouns (or substantives, to adhere
to ancient terminology) and predicate adjectives. The predicate adjective will
always agree with the subject in number and gender as well as in case. Predicate
substantives have their own number and gender, unrelated to the number and
gender of the subject:
The dead fish on the sidewalk are a mess.
One would be hard put to know how else one could manage such a situation, since
in equating one noun with another one must inevitably (at least some of the time)
wind up pairing things where the number or the gender is not the same.
There are cases (especially in Latin and Greek) in which a predicate adjective
modifies an understood predicate noun, not expressed, as in the Vergilian dictum
Varium et mutabile semper femina.
—Vergil, Aeneid 4.449
By any normal construction, one would expect:
Varia et mutabilis semper femina.
A woman is always variable and changeable.
but the implication of Vergil’s line is rather
A woman is always a variable and changeable [thing].
Hence the neuter adjectives express the understood “thingness” of the predi-
cate nominative. This may seem all the more peculiar to an English speaker, since
126	 Syntactical Mechanics
if the word “thing” were actually expressed, it would be the feminine res. But this
is not the thought pattern implicit in the statement. Aside from this kind of issue,
however, there are very few surprises with the nominative case.
Genitive
With the genitive case, things begin to get interesting. The genitive case is nor-
mally understood as the case of possession—translated typically with the English
preposition “of.” But this is somewhat too weak an understanding to account for
its many, varied uses. Greek is further complicated by the fact that its genitive case
represents not only the Proto-Indo-European genitive case, but also its ablative
case (see figure 7).
The genitive basically turns the noun in question into something like an adjec-
tive: that is, it modifies a noun just as an adjective would, and one can use a geni-
tive noun almost anywhere one could otherwise use another kind of adjective, in
English, Greek, or Latin:
the blue book
Tom’s book
(i.e., the of-Tom book)
In Greek, where attributive adjectives (i.e., nonpredicate adjectives) are routinely
tucked in between the article and its noun, the genitive is inserted in exactly the
same way. For Latin, of course, no such rule obtains, since Latin has no article, but
the adjectival function remains all the same.
In Greek, Latin, and English alike, the genitives run alongside a set of pos-
sessive adjectives (or adjectival pronouns). For English-speaking students, these
may initially create some confusion in idiom, but this is something more likely to
crop up in composition than in reading and understanding texts. The meaning is
unaltered: it merely happens that each language has its own rules for which kind
of word should be preferred in any given instance. In Latin, where a possessive
adjective is available, it should usually be used in preference to the genitive of the
personal pronoun; in Greek, that’s not always the case.
Ablative
The fundamental idea behind the ablative is separation or motion from—what we
mightcall“from-ness.”Inthisrespectitformsareciprocalpairwiththeaccusative,
which expresses motion toward—“to-ness” or “at-ness,” if you like. The ablative
is, however, dominated chiefly by an underlying idea of motion. In loose English
	 nouns	 127
usage, it may seem to overlap significantly the domain of the genitive, since in
such phrases as these:
Dionysius of Halicarnassus
Κυναίγειρος ὁ Εὐφορίωνος
Kynaigeiros the [son] of Euphorion
the underlying concept seems to be one of origin (either city or family). But argu-
ably the genitive that appears there refers more to belonging than to coming from
somewhere in particular.
Students are often confounded by the Latin ablative because it presents so
many different and seemingly arbitrary faces, but this is largely because it is a con-
flation of two Proto-Indo-European cases—the true ablative and the instrumental.
If one sorts the ablative constructions into these two classes, they are much easier
to grasp. This also goes a long way toward explaining why a number of apparently
very similar constructions emerge in different cases in Latin and Greek.
The motion-based idea of the ablative is easily transferred to other more met-
aphorical understandings of motion, and I will argue below that this is an import-
ant piece of understanding how agent constructions (among others) work in both
Latin and Greek. But it’s a good idea to keep the physical referent in mind at the
outset, since the figurative use of a case seldom strays very far from its literal sense.
Complicating these matters for students of Greek is the fact that there is no
ablative case as such: its functions have fallen in with the genitive case. We will
discuss strategies for keeping these distinct shortly.
Instrumental and associative
The Proto-Indo-European instrumental case appears in some of the early Ger-
manic languages (including Old English), but in both Greek and Latin it has been
assimilated to another case. This causes considerable confusion among students
learning elementary Greek or Latin, but it need not. In Greek the instrumental
has fallen in with the dative case; in Latin it has fallen in with the ablative. Keeping
the functions separate, however, is a relatively easy matter once one comes to see
how the different constructions are employed and what their underlying ideas are.
The fundamental notion of the instrumental case is “with-ness”—it expresses
the means or instrumentality by which something is done. Thus it applies nor-
mally to impersonal means, not to persons. People are more usually viewed as
agents, unless they are seen merely as means to an end, subordinate to another
agency. Hence one might say:
128	 Syntactical Mechanics
He broke the gate with an axe.
Alexander conquered Persia with [by means of] an enormous army.
Some Indo-European languages had an associative case distinct from the instru-
mental. The associative case represents accompaniment (“with” in the sense of
being alongside someone or something, rather than “with” in the sense of being a
means or instrument):
I went to the store with my credit card. (accompaniment)
I bought a pair of shoes with my credit card. (instrument)
In many Indo-European languages, though, while the associative and instrumen-
tal functions remain meaningfully distinct, they tend to have convergent forms
and very similar patterns of use. One can see why: usually the means by which
one does something, especially in a practical and physical context, is also accom-
panying the agent. While I may contact an old friend by means of e-mail, I cannot
build a box with a hammer unless I also have the hammer in my possession. The
domains of instrumentality and association, therefore, can frequently overlap, and
this will prove important in view of some of the specific constructions. We will
have occasion to refer (as other grammars sometimes do as well) to an “instru-
mental-associative case,” at least at the theoretical level. There is of course no such
case explicitly in either Latin or Greek.
Both of these concepts, however, are quite different in origin and in meaning
from the agent construction with passive verbs. We will shortly look at why.
Dative
The dative case is often explained as the case of the indirect object, and that’s not
a bad explanation as far as it goes, but the core notion of the dative is more accu-
rately understood as having to do with relationship: “at-ness” or “with-respect-to-
ness.” The name “dative” derives from the Latin casus dativus, which comes from
the principal verb of giving, do, dare; in Greek it is called ἡ δοτικὴ πτῶσις, which
effectively means the same thing. It is not, however, confined to this sense, and its
domain takes in almost any kind of idea of respect or relationship. As such, one
could see it as forming a kind of antithetical pair with the instrumental, since the
instrumental points to the means by which something is accomplished, and the
dative to the sense or context for which it is relevant. Complicating this picture,
unfortunately, is the fact that in Greek the instrumental has fallen together with
the dative to make a single case, so that the two notions tend to converge, rather
	 nouns	 129
than being kept entirely separate. The meanings in question, however, are seldom
confusing in context.
Native speakers of English are likely to be too eager to draw “to” into their
definitions of the dative; E. C. Woodcock argues that “for” probably conveys the
sense of the word much more successfully than “to” does. Almost all the uses of the
dative can be thought of in basically relational terms. Almost anything involving
actual physical motion toward a goal of any sort is carried by the accusative instead.
In both Greek and Latin, the dative case tends to have many lexically specific
applications. There are a number of verbs—particularly compound verbs—that
(while they might take a direct object in English) require a dative pseudo-object
or indirect object in Latin or Greek.
Accusative
In elementary Latin and Greek courses, the accusative is normally explained as
the case of the direct object—the thing or person to or upon which the action of
the main verb is performed. This is somewhat unfortunate, for two reasons. In the
first place, transitivity—the capacity of a verb to take a direct object—is apparently
a fairly late development in language. As fundamental as it may seem to us, it is,
as E. C. Woodcock persuasively argues (A New Latin Syntax, §§1–2) , a derivative
sense. In the second place, the accusative also supports a number of other mean-
ings that really don’t have much connection to the concept of the direct object.
It’s almost certainly better to understand it primarily in physical terms, as having
to do with motion toward an object: “to-ness” (in a physical sense, as opposed to
the relational one that is the domain of the dative) or “at-ness.” From this figure of
thought one can reasonably derive an idea of the direct object, and indeed it need
not leave that physical image entirely behind. If we take the sentence
Tom hits the baseball.
we can understand that at bottom this means something more like this:
Tom directs his hitting at [in the direction of, toward, to] the baseball.
The accusative is also used for all manner of functions where motion toward a
goal is the idea nearest the surface. Latin students beginning from English peren-
nially want to use the dative for such things, but it’s not correct.
He came to Athens.
does not employ the dative, but rather the bare accusative:
130	 Syntactical Mechanics
Athenas venit.
The same is true of Greek.
The accusative is also used for boundary or limit conditions toward which
something is moving—hence the accusative of extent of time or space:
They marched for three days.
Tres dies iter fecerunt.
They marched for four miles.
Quattuor milia [passuum] iter fecerunt.
Again, Greek retains a virtually identical usage for the accusative. We will explore
all these constructions in greater detail below.
Locative
The locative case is one of the relatively minor cases in both Greek and Latin,
and while one needs to know it, its meaning remains blessedly uncomplicated. It
conveys the notion of where something happened—that’s all. It is used relatively
infrequently in both Greek and Latin, many of its functions having been quietly
taken over by other cases (especially the ablative in Latin) after a preposition like in.
Vocative
The vocative is similarly simple: it is used only for direct address. In some instances
the forms are identical with the nominative, but where there is a distinct form, it
is reliably used. In Latin one would never address Marcus as Marcus, but rather as
Marce. Simplifying this further is the fact that the vocative does not participate in
any syntactically complex functions: a vocative word or phrase is normally tacked
on to another clause or sentence without interfering with the subtler processes of
that predication, and so it almost never offers any real difficulty either in recogni-
tion or in interpretation.
The individual constructions
I have taken it as axiomatic here that most if not all of the individual case construc-
tions in Greek and Latin can be understood as outgrowths of basically physical
models of thought, extended metaphorically or analogically as needed from the
	 nouns	 131
tangible to the intangible, creating matrices of ideas that, even if abstract, still to
some extent mirror their more concrete ancestors. I have further proceeded on
the assumption that languages tend to be conservative in their treatment of these
fundamental structures of meaning—that they will tend to change most slowly of
all language features (morphology changing more quickly, and phonetics more
quickly still).
Both of those contentions are probably open to dispute, and I doubt that either
is rigorously demonstrable. In their defense I can merely say that, on the one hand,
they make sense to me as an observer of how my own thought and expression
take shape and change, and, on the other, that they seem to correspond to the
phenomena that emerge from the study of historical linguistics. I hope that what
follows will suffice to affirm that correspondence. On those principles, therefore,
I shall try carefully to dissect a number of individual case constructions in Greek
and Latin, in order to suggest at least a plausible rationale for how they evolved
from common Indo-European ancestors, and how they still carry much of the
same semantic burden. Please note: I have made no attempt to be exhaustive
here; this is not, after all, a reference grammar in design or conception. My main
purpose is to help the student construct an organic conceptual framework strong
enough to support and (ideally) assimilate the other constructions as they appear.
The nominative, locative, and vocative cases are sufficiently simple that they
really require no further elaboration; what follows primarily focuses on the other
cases.
Place, space, and time
If most of the constructions engaging the oblique cases of the noun are indeed
derived from a physical prototype, it probably behooves us, first of all, to nail
down the elements of that model as clearly as we can before moving to their more
obscure ramifications. The core meanings here, I would contend, are those relating
one entity—be it person or thing—to another in spatial terms. At the simplest level,
three relationships can obtain: x can be moving toward y, x can be stationary with
respecttoy,orxcanbemovingawayfromy.IntheearlyIndo-Europeanlanguages,
these three states are expressed by the accusative, instrumental/associative, and
ablative cases, respectively. Even after a good deal of later development and meta-
phorical extension, these relationships remain at the core of the three cases.
One can envision all this quite simply as shown in figure 8: the ablative
represents the source, and the accusative the goal or limit of any extension or
activity; the instrumental (shadowing the locative) and the PIE dative represent
location where—“at” in the static sense. From this basic framework, we can spin
132	 Syntactical Mechanics
out virtually all of the separate constructions relating to time and space in both
Latin and Greek.
Place
The ablative emerges, as noted, as a genitive in Greek and an ablative in Latin,
and the instrumental as an ablative in Latin and a dative in Greek. The accusative
remains accusative in both languages. The core concept behind the ablative is
motion away from or out of something, while the core concept of the accusative is
motion toward something. Stationary presence with respect to something else is
generally indicated by the instrumental or associative (sometimes the dative, for
a slightly different reason), which finds expression as the dative in Greek or the
ablative in Latin.
In historical time, certainly, many of these physical concepts were expressed
with the help of reinforcing prepositions, but the fundamental concepts inherent in
the cases remained a central factor in their meanings. In other words, I think we can
argue that though prepositions will color and shape these uses, and help to make
them less ambiguous, they will not typically recast them in a wholly new light.
The place from which construction, therefore, presents the PIE ablatival idea
at something close to its essential nature. Static distance from something is often
expressed using ablatival structures as well, as if distance had been accomplished
at some point by an act of removal, whether that was in fact the case or not. This
should not be surprising, since in English we also talk about one thing being far
from another, whether they originated in the same place or not. The bare genitive
or ablative may occur in especially older poetic usage; more commonly in prose it
will be accompanied by a preposition:
Οὐλύμποιο κατήλθομεν
We came down from Olympus
—Homer, Iliad 20.125
negotiator ex Africa
a merchant from Africa
—Cicero, Against Verres 2.1.14
Fig. 8. Cases and Movement
PIE Ablative
Gk. Genitive
Lat. Ablative
“from”
PIE Instrumental
Gk. Dative
Lat. Ablative
“at”
PIE Accusative
Gk. Accusative
Lat. Accusative
“toward”
	 nouns	 133
The place where construction is often (not unreasonably) considered an out-
growth of the locative, but I have not found any grammar that could offer any
good reasons for why this lateral movement should take place. I think it can more
easily be understood in light of the basic associative idea that often travels with
the instrumental. It predictably emerges as an ablative in Latin and as a dative in
Greek. Again, the bare formation is well attested in poetry, while prepositions will
more frequently appear with it in prose, though there are a few exceptions:
τόξ’ ὤμοισιν ἔχων
having a bow on his shoulders
—Homer, Iliad 1.45
si in Gallia remanerent
if they remained in Gaul
—Caesar, Gallic War 4.8
The accusative of place to which represents motion toward something in two
ways—either with the bare accusative (usually reserved for towns and small
islands) or with the accusative prepared with a preposition (in Latin usually ad,
and also usually implying something about the region, rather than the specific
location). Again, it expresses the fundamental idea of motion toward:
Ἀνέβη μέγαν οὐρανὸν Οὔλυμπόν τε.
She ascended to the broad heaven and to Olympus.
—Homer, Iliad 1.497
nimborum in patriam, loca feta furentibus Austris,
Aeoliam venit.
Into the homeland of the clouds, a place full of raging winds,
to Aeolia she came.
—Vergil, Aeneid 1.51–52
and also (with the more common preposition in prose)
ad Alesiam perveniunt
they come to [the region of] Alesia
—Caesar, Gallic War 7.45
134	 Syntactical Mechanics
Personal source
The ablative of personal source is obviously an outgrowth of the original separative
idea, and it (predictably) emerges with a Latin ablative and a Greek genitive form:
Μάθε μου τάδε.
Know this of [from] me.
—Xenophon, The Education of Cyrus 1.6
Space
In the wake of these place relationships between entities or persons, we can form
a similar set of constructions relating to space—a slightly more rarefied notion,
if only because it’s made to refer to a more objective frame of reference. Here
measurement and quantification come into play, but otherwise the constructions
are remarkably similar.
Theaccusativeofextentofspacerepresents,therefore,theendpoint—andhence
the goal or target—of the motion or extent of space in question, viewed as a quan-
titative, rather than a concrete, endpoint. It thus preserves the primordial sense of
the accusative as an expression of motion toward something, while adapting it to a
moreabstractcontext.AllenandGreenough’sNewLatinGrammar(§386)classifies
the accusative of extent among the “idiomatic uses” of the accusative (seemingly
suggesting that they are marginal or peculiar). I would argue that this could hardly
be further from the truth: they are very close to the essential nature of the case:
Ἀπέχει ἡ Πλάταια τῶν Θηβῶν σταδίους ἑβδομήκοντα
Plataea is seventy stades from Thebes
—Thucydides, Peloponnesian War, 2.5
progressus milia passuum circiter duodecim
having advanced about twelve miles
—Caesar, Gallic War 7.72
On the same principles we can rationalize the concept of space within which,
or space where, though neither in pure form is very common. Both do, however,
have a closely following analogue in the area of time constructions.
Time
To arrive at the constructions reflecting time, we need do no more than imagine
time as a metaphorically linear extension analogous to extension in space—
	 nouns	 135
virtually all the attendant constructions fall into place with perfect symmetry.
The accusative of extent of time represents the goal or target of the motion or
extent through time:
αἱ σπονδαὶ ἐνιαυτὸν ἔσονται
the treaty will be for one year
—Thucydides, Peloponnesian War 4.118
cum triduum iter fecisset
when he had marched [for] three days.
—Caesar, Gallic War 7.24
Time when similarly follows the instrumental-associative pathway, giving us a
Greek dative and a Latin ablative:
δεκάτῳ ἔτει ξυνέβησαν
they reached an accord in the tenth year
—Thucydides, Peloponnesian War 1.103
Quae fuerit hesterno die Cn. Pompei gravitas in dicendo, iudices,
quae facultas, quae copia, non opinione tacita vestrorum animorum,
sed perspicua admiratione declarari videbatur.
How great was the energy displayed by Cnaeus Pompeius in speaking
yesterday, O judges, how great his fluency, how great the riches of his
eloquence, was shown plainly enough, not only by the secret feelings of
your minds, but by your evident and unconcealed admiration.
—Cicero, For Balbus 2; trans. C. D. Yonge
The only even slightly odd player in this mixture is the construction of time
within which. Most Latin grammars in fact normally group this with time when—
many merely referring to a single construction, the ablative of time when or within
which. The two do certainly coincide in Latin as an ablative, but in Greek, time
within which is not framed as a dative (as is the time when construction) but as
a genitive. Allen and Greenough ascribe it to a locative function of the ablative
(§423), but I believe there is good reason to think that these are in origin not the
same thing at all, and they are easier to understand holistically if one separates
them. The Latin ablative of time within which is both more coherent and easier to
square with its Greek counterpart if one conceives of it as a time from which—that
is, out of which extent of time—the events emerge:
136	 Syntactical Mechanics
Δέκα ἐτῶν οὐκ ἥξουσι.
They will not come within ten years.
—Plato, Laws 642e
Diebus viginti quinque aggerem exstruxerunt.
Within twenty-five days they finished constructing the mound.
—Caesar, Gallic War 7.24
Note that all three of these time and space constructions are in an important
sense adverbial, and not to be confused with the adjectival genitive of measure,
which remains genitive in both Greek and Latin. The genitive virtually always
takes an adjectival direction:
ὀκτὼ σταδίων τεῖχος
a wall of eight stades
fossa trium pedum
a ditch of three feet
Comparison
Comparison can be accomplished in Greek and Latin in two distinct ways. The
most secure and probably the most comfortable method of comparison for
English speakers is to set up a comparative conjunction meaning “than”—Greek ἤ
or Latin quam—followed by a noun in the same case as the one being compared.
Where confusion won’t result from the compression, however (and some-
times where it will), the thing compared is often expressed without a “than,”
using an ablatival construction—which is to say that it emerges by way of a Latin
ablative or a Greek genitive:
He is taller than I [i.e., “of me” or “from me”].
. . . θᾶττον γὰρ θανάτου θεῖ.
for it [wickedness] runs faster than death.
—Plato, Apology 39b
Vilius argentum est auro, virtutibus aurum.
Silver is less valuable than gold, and gold [is less valuable] than virtue.
—Horace, Epistles 1.1.52
	 nouns	 137
Clearly this is in origin an ablatival (separative) concept: he is taller from me—that
is, in separation from or in distinction to—me. Viewed this way, the constructions
in both Greek and Latin converge and seem less arbitrary and confusing.
Instrumentality
As noted earlier, instrumentality—the means by which something is done—was
expressed in Proto-Indo-European by its own instrumental case. The instrumen-
tal has a long and distinguished history, and even survives into the Germanic
languages, including Old English.
Given its obvious utility, what may be surprising is that by historical times—
which is to say those times from which we have surviving texts of any length—
neither Greek nor Latin has a distinct instrumental case any longer. In both
languages, the instrumental case has fallen into another. In Greek it became part
of the dative. In Latin it became part of the ablative, and there are Latin ablative of
means and Greek dative of means constructions to prove it. There are a few irreg-
ularities about this convergence of the various pieces that become clear in what
follows, but they are not enormously problematic, and probably don’t require any
elaboration here.
Manner
MannerconstructionsaretypicallydoneinGreekwiththedativecase,butinLatin
with the ablative, which puts them squarely in the camp of the other instrumen-
tal-associative constructions. It’s reasonable to consider manner constructions
as being somewhere along the spectrum from means to accompaniment. They
describe things that enable, facilitate, or accompany the action, whatever it is, in
something more than an incidental way. Take, for example, the following:
κραυγῇ πολλῇ ἐπίασιν
They will advance with a loud shout.
—Herodotus, Histories 6.112
Magna cum laude
With great honor
In one respect these are similar to genitives of quality: most often, they’re accom-
panied by a quantifier, especially in those situations where the characteristic or
manner unqualified could be considered normative or obvious, and where the
138	 Syntactical Mechanics
quantity is the main point of information. In these examples, the point is not that
there was a shout, but that it was loud, and not that there was some honor, but
that there was great honor. In Latin, the word cum is necessary if there isn’t an
accompanying adjective, and optional if there is.
Objects of verbs, direct and indirect
Thedirectobjectofaverbisalwaysintheaccusative.Thedirectobjectreferstowhat
is affected by the action of the transitive verb. As discussed above, this is apparently
an outgrowth of the goal-of-motion figure of thought. It is, however, important to
remember that not everything we conceive of as being transitive in English is also
transitive in Greek or Latin. These curiosities must be learned lexically.
Normally, the direct object will be expressed in the accusative, while the indi-
rect object, where one exists, is in the dative:
I hit the baseball.
I gave the book to him.
This will occur frequently after verbs of giving, telling, showing, entrusting, and
sometimes other verbs that are felt as having an indirect object—“command,”
“answer,” and so on. In Greek and Latin, as in English, there are usually variant
forms for referring to these activities with and without indirect objects:
Caesar iussit legionem.
Caesar commanded the legion. (direct object)
Caesar legioni imperavit.
Caesar gave orders to the legion. (indirect object)
The particular constructions required just need to be learned as part of the lexical
information about each word.
Similar complications arise between direct objects and means; in English, one
might say:
We threw rocks at the approaching soldiers.
We understand here that the rock is the thing thrown; the approaching soldiers are
put into a prepositional phrase, acting adverbially to modify the whole construc-
tion. Greek, however, takes a different approach. It’s not necessarily any more or
less accurate or correct than the English one; but Greek would normally say:
λίθοις εἰσεβάλλομεν τοὺς στρατιῶτας τοὺς ἐπίοντας.
	 nouns	 139
which is to say, effectively:
We threw-at the approaching soldiers with [by means of] rocks.
Note, however, that if we select a slightly different English verb, we wind up with
something that works exactly the same way:
We pelted the approaching soldiers with rocks.
Objects of prepositions
It is worth recalling at the outset that prepositions are fundamentally adverbs in
origin, and a majority of prepositional phrases continue to carry an obviously
adverbial burden. The preposition, so analyzed, is merely an adverb that has
acquired a conventional relationship to an object of some sort or another, and has
become fossilized in this form.
Prepositions in Latin and Greek take objects in the instrumental, the ablative,
and the accusative. What this means in practical terms (as you can see in figures
9 and 10) is that Greek prepositions can have objects in the genitive (originally
ablative), the dative (originally instrumental), and the accusative. In Latin, these
three cases have collapsed into two—the ablative and the accusative.
Latin prepositions
Most Latin prepositions take an accusative object. Of those prepositions in regular
and established use, a very short list invariably take the ablative:
	 ab (a)	 coram	 cum
	 de	 ex (e)	 prae
	pro	 sine
Tenus, palam, procul, absque, and simul are also sometimes analyzed as preposi-
tions with the ablative, and sometimes as adverbs. One can read Latin for years,
however, without encountering some of them at all.
There are only four prepositions that take both the accusative and the ablative,
and the distinction in their usage is particularly instructive:
	in	 sub	 subter
	super
Where one of these four prepositions is used with an accusative object, its mean-
ing (consistent with the fundamental notion of “toward-ness” or “at-ness”) will
	140
Preposition Accusative Ablative Genitive
a, ab — from —
ad to, at — —
adversus toward, against — —
ante before — —
apud by, before — —
circa around — —
circiter about — —
circum around — —
cis this side of — —
citra this side of — —
clam unknown to — —
coram — in the presence of —
contra against — —
cum — with —
de — from, down from —
e, ex — from, out of —
erga toward — —
extra outside — —
in into (motion) in (static) —
infra below — —
inter between — —
intus — within —
iuxta next to, close by — —
ob before, on account of — —
palam — in the presence of —
penes in the power of — —
per through — —
pone behind — —
post behind, following — —
prae — in front of —
praeter beyond — —
pro — before —
procul — far away from —
prope near, next to — —
propter because of — —
secundum according to, following — —
simul — together with —
sine — without —
sub under (motion) under (static) —
subter under (motion) under (static) —
super over (motion) over (static) —
supra above, over — —
tenus — as far as as far as
trans across — —
ultra beyond — —
usque up to, as far as — —
versus toward, against — —
Fig. 9. Latin Prepositions
	 nouns	 141
convey motion into a situation. Hence in with the accusative effectively means the
same thing as our “into”; in with the ablative (arguably originally an instrumental
notion) expresses a state of repose:
Eunt in casam.
They are going into the house.
but
Sunt in casa.
They are in the house.
A completely parallel sense governs the other three, sub, subter, and super.
In Latin, all other prepositions take the accusative, all the time. A more thor-
ough list of almost everything that can function as a preposition in Latin is pro-
vided in figure 9, but it adds relatively little practical information to these handy
rules of thumb.
Greek prepositions
The Greek system is somewhat more complicated. Sorting out the Greek preposi-
tions and their objects ultimately requires that you memorize which prepositions
take which objects to produce which meanings. Nevertheless, a basic grasp of their
clustered meanings will go a long way toward simplifying the apparent chaos.
As one can see from the chart of Greek prepositions (figure 10), all those
prepositions that have a fundamental idea of movement from (ἀπό, ἐκ, and the
relevant senses of παρά and ὑπό) are given to the genitive, which bespeaks an
original ablative force. Those that have a basic notion of movement toward (ἀνά,
εἰς, and the relevant senses of ἐπί, παρά, περί, πρός, ὑπέρ, and ὑπό) take the accu-
sative. The ones that take the dative are generally those in which we find a sense
of stasis—“at-ness” in the locative sense, rather than anything involving motion.
Most conspicuous among these is of course ἐν, which is contrasted with εἰς much
as in with the ablative compares to in with the accusative in Latin. But the sense of
σύν arguably is similar in kind, since it expresses the idea that something is with or
by something else, not in motion either toward it or away from it.
A few of the prepositions have what would have to be considered unique
meanings for each of the case constructions, and they simply must be learned.
There is some correlation with the general system in the case of ἐπί, for example,
but it is not quite stable enough to submit to easy analysis this way. The general
pattern, however, will help.
142	 Syntactical Mechanics
Possession: Belonging and owning
To this point, we have not discussed the genitive much, other than as the Greek
expression of its ancestral ablative. The two main functions of the genitive, how-
ever—the possessive and the partitive—can be viewed as the logical forebears of all
the remaining truly genitival constructions (as opposed to the ablatival genitives,
which are also extremely important in Greek; they don’t occur in Latin).
The genitive seems most comfortable as a kind of substitute for the attributive
adjective. Genitives are much less likely, in either Greek or Latin, to anchor the
main predicate of a clause or a sentence. In such situations, both languages are
much more likely to use the dative, which expresses the idea relationally:
Mihi nomen est C. Iulius Caesar.
To me [the] name is C. Julius Caesar.
(I.e., My name is C. Julius Caesar.)
Preposition Genitive (Ablatival) Dative (Instrumental) Accusative
ἀμφί concerning — about, around
ἀνά — — up along, up
ἀντί instead of, for — —
ἀπό from — —
διά through — through, because of
εἰς ~ ἐς — — into
ἐκ ~ ἐξ out of — —
ἐν — in, among (loc.) —
ἐπί on, atop on, near, at, by on, against
κατά down from [cf. ἀνά] — down, by distributive
μετά with — after
παρά beside, from the side of at, at the side of
to the side of,
compared with
περί about, concerning — about, near
πρό before — —
πρός toward, to at, near, in addition to
to, with reference to,
against
σύν ~ ξύν — with, by aid of —
ὑπέρ above, on behalf of — over, exceeding
ὑπό
under, through
cause, agent
under static under motion
Fig. 10. Greek Prepositions
	 nouns	 143
Greek uses the parallel construction:
ὄνομα μοί ἐστι . . .
ἔδοξα ἀκοῦσαι ὄνομα αὐτῷ εἶναι Ἀγάθωνα
I thought I heard his name was Agathon.
—Plato, Protagoras 315e
In both Greek and Latin, the dative construction is more idiomatic than one with
the possessive adjective/pronoun (nomen meum); the use of the genitive of the
personal pronoun (nomen mei), while logically unassailable, is virtually unheard
of (no more idiomatic in Latin than “the name of me” would be in English).
Still, with a different verb, a genitive is entirely possible:
Δαρείου καὶ Παρυσάτιδος γίγνονται παῖδες δύο.
Of (or from) Darius and Parysatis are [born] two sons.
(I.e., Darius and Parysatis have two sons.)
(Or simply) There are two sons of Darius and Parysatis.
—Xenophon, Anabasis 1.1.1
Within the larger field of possession, there are many cases that are felt, by vir-
tue of the verb, to be predisposed toward one or the other construction. A word
like ἄρχω, “I rule,” so strongly favors the genitive that it would be quite odd to say:
Cyrus was the ruler to that region.
—that is, using a dative. There are many other similar situations in Latin. Ulti-
mately, there is no absolute rule to govern all these lexical peculiarities.
Where the word modified by the genitive noun is itself an abstract noun repre-
senting some kind of verbal idea—that is, an action (particularly a transitive one),
another set of important categories raises its head. We can talk about these mod-
ifying genitives as either objective or subjective. This is occasionally intimidating
to students, but the underlying concept is simple enough. They are distinguished
one from another by context alone; functionally, one (the subjective genitive)
represents the subject of an action implicit in the word modified, and the other
the object.
In English we tend to separate these loosely by using the possessive for the
subjective genitive and a prepositional phrase with “of” for the objective geni-
tive, though this is by no means a hard rule. In any case, in Greek and Latin, a
phrase like
144	 Syntactical Mechanics
φιλία τοῦ πατρός
amor patris
[the] love of a father
can refer either to the father’s love for his children or to a child’s love for a father.
Neither is absolutely more correct than the other; context is the only rational
determinant here.
The partitive
Akin to the possessive genitive is the partitive genitive. It’s not entirely different in
its impulse, but it is distinct enough to be classified as something separate, and it’s
useful to learn to recognize it. The partitive genitive expresses the whole of which
we are talking about a part. Thus:
The lid of a box
. . . ὃς νῦν πολλὸν ἄριστος Ἀχαιῶν εὔχεται εἶναι
. . . who now boasts that he is by far the best of the Achaeans
—Homer, Iliad 1.91
Material, measure, and quality
Genitives of material, quality, contents, measure, price, value, and the like are with-
out conflicting uses in the other cases, and mostly they correspond very closely
to English forms. They are still not entirely without complications, however, and
are used with some subtlety. In the simplest forms they seem intuitively obvious
to English speakers:
Romulus made an altar of stone. (genitival)
Romulus made an altar from [out of] stone. (ablatival, separative)
Both Greek and Latin use the same construction, which is not overly surprising.
In Latin, in particular, the genitive of quality comes with its own peculiar wrinkle:
the genitive of permanent quality is frequent enough, but it will virtually never
appear without a modifying adjective. Thus one can say:
Fuit vir magnae fortitudinis.
He was a man of great strength.
	 nouns	 145
but not
Fuit vir fortitudinis.
He was a man of strength.
The latter usage seems a bit strange even in English, but few speakers can really
identify why, or what it would need to make it sound normal to their ears. My
own conjecture is that the unaccompanied genitive of quality would, to a native
Latin-speaker, sound like noninformation. We would perceive it the same way in
some cases, but not others. To us, “He was a man of strength” sounds reasonable,
but we would probably not say: “He was a man of height.” Everyone is a person of
some height or other; telling us that would be pointless. The quantifier is the actual
information here; without it we’re simply building a frame of reference and then
not filling it.
When used to describe material or contents, the genitive is usually used more
or less the same way an attributive adjective is used, but it can be a predicate as
well. It may be literal or figurative:
The table was of wood. (material, literal)
She had a will of iron. (material, metaphorical)
I gave her a glass of water. (contents)
Akin to this use, but formally distinct from it, is the genitive of price or value:
We usually buy gasoline at a high price. (I.e., “of a high price”)
It costs three talents a gallon. (I.e., “of three talents”)
Similar to this too is the genitive of measure, which is not very different from the
genitive of quality discussed above:
It was a staff of seven feet.
In the case of certain verbs of perceiving, Greek is particularly exact in using
the partitive genitive of the thing perceived—especially in the case of hearing.
Hence, while we normally have
I saw the wolf.
for hearing, we find both of the following:
I heard the trumpet. (I.e. “of the trumpet,” genitive)
I heard the trumpet. (accusative)
which mean more or less the same thing in such a context. The partitive con-
146	 Syntactical Mechanics
struction would not normally be used for hearing about something, however; for
that in Greek one would use a prepositional phrase with περί. The fundamental
idea driving the use of the genitive with ἀκούω or the like seems to be in differ-
entiating the trumpet itself from its sound, which is of or from the trumpet. One
cannot hear the trumpet directly: one hears only its output. The distinction may
seem overly fastidious in English, since there seems to be no other way to hear a
trumpet than to hear the sound that it makes, but the idea is not at least in itself
irrational.
Arguably this use of the genitive is more fundamentally ablatival than geni-
tival—it has to do with the sound being something that comes from or out of the
trumpet. It’s included here among the genitive constructions for convenience.
Relation
As noted above, the dative case is primarily about relationship and relevance;
almost every one of the catalog of dative constructions—indirect object, advan-
tage and disadvantage, the ethical dative, and so on—can be boiled down to this
single central idea. By historical time some of these functions have been taken
over by prepositional constructions, but the dative remains robust and useful.
It’s the subjectivizing element, one might argue: most instances of the dative
will express, one way or another, the person to whom (much less frequently
the thing to which) the predication is relevant or true. Grasping this central
concept really will rationalize most of the constructions that grammars catalog
separately.
The so-called dative of agent in Greek or Latin is a case in point. To think of
it as being anything like the genitive or ablative of agent with passive verbs is to
misunderstand how it means what it means. Allen and Greenough (§374, n. 2)
argue that the Latin version is “either a special case of the Dative of Possession or
a development of the Dative of Reference.” There seems to me to be little doubt
that it’s the latter.
The Greek dative of agent is generally confined to the perfect forms of the verb,
which (as has been discussed above) reflect the resulting state or condition derived
from the verbal activity. It also shows up with verbal adjectives in -τος and -τεος,
reflecting the obligation to do something. In both cases, therefore, it is similarly
relational—specifying to or for whom something is in a having-been-completed
condition, or to or for whom it remains to be accomplished:
	 nouns	 147
οἱ δὲ Κορίνθιοι, ἐπειδὴ αὐτοῖς παρεσκεύαστο, ἔπλεον ἐπὶ τὴν
Κέρκυραν ναυσὶ πεντήκοντα καὶ ἑκατόν.
But the Corinthians, when the preparations were in a having-been-
completed condition respecting them, sailed to Corcyra with 150 ships.
(I.e., . . . when preparations had been made by them . . . )
—Thucydides, Peloponnesian War 1.46
. . . ἡμῖν γ᾽ ὑπὲρ τῆς ἐλευθερίας ἀγωνιστέον.
. . . for us, at least, it is necessary to fight for the sake of liberty.
(I.e., . . . but we, at least, must fight for liberty.)
—Demosthenes, Philippic 3.70
The Latin dative of agent is similar, though it tends to be confined to the
gerund and gerundive forms—akin, therefore, to the Greek verbal adjectives in
-τος and -τεος:
. . . itaque haec vobis provincia, Quirites . . . non modo a calamitate
sed etiam a metu calamitatis est defendenda.
. . . therefore this province is in a to-be-defended condition for you,
Romans . . . not only from disaster but from the fear of disaster.
(I.e., . . . therefore you must defend this province, Romans . . . )
—Cicero, On Pompey’s Command 14
Respect
Seemingly akin to the relational constructions recounted above are constructions
of respect. These are concerned with restricting the scope of a predication, not in
terms of the person to whom it’s relevant, but the area or sphere of understanding
that defines it.
The fact that these constructions most typically fall to the dative in Greek and
to the ablative in Latin, it may be reasonable to assume that at least this form of
the construction is an outgrowth of the instrumental—that is, that its original
formulation expresses the means by which something is true.
Somewhat more difficult to account for is the accusative of respect in Greek
(which is also adopted into Latin on occasion—probably as a deliberate Helleniz-
ing feature). It may be an outgrowth of a more generic adverbial accusative, but it
would be hard to establish that rigorously.
148	 Syntactical Mechanics
Overall their uses do not seem to differ greatly. The dative of respect (the first
examplebelow)israthersimilartothe accusative ofrespect(thesecondexample):
καὶ γὰρ ὁρᾶν στυγνὸς ἦν καὶ τῇ φωνῇ τραχύς . . .
for he was gloomy to look at and harsh in [respect to his] voice . . .
—Xenophon, Anabasis 2.6.9
τοῖσι δ᾽ ἀνιστάμενος μετέφη πόδας ὠκὺς Ἀχιλλεύς . . .
Standing forth before them, Achilles swift with respect to his feet said . . .
(I.e., . . . swift-footed Achilles said . . . )
—Homer, Iliad 1.58
You can see how closely the Latin ablative of respect (sometimes called the abla-
tive of specification) echoes these constructions, and is used for virtually the same
kinds of referents:
. . . lingua haesitantes, voce absoni . . .
. . . halting in [respect to their] speech, and harsh in [respect to their]
voice . . .
—Cicero, On the Orator 1.115
Nam et statura fuit humili et corpore exiguo et claudus altero pede.
For he was short in [respect to his] stature and slight in [respect to his]
body and lame in [respect to] one foot.
—Nepos, Agesilaus 8
Cause
An example of a causal construction is as follows:
Crossing the river was hard on account of the flood.
Most frequently in both Greek and Latin, this concept will be expressed with a
prepositional phrase. The bare ablative of cause in Latin is nevertheless attested.
To many students this may seem to correspond to the instrumental sense of the
case. In fact, however, the corresponding Greek version is in the genitive, which
suggests instead an ablatival or separative notion of causation—specifically,
denoting the situation out of which something else emerges. In this regard, these
	 nouns	 149
constructions may conservatively prefigure the more freewheeling absolutes,
discussed at the end of this chapter:
εὐδαίμων γάρ μοι ἁνὴρ ἐφαίνετο, ὦ Ἐχέκρατες, καὶ τοῦ τρόπου καὶ
τῶν λόγων.
The man seemed to be happy to me, both from [on account of] his
character and from [on account of] his words.
—Plato, Phaedo 58e
multis in rebus neglegentia plectimur . . .
we are punished from [on account of] our negligence in many spheres . . .
—Cicero, On Friendship 85
Adverbial accusative
It is hard to construct a compelling rationale to account for the adverbial accu-
sative, other than to trace it back to the idea that it provides a limiting condition
(hence, metaphorically, a goal of motion) for the predication in question. It can
be used with nouns, pronouns, and adjectives. Compare the English usage with
adjectives and nouns to form the adverbial sense:
They went the quickest way.
(I.e., . . . by [means of] the quickest way)
Greek uses the accusative for this kind of construction:
τὴν ταχίστην (ὁδόν)
English adjectives and nouns, being unmarked for case, don’t make the distinc-
tion. The neuter interrogative pronoun (esp. with an intransitive verb) for why can
also be understood as an adverbial accusative:
τί ἦλθεν;
Why [i.e., (for) what] did he come?
ὁ Μεγαβάτης . . . ἔπλεε πρόφασιν ἐπ᾽ Ἑλλησπόντου . . .
Then Megabates . . . sailed [as] a pretext to the Hellespont . . .
—Herodotus, Histories 5. 33; trans. A. D. Godley
150	 Syntactical Mechanics
Cognate accusative
The cognate accusative draws the action of the verb out to form a pseudo-object,
often used with a verb that is actually intransitive in sense, sometimes not. It is
somewhat similar to the accusative of respect or adverbial accusative:
He fought the good fight. (not in the same sense as “against the good
fight,” which is the usual sense of an accusative object of “fight”)
He walked his aimless walk. (object of an otherwise intransitive verb)
Agency with passive verbs
It is fairly common for students learning elementary Latin to confuse the construc-
tions of personal agent with the instrumental. There is of course a certain apparent
similarity in concept, since the means by which something is done is arguably
akin to the agent by whom it is done. Students often think of the Latin ablative of
personal agent as a kind of specialized case of the instrumental ablative, therefore,
though it comes oddly fitted out with the preposition ab. Some grammars rein-
force this perception.
If the historical principles I’ve been suggesting here are valid, however, it’s
a mistaken perception. Comparison of the Latin and Greek constructions will
bring the matter into focus. In Greek, personal agency is accomplished with the
preposition ὑπό followed (as ὑπό invariably is) by the genitive. If both of these
have derived from the same source—something of a leap of faith, but seemingly
supported by the evidence—the comparison highlights an intriguing difference.
The fact that the instrumental construction is achieved with the ablative in Latin
and with the dative in Greek confirms the fairly obvious notion that the parent
construction was instrumental too: what else would we expect? The fact that
the Greek personal-agent construction employs the genitive, however, suggests
instead an ancestral true ablative construction—that is, a separative one, bespeak-
ing not instrumentality but source. Further bolstering this notion is the fact that in
poetic usage the genitive of agent will occasionally appear without any preposition:
. . . σὺ δ᾽ ἐν Ἀΐδα
κεῖσαι, σᾶς ἀλόχου σφαγαῖς
Αἰγίσθου τ᾽, Ἀγάμεμνον.
. . . But you, Agamemnon, lie in Hades, by the butchery of your wife
and Aegisthus.
—Euripides, Electra 122–24
	 nouns	 151
I would go further, and suggest that this is in fact of a piece with what has been
said earlier about the accusative direct object as an outgrowth of the goal-of-motion
construction. If in fact the notion of transitivity is ultimately a figurative extension
of the physical and spatial notion of movement toward or at someone or some-
thing, the agent construction forms a complement to that idea, rooted in a similar
abstraction of motion from. It’s about where the action comes from. On this view,
I would argue, the agent construction takes on a more rational, though earthier,
vigor—and distinguishing it from the instrumental construction is simple.
The absolute: A tentative interpretation
Both Greek and Latin have absolute constructions that are often seen as perversely
difficult. The basic rule of the absolute is that it is precisely that—absolute: that is,
it must be unattached. By this, grammarians mean that it must not be tied to any
other word or phrase in the sentence in which it occurs. (There are occasional
exceptions, even in good authors, but they are rare, and usually betoken a loss of
focus, or a confusion about where the sentence is going.) The ablative absolute
in Latin and the genitive absolute in Greek normally express something about the
surrounding circumstances, however. Sometimes this construction is even referred
to as the ablative (or genitive) of attendant circumstance.
The suggestive power of the absolute construction would be hard to overesti-
mate. It is capable of “hanging” or “floating” a secondary thought over a sentence
in a kind of semantic cloud, while refusing to specify just how the one idea is to be
connected to the other. It is capable, moreover, of planting an idea without taking
responsibility for the reader’s apprehension of it.
Caesare duce, Vercingetorix victus est.
literally means only
Caesar [being] general, Vercingetorix was conquered.
It is up to the reader to decide whether this means
Because Caesar was the general, Vercingetorix was conquered.
or
When Caesar was the general, Vercingetorix was conquered.
or even (theoretically)
Although Caesar was the general, Vercingetorix was conquered.
152	 Syntactical Mechanics
Any of those is a legitimate interpretation of the absolute; none of them is
compelling. The ambiguity is intrinsic to the construction itself. Certain authors
employ it rather freely; others use it with clinical precision to plant doubt and
nurture ambiguity. Some well-meaning teachers insist that absolutes always be
translated analytically—that is, providing some resolution to the ambiguity. But
if an author has used it precisely to create and foster ambiguity, an unambigu-
ous translation overlooks at least one potential point of the absolute, and hence
obscures the author’s intention by flattening it to a single choice.
Some grammarians have been at pains to identify what the Greek and Latin
absolute constructions are about and where they come from, but I’m not entirely
comfortable with their conclusions. Allen and Greenough’s generally reliable
grammar of Latin argues that the ablative absolute is “perhaps of instrumental
origin. It is, however, sometimes explained as an outgrowth of the locative, and in
any event certain locative constructions (of place and time) must have contributed
to its development.” E. C. Woodcock (A New Latin Syntax) considers the ablative
absolute to be a special case of the ablative of attendant circumstance, which
seems defensible, but clusters it among the “sociative-instrumental” functions of
the ablative (§§43, 49).
I disagree. It seems to me that the fact that the answering construction in
Greek is not a dative but a genitive absolute clearly indicates that this usage is of
ablatival origin. To revert once again to drawing these figures of thought from a
physical analogue, I think one can best apprehend its meaning in terms of sepa-
ration or emergence. In other words, the ablative or genitive absolute represents
a circumstance that is to be understood as more generative than attendant—the
source or context from which the specific action of the sentence’s main predication
arises. Viewed in this way, the absolute becomes a good deal more consistent, and
even its ambiguity—which allows it to range from causal to concessive and back
again—can be brought under control.
Caesare duce, Vercingetorix victus est.
becomes something more like
From Caesar [being] general, [it emerged that] Vercingetorix
was conquered.
Understanding the absolute construction as being fundamentally about source
and context, rather than something else, will also account for the fact that it is
absolute without that being an artificial or arbitrary stricture. Few rules in natural
language really arise for no reason; fewer still will endure under those circum-
stances. Instead, I would argue that the “absoluteness” naturally expresses the fact
	 nouns	 153
that nothing can reasonably be understood as coming forth from itself. As long as
one grasps it on these terms, the canonical separation from the other elements of
the sentence is virtually inevitable. In later Latin and Greek, the critical erosion of
the absolute probably documents as clearly as anything could the final breakdown
of that intuitively separative understanding.
	154
Chapter 9
Verbal Nouns and Adjectives
Words that come from verbs and can slide into other roles
Nouns
On the ancient definition of the term, the so-called verbals are verbal nouns. That
is, they are verbs that have been rendered into some noun form—but “noun” in
this sense refers to both substantives and adjectives.
In practical terms, however, we may distinguish verbal adjectives from verbal
substantives—what are usually referred to in English usage as verbal nouns. There
are two kinds of verbal substantives (the infinitive and the gerund) in general
use in English and Latin, though there is only one in Greek; the verbal adjective
is always the participle, though the range of possible participles varies hugely.
English and Latin have fairly limited participles; Greek has a vast and robust sys-
tem of participles that do a good deal of the heavy lifting of the language.
We’ve already sketched an outline of how these work. Since verbals arguably
function as either substantives or adjectives, one can confidently assert that this
is, fundamentally, what they are, but, at the same time, they have certain super-
powers not granted to normal mortal nouns and adjectives. No other nouns, for
example, are marked for tense or for voice. (Verbals are not normally marked for
mood, and indeed, the form of the verbal—infinitive, gerund, or participle—is
often classed as a kind of pseudomood of its own; they are not marked for per-
son, either.) Participles are marked for number, but in this respect they are not
particularly different from other adjectives. Substantive verbals—infinitives and
gerunds—are all considered singular in Latin and Greek. (Neither language seems
to have considered a plural gerund, like the occasionally heard English “comings
and goings.”)
Verbals can often also take objects, and certainly the range of possibilities
attaching to the Greek participle, vast as it is, is enormous.
	 verbal nouns and adjectives	 155
Infinitives
The simplest verbal substantive is the infinitive. People often don’t even think of
it as being a noun, but as a strange form of the verb that they just use in certain
situations. It typically is used to complement other verbs, is sometimes used with
verbs of speaking to express indirect speech, and at other times approaches the
normal use of the noun.
In fact it is always a noun. In English we have a synthetic infinitive, invariably
made of “to” followed by the verb itself:
to run
to say
to hit
The reasons for this curious formulation are matters of historical Germanic
linguistics. Old English had a simple one-word infinitive, as does modern Ger-
man. The fact that the English infinitive is a composite of two words is the source
of the anxiety surrounding the so-called split infinitive: according to some stylists
(especially of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries) it was unacceptable
to separate the “to” from the verb itself with any intervening words. There are
a number of reasons for this, some of them good. Some have claimed that the
insistence derives from Latin usage, since Latin infinitives, being only one word,
cannot possibly be split. This seems a somewhat dubious explanation on exam-
ination, since Latin’s very inability to split its infinitive would have precluded any
special rules arising in this regard.
The prohibition against the split infinitive is one of those apparently arbitrary
rules that has been ignored by good authors since the earliest days of modern
English. Shakespeare gleefully (and probably unconsciously) splits infinitives
in plays and poems. Modern authors do the same. Star Trek enshrined in the
language the catchphrase “to boldly go where no man has gone before.” (Subse-
quent versions of that show, catering to more modern sensibilities, changed the
language that was considered sexist, but the split infinitive remains: “to boldly go
where no one has gone before.”) Concern for the split infinitive is probably now
at an all-time low.
That being said, it’s arguable that in general, without making it a cause of undue
anxiety, avoiding split infinitives is probably a good idea. There are two reasons.
First, the farther the “to” is removed from its verb, the longer the hearer or
reader has to bear in mind the fact that an infinitive is on the way—or, more accu-
rately, in the works. In the era of attention spans fine-tuned by television and the
Internet, that may be overly taxing.
156	 Syntactical Mechanics
Second, and perhaps more serious, is the fact that “to” has a perfectly respect-
able life as a preposition, and the farther it gets from its verb, the more likely it is
to be misconstrued that way. In spoken language the problem is trebled: “to” is
not normally pronounced very differently from “too” or “two,” and any or all of
those meanings could spontaneously emerge from an unattached prepositional
or infinitival “to.” Accordingly I normally encourage my students not to split infin-
itives—not out of my (admitted) native stodginess, but in the simple interest of
clarity.
None of this is a problem in Greek or Latin, since they have one-word infini-
tives:
	laudare	 habuisse	 παιδεύειν
	παῦσαι	 διαλέγεσθαι
As noted, the infinitive retains certain of the functional properties of the verb,
inasmuch as it can still be marked for tense or take objects:
to have run
to be going to run
to have said this
to hit the baseball
These are not among the normal capacities of nouns, considered simply. This
is one of the reasons that verbals can occasionally be tricky and difficult to
analyze.
Greek has promoted the infinitive to a more flexible tool than either Latin
or English by the so-called articular infinitive. The articular infinitive is simply
an infinitive (which is regarded as a neuter singular noun) bound up with an
article. Thus the infinitive παιδεύειν can be rendered in any of the four cases of
Greek:
τὸ παιδεύειν
τοῦ παιδεύειν
τῷ παιδεύειν
τὸ παιδεύειν
The infinitive itself undergoes no change, but the case is indicated by the article.
Of course the first and last forms here are identical, but the context seldom
leaves much ambiguity about how the infinitive is to be taken. Accordingly τὸ
παιδεύειν would be used as we use either the infinitive or the gerund in English
as subject:
	 verbal nouns and adjectives	 157
ἀγαθὸν τὸ παιδεύειν
To teach [is] good.
or
Teaching [is] good.
It may also appear as an object or in any other function in a sentence:
τοῦ παιδεύειν
of teaching
τῷ παιδεύειν
for teaching, by means of teaching
τὸ παιδεύειν
teaching (as object)
The articular infinitive accordingly obviates any need for a gerund in Greek, and,
as was mentioned earlier, there is none.
Gerunds
The gerund is perhaps the least-understood English verb form, and people are
confused about it in Latin as well. Adding to the confusion is the fact that in
English it looks exactly like the present active participle. In the sentence
Swimming is prohibited.
the word “swimming” is a gerund.
In the sentence
I saw the man swimming.
“swimming” is a participle. This of course perplexes people, but the difference is
one of function: the gerund is a noun (substantive). It is capable of standing as a
subject, as in the first example, or as an object:
I like swimming.
The participle, which we will discuss shortly, is an adjective, though a uniquely
powerful one with a number of extra abilities.
158	 Syntactical Mechanics
The English gerund is used more or less interchangeably with the infinitive;
though it is a little more stilted, it would not be ungrammatical to say:
To swim is prohibited.
It would not even seem stilted to say:
I like to swim.
The infinitive can do some things that the gerund cannot, and the gerund can do a
few things that the infinitive cannot, but in general they divide the field somewhat
chaotically and redundantly in English. Many of the places where complementary
infinitives can be used, the gerund can slide into place:
He began swimming.
Not so in Latin. The infinitive and the gerund divide the duties of verbal noun
neatly between them. The infinitive is treated as a neuter verbal noun, but because
the infinitive is not inflected any further, there would be no way to tell—either
positionally or otherwise—whether it was serving as a subject (nominative) or as
an object or possessive in another case. Accordingly, the infinitive is reserved for
the nominative, while the gerund takes up the other cases. As elsewhere, the Latin
gerund is not inflected for number; it is always a singular neuter noun. These ger-
unds can do things that are normally characteristic of verbs, such as taking objects.
That being said, it should be noted that Classical Latin generally chafes at
abstract nouns, and there is a decided tendency to avoid the gerund when it is pos-
sible and reasonable to do so. The same cannot be said for Medieval Latin, which
developed an almost diametrically opposite delight in abstract nouns (including
gerunds). These become the staple of Scholastic thought, and authors such as
Thomas Aquinas, Duns Scotus, and William of Ockham use them routinely.
Greek is able to do without the gerund altogether, since the articular infinitive
is so flexible. Any infinitive can be put into any case required, merely by bundling
it up with the relevant article.
The mighty participle
The participle is, from the ancient point of view, also a verbal noun—but a verbal
adjective as opposed to a verbal substantive. However you classify them, participles
are, like gerunds and infinitives, capable of taking on some of the distinctive mark-
ings of verbs, and also of pointing to objects and of being modified by adverbs and
adverbial clauses or phrases.
	 verbal nouns and adjectives	 159
The English participles form a rather spare set. We have a present active
participle and a perfect passive participle, and that’s about it. The present active
form looks just like the gerund, but it’s used differently. In weak verbs the perfect
participle tends to be the same form as the active participle, but with “-ed” rather
than “-ing” on the end. In strong verbs often the root itself undergoes change,
often with “-en” for the perfect passive participle. Hence:
Facilitate, facilitating, facilitated
Break, breaking, broken
It’s important to differentiate the present active participle from the gerund in
practice. There’s no way to do so by merely looking at the word in isolation, but by
taking the context carefully into consideration, it’s usually not particularly hard.
There are a few tough boundary cases, and we’ll take those up shortly.
In English, then, we have two kinds of participles—active and passive. Strictly
speaking, English participles are marked for tense, too: the active participle is
present, and the passive participle is past (arguably perfect). In this regard the
names of the forms and their broadest functions are more or less the same as those
of Latin. But in practice the distinctions of tense and voice are weaker; we can
turn our perfect passive participle (“broken”) into a present passive participle by
the addition of “being”:
The wall was broken [i.e., it was in a broken state; it had been
broken already].
The wall was being broken [i.e., the process was going on].
This pattern is not as easily applicable to all situations, however. While one can
use the perfect passive participle attributively:
The broken wall was covered with ivy.
it’s not as easy to import the “being” variation into the attributive situation:
The being broken wall was covered with ivy.
One might plausibly say:
The wall, being broken, was covered with ivy.
but the commas tell us that “being broken” is a parenthetical modifier. If we left
the commas out, it would effectively turn into a compressed relative clause:
The wall [that was] being broken was covered with ivy.
160	 Syntactical Mechanics
In an oddly nonparallel construction, moreover, we can create a composite per-
fect active participle, but to do so we couple the auxiliary verb “having” with the
passive rather than the active participle. This shows the active form:
The Goths storming the city met fierce resistance.
The compound past active form can be seen in this example:
Having stormed the city, the Goths went away with their plunder.
All of which, perhaps, argues merely that our relationship with our English parti-
ciples is very complex, and laden with potential ambiguities and pitfalls.
More problematic for our purposes here, a foggy apprehension of how the
English participle works will tend to slop over into our understanding of the
participle in Latin and Greek, and that’s usually not helpful. Probably a majority
of students learning elementary Latin have some difficulty embracing the notion
that the perfect passive participle in Latin really is perfect, and not equally at
home as a present. But it’s not.
Not quite participles
We mentioned the problem of words that look like participles—really derived
from a verb, really ending in “-ing,” and really acting as adjectives, but still not
really functioning as participles. This issue gets past even some grammarians, and
I have seen examples in books that purport to be teaching grammar (in one way or
another) that have failed to distinguish them altogether.
The word “running” is a participle when used in sentences like these:
The police apprehended the running man.
I saw the man running down the street.
The first of these is what we call an attibutive use of the participle, while the second
one is circumstantial, but they’re both participles. On the other hand, “running” is
not really a participle when used in a sentence like the following:
I bought a new pair of running shoes yesterday.
Why? For the simple reason that the shoes were not in fact running when you
bought them. One indicator is the fact that one could not reverse the order with-
out destroying the meaning:
I saw a pair of shoes running.
	 verbal nouns and adjectives	 161
This “running” would be a participle, but it clearly doesn’t mean the same thing
as the previous version.
In an expression like “running shoes,” the word “running” is not really a
participle, but a gerund, operating very much the same way other nouns operate
quasi-adjectivally, as domain-restricting modifiers (e.g., “baseball bat,” “track
shoes,” “peanut butter”).
These gerunds are often mistaken for participles by those who are too zeal-
ously following the principle that says that if an “-ing” word is modifying a noun,
it must be a participle, and if not, it must be a gerund. Such rules may be con-
venient, but they are no substitute for an understanding of the actual functions
of the two kinds of words—an understanding that most of us have instinctively,
even if we don’t consciously think of it in grammatical terms. This can be verified
in casual conversation with almost any native English-speaker. In normal English
speech, unless there is some other special reason to modify the stress, such a noun
functioning as a domain-modifier (not really an adjective, but close) is almost
invariably accented more heavily than the noun it precedes. We would say:
I would like some fresh butter.
but
I would like some peanut butter.
or
He was swinging an old bat.
but
He was able to defend himself only with an old baseball bat.
The same principle distinguishes the true participle from such a restrictive
gerund in attributive position. The difference in pronunciation reflects our func-
tional understanding. We would say:
I bought a new pair of running shoes.
but
I don’t seem to be able to find a running car.
or
I have cleaned up the old frying pan.
but
This painting looks like a frying egg.
162	 Syntactical Mechanics
In written text, there is no emphasis to mark the distinction, so we must rely on
context and our sense of the passage.
One curious example arises in the Latin translation by Peter Needham of J. K.
Rowling’s Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone. There we are introduced, as
readers of the book or viewers of the movie may recall, to the Sorting Hat. I had
always taken the word “sorting” here as a restrictive gerund modifer like those
above—akin to “running” in “running shoes.” I would refer to it as
the Sorting Hat.
Needham clearly took this the other way, and translated it with the Latin present
participle—not normally used for this kind of thing—as
Petasus Distribuens.
Tomyeye,thissuggestsahatthatis(perhapsperpetually,oratleastatthemoment
when we’re discussing it) engaged in sorting. Certainly, according to the story, it
does indeed sort the students into their various houses. I had assumed, however,
that, like running shoes (which never actually run on their own, but are running
shoes even in the box), it remained the Sorting Hat even while singing a song
or sitting on a shelf. To my eye, the more characteristic Latin rendition (perhaps
colored by my background in Medieval Latin) would have been
Petasus Distribuendi
—that is, effectively,
[the] Hat of Sorting.
Such subtleties afford considerable room for speculation and amusement, though
there may be no single right answer to them.
Dangling participles and why they’re (sometimes) funny
Probably the most famous participial phenomenon in English is the so-called
dangling participle. It’s not really a construction so much as an error, but hovers
in the murky air between syntax and semantics, and can often successfully convey
something you don’t want it to convey. It can crop up, moreover, even in the work
of experienced writers and native speakers.
Because English participles are not marked for case, number, or gender (as
Latin and Greek participles are), the only way to determine what they are modify-
ing is to rely on position. In general, the rule of thumb (sometimes but not always
superseded by common sense) is that it should be construed with the nearest
	 verbal nouns and adjectives	 163
noun. When proximity is in doubt, or when the rule is simply ignored, careless
participle placement can result in such comical visions as
I saw the new stadium driving into town last week.
Assuming a rational but grammatically shaky speaker, rather than a precise but
delusional one, we probably can figure out that the meaning here would be more
clearly expressed as
Driving into the city last week, I saw the new stadium.
Alternatively, one could break it out into a clause, which would solve the problem
just as conclusively, but by a different method:
I saw the new stadium while I was driving into town last week.
Surely nobody in his or her right mind has ever seen a stadium driving into the city
or anywhere else.
If you keep your eye open for them, you can collect a list of very amusing dan-
gling participles pretty quickly. The problem becomes a more serious impediment
to communication when it’s not comical, because common sense doesn’t correct
it for you. But the ambiguity may lead to genuine misunderstanding:
I saw Jane driving into the city last week.
This is perfectly reasonable, but it is not at all the same thing as when the participle
modifies the pronoun:
Driving into the city last week, I saw Jane.
If one uses one where one intends the other—either way—misunderstanding
almost certainly will ensue. It may or may not be hilarious, depending on the
gravity of the subject matter. Clearly,
Kissing my wife, I surprised your husband.
might be only a bit of social chitchat, while a misplaced participle turns it into the
stuff of tragedy or at least soap opera:
I surprised your husband kissing my wife.
Latin: The limited participle
Latin has a more developed system of participles than does English, though its
inventory of options is still rather small compared with those of Greek. Still, Latin
164	 Syntactical Mechanics
grew to literary maturity in the shadow of Greek, and Latin authors were con-
stantly striving to emulate Greek models; this led them to push the boundaries of
the available participial constructions fairly hard, with varying success.
Latin has a present active and a perfect passive participle. They are used exten-
sively in all periods. It also has future active and passive participles, which are
somewhat less common, but still in play over most of the history of the language.
That admits four tense/voice combinations in all. There are some who would
dispute the designation of the gerundive as a participle, but it is handled as one
(future passive). There seems no reason not to classify it as such. Hence we have
forms like the following:
laudaturus
about to / going to praise
laudandus
about to be / going to be praised
Future participles have some special implications. The future active participle
often provides a compact alternative to the adverbial purpose clause:
Venio Caesarem laudaturus.
I come [being] about to praise Caesar.
(I.e., I come [in order] to praise Caesar.)
The future passive participle, on the other hand, is most often (though not exclu-
sively) used to express necessity or obligation:
Caesar laudandus est.
Caesar is about to be praised.
(I.e., Caesar is in an about-to-be praised state.)
Implicitly, this often means
Caesar ought to be praised.
Caesar should be praised.
All these forms are so common that they need to be mastered as normal ways of
saying these things. The presence of participles in composite verb forms is also
interesting, but most elementary Latin textbooks cover that issue thoroughly
enough that it needs no further discussion here.
	 verbal nouns and adjectives	 165
Greek: The unlimited participle
With Greek we find a system of participles that extends into virtually every corner
of the language experience and allows us to express a vast range of actions, expe-
riences, motivations, and entailed propositions without resorting to a complete
clause. The Greek participial system is enormous, and while its syntax is not
especially problematic, it does have some considerable nuance. Greek has parti-
ciples in the present, aorist, perfect, and future tenses (though not the imperfect,
pluperfect, or future perfect). Many of these exist in active, middle, and passive
forms, though some appear in only one or two voices.
Participles can be used to convey all manner of things, and in idiomatic Attic
Greek they often carry a burden that English-speaking students find daunting.
Often one needs to resort to a whole clause in order to express their meanings
accurately in English. More interesting still is the fact that the Greek participle will
often carry what seems to us to be the main semantic burden of a sentence (that
is, what we would translate as the main verb), while the main verb of the sentence
(there still must be one) is relegated to second-class status. Aeschylus provides a
typical example; Orestes is standing at the tomb of his father Agamemnon:
οὐ γὰρ παρὼν ᾤμωξα σόν, πάτερ, μόρον
οὐδ᾽ ἐξέτεινα χεῖρ᾽ ἐπ᾽ ἐκφορᾷ νεκροῦ.
—Aeschylus, The Libation Bearers 8–9
Literally, that would be the following:
I did not lament your death, father, being present,
Nor extend my hand for the bearing of [your] body.
In more normal idiomatic English terms, though, respecting the lifting power of
the Greek participle, that would probably be better rendered:
I was not present, father, to lament your death,
Or extend my hand to bear your body.
The emphasis has distinctly changed. Certainly the fundamental problem for
Orestes is not that he had been present, but had failed to perform the rites, but
that he was not present, and on that account he was not able to perform them.
The morphology of the Greek participles is prodigious, but beyond the scope
of this book, which concerns itself with syntax. The uses of Greek participles,
however, can be broken down into three broad classes—the attributive, the cir-
cumstantial, and the supplementary.
166	 Syntactical Mechanics
Attributive participles
An attributive participle functions as an adjective in the normal way. Greek flags
attributive adjectives of all sorts by tucking them in between the article and the
noun to be modified, and that it does so with these participles simply validates the
approach to them. Hence we find such things as this:
. . . καὶ τὸν ἐφεστηκότα κίνδυνον τῇ πόλει διαλύσειν.
. . . and that I am dispelling the danger threatening the city.
—Demosthenes, On the Crown 176
More interesting yet is the fact that the word to be modified may be omitted,
if it has an article and clearly refers to a person or a thing (that is, the adjective—in
this case a participle—is being substantivized):
ὁ ταῦτα λέγων
the saying-these-things [one]
(I.e., the one saying these things; the one who is saying these things)
In doing so, it is fully capable of replacing relative clauses with a construction of
equal power and precision, though without using a clause.
Circumstantial participles
The circumstantial participle conveys something about the circumstances sur-
rounding the action of the main verb of the clause in which the participial phrase
is found. It is not attributed narrowly to a noun to be modified, though it does in
some sense modify the noun. It is distinguished by not being put after an article,
and it effectively forms an adverbial phrase:
ταῦτα λέγων ἀπέθανεν.
[While] saying these things, he died.
ταῦτα εἴπων ἀπέθανεν.
Having said these things, he died.
ταῦτα λέξων ἀπέθανεν.
Being about to say [or intending to say] these things, he died.
	 verbal nouns and adjectives	 167
The only thing that has changed here is the tense of the participle itself. Greek
writers were normally rather fastidious about their tenses. In English we might
say:
Saying these things, he died.
meaning that he said these things and then died. Good Greek and Latin authors
normally will not: they will almost always use the aorist (Greek) or the perfect
(Latin) participle to convey the idea of action before that of the main verb. A
present participle is understood to refer exclusively to simultaneous action. (The
notable exception here is Livy, whose Latin was sometimes mocked for its Pata-
vinitas—its provincial imprecision.) Accordingly, the tenses of Greek and Latin
participles, like the tenses of the infinitives, tend to be more tense-like, and less
purely aspectual; but they are no longer about absolute time, but about time rela-
tive to the time of the main verb.
Supplementary participles
The supplementary uses of the participle are in many ways the oddest of the lot.
They are in a dynamic relationship with certain verbs or classes of verbs, and their
use can’t be considered attributive at all, nor can it be considered circumstantial.
Supplementary uses of the participle fall into three subcategories:
1. After verbs of starting, stopping, or continuing
2. After verbs expressing a mental or emotional state, to provide its cause
3. After three other particular verbs: τυγχάνω, λανθάνω, and φθάνω
There are English constructions somewhat similar to the first two of these,
though the English constructions are somewhat deceptive, since our versions are
usually thought to engage the gerund rather than participle. These are the Greek
versions:
ἄρχεται λέγων.
He begins talking.
διατελέσουσι βαίνων.
They will continue walking.
ἔπαυσα φαγῶν.
Ι stopped eating.
168	 Syntactical Mechanics
χαίρω πέσσων.
I am happy [while/when] cooking.
(I.e., I enjoy cooking.)
Participles in indirect discourse
Participles are also used—in something that is similar to the supplementary use of
the participle—in certain forms of indirect discourse (specifically indirect state-
ment). We have discussed that much already.
	 169
Chapter 10
Pronouns
A word for all seasons
If all signification is a kind of pointing, then the pronoun is arguably the most
advanced and versatile of signifiers. Its intrinsic neutrality of meaning enables
it to be assigned freely wherever one needs a shorter word for ease and clarity
of discourse. It’s called a pronoun from the Latin pronomen—and really all that
means is that it stands in for a noun.
A pronoun gains its specific local significance by being attached (for the time
being) to a given noun called its antecedent. And it’s in that ability to acquire its
meaning from its context that its glory and its weakness lie. Any given pronoun
can be attached to one noun after another, like a strip of Velcro—attached, ripped
off, attached to another, and so on, seemingly without limit. Like Velcro, however,
it’s also quite willing to adhere to any suitable medium fairly indiscriminately,
whether it was what the author intended or not. It can pick up almost any other
kind of fiber, fluff, or generic garbage. It’s up to you to keep the pieces straight.
A summary of the types of pronouns
Being a universally configurable pointer, the pronoun also highlights in the diver-
sity of its forms the various ways in which such pointing can work. Here we have
identified ten forms. I should also make it clear that I am following the ancient
practice of referring to both pronouns and pronoun-like adjectives under the one
umbrella term. If you’re working with some grammars and some textbooks, their
practice will correspond to this approach; in others, they will be separated into
two classes where relevant. It won’t really matter greatly which way you go, as
long as you grasp the functional distinction between the two kinds, and the for-
mal similarity between them. Figure 11 shows how the types of pronouns break
down—including which are substantive and which are adjectival in function.
170	 Syntactical Mechanics
All these different forms of pronouns and adjectives function similarly, in that
they stand in for nouns (substantive or adjective)—and all of them require an
antecedent, express or implied, to complete their meaning. Within that range they
have a spectacular array of abilities. In both Greek and Latin, some of these forms
intersect. The idiomatic usage of pronouns is no trifling matter, and the nonnative
speaker of almost any language is likelier to run aground with these than with
almost any other kind of word.
Personal pronouns
Personal pronouns are almost always the first things that come to mind when
people talk of pronouns, and it’s probably natural: they concern the place of the
speaker and the addressee specifically and allow many sentences that (in English,
at least) would be impossible otherwise. Personal pronouns, properly considered,
are purely nominal in function: they do not have adjectival equivalents or uses.
Pronoun type
Functions as
Noun Adjective
Personal ■ —
Demonstrative ■ ■
Possessive — ■
Reflexive ■ —
Reflexive Possessive — ■
Reciprocal ■ —
Intensive ■ —
Interrogative ■ ■
Indefinite ■ ■
Relative ■ ■
Correlative ■ ■
Fig. 11. Types of Pronouns
	 pronouns	 171
Their function is less critical in Latin and Greek, where they are dominated by
their oblique cases: in both Greek and Latin, the verb itself indicates the person
and number of the subject. In the third person, that’s sometimes sufficient; in the
first and second, it’s almost always enough. In Latin we can say:
Romam ibam.
I was going to Rome.
In the nominative, therefore, neither Latin nor Greek normally resorts to pro-
nouns of the first or second person, unless there is a particular reason to empha-
size it.
In the third person, neither Latin nor Greek actually has a normal nonreflexive
personal pronoun (equivalent to our “he,” “she,” or “it”). To provide for those
functions, the normal word to use is the demonstrative pronoun.
Demonstrative pronouns
Demonstrative pronouns (from the Latin demonstro, -are, “point out”) are some-
times called “deictic” by linguists (from the Greek δείκνυμι, which also means
“point out”). Whichever term one prefers, they are among the most flexible of
pronouns—sometimes maddeningly so. They slide very freely from the substantive
to the adjective form and back again, as we noted above with the following pair:
Where did you get that?
Where did you get that hat?
When accompanied by a noun, the demonstrative is content to take an adjectival
role, reinforcing or specifying the noun in question, usually differentiating it from
other possible references: in the example, it would distinguish that hat (i.e., the
one I’m pointing at now) from this hat or any other hat one might be thinking
of. It will just as easily stand alone, without a noun, as long as all parties to the
conversation understand the reference. If they do not, confusion (if not hilarity)
may well ensue.
Weak demonstratives
Latin and Greek demonstratives fall into two broad classes: some we call strong,
and others we call weak, depending on the specificity with which they do their
pointing out. The strong ones are much more closely bound to place; we’ll talk
172	 Syntactical Mechanics
shortly about what that entails. The weak ones are very much like the third-person
personal pronoun in English, though they can still assume substantive or adjective
forms, as personal pronouns, properly speaking, cannot. They function, therefore,
much the way “he,” “she,” and “it” do in English, though they take their gender
from grammatical gender rather than from the actual sex of the person or thing
under discussion. (English is largely a genderless language, and so we use “he”
or “she” to refer only to male or female persons or (occasionally, but not reliably)
animals. Some English speakers will refer to a pet animal as “he” or “she,” while
others will use “it.”
The Latin weak demonstrative is is, ea, id. In the nominative case, one is
somewhat more likely to encounter it than the personal pronoun of the first or
second person, but if the subject of a given sentence is adequately understood,
it is still fairly likely to be omitted. The adjectival form is susceptible to a little
more nuance, and there seems to be no hard and fast rule about when it must
be applied, especially in the nominative. It functions adjectivally very much the
way the definite article does in English: it flags the word to which it is attached as
something that has already come up in the conversation, or else is immediately in
view of the speaker.
Is liber de re militari docet.
This/that/the book teaches about military business.
Again, in the oblique cases, and when used as a substantive, it has somewhat more
to do: it functions much as a third-person personal pronoun might, and is proba-
bly most reliably understood as being the equivalent of “he,” “she,” or “it”:
Cum Catilinae epistulas lexisset, Cicero eum denuntiavit.
When he had read Catiline’s letters, Cicero denounced him.
Valde Philippicis orationibus Ciceronis iratus, Antonius ei
nullomodo parcere voluit.
Having been greatly angered by Cicero’s Philippic orations, Antony was
not at all willing to spare him.
The Greek equivalent is not so simple: it engages the delightfully protean
word αὐτός, which is capable of being used in three distinct ways: as a substan-
tive demonstrative pronoun, as an adjective in the attributive position (nestled
between the article and the noun), and as an adjective in the predicative position
(anywhere other than the attributive position). Like the Latin weak demonstra-
tive, the last of these tends not to appear in the nominative very much, except as
	 pronouns	 173
an intensifier. A few examples will have to suffice, but they should give a sense of
how very flexible (and useful) all three of these are. Consider:
ὅτε τῷ Σωκράτῃ ἐγίγνετο υἱός, ἐπαίδευσε αὐτόν.
When a son was born to Socrates, he educated him.
Here, the demonstrative αὐτόν is being used as a simple personal pronoun—it
is the accusative direct object of ἐπαίδευσε—“educated.” Now consider this
example:
αὐτὸς ἐπαίδευσε ὁ Σωκράτης τὸν υἱόν.
Socrates himself educated his [the] son.
Here, the nominative αὐτός, standing in predicative position, is used to reinforce
the subject as an emphatic form, meaning “himself,” and hence is not here con-
sidered a demonstrative, but an intensive pronoun. These will be discussed below,
but it seems useful to see the range of the same word in action here. In attributive
position, it acquires the lexical sense of “the same”:
ὁ Σωκράτης ἐπαίδευσε τὸν αὐτὸν υἱόν.
Socrates educated the same son.
These can be combined in the same sentence to occasionally startling effect:
αὐτὸς ὁ Σωκράτης τὸν αὐτὸν υἱὸν ἐπαίδευσε.
Socrates himself educated the same son.
Only the first of these three is strictly demonstrative, but the case of αὐτός should
be sufficient to show that the boundaries between these classes of pronoun are at
least somewhat porous.
Another use for the definite article
Greek has one more effective demonstrative to conjure from its bag of tricks, and
this is its occasional use of the definite article as a kind of weak demonstrative.
Historically, this is entirely reasonable, because the definite article is apparently a
weakened demonstrative in the first place: in Homer and other very early Greek,
one can find it used as a real demonstrative.
Of all the pronouns in Greek, it is the most likely to perplex students, pre-
cisely because it crops up without warning, and it looks like something else. This
doesn’t happen with Latin at all, of course, because Latin has no article to treat
this way. In Attic and later Greek, it usually arises only in situations where the
174	 Syntactical Mechanics
author is contrasting two things. Any student of Greek will have encountered the
particles μέν and δέ (which are usually laboriously translated as “on the one hand”
and “on the other hand,” at least until the student acquires a more native feel for
the language). These two particles are typically used to set off balanced phrases,
clauses, or sentences that are opposed in some way, which accounts for the more
mechanical translation. When combined with the article alone, however, a cer-
tain transformation happens, as if by magic, and the articles begin to function as
pronouns, without ever being attached to a noun, to mean (in the singular) “the
one” and “the other,” or (in the plural) “some” and “others.” Students seeing this
for the first few (or few dozen) times will often panic, thinking that they have
somehow mislaid the noun to which the article should attach, but it’s not the case.
This is most common in Attic prose, and won’t show up in Homer or (for the most
part) dramatic Attic. For example,
τοὺς μὲν ἀπέκτεινε, τοὺς δ’ ἐξέβαλεν
Some he put to death; others he expelled.
—Xenophon, Anabasis 1.1.7
If the reference is indefinite, the indefinite pronoun τις or one of its forms may be
added for clarification:
οἱ μέν τινες αὐτοῖς πελάσαντες ταχὺ ἀπέθνῃσκον, οἱ δ᾽ ἔφευγον, οἱ
δέ τινες καὶ ἑάλωσαν αὐτῶν . . .
Some, having approached them, were killed at once, while others fled,
and some others of them were captured . . .
Xenophon, The Education of Cyrus 3.2.10
Strong demonstratives
Strong demonstratives are not, as words, any stronger than the so-called weak
demonstratives; nor are they strong in the sense that strong verbs are strong—that
is, exhibiting basic vowel changes in their stems. They are called “strong” merely
because they point out their objects with greater specificity than the weak demon-
stratives.
In English we have two demonstrative pronouns, “this” and “that.” The scope
of these can vary a good deal; “this” can refer to something in the immediate
vicinity of the speaker, but it can be within a two-foot radius of the speaker or
it can be the overall condition of the world in which the speaker finds himself or
herself. “That” is, by contrast, something separated, physically or conceptually,
	 pronouns	 175
from the speaker in some way. It can be relatively near or very far. As with almost
everything involved in language, context is the great determiner of what’s what. If
you have your index finger on a map of the Milky Way, you might say:
This star is Alpha Centauri.
Obviously Alpha Centauri itself is not terribly close to you (just as well, really);
nor is it necessarily even any closer to you than other depictions or representations
of stars on the map. The word “this” is justified chiefly because you are making
contact with the map and associating yourself with the reference.
Latin and Greek each have three pronouns that are normally considered
“strong.” In Latin they are hic, iste, and ille, normally translated as “this,” “that,”
and “that [over there].” In Greek the alignment is virtually identical: the words are
ὅδε, οὗτος, and ἐκεῖνος. For most speakers of English, the distinction between
“this” and “that” is not at all difficult to rationalize and understand. The more com-
plex nuance comes in distinguishing the two kinds of “that” or “that over there.”
Often the difference between the two is represented as one of relative proximity:
“that” referring to something not terribly far away as opposed to “that over there;
yonder.” That distinction is basically correct, but the difference between them can
probably be best understood under a rubric we don’t normally apply to pronouns
that are more or less definitionally of the third person already—namely, that of
person.
“Persons” of the strong demonstratives
As noted, the demonstrative pronouns are all functionally third-person pronouns.
While one can theoretically refer to oneself with “this,” it’s usually casual or slangy.
In P.D.Q. Bach’s immortal opera The Abduction of Figaro, Dona Donna tells her
erstwhile lover Donald Giovanni:
This is one dame you’ll never leave again.
But it’s not the norm. Usually one uses “this” to refer to something else within
reach or close to the speaker. In Greek drama, at least, forms of ὅδε can be used
similarly to refer to the speaker:
τῆσδε γε ζώσες ἔτι
This one [I] still living (genitive absolute)
(I.e., While I am yet alive)
—Sophocles, The Women of Trachis 305
176	 Syntactical Mechanics
Similarly the forms of οὗτος can be used for the second person—that is, “you”:
τίς οὑτοσί;
Who is this?
(I.e., Who are you?)
—Aristophanes, The Acharnians 1048
The interesting fact is that the three strong demonstratives exhibit a remarkable
correlation with the three grammatical persons, and keeping track of this and how
it works can help in understanding the actual domains and connotations of all
three.
Like English “this,” Latin hic and Greek ὅδε correspond to whatever is within
reach of, or in the general surroundings (perceived or conceived) of, the speaker.
These pronouns are sometimes called demonstratives of the first person. This is the
simple case, though it’s important that you remember that this doesn’t mean that
they are necessarily first-person forms. They are not.
English has only one other demonstrative pronoun, “that” (and its plural
“those”), which refers to anything that is not in the personal range or area of the
speaker. Latin and Greek, however, have two, and probably the best way to under-
stand them is to see them as representing the other two grammatical persons. Iste
in Latin and οὗτος in Greek are not merely closer to the speaker than the more
distant ille and ἐκεῖνος, but they are more closely associated with the context
or domain of the addressee. Iste refers to what is not just somewhere between
right here and away over yonder, but something that is there with you. Both are
sometimes referred to in grammar texts as demonstratives of the second person.
This conveys an important idea, but again it must be emphasized that they are not
actually second-person forms; they are still third. That is, they are not referring to
the addressee in any respect other than localization.
Latin ille and Greek ἐκεῖνος, finally, are really “over there”—away from both
the speaker and the addressee. They designate a separate and more objectively
remote space. Sometimes (unsurprisingly at this point) these pronouns are
referred to as demonstratives of the third person. This has nothing to do with their
being third-person pronouns as such—though they are nevertheless.
One conundrum this distribution helps to explain is the fact that Greek οὗτος
and (especially) Latin iste often have a pejorative sense. I would suggest that iste
is in fact a fairly morally neutral word in and of itself; it takes on a contemptuous
tone chiefly when referring to a person. Imaginatively reconstructing the kind of
situation in which this comes into play, however, should not be difficult. If I am
talking to you about someone else who is far off, referring to him or her using the
	 pronouns	 177
third person in your presence has no negative connotations. But if I begin talking
about someone who is with you—someone either intentionally in your company,
or at least in your immediate vicinity (close enough that he or she can hear the
conversation)—while all the time referring to him or her in the third person, as if
talking around but not to him or her, that inevitably seems rude or contemptuous.
I suspect most, if not all, such pejorative or contemptuous usages of the word
come from this perspective.
Cicero uses iste to refer to Catiline in his speeches to the Senate, but when he
does so, he is not addressing Catiline. When he is addressing Catiline, he says:
Quam diu etiam furor iste tuus nos eludet?
How long will that frenzy of yours escape our notice?
—Cicero, Against Catiline 1.1
The use of iste here, I would argue, does not particularly indicate that Cicero has
contempt for Catiline (though he does): it’s because it’s referring to that furor with
or in the vicinity of Catiline, to whom he is speaking. Later in the same passage,
Cicero does indeed refer to Catiline himself as iste—and that arguably is pejora-
tive, because he is talking about Catiline, although he is present to the rest of the
Senate.
In Greek, the picture is similar, but somewhat more complicated, and capable
of greater nuance. Normally ὅδε will refer to someone immediately present and
significantly highlighted; οὗτος refers to someone either not so immediately pres-
ent or someone less important than the person denoted by ὅδε. The arrival of a
new character or speaker in Attic drama is normally announced with ὅδε. The full
range of possibilities here is beyond the scope of this book, but more detail can be
extracted from Smyth §§1238ff.
Here and there in time
The two extremes of the person polarity—that is, the demonstratives of the first
and third persons—also have a sense of proximity in time. Hic in Latin normally
will refer to the thing closest to the time of speaking, and ille to the one that’s more
remote. Accordingly, if two things have been mentioned already in the discourse,
hic will normally refer to the latter—the thing that is more recent, or temporally
closer. Ille refers to the former—the one that is farther off in the past.
In Greek, these rules are a bit less reliable. Generally, ὅδε refers to what imme-
diately follows in the conversation. Most commonly, too, οὗτος will refer to what
has immediately preceded in the conversation, though it can in some situations
178	 Syntactical Mechanics
refer to something following as well. Ἐκεῖνος, however, will almost always refer to
something preceding—and if there are several things, to the more remote of them:
that is, “the former,” like Latin ille.
It’s beyond the scope here to delve into all the nuances of the demonstratives
in Greek or Latin. Smyth (§§1238–61) has considerable discussion about the vari-
ations in Greek usage in particular, which are quite complex. Sometimes demon-
stratives will be combined in quite unexpected ways, such as ὅδε ἐκεῖνος—which
may startle the novice, but is not intuitively wrong, once one sees how the whole
phrase works:
ὅδ᾽ ἐκεῖνος ἐγώ
I here [am] that one.
(I.e., I’m the one we’ve been talking about.)
—Sophocles, Oedipus at Colonus 138
Obviously this does not literally mean that I here am that one over there; what
it does mean is that the subject of discussion, hitherto treated as remote, is being
identified with the speaker. As such, it’s not far off from the English usage:
Thou speak’st aright;
I am that merry wanderer of the night.
—William Shakespeare, A Midsummer Night’s Dream 2.1.43
Possessive pronouns
The possessive pronoun or adjective is purely adjectival in its basic form, but (like
most adjectives) it can be substantivized. The English examples are “my,” “our,”
“your,” “his,” “her,” “its,” and “their.” In Greek and Latin they are well-behaved
adjectives of a fairly standard form, derived from the personal pronoun, though
sometimes their morphology varies. In any case, they naturally assume the gen-
der, case, and number of the noun to which they are attached, whether that noun
is explicit or not (in the case of substantivization). They can sometimes create
confusion for English speakers, since, because they agree with the nouns they
modify, they do not necessarily take the gender, case, or number of the person or
thing doing the possessing (unlike the genitive eius of the weak demonstrative). A
handful of examples will suffice to convey the general idea. Thus:
	 pronouns	 179
Haec ornamenta sunt mea.
These are my jewels; these jewels are mine.
—Valerius Maximus 4.4
When substantivized, they can refer to the relevant things already under
discussion: when the context has not been specified, usually the reference is to
people. Hence:
Pauci de nostris cadunt.
A few of/from our [number, people] fall. (historical present:
understand “fell”)
—Caesar, Gallic War 1.15
This latter usage sometimes produces confusion among beginning students, but
it seldom offers any real conceptual difficulty when the context and meaning are
understood.
Possession is often left unexpressed in both Latin and Greek, when the context
leaves no real doubt about the referent. Any idiomatic understanding of
Socrates filios edocuit.
Σωκράτης τοὺς υἱοὺς ἐπαίδευσε.
Socrates taught the sons.
would imply that the sons Socrates taught were his own. This is true in the case
of almost all relational terms. If Socrates were teaching someone else’s sons, that
would require specific mention.
In Latin, when possession does need to be made explicit, however, there is
a choice to make. If the possessor is the subject of the sentence (or, sometimes,
just of the clause that contains it), one will normally use the reflexive possessive
adjective, discussed below, which exists in all three persons.
Where the possessor is someone other than the subject, however, the situa-
tion becomes a little more complicated. For the first or second person, we will
still use the possessive adjective, which looks exactly like the reflexive posses-
sive adjective. One wouldn’t use the genitive of the personal pronoun, as does
sometimes happen in Greek or (irregularly) in English. A native speaker of Latin
would doubtless have understood such a solecism—there’s really no other way to
construe it—but it would probably sound as bizarre to his or her ears as “me’s hat”
or “that hat is of me” would to a native English-speaker, as a way to convey the idea
“my hat” or “that hat is mine.”
180	 Syntactical Mechanics
For the third person, however, there are no nonreflexive possessive adjectives
available. (This is probably to be expected, since the possessive adjectives mirror
thepersonalpronouns,andtherearenothird-personformsofthoseeither.)When
dealing with the third person, therefore, Latin normally resorts to the genitive of
the weak demonstrative is, ea, id, which, as was discussed above, serves as the
third-person personal pronoun—hence eius (all genders in the singular), eorum
(masculine or neuter plural), or earum (feminine plural) serves for all practical
purposes as the nonreflexive third-person possessive adjective.
The possessive adjective/pronoun in Greek functions similarly, though there
are somewhat more possibilities for irregularity. In a practical sense, it’s much
like Latin, since only forms for the first and second persons, corresponding to
the personal pronouns of the first and second persons, are in common usage.
(Historically, this is not true: there was a third-person possessive pronoun ὅς, ἥ,
ὅν, which appears in Homer, but not in Attic prose; the plural version, σφέτερος,
-α, -ον, does survive into Attic, however.) Where Greek differs most sharply from
Latin, however, is in allowing the use of the genitive of the personal pronoun as
a kind of substitute for the possessive pronoun, even where that form would be
perfectly comfortable. Semantically, the two are virtually identical; syntactically,
however, one is a substantive, and the other is an adjective. In the third-person
singular, the only nonreflexive option in Attic Greek is to use the relevant genitive
of αὐτός—αὐτοῦ (masculine and neuter) or αὐτῆς (feminine) for the singular;
αὐτῶν (all genders) is used in Attic at least as frequently as σφέτερος, -α, -ον for
the plural.
Accordingly one can have
ὁ ἐμὸς ξῖφος
my sword
or
ὁ ἐμοῦ ξῖφος
[the] of me [masc.] sword
(I.e., my sword [if the speaker is a man])
or
ὁ ἐμῆς ξίφος
[the] of me [fem.] sword
(I.e., my sword [if the speaker is a woman])
	 pronouns	 181
Reflexive personal pronouns
The idea of reflexivity changes some of the ground rules in both Greek and Latin,
as it does also to some extent in English. We are not perhaps accustomed to think
of the problem thoroughly (or clearly) as native speakers, partly because the usage
seems obvious to us, but also because we use the same form for our reflexive and
intensive pronouns (which will be discussed below). This muddies the waters
considerably even for intermediate students. If it’s any consolation, the Greeks
and especially the Romans and their successors were a little foggy on some of this
too: mismanagement of the reflexive pronouns was endemic to Late and Vulgar
Latin.
The English reflexive pronoun is “myself,” “yourself,” “himself,” “herself,” and
“itself” in the singular, and “ourselves,” “yourselves,” and “themselves” (for all
genders) in the third-person plural. (Why the forms are not “hisself” or “their-
selves” on the one hand, or “meself” or “youself” on the other, is a matter of some
historical complexity, and even native speakers of English, especially those who
have not been diligently schooled, often make mistakes with these, usually of the
form “hisself” or “theirselves.” English is a tangled historical mess of a language.)
The point of the reflexive pronoun is that it represents specifically and
exclusively the person or thing that is the subject of the sentence in some other
role or function in the sentence. It’s called “reflexive” because it “bends back”
(reflectere—the root of our word “reflect,” as well as “reflex”) on the subject. These
are special-use personal pronouns: like the other personal pronouns, they are
always substantive in sense, and never adjectival.
The chief implication of this fact is that the reflexive pronouns, though they
are present in all three persons, never occur in the nominative. This strikes some
people as arbitrary at first, but it isn’t: it’s organic to the meaning of the reflexive
pronoun, and there could never be a possible nominative use for it.
In English, therefore, we can see the subject represented reflexively with such
formulations as the following:
I hit myself with the hammer.
I gave [to] myself a present.
I am telling you about myself.
In Latin, the reflexive pronouns are in form identical to the personal pronoun in
the first and second persons throughout, and it’s probably of purely academic
interest to distinguish the two. We say that they’re reflexive pronouns if they
refer to the subject, and normal (nonreflexive) personal pronouns if they don’t.
182	 Syntactical Mechanics
It’s really only in the third person that they show up with distinctively different
forms, which are based on the s- root. In a characteristic burst of Roman linguistic
economy, the plural and singular forms are identical, too; this never creates any
ambiguity, because the number of the subject is already established by and in the
subject. Between the collapse of both numbers into one, and the elimination of
the nominative as logically impossible, we are left with only four forms: sui, sibi,
se, and se. The last two of those are the same in form as well, though in any given
situation it will be either accusative or ablative.
Part of the glory of the Latin reflexive is that it is different from any other
pronouns in form. Strictly, it should refer back only to the subject of the sentence,
though in some cases we find that an author—even a “good” classical author—will
lose track of the subject and the main clause, and accordingly drop in a sibi or a
se that refers to the subject of a subordinate clause. One can cluck and fret about
such things, but they accord with and express the author’s understanding of what
is really dominating the sentence: when this happens, we can assume that he has
come to regard this secondary subject as the main focus of his attention.
The Greek reflexive pronouns are more tangled. They are formed by fusing the
stem of the personal pronoun with the relevant (but again only oblique) forms of
αὐτός. In the singular, these are normally written as one word: ἐμαυτοῦ, ἐμαυτης,
and so on; σεαυτοῦ, σεαυτῆς, and so on; ἑαυτοῦ, ἑαυτῆς, and so on. In the plural,
for no particular reason that I have been able to determine, the parts are normally
kept separate: ἡμῶν αὐτῶν, ἡμῖν αὐτοῖς, and so on; ὑμῶν αὐτῶν, ὑμῖν αὐτοῖς, and
so on. Lest it all be too predictable, Greek does allow for two different variations
in the third-person plural: either ἑαυτῶν (in keeping with the singular) or σφῶν
αὐτῶν, ἑαυτοῖς / -αῖς, or σφίσιν αὐτοῖς / -αῖς, and so on.
Reflexive possessive adjectives
Reflexive possessive adjectives are a Latin phenomenon. Greek doesn’t have
them, and English doesn’t have them, unless one wants to argue that the appended
“own” creates a new form in sentences like this:
When he was visiting his wealthy friend, he took his own car to the
store.
Unlike the reflexive personal pronouns in the foregoing section, but like other pos-
sessive pronouns, reflexive possessive pronouns are entirely adjectival (though it
needs to be pointed out that, like any other adjective, they are capable of being
substantivized). The reflexive possessive is the same for all genders of possessor,
	 pronouns	 183
but, like any other adjective (and like the possessives discussed above), it can take
a full range of gender, number, and case endings to agree with whatever word it is
modifying (the thing possessed).
Given what has already been said about reflexive pronouns, it’s probably
unsurprising that what distinguishes the reflexive possessive pronoun is the fact
that it refers back to a possessor that is the subject of the sentence. Compare
Catullus Cornelio de poematis suis [reflexive] scripsit.
Catullus wrote to Cornelius concerning his [own; i.e., Catullus’s]
poems.
and
Catullus Calvo de poematis eius [not reflexive] scripsit.
Catullus wrote to Calvus concerning his [Calvus’s] poems.
Almost any Latin speaker of the classical era would have understood the distinc-
tion intuitively and completely. It’s worth noting that even in “good” authors,
occasionally a reflexive adjective will refer to the more prominent entity in the
sentence even if it is not the subject:
Hunc sui cives a civitate ejecerunt.
His [own] citizens threw him [Hannibal] out of the city.
—Cicero, In Defense of Sestius 68
This deviation from the standard is almost certainly aided by the fact that hunc
is particularly prominent because it’s the first word of the sentence.
Reciprocal pronouns
Latin has a reflexive possessive pronoun whereas Greek does not; Greek returns
the favor by having one of the most elegantly specialized pronoun forms out
there—namely, the reciprocal pronoun. This is a kind of permutation of the
personal pronoun, and hence it’s once again substantive rather than an adjective.
Its sense is “each other.” We can express that synthetically in English, but Greek
has a single inflected form to take care of it—namely, ἀλλήλων. When required to
convey the same sense, Latin resorts typically to the reflexive (se or sometimes
inter se), leaving some potential for confusion.
The reciprocal pronoun shares certain characteristics with the reflexive
pronoun, too. Like the reflexive, it has no nominative form—there is no rational
184	 Syntactical Mechanics
semantic situation that would require it. It is further constrained (again, on reason-
able semantic grounds) to the dual and plural numbers. One of anything cannot
do anything to each other: the idea doesn’t make sense. Here Xenophon uses the
reciprocal pronoun quite conventionally:
ὡς δ᾽ εἰδέτην ἀλλήλους ἡ γυνὴ καὶ ὁ Ἀβραδάτας, ἠσπάζοντο
ἀλλήλους . . .
When Abradatas and his wife saw one another, they embraced
each other . . .
—Xenophon, The Education of Cyrus 6.1.47
Intensive pronouns
Intensive pronouns in English are often difficult for beginning students to dis-
tinguish from the reflexive, since they take the same form—“himself,” “herself,”
“itself,” and “themselves.” Their functions are entirely distinct, but in fact there
seems to be a long heritage of confusing or conflating them in multiple lan-
guages—not just in English. In Greek, of course, since the reflexive is already
naturally a compound built with some form of αὐτός, the potential for confusion
is fairly close to the surface. In Latin, although the forms are distinct, that doesn’t
prevent them from being at least partly fused or intermixed. Especially when an
author wants to emphasize the reflexivity of the pronoun, it is not uncommon to
see seipsum, or (even more emphatic, with the infix -met-) semetipsum or the like.
These forms spread like aggressive garden weeds into the Romance languages,
yielding standard intensive forms like French même and Spanish mismo.
Arguably the intensive pronoun accomplishes no essential function in the
semantic makeup of a sentence; it adds only an emphasis (often because the iden-
tification is seen as somehow surprising or contrary to expectation). In English we
have such things as
I myself built this house.
in which “myself” merely reinforces the unexpectedness or exceptional quality of
the subject, and
I did that myself.
in which the “myself” is at least semantically part of what the sentence is trying
to say.
	 pronouns	 185
The Latin and Greek usages are more or less similar, though in Greek the use
of αὐτός (in the predicative, not the attributive position) has its own range of
nuances, some of them quite elegant in their expressive power.
Interrogative pronouns and adjectives
Interrogative pronouns and adjectives are in a way the exception to the general
rule concerning pronouns and pronominal adjectives—namely, that the referent
needs to be supplied reliably before the pronoun is used. Interrogative pronouns
are used precisely because the referent is not clear; they are seeking clarification
on this point:
Who built the house?
To whom did you give the car keys?
Both exemplify the interrogative pronoun.
Interrogatives also have both substantive and adjectival forms. One can plau-
sibly ask:
Who built this house?
in which case “who” is fully substantive. One can as easily ask:
What/which contractor built this house?
Here the “what” or “which” is modifying “contractor”—assuming that it was
a contractor rather than a butcher or a baker, but expressing the uncertainty of
the speaker about which of many possible contractors might have been involved.
As noted, the form of the word chosen may well vary between substantive and
adjective uses; we would not normally say:
What built this house?
or
Who contractor built this house?
So it is also in Latin and (less frequently) in Greek. In Latin, “who” in a substantive
sense is quis, while adjectivally it would be the interrogative adjective (adjectival
pronoun) that properly agrees with the substantive. Hence:
Quis aedificium erexit?
Who built [the] building?
186	 Syntactical Mechanics
but
Qui homo aedificium erexit?
What person built [the] building?
The form quis represents men and women indifferently; the neuter form quid is
reserved for inanimate things, even if the noun that emerges as an answer to the
question is masculine or feminine. Thus:
Quid est?
What is it?
but
Quae res est?
What thing is it?
The Latin interrogative adjective agrees, as noted, with whatever noun it is modi-
fying; its forms are identical to the forms of the relative pronoun. The two cannot
be distinguished purely by form, then, but only by context. Seldom, in a rationally
punctuated modern text, is there any likelihood of confusion between them; in
manuscripts such confusions can occasionally arise.
The Greek interrogative pronoun, on the other hand, shares its forms not with
the relative, but with the indefinite pronoun, which we will discuss below. Here
it usually is possible to distinguish the one from the other merely by appearance,
however, because the interrogative is always accented (and an acute accent never
changes to a grave, even though it would otherwise do so), while the indefinite is
enclitic, which means that it “throws” its accent back on the preceding word, and
so usually is not carrying one of its own. In some situations, because of an accu-
mulation of enclitics, the indefinite pronoun may wind up wearing a borrowed
hat, so to speak, from the word following it. Here again, context and a careful
regard for the actual meaning of the text are the solution to the problem. Because
the adjectival indefinite is virtually always attached to the end of the word it refers
to, and it agrees with it in case, number, and gender, there is fairly little chance of
real confusion.
Greek interrogative τίς is etymologically related to Latin quis, reflecting
certain sound changes in initial consonants. For the most part, the adjectival and
substantive forms are identical; hence:
τίς ἐστι;
Who is it?
	 pronouns	 187
and
τίς ἄνθρωπός ἐστι;
What person is it?
As with Latin, the adjectival form will agree with the noun it refers to, but if used
substantively it will follow the distinction between persons and things:
τί ἐστι;
What is it?
but
τίς ξῖφός ἐστι;
What sword is it?
Indefinite pronouns
The indefinite pronoun serves the function of the English indefinite article or
some other modifier like “a certain . . .” English doesn’t have such things, perhaps
because it has an indefinite article. Latin accomplishes the same thing with an
adjectival modifier (sometimes substantivized without anything to stand for it). It
is in Greek that these things truly come into their own. In Greek, the forms of the
indefinite pronoun are the same as those of the interrogative pronoun (to which
they may be causally related), except for the fact that they are enclitic. This is con-
sistent with the fact that the indefinite follows the word modified. Accordingly,
ἄνθρωπός τις
is equivalent to Latin
homo quidam
or English
a certain person
There’s not really a lot more to be said about indefinite pronouns: they are fairly
tame, and act in highly predictable ways. They seldom connect to anything else
other than insofar as they specify that the word modified (which may be in the
nominative or any other case) is not someone we should know already, or some-
thing that has appeared hitherto in the discourse.
188	 Syntactical Mechanics
Relative pronouns
Relative pronouns are the pivot on which the relative clause attaches to its parent.
We have already discussed relative clauses above: they are adjectival in function,
and the relative pronoun represents in the relative clause (usually as a substantive)
the word that is its antecedent.
As noted earlier, there has been a great deal too much bother made concern-
ing the relative pronoun: its apparently divided loyalties are not really divided at
all. For all that, the range of its possibilities is exceptionally large: the adjectival
relative clause is a powerhouse of signification.
Correlative pronouns
Smyth’s Greek Grammar (§340) has an especially illuminating chart showing how
many of the Greek pronouns (pronominal adjectives, in particular) are correlated;
once you see the chart, it’s fairly clear how they relate to one another. There’s
probably not a lot of use in reproducing it here or belaboring its contents other
than to note that Greek correlative pronouns tend to be related to one another
very systematically, and to share a certain parallelism of form. There are Latin
correlatives too; one can probably pick up most of what needs to be known about
them by looking at Allen and Greenough §152, which presents a very similar chart
for Latin.
	 189
Chapter 11
Other Little Words
The little bits and pieces that grease the wheels
There are a number of other little words of one sort or another that add flavor
and direction to sentences. They fall broadly into two classes: those that are
somehow relevant to the “flow of traffic” in a clause or sentence, though without
much intrinsic meaning of their own—syntactic glue, as I called them above—and
others that are instead added to a sentence to provide it with flavor and nuances
of meaning, but which have relatively little control function. Those familiar with
computer programming may find it useful to consider that the former class com-
prises chiefly words marking program control (“if,” “then,” “while,” etc.), while
the latter class contains mostly things that would never appear in a programming
language at all. Most of the semantic meaning of a sentence is conveyed by the
more specific words: nouns (variables and constants) and verbs (function and
procedure calls), with the frugal admixture of various modifiers.
Articles
The article is a curious little word, since it’s not strictly necessary in all places.
English has an article—two of them, in fact: the definite article “the” (cognate
with German der, die, das) and the indefinite article “a” or “an” (semantically and
syntactically equivalent, but adjusted for euphony before vowels and consonants).
Articles are only ever used to modify nouns (either substantives or substantivized
adjectives). They are in a broader sense members of the elusive class of quantifi-
ers—indeed, both “a” and “an” are derived from Old English ān, meaning “one”—
cognate with German ein.
The difference between the definite and the indefinite article has to do with the
cloudy domain of discourse management: we tend to use “the” when we expect
that the hearer will know what is meant by the noun in question, and “a” when we
190	 Syntactical Mechanics
do not, or when distinguishing a particular referent is of no importance. Often the
presumption of knowledge is based on the fact that we have talked about the thing
earlier in the same conversation—in such cases, “the” (without any further modi-
fiers) is used to flag the noun as “the one we were talking about just now”—but it
can also be used when the referent is presumed to be clear. We do not have to have
been talking about the president of the United States or the Federal Reserve Board
to use “the” with either: it’s presumed that the hearer knows which president of
the United States or which Federal Reserve Board we’re talking about. Articles
can apply to either proper names or improper ones. We do not, however, tend
to use the article with personal names unless we intend to make a distinction
among several persons with the same name. If we are eager to distinguish John
Adams the second president from another John Adams who runs an automobile
repair shop in Poughkeepsie, we might say, “the John Adams who was president.”
Otherwise, we use personal names without articles, and the same goes for names
of companies or other organizations like Apple or Microsoft. Where the name is
specifically descriptive, however, and we want to make sure that it is clear that we
are referring to the one that bears the description as a name, we will still use “the,”
as in “the United Nations” and so on. The nuances of managing articles comes as
second nature to native speakers, but can cause no end of difficulty to those first
learning the language.
Greek has a very powerful definite article, ὁ, ἡ, τό, but no indefinite article.
The sense of the indefinite article can be rendered by adding the indefinite pro-
noun τις, discussed in the previous chapter. The definite article, however, is used
very extensively, and (unlike English) Greek will normally use it with a proper
name, again to verify that the person under discussion is the one you were think-
ing about already. Hence Greek will refer to
ὁ Σωκράτης
Socrates
or
τὸ καλόν
the Good (either the ideal of goodness or [all] that which is good)
Latin has no article, and seems to get along just fine without it, but it is worth
noting that all the modern languages that have derived from Latin have picked
up an article along the way. That article, moreover, is generally an outgrowth of a
form of the (adjectival) demonstrative pronoun, and that makes a certain amount
of sense, too. This derivation has occurred at various times throughout history
in different languages. The Greek article has a particularly strong demonstrative
	 other little words	 191
force in Homeric Greek, and it is still in classical times capable (as noted in the
discussion of pronouns) of functioning as a kind of weak demonstrative, given
only a little support with things like the particles μέν and δέ. The Greek article also
serves as a semantic delimiter, defining the space in which attributive, as opposed
to predicative, adjectives may be placed: they always fall between the article and
the noun. Hence:
ὁ ἀγαθὸς ἄνθρωπος
the good person
but
ἀγαθὸς ὁ ἄνθρωπος.
The person is good.
When this becomes unmanageable, or simply for the sake of variation, an attribu-
tive adjective can also follow a repetition of the article after the noun in question:
ὁ ἄνθρωπος ὁ ἀγαθός
the good person
It may be useful to think of the attributive position as a kind of “pocket” into which
to put attributive adjectives; those adjectives that don’t fall in the space so defined
are different in intention and meaning.
The articles in the Romance languages similarly all appear to have derived—far
later than the origin of the Greek article—from a truncation of various forms of ille,
illa, illud, which are, as we discussed, the most remote of the strong demonstrative
pronouns (the so-called demonstrative of the third person); this gives us Spanish
el, la; French le, la; Italian il, la, and so on. Most of the Romance languages have sys-
tematically banished the neuter gender, leaving only the masculine and feminine.
Particles
Most languages have words that could be considered particles, some of which
are interjections; the rampant but nonspecific modern use of “like” might well
be considered a particle of sorts. The word “to” used to form infinitives in English
is generally considered a particle, as is “not,” which is a negation particle. Some
scholars cast a wider net, and consider a number of adverbs to be particles; this
may or may not be useful, but I doubt that it’s particularly critical one way or the
other to the student of classical languages.
192	 Syntactical Mechanics
We chiefly talk about particles with respect to Greek—they are words that
provide a certain flavor to sentences, and for the most part they would be hard
to reduce to any single category, or to classify as any other normal part of speech.
A professor I had in graduate school preferred to translate the emphatic partici-
ple δή by thumping the table at the appropriate point; what he did when he was
without a table, I don’t recall. Others, like μέν and δέ (often learned in the first
weeks of Greek as “on the one hand” and “on the other hand,” and unlearned over
subsequent years), show (and convey to the hearer) the speaker’s sense of the bal-
ance or opposition of the members of a sentence. Their actual denotation is slight,
and their connotation, while powerful, is nebulous, and varies enormously with
context. The particle ἄν has yet to be translated successfully, but it fundamentally
changes any clause it appears in. It provides a note of unreality or contingency to
its clause, such that it is used to mark the apodosis (the “then” portion, or the main
clause) of a contrary-to-fact condition. All in all, there is no single simple way of
translating or categorizing them all, and even the term “particle” here is a bit of
a dodge: it refers to these little words as a kind of catchall term. Most of them in
reality have a quasi-adverbial force, but the range of that force is enormous. As
mentioned in chapter 1, particles are the subject of an entire learned book by J. D.
Denniston called The Greek Particles, and it’s curiously entertaining reading if you
are of a suitable disposition.
There are particles in virtually all languages; we can talk about the particles of
Latin or English or any other language as well.
Prepositions
We talked above about how the preposition is ultimately an ossified sort of adverb,
and how some (but not all) prepositions can still be used in an adverbial sense with-
out an object. One might reasonably suppose, therefore, that prepositional phrases
are always adverbial in their import. Usually, they are. They can, however, occur
in places we would normally allocate to adjectives, with a clearly adjectival force:
τεκμήριον μὲν τῆς πρὸς ὑμᾶς εὐνοίας, σημεῖον δὲ τῆς πρὸς
Ἱππόνικον συνηθείας . . .
in proof of the toward-you goodwill and as a sign of the toward-
Hipponicus friendship . . .
(I.e., in proof of my goodwill toward you and in token of my
friendship for Hipponicus . . . )
—Isocrates, To Demonicus 2
	 other little words	 193
By extension of that same principle, prepositions can be substantivized, if appear-
ing with an article, and can stand for a subject or an object:
τοὺς ὑπὸ χθονός
those under the ground
—Sophocles, Antigone 65
The other fact to remember about prepositions is that they take shape with respect
to objects, and those objects are normally in a particular case. All that has been
discussed under the heading of nouns above. There’s fairly little to say about them
beyond this that will be particularly surprising or illuminating, however.
Conjunctions
Conjunctions fall into two general families—the coordinating conjunctions and
the subordinating conjunctions. Coordinating conjunctions are those that attach
two things at the same level of discourse. Subordinating conjunctions are those
that attach dependent pieces—usually dependent clauses—to the clauses on
which they depend.
Coordinating conjunctions in English are fairly few: we have “and” and “but,”
along with “for,” “or,” “nor,” “yet,” and “so”—the last of these being somewhat
more adverbial than some would prefer for their conjunctions. “And” and “but”
are the real critical players: the former introduces one thing that is parallel to
another or in the same sequence, while the latter introduces something that is
understood to be contrary or concessive in force. We can use them to join nouns,
adjectives, verbs, or adverbs, or to connect whole clauses:
The shoes and the hat did not go together. (nouns)
The team was small but powerful. (adjectives)
The young girl skipped and danced down the street. (verbs)
Houdini escaped quickly but not easily. (adverbs)
We went to the store and we bought a fossilized goose. (clauses)
Tom ate fish, but Bill preferred steak. (clauses)
Subordinating conjunctions, on the other hand, are the fasteners that make
possible any kind of complex sentence: the subordinating conjunction typically
indicates what kind of clause is coming, and hence it tends to appear first in the
clause, or very near the beginning. The range of subordinating conjunctions in
any language is, for the same reason, significantly larger than that of coordinating
194	 Syntactical Mechanics
conjunctions, but it’s still a very small set. “When,” “until,” “though,” “if,” and the
like all fall under this broad heading, and the kinds of clauses they introduce have
been discussed above under adverbial clauses.
Interjections
Interjections are effectively syntactically null—they are cut off from any explicit
connection to the clauses in which they appear (if they do indeed appear in
clauses; one can reasonably analyze them as standing outside the clausal structure
altogether). Alternatively (and consistent with the name “interjection”), one can
see them as something “thrown in” rather than properly attached to the clauses in
which they appear. In the sentence
Wow, you sure don’t look as if you had just run a ten-mile race.
it is really impossible to construe the “Wow” as a part of either the subject or the
predicate: it simply “floats” over the sentence, much as certain particles do, to
lend flavor and connotative authority to whatever is being said. There’s not much
more to say about the syntax of interjections than that.
	 195
Chapter 12
Concluding Remarks
Cautions, provisos, and reservations
Most of what has been presented here has been given as if it were absolute fact.
Some of it is; but we need to bear in mind that language is at all times and places a
plastic,evolvingthing.Almostnoruleorsetofrulesonecanmakeaboutgrammar,
however simple or complex, will describe all validly grammatical utterances even
within a given language. This conundrum is susceptible to exhaustive proof for at
least mathematical systems of signification, but extending it from there to natural
language is problematic and difficult; still, it seems likely (and informally validated
by experience) that something like the same holds true of human language.
Even the most constrained and limited human language, in both complexity
andcapacityfornuance,dwarfsanypurelylogicalsystem.Onceonehasaccounted
for the normal interplay of parts of speech, cases, phrases, and clauses, one can
still fold into the mix such wild cards as irony and tonality, all of which complicate
the matter further by several orders of magnitude. The universal human capacity
for articulate speech is vast and prodigal; our propensity for complicating it and
playing with it is even more so. It is probably not rigorously demonstrable, but
virtually certain nonetheless, that every adult speaker of any language has, not
once but many times, given voice to thoughts and phrases that are unique in the
history of mankind. No one has ever said them before, and no one will ever say
them again. We nevertheless appear to be at no risk of running out of new and
(often) interesting things to say.
That being the case, therefore, it should not surprise anyone that no grammar
of human language ever has been or ever will be complete. Even within a small
community of speakers the permutations are too great, and the semantic need
to express new ideas flexibly and precisely usually trumps any merely syntactical
objections. Within a large community of speakers, and especially where those
communities exist for a long time—as has been the case with Latin, Greek, and
196	 Syntactical Mechanics
English—the picture is further complicated by accidental or deliberate modifi-
cation, change, and the human inclination to create and push back the bound-
aries of what is possible. Yesterday’s solecism becomes today’s standard diction.
Shakespeare’s adroit puns become everyone’s standard quotations—and, more
importantly, the foundation for further permutations.
One way of dealing with this is merely to admit defeat and move on to
something else. But since such limitations will eventually hem in every other
field of human endeavor as well, such concession must ultimately reduce us by
destroying our aspirations. The human response—improbable, heroic, and ulti-
mately doomed though it might be—is to struggle with the incomprehensible,
and to battle against ignorance in others and especially in ourselves. Sometimes
we make progress. Even if we don’t win outright, we can arrive at a little better
understanding of the nature of the problem, and we can learn a lot of fragmentary
truths along the way.
Accordingly, what is in this book should be taken not as a set of hard and fast
rules, but as a cautious (and sometimes perhaps incautious) sketch of the outline
of how Greek and Latin work, with reference to English. It attempts to explain
some of the dynamic relationships between them, and to allow a student, by
comparing differences in approach and execution, to keep the facts at least largely
straight so that he or she can move on to the more critical task of grappling with
what people have had to say—in all the various subject areas they have addressed
throughout the generations. This work is a jumping-off point, therefore: a point
of entry into the larger literature of language scholarship and analysis. There is a
huge body of such scholarship. I have attempted in the bibliography to suggest a
few places in which you might like to pursue what is already known and what has
been discovered on the subject. It is the merest sampling.
Ultimately, however, it is all just a means to a larger end. The responsibility for
making sense of any text you confront does not reside with the historical commu-
nity of grammarians and logicians of language; it rests with you. To approach any
piece of writing with the respect it deserves, and the humility that befits any of us,
requires that we seek to see both what is in the text and what is beyond it. We can
examine modes of expression and diction, grammatical structures, and interesting
case usage, but we also need to see through them to what the author was ultimately
striving to express. To read a text is not merely to confront a collection of markings
on a page, a range of syntactic constructions, or even a set of semantic signifiers;
it is ultimately to encounter the person who wrote it. That person may be alive or
may be dead, and so (in some sense) beyond the influence of our admiration or
	 concluding remarks	 197
contempt, but if one undertakes that task seriously, merest courtesy must dictate
that we do so with a sense of the gravity entailed in the encounter with anyone:
that we not write anyone off without due consideration and without reserving
at least the possibility that there is something more there than we initially might
have suspected. An open reader cannot and must not ever completely close a text:
There is always the possibility that it will have something further to say to us.
	 199
Annotated Bibliography
Resources for further study
English grammar
Burchfield, R. W. Fowler’s Modern English Usage. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2004.
This latest edition of a classic by H. W. Fowler (first published in 1926) has been
widely praised and widely reviled, but it has a place in the library of anyone
interested in grammar and usage in English. Fowler was a witty writer, and
many of his articles are both entertaining and informative.
Curme, George O. A Grammar of the English Language. Old Lyme, Conn.:
Verbatim Books, 1978.
Though out of print, this was one of the first attempts at an exhaustive linguist’s
grammar of the English language. It is in two volumes and runs to well over a
thousand pages.
Greenbaum, Sidney. Oxford English Grammar. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
1996.
A standard and moderately prescriptive outline of basic English grammar. Its
treatment of such things as the proper scope for the subjunctive is still rather
incomplete, but it forms a reasonable foundation for almost any other gram-
matical investigation.
Quirk, Randolph, Sidney Greenbaum, Geoffrey Leech, and Jan Svartvik. A
Comprehensive Grammar of the English Language. 2nd rev. ed. London:
Longman, 1985.
This massive volume runs to nearly 1,800 pages and is probably the logical
successor to Curme.
200	 Annotated Bibliography
Warriner, John E. English Grammar and Composition, Complete Course. New
York: Harcourt Brace, 1988.
Now out of print, this has remained for several generations the handbook of
grammatical reference. It is neither the most complete nor the most accessible,
but it is widely distributed, and copies are available used for a reasonable price.
Latin grammar
Most of the books listed here are reprints of editions about a century old, and
hence in the public domain. A variety of publishers have made modifications and
revisions; some have done thorough overhauls, while others have made photo-re-
productions of the original texts.
Allen, Joseph Henry, and James Bradstreet Greenough. Allen and Greenough’s
New Latin Grammar. Edited by G. L. Kittredge, A. A. Howard, Benj. L.
D’Ooge, and Anne Mahoney. Newburyport, Mass.: Focus Publishing, 2001.
There are now many editions of this grammar available, as the original is now
in the public domain, and any of them will provide virtually the same mate-
rial. This work is widely regarded as the best standard reference grammar of
the Latin language published in English. Professional scholars will still have
recourse to the larger German volumes on Latin grammar, such as Leumann,
Hofmann, and Szantyr, Lateinische Grammatik, but this grammar is solid.
The version cited here has been cleaned up and rationalized recently by Anne
Mahoney.
Bennett, Charles E., and Anne Mahoney. New Latin Grammar. Newburyport,
Mass.: Focus Publishing, 2007.
Another standard and accessible English-language grammar of Latin.
Gildersleeve, Basil Lanneau, and Gonzales Lodge. Gildersleeve’s Latin Grammar.
Boston: D. C. Heath, 1894.
Another favorite intermediate-level reference grammar of the Latin language.
Grandgent, Charles Hall. An Introduction to Vulgar Latin. Boston: Heath, 1907.
Not the most recent but probably the most accessible discussion of the special
subfield of Vulgar Latin (that is, the Latin of the vulgus—the common people)
from antiquity onward. Still one of the better works available in English on
the subject, though many of Grandgent’s conclusions have been surpassed by
Väänänen.
	 Annotated Bibliography	 201
Hale, William Gardner, and Carl Darling Buck. A Latin Grammar. Boston:
Athenaeum Press, 1903.
Buck was one of the first great Indo-Europeanists, and his grammar shows the
influence of this connection.
Leumann, Manu, Friedrich Stolz, Hermann Bengtson, Johann Baptist
Hofmann, Walter Otto, Iwan von Müller, and Anton Szantyr. Lateinische
Grammatik. Munich: Beck, 1977.
As near as there is to a single comprehensive repository of Latin grammar.
Written in German, containing abundant examples and exceptions of almost
every variety. Probably not the best source for a normative grasp of Latin gram-
mar, but the ultimate reference for documentation of a given form or usage. In
three volumes, covering accidence, syntax, and other miscellany.
Mantello, Frank Anthony Carl, and A. G. Rigg. Medieval Latin: An Introduction
and Bibliographical Guide. Washington, D.C.: Catholic University of
America Press, 1996.
Not by any means a mere grammar, but a compendium of the various cross-
roads and background materials necessary for the reading of Medieval Latin,
including grammatical and usage issues. An essential tool for anyone tackling
the materials of Medieval Latin.
Väänänen, Veikko. Introduction au Latin Vulgaire. Paris: Klincksieck, 1967.
Probably the best currently available source on Vulgar Latin for those who
can read French. Definitely a substantial improvement on Grandgent’s intro-
duction.
Woodcock, E. C. A New Latin Syntax. London: Methuen, 1959. Reprint,
Wauconda, Ill.: Bolchazy-Carducci, 2005.
A revolutionary and unique look at Latin syntax from the ground up, seeing
the whole as an integral system with an eye toward the historical linguistic
considerations that lie behind each of the major systems and constructions it
discusses. Indispensable for those seriously pursuing the kinds of questions this
book attempts to raise.
202	 Annotated Bibliography
Greek grammar
Buck, Carl Darling. Introduction to the Study of the Greek Dialects. Boston: Ginn,
1910.
One of the relatively few unified discussions of the Greek dialects widely
available in English. Contains introduction, grammatical notes, inscriptions,
and text.
Denniston, John Dewar. The Greek Particles. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
Second edition, 1954.
A spectacularly detailed and thorough discussion of the particles of the Greek
language by one of the greatest grammarians of the twentieth century.
Goodwin, William Watson. Greek Grammar. Revised by Charles Burton Gulick.
Boston: Ginn, ca. 1930.
A very solid discussion of Greek grammar from one of the better minds in the
field, though perhaps not as accessible or as detailed as Smyth’s.
———. Syntax of the Moods and Tenses of the Greek Verb. Boston: Ginn, 1897.
Goodwin, the author of the foregoing general grammar, here digs into the
strange and wonderful mechanics of the Greek verb in special detail. The work
has in some respects been surpassed in the intervening century, but Goodwin’s
overall view of the field is hard to equal; it contains a good deal that is valuable
to the advanced student. It is not, however, particularly accessible: it is made
up of gritty atomic detail from the very start.
Otto, Walter, Hermann Bengtson, Iwan von Müller, and Eduard Schwyzer.
Griechische Grammatik. Munich: Beck, 1978.
A multivolume grammar of the Greek language in German, equivalent in scope
to Leumann, Hofmann, and Szantyr’s Lateinische Grammatik. The ultimate ref-
erence for Greek grammar, arguably, though like the Latin volumes, not imme-
diately accessible even to the student with solid German skills, and inclined to
support a lot of exceptions to the general rules.
Robertson, Archibald T. A Grammar of the Greek New Testament in the Light of
Historical Research. New York: Hodder & Stoughton, 1914.
A substantial and meticulous investigation of the language specifically of the
New Testament.
	 Annotated Bibliography	 203
Smyth, Herbert Weir. Greek Grammar. Revised by Gordon M. Messing.
Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1956.
The leading grammar of the classical Greek language in English, this remains a
monumental and exceedingly detailed account of the subject.
Indo-European and comparative studies
The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language. 4th ed. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2006.
This is a solid dictionary in its own right, but it is particularly interesting for
the student of Latin and Greek because it contains a very valuable appendix of
Indo-European roots, which discusses how those are manifested in a variety
of different Indo-European languages. The appendix has been published sep-
arately as well.
Buck, Carl Darling. A Comparative Grammar of Greek and Latin. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, 1969.
Concentrating more on morphology than syntax, nevertheless a very valuable
contribution to the study of comparative grammar.
———. A Dictionary of Selected Synonyms in the Principal Indo-European
Languages. 1949. Reprint, Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1988.
Lexical comparisons across a variety of languages concentrating chiefly on
morphology.
Moore, R. W. Comparative Greek and Latin Syntax. London: G. Bell and Sons,
1934.
A remarkably penetrating study of the syntactical commonalities and differ-
ences between Greek and Latin, well ahead of its time.
Sihler, Andrew L. New Comparative Grammar of Greek and Latin. Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 1995.
Much more modern than Buck’s comparative grammar, this book contains
much of the latest research in the subject. Like Buck, however, it is primarily
morphological in focus.
	 205
ablative, 126; absent from Greek, 127;
absolute, in Latin, 151; cause, in Latin,
148; compared with accusative, 126;
personal agent, in Latin, 150; physical
referent, 127; respect, in Latin, 147–48
absolute construction, 151; ambiguity in,
152; separative, 152–53
absolute versus relative time, in Greek
tenses, 102
abstract nouns, in Classical and Medieval
Latin, 158
accent change, in Greek, 87
accusative, 129–30; adverbial, in Greek,
149; direct object, 138; goal of motion,
129; limit of space or time, 130;
respect, in Greek, 148
accusative-infinitive indirect statement:
in Greek, 77; in Latin, 72
active voice, 113–14
actual result, in Greek, 36
adjectival clause, 29–30, 54–62
adjective, 8, 119; demonstrative, 11, 171–
78; interrogative, 10, 185; possessive,
178; pronoun, 10; substantivized, 8
advantage or disadvantage, dative, 146
adverb, 14; function of, 14, 16; limiting
scope of predication, 33; in sentence,
15; variety of uses, 15
adverbial accusative, in Greek, 149
adverbial clause, 29, 30, 32–53; answering
question, 33; types of, 32
adverbial relative clause, 49
agency, with passive verbs, 115–16, 150
agent, dative, 146
antecedent of pronoun, 10
aorist, 97; aspect, in Latin, 98; gnomic,
102; versus perfect aspect, in Latin,
98, 100; and perfect fusion, in Latin,
98; as snapshot, 101; system, 93
apodosis, 40; variation in, 47
Aristotle, logical writings of, 20
article, 11, 189; defining attributive
position, in Greek, 191; definite, in
English, 12, 189; as demonstrative
pronoun, in Greek, 173–74; in Greek,
12, 190, 191; indefinite, in English 12;
lacking, in Latin, 190; as pronoun, in
Greek, 13; in Romance languages, 191
articular infinitive, in Greek, 13, 112, 113,
156
aspect, 37, 91–95; adverbial marking, 97;
in English, 92; relating events, 92, 97–
98; simple, 92; and tense, 91–102; and
tense, in Greek moods and verbals,
101–102
attributive position, in Greek, 12
Index
206	 index
case, 119, 122–23, 124 (fig.);
development, 130–31; in English,
123–24; in English, Latin, and Proto-
Indo-European, 124–30; reduction, in
Latin and Greek, 124
causal constructions, 148–49
causation, 33–34
Centum languages, 84, 85 (fig.); 90
Cicero, 98–99
Classical Greek versus Koine Greek, 107
clause, 24; adverbial, 32–53; causal, 33–
34; comparative, 50–51; concessive,
48; conditional, 37- 44; dependent,
25–26; exclamatory, 52–53;
independent, 25–26; manner, 49;
place, 49; purpose, 33–35; result, 33,
35; temporal, 36–40; types, 24
cognate accusative, 150
collective nouns, number, 121
command, indirect. See indirect
command
comparative clause, 50–51
comparison, 136; and condition, 50;
Greek, genitive, 136; Latin, ablative,
136; quantity or degree, 51; separative
concept, 136
complex sentence, 27–28
compound sentence, 27
conative imperfect, 95
concessive clause, 48
condition, 37–47; clause, 37, 40–44;
contrary-to-fact, 41–44; future, in
Latin and Greek, 44–46; general versus
particular, 41; Greek, 46 (fig.); Latin,
47 (fig.); and temporal clause, related
to, 40; variation, in apodosis, 47
conditional relative clause, 60–61
conditional sentence, 37, 47
conjunction, 17, 193–94
connecting relative pronoun, 61–62
contents, genitive, 144
contingency, 36; in future and
subjunctive, 105; and time, 3
contrary-to-fact condition, 41–44
copula, 14, 22; implied, 23
correlative pronouns, 188
dative, 128–29; advantage or
disadvantage, 146; agent, 146–47;
ethical, 146; indirect object, 138;
lexical variations, 138; possession,
142; respect, 146
definite article, in English, 12, 189
demonstrative adjective and pronoun, 11,
171–78; article as, in Greek, 173–74;
persons, 175–77; strong, 174–78;
weak, 171–74
dependent clause, 25–26
deponent verbs, 118
determinacy, in temporal clause, 37
direct object, 138; outgrowth of motion,
129
divided whole. See partitive
dual, 90–91, 120–21
emphatic verbs, in English, 93
enduring consequence, of perfect, 96
epithet, 8
ethical dative, 146
exclamatory clause and phrase, 52–53
existential use of state-of-being verb, 14,
23–24
extent of space, accusative, 134
extent of time, accusative, 135
finite moods, 103
future active participle, purpose of, 164
future condition, particularity of, 44. See
also under condition
future participle, 164
future passive participle, in Latin, 164
future tense, 94
	 index	 207
gender, 56–57, 119–20; and exceptions to
general rules, 120
genitive, 126; absolute, in Greek, 151,
126; adjectival sense, 126; agent, in
Greek, 150; cause, in Greek, 149;
contents, 144; material, 144; measure,
136, 144–45; objective, 143; origin,
127; partitive, 142, 144; personal
pronoun for possession, in Greek,
180; possession, 126, 142; possessive
adjectives, 126; price or value, 144–45;
Proto-Indo-European, 126; quality,
144; source, in Greek, 146; subjective,
143–44
gerund, 111–13, 154, 157; confused with
participle, in English, 157, 161; and
infinitive, in English and Latin, 112,
158; lacking, in Greek, 111–12; as
subject or object, 111
gerundive, 164
gnomic aorist, 102
grammar, incompleteness of, 195
Great Vowel Shift, English, 86
hypercorrect case use, 123
imperative, 107–108; third-person, in
Greek and Latin, 107–108
imperfect, as motion picture, 101
imperfect system, 93–94
imperfect tense, 94; conative, 95;
inceptive (inchoative), 94
impersonal passive subject noun clause,
in Latin, 64–65
inceptive (inchoative) imperfect, 94
inchoative (inceptive) imperfect, 94
indefinite article, 12
independent clause, 25–26
indicative, 103
indirect command, 66; in English, 69; in
Greek, 81; in Latin, 74–75
indirect discourse, 65–83; conceptual
overview, 81–83; in English, 66–69;
in Greek, 75–81; in Latin, 69–75;
lexical variation in, 80; and participles,
in Greek, 168. See also indirect
statement; indirect question; indirect
command
indirect object, 138
indirect question, 66; in English, 68–69;
in Greek, 80; in Latin, 66, 73–74
indirect statement, 66, 76 (fig.); and
accusative-infinitive form, in Latin,
72; in English, 66–68; in Greek, 76–
79; in Latin, 70–73; as noun clause or
phrase, 63–64; and retained indicative,
in Greek, 77
Indo-European languages, 84–88
infinitive, 109–10, 154–57; articular,
in Greek, 13, 112–13, 156;
complementary, 110; in English, 155;
as noun, 155; phrases, 63; purpose of,
in Latin, 105; objects, 110; tenses, 110
instrument, 137
instrumental-associative, Proto-Indo-
European, 127–28
instrumental respect constructions, 147
intensive pronoun, 184
interjection, 17–18, 194
internal accusative. See cognate
accusative
interrogative adjective and pronoun, 10,
185; in English, 185–86; in Greek,
186–87
intransitive verbs, 113
irreal condition. See contrary-to-fact
condition
iterative imperfect, 94
jussive constructions, 107
language change, 86
locative, 130
logic, modal, 42
208	 index
manner, 137; clause, 49
mass nouns: poetic use, 121–22; number,
121
material, genitive, 144
means, or instrument, 137
measure, genitive, 144–45
middle voice, 113, 117–18
mood, in verbs, 89, 103–109
motion, with prepositions, in Latin, 141
natural result, in Greek, 36
nominative, 125
noun, 4–9, 119–53; common versus
proper, 4–5; concrete versus abstract,
6–7; marking, 119; substantive versus
adjective, 7–8
noun clause, 29, 63–83; as appositive,
65; fearing or striving, 64–65;
pseudoclauses, 63; subject or object,
29, 63
number, 119–22; in mass or collective
nouns, 121; in verbs, 89–90
object: direct, 138; indirect, 138; of
preposition, 139–42; of verb, 114
objective genitive, 143–44
obligation and necessity, Latin gerundive,
164
optative mood, in Greek, 106–107
oratio obliqua. See indirect discourse
parenthetical relative clause. See
relative clause, restrictive versus
nonrestrictive
participial indirect statement, in Greek,
77
participial phrase, in Greek: semantic
burden, 165; resembling clause, 63
participle, 113, 154, 158–68; dangling,
in English, 162–63; in English, 159;
in Greek, 165–68; in Latin, 163–64;
misidentified, in English, 160
particle, 4, 18, 191–92
partitive genitive, 142, 144–45
parts of sentence, 19–31; alternative
terminology, 19
parts of speech, 3 (fig.); eight, 3;
functions, 3–4
passive voice, 113–16; agent with, 150
pejorative demonstrative, 177
perfect aspect, 95–96, 98
perfect passive verbs, formation and
meaning, 100
perfect system, 93, 95
perfect tenses, 91
person, definition of, 90; in verbs, 89–90
personal agent, 150
personal pronoun, 170–71; genitive,
possession, in Greek, 180; oblique
cases of, 171; third person, lacking, in
Greek and Latin, 171
personal source, 134
persons, of demonstrative pronoun,
175–77
phrases, distinguished from clauses, 31
place constructions, 49; from which, 132;
to which, 133; where, 133
plural, 120
possession, 142–43
possessive pronoun and adjective, 178–
80; substantivized, 179
predicate, 19–22
predicate nominative, implicit, 125
predication: action versus state-of-being,
22; philosophical terms, 20–21
preposition, 16, 192; in Greek, 142 (fig.);
in Latin, 140 (fig.); object, cases, 139–
41; origins and functions, as adverb,
16–17, 139
prepositional phrase, in Greek, and
adjectival force, 192
present tense, 94
preterite, 97
price or value, genitive, 144–45
	 index	 209
progressive verbs, in English, 93
prohibition, 108; in Greek, 109; with nolo,
cave, and ne, in Latin, 108–109
pronoun, 9, 169–88; adjectival, 10, 169;
antecedent, 10, 169; demonstrative,
11, 171–78; functions of, 170 (fig.);
idiomatic difficulties with, 170;
indefinite, 187; intensive, 184;
interrogative, 10, 185–87; personal,
170–71; possessive, 178; reference,
9, 11; reflexive personal, 181–82;
relative, 56, 188; relative, connecting,
61–62; relative, postponement, 56;
in relative clause, 55; substantive, 10;
types of, 169
protasis, 40
Proto-Indo-European, 84; cases, in Greek
and Latin, 124–27
purpose, clause of, 33–35
quality, genitive, 137, 144–45; with
adjective, 145
quantitative metathesis, in Greek, 87
question, indirect. See indirect question
reciprocal pronoun, in Greek, 183–84
reduction of cases, in Latin and Greek,
124
reflexive personal pronoun, 181; in
English, 181; in Greek, 182; in Latin,
181
reflexive possessive pronoun/adjective, in
Latin, 179, 182–83
relative clause, 29–30, 54–62; adjectival,
54; antecedent, 54; conditional, 60–
61; in English, 30–31; placement of,
55; restrictive versus nonrestrictive,
57–59; simplifying, 56
relative pronoun, 188; connecting,
61–62; function, 56; marking, 56;
postponement, 56. See also relative
clause
respect, 147–48
result: actual versus natural, in Greek, 36,
106; clause, 33–35; compared with
purpose, 35
Satem languages, 84–90
second person demonstrative pronoun,
176
semantics, as foundation of syntax, 196
sentence: complex, 27–28; compound,
27; parts of, 19–31; simple, 27; types
of, 26
sentence adverb, 15
separation and distance, 132
sequence of moods, in Greek, 106
sequence of tenses, in Latin, 100–106;
and ambiguity of (Latin) perfect, 100
simple aspect, 92
simple sentence, 27
singular, 120
sound changes, 86
source, 146
space and time, 131, 132 (fig.);
constructions, 134; within which, 134
state-of-being verb, existential, 23
statement, indirect. See indirect statement
striving, clauses of, 64
subject, 19
subject accusative, omitted in Greek, 79
subjective genitive, 143–144
subject noun clause, with impersonal
passive, 64–65
subjunctive, 104–106; contrary-to-
fact condition, in English, 104;
independent, 104; lack of future in,
104; result clause, 105
subordinate clauses, as parts of speech, 29
substantive, 119; clause, 29, 63–83;
fearing or striving, 64–65
substantivized adjective, 8
syntactical comparisons, 88
syntax, comparative approach, 88
210	 index
temporal clause, 36–38; determinate
versus indeterminate, 37; future, 39;
general versus particular, 38–40; in
Greek, 40
tense, 37; and aspect, 89–102; and aspect
in Indo-European languages, 93 (fig.);
and contrary-to-fact condition, in
Greek, 102; and indirect statement, in
English, 66–67; varying with moods,
in Greek, 101; in verbs, 91
time, 36–37; when, 135; within which,
134–36
transitivity, 113–14; as late development,
114, 129
verb, 13, 89–118; action and state-
of-being, 13–14, 21; marking, 89;
state-of-being, existential, 23; state-of-
being, implied, 20; systems, in Latin
and Greek, 93. See also aspect; tense;
voice
verbal noun and adjective, 14, 154–67;
treated as moods, 109–13
Vergil, Aeneid, 99–100
vocative, 130
voice, 89, 113–18
word order and case, in English, 123
