13
anxious
1, 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, 12, 13
confident
2, 4, 7, 8, 11, 14
interpretation (not to be taken seriously!)
We all experience anxiety every once in a while. It is a normal response to a
stressful event or a perceived threat. Anxiety can range from feeling uncomfort-
able and worried to serious moments of panic. Anxiety is an unpleasant feeling of
fear or impending disaster and reflects your thoughts and reactions of your body
when you are presented with an event or situation that you feel you will not be
able to manage or deal with successfully. Although a minimum of concern is a
normal response to a stressful situation, when its level becomes too high, we are
put in difficulty, therefore losing the power to handle the stressful situation or
threat. Sometimes we literally freeze, we try to avoid a situation or even react
abnormally to the fear.
What causes anxiety? A number of factors can contribute to the development
of anxious thoughts and behaviors. Some personality types are more at risk than
others. The most shy, with low self-esteem, have higher chances of incurring the
anxiety traps or styles of thought. Firstly, research has shown that some people
with a family history of anxiety are more likely (though not always) to experience
anxiety. Secondly, some experiences in life can make people more susceptible to
anxiety. Events such as family disintegration, abuse, bullying at school, and con-
flict in the workplace can be stressors. Another factor is a tendency to perfection-
ism, if you tend to want to have a constant control over your emotions, you are
more likely to develop forms of stress and anxiety.
Clearly, the more ‘yes’ answers you gave the ‘anxious’ statements, the more
anxious you are.
14
5  
Are You a Morning or an Evening Person?
Glossary
diurnal - adj. occurring every day
yuk - n. a sound/exclamation made to express disgust
continental breakfast - n. in British English used to specify a (simple) breakfast
that is typical of Europe as opposed to the characteristic ‘full English breakfast’
yummy - adj. extremely pleasing to the sense of taste
mellow - adj. relaxed, easygoing, genial
croupier - n. someone who works at a gaming table in a casino
casino - n. place for gambling and entertainment
trendy - adj. in accord with the latest fashion
stall-holder - n. someone with a vending point at a market
lounge - n. a sitting room in a house
navy blue - adj color typical used on military ships or naval uniforms
pastel - adj. delicate and pale in color
primrose - n. a yellow flower
brass band - n. orchestra that plays brass instruments (i.e. wind instruments that
consist of a brass tube)
pour your heart out - exp. tell someone your deepest feelings in a prolonged spurt
lend a sympathetic ear  - exp. listen to someone with understanding and
compassion
resort - n. frequently visited tourist location
sun-drenched - adj. covered with sunlight
night owl - n. a person who likes to be active late at night
shun - v. deliberately avoid
hell - n. a cause of difficulty and suffering
peak - v. to reach the highest point; attain maximum intensity
early bird - n. someone who gets up very early in the morning
night shift - n. working period that takes place at night typically in manual jobs but
also in hospitals
15
5  Are You a Morning or an Evening Person?
Discover your ‘diurnal dynamics’ by answering these questions.
	 1.	 What is the first thing you do in the morning?
a	 Check to see if you are still alive.
b	Make a cup of tea or coffee.
c	 Jump out of bed and do your exercises.
	 2.	 When you are staying at a hotel, what do you order for breakfast?
a	Breakfast – yuk! You never touch it.
b	A continental breakfast.
c	 All the yummy things you don’t have time to cook at home.
	 3.	 Imagine you are going for a job interview, when do you think you would you
make your best impression?
a	 After a sauna and a visit to the hairdresser.
b	Just after lunch when your prospective boss is hopefully mellow.
c	 At the first appointment of the day.
	 4.	 Providing the pay was the same, which would you apply for as a part-time job?
a	A croupier in a casino.
b	A receptionist.
c	A trendy market stall-holder.
	 5.	 When do you usually go jogging or take other forms of exercise?
a	 After tea in the evening.
b	Lunchtime or afternoon.
c	 Before work in the morning.
	 6.	 When you are looking for a new house or flat, in which direction do you prefer
the house to face?
a	West.
b	North or south.
c	East.
	 7.	 What colors best suit a lounge?
a	 Deep, dark dramatic tones, such as wine red or navy blue.
b	Practical, natural colors, such as green and brown.
c	 Light and bright pastel shades, such as primrose yellow.
	 8.	 Which type of music do you prefer?
a	 Cool jazz.
b	Classical symphonies.
c	 Brass band marches.
16
	 9.	 If your best friend wants to pour his/her heart out, when should they phone you
for a good reception?
a	 At the end of the day when you could lend a sympathetic ear.
b	Anytime – that’s what friends are for.
c	 Before you leave for work.
	
10.	 When you fly abroad on holiday, what is your favorite view on landing?
a	The resort ablaze with lights.
b	Looking down on a sun-drenched beach.
c	 A panoramic view of the rising sun.
score
Give yourself 3 points for each ‘a’ answer, 2 points for each ‘b’, and 1 for each
‘c’. This should give you a total score of something between 10 and 30.
25-30 points
You are in the night-owl category, shunning the daylight and coming into your
own after sundown. This is no problem if you work in the evenings, but it must be
hell if you have to start work at 9.0 am. Remember that these daily cycles are fixed
by habit as much as by nature, so you can, if you wish, adjust your lifestyle so as
to peak earlier.
15-24 points
You may be gratified to know that you are normal – capable of adjusting fairly
easily either to a daytime or night-time existence.You know that truly restful sleep
is obtained with good food, exercise and fresh air, not stimulants or sleeping pills.
10-19 points
You are the original early-bird, which is ideal provided that you do not work a
night shift. More likely you have discovered the secret of good living.
17
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
A. Wallwork, Test Your Personality, Easy English!,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67226-7_2
Chapter 2
Risks and Sensations
6  Do You Like Taking Risks?
Glossary
exotic - adj. characteristic of another (apparently more exciting) place or part of the
world
starter - n. food or drink to stimulate the appetite usually served before a meal or as
the first course
fruit machine - n. mechanical device for gambling, typically found in bars, cinemas
fun fair - n. amusement park
roundabouts, carousels - n. rides typically chosen by young children when at a fun fair
blast - v. play music at a very high volume
drawer - n. a box-like container in a piece of furniture
fret - v. worry
bonds, stocks, shares - n. forms of financial investment
start up - n. very new enterprise/company
fire practice - n. the act of simulating and preparing for a possible fire
fraud - n. deliberate dishonest behavior intended to gain an advantage
threat - n. a warning that something unpleasant is imminent
hazard n. potential danger
pollution - n. contamination with harmful substances as a consequence of human
activities
skydiving - n. performing acrobatics in free fall
edge - n. limit
well-rehearsed - adj. practiced many times in order to be ready for something
18
6  Do You Like Taking Risks?
Task 1: Decide which of the two options you would normally follow in your own
life.
Task 2: For each trio of options, decide which would be the typical risk-taker (mark
these with an R) response, and which would be typically answered by someone who
is very cautious (C).
	 1.	 You go to a new restaurant. Which would you choose:
a	 Anything that sounds foreign and exotic.
b	 A new starter, but the main dish would be something I’ve had before.
c	 Something you recognize and know you will like.
	2.	You are playing on a fruit machine and finish all the coins you had in your
pocket. Do you:
a	 Change a big note convinced that you’ll hit the jackpot.
b	Stop.
c	 Borrow a couple of coins off a friend.
	3.	At a fun fair which rides do you like to take the most?
a	 Roundabouts and carousels.
b	When I am strapped in, taken high up in the air, and then fall at the speed of
sound to the ground.
c	 A water splash.
	 4.	 You are at home playing your favorite music. Do you:
a	 Have the volume as high as it will go and blast it out through your biggest
speakers.
b	Keep it quiet - you don’t want to disturb the neighbors.
c	 Close all the windows and doors, and play it loud.
	 5.	 You need to find a guarantee form for a product that has just broken. You:
a	 Find it immediately - it’s in the drawer with all your other guarantees.
b	Would never find it - who keeps guarantees anyway?
c	 Find it eventually, after a bit of fretting.
	 6.	 You win the national lottery and decide to invest a substantial part of your win-
nings. In what?
a	Government bonds.
b	Stocks and shares.
c	 A new social media start-up.
19
	 7.	 The fire alarm goes off at work. Would you:
a	 Immediately go out into the street.
b	 Go into the next room and see what’s going on there.
c	 Carry on - it’ll just be the usual fire practice.
	 8.	 You want to buy something on an online site you’ve never used before. What do
you do:
a	 Write down your numbers both from the front and back of the card - what’s
the problem? Credit card companies always refund you in the case of fraud.
b	 Before providing your credit card details, you do a web search to see if any
customers have had any problems with this retailer.
c	 Pay using PayPal or some other accredited payment service provider.
	 9.	 You are about to go on holiday for a week.You have to leave in 5 minutes to be
at the airport on time. However your washing machine still has 15 minutes of
its cycle left. Do you:
a	 Turn it off and leave for the airport.
b	 Wait for it to finish its cycle.
c	 Leave it on and go the airport.
	
10.	 You are in your car in a hurry to get back home to watch a football match on
TV. You could save ten minutes by driving up a street the wrong way. The street
is 50 m long. Do you:
a	 Drive the wrong way up the one-way street.
b	 Take the longer route.
c	 Reverse up the one-way straight.
20
interpretation
In the Middle Ages the concept of risk was always associated with external causes,
natural events like a storm, a flood or an epidemic, rather than to a situation deliber-
ately created by man. Today, the term risk is generally used exclusively with refer-
ence to negative or undesirable outcomes. It thus indicates threats, hazards, dangers
or damage. Technically, the term ‘risk’ refers to situations in which there is a decision
whose consequences depend on the outcome of future events with known probabili-
ties. However in most cases our knowledge of these probabilities is not so exact and
often decisions are made in conditions of uncertainty or ignorance.
In terms of health, risk can be a danger to your health due to external factors,
for example, pollution, industrial waste, toxic additives in food; over which we
have a very limited control. Then there are risks that are the result of certain life-
styles or harmful behaviors such as smoking, poor eating habits, lack of physical
exercise etc.
Research into the extreme sport of skydiving, found that “risk-taking” was a
challenge that an individual sets him/herself in order to assess their ability to deal
with a risky situation. This type of activity is defined as ‘edgework’ i.e. a behavior
at the edge of what is normally acceptable, and thus a risky or radical behavior.
risk taker (r)
1) a 2) a 3) b 4) a 5) b 6) c 7) c 8) a 9) b 10) a
If you have four or more risk-taker answers you are clearly running your life on
the edge. You are probably a sensation seeker (see next quiz).
cautious (c)
1) c 2) b 3) a 4) b 5) a 6) a 7) a 8) c 9) a 10) b
If you have four or more cautious answers you are living very far from the edge
and feel safe only when your feet are firmly on the ground and you are following
well-rehearsed routines. You can double check your levels of cautiousness by
doing the test entitled ‘How cautious are you?’
normal
1) b 2) c 3) c 4) c 5) c 6) b 7) b 8) b 9) c 10) c
If you have answered with only b’s and c’s, then your attitude to taking risks falls
within the norm.
21
7  Are You a Sensation Seeker?
Glossary
murder - n. premeditated killing of a human being by another human being
bullfight - n. spectacle where a matador baits and (usually) kills a bull in an arena
before many spectators
argument - n. heated discussion (i.e. where there is strong disagreement)
prescription - n. written instructions from a physician or dentist to a pharmacist
concerning the form and dosage of a drug
just for the hell of it - exp. just for fun
yearn - v. desire, want badly
threshold - n. the starting point for a new state or experience (in this specific case,
level of tolerance)
22
7  Are You a Sensation Seeker?
Task 1: Reply ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to the statements below.
Task 2: Decide to which statements a typical sensation-seeking person would reply
‘yes’.
	 1.	 I like to read newspaper accounts of murder and other forms of violence.
	 2.	 I would like to see a bullfight in Spain.
	 3.	 I like to follow instructions and to do what is expected of me.
	 4.	 I am easily bored and need plenty of excitement, stimulation and fun.
	 5.	 I would much prefer listening to hard rock and metal than classical music.
	 6.	 I can still be friendly with people who do things that I consider to be wrong.
	 7.	 I tend to act impulsively.
	 8.	 I sometimes do dangerous things just for the hell of it.
	 9.	 I think people should be quick to adapt to new technologies.
	
10.	 I would prefer to go on an organized tour in a foreign country than to organize
my own itineraries.
	
11.	I like to have structured well-defined tasks as an integral part of my daily
routine.
	
12.	 I like to dress to catch attention.
	
13.	 I enjoy having an argument even if the topic is not very important.
	
14.	 I only take medicine upon prescription from my doctor.
	
15.	 I hate having to wait for people.
	
16.	 I don’t like planning in advance - it takes away all the fun.
	
17.	 I like to be at the center of attention.
	
18.	 I would prefer to drive 10 km under a speed limit, than 10 km over a speed
limit.
23
sensation seeker
A sensation seeker would typically answer ‘yes’ to the following: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17.
interpretation
sensation seeker
If you answered yes to eight or more of the ‘sensation-seeking’ questions. Then
you match the following profile:
A sensation seeker refers to a type of personality in constant search for new
and intense sensations, and who is willing to take risks to get them. If you are a
sensation seeker then your prime interest is not in the risk itself, but is a conse-
quence of the fact that the strongest feelings can be experienced, often, only in
extreme situations. You have a very low tolerance to boredom and predictability.
Taking drugs, jumping out of a plane with a parachute, racing in very fast cars,
mountain climbing and other extreme sports are all behaviors that provide the
sensations that a sensation seeker yearns for. But it comes at the cost of putting
your own safety at risk as well as that of the people around you.
routine seeker
If you answered yes to less than three of the ‘sensation-seeking’ questions. Then
you match the following profile:
You are clearly not a sensation seeker. You are not even attracted by activities
of high emotional intensity but which are low-risk, such as listening to certain
types of music, watching erotic or horror movies, trips to exotic countries, and
parties without using drugs. Your threshold for boredom is much higher than a
sensation seeker’s.You are not always looking for the latest innovations, the latest
release of intoxicating experience, or the best way to reduce the level of
­
predictability in your life.
24
8  How Cautious Are You?
Glossary
gossip - n. light informal (but potentially malicious) conversation
gut instinct - exp. what your brain spontaneously tells you is the right thing to do
cast one’s vote - v. officially express your preference for a particular candidate or
option
entail - v. involve
wise - adj. having good judgment or common sense in practical matters often (but
not necessarily) acquired in later life
sensible - adj. showing reason or sound judgment
reckless - adj. marked by defiant disregard for danger or consequences
25
8  How Cautious Are You?
	 1.	 If I have an opportunity to get into a concert without paying and be sure I am
not seen, I would
a	 probably do it.
b	certainly not do it.
	 2.	 If I am about make a long journey
a	 I always check the overall safety (brakes, lights, oil, petrol) of my car.
b	I just check that I have enough petrol.
	3.	For me gossip is something
a	 I never indulge in - you never know whether it might get back to the person
you’re gossiping about.
b	harmless and fun.
	 4.	 In order to get out of something that I don’t want to do
a	 I always explain why I don’t want to it - it’s always best to tell the truth.
b	I will sometimes pretend that I am ill.
	 5.	 When crossing a road with other people
a	 I am normally the first to cross.
b	I look very carefully both ways before crossing.
	 6.	 When preparing for my summer holidays
a	 I tend to wait till the last minute before deciding where to go.
b	I plan everything at least three months in advance.
	 7.	 Before voting in a general election
a	 I thoroughly investigate the qualifications of all the candidates.
b	I use gut instinct on the day of the election to help me cast my vote.
	 8.	 Regarding my personal finances
a	 I would never get into more debt than I could handle.
b	 I have no issue with buying things on credit even if it means I might accumu-
late quite a bit of debt.
	 9.	 When I need some important document
a	 it usually takes me a while before I can locate it.
b	I keep all my important papers in a special cabinet where I can easily locate
them.
	
10.	 Locking myself out of my car and house is
a	 not something I have ever experienced
b	is not unusual for me.
26
score
Score one point for each of the following answers:
1) b 2) a 3) a 4) a 5) b 6) b 7) a) 8) a 9) b 10) a
8-10 points
Caution is often associated with excessive concern about what is apparently right
and wrong, and if you scored highly on this test you are focusing too much on this
factor. In reality, being cautious does not mean avoiding danger or difficult deci-
sions, or always acting in self-preservation. On the contrary, doing the right thing
usually entails courage.
5-7 points
Caution is a virtue often misunderstood and underestimated. Being cautious
means making wise decisions based on what you see before you. If you scored
between 5-7 points, then your approach is both normal and reasonable. You tend
to act in a way that avoids unnecessary risks  - and this is both practical and
sensible.
2-4 points
You frequently fail to demonstrate proper concern about the possible bad results
of your actions. You risk getting into major trouble.
0-2 points
You appear to be unconcerned about the consequences of your actions. You are
very reckless.
27
9  How Spontaneous Are You?
Glossary
buzzing - adj. noisy like the sound of a bee
spike - n. sudden peak (typically found in graphs, but in this specific case used in a
metaphorical sense)
prank - n. joke
long for - v. desire strongly or persistently
on the spur of the moment - exp.- spontaneously
charades - n. game in which participants act out a phrase for others to guess
dare - n. a challenge to do something dangerous
on the fly - exp. while already in progress, spontaneously
open-minded - adj. ready to entertain new ideas
stick to details - v. never deviate from the details
idealistic  - adj. believing in some (possibly unattainable) morals, values and
principles
28
9  How Spontaneous Are You?
Task 1: Decide whether you agree or disagree with the statements below.
Task 2: Re-read the statements and decide which ones indicate a person who tends
NOT to be spontaneous in their behavior.
	 1.	 You are rarely the center of attention in a group of people.
	 2.	 Your mind is always buzzing with unexplored ideas and plans.
	3.	Your work style is a random collection of energy spikes rather than being
methodical and organized.
	 4.	 You generally do and say things quickly without stopping to think.
	 5.	 You hate being with a crowd who play jokes on one another.
	 6.	 You like doing things in which you have to act quickly.
	 7.	 You like going out a lot.
	 8.	 You like playing pranks on others.
	 9.	 You would rather improvise than spend time coming up with a detailed plan.
	
10.	 You like talking to people so much that you never miss a chance of talking to a
stranger.
	11.	 You often long for excitement.
	
12.	 You often do things on the spur of the moment.
	
13.	 You prefer to have few but special friends.
	
14.	 You suddenly feel shy when you want to talk to an attractive stranger.
	
15.	 You stop and think things over before doing anything.
	
16.	 You are good at games like charades or doing improvisational acting.
	
17.	 You rely more on your experience than your imagination.
	
18.	 You would do almost anything for a dare.
	
19.	 You like buying presents for friends and family on the spot.
	
20.	 You are able to make decisions on the fly.
interpretation
If you answered ‘yes’ to questions 1, 5, 13, 14, 15 and 17, and predominantly ‘no’
to the other questions, then you are someone who likes to keep their feet well
planted on the ground and whose head never ventures towards the clouds.
If you answered ‘no’ to questions 1, 5, 13, 14, 15 and 17, and predominantly
‘yes’ to the other questions, then you are clearly getting a lot of fun out of life.
You love to be creative. You like lively and open-minded people. Your sense of
humor, enthusiasm and energy inspire those around you. You communicate well
and enjoy entertaining others.
However there are potential downsides to your personality:
•	 you can be too impulsive
•	 you tend to need constant recognition
•	 you do not like working alone
•	 you have problems with routine
•	 you are not great when having to stick to details
•	 you are probably a little too idealistic
29
10  
What Is Your Attitude Towards Driving and Drivers?
Glossary
hitch - v. travel by getting a free ride from someone
convenient - adj. suitable
discreet - adj. unobtrusive
dexterity - n. very good at using one’s hands
top of the range - exp. the best in its category
hurl abuse - v. utter a rude expression intended to offend
threaten - v. express an intention that is likely to go against the wishes of the person
receiving the threat
adverse - adj. contrary to your interests
30
10  
What Is Your Attitude Towards Driving and Drivers?
	
1.	 If your car breaks down do you
	a	 look in the instruction book
	
b	 flag someone down
	c	 hitch to the nearest garage
	
d	 call a taxi
	
2.	 You are a passenger in a car which is being driven too fast by someone you don’t
know very well. You begin to get nervous and frightened
	a	 say nothing and pray silently
	
b	 wait for a convenient moment to start talking about accidents and bad driving
	c	 make discreet little signs indicating that you are frightened
	
d	 tell him/her openly that you are scared
	
3.	 You are driving alone in your car and get stuck in a slow-moving traffic jam.
How do you usually react?
	a	 I forget the traffic jam and stare dreamily at anything that looks interesting
	
b	 I try not to get agitated
	c	 I tap the wheel in irritation
	
d	 I get angry and hoot the horn and shout out of the window
	
4.	 You are walking down a street and see the driver of a car with one hand on a
mobile phone and the other holding a cigarette.
	a	 You admire the driver’s dexterity.
	
b	You think “Either the phone or the cigarette, but not both  - that’s a bit
dangerous.”
	c	 You shout abuse.
	
d	 You shout abuse, make a note of their number plate and immediately contact
the police.
	
5.	 Your best friend buys a new car - a top of the range Mercedes. How do you feel?
	a	 Very happy for your friend.
	
b	 You can’t wait to ask him/her to have a test drive.
	c	 You are jealous that he/she can afford such a car.
	
d	 You focus on the fuel consumption and how environmentally-unfriendly it is
to have large cars.
	
6.	 You are outside the home of someone who has been hosting a dinner party. You
notice someone getting into their car. You know that he/she has had at least one
bottle of wine to drink.
	a	 You too have had about a bottle and are easily capable of driving.
	
b	 You hope that the person drives carefully.
	c	 You go up to the driver and suggest he/she comes in your car or gets a taxi.
	d	 You hurl abuse at the driver and threaten to call the police if they drive away.
31
score
predominantly a’s
You are probably a relaxed driver, a relaxed passenger, and positive-­
thinking and
relaxed person. However, you should probably think about taking your responsi-
bilities more seriously.
predominantly b’s
You are a practical person. Whenever you are in a particular situation you gener-
ally react in a sensible way, and sometimes see an opportunity in a potentially
adverse situation.
predominantly c’s
You are not particularly tolerant of cars, their owners, and the way people drive in
general.
predominantly d’s
You have strong reactions to most situations. You believe you have a clear sense
of what is right and wrong, and you do not tolerate what you consider to be bad
drivers.
33
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
A. Wallwork, Test Your Personality, Easy English!,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67226-7_3
Chapter 3
Confidence Levels
In this chapter the glossaries of the five tests are all listed here.
11  Are You Assertive?
tip - n. money given for services rendered (e.g. in a restaurant or bar)
create a fuss - v. create a state of agitation or an angry disturbance
be trampled on - v. let yourself be treated with contempt
short notice - n. without advance notification
get away with - v. manage to do something without any of the foreseen negative
consequences
trait - n. a distinguishing feature of your personal nature
bulldozing adj. aggressive
12  
How Easily Do You Get Embarrassed?
white lie - n. a statement (considered of no great importance) that deviates from the truth
stare - v. . watch/observe in a fixed manner
flustered - adj. thrown into a state of agitated confusion
sympathy - n. understanding, affinity
struggle - v. find difficulty
to be kidding - v. joke
34
13  
How Strong Is Your Personality?
cut off - v. end
horn - n. a noise made by the driver of an automobile to give warning
cut corners - exp. not complete tasks as they should be
tactfully - adv. showing diplomacy
pushy - adj. rather aggressive
submissive - adj. willing to submit to orders or wishes of others
14  How Confident Are You?
captivated - adj. filled with wonder and delight
topless beach - noun. a sandy area near the sea where women can relax without the
top half of a bikini
overly - adv. to an excessive degree
demure - adj. affectedly modest or shy, especially in a playful or provocative way
deluded - adj. believing that you have a particular quality when in fact you probably
don’t
a turn off - n. something unattractive
a turn on - n. something attractive
15  
How Much Do You Like To Be in the Spotlight?
procrastinate - v. postpone doing what you should be doing
rely - v. have confidence or faith in
drama - n. a highly (and probably unnecessarily) emotional episode
proffer - v. present for acceptance or rejection
35
11  Are You Assertive?
	
1.	 In a restaurant you feel the quality of the food and the service has been poor.
Which of the following actions do you take?
	a.	 Tip the waiter the standard amount and complain to your friends afterwards.
	
b.	Decide not to leave a tip and tell the management just why you are
dissatisfied.
	
2.	 A relative phones you at work when you are very busy and don’t want to talk. Do
you
	
a.	 Talk with the relative and feel stressed and impatient.
	
b.	 Tell the relative you really are too busy and don’t want to talk.
	
3.	 You are in a hurry and you see a long queue at a supermarket checkout counter.
Do you:
	
a.	 Wait in the queue and get increasingly irritated about the lack of help.
	
b.	 Insist that the manager open another checkout.
	
4.	 You feel that you deserve a promotion or a salary raise. Do you:
	
a.	 Wait until your boss decides to do something about it.
	
b.	 Discuss the matter urgently with your boss.
	
5.	You are asked to make the arrangements for an office party when you would
rather not. Do you:
	
a.	 Go ahead and do it because you don’t like to create a fuss.
	
b.	 Say you are not interested in doing it and refuse.
	
6.	 Your boss asks you to stay late, and you have a very important personal appoint-
ment. Do you:
	
a.	 Cancel your appointment and work late to please your boss.
	
b.	Tell your boss that your appointment is important and that working late at
such short notice is impossible.
	
7.	 You are about to speak, and someone interrupts you. Do you:
	
a.	 Let it pass and allow the other person to speak for you.
	
b.	 Announce that you have just been interrupted, and that you’d prefer to speak
for yourself.
36
score
mostly A’s
You tend to let people get away with things and have it their own way rather than
insisting on your own rights. If you answered a) to all seven questions then you
are risking having your life trampled on. You need to adopt some strategies typi-
cally used by assertive people. First you need to set boundaries as to what you
consider is and is not acceptable. If someone crosses that ‘acceptability line’ then
you should intervene. Secondly, you need to command the respect of those around
you. Speak up, let yourself be heard when someone appears to be totally disre-
garding your needs.
mostly b’s
While putting your needs first may be a healthy trait some of the time, if you
answered b) to most of the questions, you are not merely being assertive but
instead have a bulldozing approach.You need to aim to be somewhere in between.
Being assertive is about respecting both yourself and the other person but without
compromising the other person’s rights as a human being. While you should aim
to build strong relationships with others, you also need to hear (and try to under-
stand) what others have to say even if you do not necessarily agree with them.
37
12  
How Easily Do You Get Embarrassed?
Look at the following situations and decide whether you would find the situation
embarrassing or not. Answer ‘yes’ or ‘no’.
	 1.	 Someone tells a joke that I don’t understand.
	 2.	 I spill a drink over the carpet at someone’s house.
	 3.	 I arrive at a party wearing the wrong type of clothes.
	 4.	 Someone asks me a personal question that I would prefer not to answer.
	 5.	 I am in class and want to ask the teacher a question.
	 6.	 I forget my partner’s birthday.
	 7.	 I don’t like the food that your host has just put in front of me.
	 8.	 I break something in a shop.
	 9.	 The meal I have just eaten in a restaurant was very poor. I feel the need to com-
plain to the manager.
	
10.	 Two people in the corner of the room are clearly talking about me,
	
11.	 Someone makes a nice compliment about the way I look.
	
12.	 My partner starts shouting at me in the street.
	
13.	 I have to give a presentation to a group of 10 people.
	
14.	 Out with friends, I realise I don’t have enough money to pay for the meal we’ve
just had.
	
15.	 Someone has posted a ridiculous photo of me on Facebook.
	
16.	 I am caught out telling a white lie.
	
17.	 I arrive late for an appointment with people I don’t know.
	
18.	 I get lost in my car and my passenger is someone who I am trying to impress.
	
19.	 I say something that is immediately proved wrong by someone else present.
	
20.	 I lose my temper with a friend.
38
score
Give yourself one point for every ‘yes’ answer.
15-20 points
You are constantly feeling that people are staring at you and judging you - your
face is burning, you’re feeling all flustered, and in the worst possible scenarios
you even feel immobilized.You need to remember that showing embarrassment is
not necessarily a negative thing. It acts as a kind of apology to those around you -
they can see the physical signs on your face that you are ‘sorry’ for what you have
done. So in cases such as 2, 3, 8 and 18, you will actually elicit the sympathy of
those around you. However, if you get embarrassed so often and so easily, you
may need to work out in your head why it is that you feel such constant embar-
rassment. You need to work on your confidence.
10-14 points
Your level of embarrassment is within the norm. And in fact it may actually be
working in your favor - your red face is merely a sign that you care about other
people, and your open expression of this embarrassment is nothing harmful as it
will actually make people like you more. However, if you are struggling to deal
with it, you need to work on ways on raising your levels of self confidence.
5-9 points
You need to be careful because your clear level of self confidence may seem to
others like arrogance.
0-4 points
Who are you kidding? You have either completely lost touch with the world
around you or are living a life of total delusion. What’s so bad about a bit of
embarrassment every now and then?
39
13  
How Strong Is Your Personality?
	 1.	 I find it difficult to say ‘no’ to the demands that other people make on me.
	 2.	 If someone jumps the queue and passes in front of me, I tell them to go back.
	 3.	 I usually put myself second in family matters.
	 4.	 If I receive poor service at a restaurant, I tell the manager.
	 5.	 I find it hard to leave a situation even when I have had enough.
	 6.	 In a meeting, of whatever kind, I like to take command.
	 7.	 I would never hesitate to ask a stranger in the street for help.
	 8.	 I believe that we should always fight for our rights - if we don’t, we are in dan-
ger of losing them.
	9.	I don’t have any issue with in quickly cutting off an unsolicited call with a
salesperson.
	
10.	 I frequently use my horn when driving.
	
11.	 If someone is talking too much I find it difficult to find an excuse to leave.
	
12.	 I am happy to get ahead even if this means cutting corners here and there.
	
13.	 I tend to tell people what they want to hear if this will further my aims.
	
14.	 When going out for dinner with a group of friends, I tend to be the one who
chooses where we are going to go.
	
15.	 I tend to dominate most conversations - both social and at work.
score
If you answered predominantly ‘yes’ to questions 2, 4, 6-10, and 12-15, you have
what others may tactfully call a strong personality. You insist on other people
respecting your rights, and may even be seen as pushy. Your behavior may be
bordering on aggression - be careful, don’t try to deprive others of their legitimate
rights.
If you answered ‘yes’ to questions 1, 3, 5 and 11, and ‘no’ to the majority of
the other questions, you are submissive, a follower rather than a leader, and easily
taken advantage of.
40
14  How Confident Are You?
	
1.	 You are standing in a lift with someone you don’t know.
	
a.	 You avoid all eye contact.
	
b.	 You ask them what floor they are going to.
	
c.	 You tell them a one-line joke that you’ve just read in a magazine.
	
2.	 A TV company is doing a street interview about the political elections about to
take place.
	
a.	 You cross the road as soon you see the TV crew.
	
b.	 You agree to be interviewed, but fail to express yourself well.
	
c.	 You deliver a perfect speech and consider going into politics yourself.
	
3.	 You are at a job interview.
	
a.	 You speak very quietly.
	
b.	 You hide your nerves by speaking slowly and loud.
	
c.	 You look the interviewers in the eyes and speak clearly.
	
4.	 You are making conversation with someone at a party. The person listening to
you is
	
a.	 Getting more and more bored the longer you talk.
	
b.	 Probably interested in what you are saying.
	c.	 Captivated by every word you say.
	
5.	 You find yourself on a topless beach. You think
	
a.	 I’ll just go near the dunes where no one can see me.
	
b.	 OK, this is cool by me.
	
c.	 This is absolutely the best way to sunbathe.
	
6.	 You walk into a room at a party and everyone seems to turn around and stare at
you.
	a.	 You become very anxious assuming that everyone thinks that you are wearing
something that they wouldn’t seen dead in.
	
b.	 You ask the person with you to explain what’s going on.
	
c.	 This is usual for you. You turn heads wherever you go.
	
7.	 You would be happy to receive a compliment from someone who said:
	
a.	 What a great job you’re doing holding down a job and bringing up a family.
	
b.	 Well done on the job promotion.
	
c.	 You are looking particularly sexy today.
41
15  
How Much Do You Like To Be in the Spotlight?
Part 1
For each sentence decide which part (a or b) that is most similar to you.
	 1.	 Do you believe that it is more rewarding to be
a)	 liked by others b) powerful?
	 2.	 Do you consider yourself more
a)	 practical b) creative?
	 3.	 Do you enjoy going to social events where
a)	people partake in intellectual discussions b) there is heavy alcohol
consumption?
	 4.	 In stressful situations, do you
a)	 generally feel anxious b) manage to remain calm ?
	 5.	 Do you have a tendency to
a)	 procrastinate b) get things done immediately?
	 6.	 As a general rule, do you
a)	 let other people influence your actions b) make all your own decisions?
	 7.	 Do you prefer being
a)	 on the margins b) at the center of attention?
	 8.	 Is feeling relaxed when talking in front of many people
a)	 difficult for you b) easy?
mostly a’s
You are rather shy and perhaps overly modest.
mostly b’s
You have found the right balance between being too demure and being over
confident.
mostly c’s
You have an extremely high (and possibly rather deluded) opinion of other peo-
ple’s opinion of you, imagining that everyone who looks at you will find you
immediately amazing. For many people such arrogant behavior will certainly be
a turn off ... however a few may find it a massive turn on.
42
	9.	Do you
a)	 worry too much about what other people think b) simply not care?
	
10.	 At a party do you prefer to
a)	 sit down and watch the others b) dance the night away?
Part 2
Now decide which of these characteristics match your personality and which don’t.
	
11.	 You tend to think before speaking, thereby reducing your chances of hurting or
misunderstanding those around you.
	
12.	 You have good listening skills.You silence allows you to open your ears and be
truly attentive.
	
13.	 You have a good understanding of other people as you tend to enjoy observing
human behavior in social settings.
	
14.	 You are quite independent and resourceful.You have learned to rely on yourself
rather than on others.
	
15.	 You like to dress in a way that makes you appear very attractive.
	
16.	 Your friends tend to know all about you, what you’ve done, what you did, what
you are doing and what you plan to do .... because you are always keeping them
informed.
	
17.	 You like/need to create a drama every now and then.
	
18.	 You tend to be both compulsive and impulsive.
	
19.	 As a child you felt the need to attract your parent’s attention away from other
things and on to you.
	
20.	 In a conversation at a dinner party, you like to direct the discussion and con-
stantly proffer your opinions.
score
Shyer people tend to choose the (a) answers in the first part, and statements
11-14 in Part 2.
Attention seekers tend to choose the (b) answers in the first part, and state-
ments 15-20 in Part 2.
43
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
A. Wallwork, Test Your Personality, Easy English!,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67226-7_4
Chapter 4
Trust, Honesty, Altruism and Ambition
16  How Trusting and Trustworthy Are You?
Glossary
check up on - v. investigate, verify
keep something back - v. refrain from mentioning
Airbnb - n. online marketplace and homestay network enabling people to list or
rent short-term accommodation in residential properties
crowdfunding - n. practice of funding a project or venture by raising monetary
contributions from a large number of people
decline - v. refuse politely
stand - v. how you feel about, what your position is in relation to something
beneath - adv. under
go blind - v. enter a situation with your eyes closed, i.e. without really thinking
about what you are doing
consistency - n. always following the same logic and behavior
humility - n. the opposite of arrogance
44
16  How Trusting and Trustworthy Are You?
part 1
	
1.	 If someone suggests a wonderful place to go on holiday, do you?
a	 check up on it
b	take them up on their idea
c	 stick to your original plans
	
2.	 Do you pick up hitchhikers?
a	never
b	quite often
c	 depends what sex they are
	
3.	 If someone knocks at your door, do you?
a	 open it immediately
b	with the door shut ask who it is
c	 open the door with the chain attached
	
4.	 When you make a new friend do you
a	 confide your personal life immediately
b	get them to talk as much as possible
c	 only tell them your secrets when you really know them well
	
5.	 On holiday where do you keep your money
a	 in your back pocket
b	in a bag around your neck
c	 in the hotel safe
	
6.	 When you vote do you generally?
a	 ask someone’s advice beforehand
b	rely on your intuition
c	 read various newspapers and then come to a decision
	
7.	 How much of a newspaper do you generally believe?
a	95%
b	75%
c	50%
	8.	 You are thinking about earning some money by renting your home out on Airbnb.
To what extent would you trust potential guests to leave your home exactly as
they found it?
a	95%
b	75%
c	50%
45
	 9.	 You are thinking about investing some money through crowdfunding. What do
you think are the chances of you seeing your money again?
	a	 95%
	b	 75%
	c	 50%
	
10.	 Someone offers to take you home in their car after a party where vast quantities
of alcohol have been consumed. He/she claims that they haven’t drunk ‘much’.
Do you?
	a	 Have no problem accepting the lift.
	
b	 Ask them to drive carefully.
	c	 Politely decline the offer.
part 2
Now decide if you match the following characteristics. You are able to:
•	 admit it when you do not know something
•	 be both flexible and reliable
•	 disagree without needing to argue
•	 keep agreements or renegotiate if necessary
•	 let others know how you feel, and where you stand in relation to them
•	 make compromises but not in relation to core principles or personal integrity
•	 recognize, accept, and enjoy the differences between you and your colleagues/
family
46
score
part 1
This part investigates how trusting you are of others.
mostly a’s
You are so trusting of others that sooner or later you are going to get a nasty
shock. Try to look a bit beneath the surface, and start questioning people’s
motives.
mostly b’s
You don’t go blind into situations, however you have probably had a few negative
experiences as a result of trusting someone too much.
mostly c’s
Most of the time you are fully aware of whether you can trust someone or not. In
any case, you are adverse to taking risks.
part 2
This part looks at the extent to which you inspire trust in others.
If you answered ‘yes’ to the majority of the questions, then you will probably
have most (if not all) the following characteristics: authenticity, compassion, con-
sistency, humility, integrity, kindliness, supportiveness.
17  How Honest Are You?
Glossary
wardrobe - n. piece of furniture that provides storage space for clothes
slot machine - n. a machine for gambling typical found in bars, cinemas etc.
root of all evil - exp. the prime cause of everything that is bad
gambling - n. the act of playing for stakes (money) in the hope of winning
chess - n. an ancient board game for two players who move their 16 pieces accord-
ing to specific rules
risk your shirt - v. undertake a venture without regard to possible loss or injury
addictive - adj. making you unable to stop (typically of a bad habit)
47
17  How Honest Are You?
	
1.	 You find a wallet in the street full of dollars and credit cards. The owner is obvi-
ously very rich and their address is in the wallet.
	a	 You pocket the money and throw the wallet away.
	
b	 You pocket the money and send the wallet to the owner.
	c	 You contact the owner and arrange to send the entire contents to him/her.
	
2.	 You are working in a foreign country. You discover you can earn a lot of money
without paying tax.
	a	 You take the money and don’t pay the tax.
	
b	 You pay the tax like an honest citizen.
	
c	You report your boss to the authorities for trying to give you black market
money.
	
3.	 You rent some new rooms. In a wardrobe in one of the rooms you find a fully
functional money printing machine.
	a	 You immediately start printing money.
	
b	 You leave the machine where it is.
	c	 You inform the police.
	
4.	 You are on holiday abroad and discover that you can use coins from your own
country in the local slot machines. The equivalent coin in your host country is
worth five times as much as your coins.
	a	 You don’t use your coins.
	
b	 You use your coins.
	
c	 You use the coins, and next time you return you take a large supply of extra
coins.
	
5.	 You are given change for a $50 note in a supermarket.You in fact only gave them
a $20 note.
	a	 You tell the assistant
	
b	 You say nothing
	c	 You say nothing and go again next day hoping the situation will be repeated.
	
6.	 You are in a jeweler’s shop and no one else is around. On the counter is a dia-
mond ring; nobody would know if you took it. What would you do
	a	 I’d be very tempted but wouldn’t take it
	
b	 I’d actually take it
	c	 Nothing. Temptation is not a word in my vocab
48
	
7.	 Which of the following do you believe in?
	a	 money is a necessary evil
	
b	 the love of money is the root of all evil
	c	 money breeds money
	
d	 money is power
	
8.	 What are your views of gambling as a form of entertainment?
	a	 not much, you prefer games like chess where luck doesn’t play a part
	
b	 you find the idea of risking your shirt attractive but in practice pull out quickly
if you don’t win
	c	 you find the excitement of being in the hands of fate totally addictive
	
d	 you like the chance element but prefer those kinds where mathematical prob-
ability or experience give you some control
score
A strong tendency towards dishonesty: 1 a, 2 a, 3 a, 4 c, 5 c, 6 b, 7 d, 8 c
Completely honest to the point of righteousness: 1 c, 2 c, 3 c, 4 a, 5 a, 6 c, 7 b, 8 a
Like most people: a mix of answers - tempted by some situations but overall
honest.
49
18  How Altruistic Are You?
Glossary
struggle - v. have great difficulty
water - v. salivate
tease - v. ridicule, harass, provoke
taunting - v. abuse vocally by deriding, mocking or criticizing
sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me - exp. your
violence might affect me physically, but nothing that you say to me will injure me
bedraggled - adj. in a very bad condition
flag someone down - v. stand at a roadside attempting to stop a passing car in order
to be helped
guilty - adj. feel unease because you did something bad to someone or did not do
something that you should have done
charity flag day - n. an activity to raise money for an institution set up to provide
help to the needy
jangle - v. shake a metallic container (in this case a money collection tin) in order to
attract attention
run - v. manage
thoroughly - adv. completely
selfish - adj. concerned only with yourself to the exclusion of others
do your bit - exp. make your contribution
fool yourself - v. give yourself the wrong impression
sainthood - n. the status of a saint, i.e. a person acknowledged as holy or virtuous
in the Christian faith
50
18  How Altruistic Are You?
	
1.	 You see an old lady struggling to cross the street with some heavy bags.
a	 You ignore her, she should get herself a shopper’s trolley.
b	You help her to cross.
c	You help her to cross and then offer to carry her bags home for her, even
though she lives in the opposite direction.
	
2.	 At a dinner party there’s one more chocolate left in the bowl.
a	 You take it and eat it when no one’s looking.
b	You offer it to the others first.
c	 You insist that someone else have it, though your mouth is watering.
	
3.	 You run over a cat in your car.
a	 You carry on driving.
b	You stop and knock at the presumed owner’s door.
c	 After calming down the owner you offer to take the cat to the vet.
	
4.	 A neighbor’s car alarm goes off in the middle of the night.
a	 You close the window and put your ear plugs in.
b	You ring the neighbor but do nothing more if there’s no reply.
c	 You rush round to investigate.
	
5.	 You see some children teasing and taunting another child.
a	 Based on the old saying that Sticks and stones may break my bones but words
will never hurt me, you do nothing.
b	You warn the children, but do nothing more if they persist after you’ve left.
c	 You break up the group and threaten to inform their parents.
	
6.	 You are driving along a country road in the dead of night. A bedraggled person
of unknown sex tries to flag you down.
a	 It’s probably some drunken maniac.
b	You drive past and feel terribly guilty that you didn’t stop.
c	 You stop immediately and give whatever assistance is needed.
	7.	 It’s some charity flag day and they’re jangling money boxes on the street.
a	 You cross over to the other side of the street.
b	You reluctantly donate 50c.
c	 You happily put a $20 note into the collection box.
51
	
8.	 You see a young teenager stealing sweets from the corner shop run by an old
couple.
a	 You remember when you used to do the same.
b	You tell the teenager that you’ve seen what they did.
c	 You inform the shopkeepers.
score
mostly a’s
Some might say that you are thoroughly selfish. Perhaps you need to start thinking
about others rather than just yourself.
mostly b’s
You do your bit to help the world, albeit rather half-heartedly.
mostly c’s
The world would certainly be a better place if everyone was like you. A sarcastic
interpretation would be that either you’re fooling yourself, or that you’ll shortly be
in line for sainthood.
52
19  How Nice Are You?
Glossary
practice what you preach - exp. act in accordance with how you say that you
should act
foul - adj. unpleasant
be better off - exp. be in a better position/situation
put yourself in someone else’s shoes - exp. project yourself into someone else’s
predicament and understand how they feel
bear a grudge  - exp. maintain resentment or anger against someone for a past
offense
keep your cool - exp. maintain your calm in a difficult situation
53
19  How Nice Are You?
	 1.	 No matter who I am talking to, I’m always a good listener.
	 2.	 I am happy to admit it when I make a mistake.
	 3.	 I try to practice what I preach.
	 4.	 When I don’t know something, I have no problem in admitting it.
	 5.	 Even if someone is foul to me, I will still try to be agreeable.
	 6.	 I have never deliberately said something that hurt someone’s feelings.
	 7.	 I believe that if you give the average person a job to do, he/she will finish it
successfully.
	8.	People usually tell the truth even when they know they would be better off
lying.
	 9.	 Attempts to understand ourselves are a waste of time.
	
10.	 If you are popular as a child you will be popular as an adult too.
If you answered ‘yes’ to the majority of questions 1-8, most people are likely to
consider you to be a nice, sincere and decent person. So what areas do you need to
work on if you want to be a nice (nicer) person? Typically the following adjectives
are used to describe ‘nice’ people:
•	 considerate  - someone who takes other people’s feelings into consideration
before saying something or taking a particular course of action
•	 empathetic - someone who is able to put themselves in someone else’s shoes and
relate to their situation
•	 forgiving - someone who doesn’t bear grudges and understands that it is only
human to make errors
•	 fun  - someone who has a sense of humor and can see the funny side of a
situation
•	 modest - someone who is able to be humble and does not take themselves too
seriously
•	 patient - someone who keeps their cool in the face of difficulty
•	 self-aware - someone who is conscious of their own behavior and limits, and has
a sense of self criticism
•	 strong - someone who is mentally strong and resilient to push forwards
54
20  How Tactful Are You?
Glossary
pensioner - n. someone who is no longer in employment and who receives money
(a pension) from the state
to be starring - v. to be the most important performer or have the most important
role
play - n. a theatrical performance
proud - adj. feeling good about yourself or someone close (partner, member of fam-
ily, colleague) due to your/their very good performance
dreadful - adj. exceptionally bad or displeasing
hideous - adj. extremely ugly
to be short of - exp. to have an insufficient amount of something
cheap and cheerful - exp. despite not being expensive, an object or place that is
sufficiently pleasant
upset - v. cause an emotional disturbance
55
20  How Tactful Are You?
	
1.	 Your friend has just come out of the hairdresser’s. You say:
	a	 I know a lawyer who can help you to sue whoever cut your hair like that.
	
b	 It looks a bit short, but hey it’ll soon grow again.
	c	 Hey, I like your new look.
	
2.	 You see a pensioner inadvertently put something in their pocket instead of the
trolley. You would:
	a	 Report them to manager.
	
b	 Go up to them and point out what they have done.
	c	 Do nothing.
	
3.	 At a dinner party the hosts have served inedible food. You would:
	a	 Let everyone know how awful the food is.
	
b	 Eat a few mouthfuls and then push the plate to the side.
	c	 Try and eat everything you can.
	
4.	 You go to watch a school play starring the child of your good friend who is sit-
ting next to you. The play is really bad. You say:
	a	 Sorry, but I really am going to have to leave in the interval.
	
b	 I see that school plays haven’t got any better since we were at school together.
	c	 Your kid is so great, you must be so proud.
	
5.	 You receive a dreadful birthday present from an old aunt and uncle. You would:
	
a	 Tell them you think it is hideous, and ask whether it was actually a joke on
their part.
	
b	 Say nothing, and open the next present.
	c	 Thank them, take it home but never use it.
	
6.	 You are planning to go to a restaurant with a group of friends, one of whom is
short of money at the moment. Would you suggest going to
	a	 Your usual restaurant which is really rather expensive.
	
b	 A medium-priced restaurant which at least all the others can afford.
	c	 A cheap and cheerful restaurant, where the food is still good.
	
7.	 A friend has just had a baby - rather ugly - which you are now seeing for the first
time. You say:
	a	 Oh dear, what happened to you!
	
b	 She has a very interesting face.
	c	 What a lovely smile and a lovely girl.
56
	
8.	 You are just leaving a supermarket and another customer drops all their bags in
front of you. Would you
	a	 Laugh heartily and leave.
	
b	 Pretend you haven’t noticed.
	c	 Help them collect their shopping.
score
mostly a’s
You have clearly never heard of the concept of being ‘diplomatic’. The fact that
you tell people exactly what you think may be appreciated by some people on
some particular occasions, but most of time you are probably going around upset-
ting people.
mostly b’s
You know how to be tactful but sometimes you lose your patience and tell people
around you what you think.
mostly c’s
You hate upsetting the balance. You wish to maintain calm at all times. As a con-
sequence you tend to be positive, considerate and helpful. However, be careful
your tactfulness may at times be interpreted as insincerity.
57
21  How Ambitious Are You?
accomplish - v. gain with effort
take something to heart - exp. take criticism seriously and be affected or upset by it
civil service - n. public administration, government work
equate - v. be equivalent, similar, equal, or analogous to something else
destroy - v. damage irreparably
lifespan - n. the period between birth and death
21  How Ambitious Are You?
Read the sentences carefully and answer with true (T), false (F), or partly true (PT).
There are no right or wrong answers in this test, since what matters most is your
opinion. Try to answer as spontaneously as possible. If any of the questions do not
directly apply to you, try to imagine yourself in the situation.
	 1.	 I am annoyed when people who are not more intelligent than me achieve more.
	 2.	 I am not a good loser.
	 3.	 I consider people who accomplish nothing to be less valuable to society.
	4.	I could not become very enthusiastic about any activity that gets little
recognition.
	 5.	 I enjoy party games because I always try to win.
	 6.	 I find solving difficult problems stimulating.
	 7.	 I like to compare my achievements with those of other people.
	8.	I take criticism very much to heart.
	 9.	 I try to develop my weaker qualities through training.
	
10.	 I will watch television programs and videos on YouTube, even though I may
find them uninteresting, if I think I can profit from them.
58
	
11.	 I would have liked to have been top of the class at school.
	
12.	 I would like to do better than my parents.
	
13.	 I would prefer a fairly insecure job with good promotion prospects to a quiet
and secure job in the civil service.
	
14.	 It is very important to me that others appreciate my achievements.
	
15.	 My professional career is more important to me than many other things.
score
The more T answers you have given, the more ambitious you are.
If you answered T to more than 10 questions you need to be aware of the
potential dangers of being overambitious. One problem is that as children we are
often taught that ambition is a key determiner for success. But it really depends
on what you define as ‘success’. Research has frequently found that money and
status don’t necessarily equate with happiness or even with satisfaction. In fact,
ambition is only weakly connected with well-being and may actually destroy your
relationships with others and even lead to a shorter than average lifespan.
59
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
A. Wallwork, Test Your Personality, Easy English!,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67226-7_5
Chapter 5
Health and Body
In this chapter the glossaries are all listed together below.
22  How Healthy Are You?
flights (of stairs) n. section of a staircase between one floor and another
breathless - adj. able to breathe only with difficulty
fill someone with delight  - exp. provide a feeling of extreme pleasure or
satisfaction
defy - v. go against
count - v. rely on
23  How Happy Are You With Yourself?
bitter - adj. marked by strong resentment or cynicism
resentful - adj. full of resentment and ill will
trait - n. typical characteristic
face up to - exp. address a problem and try to deal with it
deny - v. declare untrue
comfort zone - n. a situation where you feel safe and at ease
60
24  How Happy Are You With Your Body?
resigned - adj. having come to accept
overly - adv. to an excessive degree
self esteem - n. an attitude of admiration, approval and liking of and for oneself
comfortable - adj. free from stress, accepting
wellbeing - n. a contented state of being happy, healthy and prosperous
25  How Obsessed Are You About Your Job?
overtime - n. work done in addition to regular working hours
workaholic - n. person with a compulsive need to work
26  Are You a Victim of Stress?
mistake someone for someone else - exp. think that someone is another person
teasing - n. playful provocation
in a rush - exp. needing to do something quickly, under pressure to do something
burden - n. load, weight
61
22  How Healthy Are You?
Which questions, if answered ‘yes’, would indicate that you are probably living a
healthy life?
	 1.	 At any point during the last week have you walked more than 2 kilometers on a
single walk?
	 2.	 If you have to go up more than two flights, do you usually take the lift?
	 3.	 Do you try to limit your intake of sugary, fatty or salty food?
	 4.	 Do you usually grill food rather than fry it?
	 5.	 On most days, do you eat at least two portions of fresh fruit?
	 6.	 In the space of a week, do you drink 14 or fewer units of alcohol?
	 7.	 Do your gums sometimes bleed when you brush your teeth?
	8.	Are you breathless if you have to walk up four flights of stairs?
	 9.	 Do you often fall asleep when it is not actually bedtime?
	
10.	 Do you often take work home with you?
	
11.	 Is your blood pressure less than 120 over 80?
	
12.	 If you are over 30, has your weight changed increased more than 3 kg in the last
five years?
	
13.	 When possible, do you tend to eat organic food?
	
14.	 Does the idea of big fat steak fill you with delight?
	
15.	 Do you use semi-skimmed milk rather than full-fat milk?
	
16.	 Do you catch colds more often than most other people you know?
	
17.	 Do you have your cholesterol levels checked regularly?
score
Healthy lifestyle: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 11, 13, 15, 17
If you answered yes to most of the ‘healthy lifestyle” answers then you are
already taking the most of the right steps for health and fitness. However, if
you answered no to many of the ‘healthy’ answers, you have defied medical
theory ... so don’t count on it lasting forever.
62
23  How Happy Are You With Yourself?
	 1.	 Do you ever wish that you looked like someone else who you judge to be physi-
cally attractive?
	 2.	 Do you always want to know how others have performed on a test that you have
just taken?
	 3.	 Do you use words like ‘normal’ and ‘average’ to describe yourself?
	 4.	 Are you always looking to make friends on Facebook?
	5.	Do you get upset if only a few people ‘like’ something you have posted on
Facebook?
	 6.	 Do you find yourself having to announce your accomplishments to others?
	 7.	 Do you get upset when you can’t get your point across to other people?
	 8.	 Do you spend a lot of time analysing by yourself the relationships that you have
with friends and colleagues?
	 9.	 In a classroom do you always sit at the back?
	
10.	 Do you look back at family holidays with a sense of sadness?
score
If you answered ‘yes’ to six or more of the questions then most people would
define you as being ‘unhappy’. Typical traits of unhappy people include an
inability to:
•	 enjoy the good fortune of others, instead you tend to be rather bitter and
resentful
•	 face up to various issues in your life and to resolve them. You have a ten-
dency to deny that you have a problem that probably most of those around
you are aware exists
•	 help others
•	 make true friends
•	 move out of your comfort zone - you refuse to take any risks, and as a con-
sequence your situation remains static with no hope of improvement
•	 take responsibility for your life, instead you tend to blame other people or
general circumstances for your difficulty
•	 view the positive aspects of life
63
24  How Happy Are You With Your Body?
Look at the parts of the body and body attributes below. For each part decide how
satisfied you are on a scale of:
A	 - not happy at all, embarrassed
B	- resigned
C	 - reasonably happy
D	 - very satisfied, very fortunate
bottom facial complexion nose
build fingers profile
chest hair shape of head
chin hands teeth
distribution of hair over body knees voice
ear legs weight
eyes neck width of shoulders
Score
mostly As
You are overly critical of yourself about your appearance. This could have a
negative impact on your self esteem. Learn to be more accepting of yourself.
No one is perfect.
a mix of Bs and Cs
You are often too influenced by the way your culture and society interpret the
physical impression that someone makes. It is highly likely that you are unre-
alistic both about how you body really looks and how you think it should look.
Try to ensure that you have a more emotionally healthy and a positive sense
of self.
mostly Ds
You are comfortable with the way you appear to yourself and the way you
appear to others. Your confidence and wellbeing are benefitting from this
attitude.
64
25  How Obsessed Are You About Your Job?
Answer ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to the following questions.
	 1.	 I am hoping to be promoted within the next six months.
	 2.	 I would like to be given roles with more and more responsibility.
	3.	I’d rather make the wrong decision than waver too long to make the right
decision.
	 4.	 I will try to avoid overtime - not only does it take up too much time, but I also
believe it is a kind of exploitation.
	 5.	 Other people’s criticism doesn’t bother me.
	 6.	 I find it difficult to enjoy a holiday because I would rather be at work.
	 7.	 The most important things that happen to me involve work.
	 8.	 I am always trying to think of ways of doing my job more effectively.
	 9.	 It makes me unhappy when my work is not up to its usual standard.
	
10.	 I can do my boss’s job better than he/she can.
	
11.	 I am happy to tell my boss if I think he/she has done something wrong.
	
12.	 I tend to take my job responsibilities more seriously than my personal and fam-
ily responsibilities.
	
13.	When at home I find it difficult to relax and clear my mind of work-related
matters.
	
14.	 I feel I am able to influence the decisions taken by my immediate supervisor.
	
15.	 I spend most weekends working.
score
If you answered ‘yes’ to questions 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13 and 15 you are a worka-
holic. You spend far too much time either being at work or thinking about
work. You should consider shifting some of your priorities to other aspects of
your life (family and leisure).
If you answered with a mix of ‘yes’ and ‘no’ you have a healthy attitude to
work.
65
26  Are You a Victim of Stress?
Part 1
1	 At the airport in a foreign country some officials stop you after you have just
gone through passport control.
	a	 No problem - they must have mistaken you for someone else.
	
b	 You are sure that you will miss your flight.
2	 Your boss has just asked you to make a mini presentation in a meeting which is
due to begin in 10 minutes.
	a	 You feel nervous.
	
b	 You are calm and confident.
3	 Heavy traffic blocks you on the way to a meeting.
	a	 You immediately use your mobile to inform your colleagues.
	
b	 You do nothing and apologize when you arrive.
4	 Your superiors are carefully monitoring a project you are working on.
	a	 You are happy that they are taking an active interest in your work.
	
b	You’re worried that they might find something seriously wrong with your
work.
5	 You have been invited to an interview. The secretary says: “Ms Jones will see
you in a minute.” An hour has now passed.
	a	 You feel angry and frustrated.
	
b	 You feel relaxed and sure that an excellent new job is just round the corner.
6	 At a project meeting yesterday some of your colleagues teased you about some
of your ideas.
	a	 You still feel quite angry and embarrassed.
	
b	 A bit of teasing never harmed anyone.
Part 2
Answer yes or no to the following questions.
1	 Are you very competitive?
2	 Do you often take work home with you or study for long hours at a time?
3	 Do you have to travel a lot for work or study?
4	 Do you get very nervous before examinations (both academic and medical)?
5	 Are you always in a rush?
6	 Are you a good listener?
7	 Do you often get angry with the stupidities of other drivers?
8	 Are you worried about what people think of you?
9	 Are you patient when waiting in queues?
10	Do you normally show your feelings?
66
score
part 1
You are totally stressed out if you agreed with the majority of the following
questions:
1 b, 2 a, 3 a, 4 b, 5 a, 6 a
You are a very relaxed and positive person if you agreed with the majority of
the following questions:
1 a, 2 b, 3 b, 4 a, 5 b, 6 b
part 2
If you answered yes to six or more of questions 1-5 and 7-8 and no to the oth-
ers, you are leading a very stressful life and you should take active steps to
reduce your stress burden.
If you answered yes to three or four of these questions, you are rather too wor-
ried much of the time and perhaps too ambitious.
If you answered yes to two of the questions, your level of stress indicates that
you lead a normal relaxed life.
If you answered no to the above questions and yes to 6 and 9, then you are
incredibly relaxed - you are almost asleep!
67
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
A. Wallwork, Test Your Personality, Easy English!,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67226-7_6
Chapter 6
Image, Imagination and Communication
27  
How Important Are Personal Image and Ambition
for You?
Answer each sentence with ‘true’ (T), ‘false’ (F) or ‘partly true’ (PT).
	 1	 I would have liked to have been top of the class at school.
	 2	 I believe that if I don’t pay attention to my personal image at work I will stand
less chance of being promoted.
	3	If I had the choice I would prefer a fairly insecure job with good promotion
prospects to a quiet and secure job in the civil service.
	 4	 It annoys me if people who are not more intelligent than me achieve more.
	 5	 If I had more money I would buy more status symbols such as a self-drive car,
the latest iPhone, a personal robot.
	 6	 If someone criticizes me, I am affected and upset by it.
	 7	 If I am going to a meeting or presentation I make sure I wear very smart clothes.
	 8	 If I hadn’t worked so hard earlier in my life, I wouldn’t be where I am today.
	 9	 If I can I would like to do better than my parents.
	
10	 I never think about what I more I could have done in a particular situation, I
simply focus on what I can do now.
68
score
Give yourself two points for every ‘true’, one point for every ‘partly true’. No
points are scored for ‘false’ answers. Add up your points for the 10 questions.
17-20
Very strong:Your personal image and sense of ambition tend to rule over your
life.
14-16
Strong
11-13
Average to strong
8-10
Average to weak
0-7
Weak: Your personal image and sense of ambition have little importance for
you in terms of how you lead your life.
28  How Imaginative Are You?
Glossary
parcel - n. a package that has been wrapped
fancy dress party - n. party where people wear costumes
extra-terrestrial - n. a creature from another planet
recipe - n. directions for making something in the kitchen
fairy godmother - n. someone imaginary who helps you when you are in a difficult
situation
pet - n. domestic animal (cat, dog, rabbit) typically treated like a member of the
family
take something to the next level - exp. progress to a higher and better point/stage
gift - n. a present
fairly - adv. to a moderately sufficient extent or degree
wonder  - n. the positive feeling aroused by something strange, surprising or
wonderful
boundary - n. a limit past which people should not cross
think outside the box - exp. not to think in the usual standard way, but instead think
laterally in order generate unusual approaches or solutions
69
28  How Imaginative Are You?
You have 60 seconds to complete this quiz. Answer each question. If you can’t think
of an answer move on to the next question.
	1	A mystery parcel arrives for you from another country. What does it contain?
	 2	 You have the opportunity to choose any job you wish. Which job?
	 3	 You’re invited to a fancy dress party. What would you go as?
	 4	 You’ve formed a pop group. What would you call it?
	 5	 You’re an inventor. What machine or device would you invent?
	 6	 You meet an extra-terrestrial. What does he/she/it look like?
	 7	 Someone rings you up a three in the morning. Who is it?
	 8	 You’ve invented a new recipe. What are three of the ingredients?
	 9	 You meet your fairy godmother. What do you ask her for?
	
10	 You choose a new pet for your household. What animal or bird is it?
score
Give yourself 1 point for every question you managed to answer. This should
give you a total score of something between 1 and 10
9-10 points
You have taken you imagination to the next level. Some of the greatest scien-
tists and brains of the last millennium - Leonardo da Vinci, Isaac Newton and
Albert Einstein - had a strong imagination like yours.
7-8 points
You have an extremely developed sense of the imagination.You use this won-
derful gift to keep you ahead of the game.
4-6 points
Your life is fairly routine. You don’t come up with quick solutions and go
through life without necessarily experiencing the beauty and wonder around
you.
1-3 points
You appear to have little or no imagination. You create boundaries around
yourself, and the concept of thinking outside the box is totally alien to you.
70
29  How Do You Communicate?
Glossary
tell someone off - v. reprimand
keep something back - v. refrain from mentioning
burp - v. expel wind noisily from the stomach through the mouth
gossip - v. speak about others behind their back and reveal secrets or intimacies
pet - n. domestic animal (cat, dog, rabbit) typically treated like a member of the
family
digestible - adj. capable of being digested (i.e. understood)
non-verbal cues n. indicators of what someone is feeling revealed through their
body language rather than what they are saying
straightforward - adj. direct, free from ambiguity
29  How Do You Communicate?
	 1	 Which is the most difficult for you:
	a	 showing someone affection?
	b	 telling someone off?
	c	 complaining about bad service?
	
d	 remembering what you want to say?
	 2	 Do you understand communication better by:
	a	 body language?
	
b	 the written word?
	c	 voice?
	
d	 actions and behavior?
	 3	 When you make a new friend do you:
	a	 confide your personal life immediately?
	
b	 get them to talk as much as possible?
	c	 tell them your secrets when you know them well?
	d	 always keep something back?
	 4	 Do you feel more embarrassed when:
	a	 You don’t understand a joke?
	
b	 When you say something you shouldn’t have?
	c	 You have to undress at the doctor’s?
	d	 You burp at a restaurant?
71
	 5	 Who do you touch and accept being touched by:
	a	 Colleagues and acquaintances?
	b	 Close friends?
	c	 Members of family and partner?
	d	 Partner only?
	 6	 Which do you dislike most:
	a	 being gossiped about?
	
b	 being the center of attention?
	c	 people referring to you as ‘normal’?
	
d	 people referring to you as ‘strange’?
	7	If you could have only one of the following in your house which would you
have?
	a	 books and magazines
	b	 computer
	c	 music
	d	 a pet animal
	 8	 When round a dinner table with friends or colleagues, do you tend to:
	a	 dominate the conversation
	
b	 encourage the others to talk
	c	 listen or talk where appropriate
	
d	 say nothing all evening
	 9	 When you make a phone call do you try to
	a	 make yourself understood
	
b	 say what you want to say as quickly as possible
	c	 remember what it is you’ve got to say
	
d	 listen only to the other person
	
10	 Do you understand people who communicate better by
	a	 body language
	
b	 the written word
	c	 voice
	
d	 action and behavior
72
30  
How Strong Are Your Psychic Powers?
Glossary
out-of-body experience - n. apparently supernatural state where you feel that you
have left your body
trance - n. a psychological state as if induced by a magical incantation
séance - n. a meeting at which people attempt to make contact with the dead
ghost - n. supernatural appearance of a dead person
haunted - adj. apparently inhabited by a ghost
reincarnation - n. doctrine/belief that person may be reborn
moronic - adj. ridiculous
harness - v. control; keep in check
inner self - n. your personal, internal identity
figment of the imagination - n. a contrived or fantastic idea
score
There are no right or wrong answers. However, good communicators tend to
have the following traits in common: They:
•	 Are always willing and quick to help.
•	 Are good listeners.
•	 Ask pertinent questions that show they are following and understanding
what is being said.
•	 Easily relate to others (i.e. try to understand those that they are communi-
cating with).
•	 Focus exclusively on the communication without being distracted (e.g.
don’t check their phone while talking to you).
•	 Keep everything simple by clarifying and making their message easily
digestible by others.
•	 Recognize non-verbal cues.
•	 Use straightforward unambiguous language, never try to be smart just for
the sake of it.
73
30  
How Strong Are Your Psychic Powers?
Answer ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to the following questions.
	 1	 Have you ever had an out of body experience or unconsciously entered a trance
state?
	 2	 Have you ever sent thoughts to other people and had proof that they received
them, or vice versa?
	 3	 Have you heard a ‘voice’ calling your name - yet there is no source?
	 4	 Have you ever successfully participated in a serious séance?
	 5	 Have you ever really seen a ghost or felt the effects of being in a haunted place?
	6	Have you ever experienced something moving apparently without normal
cause?
	 7	 Have you ever been successively hypnotised?
	 8	 Do you find yourself finishing a sentence for someone because you intuitively
know what is going to be said (rather than making a logical assumption about
what they’re going to say)?
	 9	 Do you believe in reincarnation?
	
10	 Have you ‘sensed’ or ‘felt’ strong impressions not shared by others present?
Decide whether the score on the next page was:
	
a)	 written to be taken seriously, particularly by people who believe that they may
have psychic powers
	
b)	 intended to be tongue in cheek, i.e. to make fun of people who believe in super-
natural powers
74
31  
To What Extent Do You Live in Your Own Dream World?
Glossary
intriguing - adj. capable of arousing interest or curiosity
sheer - adj. complete and without restriction
introspective - adj. given to examining your sensory and perceptual experiences
intuitive  - adj. obtained through intuition rather than from reasoning or
observation
selfless - adj. concerned for the welfare of others rather than your own needs
loyal - adj. showing constant support for a person
gentle - adj. having or showing a kindly or tender nature
aid - v. help
disposition - n. your usual mood
sensitive - adj. being susceptible to attitudes, feelings, or circumstances
score
Give yourself one point for every ‘yes’ answer.
9-10 points
Excellent - you are probably communicating better with the dead than the liv-
ing.You should consider helping your local police force in solving crimes. Or
even better, offer your services to your government.
7-8 points
Very good - you should give serious thought to deeper development of your
psychic potential. Find people (friendly ghosts?) to help you.
4-6 points
To you the concept of psychic powers is not entirely clear - is it mythical, magical
or moronic? Despite this, even a score of 4 indicates that you would still be able to
harness the psychic powers that until now have remained hidden in your inner self.
1-3 points
Your psychic powers are seriously underdeveloped. If you are interested in
really getting in touch with your spirit, then you need to realise that develop-
ing your psychic side can enrich your life.
0 points
You’re living in the real world and know that extra sensory perception, ghosts,
and out of body experiences are merely a figment of the imagination.
75
31  
To What Extent Do You Live in Your Own Dream World?
Answer yes or no to the following questions.
	 1	 Do you often contemplate the reasons for human existence?
	 2	 Do you often feel as if you have to justify yourself to other people?
	 3	 Do you often find yourself lost in thought when you are walking in nature?
	 4	 Do you often spend time exploring unrealistic yet intriguing ideas?
	 5	 Do you rarely do something just out of sheer curiosity?
	 6	 Do you rarely get carried away by fantasies and ideas?
	 7	 Do you see yourself as very emotionally stable?
	 8	 Would you call yourself a dreamer?
	 9	 Do your dreams tend to focus on the real world and its events?
	
10	 Do your emotions control you more than you control them?
Now decide which of the following adjectives apply to your personality:
score
If you ticked most of the adjectives and answered ‘yes’ to questions 1, 2, 3, 4,
8 and 10, and predominantly ‘no’ to the other questions, then you are dreamer.
You probably have a loyal and gentle nature, aided by your idealism and sen-
sitive disposition. Your social media pages are probably dominated by the
causes you believe in, which are likely to include helping others, searching for
world peace. You are driven by emotion and can thus act quite randomly and
spontaneously. You dislike conflict, are very sensitive and easily hurt.
Abstract
Adaptable
Artistic
Caring
Creative
Easygoing
Empathetic
Future-focused
Idealistic
Imaginative
Independent
Internally aware
Introspective
Intuitive
Private
Selfless
Values-oriented
Warm
77
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
A. Wallwork, Test Your Personality, Easy English!,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67226-7_7
Chapter 7
Friends’ Family and Partners
In this chapter all the glossaries are listed together below.
32  What Kind of a Friend Are You?
juicy - adj. suggestive of sexual impropriety
stuff - n. unspecified belongings
hideous - adj. extremely ugly
lie - v. not tell the truth
33  
What Do You Look For in a Partner?
to be matched - v. be suited
domestic chores - n. cleaning and tidying activities around the house
78
34  
How Well Does Your Partner Know You and Do
You Know Your Partner?
compatible  - adj. able to exist and perform in harmonious or agreeable
combination
curse word - n. offensive word used to express anger or annoyance
ticklish spot - n. location on your body that is susceptible to being tickled (i.e. light
touching by another person of one of the parts of your body in a way that is slightly
irritating but makes you want to laugh)
to mind - v. be concerned and bothered with or about something or somebody
bargain - n. an advantageous purchase
thrill rides at a fun fair - n. activities causing high levels of sensation at an amuse-
ment park
fair amount - exp. adequate; considerable quantity
35  
How Well Do Your Family Know You?
pointless - adj. serving no useful purpose
tidy - adj. marked by good order and cleanliness in appearance or habits
guilty - adj. feeling responsible for something that you have done (or not done)
36  What Kind of a Parent Are You (Would You Be)?
hang on to - v. keep
upbringing - n. experience acquired during a person's formative years
once in a blue moon - exp. extremely rarely
obey - v. do what someone tells you to do
79
32  What Kind of a Friend Are You?
This test should be done in conjunction with the next test: “What do you look for in
a partner?”
Look at the following situations. Choose the answer that you think is what a really
good friend would do or choose. There are no correct answers’ and hence no score.
Instead you should compare your answers with your close friends. If they have simi-
lar answers to you’ then you are perfectly matched as friends. If they don't have
similar answers’ then you clearly have different expectations of each other.
	
1	 You know a juicy story about your friend.
	a	 I tell everyone I know.
	
b	 I tell people but without revealing the person in question.
	c	 I keep it to myself.
	
2	 You just saw a very good friend's partner kissing someone else.
	a	 I immediately tell my friend.
	
b	 I later ask the friend's partner what they were doing or why they did it.
	c	 It's none of my business.
	
3	 My definition of a true friend is someone who:
	a	 Tells me everything.
	
b	 Tells me just what I want need to know.
	c	 Keeps their thoughts to themselves.
	
4	 Your friend accidentally drops your phone and the screen cracks.
	a	 I say I needed a new one anyway.
	
b	 I ask them to pay for it.
	c	 I don't let them pay for it but tell them that they need to be more careful.
	
5	 Your friend is always borrowing your stuff but never gives it back. Now they want
to borrow something that has a strong emotional attachment for you.
	a	 I lend it to them.
	
b	 I say I no longer have the thing that they want.
	c	 I politely refuse.
	
6	 Your friend has just bought a hideous shirt.
	a	 I say nothing and start talking about something else.
	b	 I lie and say that I like it.
	c	 I tell the truth.
	
7	 An ideal friend should be:
	a	 As intelligent as me if not more so.
	
b	 Less intelligent and less talented than me.
	c	 About the same as me.
80
33  
What Do You Look For in a Partner?
Rate the following in terms of how important they are for you in terms of your ideal
partner.
3 = essential
0 = not important at all
There is no score to this test. Instead you could try comparing your answers with
those of your partner. If they have similar answers to you’ then you are perfectly
matched. If the majority of your answers are different’ then you clearly have differ-
ent expectations of each other and should thus think hard about whether you really
are suited to each other.
•	 a desire to have children
•	 a desire to have a home of your own
•	 ability to communicate
•	 acceptance of them exactly as they are
•	 equal capacity to respond to each other's emotional needs
•	 equal sharing of household chores
•	 financial security
•	 good relationships with each other's parents
•	 shared sense of humor
•	 similar cultural and educational background
•	 similar hygiene standards
•	 similar intelligence
•	 similar interests
•	 similar religious and political views
•	 similar social class
•	 similar views on punctuality
81
34  
How Well Does Your Partner Know You and Do
You Know Your Partner?
The next two tests you can do with your partner. You can do them in three ways.
•	 Either: Do the test separately and write down the answers both for yourself and
for your partner. For example’ for question 1 you write down i) where you were
born’ ii) where he/she was born.
•	 Or: Do the test together orally. Simply make a note of when you or your partner
got the correct answer. Put a cross if you or your partner put the wrong answer.
•	 Or. Just have fun answering the questions together’ without bothering to keep a
score.
If you decide to score your results’ then you can do it on the basis of two factors:
	i)	 Which of you knows the other better. In this case keep a note of all the times
when only one of you gets the correct answer. Score one point for each such
answer. Clearly the 'winner' is the person who gets the most points.
	ii)	 How compatible you are as a couple. In this case’ keep a note of those times
when in answer to the same question’ you both got the correct answer.
Part 1
	 1.	 In what town was he/she born?
	 2.	 What is his/her mother's maiden name?
	 3.	 How tall is he/she?
	 4.	 How much does he/she weigh?
	 5.	 What shoe size he/she?
	 6.	 What was he/she wearing yesterday?
	 7.	 What is the last item of clothing he/she takes off before going to bed?
	 8.	 What part of his/her body is he/she least happy with?
	 9.	 What part of your body does he/she like the most?
	
10.	 What personality trait does he/she most like in you?
	
11.	 What does he/she most dislike about you?
	
12.	 What is the name of his/her first boy/girl friend?
	
13.	 Which of your close friends does he/she like the least?
	
14.	 What is the first thing he/she usually does after waking up?
	
15.	 What food’ if any’ is he/she allergic too?
	
16.	 How many sugars’ if any’ does he/she take in her tea/coffee?
	
17.	 If you go out for a drink’ what will he/she order for him/herself?
	
18.	 What is his/her favorite curse word?
	
19.	 Approximately how many friends does he/she have on Facebook?
	
20.	 Where is his/her most ticklish spot?
	
21.	 What is his/her favorite movie?
	
22.	 If he/she could replace you with a film star’ who would it be?
	
23.	 What is the strongest fear he/she has?
	
24.	 Who is his/her favorite politician?
	
25.	 Who did he/she vote for in the last election?
82
Part 2
Would your partner answer 'yes' or 'no' to the following statements regarding you?
	 1.	 I always try to practice what I preach.
	 2.	 I am always willing to admit it when I make a mistake.
	 3.	 I don't like being touched by someone I don't know.
	 4.	 At times I pretend to know more than I really do.
	5.	I don't mind talking about my private life.
	 6.	 I always finish what I start.
	 7.	 I sometimes have to stop myself from talking too much.
	 8.	 I am good at keeping secrets.
	 9.	 I am loyal to my friends.
	
10.	 I'd like to live for a year in another country.
	
11.	 I think I spend too much of my time on social media.
	
12.	 I remember seeing the sea for the first time.
	
13.	 I tend to try and do too many things at the same time.
	
14.	 I prefer discovering things by myself rather than someone teaching me how to
do them.
	
15.	 When shopping’ I always look for a bargain.
	
16.	 I tend to collect useless objects.
	
17.	 I like moving things around in my room and seeing how they look.
	
18.	 It typically takes me more than 20 minutes to get ready to go to a party.
	
19.	 At a restaurant I tend not to order things I've never tried before.
	20.	 I like thrill rides at the fun fair.
score
part 1
0- 8: You must be very confused about each other and are clearly not
compatible.
9-15: You know a fair amount about each other but still have a lot to learn
before you will be in complete harmony.
16-20: You've clearly been together for some time and have an excellent
understanding.
21-25: Wow!
part 2
There is no score for this part of the test.
83
35  
How Well Do Your Family Know You?
In this test you have two tasks:
	i)	 answer the questions for yourself.
	
ii)	 for each answer you give’ ask a member of your family if he/she would also
have answered the question in the same way as you regarding your behavior. For
example’ if you say that you 'lock up the house carefully before going to bed'‘
your family member should say whether this is true or not.
	 1.	 I lock up the house carefully before going to bed.
	 2.	 I spend too much time working in order to be able to afford pointless material
objects.
	 3.	 I tend not to lose sleep over my problems.
	 4.	 As a child I was more afraid of the dark than most children.
	 5.	 I am a tidy person.
	 6.	 I am embarrassed to tell people who I work for.
	 7.	 I am satisfied with life.
	 8.	 I don't enjoy competitive games.
	 9.	 I find it difficult to take time off work without feeling guilty.
	
10.	 I get nervous if I have to wait.
	
11.	 I just laugh at most of the stupid things that politicians do.
	
12.	 I tend to hang on to all my clothes even if they don't fit me anymore.
	
13.	 I think I am contributing to the world and leading a useful life.
	
14.	 I think it is important to safeguard your future through insurance policies and
pension schemes.
	
15.	 I would feel uncomfortable if dressed inappropriately at a particular event.
	
16.	 It is not easy being me.
	
17.	 I am fascinated by fire.
	
18.	 I am not keen on speaking in public.
	
19.	 People often disappoint me.
	
20.	 I always tried to get the best marks as I could at school.
score
There is no score for this test.
84
36  What Kind of a Parent Are You (Would You Be)?
There are no correct answers to the test. Much will depend on the culture you have’
your background and the kind of upbringing you received from your parents. The
test is simply designed to get you to think about your role as a parent. You could do
the test together with your partner to see if you have similar ideas.
Part 1
Choose the most appropriate answer with regard either to how you actually are as a
parent (i.e. you already have children)’ or how you think a parent should be (i.e. if
you don't have any children).
	
1	 How regularly do you tell your child that you care about and love him/her?
	a)	 every day
	b)	 every week
	c)	 every month
	d)	 hardly ever
	
2	How much time do you set aside for listening to your child’s needs and
complaints?
	a)	 none
	
b)	 a few minutes every day
	c)	 a few minutes every week
	
d)	 a few minutes every month
	
3	 How often do you take your child to the cinema or to see some sports event?
	a)	 once a week
	
b)	 once a month
	c)	 once a year
	d)	 once in a blue moon
	
4	 Do you keep your child informed of what the family’s plans are for the future?
	a)	 yes’ nearly always
	
b)	 no’ not usually
	
5	 How often do you argue with your child?
	a)	 all the time
	
b)	 once a day
	c)	 once a week
	d)	 infrequently
	
6	 If you mistreat your child in any way or make some mistake’ do you always say
you’re sorry?
	a)	 nearly always
	b)	 generally
	c)	 not usually
85
Part 2
Decide which statements you agree with.
	 1.	 A child should always precede a request with 'please'.
	 2.	 A child should be free to choose their own friends.
	 3.	 A parent should give a child as many choices as possible.
	 4.	 A parent should restrict a child who is imposing themself on another adult.
	 5.	 A small child should be allowed to choose their own clothes and shoes.
	6.	A young child should always be given more than one chance to obey their
parents.
	 7.	 Adults should arbitrate all quarrels between children.
	 8.	 If a young child's needs go against those of an adult’ the child's should be given
priority.
	 9.	 In the case of a disciplinary issue’ a child should always be given the opportu-
nity to explain their point of view.
	
10.	 Whenever a parent places some restriction on a child’ the reason for the restric-
tion should be clearly explained.
score
There is no score for this test.
87
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
A. Wallwork, Test Your Personality, Easy English!,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67226-7_8
Chapter 8
Logic and Reasoning
37  Are You a Logical Thinker?
Glossary
therefore - adv. as a consequence
border - n. boundary between two nations
survivor - n. someone who does not die in an accident
bury - v. place a dead person in a grave
vegan - n. someone who eats no animal or dairy products at all
riddle - n. a question or statement intentionally phrased so as to require ingenuity
in ascertaining its answer or meaning
hard wired - adj. genetically determined
rely on v. count on, exploit
intuition  - n. instinctively knowing something without the use of rational
processes
underlying - adj. being or involving basic facts or principles
impeded - adj. made difficult or slow
set something aside - v. put to one side and ignore for the moment
conscious reasoning - n. thinking that is coherent and logical
88
37  Are You a Logical Thinker?
Read the statements in the first line of each question. Assume that these statements
are true. Then mark the conclusion that is the most logical. If in some cases two
conclusions are equally logical, mark them both. If none of the conclusions are logi-
cal, don’t mark any of them.
	
1	 Dogs are animals. All animals have legs. Therefore:
	a)	 Dogs have legs.
	
b)	 All dogs have legs.
	c)	 My neighbor has a dog. Her dog must have legs.
	2	 Mysecretaryisnotoldenoughtovote.Mysecretaryhaslongblondehair.Therefore:
	a)	 My secretary is a girl under the age of 18.
	
b)	 My secretary is under the legal age for voting.
	
3	 Good musicians play classical music. To be a good musician involves an incred-
ible amount of practice. Therefore:
	a)	 Classical music requires more practice than jazz.
	
b)	 Classical music requires at least as much practice as jazz.
	c)	 Good musicians listen to more classical than jazz music.
	
4	 A plane crashes on the border between two countries (A and B). Therefore:
	a)	 The survivors should be buried directly on the border.
	
b)	 The survivors should be taken back to their country of origin and buried there.
	c)	 The survivors should not be buried.
	
5	 You are in your car. There is a man crossing the road in front of you. If you stop
suddenly, a bus behind you will crash into the back of your car. If you don’t stop,
you may kill the man crossing the road. Therefore:
	a)	 You are driving too fast.
	
b)	 The bus is driving too fast.
	c)	 You will either be hit by the bus or you will hit the man.
	
6	 My teacher is a vegan and loves animals. Therefore:
	a)	 My teacher does not eat meat.
	b)	 My teacher does not eat meat and is a member of theWorldWildlife Fund (WWF).
Now decide which of the following affirmations are logical.
7	 Chris is very well informed - he watches the news every night.
8	 Martha gets up early every morning, therefore she is not lazy.
9	 Celine’s feet are so long that she has to put her jeans on over her head.
	
10	 Anna claims to have seen an iceberg that had completely melted.
answers
1) a 2) b 3) none are logical 4) survivors are living people, therefore none of the
answers are correct 5) c 6) a 7-10) all illogical
89
38  
Do You Think With Your Right Brain or Left Brain?
Glossary
jump to conclusions - exp. decide something very quickly without reasoning about it
get by - v. manage, succeed
gut reaction - n. immediate reaction not based on reasoning
deja vu - n. a feeling of having been somewhere or done something before
be supposed to - v. be (mistakenly) believed; commonly put forth or accepted as
true on inconclusive grounds
critical thinking - n. the process of using your mind to consider something carefully
discredited - adj. no longer accepted; brought into disrepute
score
This test was a mixture of real logic testing and silly riddles. Give yourself
one point for each question you answered correctly.
10 points
If you got all six answers correct Your brain is clearly hard wired to do tests
of logical thinking.
8 points
Rather than relying on intuition, you rely on facts and data. The result is that
you can see the real issue underlying a question on logic.
5-7 points
You were probably reasonably good at good algebra and word problems at
school, but you were never the top of the class.
3-4 points
Your decision-making process is rather impeded by emotional impulses. You
need to set these aside and just concentrate on the facts.
1-2 points
You are completely lacking in the sequential logical process required to solve
puzzles, even very simple ones. You are clearly relying far too much on your
opinions and intuitions.
0 points
Your life is ruled by intuitive thinking, but you cannot go through life without
applying any kind of conscious reasoning.
90

38  Do You Think With Your Right Brain or Left Brain?
Decide whether you agree with the following statements.
	 1.	 I am very proficient at making plans.
	2.	I sometimes jump to conclusions.
	 3.	 I like to put things in a sequence or order.
	 4.	 I like to daydream. I have vivid dreams at night.
	 5.	 I am logical and normally see the motivation behind people’s behavior.
	 6.	 I like the creative arts.
	 7.	 I can just about get by in several languages.
	 8.	 I don’t have a good conception of time.
	 9.	 I have no problem in describing my feelings.
	
10.	I often trust my gut reaction to situations rather than looking for hard
evidence.
	
11.	 I am objective in my opinions. I try to get the facts straight before making any
decisions.
	
12.	 I cry quite easily and my feelings are often hurt.
	
13.	 I am very patient and stick to a problem. I try various approaches before I get to
the solution.
	
14.	 I am a romantic.
	
15.	 I really like puzzles and word games
	
16.	 I quite often experience a sense of deja vu.
score
mostly odd numbers (1, 3, 5 etc)
You tend to think with your left brain. This means that you are supposed to
have superior skills in critical thinking, language, logic, numbers, and
reasoning.
mostly even numbers (2, 4, 6 etc)
You tend to think with your right brain, which is supposed to be best at expres-
sive and creative tasks. This means that you tend to be creative, intuitive and
able to express your emotions.You are supposedly good at recognizing faces,
playing musical instruments, and using color and images effectively.
Note: The left brain/right brain theory was originally proposed in the late
1970s but has since been somewhat discredited. Nevertheless it is a fun way
to distinguish between different ways of thinking.
91
39  How Versatile Are You?
Glossary
impromptu - adj. with little or no preparation
play sick - exp. pretend to be ill in order not to have to do something that you don’t
want to do
anecdote - n. short account of an incident
dull - adj. lacking in liveliness or interest
let yourself go - v. allow yourself to lose your inhibitions
obnoxious - adj. causing disapproval or protest
turn your hand at something - exp. be able to conduct a manual task or a job
jack of all trades - n. someone who can conduct any kind of (manual) job
struggle - v. find something difficult
cope - v. come to terms or deal successfully with
stuck - adj. caught; fixed
92
39  How Versatile Are You?
Decide whether you are or are not able to do the following.
	1.	Make impromptu speeches even on topics about which you have almost no
information.
	 2.	 Argue for ideas that you don’t actually believe in.
	3.	Play sick to get out of something.
	 4.	 Work for long periods of time without getting any feedback.
	 5.	 Tell a joke or anecdote and get all the details right.
	 6.	 Inject some life into a dull party.
	7.	Let yourself go and enjoy yourself a lot at a lively party.
	 8.	 Get along with loud-mouthed obnoxious people.
	 9.	 Play cards or board games.
	
10.	 Work to deadlines.
	
11.	 Take personal risks just for a laugh.
	
12.	 Clearly state your preference for something.
	
13.	 Break rules or violate convention.
	
14.	 Concentrate on research for an essay or project work.
	
15.	 Do two things at once, e.g. reading while listening to the news.
	
16.	 Imitate other people’s voices, accents, ways of walking etc.
	
17.	 Impress or entertain others.
	
18.	 Relate to other people’s feelings.
	
19.	 Change your mind.
	
20.	 Play in any position in a team sport.
score
16-20 points: 	 You can turn your hand to anything, a jack of all trades.
10-15 points: 	
You are willing and able to adapt your behavior, and this
increases your ability to communicate. You have confi-
dence, tolerance, empathy, positiveness and respect for
others.
6-10 points: 	
You struggle to find opportunities and are not particularly
interested in learning about new approaches.
0-5 points: 	
You find it extremely difficult to cope with changes in cir-
cumstances and to think about problems and tasks in
novel, creative ways. You are very much stuck in the way
you are.
93
40  How Responsible Are Your Decisions?
Glossary
slot machine - n. a machine that is used for gambling
reimburse - v. pay back for some expense incurred
charity - n. an institution set up to provide help to the needy
beggar - n. a person who lives by asking people in the street for money or food
lobster - n. a large marine crustacean which is a culinary delicacy
teller - n. an employee of a bank who receives and pays out money
94
40  How Responsible Are Your Decisions?
Decide whether the statements below are true (T) or false (F).
	
1.	 You put a coin in a slot machine. You play the game, lose (so you think) all your
money, and then the coin is returned to you. Rather than keep this money, you
should reimburse the slot machine company.
	
2.	 It is better to give to an organized charity than to a beggar, even though the char-
ity devotes half of all donations to payment of its own expenses.
	
3.	 A horse with a broken leg should be shot, for although curing the leg is possible,
it is a long expensive process, and hard on the horse – unless, of course, anesthet-
ics and pain-killers are used.
	4.	 Baked lobsters should not be ordered in a restaurant because the lobsters go into
the oven alive.
	5.	 Highway billboards contribute much to the national business income.
Nevertheless, they should be banned, because they mar the natural beauty of the
countryside.
	
6.	 If you have time, better to haggle with a tradesman than to let him overcharge
you.
	
7.	 You know that waiters depend on tips for a living. In a strange town, you go into
a restaurant and get very bad service. Nevertheless, you should be tolerant
enough to leave your usual tip instead of reducing it.
	
8.	 Leaving a bank, you discover that the teller has given you ten dollars too much.
The bank and staff are insured against losses. In such a case, you might as well
keep the money, since you did not steal it and it would deprive nobody.
key
1F, 2T, 3T, 4F, 5F, 6T, 7F, 8F
score
Give yourself 2 points for each incorrectly answered question, and 1 point for
each unanswered question. Add these points for your total score.
0-2
Superior (top 5% of population):
3-7
Good (next 15%)
8-13
Fair (next 30%)
14-16
Poor (lowest 50%):
95
41  How Well Do You Handle Your Finances?
Glossary
go into the red - exp. go under the permitted amount on your bank account
ruin - n. an irrecoverable state of destruction
outgoings - n. the opposite of income, i.e. money you spend on bills, household
items etc.
gamble - v. play games for money; take a risk in the hope of a favorable outcome
41  How Well Do You Handle Your Finances?
Decide which statements indicate someone who is handling their finances well (W)
and badly (B).
	 1.	 I have no idea how much money I have in my current account.
	 2.	 I tend to go into the red by the end of the month.
	 3.	 My bank does not charge me for my financial transactions.
	 4.	 I have three or more credit store cards.
	 5.	 I pay off the full amount of my credit card every month.
	 6.	 If I received an unexpected tax bill for $2500 I would be able to pay it.
	 7.	 If I were run over by a bus and had to spend the next six months in hospital, this
would lead to my financial ruin.
	 8.	 If my house and everything it in it was destroyed during a fire, although it might
be an emotional disaster it would not affect my finances.
	 9.	 I have no clear idea of what my monthly outgoings are (e.g. utilities bills, credit
card payments, standing orders, travel expenses).
	10.	 I never gamble.
score
Well: 3, 5, 6, 8, 10
Badly: 1, 2, 4, 7, 9
97
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
A. Wallwork, Test Your Personality, Easy English!,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67226-7_9
Chapter 9
Work
In this chapter all the glossaries are listed together below.
42  
What Kind of Job Would You Like?
plumber - n. person who installs and repairs water pipes
firefighter - n. a member of a fire department who tries to extinguish fires
enlisted soldier - n. man or woman who serves in an army
lumberjack - n. a person who cuts down trees
human resources manager - n. someone in charge of a group of team of people
that recruits, interviews, and trains employees as well as dealing with their individ-
ual issues
surgeon - n. a physician who specializes in surgery, i.e. cutting open the human
body to perform a medical intervention
midwife - n. a woman skilled in aiding the delivery of babies
broadcaster - noun someone who transmits a program or some information on the
radio or television
butcher - n. a person who slaughters meat for market; someone who sells meat
from a shop
oil rig - n. a structure with equipment for drilling an oil well; an oil platform
sewer - n. a waste pipe that carries away sewage or surface water
charity - n. a non-profit organization set up to provide help to the needy
98
43  
What Do You Want From a Job?
autonomy - n. independence
prestige - n. a high standing achieved through success
give credit when credit is due - exp. recognize an achievement when it deserves
praise
44  
What Kind of Job Would You Prefer?
on the spur of the moment - exp.- spontaneously
commission - n. fee for services rendered based on a percentage of an amount
received or collected or agreed to be paid (as distinguished from a salary)
hence - adv. as a result
45  
You and Your Job
get on well with - v. have a good relationship with
advice - n. a proposal for an appropriate course of action
retire - v. stop working because you have reached a certain age
46  Should You Change Job?
company profile - n. sketch/analysis representing the extent to which a company
exhibits various characteristics
take time off - exp. stop going to work for a limited period
resolution - n. plan to take a particular course of action
fulfilled - adj. satisfied
99
42  
What Kind of Job Would You Like?
This test will help your understand your attitude towards certain professions. There
are no correct answers, and hence there is no score.
	
1)	 The following jobs have been rated as ‘boring’ by many people but are all rela-
tively well paid. Which of them do you think in reality would not be so boring?
	a)	 accountant
	b)	 database administrator
	c)	 plumber
	d)	 technical writer
	e)	 insurance sales agent
	
2)	 Which of the following do you think would be the most stressful?
	a)	 air traffic controller
	b)	 simultaneous interpreter
	c)	 top sports player
	d)	 newpaper reporter
	e)	 inner-city high school teacher
	
3)	 Which job would be the most dangerous?
	a)	 firefighter
	b)	 taxi driver
	c)	 enlisted soldier
	d)	 lumberjack
	e)	 president of the USA
	
4)	 Which do you think would be the most rewarding?
	a)	 human resources manager
	b)	 speech-language pathologist
	c)	 CEO
	d)	 social worker
	e)	 teacher
	
5)	 Which jobs do you think contribute most to society and get paid well at the same
time?
	a)	 surgeon
	b)	 police officer
	c)	 midwife
	d)	 veterinarian
	e)	 deputy fire chief
100
	
6)	 Which job would be the most exciting?
	a)	 photojournalist
	b)	 broadcaster
	c)	 cook
	d)	 model
	e)	 actor
	
7)	 Which would be the most unpleasant?
	a)	 butcher
	b)	 waiter/waitress
	c)	 oil rig worker
	d)	 fisherman
	e)	 sewer inspector
	
8)	 Which would be your ideal job?
	a)	 lawyer
	b)	 engineer
	c)	 university professor
	d)	 doctor
	e)	 charity worker
101
43  
What Do You Want From a Job?
This test is designed for recent graduates to help them evaluate what they expect
from the world of work. Answer ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to the following questions.
I would like a job that ...
	 1.	 Provides opportunities to use the knowledge I gained at university and from my
previous experiences.
	 2.	 Guarantees that I will have a good level of personal autonomy.
	 3.	 Provides me with varied tasks.
	 4.	 Will give me a stable secure future.
	 5.	 Leaves me relatively free of supervision by others.
	 6.	 Permits me to help other people.
	 7.	 Gives me the possibility to exercise leadership.
	 8.	 Allows me to grow within the company.
	 9.	 Provides plenty of opportunities for travel.
	
10.	 Offers me the opportunity to manage others.
	
11.	 Gives me the time to have fun with colleagues.
	
12.	 Lets me exploit my competitive streak.
	
13.	 Helps me to improve my skills.
	
14.	 Enables me to conduct research.
	
15.	 Gives me the opportunity to earn a lot of money.
	
16.	 Allows me to be creative.
	17.	 Ensures prestige and social status.
	
18.	 Enables me to work with people not just things.
	
19.	 Ensures that I am given credit when credit is due.
	
20.	 Gives me a chance to see the results of my work being put into practice.
score
There is no score for this test.
102
44  
What Kind of Job Would You Prefer?
Look at the options below and decide which you would prefer: the first (F) or the
second (S).
	 1.	 Always eating familiar foods OR frequently trying strange foods.
	 2.	 Climbing a mountain for pleasure OR trying to save someone.
	 3.	 Compiling a short dictionary for financial reward OR writing a short story for
fun.
	 4.	 Eating special things because they are good for your health OR because you
enjoy them.
	 5.	 Going to an art gallery to learn about the exhibits OR just look at the exhibits.
	 6.	 Going to evening class to improve your qualification OR for fun.
	 7.	 (At work) Having your tasks set for you OR choosing your own activities.
	 8.	 Leisure activities that have a purpose OR which are just exciting.
	 9.	 Planning a holiday OR going on holiday.
	
10.	 Planning your leisure OR doing things on the spur of the moment.
	
11.	 Reading for information OR for fun.
	
12.	 Recounting an incident accurately OR exaggerating it for effect.
	
13.	 Ensuring that money gets saved well OR gets spent well.
	
14.	 Spending most of the time in just one place OR spending your life in many dif-
ferent places.
	
15.	 Staying in one job OR having many changes of job.
	
16.	 Taking holidays principally in the same places OR in many different places.
	
17.	 Winning a game easily OR playing a closely-fought game.
	
18.	 Work that earns promotion OR that you enjoy doing.
	
19.	 Working in the garden OR picking wild fruit in a wood.
	
20.	 Working to a fixed salary on a fixed contract OR on commission.
score
mainly f’s
Basically you are looking for a job that gives you security.You want to be able
to go home at night knowing that you will receive your salary at the end of the
month, a bonus at the end of the year, and a pension at the end of your career.
mainly s’s
You are driven by excitement and quickly get bored if a job (or anything else
in your life) becomes too routine.
103
45  
You and Your Job
The following questions are designed to get you to think about whether you:
•	 are happy with your job
•	 have suitable qualities to carry out your job
•	 could contribute more to your team and your company in general
•	 should perhaps think about changing jobs
Due to the exploratory nature of the questions, there are no correct answers, and
hence no score.
	 1	 What are the main responsibilities of your job?
	 2	 Who are you responsible to and who are you responsible for?
	 3	 Who do you get on best with at work?
	 4	 How has your job changed over the last few years?
	 5	 What areas of your job have been going well recently?
	 6	 What three things do you like most about your job and why?
	 7	 What factors affect your performance?
	 8	 How can your performance be measured?
	 9	 Have you ever done any training courses? If not, what kind of courses do you
think would be useful for you?
	
10	 What do you think are your best talents at work?
	
11	 What skills do you have that are not being used in your job?
	12	 What advice would you give your boss?
	
13	 What advice do you think your boss would give to you?
	
14	 If you could change three things about your job, what would you change?
	
15	 If you had not decided to follow this particular career, what path would you have
followed instead?
	
16	 How would you like to see your working relationships change or develop over
the next few years?
	
17	 Will you still be working in the same job in five years’ time?
	
18	 How do you see your future with your company?
	
19	 What career aspirations do you have?
	20	 When you retire or leave your present company, what do you hope you will have
achieved?
104
46  Should You Change Job?
	
1	 It is Sunday evening – how are you feeling?
	a	 I am feeling very excited about the week ahead.
	
b	 I usually don’t think about work at all until I’m there.
	c	 I am already starting to get depressed about returning to work.
	
2	 Your boss is going to be out of town for a few days, which of the following will
you do?
	a	 Relax and spend time chatting to friends on the phone.
	
b	 Take a longer than usual lunch break.
	c	 Carry on with your work, your boss’s absence makes no difference to you.
	
3	 What are your chances of promotion?
	a	 Actually they’re promoting me tomorrow.
	
b	 I am sure I’m going to be promoted within the next two years.
	c	 I’ll probably never be promoted.
	
4	 You are talking to someone at a party and they ask you what you do.
	a	 I’ll give them a brief company profile.
	
b	 I’ll tell them my job title and tell them what projects I am currently doing.
	c	 I’ll immediately try to change the subject.
	
5	 Someone tells you that your boss wants to speak to you.
	
a	Excellent. This will be an opportunity to discuss new ideas for future
projects.
	
b	 It will probably be about something fairly routine
	c	 I feel panicky and nervous.
	
6	 Where are you thinking of going on holiday this year?
	a	 Holidays – who needs them? I’ll probably take a few weekends off when I can.
	
b	 I’m going to have my usual two weeks in the summer and at the end of the year.
	c	 I am dreaming about my next holiday as I do this quiz.
	7	 What resolutions are you going to make for the coming months?
	a	 I’m going to try to improve my efficiency and productivity.
	
b	 I’m going to carry on as I am now.
	c	 I’m going to look for another job.
105
score
Score 3 points for any answer a, 2 for b and 1 for c
15 - 21
You are very optimistic and confident about both your work now and your
future.You’re fulfilled, contented and efficient but definitely not normal, how-
ever your family and friends might remark that need to forget work a little and
start to enjoy the rest of your life.
8 -14
Your job’s OK but it’s not the most important thing to you. Very healthy!
7 - 14
You need to fill in some job applications today and get out of there as fast as
possible!
107
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
A. Wallwork, Test Your Personality, Easy English!,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67226-7_10
Chapter 10
Effectiveness in Work Environment
In this chapter all the glossaries are listed together below.
47  
Do You Have Effective Meeting Skills?
scenario - n. situation.
whisper - v. speak softly without vibration of the vocal cords
48  Are You a Good Negotiator?
pocket money - n. money given to a child, generally on a weekly basis
household chores - n. cleaning and tidying activities around the house
would rather - v. would prefer
top job - n. very good job in high position
put up with something - v. cope with or manage some kind of adverse situation,
without actually trying to change it
fixed rate deal - n. amount of a charge or payment that is established at the begin-
ning of a job to be done and which binds the party providing the service
quote - n. estimate of cost
trample over someone - v. let another person do whatever he/she wants even though
this goes totally against your own best interests
108
49  How Well Do You Manage Your Time?
flit - v. change task/job frequently and only do the job rather superficially
get rid of - v. remove; eliminate
hold down a job - v. keep your job
50  Are You a Risk Taker?
package holiday - n. organized holiday via an agency
resort - n. frequently visited tourist location
dull - adj. lacking in liveliness or interest
be warned - v. be careful
go too far - exp. go beyond a norm in opinion or actions
51  How Ethical Are You?
civil servant - n. a person working in the public administration
performance-related pay - n. salary in relation to how well you carry out respon-
sibilities at work
109
47  
Do You Have Effective Meeting Skills?
The following scenarios all have four possible solutions. Rank each solution in
order from 1 (the best) to 4 (the least likely of success).
	
1	 You arrive early and find the meeting room is arranged differently from what you
would like. Do you?
	a)	 Phone the person responsible for the room and have it rearranged.
	
b)	 Rearrange the room yourself.
	
c)	 Wait until participants begin to arrive and ask someone to help you rearrange
things.
	
d)	 Leave the room as it is and complain later to the person responsible.
	
2	 You expect 10 participants at a 9.00 am meeting. It is 9.05 and only eight partici-
pants are present. No one has advised you of plans to arrive late. Do you?
	a)	 Begin the meeting with those present.
	
b)	 Phone the two missing people to see if they are coming.
	c)	 Wait another five minutes and then begin.
	
d)	 Ask those present to vote on whether to begin now or later.
	
3	 Some participants are not contributing to the meeting although they appear to be
listening. Do you?
	a)	 Monitor the situation to see if it continues.
	
b)	 Ask a non-contributing participant for an opinion or reaction.
	c)	 Ask the non-contributing participants why they are not involved.
	
d)	 Do nothing – they’ll speak up if they want to.
	
4	 You get a question you can’t answer. Do you?
	a)	 Redirect the question to the group.
	
b)	 Ignore the question.
	c)	 Ask the person who asked the question why he or she asked it.
	
d)	 Admit you don’t know the answer and move on.
	
5	 The group is getting away from the objective of the meeting. Do you?
	a)	 Let things continue as long as everyone seems interested.
	
b)	 Interrupt and bring the group back to the agenda.
	c)	 Interrupt and vote on whether or not to continue this discussion.
	
d)	 Take a break so participants can continue the discussion in their own time and
meet again when it is over.
	
6	 Two people, sitting together, keep whispering to each other. It has been going on
for some time. You find it distracting. Do you?
	a)	 Ask them to share their discussion with the group.
	
b)	 Ask them a content-related question to see if they have been listening.
	c)	 Stop talking and look at them.
	
d)	 Ignore it and hope they finish soon.
110
48  Are You a Good Negotiator?
	
1	 Your child wants an increase in pocket money as he/she says all his/her friends get
more than he/she does. Do you:
	a)	 refuse on principal
	
b)	 agree but suggest that he/she does a few household chores in return
	c)	 check with other parents before you agree
	
2	 You are in a very expensive shop and you see something you really want but you
don’t have enough money. Do you:
	a)	 stop wasting time and leave the shop
	
b)	 ask the assistant if there’s any chance of a discount
	c)	 go and get some more money
	
3	 Your work colleague asks you a big favor which you would rather not do. Do
you:
	a)	 refuse and explain your position
	
b)	 agree provided they agree to do something for you later on
	c)	 agree but complain about it later
	
4	 Your boss keeps giving you his/her work to do when he/she goes on holiday. Do
you:
	a)	 ask if anyone else can do it
	
b)	 do it happily and then ask for promotion
	c)	 do it because you have no choice
score
The recommended order of ranking for effective meetings is as follows:
	
1)	 a c b d
	
2)	 a c b d
	
3)	 a b c d
	
4)	 a d c b
	
5)	 b c a d
	
6)	 c b a d
Clearly the more often you choose the best solution, the more effective you
are in managing and taking part in meetings.
111
	
5	 You are on your way to an important meeting but your flight has been delayed
four hours. Do you:
	a)	 cancel your meeting and make a formal complaint to the airline
	
b)	 ask for an upgrade to first class as compensation for the delay
	c)	 wait in the lounge and do some work
	
6	 You have just been offered a top job but you are not happy with the salary. Do
you:
	a)	 turn down the offer and look else where
	
b)	 explain to your prospective employer why you are worth more
	c)	 accept the job and hope for a pay rise
	
7	 You have just bought a new computer which doesn’t work when you get it home.
Do you:
	a)	 take it back and ask for a refund
	
b)	 ask the vendor for a discount and to come and fix it at home
	c)	 take it back and exchange it for another one
	
8	 You are on a business trip and the hotel room you are staying in is noisy and dirty.
Do you:
	a)	 write a formal complaint and check out immediately
	
b)	 complain and ask for a discount
	c)	 put up with it and then forget to make a formal complaint
	
9	 You have a lot of building work to be done to your house but you are worried
about how long it might take and how much it will cost. Do you:
	a)	 decide not to have the work done until you can definitely afford it
	
b)	 make sure you get a fixed rate deal with the builders
	c)	 accept whichever builder gives the lowest quote
score
2 points for A’s, 3 for B’s and 1 for C’s.
21-27
You recognise the opportunity for negotiation everywhere, at home, shopping
and at work! If you achieve what you attempt to, you should be a great success.
15-20
You are decisive and assertive but not a negotiator. Try to be a bit more flexible
sometimes, you never know what it might lead to!
9-14
Oh dear! You need to stop letting people trample all over you.
112
49  How Well Do You Manage Your Time?
Part 1
Choose the most appropriate answer to questions 1-7.
	
1	 Do you try to complete one job at a time, instead of flitting from task to task?
	a)	 always
	b)	 usually
	c)	 occasionally
	d)	 seldom
	
2	 Do you feel there are not enough hours in a day to do what you want?
	a)	 very frequently
	b)	 generally
	c)	 often
	d)	 rarely
	
3	 Do you review your objectives and goals with your boss?
	a)	 once a month
	b)	 quite regularly
	c)	 a couple of times a year
	d)	 never
	
4	 When someone has done work for you incorrectly, do you correct it yourself and
say nothing?
	a)	 as a general rule
	
b)	 only if strictly necessary
	c)	 never
	
5	When casual visitors drop in your office, do you have difficulty getting rid of
them?
	a)	 nearly always
	
b)	 more often than not
	c)	 not that often
	d)	 extremely rarely
	
6	 Do you take care not to over-extend your coffee and lunch breaks?
	a)	 whenever possible
	b)	 generally speaking
	c)	 not usually
	
7	 Do you keep your desk clear of all papers except those you are working on?
	a)	 most of the time
	
b)	 not much of the time
113
Part 2
Answer yes or no to the following questions.
	 8	 Do you have a regular time each day for dealing with correspondence?
	 9	 Do you know what you want to be doing in five years’ time?
	
10	 Do you know what time of day you work most effectively and therefore use this
for working on your most difficult tasks?
score
Score one point for every ‘yes’ to questions 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10 and one point
for every ‘no’ to questions 2, 7, 8.
10-8: You are very much in control of your working life - ask for an immedi-
ate rise in salary.
7-5: You need to take more care in setting your priorities, otherwise your per-
formance is going to suffer.
4-0: You don’t have a clear idea of how to organize your time - it’s amazing
you can hold down your job. Have you thought about asking for help?
114
score
mostly yes’s
Your life is safe and secure but perhaps a little dull. Perhaps you should con-
sider doing something a little risky as it would definitely make things a bit
more interesting.
mostly no’s
You like to live an eventful and interesting life but be warned, one day you
might just go too far. A few safe decisions in your life could do you some
good.
yes’s and no’s
You are a good balance of risk taker and perfectionist.You should be success-
ful in your life as you’re both reliable and dynamic.
50  Are You a Risk Taker?
Answer ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to the following:
	 1	 You have never driven at more than 140 kph.
	 2	 Your ideal job offer would be a steady, salaried position with a pension scheme.
	 3	 You feel most comfortable when the people around you are dressed similarly.
	 4	 You think insurance schemes are always essential.
	 5	 You often go on package holidays to popular resorts.
	 6	 You keep all your documents in a safe place.
	 7	 If you won a lot of money, you would put most of it in a savings account.
	 8	 You always check the weather forecasts.
	 9	 You rarely do spontaneous and last minute things.
	
10	 You would never consider working in another country.
	
11	 You never disagree with your boss.
	
12	 You always prepare well for meetings.
	
13	 You would never buy shares in hi-tech companies.
	
14	 You have more than one anti-virus program on your PC.
	
15	 You don’t give credit card details over the web.
	
16	 You rarely try different exotic sounding foods.
	
17	 You always make back-ups of files.
	
18	 You hardly ever arrive at a hotel without having booked.
	
19	 You never use the Internet at work for personal use.
	
20	 At work you never say you’ve done something when in reality you haven’t done it.
115
51  How Ethical Are You?
Choose what you think is the most appropriate answer.
	
1	 You are a civil servant and arrive at your office late due to bad traffic to find several
people waiting for you on routine business. One of these is a relative of yours.
	
a)	you deal with your relative first, even if many of the people arrived before
him/her
	
b)	 you see people in the order that they came
	
2	 You are a manager and have some software to monitor every call that is made on
your company’s phones. You find yourself listening to a personal phone call.
	a)	 you take notes and use them for office gossip
	
b)	 you stop listening immediately and later, if necessary, ask the person not to
make personal calls again
	
3	You are away on business with a colleague. You see them at your host’s desk
reading some confidential research on some new equipment.
	a)	 you quickly make a photocopy
	
b)	 you are tempted to read it but decide not to
	
4	 You have just heard some news that annual sales figures are slightly down. This
could affect your performance-related pay.You have to produce a report for your
manager.
	a)	 you alter some figures so your performance looks better
	
b)	 you present all the figures as accurately as possible
	
5	 You are being interviewed to do some work for which you don’t have much expe-
rience. You want the job very much.
	a)	 you invent some information about a few related jobs you’ve done in the past
	
b)	 you explain how you have a lot of talents which compensate for your lack of
experience
score
all A’s:
You are an honest person and a credit both to yourself and to your company.
one B or more
You are not a very trustworthy person.
all B’s
You should be in prison!
117
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
A. Wallwork, Test Your Personality, Easy English!,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67226-7_11
Chapter 11
Managerial Skills
In this chapter all the glossaries are listed together below.
52  
Do You Have Managerial Potential?
say what’s on your mind - exp. express what you really think about something
53  Would You Be an Ethical Leader?
sticks and stones may break my bones - exp. your violence could affect me physi-
cally, but nothing that you say to me will injure me
the end justifies the means - exp. a good outcome excuses any wrongs committed
to achieve it
entrepreneur - n. someone who organizes a business venture and assumes the risk
for it
tread on - v. treat badly so that you can continue on your chosen course of action
call into question - exp. dispute the subject matter at issue
ecological - adj. characterized by the interdependence of living organisms in an
environment
take the initiative - exp. show readiness to embark on new ventures
fair - adj. just; acceptable
118
54  
Would You Make a Good Manager?
praise - v. compliment someone who has done something of merit
work out - v. find, investigate
55  
How Well Does Your Boss Know You?
sarcastic - adj. expressing ridicule
spice - n. something more interesting than what is currently available
bounce back - v. return to normality after some negative event
56  Do You Have a Manager’s Approach to Work?
stick to something - v. continue on a course of action without being tempted to give
up
awareness - n. inner knowledge
tackle - v. accept as a challenge and deal with
challenging - adj. requiring full use of your abilities or resources
to-do list - n. a list of tasks to be completed
outcome - n. result
pointer - n. indicator
take a stand against exp. oppose
thrive v. need and enjoy
praise - n. expression of approval and commendation
merit - n. admirable quality or attribute
touch - v. affect on an emotional or intellectual level
line of duty - n. acting in conformity with your responsibilities
show up for - v. be present at
make the grade - exp. be of a sufficiently high standard
119
52  
Do You Have Managerial Potential?
Below is a list of items that discriminate between those managers who are rated as
highly successful by their bosses, peers and staff, and those managers who are not
viewed as particularly successful. These items were part of a large study carried out
in the US by Wendy Williams and Robert Sternberg.
To see if you have managerial potential, mark the statements true (T) or false (F).
1	
I think a good manager should know how to do the jobs of everyone who works
for him or her.
2	
I do not make decisions until I know every fact and figure.
3	
When I see my boss about a problem, I describe the situation and wait for her to
propose a solution.
4	 I believe that some problems simply cannot be solved.
5	
Instead of telling my employees all about my goals and expectations, I tell them
purely what they need to know in order to do their job.
6	
I act on most issues and make most decisions on my own without consulting my
boss.
7	 I state my opinion on issues fully and honestly – I say what’s on my mind.
8	 I make my own rules and do things my own way.
9	
When dealing with people from outside the company on work issues, I am hon-
est about my company’s situation.
10	I make most decisions quickly.
score
Successful managers disagreed with statements 1-5, and agreed with state-
ments 6-10.
120
53  Would You Be an Ethical Leader?
Below are some commonly used proverbs and idioms in English. Decide which
ones you agree with.
1	 He who hesitates is lost.
2	 Everyone has their price.
3	 There’s no pleasure without pain.
4	 Money makes the world go around.
5	 The end justifies the means.
6	 Imagination is a poor substitute for experience.
7	
It is better to know something about everything than everything about
something.
8	 Never judge someone from their clothes.
9	 Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me.
10	You cannot change human nature.
score
If you agree with statements 1-5, you might become a very successful entre-
preneur but you will tread on a lot of people on the way up, be very unscru-
pulous, and probably adopt environmentally unsustainable business
practices.
Statements 6-10 are highly subjective, but many experts would agree with
statements 7 and 8, but call into question statements 6, 9 and 10.
An ethical leader is like to have the following characteristics (these are in no
particular order).
Ethical leaders ...
•	 lead by example
•	 aim to produce products and services that are sustainable from an environ-
mental and ecological point of view
•	 are honest both with themselves and with the people they lead
•	 encourage members of their team to take the initiative and to work together
•	 have a great sense of what is fair and just irrespective of age, gender, eth-
nicity, nationality, or any other factor
•	 respect others and value their contributions
121
54  
Would You Make a Good Manager?
1	 When communicating with your staff, what is most important? Being a good:
a)  listener b) speaker c) writer
2	
You have just been given a new project to manage. Which is your most important
role?
a) 
motivating the team b) setting team objectives c) establishing rules and
regulations
3	 In managing relations with employees, is it better to tell them
a)  everything b) only what you think they need to know c) nothing
4	 Most management decisions are based on:
a)  intuition b) hard facts c) pressure from higher levels
5	 On an average day, what should a manager spend the most time doing?
a) supporting and praising team members b) working out ways to improve effi-
ciency c) finding errors
6	 The end justifies the means:
a)  rarely b) generally c) always
7.	
What is the right ratio between staying at your desk and walking around the
office getting feedback?
a)  30:70 b) 60:40 c) 90:10
8	
How much of being a good manager comes from qualifications and training
rather than experience?
a)  20% b) 50% c) 75%
score
According to many US business gurus, the fundamental role of a manager is
to be constantly in touch with his / her team and to motivate and support them.
Such qualities derive from experience rather than training. So, following this
approach to management, score one point for each a).
7-8: You are heading for a top managerial position.
5-6: You would make a reasonably good middle manager.
3-4: You may make project leader, but you are unlikely to get good results.
0-2: Don’t choose management.
122
55  
How Well Does Your Boss Know You?
How do you think your boss answer the following statements in relation to you?
Answer ‘yes’ or ‘no’.
	 1.	 I tend to be envious of the success of others.
	 2.	 I never make sarcastic remarks about other people.
	 3.	 I tend to leave things to the last minute.
	 4.	 I tend to find many people boring and can predict exactly what they are going
to say.
	 5.	 I tend to let the escalator carry me rather than walking myself.
	 6.	 I believe that an element of risk adds spice to life.
	 7.	 I like to make my own decisions regardless of what other people say.
	 8.	 I find it pointless to plan things way in advance as they always tend to change.
	 9.	 I am never persuaded by illogical arguments.
	
10.	 I help others whether they help me or not.
	
11.	 I can listen to others without interrupting them.
	
12.	 I don’t enjoy having to make decisions.
	
13.	 If something goes wrong for me I always bounce back.
	
14.	 I am concerned about what other people think about me.
score
There is no score for this test.
123
56  Do You Have a Manager’s Approach to Work?
Answer ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to the following questions.
	 1.	 Achieving my aims, however long it takes, is very important to me.
	 2.	 Acquiring knowledge for its own sake has long-term benefits.
	 3.	 After I have done something important, I still feel I could have done better.
	 4.	 Being able to develop a plan and stick to it is the most important part of every
project.
	 5.	 Being organized is more important to me than being adaptable.
	 6.	 Generally speaking, once I’ve made a decision I know it’s the right one.
	 7.	 I am often motivated to work by thoughts of long-term outcomes.
	 8.	 I enjoy working in situations involving competition with others.
	 9.	 I feel that I have an accurate awareness of my own abilities.
	
10.	 I like the kind of work that requires attention to detail.
	
11.	 I see a piece of work as consisting of a number of stages.
	
12.	 I tend to tackle a problem by separating it into its smaller component parts.
	
13.	 I tend to think about the positive rather than the negative consequences when
I’m considering a course of action.
	
14.	 I usually think about a problem or piece of work for some time before actually
starting in on it.
	
15.	 I would not change the way I do things just in order to please someone or win
their favor.
	
16.	 I would rather do something at which I feel confident and relaxed than some-
thing which is challenging and difficult.
	
17.	 I’m attracted by the idea of spending a lot of time researching a project or piece
of work.
	
18.	 It annoys me when other people perform better than I do.
	
19.	 It is important for me to do work as well as I can, even if it isn’t popular with
my co-workers.
	
20.	 It is sometimes hard for me to go on with my work if I am not encouraged.
	
21.	 Keeping my options open is more important than having a to-do list.
	
22.	 Logic is usually more important than following one’s heart when it comes to
making important decisions.
	
23.	 Part of my enjoyment in doing things is improving my past performance.
	
24.	 The most useful feedback on my work is that which gives me pointers for the
future.
	
25.	 Work-related ideas often run through my head so that I cannot sleep.
124
score
mainly yes
You fully believe in where you, your job and your company are going. You
know how you to get what you want, and you prove this every day by consis-
tently seeking to do the right thing. You like to find out what your colleagues
and your bosses are thinking, the direction they are planning to go in. And if
you don’t agree with that direction or with a particular decision, you may
occasionally take a stand against it.You arrive at work energetic and enthusi-
astic and immediately set yourself a goal for the day. You have high expecta-
tions for yourself.You thrive on learning new things and constantly search for
greater success.
If you do not already hold a managerial position, you soon will.
a mix of yes and no
You do not yet have a clear idea of what your company culture is about: the
company, its customers, its mission. As a consequence you spend some of
your time simply working for yourself rather than for something greater than
yourself. You react well to praise and recognize the merit in others, but it
doesn’t really touch you and you don’t display any great interpersonal skills.
As a result you are not particularly productive, but occasionally surprise both
yourself and your company with a great idea.
You make may lower management position, but are unlikely to progress
further.
mainly no
You don’t really feel part of your company. You hesitate to voice your opin-
ions or feelings in either a group setting or in private. If something doesn’t fall
in the line of your duty, you tend not to do it. You are also someone who may
be reluctant to follow instructions.You do not happily accept any task or proj-
ect, and your goal is simply to get by rather than try to exceed expectations.
Although you may derive some joy from the time you spend with your co-
workers and superiors, your main motivator to work is money. The longer you
work for your current company, the less likely you are to show up for work on
time and to keep deadlines.
You have no plans to become a manager, and even if you had, you would be
highly unlikely to make the grade.
125
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
A. Wallwork, Test Your Personality, Easy English!,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67226-7_12
Chapter 12
Miscellaneous
In this chapter all the glossaries are listed together below.
57  What Are Your Daily Habits?
blush - v. when your face turns red in embarrassment or shame
irritated - adj. aroused to impatience or anger
annoyed - adj. bothered by petty annoyances
grind your teeth - exp. crunch/rub together your teeth
nightmare n. unpleasant dream
trouble - n. in a bad situation that you have created yourself
mirror - n. polished surface that reflects your image back to you
stretched out - adj. with your muscles extended
folded adj. with your arms placed inside each other
briskly - adv. quickly
wash up - v. clean the dishes
126
58  How Mature Are You?
commitment n. something that you have agreed to do (either for yourself or
others)
weigh - v. take into account; balance
ton of stuff - n. with considerable knowledge about a lot of subjects
inner journey - n. a journey of self exploration with the ultimate goal of knowing
yourself better and thereby improving your life in general
core - n. the essential part
be lacking in - v. not having a sufficient amount of
59  Are You Caught in the Web?
addiction - n. an abnormally strong desire due to being dependent on something
that is psychologically or physically habit-forming
quorum (plural: quorums or quora) n. online discussion group
trading - n. buying or selling securities or commodities
cyberspace - n. a worldwide network of computer networks
obsessed - adj. showing excessive or compulsive concern with something
60  Are You a Sensible Shopper?
load - n. a large amount of
stick to - v. continue as you have always done
hardwearing - adj. long lasting
refund - n. money returned to a payer
61  
What Class of Airplane Passenger Are You?
There is no glossary for this test.
127
57  What Are Your Daily Habits?
Rate how regularly you do the following: always, usually, often, sometimes, rarely,
never.
Note: There is no specific score for this test. The test is simply designed to help you
learn some very every day vocabulary.
	1.	Blush.
	 2.	 Clear up and clean the house when you know guests are coming.
	 3.	 Cook meals for the others.
	 4.	 Dream that you are falling.
	5.	Get really irritated when you’re working hard and concentrating on
something.
	6.	Get so annoyed that you break something.
	7.	Grind your teeth.
	8.	Have nightmares.
	 9.	 Iron your clothes.
	
10.	 Keep quiet if you are in trouble.
	
11.	 Laugh loudly when someone says something that amuses you.
	
12.	 Leave your bed unmade.
	
13.	 Leave the lights on when you leave a room.
	
14.	 Look in the mirror before leaving the house.
	
15.	 Show impatience with family members who do not do things in the way you
think they should be done.
	
16.	 Sit with your legs stretched out straight.
	
17.	 Spend a long time in the bathroom.
	
18.	 Stand with your arms folded when talking to people.
	
19.	 Walk briskly with long steps.
	20.	 Wash up.
128
58  How Mature Are You?
How true are the following statements of you? a) very b) quite c) not very
1	 I am fully aware of my own strengths and weaknesses.
2	 I am able to keep long-term commitments.
3	I weigh the possible consequences of a future action that I might take and think
about how this action might affect others.
4	 I am able to see things from more than just my own point of view.
5	 I am genuinely happy for the successes of others.
6	 I am aware of how little I understand about certain situations.
7	 I tend to save more than I spend.
8	 I know when patience is called for, and I am able to apply it.
9	 I try not take things too personally and to be objective.
10	 Even if I don’t agree with someone, I remain civil.
11	 I can learn from mistakes.
12	 I don’t have a problem admitting that I am wrong
13	 I tend not to immediately opt for easy solutions, as I prefer to look for long-term
solutions.
14	 I am able to respect other people, even if they offend me or I do not like them
for some reason.
15	 I recognize my limits.
129
score
Becoming a mature person is, or should be, a key aspiration for everyone.
Maturity is not simply acquired with age: an elderly person is not necessarily
mature, and a person who knows a ton of stuff is not necessarily mature.
Maturity is not merely related to our experiences of life. Instead it has a rela-
tionship with our inner journey, with the experiences of our inner life. The
more you look within yourself, the more you increases your level of maturity.
Only when you have reached the very core of your being, will you really be
mature.
Emotional intelligence and maturity, are closely linked. A mature person has
better emotional skills, knows himself / herself well, and thus has the tools
even to access the feelings of others by establishing empathy, i.e. the capacity
to decide what to do and what not to do, taking into account not only your own
instincts, but also of people and situations that you have around you.
mostly A’s
You have already reached a very high level of maturity and are likely to com-
mand the respect, love and admiration of those around you.
mostly B’s
You are still on your journey to maturity, with time and experience helping
you on your way.
mostly C’s
You are clearly lacking in confidence and really need to understand yourself
better.
130
59  Are You Caught in the Web?
Test your level of addiction to the Internet.
Rate yourself using this scale
0 = not true at all 1 = quite true 2 = very true
	 1.	 You are constantly shopping online.
	 2.	 You always book your plane tickets over the web.
	 3.	 You often stay on the web longer than you had intended.
	 4.	 You always check your social media notifications first thing in the morning.
	 5.	 Your work suffers because of the amount of time you spend navigating.
	 6.	 You have more ‘virtual’ friends than you have ‘real’ friends.
	 7.	 You spend many evenings a week taking part in chat rooms or answering ques-
tions in quorums.
	 8.	 You pass a lot of time at auctions or trading online.
	 9.	 Your family complain about how much time you spend in front of the screen.
	
10.	 If you are honest with yourself, you prefer cyberspace to the real world.
score
15-20
You live very much a virtual life. Think of the possible psychological damage
that this may be causing you.
10-14
You are two steps from becoming obsessed with the cyber world - get a life!
6-10
You have a practical sense of what the web has to offer.
0-5
You live very much in the real world and have decided to reject much of what
the web has to offer.
131
60  Are You a Sensible Shopper?
	
1.	 You go into a clothing store. Do you?
	
a.	 Buy exactly what it was you were looking for and no more.
	
b.	 Come out with far more than you had planned to buy.
	
2.	 You are looking for something on Amazon. Do you?
	
a.	 Click away and not worry too much about the cost of your trolley.
	
b.	 Keep a careful note of what you put in your trolley.
	
3.	 You are in a supermarket. Do you?
	
a.	 Buy a whole load of items just because they are on special offer.
	b.	 Stick to what you really need.
	
4.	 When buying something at the supermarket. Do you?
	
a.	 Always check the price of similar products before making a decision.
	
b.	 Never even look at the price tag.
	
5.	 When purchasing a new pair of shoes, what are your main criteria? The shoes
should be:
	a.	 Fashionable.
	
b.	 The right size and hardwearing.
	
6.	 When buying food, do you always look at the sell-buy date?
	a.	 Yes.
	b.	 No.
	
7.	 When you have bought an electrical item do you always keep the guarantee and
archive it?
	a.	 Yes.
	b.	 No.
	
8.	 Do you tend to buy items at stores where they offer to refund you if you are not
satisfied with your purchase?
	a.	 Yes.
	b.	 No.
score
Sensible: 1 a, 2 b, 3 b, 4 a, 5 b, 6 a, 7 a, 8 a
Rather irresponsible: 1 b, 2 a, 3 a, 4 b, 5 a, 6 b, 7 b, 8 b
132
61  
What Class of Airplane Passenger Are You?
1	 Do you talk to the person sitting next to you?
a	 Always. I like to spend the whole journey chatting.
b	 Only if he/she wants to chat.
c	 I prefer not to.
2	 What is your opening sentence likely to be?
a	 Are you travelling on business?
b	 Do you mind if I look at your newspaper?
c	 Do you speak English?
3	 How much noise do you make during the flight?
a	 A lot especially when I turn the pages of my newspaper.
b	 I’m as quiet as a mouse.
c	 It depends on what music and movies I have on my phone.
4	 How much do you eat and drink during your flight?
a	 As much as possible.
b	 Very little as I hate disturbing other people when I go to the toilet.
c	 It depends on the quality.
5	 How nervous are you during takeoff and landing?
a	 Very, I need a lot of reassurance from the cabin crew.
b	 Generally I don’t notice either.
c	 It depends on how old the plane looks.
6	 What items are you likely to carry with you?
a	 Tablet, magazines, newspapers.
b	 Just an umbrella if I’m going to the UK.
c	 A face mask and ear plugs.
7	 How well do you sleep on planes?
a	 Sometimes I sleep but I also snore.
b	 Very well thank you.
c	 It depends on the person sitting next to me.
133
score
predominantly a’s
You are a nightmare to sit next to on a plane. You make too much noise, talk
too much, and may also be quite nervous.
predominantly b’s
You are the ideal person to sit next to on a plane. You don’t want to disturb
anyone - neither the person next to you or the other passengers.
predominantly c’s
You are a good person to sit next to. You keep yourself to yourself when nec-
essary, but are also happy to have a conversation where appropriate.
135
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
A. Wallwork, Test Your Personality, Easy English!,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67226-7
Appendix 1

Alphabetical Glossary of the Whole Book
Below is a glossary in alphabetical order of all the words and expressions that are
highlighted in italics in Chapters 1-12. This glossary is then followed in Appendix
2 by vocabulary tests grouped by the grammatical part of speech (noun, verb,
adjective).
accomplish v. gain with effort
addiction n. an abnormally strong desire due to being dependent on something
that is psychologically or physically habit-forming
addictive adj. making you unable to stop (typically of a bad habit)
adverse adj. contrary to your interests
advice n. a proposal for an appropriate course of action
aid v. help
Airbnb n. online marketplace and homestay network enabling people to list or
rent short-term accommodation in residential properties
alienate v. arouse indifference or hostility in where there had formerly been
harmony, understanding, affection, or friendliness
allure v. entice or attract through personal charm
anecdote n. short account of an incident
annoyed adj. bothered by petty annoyances
anxiety n. unpleasant emotion that is experienced in anticipation of some
(usually ill-defined) misfortune
application n. request for employment or admission to a school/college
argument n. heated discussion (i.e. where there is strong disagreement)
ask someone out v. find out whether someone is interested in having a relationship by
asking them if they would like to go out for a drink, go to the cinema
with you etc.
assignment n. exercise, task, essay
autonomy n. independence
136
aware adj. having or showing knowledge or understanding; conscious;
attentive to
awareness n. inner knowledge
back of your mind
(be at the)
exp. a feeling or thought that is constantly with you
bargain n. an advantageous purchase
bark v. the loud noise made by a dog
be better off exp. be in a better position/situation
be dealt a bad hand exp. be given a series of negative factors to deal with
be lacking in v. not having a sufficient amount of
be supposed to v. be (mistakenly) believed; commonly put forth or accepted as true on
inconclusive grounds
be warned v. be careful
bear a grudge exp. maintain resentment or anger against someone for a past offense
bedraggled adj. in a very bad condition
beggar n. a poor person who lives by asking people in the street for money or
food
beneath adv. under
billboard n. advertising space found alongside roads
bitter adj. marked by strong resentment or cynicism
blame v. . attribute the responsibility to someone for something that has gone
wrong
blast v. play music at a very high volume
bloated adj. with a very full stomach
blush v. when your face turns red in embarrassment or shame
bonds, stocks, shares n. forms of financial investment
border n. boundary between two nations
bounce back v. return to normality after some negative event
boundary n. a limit past which people should not cross
brass band n. orchestra that plays brass instruments (i.e. wind instruments that
consist of a brass tube)
breathless adj. able to breathe only with difficulty
bright side of life
(look on the)
exp. always see the positive aspects of a situation
briskly adv. quickly
broadcaster noun someone who transmits a program or some information on radio
or television
bulldozing adj. aggressive
bullfight n. spectacle where a matador baits and (usually) kills a bull in an arena
before many spectators
bullying n. act of intimidating a weaker person to make them do something
burden n. load, weight
burp v. expel wind noisily from the stomach through the mouth
bury v. place a dead person in a grave
butcher n. a person who slaughters meat for market; someone who sells meat
from a shop
buzzing adj. noisy like the sound of a bee
Appendix 1
137
call into question exp. dispute the subject matter at issue
captivated adj. filled with wonder and delight
cardigan n. knitted jacket that is fastened up the front with buttons or a zipper
casino n. place for gambling and entertainment
cast one’s vote v. officially express your preference for a particular candidate or option
challenging adj. requiring full use of your abilities or resources
charades n. game in which participants act out a phrase for others to guess
charity n. an institution set up to provide help to the needy; a foundation
created to promote the public good
charity flag day n. an activity to raise money for an institution set up to provide help to
the needy
cheap and cheerful exp. despite not being expensive, an object or place that is sufficiently
pleasant
check up on v. investigate, verify
cheer up v. become more content after being sad
cheer yourself up v. make yourself feel happier after a negative event
cheery adj. bright and pleasant; promoting a feeling of cheer
chess n. an ancient board game for two players who move their 16 pieces
according to specific rules
chuckle v. laugh quietly or with restraint
civil servant n. a person working in the public administration
civil service n. public administration, government work
clapping n. a demonstration of approval by repeatedly putting your hands
together to make a noise
come out on top v. get very good results, better than others
comfort zone n. a situation where you feel safe and at ease
comfortable adj. free from stress, accepting
commission n. fee for services rendered based on a percentage of an amount
received or collected or agreed to be paid (as distinguished from a
salary)
commitment n. something that you have agreed to do (either for yourself or others)
company profile n. sketch/analysis representing the extent to which a company exhibits
various characteristics
compatible adj. able to exist and perform in harmonious or agreeable combination
conscious reasoning n. thinking that is coherent and logical
consistency n. always following the same logic and behavior
continental breakfast n. in British English used to specify a (simple) breakfast that is typical
of Europe as opposed to the characteristic ‘full English breakfast’
continuum n. succession in which no one part is distinct or distinguishable from
another
convenient adj. suitable
cope v. come to terms or deal successfully with
core n. the essential part; heart
count v. rely on
create a fuss v. create a state of agitation or an angry disturbance
critical thinking n. the process of using your mind to consider something carefully
crop up v. take place, occur, happen
Appendix 1
138
croupier n. someone who collects and pays bets at a gaming table
crowdfunding n. practice of funding a project or venture by raising monetary
contributions from a large number of people
curse word n. offensive word used to express anger or annoyance
cut corners exp. not complete tasks as they should be, not act in a proper way
cut off v. . end
cyberspace n. a worldwide network of computer networks
dare n. a challenge to do something dangerous
day dream n. thoughts about things you’d like to do, or places where you’d like to
be, or people you’d like to be with
decline v. refuse politely
decorating n. painting and furnishing your house/flat/room
defy v. go against
deja vu n. a feeling of having been somewhere or done something before
deluded adj. believing that you have a particular quality when in fact you
probably don’t
demure adj. affectedly modest or shy especially in a playful or provocative way
deny v. declare untrue
destroy v. damage irreparably
dexterity n. very good at using one’s hands
digestible adj. capable of being understood
discredited adj. no longer accepted; brought into disrepute
discreet adj. unobtrusive
disposition n. your usual mood
diurnal adj. occurring every day
do your bit exp. make your contribution
domestic chores n. cleaning and tidying activities around the house
drama n. a highly (and probably unnecessarily) emotional episode
drawer n. a box-like container in a piece of furniture
dreadful adj. exceptionally bad or displeasing
dull adj. lacking in liveliness or interest
ear plugs n. device to put in your ears to stop external sound from penetrating
your ears
early bird n. someone who gets up very early in the morning
ecological adj. characterized by the interdependence of living organisms in an
environment
edge n. limit
elderly adj. advanced in years
energize v. inject with energy
energy draining adj. lowering your levels of energy
enhance v. increase; make better or more attractive
enlisted soldier n. man or woman who serves in an army
enrolled adj. registered
entail v. involve
entrepreneur n. someone who organizes a business venture and assumes the risk for it
equate v. be equivalent, similar, equal, or analogous to something else
exotic adj. characteristic of another (apparently more exciting) place or part of
the world
Appendix 1
139
extra-terrestrial n. a creature from another planet
face up to exp. address a problem and try to deal with it
failure n. the opposite of success
fair adj. just; acceptable
fair amount exp. adequate; considerable quantity
fairly adv. to a moderately sufficient extent or degree
fairy godmother n. someone imaginary who helps you when you are in a difficult
situation
fancy dress party n. party where people wear costumes
figment of the
imagination
n. a contrived or fantastic idea
fill someone with
delight
exp. provide a feeling of extreme pleasure or satisfaction
fire practice n. the act of simulating and preparing for a possible fire
firefighter n. a member of a fire department who tries to extinguish fires
fixed rate deal n. amount of a charge or payment that is established at the beginning of
a job to be done and which binds the party providing the service
flag someone down v. stand at a roadside attempting to stop a passing car in order to be
helped
flights (of stairs) n. section of a staircase between one floor and another
flit v. change task/job frequently and only do the job rather superficially
flu n. common and contagious viral disease (short form of ‘influenza’)
flustered adj. thrown into a state of agitated confusion
folded adj. with your arms placed inside each other
fool yourself v. give yourself the wrong impression
foul adj. unpleasant
fraud n. deliberate dishonest behavior intended to gain an advantage
fret v. worry
fruit machine n. mechanical device for gambling, typically found in bars, cinemas
fulfilled adj. satisfied
fun fair n. amusement park
gamble v. play games for money; take a risk in the hope of a favorable outcome
gambling n. the act of playing for stakes (money) in the hope of winning
gentle adj. having or showing a kindly or tender nature
get away with v. manage to do something without any of the foreseen negative
consequences
get by v. manage, succeed
get on well with v. have a good relationship with
get rid of v. remove; eliminate
get someone down v. disappoint, make sad/depressed
ghost n. supernatural appearance of a dead person
gift n. a present
give credit when
credit is due
exp. recognize an achievement when it deserves praise
glide v. move smoothly and effortlessly
go blind v. enter a situation with your eyes closed, i.e. without really thinking
about what you are doing
go into the red exp. go under the permitted amount on your bank account
Appendix 1
140
go too far exp. go beyond a norm in opinion or actions
gossip n. light informal (but potentially malicious) conversation for social
occasions
gossip v. speak about others behind their back and reveal secrets or intimacies
grind your teeth exp. crunch/rub together your teeth
guilty adj. feeling responsible for something that you have done (or not done)
gut reaction n. immediate reaction not based on reasoning
haggle v. negotiate over a price, terms of an agreement
hang on to v. keep
hard wired adj. genetically determined
hardwearing adj. long lasting
harmless adj. unlikely to harm or disturb anyone
harness v. control; keep in check
haunted adj. apparently inhabited by a ghost
hazard n. potential danger
hell n. a cause of difficulty and suffering
hence adv. as a result
hideous adj. extremely ugly
hiking n. a long walk for exercise or pleasure
hitch v. travel by getting a free ride from someone
hold down a job v. keep your job
horn n. a noise made by the driver of an automobile to give warning
household chores n. cleaning and tidying activities around the house
human resources
manager
n. someone in charge of a group of team of people that recruits,
interviews, and trains employees as well as dealing with their individual
issues
humility n. the opposite of arrogance
hurl abuse v. utter a rude expression intended to offend
hurry (be in a) v. have a very limited amount of time
idealistic adj. believing in some (possibly unattainable) morals, values and
principles
impeded adj. made difficult or slow
impromptu adj. with little or no preparation
in a rush exp. needing to do something quickly, under pressure to do something
ineffectual adj. lacking in power or forcefulness
inner journey n. a journey of self exploration with the ultimate goal of knowing
yourself better and thereby improving your life in general
inner self n. your personal, internal identity
intriguing adj. capable of arousing interest or curiosity
introspective adj. given to examining your sensory and perceptual experiences
intuition n. instinctive knowing without the use of rational processes
intuitive adj. obtained through intuition rather than from reasoning or
observation
irritated adj. aroused to impatience or anger
jack of all trades n. someone who can conduct any kind of (manual) job
jangle v. shake a metallic container (in this case a money collection tin) in
order to attract attention
juicy adj. suggestive of sexual impropriety
jump to conclusions exp. decide something very quickly without reasoning about it
Appendix 1
141
just for the hell of it exp. just for fun
keep something back v. refrain from mentioning
keep your cool exp. maintain your calm in a difficult situation
kidding (to be) v. . joke
lack v. be without
lend a sympathetic
ear
exp. listen to someone with understanding and compassion
let yourself go v. allow yourself to lose your inhibitions
lie v. not tell the untruth
life and soul n. the center of attention/energy at a social event
lifespan n. the period between birth and death
line of duty n. acting in conformity with your responsibilities
load n. a large amount of
lobster n. a large marine crustacean which is a culinary delicacy
long for v. desire strongly or persistently
lounge n. a sitting room in a house
lovely adj. beautiful, very nice
loyal adj. showing constant support for a person
lumberjack n. a person who cuts down trees
make the grade exp. be of a sufficiently high standard
matched (to be) v. be suited
medium-rare adj. cooked so that quite a bit of blood is left
mellow adj. relaxed, easygoing, genial
merit n. admirable quality or attribute
midwife n. a woman skilled in aiding the delivery of babies
mind v. be concerned and bothered with or about something or somebody
mirror n. polished surface that reflects your image back to you
miserable adj. very unhappy
mistake someone for
someone else
exp. think that someone is another person
moaner n. a person given to excessive complaints and crying
moronic adj. ridiculous
murder n. premeditated killing of a human being by another human being
navy blue adj. color typical used on military ships or naval uniforms
night owl n. a person who likes to be active late at night
night shift n. working period that takes place at night typically in manual jobs but
also in hospitals
nightmare n. bad/unpleasant dream
non-verbal cues n. indicators of what someone is feeling revealed through their body
language rather than what they are saying
obey v. do what someone tells you to do
obnoxious adj. causing disapproval or protest
obsessed adj. showing excessive or compulsive concern with something
oil rig n. a structure with equipment for drilling an oil well; an oil platform
on the fly exp. while already in progress, spontaneously
on the spur of the
moment
exp.- spontaneously
once in a blue moon exp. extremely rarely
Appendix 1
142
open-minded adj. ready to entertain new ideas
out-of-body
experience
n. apparently supernatural state where you feel that you have left your
body
outcome n. result
outgoing adj. extrovert, at ease in talking to others
outgoings n. the opposite of income, i.e. money you spend on bills, household
items etc.
overcharged (to be) v. . to pay more than was due or expected
overly adv. to an excessive degree
overqualified adj. with more than a sufficient number of qualifications and thus
probably unsuitable/unsuited to a particular job
overtime n. work done in addition to regular working hours
package holiday n. organized holiday via an agency
panic n. overcome by a sudden fear
parcel n. a package that has been wrapped
pastel adj. delicate and pale in color
peak v. to reach the highest point; attain maximum intensity
pensioner n. someone who is no longer in employment and who receives money
(a pension) from the state
perceived adj. detected by instinct or inference
perfectionism n. a disposition to feel that anything less than perfect is unacceptable
performance-related
pay
n. salary in relation to how well you carry out responsibilities at work
pet n. domestic animal (cat, dog, rabbit) typically treated like a member of
the family
play n. a theatrical performance
play sick exp. pretend to be ill in order not to have to do something that you don’t
want to do
plumber n. person who installs and repairs pipes and fixtures and appliances
pocket money n. spending money given to a child
pointer n. indicator
pointless adj. serving no useful purpose
pollution n. contamination with harmful substances as a consequence of human
activities
pot of gold n. a container full of cold that in folklore is reputedly found at the end
of a rainbow
pour your heart out exp. tell someone your deepest feelings in a prolonged spurt
practice what you
preach
exp. act in accordance with how you say that you should act
praise n. expression of approval and commendation
praise v. compliment someone who has done something of merit
prank n. joke
prescription n. written instructions from a physician or dentist to a pharmacist
concerning the form and dosage of a drug
prestige n. a high standing achieved through success
presume v. accept without verification or proof
primrose n. a yellow flower
procrastinate v. postpone doing what you should be doing
Appendix 1
143
proffer v. present for acceptance or rejection
proud adj. feeling good about someone close (partner, member of family,
colleague) due to their very good performance
prudence n. discretion in practical affairs; knowing how to avoid embarrassment
or distress
prying adj. too curious or inquisitive
pushy adj. rather aggressive ambition
put up with
something
v. cope with or manage some kind of adverse situation without actually
trying to change it
put yourself in
someone else’s shoes
exp. project yourself into someone else’s predicament and understand
how they feel
quorum (plural quorums or quora) n. online discussion group
quote n. estimate of cost
rainbow n. an arc of colored light in the sky caused by refraction of the sun’s
rays by rain
recipe n. directions for making something in the kitchen
reckless adj. marked by defiant disregard for danger or consequences
refund n. money returned to a payer
reimburse v. pay back for some expense incurred
reincarnation n. doctrine/belief that person may be reborn
rely v. have confidence or faith in
rely on v. count on, exploit
resentful adj. full of resentment and ill will
resign yourself v. accept as inevitable
resigned adj. having come to accept
resolution n. plan to take a particular course of action
resort n. frequently visited tourist location
retire v. stop working because you have reached a certain age
riddle n. a question or statement intentionally phrased so as to require
ingenuity in ascertaining its answer or meaning
risk your shirt v. undertake a venture without regard to possible loss or injury
root of all evil exp. the prime cause of everything that is bad
roundabouts,
carousels
n. rides typically chosen by young children when at a fun fair
ruin n. an irrecoverable state of destruction
run v. manage
sainthood n. the status of a saint, i.e. a person acknowledged as holy or virtuous in
the Christian faith
sarcastic adj. expressing ridicule
say what’s on your
mind
exp. express what you really think about something
scenario n. situation.
séance n. a meeting at which people attempt to make contact with the dead,
self esteem n. an attitude of admiration, approval and liking of and for oneself
selfish adj. concerned only with yourself to the exclusion of others
selfless adj. concerned for the welfare of others rather than your own needs
sensible adj. showing reason or sound judgment
sensitive adj. being susceptible to attitudes, feelings, or circumstances
Appendix 1
144
set something aside v. put to one side; out of the way (especially away from one’s thoughts)
set yourself up v. allow yourself to be in a weak position so that someone else can
potentially do something negative to you
sewer n. a waste pipe that carries away sewage or surface water
shaking v. when your body moves involuntarily when something negative has
happened to you or is about to happen
shame n. a painful emotion resulting from an awareness of inadequacy
sheer adj. complete and without restriction
short notice n. without advance notification
short of (to be) exp. to have an insufficient amount of something
show up for v. be present at
shun v. deliberately avoid
shyness n. a feeling of fear of embarrassment
sit out v. remain for the whole duration
skydiving n. performing acrobatics in free fall
slot machine n. a machine for gambling typical found in bars, cinemas etc.
spice n. something more interesting than what is currently available
spike n. sudden peak (typically found in graphs, but in this specific case used
in a metaphorical sense)
spot v. notice, identify
stall-holder n. someone with a vending point at a market
stand v. how you feel about, what your position is in relation to something
stare v. . watch/observe in a fixed manner
starring (to be) v. to be the most important performer or have the most important role
start up n. very new enterprise/company
starter n. food or drink to stimulate the appetite usually served before a meal or
as the first course
stick to v. continue as you have always done
stick to details v. never deviate from the details
stick to something v. continue on a course of action without being tempted to give up
sticks and stones
may break my bones
exp. your violence might affect me physically, but nothing that you say
to me will injure me
straightforward adj. direct, free from ambiguity
stretched out adj. with your muscles extended
struggle v. have great difficulty
stuck adj. caught; fixed
stuff n. unspecified belongings
submissive adj. willing to submit to orders or wishes of others
succumb v. consent reluctantly
sun-drenched adj. covered with sunlight
supposed to be v. . to be expected to
surgeon n. a physician who specializes in surgery, i.e. cutting open the human
body to perform a medical intervention
survivor n. someone who does not die in an accident
sympathy n. sharing and understanding the negative feelings or situation of others
tackle v. accept as a challenge and deal with
tactfully adv. showing diplomacy
take a stand against exp. oppose
Appendix 1
145
take something to
heart
exp. take criticism seriously and be affected or upset by it
take something to the
next level
exp. progress to a higher and better point/stage
take the initiative exp. show readiness to embark on new ventures
take time off exp. stop going to work for a limited period
taunting v. abuse vocally by deriding, mocking or criticizing
tease v. ridicule, harass, provoke
teasing n. playful provocation
tell someone off v. reprimand
teller n. an employee of a bank who receives and pays out money
the end justifies the
means
exp. a good outcome excuses any wrongs committed to achieve it
therefore adv. as a consequence
think outside the box exp. not to think in the usual standard way, but instead think laterally in
order generate unusual approaches or solutions
thoroughly adv. completely
threat n. a warning that something unpleasant is imminent
threaten v. express an intention that is likely to go against the wishes of the
person receiving the threat
threshold n. the starting point for a new state or experience (in this specific case,
level of tolerance)
thrill rides at a fun
fair
n. activities causing high levels of sensation at an amusement park
thrive v. need and enjoy
ticklish spot n. location on your body that is susceptible to being tickled (i.e. light
touching by another person of one of the parts of your body in a way
that is slightly irritating but always makes you want to laugh)
tidy adj. marked by good order and cleanliness in appearance or habits
tip n. money given for services rendered (e.g. in a restaurant or bar)
to-do list n. a list of tasks to be completed
ton of stuff n. with considerable knowledge about a lot of subjects
top job n. very good job in high position
top of the range exp. the best in its category
topless beach noun. a sandy area near the sea where relax without a bra/the top half of
a bikini
touch v. affect on an emotional or intellectual level
tradesman n. a merchant who owns or manages a shop
trading n. buying or selling securities or commodities
trait n. a distinguishing feature of your personal nature
trample over
someone
v. let another person do whatever he/she wants even though this goes
totally against your own best interests
trance n. a psychological state as if induced by a magical incantation; v.
attract; cause to be enamored
tread v. crush; treat badly so that you can continue on your chosen course of
action
trembling v. . slight shaking
trendy adj. in accord with the latest fashion
trouble n. in a bad situation that you have created yourself
Appendix 1
146
turn off n. something unattractive
turn on n. something attractive
turn out v. . reveal itself to be
turn out right exp. have a final positive result
turn your hand at
something
exp. be able to conduct a manual task or a job
underlying adj. being or involving basic facts or principles
unscathed adj. completely unharmed
up to scratch adj. of expected quality
upbringing n. experience acquired during a person’s formative years
upset adj. mildly distressed
upset v. cause an emotional disturbance
vegan n. someone who eats no animal or dairy products at all
wardrobe n. piece of furniture that provides storage space for clothes
wash up v. clean the dishes
water v. salivate
weigh v. take into account; balance
well done adj. cooked for a sufficient to remove the redness (blood) of the meat
well-rehearsed adj. practiced many times in order to be ready for something
wellbeing n. a contented state of being happy, healthy and prosperous
whisper v. speak softly without vibration of the vocal cords
white lie n. a statement (considered of no great importance) that deviates from
the truth
wise adj. having good judgment or common sense in practical matters often
(but not necessarily) acquired in later life
wonder n. the positive feeling aroused by something strange, surprising or
wonderful
work out v. find
work out right exp. have a final positive result
workaholic n. person with a compulsive need to work
would rather v. would prefer
yearn v. desire, want badly
yuk n. a sound/exclamation made to express disgust
yummy adj. extremely pleasing to the sense of taste
Appendix 1
147
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
A. Wallwork, Test Your Personality, Easy English!,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67226-7
Appendix 2
Vocabulary Tests
The exercises on the following pages should ideally be done when you have read the
entire book and have thus learned (or at least read) the words and expressions that
appear in the glossaries.
They are all matching exercises. You simply have to match the word/expression
with its definition.
The tests are grouped by grammatical part of speech.
1-7 Adjectives
1
deluded affectedly modest or shy especially in a playful or provocative way
demure being susceptible to attitudes, feelings, or circumstances
idealistic believing in some (possibly unattainable) morals, values and principles
obnoxious believing that you have a particular quality when in fact you probably don’t
proud causing disapproval or protest
selfish concerned for the welfare of others rather than your own needs
selfless concerned only with yourself to the exclusion of others
sensitive feeling good about yourself or someone close (partner, member of family,
colleague) due to your/their very good performance
2
dull feeling responsible for something that you have done (or not done)
gentle full of resentment and ill will
guilty given to examining your sensory and perceptual experiences
ineffectual having come to accept
introspective having good judgment or common sense in practical matters often (but not
necessarily) acquired in later life
resentful having or showing a kindly or tender nature
resigned lacking in power or forcefulness
wise lacking in liveliness or interest
3
fulfilled marked by defiant disregard for danger or consequences
intuitive obtained through intuition rather than from reasoning or observation
loyal rather aggressive ambition
moronic ready to entertain new ideas
open-minded ridiculous
pushy satisfied
reckless showing constant support for a person
4
bulldozing showing excessive or compulsive concern with something
discreet showing reason or sound judgment
miserable too curious or inquisitive
obsessed unobtrusive
prying very unhappy
sensible willing to submit to orders or wishes of others
submissive aggressive
5
annoyed aroused to impatience or anger
bedraggled bothered by petty annoyances
bloated completely unharmed
captivated filled with wonder and delight
discredited genetically determined
flustered in a very bad condition
folded made difficult or slow
hard wired no longer accepted; brought into disrepute
impeded thrown into a state of agitated confusion
irritated with a very full stomach
overqualified with more than a sufficient number of qualifications and thus probably
unsuitable/unsuited to a particular job
unscathed with your arms placed inside each other
6
addictive able to exist and perform in harmonious or agreeable combination
bitter bright and pleasant; promoting a feeling of cheer
buzzing characteristic of another (apparently more exciting) place or part of the world
challenging exceptionally bad or displeasing
cheery making you unable to stop (typically of a bad habit)
compatible marked by strong resentment or cynicism
dreadful noisy like the sound of a bee
149
exotic requiring full use of your abilities or resources
resourceful strikingly strange or unusual; characteristic of another place or part of the
world
7
foul beautiful, very nice
hideous capable of arousing interest or curiosity
intriguing direct, free from ambiguity
lovely extremely pleasing to the sense of taste
pointless extremely ugly
straightforward in accord with the latest fashion
tidy marked by good order and cleanliness in appearance or habits
trendy serving no useful purpose
yummy unpleasant

8-11 Expressions Containing Verbs
8
back of your mind (be at
the)
a feeling or thought that is constantly with you
be better off address a problem and try to deal with it
be dealt a bad hand adequate; considerable quantity
bear a grudge always see the positive aspects of a situation
bright side of life (look
on the)
be given a series of negative factors to deal with
call into question be in a better position/situation
cut corners dispute the subject matter at issue
do your bit maintain resentment or anger against someone for a past offense
face up to make your contribution
fair amount not complete tasks as they should be, not act in a proper way
9
fill someone with delight be of a sufficiently high standard
give credit when credit
is due
decide something very quickly without reasoning about it
go into the red go beyond a norm in opinion or actions
go too far go under the permitted amount on your bank account
jump to conclusions just for fun
just for the hell of it listen to someone with understanding and compassion
keep your cool maintain your calm in a difficult situation
lend a sympathetic ear pretend to be ill in order not to have to do something that you don’t
want to do
make the grade provide a feeling of extreme pleasure or satisfaction
play sick recognize an achievement when it deserves praise
pour your heart out tell someone your deepest feelings in a prolonged spurt
Appendix 2
150
10
practice what you
preach
a good outcome excuses any wrongs committed to achieve it
put yourself in someone
else’s shoes
act in accordance with how you say that you should act
say what’s on your mind be able to conduct a manual task or a job
the end justifies the
means
express what you really think about something
think outside the box have a final positive result
top of the range have a final positive result
turn out right not to think in the usual standard way, but instead think laterally in
order generate unusual approaches or solutions
turn your hand at
something
project yourself into someone else’s predicament and understand
how they feel
work out right the best in its category
11
take a stand against take criticism seriously and be affected or upset by it
take something to heart progress to a higher and better point/stage
take something to the
next level
show readiness to embark on new ventures
take the initiative stop going to work for a limited period
take time off oppose
12-15 Abstract Nouns 
12
addiction a challenge to do something dangerous
advice a highly (and probably unnecessarily) emotional episode
argument a proposal for an appropriate course of action
autonomy a situation where you feel safe and at ease
awareness an abnormally strong desire due to being dependent on something that is
psychologically or physically habit-forming
comfort zone heated discussion (i.e. where there is strong disagreement)
critical
thinking
independence
dare inner knowledge
drama the process of using your mind to consider something carefully
13
gossip a disposition to feel that anything less than perfect is unacceptable
humility a high standing achieved through success
intuition admirable quality or attribute
merit an irrecoverable state of destruction
panic expression of approval and commendation
Appendix 2
151
perfectionism instinctive knowing without the use of rational processes
praise light informal (but potentially malicious) conversation for social occasions
prestige overcome by a sudden fear
ruin the opposite of arrogance
14
self esteem a contented state of being happy, healthy and prosperous
shame a distinguishing feature of your personal nature
shyness a feeling of fear of embarrassment
spice a painful emotion resulting from an awareness of inadequacy
sympathy a statement (considered of no great importance) that deviates from the truth
trait an attitude of admiration, approval and liking of and for oneself
trouble in a bad situation that you have created yourself
wellbeing sharing and understanding the negative feelings or situation of others
white lie something more interesting than what is currently available

15-16 People and Jobs
15
beggar a member of a fire department who tries to extinguish fires
broadcaster a person who slaughters meat for market; someone who sells meat from a
shop
butcher a person working in the public administration
civil servant a poor person who lives by asking people in the street for money or food
croupier a woman skilled in aiding the delivery of babies
entrepreneur someone in charge of a group of team of people that recruits, interviews,
and trains employees as well as dealing with their individual issues
firefighter someone who collects and pays bets at a gaming table
human resources
manager
someone who organizes a business venture and assumes the risk for it
midwife someone who transmits a program or some information on the radio or
television
16
pensioner a merchant who owns or manages a shop
plumber a physician who specializes in surgery, i.e. cutting open the human body
to perform a medical intervention
stall-holder an employee of a bank who receives and pays out money
surgeon person who installs and repairs pipes and fixtures and appliances
teller person with a compulsive need to work
tradesman someone who eats no animal or dairy products at all
vegan someone who is no longer in employment and who receives money (a
pension) from the state
workaholic someone with a vending point at a market
Appendix 2
152
17-18 Word-Related Nouns
17
bargain a machine for gambling typical found in bars, cinemas etc.
bonds, stocks,
shares
amount of a charge or payment that is established at the beginning of a
job to be done and which binds the party providing the service
charity an advantageous purchase
commission an institution set up to provide help to the needy; a foundation created to
promote the public good
crowdfunding deliberate dishonest behavior intended to gain an advantage
fixed rate deal fee for services rendered based on a percentage of an amount received or
collected or agreed to be paid (as distinguished from a salary)
fraud forms of financial investment
outgoings money given for services rendered (e.g. in a restaurant or bar)
pocket money money returned to a payer
refund practice of funding a project or venture by raising monetary contributions
from a large number of people
slot machine spending money given to a child
tip the opposite of income, i.e. money you spend on bills, household items etc.
18
application buying or selling securities or commodities
company profile estimate of cost
jack of all trades request for employment or admission to a school/college
night shift salary in relation to how well you carry out responsibilities at work
overtime sketch/analysis representing the extent to which a company exhibits
various characteristics
performance-­
related pay
someone who can conduct any kind of (manual) job
quote very good job in high position
start up very new enterprise/company
top job work done in addition to regular working hours
trading working period that takes place at night typically in manual jobs but also
in hospitals
19-22 Verbs
19
blast change task/job frequently and only do the job rather superficially
blush laugh quietly or with restraint
bury move smoothly and effortlessly
chuckle negotiate over a price, terms of an agreement
flit place a dead person in a grave
fret play games for money; take a risk in the hope of a favorable outcome
Appendix 2
153
gamble play music at a very high volume
glide travel by getting a free ride from someone
haggle when your face turns red in embarrassment or shame
hitch worry
20
peak abuse vocally by deriding, mocking or criticizing
retire affect on an emotional or intellectual level
shun consent reluctantly
spot deliberately avoid
stare notice, identify
succumb stop working because you have reached a certain age
taunt to reach the highest point; attain maximum intensity
touch watch/observe in a fixed manner
21
accomplish attribute the responsibility to someone for something that has gone wrong
aid be equivalent, similar, equal, or analogous to something else
allure come to terms or deal successfully with
blame damage irreparably
cope declare untrue
decline entice or attract through personal charm
defy gain with effort
deny go against
destroy help
energize increase; make better or more attractive
enhance inject with energy
entail involve
equate refuse politely
22
lack accept as a challenge and deal with
long for be concerned and bothered with or about something or somebody
mind do what someone tells you to do
obey be without
praise compliment someone who has done something of merit
procrastinate count on, exploit
rely on desire strongly or persistently
struggle desire, want badly
tackle express an intention that is likely to go against the wishes of the person
receiving the threat
tease have great difficulty
threaten need and enjoy
thrive postpone doing what you should be doing
yearn ridicule, harass, provoke
Appendix 2
154

23-25 Phrasal Verbs and Expressions
23
check up on end
cheer yourself up disappoint, make sad/depressed
crop up have a good relationship with
cut off investigate, verify
get away with make yourself feel happier after a negative event
get by manage to do something without any of the foreseen negative consequences
get on well with manage, succeed
get rid of remove; eliminate
get someone
down
take place, occur, happen
24
keep something
back
allow yourself to be in a weak position so that someone else can potentially
do something negative to you
let yourself go allow yourself to lose your inhibitions
put up with
something
be present at
set something
aside
cope with or manage some kind of adverse situation without actually trying
to change it
set yourself up reprimand
show up for put to one side; out of the way (especially away from one’s thoughts)
sit out refrain from mentioning
tell someone off remain for the whole duration
25
ask someone out reveal itself to be
bounce back clean the dishes
cast one’s vote continue on a course of action without being tempted to give up
come out on top create a state of agitation or an angry disturbance
create a fuss find
flag someone
down
find out whether someone is interested in having a relationship by asking
them if they would like to go out for a drink, go to the cinema with you etc.
fool yourself get very good results, better than others
hang on to give yourself the wrong impression
hold down a job keep
risk your shirt keep your job
stick to something let another person do whatever he/she wants even though this goes totally
against your own best interests
trample over
someone
officially express your preference for a particular candidate or option
turn out return to normality after some negative event
wash up stand at a roadside attempting to stop a passing car in order to be helped
work out undertake a venture without regard to possible loss or injury
Appendix 2
155
Key to Exercises
1
demure affectedly modest or shy especially in a playful or provocative way
sensitive being susceptible to attitudes, feelings, or circumstances
idealistic believing in some (possibly unattainable) morals, values and principles
deluded believing that you have a particular quality when in fact you probably
don’t
obnoxious causing disapproval or protest
selfless concerned for the welfare of others rather than your own needs
selfish concerned only with yourself to the exclusion of others
proud feeling good about someone close (partner, member of family, colleague)
due to their very good performance
2
guilty feeling responsible for something that you have done (or not done)
resentful full of resentment and ill will
introspective given to examining your sensory and perceptual experiences
resigned having come to accept
wise having good judgment or common sense in practical matters often (but
not necessarily) acquired in later life
gentle having or showing a kindly or tender nature
ineffectual lacking in power or forcefulness
dull lacking in liveliness or interest
3
reckless marked by defiant disregard for danger or consequences
intuitive obtained through intuition rather than from reasoning or observation
pushy rather aggressive ambition
open-minded ready to entertain new ideas
moronic ridiculous
fulfilled satisfied
loyal showing constant support for a person
4
obsessed showing excessive or compulsive concern with something
sensible showing reason or sound judgment
prying too curious or inquisitive
discreet unobtrusive
miserable very unhappy
submissive willing to submit to orders or wishes of others
bulldozing aggressive
5
annoyed bothered by petty annoyances
bedraggled in a very bad condition
bloated with a very full stomach
Appendix 2
156
captivated filled with wonder and delight
discredited no longer accepted; brought into disrepute
flustered thrown into a state of agitated confusion
folded with your arms placed inside each other
hard wired genetically determined
impeded made difficult or slow
irritated aroused to impatience or anger
overqualified with more than a sufficient number of qualifications and thus probably
unsuitable/unsuited to a particular job
unscathed completely unharmed
6
addictive making you unable to stop (typically of a bad habit)
bitter marked by strong resentment or cynicism
buzzing noisy like the sound of a bee
challenging requiring full use of your abilities or resources
cheery bright and pleasant; promoting a feeling of cheer
compatible able to exist and perform in harmonious or agreeable combination
dreadful exceptionally bad or displeasing
exotic characteristic of another (apparently more exciting) place or part of the
world
resourceful requiring full use of your abilities or resources
7
foul unpleasant
hideous extremely ugly
intriguing capable of arousing interest or curiosity
lovely beautiful, very nice
pointless serving no useful purpose
straightforward direct, free from ambiguity
tidy marked by good order and cleanliness in appearance or habits
trendy in accord with the latest fashion
yummy extremely pleasing to the sense of taste
8
back of your mind
(be at the)
a feeling or thought that is constantly with you
be better off be in a better position/situation
be dealt a bad hand be given a series of negative factors to deal with
bear a grudge maintain resentment or anger against someone for a past offense
bright side of life
(look on the)
always see the positive aspects of a situation
call into question dispute the subject matter at issue
cut corners not complete tasks as they should be, not act in a proper way
do your bit make your contribution
face up to address a problem and try to deal with it
fair amount adequate; considerable quantity
Appendix 2
157
9
fill someone with
delight
provide a feeling of extreme pleasure or satisfaction
give credit when
credit is due
recognize an achievement when it deserves praise
go into the red go under the permitted amount on your bank account
go too far go beyond a norm in opinion or actions
jump to conclusions decide something very quickly without reasoning about it
just for the hell of it just for fun
keep your cool maintain your calm in a difficult situation
lend a sympathetic
ear
listen to someone with understanding and compassion
make the grade be of a sufficiently high standard
play sick pretend to be ill in order not to have to do something that you don’t want
to do
pour your heart out tell someone your deepest feelings in a prolonged spurt
10
practice what you
preach
act in accordance with how you say that you should act
put yourself in
someone else’s
shoes
project yourself into someone else’s predicament and understand how
they feel
say what’s on your
mind
express what you really think about something
the end justifies the
means
a good outcome excuses any wrongs committed to achieve it
think outside the
box
not to think in the usual standard way, but instead think laterally in order
generate unusual approaches or solutions
top of the range the best in its category
turn out right have a final positive result
turn your hand at
something
be able to conduct a manual task or a job
work out right have a final positive result
11
take a stand against oppose
take something to
heart
take criticism seriously and be affected or upset by it
take something to
the next level
progress to a higher and better point/stage
take the initiative show readiness to embark on new ventures
take time off stop going to work for a limited period
12
addiction an abnormally strong desire due to being dependent on something that is
psychologically or physically habit-forming
advice a proposal for an appropriate course of action
Appendix 2
158
argument heated discussion (i.e. where there is strong disagreement)
autonomy independence
awareness inner knowledge
comfort zone a situation where you feel safe and at ease
critical thinking the process of using your mind to consider something carefully
dare a challenge to do something dangerous
drama a highly (and probably unnecessarily) emotional episode
13
gossip light informal (but potentially malicious) conversation for social
occasions
humility the opposite of arrogance
intuition instinctive knowing without the use of rational processes
merit admirable quality or attribute
panic overcome by a sudden fear
perfectionism a disposition to feel that anything less than perfect is unacceptable
praise expression of approval and commendation
prestige a high standing achieved through success
ruin an irrecoverable state of destruction
14
self esteem an attitude of admiration, approval and liking of and for oneself
shame a painful emotion resulting from an awareness of inadequacy
shyness a feeling of fear of embarrassment
spice something more interesting than what is currently available
sympathy sharing and understanding the negative feelings or situation of others
trait a distinguishing feature of your personal nature
trouble in a bad situation that you have created yourself
wellbeing a contented state of being happy, healthy and prosperous
white lie a statement (considered of no great importance) that deviates from the
truth
15
beggar a poor person who lives by asking people in the street for money or food
broadcaster someone who transmits a program or some information on radio or
television
butcher a person who slaughters meat for market; someone who sells meat from
a shop
civil servant a person working in the public administration
croupier someone who collects and pays bets at a gaming table
entrepreneur someone who organizes a business venture and assumes the risk for it
firefighter a member of a fire department who tries to extinguish fires
human resources
manager
someone in charge of a group of team of people that recruits, interviews,
and trains employees as well as dealing with their individual issues
midwife a woman skilled in aiding the delivery of babies
Appendix 2
159
16
pensioner someone who is no longer in employment and who receives money (a
pension) from the state
plumber person who installs and repairs pipes and fixtures and appliances
stall-holder someone with a vending point at a market
surgeon a physician who specializes in surgery, i.e. cutting open the human body
to perform a medical intervention
teller an employee of a bank who receives and pays out money
tradesman a merchant who owns or manages a shop
vegan someone who eats no animal or dairy products at all
workaholic person with a compulsive need to work
17
bargain an advantageous purchase
bonds, stocks,
shares
forms of financial investment
charity an institution set up to provide help to the needy; a foundation created to
promote the public good
commission fee for services rendered based on a percentage of an amount received or
collected or agreed to be paid (as distinguished from a salary)
crowdfunding practice of funding a project or venture by raising monetary contributions
from a large number of people
fixed rate deal amount of a charge or payment that is established at the beginning of a
job to be done and which binds the party providing the service
fraud deliberate dishonest behavior intended to gain an advantage
outgoings the opposite of income, i.e. money you spend on bills, household items
etc.
pocket money spending money given to a child
refund money returned to a payer
slot machine a machine for gambling typical found in bars, cinemas etc.
tip money given for services rendered (e.g. in a restaurant or bar)
18
application request for employment or admission to a school/college
company profile sketch/analysis representing the extent to which a company exhibits
various characteristics
jack of all trades someone who can conduct any kind of (manual) job
night shift working period that takes place at night typically in manual jobs but also
in hospitals
overtime work done in addition to regular working hours
performance-
related pay
salary in relation to how well you carry out responsibilities at work
quote estimate of cost
start up very new enterprise/company
top job very good job in high position
trading buying or selling securities or commodities
Appendix 2
160
19
blast play music at a very high volume
blush when your face turns red in embarrassment or shame
bury place a dead person in a grave
chuckle laugh quietly or with restraint
flit change task/job frequently and only do the job rather superficially
fret worry
gamble play games for money; take a risk in the hope of a favorable outcome
glide move smoothly and effortlessly
haggle negotiate over a price, terms of an agreement
hitch travel by getting a free ride from someone
20
peak to reach the highest point; attain maximum intensity
retire stop working because you have reached a certain age
shun deliberately avoid
spot notice, identify
stare watch/observe in a fixed manner
succumb consent reluctantly
taunt abuse vocally by deriding, mocking or criticizing
touch affect on an emotional or intellectual level
21
accomplish gain with effort
aid help
allure entice or attract through personal charm
blame attribute the responsibility to someone for something that has gone
wrong
cope come to terms or deal successfully with
decline refuse politely
defy go against
deny declare untrue
destroy damage irreparably
energize inject with energy
enhance increase; make better or more attractive
entail involve
equate be equivalent, similar, equal, or analogous to something else
22
lack be without
long for desire strongly or persistently
mind be concerned and bothered with or about something or somebody
obey be obedient to
praise compliment someone who has done something of merit
procrastinate postpone doing what you should be doing
Appendix 2
161
rely on count on, exploit
struggle have great difficulty
tackle accept as a challenge and deal with
tease ridicule, harass, provoke
threaten express an intention that is likely to go against the wishes of the person
receiving the threat
thrive need and enjoy
yearn desire, want badly
23
check up on investigate, verify
cheer yourself up make yourself feel happier after a negative event
crop up take place, occur, happen
cut off end
get away with manage to do something without any of the foreseen negative
consequences
get by manage, succeed
get on well with have a good relationship with
get rid of remove; eliminate
get someone down disappoint, make sad/depressed
24
keep something
back
refrain from mentioning
let yourself go allow yourself to lose your inhibitions
put up with
something
cope with or manage some kind of adverse situation without actually
trying to change it
set something aside put to one side; out of the way (especially away from one’s thoughts)
set yourself up allow yourself to be in a weak position so that someone else can
potentially do something negative to you
show up for be present at
sit out remain for the whole duration
tell someone off reprimand
25
ask someone out find out whether someone is interested in having a relationship by asking
them if they would like to go out for a drink, go to the cinema with you
etc.
bounce back return to normality after some negative event
cast one’s vote officially express your preference for a particular candidate or option
come out on top get very good results, better than others
create a fuss create a state of agitation or an angry disturbance
flag someone down stand at a roadside attempting to stop a passing car in order to be helped
fool yourself give yourself the wrong impression
hang on to keep
hold down a job keep your job
Appendix 2
162
risk your shirt undertake a venture without regard to possible loss or injury
stick to something continue on a course of action without being tempted to give up
trample over
someone
let another person do whatever he/she wants even though this goes totally
against your own best interests
turn out reveal itself to be
wash up clean the dishes
work out find
Appendix 2
163
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
A. Wallwork, Test Your Personality, Easy English!,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67226-7
A
Air passenger, 61
Altruistic, 18
Ambition, 21, 27
Assertive, 11
Attention seeking, 15
B
Body, happy with, 24
Boss, 54, 55
C
Cautious, 8
Communicative, 29
Confident, 14
D
Daily habits, 57
Driving, drivers, 29
E
Embarrassed, 12
Ethical, 51, 53
Extrovert, 2
F
Family, 35, 36
Finances, managing, 41
Friend, 32
H
Happy, 23
Health, 22
Honest, 17
I
Image, 27
Imaginative, 28
Internet, 59
Introvert, 1
J
Job, 25, 42–46
L
Left brain, right
brain, 38
Logical thinker, 37, 38
Love, 33, 34
Index
1
1Note: The numbers in this index refer to the number of the personality test.
164
M
Managerial potential, 52, 56
Maturity, 58
Meeting skills, 47
Morning or evening, 5
N
Negotiating skills, 48
Nice, 19
P
Parent, 35
Partner, 33, 34
Psychic, 30
R
Responsible, 40
Risk taker, 6, 50
S
Sensation seeker, 7
Shopping, 60
Spontaneous, 9
Stress, 26
Strong character, 13
Supernatural, 30
T
Tactful, 20
Time management, 49
Travel, 29, 61
Trusting, trustworthy, 16
V
Versatile, 39
Victim, 4, 26
Victor, 3
W
Work, 42–56
Index
