Thus, a speech community is often defined not necessarily by linguistic fac-
tors, but rather by cultural, social, or political ones (see ibid.:27–32).
Given the importance of social, cultural, and political considerations in the
definition of a language, and following the population-theoretic definition of a
species, Croft follows Chambers and Trudgill (1980) in suggesting a social,
rather than a linguistic, definition of a language. The population-theoretic
definition of a language implies that ‘every speaker perceived every other
speaker as someone he or she should be able to communicate with by using
what they perceive as the same language’ (Croft 2000:18). An important
part of this definition is the interaction between individuals in the community
of speakers. Croft states that ‘[c]ommunicative interaction depends not only
on the degree of structural similarity of the varieties spoken, but also on
the social behavior of the speakers. Serbian and Croatian are mutually
intelligible to a high degree, but many speakers do not communicate with
the opposite community due to the recent political changes in former
Yugoslavia’ (ibid.:19). Thus, the analogue of reproductive isolation is, in
the case of language, communicative isolation, and interbreeding in a bio-
logical population would equate to conversational intercourse in a speech
community.
If a biological species is defined as a set of reproductively isolated indi-
viduals and a linguistic species as a set of communicatively isolated indi-
viduals, then in Croft’s view the notions of geographical race and deme in
biology correspond to a social network in a given communicatively isolated
group. A geographical race is a subpopulation of a species defined geo-
graphically, and typically has diverged structurally to some extent, though
not enough to impede interbreeding. A deme, less inclusive than a geo-
graphical race, is a subpopulation within a species which, as with a geo-
graphical race, has a high likelihood of interbreeding and a lower likelihood
of breeding with members belonging to adjacent demes (Croft 2000:19).
Analogously, a social network is ‘a group of people who are most likely to
communicate with each other, and not so much with those outside the net-
work’ (ibid.:20).
Drawing on Hull’s (1988) general model of selection, developed to shed
light on the evolution of concepts in science, Croft (2000:38) proposes the
linguistic analogues to those of biology and science, shown in Table 1.2. The
left-hand column contains the terms of Hull’s generalized theory of selection,
with an analogue of each from biology in the centre column, and from lan-
guage in the right-hand column. I include Mufwene’s concepts where they
correspond to and/or extend those proposed by Croft.
There are some differences between Mufwene’s and Croft’s terminology
and conceptualizations. Mufwene (2001:151–152) sees a language as akin to
a parasitic, symbiotic kind of species: ‘Parasitic species are a fairly adequate
8 Language contact, language learning, and language change
Table
1.2.
Concepts
involving
selection
in
biology
and
language,
and
the
generalized
theory
of
selection
Generalized
theory
of
selection
Paradigm
instantiation
of
selection
in
biology
Paradigm
instantiation
of
selection
in
language
replicator
(spatiotemporally
bound
individual,
i.e.,
a
token;
it
has
structure)
gene
lingueme
(Mufwene’s
feature)
replicators
in
a
population
gene
pool
lingueme
pool
(Mufwene’s
feature
pool)
structured
set
of
replicators
string
of
DNA
utterance
normal
replication
reproduction
by
interbreeding
utterance
production
in
communication,
i.e.,
communicative
intercourse
(see
also
Mufwene
2001:150)
altered
replication
recombination,
mutation
of
genes
mechanisms
for
innovation,
causally
motivated
by
functional
factors
(e.g.,
phonetic
or
conceptual
factors)
(Mufwene’s
(2001:12)
restructuring)
alternative
replicators
alleles
variants
locus
for
alternative
replication
gene
locus
linguistic
variable
interactor
organism
(Croft
envisages
a
plantish
organism
here,
Mufwene
a
parasitic
organism)
speaker
(including
grammar)
(Mufwene’s
individual
speaker)
hybrid
interactor
hybrid
organism
bilingual
speaker
(including
grammars)
(Croft
2000:201)
environment
ecological
environment
social-communicative
context
(Mufwene
also
includes
here
the
intra-linguistic,
the
inter-
linguistic,
and
the
socio-historical
contexts)
selection
survival
and
reproduction
of
organisms
entrenchment
of
convention
by
speakers
and
its
propagation
in
communication
(Mufwene’s
(2001:147)
group
selection)
analog chiefly because a language does not exist without speakers, just like
parasites do not exist without hosts. The life of a language is, to borrow from
Brown (1995:191), “closely tied to the distribution of [its] hosts, which
provide many of the essential environmental conditions necessary to [its]
survival and reproduction.” ’ In addition, Mufwene views language trans-
mission as taking place not necessarily vertically on the parent-to-offspring
model, but rather primarily in a horizontal fashion. Moreover, language
transmission according to Mufwene can be variably polyploidic. Polyploidy
is form of rapid speciation, most commonly found among flowering plants,
which creates the incipient stages of a new species in two or three gener-
ations. The analogue for polyploidy in language change is, at the most
basic level, the creation of idiolects in individual speakers, and on a higher
level the creation of pidgin or creole languages within just one or two
generations.
Croft agrees that the parent-to-offspring model does not capture language
transmission or language change, but uses a different analogy. He suggests
that languages can have multiple parents in language transmission, a process
he likens to the phenomenon of introgression, whereby if two plant species
hybridize, and if one hybrid organism then backcrosses with one of its parent
species, it thereby introduces genes from the other species into the gene pool
of the first species (Croft 2000:198, 238). Although there are differences in
their respective views, both authors agree that the parent-to-offspring model
falls short of capturing language transmission accurately, and that for lan-
guage evolution there are more appropriate models from biology, namely
plant reproduction and parasite behaviour.
An illustrative example in which the parent-to-offspring model does not
adequately account for the facts is the emergence of pidgin Portuguese, to be
discussed in chapter 3 below. In the latter part of the fifteenth and the first part
of the sixteenth century, Africans came to make up 10–15 per cent of the
population in southern Portugal (Ramos Tinhorão 1997:92, 102–103), and it is
reasonable to assume that the portrayals of their speech found in popular plays
of the era reflect roughly the manner in which Africans were then speaking
Portuguese. The Portuguese used by the vast majority of first-generation
Africans at that time was learned naturalistically in communication with
native Portuguese speakers, most of whom we can assume to have been adults.
As I will discuss, some of the key structures in the untutored L2 Portuguese are
found in portrayals of African Portuguese in plays of some fifteenth- and
sixteenth-century playwrights. We can reasonably assume that the varieties of
Portuguese spoken by Africans in Portugal were conventionalized in adult-to-
adult communication and that these served as the basis for pidgin Portuguese,
which in turn became the basis for the Portuguese-based creoles. The con-
ventionalized features of these varieties were the result of ‘negotiated’
10 Language contact, language learning, and language change
solutions among African and Portuguese adults.4
Revealingly, immigrant
language varieties involving Chinese and Spanish also exhibit features similar
to those found in African L2 Portuguese, and generally it turns out that
immigrant languages display surprisingly similar characteristics, which taken
together have been argued to comprise what Klein and Perdue (1992) call the
‘basic variety’. Such common solutions to communication also reflect adult-
to-adult language transmission. (See chapter 6 below.)
Several factors underlie Klein and Perdue’s (1992) ‘basic variety’ of
immigrant speech. I believe that at least some of these factors are processing-
related phenomena, observed in L2 acquisition (see Zobl 1982) and in L1
acquisition (see Bates and Goodman 1999), that involve different types of
bootstrapping. I review these in the next section and then come back to
address the effect of input in language acquisition.
1.3 Bootstrapping in L1/L2 acquisition and the linguistic
structure of contact varieties
Croft (2000:42–63) argues that innovations of the sorts introduced by children
into language are in general neither maintained by speakers until adulthood
nor of the same type as found in language change. Thus, children most often
are not the source of innovations that are propagated and end in language
change.
In this section, I discuss certain learning strategies in L1 and L2 acquisition
that involve bootstrapping. In general, the term refers to processes whereby a
complex system emerges by starting simply and, bit by bit, developing more
complex capabilities on top of the simpler ones. I discuss various kinds of
bootstrapping, following work done by Bates and Goodman (1999), and
drawing on examples from language contact phenomena to be examined in
detail in this volume.
The general issue at hand is that portions of language are acquired initially
in the acquisition process and that they help learners in the further acquisition
of a language. One example of this is: meaning is used as a basis on which to
build syntactic structure. Increasingly, researchers recognize the strong rela-
tion between meaning on the one hand, and argument structure of verbs and
syntactic structure on the other (Bresnan 1982, 2001; Goldberg 1995, 1999;
Langacker 1987). Levin and Rappaport Hovav (1995:1), for example, suggest
a causal relation between the regularities linking arguments bearing certain
semantic roles and particular syntactic expressions: the extent that the
4
On the concept of ‘negotiation’, see Thomason 2001:142–146. As I understand Thomason’s
notion of ‘negotiation’, it refers to what she also called ‘mutual linguistic accommodation’ in
Thomason and Kaufman 1988.
1.3 Bootstrapping in L1/L2 acquisition 11
semantic role of an argument is determined by the meaning of the verb
selecting it, the existence of linking regularities supports the idea that verb
meaning is a factor in determining the syntactic structure of sentences. The
striking similarities in the linking regularities across languages strongly sug-
gest that they are part of the architecture of language. If this is true of language
in general, it is also true of language acquisition. In this respect, Bates and
Goodman (1999) comment on a large number of studies that show the cor-
relation between not only verb acquisition and syntax but also, more generally,
between vocabulary acquisition and grammar acquisition. They state that ‘the
dependence of early grammar on vocabulary size is so strong and the nonlinear
shape of this function is so regular that it approaches the status of a psycho-
logical law’ (ibid.:51). To explain why the relation between grammar and the
lexicon is so strong, they propose that it has to do with different types of
bootstrapping, of which they distinguish five, none of which excludes any of
the others (ibid.:51–53) and four of which will be discussed here.5
The first is perceptual bootstrapping. Bates and Goodman cite studies in
which it is argued that for efficient word perception to happen a certain
amount of top-down processing is necessary. It permits the listener to separate
out the inappropriate possibilities from all the items that overlap (at least
partially) with the blurred word tokens encountered in fluent speech.
Assuming this to be accurate, Bates and Goodman suggest that it is even more
accurate in reference to the perception of grammatical function words and
bound inflections. These are hard to perceive because they usually consist of
at most a few sounds and are unstressed, even in deliberate and slow speech.
In informal and rapid speech, speakers tend to shorten them further,
deforming their phonetic structure and blurring the boundaries between these mor-
phemes and the words that surround them. In fact, when grammatical function words
are clipped out of connected speech and presented in isolation, adult native speakers
can recognize them no more than 40 per cent to 50 per cent of the time (Herron and
Bates, 1997). This is true of speech directed to children as well as speech directed to
adults (Goodman, et al. 1990). (Bates and Goodman 1999:52)
They note that it is not surprising that young children are not able to acquire
grammatical forms before they have learned a certain quantity of lexical
items. The bootstrapping aspect of this is that the critical mass of content
words allows the learner enough top-down structure to perceive and then
learn the closed-class elements that turn up between the actual lexical items.
5
The type I will not discuss is the apparent relation between the non-linear shape of vocabulary
acquisition and grammar development on the one hand, and non-linear dynamics of learning in
neural network simulations on the other. Bates and Goodman note that ‘multilayered neural
networks produce an array of nonlinear growth functions, reflecting the nonlinear dynamics of
learning and change in these systems’ (1999:53), and that this avenue of research would be fruitful.
12 Language contact, language learning, and language change
One can appeal to perceptual bootstrapping to account for the same phe-
nomenon found in L2 acquisition. Zobl (1982) reports on findings suggesting
that a critical degree of lexical learning must take place before functional
elements are acquired. I argue that it also accounts for the under-acquisition
of functional elements in naturalistically learned L2 speech (see chapters 3, 4,
5, and 6 in this volume). In general, Klein and Perdue (1992) find that in
immigrant language the functional elements as a group are not acquired in the
same way as lexical items.
This phenomenon in L1 and L2 acquisition can also be accounted for by
the second type of bootstrapping discussed by Bates and Goodman (1999),
namely logical bootstrapping. They report on studies targeting several dif-
ferent languages that show that, with the exception of a few items like up and
no, function words tend to appear after the first verbs and adjectives, and well
after the first nouns. Interestingly many early prepositions are also not used by
children in the same ways as adults use them. For example, Dromi (1987)
describes how a word such as up is used at first by a child in a specific context
(e.g., while bathing) and only later context-independently. It is revealing that
in pidgin development an all-purpose preposition is common; moreover, in
immigrant languages of different sorts we also find an all-purpose prepos-
ition. Bates and Goodman mention the suggestion that the development from
names to predication to grammar is logically necessary because ‘[c]hildren
cannot understand relational terms until they understand the things that these
words relate. One can argue about the extent to which this assumption holds
for individual structures, but it may provide a partial explanation for the
dependence of grammar on lexical growth’ (1999:52).
While perceptual and logical bootstrapping address the link between lex-
ical growth and subsequent grammar development, syntactic bootstrapping
uses different aspects of a sentence frame to be able to interpret utterances,
aspects such as sentence-level semantics, morphological cues, word order,
and prosody. It is, however, not unreasonable to assume that syntactic
structure such as word order is used in the interpretation of utterances in
children. In her view of Emergent Grammar, Goldberg states that:
grammar emerges primarily during initial acquisition, from a combination of linguistic
input, the functional demands of communication, and general cognitive abilities and
constraints. Once grammar is acquired, it is assumed that it has a highly conven-
tionalized status, and that although minute changes in the system constantly occur, the
system as a whole is fairly stable. (1999:200)
From this definition, it follows that structural information in a sentence can
be used to learn about a novel word. In fact, Goldberg (ibid.:201) remarks
that two- to three-year-old children learn word-specific word orders even
though they are also somewhat sensitive to word order independently of a
1.3 Bootstrapping in L1/L2 acquisition 13
specific verb. Four-year-olds, however, rely substantially more on the gen-
eralization of word order independently of specific verbs. The basis of this is
not only development of the lexicon, but also the factor of frequency of use of
the most commonly used verbs, which serve as exemplars for certain con-
structions. I use this term to refer to the set of instances of use of the most
frequently occurring verbs (e.g., the verb do in English for a transitive con-
struction) that serve as the first model for the set of transitive verbs in a
language. Goldberg (ibid.:208) suggests that ‘the semantics that comes to be
associated with a syntactic pattern emerges from early uses of a pattern with
particular verbs’.
More generally, this idea can be linked to the aforementioned one advanced
by Levin and Rappaport Hovav that the semantics of the verb plays a role in
determining the syntactic structure of sentences. So far, the types of boot-
strapping discussed involve language acquisition more directly. However, the
notion of a lexically based grammar, that is, a grammar in which the lexicon is
responsible for more of the syntactic structure in language, is seen by Bates
and Goodman as a stronger claim because it extends to the lexicon–grammar
relation in adults. The observation that the lexicon and grammar belong to two
different modules may be, they point out, a subsequent development, fol-
lowing the processes of modularization described by Karmiloff-Smith (1992),
Bates, Bretherton, and Snyder (1988) and Friederici (1990).6
So far, I have talked about the role different types of bootstrapping play in
the acquisition of language, both L1 and L2. For L2 acquisition in particular,
issues of language input have also been discussed in the literature. In this
volume, I attempt to show that input is important for understanding more
fully how immigrant varieties, pidgins, and creoles form and develop. Above,
I stated that language learners acquire words first, before grammar. Andersen
and Shirai (1996) and Andersen (1993) argue that the process of acquiring
grammatical morphemes is constrained by inherent lexical aspect, which in
turn may be influenced by the nature and extent of the input. Regarding the
role of inherent aspect on the acquisition of grammar, Andersen and Shirai
(1996:529) note that ‘[i]t has been consistently observed that L1 and L2
learners, in the early stages of acquiring verbal morphology, use tense–aspect
selectively according to the inherent lexical aspect of the verb to which the
tense–aspect marker is attached or with which it is associated.’ To account for
these facts, they propose the Primacy of Aspect (POA) Hypothesis, given in
Table 1.3.
6
Bates and Goodman (1999:53) comment that the question of modularity in the adult steady-
state is referred to in the literature on language disorders in adults and children, where strong
claims about the modularity of grammar and the lexicon can be found.
14 Language contact, language learning, and language change
In untutored (that is, naturalistic) as well as tutored L2 acquisition, the
POA hypothesis predicts that learners will display sensitivity to the link
between the lexical aspect of the predicate and the forms most semantically
congenial to them. That is, telic predicates will appear first in perfective
forms and atelic predicates will appear first in imperfective forms, although
states will not appear in the progressive. It is important to note that this
hypothesis refers to what learners produce, not to what they have as input or
what they take in from the input.
The Distribution Bias Hypothesis (DBH), by contrast, addresses the issue of
what learners receive as input. It projects that the distribution of forms to
predicate classes (i.e., stative, atelic, and telic predicates) is such that speakers
of any given language will produce in normal discourse more imperfective
forms with states and activities and more perfective forms with accomplish-
ments and achievements. Andersen (1993:320) describes it in the following
way: ‘Native speakers will tend to use past or perfective inflections more with
telic and punctual events than with states or activities, progressive inflections
primarily with activities, and imperfective inflections more with states and
activities than with telic and punctual events.’ To my knowledge, this
hypothesis has never been tested against a data base. To test it, I undertook a
frequency count of imperfective and perfective forms of eight verbs in an oral
corpus of Spanish from Spain, shown in Table 1.4.7
Three predicates (saber ‘know’, poder ‘be able’, querer ‘want, love’) are
stative, two are atelic (trabajar ‘work’ and buscar ‘look for’), and three are
Table 1.3. The Primacy of Aspect Hypothesis
a. Learners will initially restrict past or perfective marking to telic verbs (achievements and
accomplishments) and later gradually extend the marking to atelic predicates (activity
and then stative predicates), with states being the last category to be marked consistently.
b. In languages with an imperfective marker, imperfective past appears much later than
perfective past and then is initially restricted to atelic predicates (stative and activity verbs),
then extended to telic predicates (accomplishments and then achievements).
c. Progressive marking is initially restricted to dynamic atelic predicates (activity verbs),
then extended to telic predicates (accomplishments and then achievements).
d. Progressive marking is not incorrectly overextended to states.
Source: Andersen and Shirai 1996:559.
7
The data were taken from the Corpus de Referencia del Español Actual (CREA) available at
the website of the Real Academia Española (www.rae.es). Some of the forms, such as trabajo
‘I work’ and ‘work’ and busca ‘s/he looks for’ and ‘search’, are homophonic. In these cases,
the noun uses were excluded from the count. However, although all infinitives in Spanish can
be used as nouns, as in el saber que ‘knowing that’, such uses represent a small percentage of
the frequency of use of the infinitives and therefore were included for all verbs.
1.3 Bootstrapping in L1/L2 acquisition 15
Table
1.4.
Raw
frequency
counts
of
eleven
forms
of
eight
Spanish
verbs
Static
situations
Dynamic
situations
Stative
predicates
Atelic
predicates
Punctual
predicates
saber
poder
querer
trabajar
buscar
morir
nacer
romper
Present
1s
g
5288
1275
1618
46
24
15
1
7
2s
g
1308
814
635
61
16
14
1
5
3s
g
1130
4550
1392
222
103
88
56
42
1p
l
444
861
338
40
29
3
10
2
3p
l
512
1129
495
84
38
42
29
19
Present
subtotal
8682
8629
4478
453
210
162
97
75
Past
1/3s
g
-
p
r
e
t
12/38
73/157
41/67
31/25
5/13
5/159
48/148
5/36
2s
g
-
i
m
p
/
p
r
e
t
43/4
76/2
49/1
9/1
2/1
2/2
1/10
0/0
1/3s
g
-
i
m
p
394
667
875
86
17
17
9
13
1p
l
-
i
m
p
/
p
r
e
t
53/10
104/38
59/7
145/1
4/0
2/0
0/4
1/1
3p
l
-
i
m
p
/
p
r
e
t
52/14
137/40
111/21
20/8
5/5
10/30
1/16
4/9
Past
subtotal
620
1294
1231
326
52
227
237
69
Non-finite
gerund
51
19
25
449
211
29
4
10
infinitive
813
439
109
620
349
186
58
87
Non-finite
subtotal
864
458
134
1069
560
215
62
97
Total
10,166
10,381
5843
1848
822
604
396
241
Note:
Total
number
of
tokens
is
27,441.
punctual (morir ‘die’, nacer ‘to be born’, romper ‘break’).8
The verb forms
included are five simple present-tense forms, eight past-tense forms (the 1sg
and 3sg imperfect forms are homophonous and not distinguished for this
count), and two non-finite forms (the gerund and the infinitive). Table 1.5
shows the distribution of forms by verb class and grammatical aspect of the
form (i.e., (im)perfectivity).
In this sampling of representative stative, atelic, and punctual predicates in
Spanish, the distribution of the finite verb forms (26,842 tokens) strongly
supports the DBH. As hypothesized, stative and atelic predicates appear
overwhelmingly (over 90 per cent of the time) in imperfective forms and two
punctual predicates (telic) (morir ‘die’ and nacer ‘be born’) appear in per-
fective forms much more frequently than stative and atelic predicates (over
50 per cent of the time). Although punctual romper ‘break’ appears only
35.4 per cent of the time in perfective forms, the overall tendency is, never-
theless, unambiguous: in an oral corpus of native-speaker Spanish from Spain,
there is a clear bias in the distribution between verb form and verb class.
Andersen and Shirai (1996:553) state that in native speaker-to-non-native
speaker discourse, the distribution bias may be even more pronounced.9
Table 1.5. Cross-categorization of forms by verb class and (im)perfectivity
of finite forms, in percentages and raw numbers
Static situations Dynamic situations
States Atelic situations Punctual situations
saber poder querer trabajar buscar morir nacer romper
Imperfective
forms
99.3
(9224)
96.8
(9513)
97.6
(5572)
91.5
(713)
90.8
(236)
49.6
(193)
30.5
(99)
64.6
(93)
Perfective
forms
0.7
(68)
3.2
(310)
2.4
(137)
8.5
(66)
9.2
(24)
50.4
(196)
69.5
(226)
35.4
(51)
Notes: Imperfective forms ¼ 1sg, 2sg, 3sg, 1pl, 3pl of the present tense and 1sg, 2sg, 3sg,
1pl and 3pl of past imperfect. Perfective forms ¼ 1sg, 2sg, 3sg, 1pl, and 3pl of the preterit.
8
Durative telic predicates were excluded in this count because in terms of form they are not
comparable to the other three in that they often correspond not to verb-only predicates as in the
case of the other three classes, but rather to complex predicates, such as build a house or run a
kilometre.
9
Andersen and Shirai (1996) also caution that it is not clear whether the conversation topic or
the simplified nature of learner-directed speech may influence the distributional form–function
bias. This consideration notwithstanding, it is clear from the information in Tables 1.4 and 1.5
that in native speaker-to-native speaker speech there is a distributional form–function bias.
Andersen and Shirai suggest that it would not be surprising if the distribution bias became
more pronounced in learner-directed speech of native speakers. I assume that such learner-
directed speech would include, as well, foreigner-directed speech.
1.3 Bootstrapping in L1/L2 acquisition 17
The foregoing discussion strengthens the view that language change can
and does take place as part of acquisition (e.g., naturalistic L2 acquisition) in
adult-to-adult communication. However, it does not negate the importance of
parent-to-offspring language transmission, though in language change it may
not always play as big a role as has been attributed to it, for example, in the
process of creolization.
1.4 Borrowing vs shift situations and language processing
in the feature pool
Thomason and Kaufman (1988) identify two general tendencies in contact-
induced language phenomena: borrowing and shift. The extent of borrowing
or shift depends on factors prevalent in the contact situation in question. For
borrowing, Thomason and Kaufman (ibid.:73–75) propose a scale, whereby
the more intense the contact situation, the more lexical and structural features
tend to be borrowed. That is, the borrowing-community speakers borrow
words from one or more of the source languages and, if the contact intensity
is stronger, they begin to borrow linguistic structure as well. In such a situ-
ation, bilingualism is a prerequisite for borrowing.
In the case of shift, however, there need be no bilingualism involved prior
to the shift, but it would develop as shifting speakers learn the target-language
vocabulary. As they learn the target language, they typically carry their
native-language structures into the language to which they are shifting.
The general developmental paths borrowing and shift, as I understand
them, are shown in (1.1) and (1.2), based on Croft (2000:213–221).
(1.1) Borrowing ! extensive borrowing ! death by borrowing
(primary parent language is typically the language of the borrowing community)
(1.2) Naturalistic second language acquisition ! semi-shift ! total shift
(primary parent language is typically the language targeted by the new language
learners)
In both borrowing and shift situations, three key factors to be considered are:
contact intensity, markedness of a linguistic feature to be borrowed or to be
learned in language shift, and typological fit between the languages involved
in the contact situation. Contact intensity is often (though need not be)
Another consideration is that Andersen and Shirai’s study of form–function bias may be
language-specific. For example, Paz González (2003) found that the POA Hypothesis did not
predict L2 Spanish learner data if they had Dutch as an L1. However, it seems that the L2
Spanish results are more accurately predictable from the nature of the Dutch verb-marking
input (see especially P. González 2003:105). Thus, the DBH may predict the distribution found
by González where the POA Hypothesis does not.
18 Language contact, language learning, and language change
interpreted from the perspective of (a) non-dominant language(s) in a contact
situation; it impacts the lexical and structural make-up of the feature pool.
Non-dominance itself can be understood in at least two different ways. For
example, overall, Spanish in the Andean region of South America is more
prestigious for a wider range of uses than Quechua. In some rural commu-
nities of the region, however, more people speak Quechua than Spanish and
many of those who speak Spanish speak Quechua more fluently. Thus,
whereas Spanish may be the dominant language in term of general prestige in
the speech communities of the region, Quechua in some areas is dominant in
terms of the number of speakers and their degree of fluency relative to the
number of Spanish speakers and their respective degree of fluency. These two
different types of dominance in the region affect the feature pool differently
in each community. Many Spanish-related lexical and structural features may
be socio-linguistic markers of prestige. However, for this to be the case, they
must be significantly represented in the feature pool such that they constitute
a presence. In a speech community with strong Quechua dominance, its
lexical and structural features would be substantially better represented in the
corresponding feature pool. Thus, in a situation of Spanish acquisition by
Quechua speakers, the Quechua features would be highly dominant and
would consequently find their way into the variety of Spanish learned by
these speakers. We also need to keep in mind that the input received by such
Spanish learners already contains features from Quechua.
Whereas contact intensity impacts the lexical and structural make-up of the
feature pool, markedness of features and typological fit in borrowing and shift
situations involve ease-of-processing concerns for L2 learners. As it is used
here, the term markedness refers to the degree of representation (in terms of
frequency of occurrence) a given lexical (including function words) or
structural feature has within the feature pool of a given contact situation.
Regarding overall (un)markedness of a feature in the world’s languages, it is
always expressed in a specific language or language contact situation. The
less a feature is found in the world’s languages, the less likely it would be for
us to find it represented in the feature pool of a language or language contact
situation and the less likely it would be for the feature to be borrowed or
learned in L2 acquisition. Such a feature would be, for instance, inflectional
infixation, which is exploited much less than inflectional suffixation or pre-
fixation in the world’s languages because, arguably, edges of words are more
easily accessible in production and processing than the interior part of words.
However, if two languages in contact share the feature of inflectional infix-
ation, it would not be surprising for a contact language emerging from such a
situation to display infixation. Thus, the specific prediction would be that
unless infixes are shared by the languages in a contact situation, they would
be seldom if ever borrowed and would also be difficult to learn in a
1.4 Borrowing vs shift situations 19
naturalistic L2 acquisition or shift situation. Thus, one would not expect to
find them forming part of a contact language variety such as immigrant
speech, a pidgin, or a creole unless, of course, they had an overwhelming
presence in the feature pool of the contact situation in question.
If a feature is highly unmarked in the world’s languages, it is assumed not
only that it is found in all known languages, but also that it is easy to produce
and process in language use. For example, the syllable structure CV is con-
sidered the most unmarked as compared to other syllable structures (e.g., V or
VC structures). Thus, the prediction would be that in a given emerging
contact language, if there are two candidates for a given function in a given
slot, the candidate with the CV structure would have an advantage over the
others. But in some cases, the universally unmarked CV structure competes
with frequency of occurrence. Above, I noted that frequency plays an
important part in determining the form of a language. However, if a fre-
quently used form is not perceptually salient, it might not be as easily pro-
cessed (or produced) as other perceptually more salient forms. A case in point
is the syllable structure of the copulas found in Portuguese- and Spanish-
based creoles, to be discussed in chapter 3. Bybee (1985) calls frequency of
occurrence of an item its lexical strength, and refers to its phonological
similarity to the other members of its paradigm as its lexical connections. In
some cases, the lexical strength of a form and its lexical connections
overlap. For example, in the present-tense paradigm of the Spanish stem-
changing verb contar ‘tell, count’, the most frequent form (3sg-pres) is also
the one with more lexical connections, as shown in Table 1.6.
In this paradigm, the form cuenta is the most unmarked paradigmatically in
that its content /kuenta/ is contained in three of the five forms. The most marked
form of the paradigm is contamos. In terms of frequency, in a data-base search
of oral Mexican Spanish, the form cuenta is found 639 times, overwhelmingly
Table 1.6. Lexical strength vs lexical connections:
Spanish contar ‘tell, count’
c u é n t o ‘I tell, count’
j j j j j
c u é n t a s ‘you tell, count’
j j j j j j
c u é n t a ‘s/he tells, counts’
j j j j j j
c u é n t a n ‘they tell, count’
j j j
c o n t á m o s ‘we tell, count’
Note: Bold marks the most frequently used form.
20 Language contact, language learning, and language change
in the idiomatic expressions tomar en cuenta ‘take into account’ and dar cuenta
de ‘account for’. As a verb, it is found 48 times, mostly in the expression contar
con ‘count on, depend on’. The form cuento is found 7 times, two of which are
verb forms; cuentan is found 30 times and contamos 45 times, in both cases
only as verb forms; and cuentas is not found at all.10
Thus, in terms of raw
tokens and as a member of a paradigm, the lexical strength and the lexical
connections of cuenta conspire to make it the default form. In any situation
of paradigm levelling, the prediction would be that contamos would either
be replaced by another construction, such as la gente cuenta,11
or that contamos
would be adapted to fit the paradigm, as with cuéntamos or cuentámos. In fact,
in some contact varieties we find cuentamos as a form in formal speech.12
In paradigms with syncretisms, such as copulative verb paradigms, the
most frequent verb forms are often not the ones that have most lexical con-
nections in the paradigm. In English, for instance, we assume is [iz] to be the
most frequently occurring of all the present-tense forms. However, are [ar]
has the most lexical connections.13
Neither form has the most unmarked
syllable structure (i.e., CV). If we were to predict which of these forms were
to be present in English-based creole languages, the prediction might be that
[iz] is more likely because the consonant [z] is more frequent and also more
consonantal than [r], and thus more perceptually salient. It turns out, however,
that in the English-based creoles Jamaican, Guyanese, Gullah, Krio, and
Sranan the initial equative copulative verb was not derived from any form
shown in Table 1.7, but from form da (or na), both with CV structure. The
source of these forms is debated, but it seems reasonably safe to say that the
periphrastic do of seventeenth- and eighteenth-century English as well as
forms from African substrate languages are the source of copula da and na.
Pargman (2004:22) argues that the West African substrate languages provided
a selective advantage for the CV form over the competing variants (see also
Ihalainen 1976). For their part, Holm et al. (1999:100) state that ‘the oldest
form of the equative copula before NPs was apparently na (judging from the
conservative nature of the creoles in which this form is found) . . . In the
10
The database used is CREA (Corpus de Referencia de Español Actual) at www.rae.es.
11
The corresponding sentence a gente conta ‘the people say/tell’ is used in Continental Por-
tuguese to refer to the 1pl pres.
12
As an illustration, in a text found on the website Fundación por los Niños del Perú, where
Quechua and Spanish are in contact (see chapter 7), we find the form cuentamos (También
cuentamos con 05 Cunas Jardı́n (centros de cuidado infantil para niños . . .) ‘We also boast
five Garden Cradles (child-care centres . . .).’
13
Frequency counts of is and are were taken from the Linguistic Data Consortium American
English Spoken Lexicon at the University of Pennsylvania (https://online.ldc.upenn.edu/aesl/).
The number of tokens for are is 5,242,695, that of is 10,669,918. That is, although the lexical
connections of are are superior, the lexical strength of is turns out to be twice that of are. The
token frequency of am in the corpus is 191,590, far below that of the other two forms.
1.4 Borrowing vs shift situations 21
English-based creoles of the Caribbean proper, basilectal a [da < na
according to Holm et al.] became mesolectal iz.’ Although Pargman and
Holm et al. do not coincide on the actual source of da and na in the English-
based creoles mentioned above, it is indisputable that a form containing CV
structure was favoured, even though in some registers of these creoles the
most frequently used copula form iz does prevail. I suggest that na or da
emerged as the copula due to its CV structure and in the de-creolization
process iz replaced it in some registers because of its lexical strength. Here,
perceptual salience seems to have been more important than frequency.
As I will discuss in chapter 3, this also seems to be true for reflexes of the
equative copula ser in the Spanish- and Portuguese-based creoles. Although
the 3sg present-tense forms (Spanish es, with variants [es], [eh], and [e], and
Portuguese é) occur roughly six times as frequently as all the other forms
combined, the other forms have the advantage in terms of perceptual salience:
they all contain a CV(C) structure, shown in Table 1.8.14
Table 1.7. Lexical strength vs lexical connections
of present-tense forms of be
I am [æm] you are [a r] (sg) s/he is [iz]
j j
we are [a r]
j j
you are [a r] (pl)
j j
they are [a r]
14
As an example, the frequency counts in two contemporary databases (the CRPC and
CETEMPúblico for Portugal and the PORCUFORT for Brazil (www.geocities.com/Paris/
Cathedral/1036/)) are as follows:
Form
Distribution
Portugal Brazil
CRPC CETEMPúblico PORCUFORT
sou 22 (1.3%) 62 (1.0%) 271 (2.0%)
és – – –
é 1,581 (89.9%) 5136 (81.1%) 12,104 (88.3%)
somos 9 (0.5%) 32 (0.5%) 81 (0.6%)
sois – – –
são 146 (8.3%) 1101 (17.4%) 1,245 (9.1%)
22 Language contact, language learning, and language change
We would expect, then, that if any of these forms came to be part of a
creole lexified by Spanish or Portuguese or in rudimentary immigrant var-
ieties, then perceptual salience would trump the lexical strength of the 2sg
forms. Indeed, in immigrant Spanish and in Portuguese/Spanish-based cre-
oles, although the 3sg present-tense copula form Spanish es ([es], [eh], or [e])
and Portuguese é are roughly six times more frequently used than the other
present-tense forms combined, é is found only in Capeverdean Creole Por-
tuguese, due most likely to the de-creolizing influence of Portuguese. If the
other varieties display any reflex of ser, the form contains a CV structure. For
example, in immigrant Spanish and Makista Creole Portuguese, we find son
and sã, respectively. This suggests, then, that markedness involves frequency,
as well as the most basic sorts of structures found in the world’s languages,
such as CV structure.
As for typological fit, the farther the languages in a contact situation are
from one another typologically, the more difficult it is for speakers to borrow
from one another’s language, or to find common structures in a borrowing or
Table 1.8. Lexical strength (e[s], é) vs lexical connections in the Portuguese
and Spanish copula ser ‘be’
Portuguese Spanish
CV(G) V(C) CV(G/N) V(CVC)
s o u ‘I am’ é s ‘you.sg are’ s o y ‘I am’ e r e s ‘you.sg are’
j j j j j j
j j é ‘s/he is’ j j e (s) ‘s/he is’
s o m o s ‘we are’ s o m o s ‘we are’
j j j
s ã o ‘they are’ j j
s o n ‘they are’
Analogously, the Spanish forms in a contemporary Spanish data base (CREA maintained by
the Real Academia Española, www.rae.es) are comparable.
Form Distribution
soy 23756 (1.9%)
ere(s) 9767 (0.8%)
e(s) 978813 (78.3%)
somos 12563 (1.0%)
sois 1085 (0.1%)
son 223417 (17.9%)
1.4 Borrowing vs shift situations 23
an L2 learning situation. Conversely, the closer two languages are to each
other typologically, the easier the processing would be in a borrowing or an
L2 learning situation. This could be understood as local markedness in that,
if two or more languages in contact share a specific feature, it would be
unmarked for the speakers of those languages. For example, an Italian
speaker would find the acquisition of the preterit–imperfect distinction in
Spanish relatively easy to learn because in this respect Italian and Spanish are
typologically very similar and thus share the distinction. By contrast, a
monolingual native English speaker would find it more challenging to master
the preterit–imperfect distinction in Spanish because English and Spanish are
typologically more distant from one another and thus do not share the feature.
The fact that much or all of what has just been discussed involves either
bilingualism (borrowing-type phenomena) or L2 acquisition (shift-type
phenomena) has significant ramifications for the structure of contact-induced
language change, including immigrant speech and pidgin/creole formation.
In a given speech community in which there is substantial language contact,
the feature pool contains a host of features – both lexical and structural – from
the languages involved. To the extent that the languages in contact are
typologically similar (for example, if they share the features of inflectional
verb morphology), their respective features may reinforce each other in
the feature pool of the speech community, as in the case of the preterit–
imperfect distinction in Spanish and Italian. Lack of a clean typological fit
among languages in a contact situation – as is the case with Quechua
and Spanish, which have been in contact around 500 years – can lead to
the re-analysis of certain particles. A well-known example, discussed in
chapter 7, involves possessor–possessum marking in Andean Spanish. In all
varieties of Quechua, the possessor as well as the possessum is marked, with
the suffixes –pa ‘of’ and –n ‘his/her/their’ respectively. An example of this is
shown in (1.3), taken from Huanuco Quechua (Weber 1989:254), a dialect
spoken in Peru.
(1.3) Hwan-pa wasi-n
Hwan-GEN house-3POSS
‘Hwan’s house’
Of note here are the two obligatory markers of possession, in contrast to
standard Spanish, which only has one, as in (1.4), where the possessive
marker de precedes the possessor. Also, the possessum itself (la casa) pre-
cedes the possessor (Juan).
(1.4) la casa de Juan
the house of Juan
‘Juan’s house’
24 Language contact, language learning, and language change
In several varieties of Andean Spanish, a highly common structure in the
possessive noun phrase is that shown in (1.5), where the possessor (Juan)
does not follow but precedes the possessum, as in Quechua, and where this is
double marking: de marks the possessor and the possessive determiner su
marks the possessum.
(1.5) de Juan su casa
of Juan 3POSS house
‘Juan’s house’
The only structural difference between (1.3) and (1.5) is the placement of the
functional elements: in Quechua they are suffixes, whereas in Andean
Spanish they appear before their respective nouns. In chapter 7, I provide
demographic and other evidence for two varieties of Andean Spanish in
support of the claim that the feature pools in the geographical areas in
question have been historically heavily weighted in favour of Quechua
structures, to the extent that Spanish undergoes noticeable restructuring. What
is intriguing about this particular case is that the Andean Spanish structure in
(1.5) is found in several varieties of Andean Spanish, a re-analysis that has
most likely taken place independently in each area. This observation brings
up the question of how speakers, independently from one another, arrived at
the same structure given similar Spanish input. Although the details are
undoubtedly complex, the general answer is that Quechua speakers learning
Spanish were/are sensitive to double possessive marking because of their
native language and re-analysed the functional elements nearest to the lexical
items denoting the possessor and possessum. They imposed a right-branching
structure on the noun phrase and sought possible candidates in order to map
the functions of –pa ‘of’ and –n ‘his/her/their’ on to them. Given that,
arguably, the Spanish phrases de N ‘of N’ and su N ‘his/her/their N’ occur
frequently as chunks in discourse, it is relatively straightforward to relate
suffixes –pa ‘of’ and –n ‘his/her/their’ to de ‘of’ and su ‘his/her/their’,
especially if the order of the possessor and possessum are altered to match the
order in Quechua. Underlying this type of structural change of the Spanish
possessive noun phrase would be a contact situation more like the one rep-
resented in (1.2) above, in which a predominantly Quechua-speaking com-
munity has learned Spanish to varying degrees, depending on the need to do
so in each case. With Quechua predominance in many areas, at least his-
torically, the presence of Quechua structural features must have been con-
siderably stronger than the corresponding Spanish structural features. Finally,
the mapping was probably aided by the fact that the elements su and de
exhibit CV structure and are thus relatively easy to perceive. Thus, perceptual
salience and frequency of occurrence seem to have played a role in the
creation of a Spanish structure such as (1.5) in Andean Spanish.
1.4 Borrowing vs shift situations 25
1.5 Concluding remarks
In this chapter, I have sketched out a view of language consonant with a type of
Emergent Grammar model in which linguistic structure is created through
routinization; and routinization is made possible by frequency of use of certain
elements or structures through communication in discourse. In constructing
this view, the notion of speech community becomes important. Following
Croft (2000) and Mufwene (2001), I consider a language to be analogous to a
biological species and a speech community as a group of intercommunicating
individuals, parallel to an interbreeding population in biology.
Regarding the actual formation and development of linguistic structure, I
align myself with Goldberg’s (1999) view in which grammar emerges pri-
marily during acquisition, affected by a combination of linguistic input,
functional demands of communication, and general cognitive abilities and
constraints. In acquiring or building a grammar, both in L1 or L2 acquisition,
I follow Bates and Goodman (1999) in assuming that we use several different
types of bootstrapping, building more complex structures upon simpler, more
basic ones. This happens, I argue, not only in parent-to-offspring language
transmission, but – importantly – in adult-to-adult communication, as well.
In a language contact situation in which a new language variety emerges,
such as immigrant varieties, pidgins, and creoles, these same principles apply:
language structure emerges through language use in discourse and is shaped
by functional demands of communication and cognitive abilities/constraints,
including processing and production constraints. Moreover, I maintain that
language use and processing constraints in contact situations interact with
universal markedness constraints and the typological fit of the languages in
contact to further shape the emerging linguistic system. The more universally
unmarked a feature is, the more easily processable it is and thus the more
likely it is to be found in an immigrant variety, a pidgin, or a creole (see
Thomason and Kaufman 1988). I discussed the example of CV structure in
the choice of the copula in some English-, Spanish- and Portuguese-based
contact language varieties and found that CV – a universally unmarked
structure – can play a major role in the emerging syllable structure of a
language contact variety. Typological fit among languages in contact also has
an impact on the make-up of an emerging language. It turns out that even
relatively marked features such as inflectional morphology can find their way
into language contact varieties if they are shared by the languages in contact.
In general, in order to understand how language contact varieties form, we
will need to know at least the following:
(1) content and structural features of the languages involved in the contact
situation;
26 Language contact, language learning, and language change
(2) the number of languages and the number of speakers of each language;
(3) relative markedness of the competing features in the feature pool;
(4) dominance relations among the different language group speakers; and
(5) the access to the feature pool of the different speakers.
In chapter 2, I briefly discuss how Spanish and Portuguese came to be
considered languages in their own right, which will then set the stage for the
beginning of the colonization of Africa, the Americas, and Asia. In the
subsequent chapters, I apply the model outlined here with the goal of arriving
at a more in-depth understanding of some of the key structures in several
Portuguese- and Spanish-based contact varieties that emerged in the process of
language contact.
1.5 Concluding remarks 27
2 The general socio-historical context
of Portuguese and Castilian
2.1 The Romanization of the Iberian peninsula
In contrast to Gaul, which Caesar conquered in just ten years, Iberia, defying
the best Roman generals, succumbed to Rome only after a bitter struggle
spanning more than two centuries. In fact, during most of the 202 years
between 218 BCE and 16 BCE, it is not an overstatement to say that Iberia
was a war zone (Curchin 1991:7).
Before the soldiers of Rome reached Iberia in 218 BCE, speaking collo-
quial varieties of Oscan, Umbrian, and Latin, the Iberian peninsula was
inhabited by numerous tribes. In the west and north of the peninsula were the
people the classical writers describe as Celtic, who had been in the region as
early as the ninth century BCE, though they may have arrived in various
waves (Tovar 1977:121–122). In the south-west lived the Lusitanians, and the
Galicians inhabited the north-western corner of the peninsula. Whereas the
language of the Lusitanians may have been pre-Celtic, or an early Celtic
language, that of the Galicians (Callaeci) was definitely Celtic, possibly a
more recent variety than that of the Lusitanians (ibid.:109–110). The differ-
ences between their languages notwithstanding, the Lusitanians and Galicians
were quite similar to one another in the degree and form of their civilization
(de Oliveira Marques 1972:17).
In the north-central part of the peninsula lived the Basques, who spoke a
non-Indo-European language. The central region of Iberia was inhabited by
various tribes collectively known as the Celtiberians, who spoke varieties
of Celtic (Tovar 1977:105–106), and in the south-central area were the
Tartesians. For their part, the Iberians inhabited the eastern coast, up to
the current border with France. Both the Tartesians and Iberians spoke non-
Indo-European languages, and the Iberians had developed a script.
The Romanization of the Iberian peninsula took place in stages. The initial
reason for Rome’s incursions into Iberia was to defeat the Carthaginians
stationed on the eastern seaboard and in the valley of the River Baetis
(Guadalquivir) (218–202 BCE), who were perceived by the Romans as
wanting to monopolize trade in that area. After expelling the Carthaginians,
28
the Romans maintained their continued presence on the peninsula, necessary
in order to keep them from regaining a foothold in the area. The Tartesians
and Iberians, accustomed to interacting with foreigners, not only adapted well
to the presence of the Romans, but also readily assimilated to Roman culture,
quickly abandoning their own languages and cultures, and shifting to the
Latin variety spoken by the Romans stationed in Spain. Between 201 and
16 BCE, the other peoples on the Iberian peninsula fought Rome’s domin-
ation bitterly. In 197 BCE, Rome divided the peninsula into Hispania
Citerior, ‘nearer Hispania’ – comprising, roughly, the territory inhabited by
the Iberians, Celtiberians, and Galicians – and Hispania Ulterior, ‘farther
Hispania’, the territory inhabited by the Lusitanians and Tartesians. The
war against Lusitania was waged from 155 to 138 BCE, the Celtiberian war
was fought during the period 153–133 BCE, the north-west campaigns
against the Galicians 138–136 BCE, and the final Cantabrian war took place
between 26 and 16 BCE. It was probably after the Cantabrian mountains in
Tarragona
Córdoba
Mérida
G
u
a
d
i
a
n
a
Osuna
Calatayud
Galicians B a sq u e s
Tartesians
L
u
s
i
t
a
n
i
ans
I
b
e
r
i
a
n
s
C
e l t i b e r i a n s
Map 2.1. Distribution of peoples in the pre-Roman Iberian peninsula.
2.1 The Romanization of the Iberian peninsula 29
north-central Iberia were taken by the Romans that the peninsula was divided
into three provinces: Hispania Ulterior was subdivided into Baetica (capital in
Corduba (Córdoba)) and Lusitania (capital in Emerita Augusta (Mérida)).
Roughly speaking, Hispania Citerior was renamed as Tarraconensis (its
capital in Tarraco (Tarragona)).
By the early first century CE there were nine Roman colonies in Baetica,
eight in Tarraconensis, and four in Lusitania. An inscription from one of these
colonies – the colonia Genetiva Iulia at Urso (Osuna), which contains
material from the time of its foundation under Julius Caesar – shows a
community of Roman citizens with their own magistrates and religious
officials, a town council, and common land assigned to the town. We can
assume that Roman colonies in the peninsula had this general structure and
that at least some of the indigenous people assimilated to the new order,
becoming Roman citizens. Evidence for this includes the facts that the
philosopher Lucius Annaeus Seneca (c. 4 BCE–CE 65) was originally from
Corduba, that the poet Martial (c. CE 38–c. 103) was born at Bilbilis (near
Calatayud), and that senators Trajan and Hadrian were both from Italica
colony near Seville. These last two later went on to become emperors (CE
98–117 and 117–138, respectively).
Even around 50 BCE, i.e., only 150 years after the arrival of the Romans
in the peninsula, we find comments such as that of a Greek grammarian
Artemidor from Ephesus, who had settled in Hispania to teach. He com-
mented that the inhabitants of Baetica saw themselves as Romans in that they
had given up their own customs and language to take on those of their Roman
conquerors. Cicero (106–43 BCE) mentions that the poets from Corduba
appreciated the Roman consul Metellus’ poetry. These poets, it is stated,
spoke Latin with a local accent (Tovar 1977:87–88).
While the assimilation of the Tartesian and Iberian populations took place
relatively swiftly and completely, that of the rest of Hispania’s people did not.
In sharp contrast to the early use of Latin names among the indigenous
population in inscriptions (also in Latin) from both Baetica and Tarraco-
nensis, in Lusitania the use of indigenous languages for names and inscrip-
tions was the norm. And even though the inscriptions throughout central and
north-western Iberia were eventually written in Latin, pre-Roman words were
used in them, words that found their way into Portuguese and Castilian. Some
examples include: paramus ‘desert highland’, probably of Celtic origin
(cf. Old Portuguese parámio (or paranho) ‘house in ruins’, Castilian páramo
‘highland desert’) found in toponyms and Latin inscriptions in the central and
north-west regions of the peninsula; lausa ‘slate’, also of probable Celtic
origin (cf. Portuguese lousa and Castilian losa ‘stone slate’), which was found
in a mining law text in southern Portugal; cama ‘cot’ (cf. Portuguese and
Castilian cama ‘bed’); sarna ‘mange’ (Portuguese and Castilian sarna
30 The general socio-historical context of Portuguese and Castilian
‘mange’). These last two words, of Celtic origin, were found in the Latin
writings of highly educated people of that time, such as the philosopher
Isidore of Seville (560(?)–636) (Tovar 1977:93–94). There are lexical items
not found in such sources, but which nevertheless are pre-Roman, and
possibly Celtic. Corominas (1954:433–435) comments on one such word,
Portuguese morcela and Castilian morcilla ‘blood sausage made with pig
intestine’, which very likely were once diminutive forms derived from Celtic
*murca ‘animal intestine’, which in turn seems to be related to Welsh migwrn
‘knuckle, joint’, Breton migourn, -orn ‘cartilage’, and Gaelic mugairn ‘joint’.
Apart from the lexical evidence, there is interesting phonological evidence
of the Celtic (i.e., Lusitanian, Galician, and/or Celtiberian) influence on
Portuguese and Castilian. We know that mutations involving lenition are
currently used extensively in Celtic languages to mark morphological dis-
tinctions (e.g., Irish cù /ku:/ ‘dog’ -a chù /e
xu:/ ‘his dog’; or Welsh ci /ki:/
‘dog’ -ei gi /i gi:/ ‘his dog’). In the past, today’s morphologized mutations in
Tarragona
Córdoba
Mérida
G
u
a
d
i
a
n
a
Osuna
Calatayud
Baetica
L
u
s
i
t
a
n
i
a
T
a
r
r
a
c
o
n
e
n
s
i
s
Map 2.2. General areas of the Roman Iberian peninsula.
2.1 The Romanization of the Iberian peninsula 31
Celtic languages were conceivably active phonological processes. We know
that the sonorization of voiceless stops in central and north-western Iberia
(e.g., pratu > prado ‘meadow’) had already begun to take place in 27 CE
(Tovar, cited in Baldinger 1972:242), although Tovar (1977:93) places it
somewhat later, around the second–third century CE. He attributes the
western Romance sonorization to Celtic lenition in a situation of Latin–Celtic
language bilingualism, presenting a large amount of evidence in favour of his
argument (see also Tovar 1954, 1955, 1967). Tovar also suggests that the
deletion of intervocalic -n- in Galician and Portuguese (CANE(M) > cão
‘dog’), although it does not show up before the ninth century, may be linked
to Celtic influence, as it appears initially only in the north-west of the pen-
insula, and in no other early Iberian Romance varieties, such as Mozarabic
(Baldinger 1972:165–166).
Summarizing, we can conclude that, between roughly 100 BCE and 300
CE, the Celtiberians, Lusitanians, and Galicians began acquiring some variety
of Latin and gradually became bilingual in their respective native Celtic
varieties and Latin. It is important to note that the acquisition of Latin was a
slow process with much resistance on the part of the indigenous people of
central and north-west Iberia. For example, as late as the first century CE,
there is attestation of Celtiberians still being competent in their native lan-
guage. Tacitus (cited in Tovar 1977:124) writes about an indigenous person
who cried out in his mother tongue while being tortured near the region of
Guadalajara. ‘It is therefore understandable’, writes Tovar (ibid.), ‘that during
the centuries of bilingualism western [pre-Roman] traits found their way into
the Romance varieties’ (my translation).
The foregoing still does not tell the whole story. That is, although it
addresses the question of substrate influence, it does not account for the
relative uniformity evident in the Latin that evolved into Portuguese and
Castilian. Tovar (1977:95) offers a reasonable explanation for this:
The traits of those Romance dialects of the Iberian peninsula that would have survived,
i.e., those found in Spanish, in Portuguese, and in Catalan, Valencian, and Balearic,
would have been, as far as we are able to judge from the Mozarabic dialects, less
western and would have shared more characteristics with Italian if the Arabic invasion
had not taken place, which gave a different direction to the foreseeable development of
Latin in Spain. It altered the cultural reference points in that the influential centres of
Mérida, Toledo, Seville, Cartagena, Tarragona, Zaragoza, and Lisbon were replaced by
Oviedo, León, Burgos, Compostela, Braga, and Old Catalonia with Barcelona. The
dominance of the Moors gave the northern regions, with the push of the re-conquest,
predominance in the creation of new languages (my translation).
The consequence of this historical development was that the centres of
linguistic influence were all in the north of the peninsula and were relatively
more closely grouped (with the exception of Old Catalonia) than the centres
32 The general socio-historical context of Portuguese and Castilian
that could have been influential in the south. Tovar suggests that this accounts
for the lexical material shared by Galician/Portuguese and Castilian, an
illustrative list of which is given in (2.1).
(2.1) Portuguese and Castilian Catalan (with French)
comer ‘eat’ menjar ‘eat’ (Fr. manger)
dar ‘give’ donar ‘give’ (Fr. donner)
falar, hablar ‘speak’ parlar ‘speak’ (Fr. parler)
ir ‘go’ anar ‘go’ (Fr. aller)
madeira, madera ‘wood’ fusta ‘wood’ (Fr. bois)
mesa ‘table’ taula ‘table’ (Fr. table)
mulher, mujer ‘woman, wife’ dona ‘woman, wife’ (Fr. femme)
ouvir, oı́r ‘hear, listen’ sentir ‘hear, listen’ (Fr. entendre)
perguntar, preguntar ‘ask’ demanar ‘ask’ (Fr. demander)
perna, pierna ‘leg’ cama ‘leg’ (Fr. jambe)
querer ‘want’ voler ‘want’ (Fr. vouloir)
In each of these cases, the Latin reflexes of the Portuguese and Castilian are
of an older variety than those found in Catalan and often also in French, the
latter two reflecting a more recent variety of Latin. While this pattern is clear,
there is evidence for another pattern as well, one that unites the peripheral
languages (including Romanian) against those in the centre. For example,
Portuguese, Spanish, Catalan, and Romanian share the lexical item ‘more’
(mais, más, mes, and mai, respectively) compared to French plus and Italian
più. However, this does not diminish the fact that Portuguese and Castilian
often share lexical items that Catalan does not have.
Given this brief synoptic view of the Romanization in Hispania, we know
that the language varieties known as Iberian and Tartesian ceased to exist as
their respective speakers shifted to Latin, a process completed by approxi-
mately 50 BCE (or in about six generations, where a generation is calculated
as a unit of twenty-five years), and with no resistance on the part of the
shifting speakers. We can infer from various sources that the Celtic varieties of
Lusitanian, Galician, and Celtiberian, although they endured much longer due
to the fierce resistance on the part of their speakers against the Roman con-
querors/colonizers, ceased to be spoken for the most part between 200–300 CE.
Due to the defiant attitude of these speech communities and their numerical
superiority vis-à-vis the Romans in Spain, we might expect to find the
presence of pre-Roman lexical features in non-core vocabulary rather than in
core vocabulary and more so in the lexical inventory than in derivational or
inflectional material. That is, we would first expect to find non-core lexical
items that reflect the Celtic, Lusitanian, and/or Celtiberian cultures or their
surroundings prior to the arrival of the Romans. By non-core vocabulary,
I mean those lexical items that do not form part of core vocabulary lists
such as the one developed by Comrie and Smith (1977) or the Swadesh list.
2.1 The Romanization of the Iberian peninsula 33
Non-core lexical items are indeed present in Central and Western Iberian
Romance. Above, I mentioned Old Portuguese paranho, ‘house in ruins’,
Castilian páramo ‘highland desert’; Portuguese lousa, Castilian losa ‘stone
slate’; Portuguese and Castilian cama ‘bed’; Portuguese and Castilian sarna
‘mange’; Portuguese morcela, Castilian morcilla ‘blood sausage made with
pig intestine’. Another is Portuguese cerveja, Castilian cerveza ‘beer’, related
to Middle Irish coirm (Corominas 1954, and found in Latin since Pliny (23–79
CE)). Other examples are found in Lapesa (1981:46–52).
In a typical shift situation, which generally happens in three to six gen-
erations and in which the shifting population is a minority numerically and
otherwise, we would expect to find no core vocabulary in the variety of
speech of the shifting speakers once the shift is completed. However, the
situation at hand was one of assumed extensive bilingualism over a period of
time spanning centuries, ending in the eventual language shift in a community
that was arguably numerically superior to the group whose language they
were shifting to. In such a case, the ‘lexical pool’ (a subpart of the feature
pool that existed during the extended period of bilingualism) would be
weighted in favour of the varieties of the shifting speakers, and it should not
be surprising also to find some core vocabulary in the lexicon of their variety
of Romance, that is, some core vocabulary items in Spanish and Portuguese
of pre-Roman origin.1
Based on Comrie and Smith’s (1977) core vocabulary
list, we find two pre-Roman core vocabulary items in West and Central
Iberian Romance (and thus in Portuguese and/or Spanish), namely Castilian
manteca, Portuguese manteiga ‘grease, fat’ and Castilian perro ‘dog’.
Another strong indication of extensive bilingualism, and thus a rich bi- or
multi-lingual feature pool, is the presence of pre-Roman morphology in
Central and Western Iberian Romance. In Iberian Celtic varieties, nouns with
-o as their thematic vowel formed the nominative plural with -os. This entered
into the feature pool with other suffixes from the pre-Roman and Latin nouns.
The numerically best represented Latin nouns were arguably those from the
second declension, with the thematic vowel in -us (-us, -i, -o, -um, -o; -i, -orum,
-is, -os, -is). The result was that thematic nouns in -o in Portuguese and Cas-
tilian now form their plural in -os (analogous to the accusative plural suffix in
Latin) instead of -i (the nominative plural suffix in Latin). The pejorative pre-
Roman derivational suffixes -orro, -urro as in machorro ‘macho man’ and
baturro ‘oaf, redneck’ must have been well represented to survive in Castilian
(of Mediterranean origin, according to Lapesa (1981:44)). The same can be
said for the pre-Celtic or Celtic suffixes -aiko, -aecu, which are well attested
in Hispania’s inscriptions and found in Castilian -iego, as in mujeriego
‘womanizing (adj.), womanizer (n.)’, palaciego ‘palatial (adj.), courtier (n.)’.
1
I am using the term ‘feature pool’ in Mufwene’s (2001) sense. See Table 1.2.
34 The general socio-historical context of Portuguese and Castilian
Other features due to contact-induced language change may also be
attributable to Celtic-language influence. Features attributed to one or more of
the languages in Hispania Ulterior (e.g., Lusitanian, Galician, Celtiberian)
are the change of word-initial PL-, CL-, FL- > [č] > [š] in Portuguese
(PLOVERE > chover, CLAMARE > chamar, FLAMMA > chama), and >
[k] in Castilian (llover, llamar, llama respectively), and the loss of -n- in
Galician and Portuguese (LUNA(M) > lúa ‘moon’, CANE(M) > cão ‘dog’).
Finding such phonetic particularities is not surprising given the nature of the
shift situation described above.
By the fourth, or at the latest the fifth, century CE, the speakers of all pre-
Roman languages on the Iberian peninsula, i.e., Iberian, Tartesian, Lusitanian,
and Celtiberian, and the Celtic Galician varieties, had probably become
extinct. There remained only speakers of Iberian Romance, which arguably
had a wide range of heterogeneity across the peninsula, depending on the
substrate language(s) involved in the shifting process of the different speech
communities (Penny 2000).2
By the time the Roman Empire fell into decadence around the fourth cen-
tury, all areas in Iberia except the mountainous regions of the Basque country
were Romanized. It is conceivable that the early Iberian Romance spoken
varieties were mutually intelligible to a large extent. That is, the dialectal
differences around the fourth century were arguably not enough to have created
language speciation of Iberian Romance. At this stage, one could say we
are dealing with a series of linguistic demes or races rather than species.
The boundaries of these races would be found primarily along geographical
boundaries of the peninsula, and secondarily along Roman administrative
boundaries. The subsequent Germanic invasions (415–711) into the peninsula
undertaken by the Visigoths, Suebes, and Vandals added some administrative
boundaries, which would become important later. Linguistically, however, the
Germanic presence in the Iberian Romance languages is limited to lexical
items such as war-related esporas ‘spur’ (Ptg.) espuelas ‘spurs’ (Cast.), guerra
‘war’ (Ptg. and Cast.), yelmo ‘helmet’ (Cast.), etc.
The Moorish invasion from northern Africa was, however, another matter,
as Tovar points out in the quotation given above. After Muslim Moors
conquered Iberia (711–719 CE), most Christians relocated to the northern part
of the peninsula, where the enclaves they formed later turned into princi-
palities or kingdoms that eventually undertook the centuries-long struggle of
re-conquering the peninsula. It is during this process that speciation of the
2
However, one must also keep in mind that the Celtic tribes were nomadic at least up until the
first century BCE (Tovar 1977:109) and most likely later on as well. This might have created a
certain koiné effect in the areas inhabited by Celtic-language speakers, similar to the one
described by Mufwene (2001:28, 211) for dialects in the colonization of the United States. This
will not be explored further here.
2.1 The Romanization of the Iberian peninsula 35
Iberian Romance varieties took place. The political developments of the
re-conquest were instrumental in the speciation of Portuguese, Castilian,
Catalan, etc. Recall that speciation, as understood here, does not depend on
linguistic criteria but rather is defined in terms of population genetics. That is,
in a population-genetic definition the important aspect is which people see
themselves as being able to communicate with whom. That is, by this def-
inition ‘every speaker perceived every other speaker as someone he or she
should be able to communicate with by using what they perceive as the same
language’ (Croft 2000:18). As long as this perception held among speakers,
although they were of different clans, there would be no speciation by
definition. I suggest that the conversational isolation that led to speciation on
the Iberian peninsula was significantly helped along by, if not entirely a
consequence of, the formation of counties, principalities, and kingdoms. The
formation of these political entities led to a certain development of awareness
on the part of the people, which in turn led them to recognize that what they
spoke was different from the variety spoken by people in another kingdom,
principality, or county (see also Posner 1993).
With specific regard to the speciation of Portuguese and Castilian, prior to
the Moorish invasion, two general though diverse groups were distinguished
in the far western part of the peninsula: the Lusitanians in the south-west and
Galicians in the north-west (de Oliveira Marques 1972). At the time of the
Moorish colonization, these two groups spoke two general varieties of what
would become Portuguese. As a consequence of the Moorish presence,
speakers of these two varieties were pushed together and the dialectal dif-
ferences apparently levelled to a degree (de Oliveira Marques 1998:18;
compare also Mufwene 2001:28, 211). It was due to issues of royal succes-
sion in the Christian enclave in Galicia that Portugal became a county in 1094
and a kingdom in 1179. The Portuguese language of today is considered by
some to be Galician of the re-conquest (Eugenio Coseriu, personal commu-
nication, 17 October 1977).
The speciation of Portuguese and Castilian as separate languages, then, was
a function not primarily of linguistic differentiation, but rather of socio-
political differentiation, a process that led to relative isolation in communi-
cative intercourse (analogous to reproductive isolation in biology), which in
turn led to greater linguistic differentiation among the two communities of
speakers. I will briefly sketch the main developments that led up to the socio-
political divisions and the subsequent linguistic differentiation.
2.2 The formation of Portuguese and Castilian
In chapter 1, I spoke of language situations in which two distinct linguistic
varieties are seen as one language, even though they belong to two different
36 The general socio-historical context of Portuguese and Castilian
nations and display some significant differences in phonology, morphosyntax,
and the lexicon. Such is the case, I suggested, with the oral varieties of
Continental and Brazilian Portuguese, which although substantially different
are considered to constitute one and the same language, arguably due to
relatively strong cultural, social, and political ties between Brazil and
Portugal. In population-theoretic terms, these varieties may be considered
polytypic languages, because they are thought of as one language despite
their considerable linguistic differences.
The differences between the current oral varieties of Portuguese spoken in
Brazil and Portugal can be compared roughly to those differences that dis-
tinguished the varieties of Iberian Romance (eighth–eleventh centuries) that
were spoken in the north of the Iberian peninsula from the far north-west to
the north-central area. Leguay, de Oliveira Marques, and Beirante (1993:206)
liken the differences among the various Iberian Romance dialects between the
eighth and eleventh centuries to those that exist today among the Portuguese
dialects from the Minho in the north of the country to the Algarve in
the south, which are more alike than Continental and Brazilian Portuguese are
today. The question then becomes: how did the original dialects that came to
be spoken in Portugal and Castile evolve into distinct languages whereas
other varieties, such as those spoken in León or Asturias, did not? A crucial
part of the answer to this question has to do with the development of Portugal
and Castile as powerful kingdoms. In other words, the answer has more to do
with socio-politics than with linguistic differentiation. In fact, linguistic dif-
ferentiation and language speciation most likely were a consequence of the
political divisions.3
Starting with the first victory of the re-conquest found in the chronicles,
Pelayo won in the Battle of Covadonga in 722, which resulted in the origin of
the kingdom of Asturias. The reign of Alphonse I, Pelayo’s son-in-law, began
thereafter, during which he made incursions into Galicia and the Douro
Valley. During the long reign of Alphonse II (791–842), the fourth successor
after Alphonse I, the kingdom of Asturias took shape and simultaneously
opened towards Europe. After the extraordinarily successful reign of
Alphonse III (866–911), this monarch was forced to divide up his kingdom
into three, thus creating the kingdoms of Galicia, León, and Asturias. At this
3
Another question that must be addressed is: despite seven centuries of Arabization, Arabic
never managed to be completely dominant, even in the southern part of the peninsula where
between the eighth and eleventh centuries the Arabic language and culture were dominant in
Al Andaluz, from the Mediterranean to the Atlantic. Why could Arabic not dominate entirely?
The answer is that the Christians successfully resisted complete Arabization, maintaining their
religious and cultural identity intact. In fact, the only clear vestige of Arabic in Portuguese and
Spanish is the lexical items that we find in both languages (see Dozy and Engelman 1965;
Maillo Salgado 1983).
2.2 The formation of Portuguese and Castilian 37
point, there were two border regions, Portugal on the extreme west and
Castile east of Asturias, between which were the territories of Galicia, León,
and Asturias. As Leguay, de Oliveira Marques, and Beirante (1993:258) note,
the city of Portucale (the Porto of today) was occupied by Christians, and by
938 CE the name gradually came to refer to the territory surrounding the city.
At around the same time, in 943 CE, Fernán González became the count of
Castile. Over roughly the following 100 years there were internal struggles
among the Christian kingdoms and counties, as well as attacks from the
Normans coming from the north and the Islamic northern Africans from the
south. In 1035, Fernando Magno became the first king of Castile. Meanwhile,
Portucale was lost and re-conquered again, becoming a political entity, a
county in 1094 and a kingdom in 1179 (Leguay, de Oliveira Marques, and
Beirante 1993:263 and de Oliveira Marques 1998:35–37).
In discussing the beginnings of the state of Portugal, de Oliveira Marques
(1998:27) refers to ‘Portucale’, but he states that it was pronounced Portugal
in the dialect spoken at that time (938 CE). At around 950 CE, when Portugal
and Castile were taking shape as political entities, Sarton (1927, cited in
Deutsch 1968:599) notes that there were in Europe at that time only six full-
fledged languages, that is, languages with a written grammar, a literature, and
some use in business and public administration. They were Latin, Greek,
Hebrew, Arabic, Anglo-Saxon, and Church Slavonic. Three hundred years
later (1250 CE), seventeen languages were flourishing in Europe: apart from
Latin, Greek, Hebrew, Arabic, and Church Slavonic, there were High German,
Low German, French, Icelandic, Russian, Castilian (Sarton uses ‘Spanish’),
Portuguese, Catalan, Italian, Norwegian, Danish, and Swedish. On the Iberian
peninsula, all three Romance vernaculars mentioned in the list (Portuguese,
Castilian, Catalan) were attached to a kingdom, Portugal, Castile, and Cata-
lonia, respectively. By 1250 CE, the varieties that around 1000 CE were
dialects spoken in Portucale and Castile had developed into languages. The
reason Deutsch (1968:602–603) offers for the speciation of Dutch, Flemish,
and German is also applicable to the speciation of Portuguese and Castilian:
‘It was not at first these languages that made history; it was history that made
these languages.’ That is, the importance of social, political, and cultural
considerations is such that they define a language, which follows from the
population-theoretic definition of a species as advanced by Croft (2000) and
Mufwene (2001). As pointed out in chapter 1, the population definition of a
language implies that every speaker views other speakers as people s/he can
communicate with in what everyone involved perceives as the same language
(Croft 2000:18). Crucial in this definition is the interaction between indi-
viduals in the community of speakers. Communicative intercourse in a
population depends not only on the degree of structural similarity of the
varieties spoken, but also on the communicative behaviour of the speakers.
38 The general socio-historical context of Portuguese and Castilian
In the case of the incipient political entities of Portugal and Castile, their
becoming kingdoms created a consciousness of belonging among the speech
communities as defined by the political borders of the kingdoms. Given that
the kingdoms were often in conflict with one another, especially earlier on,
identities of self and the other were forged in these politically defined speech
communities. Over time, the politically defined territories came to shape the
definition of the respective communities, not only politically but culturally
and linguistically as well. But the process began with the political definition
of territoriality. In this way, it can be said that history defined the language
communities in question.
2.3 Developments leading up to the colonization
of Africa and Asia
By the fourteenth century, both Portuguese and Castilian had become full-
fledged languages. By this time, the kingdoms of Castile and Portugal had also
been at battle both with one another and with the Moors. Out of these conflicts,
numerous reasons emerged in both Portugal and Castile for carrying the fight
beyond their respective southern borders into Africa. One was the wish on the
part of the aristocrats in both kingdoms to extend the Reconquista to Morocco
in order to acquire more land. Perhaps more important, however, was that both
Portugal and Castile were in need of a steady source of North African grain
because of a low supply on the peninsula. The most pressing motive, however,
for aristocrats as well as the bourgeoisie, was a desperate need for gold ‘to meet
the overwhelming deficit which threatened to destroy the economy’ (Chaunu
1979:104). During the final 250 years of the re-conquest, roughly 1250 to 1500
CE, both Portugal and Castile spent enormous sums of money to re-conquer
and re-populate the southern half of the Iberian peninsula. Moreover, from
1350 to 1389, Castile – and to a lesser extent Portugal – were obliged to deal
with the expenses of the Castilian phase of the Hundred Years War (MacKay
1977:121–125). Thus, the economic woes of these powers made expeditions to
northern Africa not just attractive but necessary. The search for slaves, sugar,
and spices also became important as time went on.
Even before 1350, the Portuguese and Castilians had begun to deploy their
naval power to explore further out into the Atlantic. Although Genoese
explorers are said to have arrived there first, a Spaniard made first claim to the
Canary Islands in 1344, and en route to the Canaries in 1341 a Portuguese
expedition happened upon the unoccupied Azores Islands for the first time
(Chaunu 1979:105). But it was not until the 1440s that these islands were settled
and exploited. Like the initial exploring impulse, the settlement of these islands
and the subsequent construction of sugar plantations on them were spurred
by ‘unusual economic difficulty and stagnation’ on the peninsula (ibid.:107).
2.3 Developments in the colonization of Africa and Asia 39
At the beginning of the fifteenth century, the Castilians began to prepare
for a long trade war with the Hanseatic League of north European towns,
a war in which the Portuguese did not participate. Because of this, the
Portuguese were in a better position than their Castilian counterparts to
expand into Africa. In 1415, the Portuguese king Henry the Navigator crossed
the straits of Gibraltar and took Ceuta in northern Africa, thereby launching
the Portuguese colonization of the west coast of the African continent. And
with each trip, Portugal’s ships travelled a bit further south along the West
African coast. Chaunu (1979:111–112) distinguishes four main stages in the
Portuguese exploration and settlement of the West African coast. Stage one,
1415–1434, from the conquest of Ceuta up until the rounding of Cape
Bojador, was marked by cautious progress. During stage two, 1434–1444, the
Portuguese moved from Cape Bojador to the Cape Verde Islands. In stage
three, 1444–1475, with a more refined knowledge of sailing on the open sea,
the Portuguese were able to reach around the coast of Sierra Leone to the
Congo. Finally, during stage four, 1475–1498, Bartholomew Diaz rounded
the Cape of Good Hope and Vasco da Gama found his way up the eastern
coast of Africa to Mombasa, and in 1498 ventured across the Arabian Sea to
the tip of the Indian subcontinent, with the help of Ahmed-ben-Madjid, a
well-known Arabian navigator who was purportedly an expert on the navi-
gation of India (Serrão 1978:100, de Oliveira Marques 1998:207).
The settlement of a large part of the west coast of India (Cochin, Calicut,
Goa, Chaul, Bassein, and Diu, among other areas), as well as Sri Lanka, was
accomplished by 1550. Daman – which gave the most resistance – fell in
1559, and by 1581 it was recognized as a Portuguese city. The Portuguese
moved quickly to the east, founding settlements in Malaysia (Malacca),
Indonesia (Sumatra, Ternate, and Timor, among others), and China (Macau)
well before the end of the sixteenth century.
In contrast to the Portuguese, after 1389 the Castilians were committed
politically and commercially to two fronts: the Mediterranean and southwards
on the one hand, and the Atlantic coast from the Bay of Biscay (in con-
junction with the Basques) to Flanders and northwards on the other. In the
southern waters, the Castilians and the Portuguese were already old rivals;
they put their energies into maritime expansion at around the same time and,
as alluded to above, for roughly the same reasons. Castile had earlier taken
the Canary Islands (1341–1344), and by the beginning of the fifteenth century
was already beginning to use Seville as a depot for trading in slaves from the
Canaries (MacKay 1977:131). MacKay states:
Throughout the fifteenth century, the disputes over colonial possession affected all the
diplomatic negotiations between the two powers and even spilled over into clashes in
the general Council of the Church which sat intermittently at Basle [in Switzerland]
from 1431 to 1449.
40 The general socio-historical context of Portuguese and Castilian
As the clashes between the two Iberian powers continued, Portuguese dip-
lomacy at the papal court led to the highly important papal bull Romanus
Pontifex in 1455, guaranteeing Portugal the Guinean coast and islands south
of Cape Bojador. Another papal bull in 1481 granted the Canaries to the
Castilians. When in 1493 Columbus returned triumphantly from his famous
voyage to the New World, the Catholic kings of Castile took advantage of
their influence with the new pope Alexander VI to have several new papal
bulls issued, granting Castile all territory west of the Cape Verde Islands.
King João of Portugal, however, promptly pointed out that no Castilian ship
could leave port with safe passage west because it would have to travel
through Portuguese waters. João thus forced the Treaty of Tordesillas in 1494,
whereby the Portuguese laid claim to all territory east of a line that was drawn
370 leagues west of the Cape Verde Islands. This allotted most of what would
later become Brazil to Portugal, and – together with a second treaty – it gave
to Castile what would be the Philippines (Willis 1993:24–26).
This global rush to empire on the part of the two Iberian powers set the
stage for the introduction of Spanish and Portuguese into Africa, Asia, and the
Americas. This book will examine some of the results of the introduction of
Spanish and Portuguese to these continents. One basic part of this linguistic
expansion involves the naturalistic learning of Spanish and Portuguese by
the colonized people. It is reasonable, then, that we begin our discussion of
contact-induced varieties of Spanish and Portuguese by examining immigrant
speech. In the next chapter, I look at some key aspects of Portuguese- and
Spanish-based creoles and how they relate to immigrant speech.
2.3 Developments in the colonization of Africa and Asia 41
3 Portuguese- and Spanish-lexified
creole languages
3.1 Introduction
Portugal’s linguistic legacy in the world was essentially established by 1550,
about 135 years after Portugal began its maritime expansion to Africa, Asia,
and the Americas. Varieties of Portuguese or derived from Portuguese are not
only spoken as official languages in a number of nations (Portugal, Brazil,
Cape Verde, Angola, Mozambique), but also found in numerous communities
from West Africa to India, to Malaysia, and Macau. Rather than attempting
to survey all the Portuguese- and Spanish-lexified creole languages, I have
chosen to examine two phenomena in this chapter: affixal tense–aspect
markers (TMAs) and grammatical/semantic relation markers (G/SRMs).
These two groups of markers were chosen in order to illustrate two funda-
mentally different outcomes in contact-induced language change, as well as
to examine the extent to which universal processes were involved in the
formation of these creoles.
To be able to talk about the emergence of the tense–aspect markers in the
creole languages under consideration, I give in section 3.2 a brief overview of
the external ecology of fifteenth- and sixteenth-century Portugal, the socio-
historical background which led to the formation of restructured varieties
of Portuguese that constituted one of the bases of pidgin Portuguese. In
section 3.3, I focus on the presence of affixal tense–aspect markers, the
presence of which in some of the creoles is most revealingly understood,
I argue, within the backdrop of the demographic make-up of Portugal during
that time. In section 3.4, I examine the anomalies in the case-marking systems
of Portuguese- and Spanish-based creoles: as noted by Croft (1991) – who
shows that natural languages avoid certain syncretisms – there are violations
of a fairly strong typological tendency. For example, languages avoid
marking identically the instrumental and benefactive relations, because in the
causal chain of an event an instrument relation is antecedent to the event
denoted by the verb of an utterance, whereas the benefactive relation is
subsequent to the event. Croft accounts for this with the Causal Order
Hypothesis (COH). We find no violations of the COH in the African creoles
42
examined but various Asian creoles exhibit distinct violations of the COH.
I show that these can be traced back to the violations in the substrate
languages of the creoles.
3.2 External ecology of fifteenth- to sixteenth-century Portugal
and Portuguese L2 varieties
Ramos Tinhorão (1997:45, 437 n. 90) notes that throughout medieval times
slavery was known and used by the Portuguese not only in war, but also in
commerce. He reports that from the middle of the fourteenth century there
were slave-selling establishments in the Rua Nova of Lisbon where captured
Moors and other Africans (some of whom were even brought from Seville,
the entrepôt for Castile) were bought and sold.1
The first four slaves known to have been taken from sub-Saharan Africa
were brought to Portugal in 1444 by Dinis Dias from his voyage to the
Senegalese coast and the Cape Verde Islands. Such slaves became invaluable
to Henry the Navigator, who used them as interpreters on voyages to Africa as
well as to gather reconnaissance on places in Africa (Ramos Tinhorão
1997:47). From around the middle of the fifteenth century until 1505, as many
as 150,000 sub-Saharan Africans were enslaved and taken to Portugal. The
details regarding these slaves are shown in Table 3.1. Some of these slaves
were taught Portuguese, educated, and instructed in Catholicism for use in the
king’s court. And through the ties cultivated in these positions some of the
slaves were able to procure royal protection by the end of the fifteenth century
(ibid.:93). However, the vast majority of African slaves were set to work in
agriculture in the rural areas or in menial jobs in urban Portugal.
The reason for such an influx of African slaves in rural Portugal was
twofold. First, the Portuguese population had not yet recovered from the
bubonic plague (1348–1350) and various other epidemics that followed in the
second half of the fourteenth and first half of the fifteenth centuries. This
series of diseases decimated the population and weakened the resistance to
disease of various generations. From north to south, there were during this
time innumerable reports of a lack of able-bodied people (de Oliveira
Marques 1998:100–101). The social ramifications of this crisis were deep,
with the urban areas being affected most. In Lisbon itself, this was evident in
the social upheavals that took place in 1371, in the revolution of 1383–1385,
and in the rebellions of 1438–1441 and 1449. This social unease was partly
due to the migration of many rural people, who thought to better their lot in
1
He also mentions the record of a nun from the Chelas convent who bought a female Moor as a
slave in 1368. Thus, the church also participated in the slave trade from early on.
3.2 External ecology of Portugal and Portuguese 43
Table 3.1. Number of slaves brought to Portugal from sub-Saharan Africa
(1441–1505)
Interval Description Number
1441 to 1448 From the predatory period in the region of Cabo
Branco up until the establishment of Arguim
1,000 to 2,000
1448 to 1450 From the beginning of the use of slaves to buy back
prisoners, in Arguim, to the issuing of licences to
particular individuals for buying prisoners
1,500 to 2,000
1450 to 1505 From the period of issuing licences for buying
prisoners, in Arguim, to the establishment of the
monopoly of slave trade, extending the traffic of
slaves to the interior territories (approximately
700 to 800 individuals annually)
38,500 to 44,000
1450 to 1460 Initial period of trade in the Senegal region, with an
average of 400 to 500 individuals annually
4,000 to 5,000
1460 to 1470 Period of full operation of ransoming slaves for
prisoners in the south of Senegal, with twice the
volume annually, that is, 800 to 1,000 individuals
per year
8,000 to 10,000
1470 to 1475 Period of Fernão Gomes’ contract, with an average
increase up to 1,000 to 1,200 individuals per year
10,000 to 12,000
1475 to 1495 Period of the heaviest slave trafficking along the whole
coast, calculated by Duarte Pacheco to be 3,500
individuals per year (excluding the exportation of
slaves by Arguim, which is calculated separately)
54,000 to 56,000
1495 to 1505 Period of the decline of slave trafficking after the death
of Don João II (the yearly average was estimated at
2,500 individuals, excluding the exportation of slaves
by Arguim, which is calculated separately)
19,000 to 20,000
Total 136,000 to 151,000
Note: Three of the calculations in Ramos Tinhorão’s table are not clear. During the six-year
period from 1470 to 1475, approximately 1,000 to 1,200 individuals per year were taken to
Portugal, but the totals are not 6,000 to 7,200, but significantly higher, at 10,000 to 12,000.
During the 21-year period of 1475 to 1495, 3,500 slaves per year were calculated, which would
yield 73,500, but the actual range given is much lower, at 54,000–56,000. Similarly, during the
eleven-year period of 1495–1505, a total of 19,000–20,000 individuals were calculated to have
been taken to Portugal, based on the assumption of approximately 2,500 individuals yearly.
However, such an annual amount would give a total of 27,500 individuals over this period of
time. If the adjustment is made according to these corrections, the maximum number of Africans
taken to Portugal between 1441 and 1505 is 165,200 instead of 151,000.
Source: Ramos Tinhorão 1997:86.
44 Portuguese- and Spanish-lexified creole languages
life by moving to the cities in search of jobs. The result of this migration was,
of course, that rural areas were left without sufficient labour.
Second, the Portuguese maritime expansion, from 1417 onwards, became a
new and highly attractive source of labour for the people migrating to the
cities. Recently arrived migrants to Lisbon took advantage of the increasing
demand for sailors and word spread to rural Portugal, from where the exploits
of the crown prompted more rural inhabitants to migrate to the urban areas in
search of new opportunities. This only exacerbated an already precarious
situation in the rural areas and resulted in the partial abandonment of agri-
cultural work (de Oliveira Marques 1998:102).
The lack of a rural and urban work force and the general decline in the
population in Portugal due to the bubonic plague took its toll on society in
several ways. The abandonment of lands led to low cereal production. The
subsequent fear of many land-owners for their lives because of the plague led
them to donate their property to the church in the hope of salvation, and, as
mentioned, the migrations to the cities from the countryside led to social
upheavals.
Over time, the abandonment of the rural areas and the flood of people
flocking to urban areas led to the introduction of African slaves into rural, as
well as urban, Portugal in order to meet the demand for labour. Indeed,
Portugal was the first kingdom to incorporate slaves into its own domestic
economy. In order to control the African slave trade during this time, King
Alphonse V made it obligatory that the slaves be brought to Portugal before
being sold on, in many cases, to the Americas or Asia. Thus, Lisbon became
an entrepôt for African slaves, who were bought to be used in urban as well as
in rural areas. Between 1450 and 1505, as many as 150,000þ African slaves
were introduced into the work force. By the first part of the sixteenth century,
black Africans came to make up more than 10 per cent of the rural population
in Portugal south of the Douro (Ramos Tinhorão 1997:101). Moreover, by
around 1533–1538, Lisbon had a population of around 100,000 inhabitants,
Africans making up around 15 per cent (15,350) of that total (ibid.:113).
With the influx of so many African slaves into the domestic Portuguese
work force, one wonders what the structure of the Portuguese spoken by the
Africans looked like. I assume that the vast majority of these slaves learned
Portuguese naturalistically. Thus, the speech of the first generation of Afri-
cans would be the fifteenth- to sixteenth-century equivalent of immigrant
varieties of Spanish or Portuguese spoken today in Spanish- and Portuguese-
speaking countries (see chapter 6). In the plays of the fifteenth (e.g., Enrique
da Mota) and sixteenth centuries (e.g., Gil Vicente), we find approximations
of African speech in the mouths of some of the characters of their plays.
It is not unreasonable to assume that these approximations, variously called
guinéu ‘Guineanese’, lingua de guiné ‘language of Guinea’, and lingua de
3.2 External ecology of Portugal and Portuguese 45
negro/preto ‘negro/black language’, would reflect typically occurring traits in
the speech of the Africans during that period. Examples (3.1)–(3.9) represent
what could reasonably be considered portrayals of African speech that reflect
naturalistically acquired L2 Portuguese. That is, given the demographic
make-up of Lisbon and southern Portugal in the late fifteenth and early six-
teenth centuries, it is very likely that these portrayals of fala de guiné reflect
L2 varieties of Africans of the period and form part of the basis for a
Portuguese-based pidgin developed by the Portuguese with indigenous people
during their colonization of Africa and Asia. The text in (3.1)–(3.3) is taken
from A lamentação do clérigo ‘the lamentation of the priest’, a poetic farce
written in the last quarter of the fifteenth century by Enrique da Mota, in
which a priest laments a cask of wine that had fallen on the ground and spilt.
In the poem, the voice of a slave woman speaks the lines below (taken from
Tarracha Ferreira 1994:282–283).
(3.1) a mym nunca sar ruim.
to me never be bad
‘I’m not [or never] bad.’
(3.2) Vós logo todos chamar.
you right.away all call
‘You call everyone right away.’
(3.3a) Aqui estar juiz no fora.
here be judge in-the outside
‘The judge is outside here.’
(3.3b) a mim logo vai ‘té lá.
to me right.away goes until there
‘I’m going to go there.’
(3.3c) Mim também falar mourinho.
me also speak moorish
‘I also speak Moorish.’
(3.3d) mim não medo no toucinho.
me no fear in lard
‘I have no fear of lard.’
Naro (1978) compiled numerous examples from plays which were
spoken by black slaves. I cite six of his examples (ibid.:329–332), given in
(3.4)–(3.9).
(3.4) logo a mi bae trazee.
right.away to me go-3sg bring
‘I’ll go bring it right away.’
(3.5) Quando já paga a rinheiro, deytá a mi fero na pé.
when already pay the money put to me iron on foot
‘When he paid the money, he put irons on my feet.’
46 Portuguese- and Spanish-lexified creole languages
(3.6) bosso barba já cajaro.
your beard already white
‘Your beard {has turned/is already} white.’
(3.7) Ya mim disee isso ja.
already me say this already
‘I already said that.’
(3.8) Porque tu nam burguntando?
why you neg asking
‘Why aren’t you asking?’
(3.9) . . . e levare elle na bico.
and carry he prep beak
‘. . . and carry it off on the sly.’
It is revealing that the fala de guiné portrayed in these examples shares
several key traits with bozal Spanish, discussed in chapter 4, Chinese Coolie
Spanish, in chapter 5, and Chinese Immigrant Spanish, in chapter 6. To
illustrate certain similarities, the main tense–aspect-related traits common to
both Chinese Immigrant Spanish and fala de guiné are:
 the use of adverbials such as logo ‘right away’ and já ‘already’ ((3.2),
(3.3b), (3.4), (3.5), (3.6)) for tense/time markers with no corresponding
verbal inflection;
 use of the gerund form, such as burguntando (< Ptg. perguntando) in (3.8),
for dynamic, [þdurative] predicates (in this case an accomplishment);
 use of 3sg-pres or infinitive forms as default forms (vai or bae (< Ptg. vai
‘s/he goes’) for vou ‘I go’, sar (< Ptg. ser ‘be’) for sou ‘I am’, chamar
‘call’ for chamades ‘you.pl call’, estar ‘be (located)’ for está ‘s/he is
(located)’, paga ‘pays’ for pagou ‘s/he paid’, deytá ‘put-inf’ for deytou
‘s/he put’, disee (< Ptg. dizer ‘say-inf’) for disse ‘s/he said’.
More general traits shared by such varieties are lack of copula (3.8) and the
use of an all-purpose preposition. Based on findings by Klein and Perdue
(1992) regarding what they call the ‘basic variety’ of immigrant speech,
I suggest that the similarities between the traits of Portuguese attributed to the
Africans in Portugal in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries and the afore-
mentioned varieties of immigrant Spanish are not coincidental. Rather, in
large part they are the consequence of naturalistic L2 acquisition. Such
varieties of Portuguese also emerged in interactions between the Portuguese
sailors and African natives along the African coast, and these varieties would
have similar features as well.
It is also quite probable that the Portuguese sailors, in their interactions
with Africans in Portugal and Africa, developed restructured varieties of
Portuguese which they used on their voyages. That is, drawing on the lin-
guistic feature pool in these contact situations, the Portuguese sailors and
3.2 External ecology of Portugal and Portuguese 47
Africans constructed a system of communication based primarily on the
Portuguese lexicon. The most commonly used lexical and structural features
in the feature pool found their way into the emerging linguistic systems in
each contact situation. It is out of these contact situations that I assume pidgin
Portuguese likely developed, which was one of the sources (along with L2
varieties of Portuguese and substrate languages) for the Portuguese-based
creoles, especially those creoles that formed after pidgin Portuguese was
developed. If this is true, then the Portuguese creoles should display features
found both in Immigrant Spanish and L2 African Portuguese. For example,
we would expect to find stative verbs to be based on the most commonly used
verb forms for stative predicates (see Tables 1.4 and 1.5). Revealingly, stative
verbs in the Portuguese- and Spanish-based creoles are based on the 3sg
present-tense form. More generally, Bybee and Pardo (1981) in a study on
Spanish verbal forms show that the 3sg present verb form is one of the most
frequently used forms not only for stative, but also for some non-stative
verbs. It is not surprising, then, that the 3sg present forms of stative verbs are
found in the creole languages just mentioned (see also Holm 1989:268).
Let us now turn to examine two phenomena of Portuguese- and Spanish-
based creoles: affixal tense–aspect markers and grammatical/oblique
semantic relation markers. While the first reveals that L2 varieties played a
crucial role in the formation of creoles, an examination of the grammatical/
semantic relation markers suggests that during and subsequent to the for-
mation of the creoles it was also shaped by substrate structures and patterns.
3.3 Affixal tense–aspect markers in Portuguese- and
Spanish-based creoles
Holm (1989:268) notes that all Portuguese-based creoles have reflexes of
Portuguese vai ‘goes’. Moreover, all share the all-purpose preposition na,
attested in the examples (3.5) and (3.9) above. Given that the presence of
these two features in all the varieties in question could not be entirely due
only to Portuguese Foreigner Talk or to L2 African Portuguese, it constitutes
an argument for the prior existence of a pidgin Portuguese variety, spoken
from the west coast of Africa to as far east as Macau and Hong Kong. I argue
that the reflexes of vai and na came about due to a number of factors. First,
the default motion verb vai ‘go’ and location preposition na were frequently
used. That is, in terms of frequency, they were well represented in feature
pools of contact situations involving Portuguese and varieties of African or
Asian languages. Second, they were easy to perceive and produce because
of their CV(G) structure. Third, although African naturalistic learners of
Portuguese may have acquired these items to denote, respectively, ‘go’ and
48 Portuguese- and Spanish-lexified creole languages
various semantic roles (location, direction, etc.), the Portuguese interlocutors
must have reinforced this by accommodating the speech of the Africans.
I suggest that it is through this ‘negotiation’, as well as the other, afore-
mentioned factors that these two forms became part of pidgin Portuguese
(unstable as well as stable varieties) and subsequently part of all the creole
languages derived from it (see Thomason and Kaufman 1988:172–181 and
Thomason 2001:142–146).
With specific regard to Asian–Portuguese creoles, they had at one point or
still have reflexes of the Portuguese logo ‘right away’ and já ‘already’ as
tense–aspect markers.2
Again, the presence of these items in the Asian creoles
follows from the process of negotiation. That is, not only would the Portu-
guese (and other Portuguese speakers in the colonization process) have
isolated these markers in their pidgin as those for temporal reference, but the
Asian naturalistic learners acquiring some form of Portuguese would also
have targeted these frequently used temporal reference markers as a way of
marking tense on the verb.3
I now turn to the discussion of affixal tense–aspect markers in the creoles in
question. These elements are of particular interest because creole languages
are known to reduce morphological material in the processes of pidginization
and creolization. The linguistic factors involved in the retention or loss of
morphology in these processes are whether or not there was a typological
similarity in the content and structural features of the languages involved in
the contact situations, and to what extent the competing features in the feature
pool were marked relative to one another. As used here, the term markedness
refers to the degree of representation (in terms of frequency of occurrence) a
given lexical (including function words) or structural feature has within the
feature pool of a given contact situation. In general, CV structure is con-
sidered to be highly unmarked and inflectional infixation highly marked.
However, the selection of (i.e. preference for) the (more common) infix over
prefix/suffix could happen if two languages in contact shared the feature of
inflectional infixation for a particular function. In this case, inflectional
infixation would be considered unmarked, and it would not be surprising for a
contact language emerging from such a situation to display this feature.
The key non-linguistic factors affecting pidginization and creolization in
the contact situations in question are: the number of languages in a contact
2
The exception is Daman Creole Portuguese, which marks the future with the particle ad (< Ptg.
ha de ‘ought’, ‘must’) and does not use ja as a marker of the past. I consider this to be due to
the constant influence of Portuguese in Daman, which still has a presence there in the church
and in Portuguese cultural groups. Many Damanenses maintain their contact with Portugal;
some have family members living there.
3
The Spanish analogues luego and ya appear often in Immigrant Spanish. See chapter 6 for
discussion of this.
3.3 Affixal tense–aspect markers 49
situation and the number of speakers of each language (heterogeneity), the
dominance relations among the speakers of different language groups, and
finally the extent of access to the target-language features by the target-
language learners.
In the Portuguese- and Spanish-based creoles under consideration, we find
that the presence of affixal features in their respective tense–aspect systems
depends on the linguistic and extra-linguistic factors just mentioned. Spe-
cifically, the more typologically similar the languages were in the contact
situations involving Portuguese in Africa and Asia, the more likely it was for
typologically similar features to become part of the subsequent creole lan-
guage. As for markedness of features, the more marked a given feature was,
the less likely it was for it to become part of the respective creoles unless the
feature was shared by the languages in contact. By contrast, the more
unmarked the features were in these contact situations, the more likely they
were to become part of the respective creoles, especially if they were shared
by the languages in contact (see Thomason and Kaufman 1988:72–74 and
Thomason 2001:63–66). As for the extra-linguistic features, the more het-
erogeneous the contact situation was, the lower the likelihood was of having
shared features among languages and the greater was the likelihood for
unmarked features to become part of the respective creoles. For my purposes
here I define heterogeneity in terms of the number of languages in the contact
situation. That is, the more languages involved in a given contact situation,
the more heterogeneous the situation is. Thus, a contact situation with two
languages is relatively less heterogeneous (or more homogeneous) than one
with four contact languages (see Clements 1992a).
In each individual contact situation, the nature of the dominance relation
dictated the likelihood of there being a target language or not. In all the cases
in question here, we can safely say that at least the Portuguese lexicon was a
target of those communicating with the Portuguese in Africa and Asia. That
is, in all these creoles, we have a high percentage of Portuguese lexicon, with
the exception of Philippine Creole Spanish, in which the Portuguese was
subsequently re-lexified by Spanish (Whinnom 1956). Lastly, assuming a
target language, the factor of accessibility is important. That is, it is important
to know whether those who targeted the language had greater or lesser access
to it. Here I have quantified this in terms of the length of the Portuguese
presence in each of the contact situations. For example, Cape Verdean, which
has been in contact with Portuguese from its inception up to the present,
has had greater access to Portuguese than Angolar, whose contact with
Portuguese ended around 1520.
Taking these factors into consideration, I list in Table 3.2 the affixes
present in the different creoles and their respective uses, and in Table 3.3 the
approximations of the relative heterogeneity (left-hand column) and presence
50 Portuguese- and Spanish-lexified creole languages
Table
3.2.
Suffixes
in
the
Portuguese-based
creoles
Deverbal
-du/
-ru
Pluperf/Past
(stative
verbs)
-ba
Passive
-du/-ru
Anterior
Passive
-da
(<
-duba)
Perfect
-du/-ru
Simple
Past
-o
Gerund
–n(do)
Plural
-s
KV
þ
þ
þ
þ




KR
þ
þ
þ





PR
þ

þ

þ
(Aux
þ
V-du)



AN
þ







ST
þ







FA
þ







KO
þ

þ

þ
þ
þ

DN
þ

þ

þ
þ
þ

BP
þ



(þ)


þ
PK
þ






þ
PS
þ






(þ)
PP






þ
(recent)

PL

þ




þ

Sources
and
notes:
KV=Kabuverdianu
(Quint
2000),
KR=Kriyol
(Kihm
1994),
PR=Principense
(Günther
1973),
AN=Angolar
(Maurer
1995
and
Lorenzino
1998),
ST=Sãotomense
(Ferraz
1979),
FA=Fa
d’Ambu
(Post
1995),
KO
¼
Korlai
(Clements
1996),
DN
¼
Daman
(Clements
and
Koontz-Garboden
2002),
BP=Batticaloa
(Smith
1977),
PK
¼
Papia
Kristang
(Baxter
1988),
PS
¼
Philippine
Creole
Spanish
(Forman
1972),
PP=Papiamentu
(Maurer
1998),
PL
¼
Palenquero
(Schwegler
1998).
of Portuguese (centre column) for the different creole languages. I suggest
that there is a correlation between the degree of heterogeneity and the pres-
ence of Portuguese within a contact situation and the number of affixes
retained in the corresponding creole. That is, the more homogeneous and the
more constant the Portuguese presence (in relative terms) was in a given
contact situation, the greater the number of affixes and affix functions found
in the respective creoles. The two-language contact situations in Korlai and
Daman (where a strong Portuguese presence was constant at least up to 1740
and 1961 respectively) have the highest rate of morphology retention.
Those situations with less than constant Portuguese presence and/or a
greater heterogeneity have retained fewer affixes and/or fewer functions per
affix. The main contact languages of the upper Guinea creoles (Kabuverdianu
and Kriyol) were Mandinka and Wolof. However, I assume that there were
several languages involved in their respective contact situations because of
the many spoken in the area. The prediction here is that Kabuverdianu would
possess more affixes than Kriyol, and this turns out to be the case, which I
attribute to the greater presence of Portuguese in the case of Kabuverdianu
(see Table 3.3). For their part, the Gulf of Guinea creoles (Principense,
Sãotomense, Fa d’Ambu, and Angolar) had substantially less constant contact
with Portuguese and they also involved contact situations with several lan-
guages, though the main ones were Kikongo and Kimbundu. With the
exception of Principense which retains the suffix -du with three functions, all
Gulf of Guinea creoles in question have only one suffix (also -du) with one
function.
Papia Kristang emerged in a largely three-language contact situation,
namely Hokkien Chinese, Malay (including Malay, Bazaar Malay, and Baba
Malay), and Portuguese. It is important to note that Bazaar Malay, a
restructured form of Malay, was the lingua franca used between the Hokkien
and Malay speakers and that in the 1500s it became nativized, receiving the
name Baba Malay. Bazaar Malay and Baba Malay are different from
Vehicular Malay, known more recently, which is a restructured variety of
Malay that has been used for centuries in Indonesia (personal communication,
Scott Paauw, 15 January 2004). Comparing it to the other Asian creoles such
as Korlai and Daman, it should possess fewer affixes due to the greater
heterogeneity of the contact situation, and this is in fact true.
Philippine Creole Spanish, originally a Portuguese-based creole formed
and spoken in Ternate, Indonesia, as early as the mid-1500s (Whinnom 1956),
had as its original contact languages Vehicular Malay/Malay and Portuguese.
Around 1665, a community of Portuguese creole speakers from Ternate
was relocated by the Spanish to the Philippines, where the creole was re-
lexified through intermarriage (Holm 1989:318). This situation is relatively
52 Portuguese- and Spanish-lexified creole languages
Table 3.3. Number of suffixes relative to the homogeneity of the contact
situation and the strength and duration of Portuguese presence
Contact situation
Presence of Portuguese
(Spanish)
Number of suffixes
(with number of functions
in square brackets)
DN 2 langs. Relatively constant up to
1961; presence has
remained until today
3 (-du [3], -o, -n(do))
KO 2 langs. Relatively constant up to
1740; strongly diminished
presence (parish priest)
up to 1960s
3 (-du [3], -o, -n(do))
BP 2 langs. Relatively constant up to
1658
2 (-du [2], -s)
PS 2¼> 3 langs. Constant up to around 1580,
relatively constant Spanish
presence, starting in 1665
2 (-du [1], -s)
PK 3 langs. Relatively constant up to
1640
2 (-du [1], -s)
KV 5þ langs. (Mandinka
and Fula the most
widely spoken)
Relatively constant up
to the present
2 (-du [3], -ba [2])
KR 5þ langs. (Mandinka
and Fula the most
widely spoken)
Relatively constant but
weaker than in KV
2 (-du [2], -ba [1])
ST 5þ langs. (Kikongo and
Kimbundu the most
predominant)
Relatively less constant 1 (-du [1])
PR 5þ langs. Relatively less constant 1 (-du [3])
FA 5þ langs. Relatively less constant,
with influence from
Spanish from 1885
1 (-du [1])
PP 5þ langs. Relatively less constant,
heterogeneous Portuguese
and Spanish influence
1 (-ndo [1]) (recent
development, due to
Spanish influence)
PL 5þ langs. Relatively less constant 2 (-ba [1], -ndo [1])
AN 5þ langs. (Kikongo and
Kimbundu the most
predominant)
Least constant, ended in
1520
1 suffix (-ru (< -du) [1])
Note: See Table 3.2 for abbreviations.
Source: See Clements and Mahboob 2000, and the references therein.
3.3 Affixal tense–aspect markers 53
comparable to that of Papia Kristang. Revealingly, Philippine Creole Spanish
has the same number of affixes as Papia Kristang, with the same number of
functions.
The history of Papiamentu and Palenquero is more complex, as these cre-
oles are thought to be largely exogenous; that is, they formed in an area in
which the Africans who initially created them had been uprooted from their
respective homelands and transported to the New World. The formative period
of Papiamentu, now a largely Spanish-based creole spoken on the islands of
Curaçao, Bonaire, and Aruba off the northern coast of Venezuela, was
between 1650 and 1700, according to Bartens (1995:247). The first slaves
arrived in Curaçao around 1650 from Africa. About ten years later, there was
an influx of African slaves arriving from the north of Brazil, brought there
by Sephardic plantation-owners, who themselves were speakers of Judeo-
Portuguese and/or Judeo-Spanish, as well as pidgin Portuguese. From 1634,
there was also a substantial Dutch presence, the bona fide colonial language of
Curaçao still today, although only 9 per cent of the population speak Dutch,
while 80 per cent speak Papiamentu. The Africans were arguably from many
linguistic backgrounds, and belonging to at least two waves initially: those
brought from Brazil and those transported to Curaçao directly from Africa.
Thus, the European side, then – Portuguese, Judeo-Portuguese/Spanish,
Dutch, and later Spanish – played a role, while from the African side we can
only assume that numerous languages were represented. Given the complex
history of Papiamentu, we would expect it to possess no affixes. Indeed, the
one affix it does have is, according to Philippe Maurer (personal communi-
cation, 26 June 2003), a recent development.
Similarly, Palenquero, another Portuguese-based creole, formed in the
early 1600s when around thirty African slaves escaped from Cartagena,
Colombia, fled into the interior of the country, and there built El Palenque, a
fortified village, which then became a refuge for fugitive slaves and a base
from which to launch raids on Europeans (Holm 1989:310). The documentary
evidence (e.g., certain magic rituals) suggests that the slaves who founded
what is now the village of El Palenque de San Basilio were from Kikongo-
and Kimbundu-speaking areas, which has led some researchers to posit a
connection between Palenquero on the one hand and Sãotomense and Fa
d’Ambu on the other (see Bartens 1995:268–269). Given that slaves arrived
there from various language groups, I assume that on the African side there
were numerous languages in the contact situation. On the European side, the
initial influence seems to have been pidgin Portuguese and thereafter Spanish.
Although the villagers isolated themselves strongly from the outside world
for purposes of their own survival, if it had connections to Sãotomense or Fa
d’Ambu, we would expect it to rank low on affix retention. However, it has
two affixes, each with one function. Thus, the prediction based on length of
54 Portuguese- and Spanish-lexified creole languages
contact with the lexifier language and heterogeneity of the contact situation
does not hold with regard to Palenquero. Given that Armin Schwegler
(personal communication, 16 April 2005) reports that -ndo is an integral part
of the grammar of Palenquero and used by its oldest speakers, its presence
cannot be attributed to the increased influence of Spanish in the twentieth
century. Note that Palenquero (with -du) shares no suffixes with Sãotomense
and Fa d’Ambu (with -ba and -ndo), but it does share -ba with Kabuverdianu
and Kriyol. Thus, it could be that Palenquero is more closely related to the
upper Guinea creoles and that -ndo became part of Palenquero after El
Palenque had existed for a while. Be that as it may, the contact situation of
Palenquero is complex and due to this cannot be easily accommodated into
the analysis being presented here.
Thus, with the exception of Palenquero, the general prediction based on
length of contact with the lexifier language and heterogeneity of the contact
situation seems to hold: the longer the contact with the lexifier language and
the more homogeneous the contact situation (i.e., the fewer languages
involved in it), the greater the likelihood of affixes being incorporated into the
creole languages. But why were the affixes maintained at all in these creoles?
The answer seems to be that – given that all the major languages in the
contact situations just alluded to have suffixes – the more homogeneous
the contact situation and the stronger the presence of the target language, the
more likely it is for suffixal morphology to become part of the grammar of an
emerging creole language.
3.4 Case marking
In this section, I limit my discussion to oblique case marking,4
with com-
mentary on direct and indirect object case marking when relevant. Croft’s
(1991) research into how oblique relations are coded across languages led
him to formulate the Causal Order Hypothesis. At the core of the COH is the
distinction between antecedent and subsequent semantic roles (ibid.:185). As
an illustration, Croft gives the two examples shown in (3.10).
(3.10a) Sam baked a cake for Jan.
Sam cake Jan
 !  ! 
subj obj obl
### bake ###
4
The analysis in this section is based largely on Koontz-Garboden and Clements 2002a and
2002b.
3.4 Case marking 55
(3.10b) Sam whipped the egg with a fork.
Sam fork egg
 !  ! 
subj obl obj
### whip ###
In (3.10a), the baking event involves the cake. The benefactive for Jan is,
however, subsequent to the baking of the cake. By contrast, the whipping
event in (3.10b) logically entails the use of the instrument, the fork, in order
that the event can be carried out. Whereas in (3.10a) the benefactive can be
said to follow the baking event, the picking up of the fork to use it in the
whipping event in (3.10b) precedes the whipping event itself. Thus, a bene-
factive is subsequent to the event, whereas an instrumental is antecedent to
the event. In Figure 3.1, I reproduce Croft’s view of the distribution of
thematic roles in the causal chain.
A prediction emerges from the distinction of oblique relations into ante-
cedent and subsequent roles: in the coding of oblique relations, if there are
syncretisms in the coding of these roles, they will be found within the group
of antecedent roles or within the group of subsequent roles, but not across the
groups. That is, one would not expect to find in the world’s languages the
same word, clitic, or affix coding an instrumental (antecedent role) and a
benefactive (subsequent role). However, it would be predicted that there
would be syncretisms within each of the two groups. Thus, one would expect
to find examples of the same word, clitic, or affix coding instrumental and
comitative relations, or result and benefactive relations.
In a survey of forty languages, Croft found only two syncretisms across
antecedent and subsequent roles. By contrast, he found thirty-nine syncret-
isms within the antecedent role group, thirty within the subsequent role group,
and five that showed no directionality because the languages in question only
have one adposition (Croft 1991:188). In the Portuguese- and Spanish-based
Antecedent || Subsequent
||
cause ||
• SUBJECT • means OBJECT •
• → • → • manner
instrument
→ • → •
passive
agent
•
•
||
||
||
### VERB SEGMENT ###
result
benefactive/
malefactive
(recipient)
comitative
Figure 3.1. Distribution of thematic roles in the causal chain (from Croft 1991:185).
56 Portuguese- and Spanish-lexified creole languages
creoles, then, we expect the antecedent–subsequent distinction to be respected
with regard to oblique case marking, especially since the creoles tend to
contain many unmarked features. In this chapter, I examine the antecedent
roles cause, instrumental, and comitative, and the subsequent roles bene-
factive and dative/recipient.
A summary of the data is given in Table 3.4. There are several points that
merit comment. First, there is a small set of lexical items used to encode
many different roles in most of the creoles, in particular items like de (< Ptg.
de ‘of, from’), ku (< Ptg. com ‘with’), pa (< Ptg. para ‘for’), and na (< Ptg.
na ‘in-the.fem’). Second, the lexical item ku/kon is broadly used in many of
the Asian creoles, but less so in the African creoles. In almost all of the
creoles, ku/kon marks the antecedent roles instrumental and comitative. In
some of the Asian creoles, however, it also marks the subsequent roles dative/
recipient and benefactive, in violation of Croft’s COH. In order to appreciate
more clearly the distribution of the markers, I divide the data in Table 3.4 into
African–Portuguese creole markers (Table 3.5) and Asian–Portuguese creole
markers (Table 3.6).
While all syncretisms in the African creoles are found within the group of
antecedent relation markers (i.e., ku, marked in grey), several of the Asian
creoles (i.e., Korlai, Papia Kristang, and Philippine Creole Spanish) display
syncretisms across the antecedent–subsequent divide, marking the antecedent
roles instrumental/comitative as well as the subsequent roles dative/recipient,
a clear violation of the COH. The question is: why do only the Asian creoles
violate the COH, especially given that the COH appears likely to be a uni-
versal tendency? As Koontz-Garboden and Clements (2002a) note, the vio-
lation cannot be traced back to European Portuguese or to the substrate
languages of some of the creoles (e.g., Korlai and Daman). It seems, however,
that these syncretisms are found in various Asian languages in areas where
the Asian creoles formed. I will discuss the relevant case marking features in
Malayalam, Vehicular Malay, and the Philippine languages, the key lan-
guages in the formation of Indo-Portuguese, Malay Creole Portuguese, and
Philippine Creole Spanish, respectively.
In the final stage of Portugal’s exploration and settlement of the West
African coast (see Chaunu 1979:111–112), Vasco da Gama rounded the Cape
of Good Hope and found his way up the eastern coast of Africa to Mombasa
(now in Kenya). With the help of Ahmed-ben-Madjid, an Arab purported to
be the best navigator of India in the fifteenth century, Vasco da Gama trav-
elled across the Arabian Sea to the tip of the Indian subcontinent, landing in
Cochin in 1498 (Serrão 1978:100; de Oliveira Marques 1998:207).
Initially, the Portuguese had no desire to build settlements in India, but
rather intended to establish a trade in spices. As things developed, they
realized that an ancient trade network flourished in the area and that in order
3.4 Case marking 57
Table
3.4.
Oblique
case
markers
in
Portuguese-
and
Spanish-based
creoles
Acc
Dat
Ben
Gen
Loc
Goal
Source
Cause
Instr
Comit
KV
Ø
Ø
pa
di,
-l,
jux*
na
Ø,
pa
di
pur
kauza
de
(acrol.)
ku
ku
KR
Ø
Ø
pa
di
Ø,
na
Ø
(?),
pa,
na
di,
dedi
–
ku
ku
ST
Ø
Ø
da
di
ni
pe
–
punda,
nda,
da
ku
(?)
ku
AN
Ø
Ø
ra
jux,
ri
ni,
pe
pe
fo
punda,
nda,
da
ku
~
ki
ku
~
ki
PR
Ø
Ø
da
jux,
de
na
Ø,
na
di
poké
(þ
sentence)
ki
(ko)
ki,
(ko)
DN
p
e
p
e
p
e
d
e
n
e
Ø,
n
e
,
p
e
d
e
d
e
,
pur
kawz
d
e
(acrol.?)
ko
junt
KO
ku,
pV
ku,
pV
ku,
pV
-su
Ø,
n
e
,
d
e
,
ku
Ø,
n
e
,
d
e
,
be,
ku
-su,
pasun
rh
e
p
e
d,
-su
ku,
-su,
Ø
kosid
BP
-p
e
-p
e
,
-ntu
-p
e
-su
-ntu
-juntu
Ø,
per,
-ntu
–
-wi:d
e
-w
c
:nd
e
-ju:ntu
PK
ku
ku
padi,
pa,
pe
di,
sa
na
ku,
na
di
káuzu
di
ku
ku
PS
kon
kon
kon,
para
de
na
na,
para
na,
para
na,
kon,
de
na,
porkawsa
de(l)
kon
kon
Note:
See
Table
3.2
for
abbreviations.
to control it they would have to follow a policy of aggressive strategy bent on
destruction and ultimately the conquest of the ‘enemy’ (de Oliveira Marques
1998:213). By 1505, the Portuguese had built trading posts in Cochin and
other port towns on the south-western coast. They quickly built settlements
further north along the coast, completing one in Chaul in 1523 and in Diu
around 1535. The town of Daman offered much more resistance, but sur-
rendered in 1559 after years of the Portuguese destroying and ransacking the
area (see Clements and Koontz-Garboden 2002). The Portuguese also trav-
elled further east, establishing settlements in what today are Sri Lanka,
Malaysia, Indonesia, and Macau.
For the Indo-Portuguese creoles, the situation in Cochin is relevant.
Although today Cochin Creole Portuguese is nearly extinct, the town was the
first place to be settled by the Portuguese and very probably the first place in
Table 3.6. Subsequent and antecedent roles in Asian Portuguese creoles
Subsequent Antecedent
Dat/Rec Ben Cause Instr Comit
DN pe pe de, pur kawz de (acrol.) ko junt
KO ku, pV ku, pV rhe
p
e
d, -su ku, -su, Ø kosid
BP pe, -ntu -pe -wi:de -wc:nde ju:ntua
PK ku padi, pa, pe káuzu di ku ku
PS kon kon, para na, porkawsa de(l) kon kon
Note: See Table 3.2 for abbreviations. The grey shading indicates syncretisms.
a
Although this is not a syncretism from a synchronic standpoint Battiacaloa Creole Portuguese
exhibited a syncretism involving the comitative antecedent role ju:ntu and the dative/goal sub-
sequent role -ntu (<juntu). This may be due to Sri Lankan Tamil, but it needs to be studied
further.
Table 3.5. Subsequent and antecedent roles in African Portuguese creoles
Subsequent Antecedent
Dat/Rec Ben Cause Instr Comit
KV Ø pa pur kauza de (acrol.) ku ku
KR Ø pa – ku ku
ST Ø da punda, nda, da ku (?) ku
AN Ø ra punda, nda, da ku ~ ki ku ~ ki
PR Ø da poké (þ sent.) ki (ko) ki, (ko)
Note: See Table 3.2 for abbreviations. The grey shading indicates syncretisms.
3.4 Case marking 59
which a Portuguese-based creole language formed in Asia.5
Following offi-
cial policy, the Portuguese soldiers were to attempt to marry local women, but
as Boxer (1975:68) notes, many men, especially the younger ones, preferred
to live with a harem of slave girls rather than marry. Of course, this misce-
genation led to mixed offspring, which in turn led to the creation of a creole
language. Here I assume that by that time Portuguese soldiers spoke to
indigenous people, almost a century after Portugal had begun its colonial
expansion, in pidginized Portuguese, Foreign Talk Portuguese, and whatever
else worked (Clements 1992a, 1993b). It is well known that pidgin Portu-
guese was used not only by the Portuguese, but also by the Dutch and the
English as well in their colonial expansion (Holm 1989:270–271; Clements
1996:ch. 1). With specific regard to the formation of a creole in Cochin, it
would have been substantially influenced by the local language, Malayalam.
This language, arguably, would have been instrumental in contributing to
some of the lexical and structural features of Cochin Creole Portuguese,
which then would conceivably find their way into other Indo-Portuguese
creoles. Indeed, we find in all extant Indo-Portuguese creoles today lexical
items that are from southern India. One such word is Cochin Creole Portu-
guese apa [ape
] ‘handbread made of rice flour’. This south Indian lexical
item, found in Dravidian languages such as Malayalam and Tamil, is also
present in the northern creoles of Korlai (Clements 1996:272), Bassein
(Dalgado 1906:217), and Daman (Clements, in preparation). Thus, it is rea-
sonable to assume Cochin Creole Portuguese or a Portuguese creole of that
area was taken north to the Korlai and Daman areas, as well as eastwards. For
example, the lexical item apa is also found in Macau Creole Portuguese,
which Batalha (1988:47) attributes to Indo-Portuguese.
Clements (2000) argues for the existence of an Asian pidgin Portuguese
that initially formed in Cochin among the soldiers and the indigenous people
in that area. Subsequently, Portuguese soldiers, accompanied by natives who
spoke pidgin Portuguese or a creole, would have populated the settlements in
Goa, Chaul, Bassein, Daman, and Diu in the north. The evidence for a
common Asian pidgin Portuguese is the existence in almost all Asian creoles
of the question word for ‘how’ derived from Portuguese qui laia ‘what
manner’ (> Daman kilay, Norteiro qui lai, Korlai kile, Sri Lankan kilaay,
Kristang klai, and Philippine Creole Spanish kiláya). The presence of the
reflexes of qui laia reinforces the hypothesis that an Asian variety of pidgin
Portuguese, and very possibly an early variety of Cochin Creole Portuguese
was the basis for the Asian Creole Portuguese varieties spoken throughout
5
In its formation, I assume that various varieties of Portuguese (unstable and stable pidgin
Portuguese, Portuguese) and Malayalam would have been the bases on which Cochin Creole
Portuguese was formed (see Clements 1992b, 1993a, 1993b).
60 Portuguese- and Spanish-lexified creole languages
India at the very least. It may be, then, that the origins of case marking in
these Asian creoles could be found in this original Indo-Portuguese creole.
I will present the case for the creoles in India, and afterwards consider it for
other Asian creoles.
Given that we find Dravidian influence in the lexicon of the northern Indo-
Portuguese as well as in those in Malaysia and Indonesia, etc., we might also
expect to find some structural influence from Dravidian in the same creoles.
The data suggest that this is also the case, though for the non-Indo-Portuguese
creoles in Asia there are also alternative explanations.
I first examine the relevant type of case marking in Malayalam. In this
Dravidian language, there are several within-group syncretisms, namely -kke
‘dative/recipient, benefactive’ and -konD
e
‘Cause, Instrument’. The cross-
group syncretism, i.e., the violation to the COH, is -VTe (see Table 3.7),
which marks both the dative/recipient and the comitative relation. Malayalam
possesses three distinct ways of marking the Comitative relation: the affix
-ooT
e
is found in literary Malayalam (LM), whereas the compound suffixes
-yuTe kuuTe and -yu mayi are common in spoken Malayalam (SM). There is,
however, a semantic difference between -kk
e
and -ooT
e
as markers of the
Dative/Recipient role: the semantics of -kk
e
does not imply that what the
recipient receives will in turn be delivered to another, whereas the semantics
of -ooTe does contain this implication.
There are contexts in which one but not the other morpheme is acceptable.
For example, a favour or an act of assistance cannot usually be delivered by
an intermediary. For this reason, (3.11a) is acceptable, but (3.11b) is not.
(3.11a) Manushayan kuTTikke oru sahaayam cheithu koduthu.
man child-dat one favour did gave
‘The man did the child a favour.’
(3.11b) *Manushayan kuTTiooTe oru sahaayam cheithu koduthu.
man child-dat one favour did gave
‘The man did the child a favour.’
Table 3.7. Subsequent and antecedent roles in Malayalam
subsequent antecedent
Dat/Rec Ben Cause Instr Comit
Malayalam -kke, -ooTe -kke, -kke
vendi
-konDe -konDe -ooTe (LM), -yuTe kuuTe
(SM), -yu mayi (SM)
Note: The grey shading indicates syncretisms.
LM: literary Malayalam.
SM: spoken Malayalam.
3.4 Case marking 61
In a neutral context, however, both are acceptable with the difference that
with the suffix -kke
the notion of further conveyance is not expressed,
whereas with -ooT
e
it is, as illustrated by the examples in (3.12).6
(3.12a) ore
~l kuTTikke pusthekem koduthu.
man child-dat book gave
‘The man gave the book to the child.’
(3.12b) ore
~l kuTTiooTe pusthekem koduthu.
man child-dat book gave
‘The man gave the book to the child (with the understanding that the child
would deliver it to someone else).’
I assume that this cross-group marking found in Malayalam was present in the
1500s and in the process of learning pidgin Portuguese and in the process of
creolization of pidgin Portuguese, the cross-group dative–comitative syn-
cretism -ooTe
in Malayalam found its way into the structure of Cochin pidgin
Portuguese and subsequently Cochin Creole Portuguese. The suffixes most
used currently in Malayalam to express instrumental/cause (-konD
e
) and
comitative (-yuTe kuuT
e
, -yu mayi) are arguably more recent developments in
Malayalam. In a linguistic study of the fifteenth-century Kannassa Ramayana
in Malayalam, Pillai (1973:281–284) does not list them, but does include
-ooTu (> -ooT
e
), as well as -kku (> -kk
e
). In Pillai (ibid.), it is not surprising
that no dative reading is linked with -ooT
e
, given that it is principally a comi-
tative marker. Nevertheless, it is not unreasonable to assume that, around the
start of the sixteenth century, -ooTe was a comitative marker but in spoken
language could also have been used to mark the dative of further conveyance.
As the Malayalam-influenced pidgin/creole Portuguese from Cochin was
taken up the coast by the Portuguese soldiers and the native Indian speakers
of the language, I suggest that this Portuguese variety would have served as a
basis for the case-marking system found in Korlai Creole Portuguese. The
6
In its ‘further conveyance’ reading, the semantics of -ooTe
is reminiscent of the semantics of
causative suffixes in languages such as Kannada, Hindi, and other Indic languages. However, it
seems that the use of -ooTe as an indirect object marker is not related to today’s causative
construction in Malayalam, shown in the examples here.
(a) Ram aahaaram kazhikkunu.
Ram food eat-is
‘Ram is eating the food.’
(b) Ram Siitaye aahaaram kazhippiikkunnu.
Ram Siita-ACC food eat-CAUS-is
‘Ram is making Siita eat the food.’
(c) Ram Siita-konDe
Gitaye kazhippiikkunnu.
Ram Siita-INST Gita-ACC eat-CAUS-is
‘Ram is making Siita make Gita eat the food.’
62 Portuguese- and Spanish-lexified creole languages
syncretism could not have come from Marathi, the language in contact
with Korlai CP, because Marathi exhibits no violations of the COH (see
Pandharipande 1997:305–322).
It is interesting that in the sources available there are no other cross-group
syncretisms found in the creoles further north of Korlai, i.e., in Norteiro, Daman,
or Diu Creole Portuguese. These creoles also have in common the future marker
a(d), instead of lo found in the creoles of Cochin, Korlai, Sri Lanka, Kristang,
and Macau. Thus, it seems that the creoles of Daman, Diu, and Bassein followed
a somewhat different development, with influence from features of a different
ecology, one that does not seem to have had as much, or any, influence from the
Cochin variety of Indo-Portuguese creole. For the creoles in Daman and Diu,
note that Gujarati, the contact language, does not exhibit any cross-group vio-
lations of the COH (Masica 1993:242–247).
With respect to case marking in the Portuguese creoles to the east of India
and Sri Lanka, there may have been other potentially influential factors other
than Malayalam, namely the contact languages of Kristang, East Timor CP,
and Philippine Creole Spanish. At that time in Malaysia, the Portuguese had
contact with Hokkien and Malaysian Bazaar Malay, a lingua franca
developed between the Malay and Hokkien Chinese speakers in that area and
spoken during the time the Portuguese began contact with speakers of the
Malacca area. Hokkien exhibits no cross-group syncretisms, but Malaysian
Bazaar Malay does, and in this respect seems to have been similar (to the best
of our current knowledge) to Vehicular Malay, which itself was a lingua
franca in what today is Indonesia. For my purposes, I assume that with regard
to case-marking syncretisms, Malaysian Bazaar Malay and Vehicular Malay
(VM) displayed the same pattern. In any case, VM was also used around
Malacca when there was a Portuguese colony there, and in fact had been used
in that area a long time before the Portuguese arrival.7
The earliest documented examples of VM, a word list and letters from
Ternate, a Portuguese colony at that time, date from the early 1500s. Ricklefs
(1978) provides written evidence of VM in the Batavia–Tugu area in the 1500s
and early 1600s. Baba Malay, a creolized variety of Malaysian Bazaar Malay
that developed in Malacca around the same time, was also spoken (see
Map 3.1). An expert on these varieties states that the syncretisms found in
these languages today were already in place in the 1500s and 1600s (personal
communication, Scott Paauw, 7 January 2005). Specifically, in these language
contact varieties, the form sama is used to mark the antecedent relations of
instrument and accompaniment, as well as the subsequent relation of IO.8
7
I thank Scott Paauw for his assistance with the information on VM in this section.
8
Paauw (personal communication, 7 January 2005) reports that written documents in VM from
the 1500s are easily intelligible today and that he has not found any significant differences.
3.4 Case marking 63
The examples in (3.13)–(3.15), provided to me by Paauw, are from col-
loquial Jakarta Indonesian, a descendant of VM, and closely reflect what can
be found in other descendants of VM. In these examples, the standard Malay/
Indonesian spelling is used.
(3.13) Marta potong kain sama piso.
Marta cut cloth sama knife
‘Marta cut the cloth with a knife.’
(3.14) John pi toko sama Marta.
John go store sama Marta
‘John went to the store with Marta.’
(3.15) Marta kasi buku sama John.
Marta give book [sama] John
‘Marta gave the book to John.’
JAVA
BORNEO
CELEBES
PHILIPPINES
Makassar
Malacca
MALAYSIA
S
U
M
A
T
R
A
TIMOR
Jakarta
(Tugu)
Dili
(Bidau)
Lifau
Larantuka
Map 3.1. The Malaysia–Indonesia area (taken from Baxter 1990:1).
Moreover, the various varieties of Malay which developed from sixteenth-century VM are
remarkably similar today as well – and indeed are easily mutually intelligible (excluding
Sri Lankan Malay, which has been geographically removed from the area for centuries).
64 Portuguese- and Spanish-lexified creole languages
Thus, the use of sama here suggests that at least Kristang (Malacca Creole
Portuguese) arguably inherited the marking pattern from an earlier variety of
VM, Malaysian Bazaar Malay, or Baba Malay.
Regarding Philippine Creole Spanish (referred to as Zamboangueño or
Chavacano in Mindanao), the variety of Creole Portuguese spoken on Ternate
(in Indonesia) may have had a pattern like that of Kristang before its
speakers were transported to the Philippines in the early seventeenth century
(Whinnom 1956). Since that time, it seems that Tagalog in the Manila area
and local Philippine languages in the Zamboanga area may have influenced
marking patterns in Philippine Creole Spanish. Fernández (2006) addresses
the reason for the existence of a high degree of syncretism in Philippine
Creole Spanish case marking. He notes that in the Philippine languages, as in
Austronesian languages in general, there is an agent-oriented case-marking
system in which non-agents, especially the theme/patient arguments that are
animate or human, are demoted to obliques. Oblique markers from various
relevant Philippine languages are shown in Table 3.8.
As is clear from the form of the markers, Zamboangueño na corresponds in
its CV syllable structure to the common-noun oblique markers in the other
Philippine languages (sa, pa, ha). Similarly, Zamboangueño con corresponds
to the markers from the different languages shown in Table 3.8 not only in its
form but also in that it begins with /k/. Moreover, Zamboangueño has bor-
rowed the plural oblique marker canda for proper nouns and kinship terms.
Fernández argues that the form of the oblique markers in the Philippine
languages influenced the selection of na and con as the oblique markers in
Zamboangueño. These facts, along with the fact that the Ternateño Creole
Portuguese may have already had a similar marking system, account for the
syncretisms in Philippine Creole Spanish, shown in Table 3.9. It also accounts
for their deviation from the COH.
To summarize this section, my examination has brought to light an
empirical observation regarding the lexical encoding of oblique semantic
roles in Spanish- and Portuguese-based creoles: there are syncretisms in the
Asian creoles that violate Croft’s Causal Order Hypothesis. I have offered an
account for the presence of the violation, suggesting that this peculiarity in
some Indo-Portuguese varieties is due to influence from Malayalam, whose
speakers most likely introduced the violation from Malayalam into the
Cochin variety of Portuguese they created. Subsequently, the Cochin variety
conceivably influenced Korlai CP, which contains a very similar cross-group
syncretism that is not due to influence from Marathi, Korlai’s contact lan-
guage, because Marathi does not contain the syncretism in question.
I have argued that the syncretism in Kristang (Malacca CP) is arguably due
to the influence of a variety of Bazaar Malay, which had and has the same
cross-group syncretism present in Kristang. Finally, for Philippine Creole
3.4 Case marking 65
Spanish, I have assumed that Ternate CP had a similar syncretism due to its
contact with Vehicular Malay. When the speakers of Ternate CP were taken to
the Philippines, the cross-group syncretism was maintained and strengthened
due to the influence of the case-marking system of the Philippine languages.
3.5 Concluding remarks
In this chapter, I reviewed the situation in southern Portugal in the late
fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries. I showed examples of Africans’ speech
and argued that similar L2 varieties of African Portuguese were one integral
part of the Portuguese pidgin that formed along the African west coast during
that time. I also observed that key features in the L2 varieties are also found in
the Portuguese-based creoles. For me, this suggests a developmental con-
nection between L2 Portuguese, pidgin Portuguese, and certain tense–aspect
features of the Portuguese-based creoles.
Table 3.9. Subsequent and antecedent roles in
Philippine Creole Spanish
Subsequent Antecedent
Dat/Rec Ben Cause Instr Comit
kon kon, para na, porkawsa de(l) kon kon
Note: The grey shading indicates syncretisms.
Table 3.8. Forms used to mark the oblique in various
Philippine languages
Language
Oblique case markers
Common noun Proper nouns and kinship terms
Singular Plural
Cebuano sa kang kanila ni
Ilonggo sa kay kanday
Magindanaon sa kanı́ kanilá
Tagalog sa kay kina (ant. kana)
Tausug pa, ha kan kanda
Waray-Waray ha kan kanda
Zamboangueño na con canda
Note: The grey shading indicates syncretisms.
Source: Adapted from Fernández 2006.
66 Portuguese- and Spanish-lexified creole languages
In section 3.4, I discussed the significance of the Causal Order Hypothesis
(Croft 1991, 1998) for the structure of the Portuguese- and Spanish-based
creoles. While the predictions made by the COH are adhered to by the
African creoles in question, they are shown to be violated by the Asian–
Portuguese creoles. I traced these violations back to similar violations in
certain of the substrate languages, namely to Malayalam for Korlai CP, to
Malaysian Bazaar Malay and Vehicular Malay for Malacca and Ternate CP
respectively, and to Vehicular Malay and the case-marking system in the
Philippine languages in the case of Philippine Creole Spanish. The influence
of the local languages in the restructuring of the case-marking systems in
these Asian Portuguese creoles suggests a Founder Principle effect (Mufwene
2001:28–29) in that the case systems that developed in each creole were
predetermined by the traits of the vernaculars spoken by the populations
present in the founding of the colonies in which the creoles developed. In this
respect, then, this chapter has highlighted the importance of processes
involved in naturalistic L2 acquisition and substrate influence in the forma-
tion and development of certain markers. However, it has also underscored
that both language acquisition processes and processes involved in language
shift (e.g., the introduction of native language structure into a naturalistically
learned second language) must be taken into account to be able to understand
the structure of creole languages. This is, in essence, the prediction of the
Founder Principle.
3.5 Concluding remarks 67
4 Bozal Spanish of Cuba
4.1 Introduction
The debate about whether there was ever a Spanish-lexified creole language
spoken in Cuba or elsewhere in the Caribbean is complex and there are
arguments for and against its putative existence. Given the overwhelming
evidence in the Caribbean of creoles lexified by French, English, Portuguese,
and Dutch, there is no a priori reason to exclude the possibility of a Spanish-
lexified creole having existed in the Spanish-speaking area of the Caribbean.1
Specifically in the case of Cuba, Otheguy (1973) argues that references
regarding the presence of a black bozal Spanish in Cuba go back more than
one hundred years, suggesting that there was once a Spanish creole spoken by
the African (and African descendant) population in Cuba. Granda (1978) and
Schwegler (1993, 1996a) maintain that a widespread Spanish-based creole
was possibly spoken throughout the Spanish Caribbean and Latin America,
but that it underwent significant de-creolization, such that today there are only
vestiges of it found in the Spanish spoken in Cuba. Perl (1987) discusses texts
found in Cabrera (1954) which contain re-structuring like that found in cre-
oles, and more recently Ortiz López (1998) finds evidence of re-structuring
reminiscent of creole structure in the speech of older Afro-Cubans currently
living in more isolated regions of the island.
Not all scholars, however, share this view. McWhorter (2000), for instance,
argues forcefully that no Spanish-based creole ever existed in Cuba or any-
where else in Latin America. He develops an Afro-genesis hypothesis for New
World creoles in which he proposes that creole languages developed in West
African trade settlements where many of the African slaves were sent before
their coerced migration to the New World. However, since such trade settle-
ments were not established by the Spanish and few were ever acquired by them,
Spanish did not have the opportunity to become the lexifier language for the
1
Papiamentu is considered today a Spanish-based creole but, as we saw in the previous chapter,
it developed from a Portuguese-lexified creole.
68
creoles spoken in the New World.2
Mufwene (2001) also maintains that there
never was a Spanish creole spoken in Cuba, citing external ecological condi-
tions as the main reason for the lack of development of a creole there.
With respect to the actual language varieties spoken in Cuba during the
eighteenth to twentieth centuries, scholars have long discussed the various
features that characterize the Spanish of the Cuban bozales, that is, the lan-
guage of the first-generation Africans enslaved or working as freedmen in
Cuba during this period. The earliest published reference that I am aware of
on the traits of bozal Spanish is found in Pichardo (1953). A late nineteenth-
century source on the linguistic characteristics of bozal Spanish can also be
found in the work of Bachiller y Morales (1977). With such descriptions of
bozal Spanish features, the question arises regarding the extent to which they
suggest the existence of a Spanish-based creole language, in either vestigial or
full form. The two viewpoints briefly outlined above are at odds: one camp
views the presence of the features as evidence suggesting a prior creole
(e.g., Otheguy 1973; Granda 1978; Perl 1982, 1987; and Schwegler 1993,
1996a, among others). Opponents of this view argue that the data suggest a
case of natural second language acquisition (e.g. Lipski 1985, 1994, 2000;
McWhorter 2000; and Mufwene 2001, to name some of the major ones). Ortiz
López (1998) and Lipski (1998) propose that a creole or creole-like variety of
Spanish may have developed in isolated parts of Cuba, the remnants of which
are believed to be captured in texts and accounts such as those published by
Cabrera (1954) and Ortiz López (1998). Lipski (1994:102, 111–113; 2005) also
mentions the possibility of the influence of Papiamentu on bozal Spanish due to
the influx of Papiamentu-speaking workers into Cuba to work on plantations.
To be able to consider the possibility of a Spanish-lexified creole forming
in the Caribbean or anywhere in the Spanish-speaking colonies, there are key
circumstances that have to have been present. First, the external ecological
conditions had to support the formation of a creole language. Second, the
attitude of the speakers had to be such that interaction between two or more
speech communities would be possible. Concerning this latter point, African
captives brought to the Caribbean to be sold into slavery or African slaves
brought to Cuba from elsewhere in the Caribbean needed to interact with
fellow slaves and the slave bosses if they wanted to survive. Regarding the
external ecological conditions, an examination of the black–white ratio in the
demographic make-up of the Caribbean in general and of Cuba in particular
should shed light on whether the demographic conditions ever supported the
formation of a creole language.
2
In 1778, the Spanish came into possession of some slave-trading stations on the west coast of
Africa, thereby creating an African base for their slave trade in the Americas (see Aimes
1967:38). These were, nevertheless, the few exceptions referred to by McWhorter.
4.1 Introduction 69
Curtin (1969:88–89) gives a speculative geographical distribution of slave
imports during the whole period of the Atlantic slave trade. He estimates that
around 5,093,000 slaves were imported to the Caribbean Islands and South
America (excluding Brazil). Of these, roughly 1,331,000 slaves were sent to
Spanish-speaking countries. Table 4.1 gives the breakdown according to
country/region. Note that, according to Curtin’s figures, over half of the
slaves from West Africa were imported to Cuba alone. Thus, it stands to
reason that it would be there where we would expect to find the necessary and
sufficient conditions for the formation of a Spanish-lexified creole language.
In this chapter, I first present a survey of Cuba’s social history, using
available population figures to trace the fluctuations of the black-to-white
population from the fifteenth to the twentieth centuries. As a key part of the
puzzle, I highlight the instrumental role of the Spanish crown in the slow
development of commerce in the Spanish colonies until the second half of the
eighteenth century. I then discuss a newly discovered source of evidence on
early bozal Spanish of Cuba, taken from Clements and Davis (2004). At face
value, it supports the view that there never was a Spanish-based creole spoken
on Cuba. The evidence comes from the unusual correspondence in 1835
between two academics, Francis Lieber in the United States and José de la
Luz Caballero (henceforth de la Luz) in Cuba, both important figures in the
early history of linguistics in their respective countries. In the exchange,
Lieber asks de la Luz very direct questions about the nature of what Lieber
assumes to be creole Spanish in Cuba. De la Luz, a polyglot philologist
familiar with creole languages such as Haitian Creole French in Haiti,
responds that a Spanish creole did not exist in Cuba and includes in his
Table 4.1. Distribution of the estimated 1,331,000 slaves in the
Spanish-speaking Caribbean Islands and in South America
(excluding Brazil)
Country Number Percentage
Dominican Republic 30,000 2.25
Cuba 702,000 52.74
Puerto Rico 77,000 5.79
Spanish South America 522,000 39.22
Argentina, Uruguay
Paraguay, Bolivia 100,000 7.51
Chile 6,000 0.45
Peru 95,000 7.14
Colombia, Panama, Ecuador 200,000 15.03
Venezuela 121,000 9.09
Total 1,331,000 100
70 Bozal Spanish of Cuba
correspondence a commentary of the most common features of bozal Spanish,
as well as annotations on the Catequismo acomodado á la capacidad de los
negros bozales ‘Catechism adapted to the capacity of the black bozales’,
initially published in 1796. (He used the reprinted edition from 1818.)
De la Luz’s comments, along with the information on Cuba’s socio-
linguistic ecology from the beginning of colonization to the twentieth cen-
tury, suggest that conditions in Cuba were not conducive to the development
of a stable pidgin or a creole. A comparative examination of the traits of bozal
Spanish mentioned by de la Luz in 1835 and those listed by scholars such as
Perl (1987) and Lipski (1985, 1994, 2005) also supports the conclusion that,
overall, the nature of the traits is more consistent with untutored second
language acquisition or with an incipient pidgin than with the presence of a
stable pidgin or a bona fide creole.3
Let us now turn to the discussion of the
external ecology of Cuba under colonization.
4.2 Cuba’s external ecology under Spanish colonization
In my survey of the socio-historical situation in Cuba from the time of the
initial European contact until the twentieth century, I cover certain social and
labour-related aspects of the history of Cuba, focusing on four general periods
(1492–1554, 1555–1696, 1697–1762, and 1763–1808).4
This will take us into
a discussion of the demographic picture of Cuba in the nineteenth century,
highlighting the key role played by the Spanish crown in the limited slave
trade in the Spanish colonies. Only after the crown loosened its hold on slave
trade, which began to take place after 1763, did Cuba develop the necessary
conditions for the possible emergence of a pidgin and creole linguistic system.
This survey of Cuban history will also serve as a backdrop for the dis-
cussion of the 1835 correspondence between Francis Lieber and José de la
Luz, whose letter exchange offers detailed information about whether or not
Cuban bozal Spanish is a vestige of a Spanish-based creole language. Before
dealing with the later phases of colonial Cuba, I would first like to touch
3
Lipski advances different specific positions on the pidgin or creole nature of bozal Spanish,
depending on the population being referred to. Regarding the speech of the slaves on the large
Cuban sugar plantations he (1998:317) states: ‘bozal speech [i.e., speech of the first-generation
Africans] could have become the native language of the next generation. I agree with Perl that
bozal speech could have become a creole in very special circumstances [ . . . ] [I] do not know
anything about the history of the most isolated slaves and because of this I cannot exclude the
possibility of a creole’ (my translation). Lipski (2000) speaks of the ‘incipient restructuring’ of
Spanish among two ethnic groups from Africa in nineteenth-century Cuba. In general, he
considers the ‘Afro-Hispanic pidgin’ Spanish spoken by bozales to be a transient phenomenon.
I address these questions in more detail later in this chapter.
4
Unless otherwise indicated, the information in this section is based on that found in Clements
and Davis (2004).
4.2 Cuba’s external ecology under Spanish colonization 71
briefly upon the reasons why the indigenous population of Cuba played little
or no role in the subsequent development of the island.
When in 1492 Columbus landed on the island known today as Cuba, it was
inhabited principally by the long-established Ciboneys who lived throughout
the island and the more recently arrived Taı́nos who had settled on its eastern
end, the two having different languages and cultures. Originally, the indi-
genous population on Cuba was thought to hover between 300,000 and
500,000 (ANC 1976:10). When the Spanish colonizers first appeared, they
attempted to enslave the Ciboneys and Taı́nos. This resulted in hundreds of
thousands of deaths due to European diseases, slaughter on the part of the
Spanish, and suicides, infanticides, and induced abortions on the part of
indigenous people. By 1524 (twenty-eight years after the Spanish first
arrived), only around 5,000 natives are said to have remained in Cuba (Masó
1976:20).
Given that in Ciboney culture property was passed on through the women,
the Spanish soldiers were pushed to marry the heirs of the caciques (tribal
chiefs) of the different villages and thereby take over possession of the
natives’ lands. For various reasons, the assimilation of the remaining indi-
genous people into Spanish culture and into Christianity took place rapidly.
The initial slaughter of the natives by Spanish soldiers was justified by the
Spanish crown as a guerra justa, a ‘just war’ against the natives who refused
to accept Christianity (Masó 1976:35). About sixty years afterward (around
1550), the indigenous population, still around 5,000 in number, was liberated
from slavery by Ferdinand the Catholic (ibid.:38), partially influenced by
Queen Isabella, who had always opposed enslaving the indigenous population
(ibid.:35). For the most part, however, the natives in the mountains fused with
the Caucasian population there (ibid.:93). Apart from an effect on the culti-
vation methods the plantation-owners would later adopt, the indigenous
population did not exercise any influence on the economic and political
development in colonial or post-colonial Cuba.
Slaves from Africa were brought, via Spain, to Cuba early on, and in 1524
reports already were circulating of rebellions of the African and indigenous
population (Masó 1976:45). At that time, the white population was relatively
unstable, as during the first sixty years of the colonization many Spaniards
used Cuba as a waystation between Spain and present-day Mexico. In 1544,
some 660 Spaniards lived in Cuba, along with around 5,000 indigenous
people and 800 Africans. Although Masó (ibid.:45) reports on the consider-
able number of mestizos (European–Indian mixed-race people) at that time,
he does not cite any numbers. The overall situation in Cuba between 1492 and
1555 was one of initial economic development (mostly in cattle, hides, and
salted meat) followed by a general deterioration, as the Spaniards tended to
move on to Mexico or Central America.
72 Bozal Spanish of Cuba
During the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, Aimes (1967:18–19) notes
that:
Spain adhered to her policy of rigidly enforced navigation laws, and her colonies had to
depend almost entirely upon their own resources for development . . . Cuba did not fail
to protest against the medieval restrictions from which she was suffering. Particularly,
the need of labourers for developing the plantation system was repeatedly brought to
the attention of the government. Spain did not merely decline to afford relief, but she
even shut off completely, in response to the will of the church, the uncertain supply of
slaves which had occasionally reached the island. As a result, Cuba sank into the
position of a nearly forgotten island. Furthermore, the condition of Cuba was made
more hopeless by giving the right to import slaves to asiento [contract] companies, an
expensive method which placed slaves beyond the reach of poor planters.
Apart from the asientos, there were additional factors during these cen-
turies that put the price of slaves out of reach for many land-owners in Cuba.
Because of larger crews on Spanish ships, the greater costs connected with
ship protection, and Spain’s lack of trading establishments on the African
west coast, the transportation of slaves by the Spanish also cost more, and this
cost was then transferred on to the slave-buyers (Aimes 1967:27).
Although sugarcane had been brought to the island in 1523, authorization
by the crown had to be granted before plantations could be set up and slaves
imported, and it generally took decades before authorization was given. The
first sugar mill in Cuba was installed in 1595; by 1602, seventeen land-owners
of sugar mills and sugar refineries each had around twenty-eight African
slaves (Masó 1976:61) in their respective homestead-sized operations. Over
time, the development of the sugar industry would be one factor in the
decrease in the cattle industry, which had been thriving in seventeenth-
century Cuba.
Around 1608, the population of Cuba was calculated at about 20,000
inhabitants, including whites, blacks, indigenous people, mestizos, and
mulattos. Despite the diseases affecting the overall population of the island, in
1668 there were reportedly 30,000 people in Cuba, with equal proportions of
Africans and Europeans, in addition to roughly 4,000 indigenous Cubans. By
the end of the century, the population had reportedly grown to 50,000
inhabitants in approximately the same black-to-white proportion, just under
half of which still lived in Havana. The growth of the African population at
that time was said to be by natural birth, as well as by further importation of
slaves allowed by asientos, which, as mentioned, were strictly controlled by
the crown and granted only to certain traders.5
During this period, the
Spaniards living in Cuba were largely from Castile and Andalusia, though
5
In each asiento, the details regarding numbers of slaves, period of importation, and price of and
tariff on each slave were predetermined.
4.2 Cuba’s external ecology under Spanish colonization 73
there was also a significant number from the Canary Islands, as well as some
Portuguese, but only in Havana (Masó 1976:66).
During the first half of the eighteenth century, Spain was able to retain its
monopoly on trade in Cuba. When in 1760 an asiento was discussed to import
10,000 slaves over a ten-year period, members of the Cuban company in
charge of slave importation argued that introducing so many slaves in such a
short period would jeopardize the security of the island, citing revolts in other
parts of the Americas as evidence. That is, those in power in Cuba consist-
ently and consciously strove to keep the balance between the black and white
population under control. On this topic, Aimes (1967:31) notes that ‘[t]he
argument, which has been present in the Spanish colonies practically from
first to last, marks the strong aversion from any policy tending to the too rapid
increase of the negro population.’
In the specific period between 1697 and 1762, around 40 per cent of Cuba’s
population resided in or around Havana. Tobacco cultivation and production
predominated during this period because large amounts of land, slave labour,
or capital were not needed for tobacco farming, for which European farmers
used and improved on the cultivation methods adopted from the island’s
indigenous population. In economic terms, sugar cultivation and production
during this period were second to tobacco. In fact, Aimes (1967:21) remarks
that in the eighteenth century ‘Cuban tobacco was a monopoly product with a
wide, growing market.’
During this time, the number of Africans increased due to asientos given to
French and English companies, and illegal importation of slaves from
Jamaica (Masó 1976:93). The slaves worked in sugarcane and tobacco pro-
duction, and many were given freedom by their owners or by the king. Other
Africans were allowed to work as indentured labourers, paying off their
indenture. Moreover, a significant number of blacks, both slaves and freed
coloureds, worked as domestics in Cuba’s urban centres. But other sectors of
the economy were not doing as well. During the latter part of the eighteenth
century, for example, the mining sector (copper and silver) in Santiago
experienced continued rebellions on the part of the slaves (Masó 1976:96).
In the period between 1763 and 1808, problems with rebellions became
more frequent. A wider gap developed between the Spanish rulers and the
Cuban-born population, consisting of descendants of blacks, former con-
querors, and other white people originally from Spain. Outside Cuba, this
period was marked by revolutions in the United States (1776) and France
(1789), and the bloody slave rebellions that started around 1791 in Haiti,
culminating in a revolution and Haiti’s declaration of independence in 1804.
I have already noted that, from the beginning of the Spanish colonization
up to 1763, free commerce did not exist in Cuba. Aimes (1967:4) notes that
‘[t]he strong control which Spain exercised for centuries over the trade of her
74 Bozal Spanish of Cuba
colonies has been spoken of often as a monopoly.’ The pivotal year between
the old, monopoly-like system and the new, liberal system of commerce was
1763, the year in which the English occupied the port of Havana for ten
months. During the first five months of the occupation, the English brought
10,700 bozales (slaves directly from Africa) into Cuba. Instead of contra-
vening the trade policy of this time, it was actually in line with the more
liberalized policy put in place just before King Charles III started his reign in
Spain. The British occupation helped this trend along considerably. Apart
from liberalizing Cuba’s economy, the British presence also resulted in the
introduction into Cuba of many contraband goods.
During this time, the amount of commercial activity increased around
Havana significantly. From the 1774 census we know that there were 1,591
cattle farms and as many as 10,140 butcher shops mostly around Havana
supplying the colonial capital with meat. During this period, the number of
sugar refineries (ingenios) also increased around Havana: from 215 in 1796
(out of a total of 305 on the island) to 480 in 1806 (Masó 1976:109). The
1774 census states that some refineries had as many as 200 slaves (ibid.:112).
Also during this time, three coffee plantations were also located near the
capital.
In terms of volume of trade based on the number of ships per year, Aimes
(1967:35–36) states that before 1762 imports were made in three ships
annually from Spain. The trade with Cuba in 1765 required around six ships,
and in 1778 two hundred ships. In the period between 1765 and 1770, income
from duties collected in Havana increased three-fold and exports from the
whole island increased five-fold.
With respect to slave importation, up to 1763, Aimes (1967:36–39) notes
that roughly 60,000 slaves had been imported overall. From 1763 to 1789,
41,604 slaves were imported, a large portion of whom came from Jamaica
and Grenada. In 1778, subsequent to the Treaty of Pardo (see Middleton 1997
II:51), Spain procured some slave-trading stations on the west coast of Africa,
creating thus a base for its slave trade and lowering the price of slave
importation. In 1784, Havana became the centre of Spanish–American
colonial commerce.
With regard to the black–white population ratio, I mentioned above that the
first official census was taken in 1774. Of the 171,620 inhabitants in Cuba at
that time, 44 per cent (75,180) were coloured (Spanish de color ‘of colour’)
and 56 per cent (96,440) white. Havana was the centre with the densest white
population; the rural areas had a majority of the black population; and in the
far east of the island there were many mestizos (Masó 1976:114). As was the
case historically, almost half of the population lived in Havana. Table 4.2
gives the population numbers from Kiple (1976), whose population figures
are a result of comparing and contrasting data from various sources.
4.2 Cuba’s external ecology under Spanish colonization 75
Table
4.2.
Population
of
blacks
and
whites
in
raw
numbers
and
percentages
in
Cuba
1774–1899
1774
1792
1817
1827
1841
1846
1861
1877
1887
1899
Raw
numbers
Free
coloured
30,847
54,152
114,058
106,314
152,838
149,226
232,493
Male
16,152
25,211
58,885
51,962
75,703
72,651
113,806
Female
14,695
28,941
55,173
54,352
77,135
76,575
118,687
Slaves
44,333
84,590
199,145
286,942
436,495
323,759
370,553
Male
28,771
47,424
124,324
183,290
281,250
201,011
218,722
Female
15,562
37,166
74,821
103,652
155,245
122,748
151,831
Coloured
480,166
a
528,798
520,400
Male
242,938
275,413
252,092
Female
237,228
253,385
268,308
White
96,440
133,559
239,850
311,051
418,291
425,767
793,484
1,475,992
1,102,889
1,052,397
Male
55,576
72,299
130,519
168,653
227,144
230,983
468,107
817,029
607,187
563,113
Female
40,864
61,260
109,331
142,398
191,147
194,784
325,377
658,963
495,702
489,284
Percentages
Coloured
44%
51%
59%
56%
58%
53%
43%
25%
32%
33%
White
56%
49%
41%
44%
42%
47%
57%
75%
68%
67%
Note:
a
Starting
with
this
year,
this
number
refers
to
resident
coloureds,
making
no
distinction
between
free
coloureds
and
slaves.
Source:
Kiple
1976.
During the period from 1774 to 1846, the black population (including
coloured people) in Cuba was between 2 and 18 percentage points higher than
the white population.6
After 1846, the black population declined to 14 per
cent below the white population (1861), and further to between 50 per cent
and 34 per cent of the white population between 1861 and 1899 due to factors
such as war and increasing observance of the abolition of slavery. Although
there are no official censuses before 1774, Masó (1976:115) offers his
approximation of the black–white population ratio in 1532 and 1620, shown
in Table 4.3.7
Up until the nineteenth century a major part of the population of Cuba lived
in the Havana area. Table 4.4 displays the black–white ratio in the colonial
capital between 1774 and 1899.8
In the eighteen years from 1774 to 1792,
the percentage of the black population in the city (including slaves and
free coloureds) rose 11 percentage points (from 43 per cent to 54 per cent).
Although by 1817 the overall population had increased, the black–white
proportions remained steady at 54 per cent and 46 per cent respectively. In
1827, the black population in Havana reached 59 per cent, the highest level
of the century. By 1846, however, it decreased to slightly less than half, at
49 per cent, due to abolition and related factors, and in the following fifteen
years, up to 1861, it decreased further to 32 per cent.
Masó (1976:115) notes that the life of rural slaves in Cuba, especially those
on the sugar plantations, was harder than that of the slaves in the urban areas.
However, the treatment of slaves overall in Cuba was reportedly better than in
the French and English colonies of the area. This was the conclusion, at least,
Table 4.3. Population of Cuba in percentages
from 1532 to 1811
Year Whites Blacks
1532 37.5 62.5
1620 93.4 6.6
1775 56.2 43.8
1792 56.4 43.6
1811 45.5 54.5
Source: Masó 1976:115.
6
See Lipski 2000 for the breakdown of Africans in Cuba according to ethnic groups.
7
A comparison of the year 1792 in Tables 4.2 and 4.3 reveals a discrepancy of percentage
points. I consider Kiple’s data the more reliable as they have been cross-checked with
numerous sources.
8
Kiple (1976) disregards the figures from 1841 and 1877 because of reliability problems in the
censuses for those years.
4.2 Cuba’s external ecology under Spanish colonization 77
Table
4.4.
Population
distribution
between
whites,
free
coloureds,
and
slaves
in
Havana
1774–1899
1774
1792
1817
1827
a
1846
1861
1887
1899
Raw
numbers
Free
coloureds
10,945
9,800
21,372
31,622
37,221
37,768
–
–
Slaves
21,281
17,970
24,341
109,535
67,219
29,013
–
–
Coloureds
–
–
–
–
–
–
116,146
112,214
White
43,392
23,537
38,362
96,671
110,847
138,895
335,782
312,590
Overall
percentages
Black
43%
54%
54%
59%
49%
32%
26%
26%
White
57%
46%
46%
41%
51%
68%
74%
74%
Note:
a
And
rural
areas.
Source:
Kiple
1976.
of Alexander von Humboldt (cited in Masó 1976:115), based on evidence
from his journey to Cuba in 1805; he found that there was a significantly
higher number of manumissions in Cuba than in other European colonies of
the area during the same period. Von Humboldt (cited ibid.:116) attributed
this to a number of reasons: the right of slaves in Cuba to buy their freedom,
religious sentiment of the slave-owners, and the advantages given to those
blacks who performed domestic work or who carried out some form of art or
handicraft.
I noted above that the system of asientos allowed the Spanish crown to
control tightly the importation of slaves to Cuba and elsewhere in their
colonial territories. The increase in the black population relative to that of the
whites in Cuba was a direct result of the aforementioned English ten-month
occupation of Cuba in 1763, and the liberalized policies implemented by
Charles III, whereby slave importation increased dramatically. One conse-
quence of this was that the colonial rulers of the island during this period
moved to encourage the immigration of whites to Cuba, in order to coun-
terbalance the increasing disparity in the black–white ratio on the island
(Masó 1976:116). The rebellions taking place just to the east in Haiti during
this time created fear among Cuban rulers that unrest might spread to their
island. The real cédula, or royal dispatch, of 1817 legally permitted white
foreigners to become naturalized citizens as long as they were Catholic and
settled on the island indefinitely. They received free passage to Cuba, food for
a limited time, and one thirteen-hectare parcel of land. Among those
responding to the calls for white immigration in Cuba during this period were
many Catalans, who joined the former Canary Islanders, Galicians, Andalu-
sians, and an enclave of French who in the wake of the Haitian rebellions had
crossed to settle on the eastern end of Cuba.
Comparing population distributions of different Caribbean islands, we see
that the distribution of Cuba’s population was more balanced than that of the
other islands. For example, at the end of the eighteenth century (1792), Cuba
had 54,152 (20 per cent) free coloureds, 84,590 (31 per cent) slaves, and
133,559 (49 per cent) whites.9
By contrast, around that time Haiti had
452,000 (98 per cent) slaves and 11,000 (2 per cent) whites.
In the period 1808–1837, the sugarcane industry in Cuba expanded,
affecting the cultivation of tobacco, which shifted more to the west of the
island but maintained its importance for the economy. Coffee cultivation was
already experiencing difficulty because it could not compete in the foreign
9
These figures are taken from Kiple 1976. Masó’s figures (1976:161) for the end of the
eighteenth century are 81,847 (37 per cent) free coloureds, 44,333 (20 per cent) slaves, and
96,440 (43 per cent) whites. Again, I take Kiple’s figures to be more accurate because he
reports having cross-checked them with various other sources.
4.2 Cuba’s external ecology under Spanish colonization 79
market, which produced coffee of a superior quality more efficiently (Masó
1976:154–156). In 1837, Cuba was still a country of small land-owners in
which nearly half of its land raised tobacco, cattle, coffee, etc., valued at
41 million pesos, whereas the land dedicated to the production of sugarcane
was smaller and yielded only 22 million pesos. The small land-owners, notes
Masó (ibid.:171), administered their own lands and lived side by side with the
black population. He remarks that cattle raising and tobacco growing on
small acreages required less overhead and fewer slaves than did sugarcane
cultivation.
In the period around 1837, there was little difference between small
business owners and those employed by bosses for a wage. At that time,
barbers went house to house and tobacconists often operated alone. Havana
had 306 tobacco shops which paid wages to their 2,152 employees, of which
612 were black and 1,540 white (Masó 1976:171). Thus, the black population
made up a substantial share of certain parts of the job market and constituted
an integral part of Cuban society.
To conclude this section, from the inception of Cuba as a Spanish colony,
the Spanish crown sought and succeeded in closely controlling trade with the
island until 1763. The result of this strict control on trade was that for two
centuries commerce was made to depend more heavily on the production of
goods that did not require a large labour force, e.g., tobacco, cattle raising,
etc. The other consequence of the crown’s control on trade was that the
population of African slave labourers was held in check with respect to the
white population. With the exception of the situation in 1532 (see Table 4.3),
it was only after 1792 that the black population began to outnumber white
people on the island. Census records indicate that, between 1774 and 1846,
black people outnumbered the white population by between 2 and 18 per-
centage points (see Table 4.2). That is, the racial imbalance in terms of
population favoured black people for around seventy years, a significant
percentage of whom were free coloureds, who were better integrated into
Cuban society than slaves. Moreover, nearly half of the agricultural activity
was carried out on small-scale farms raising tobacco, cattle, and coffee, in
which the black-to-white ratio was also maintained in balance. Such condi-
tions, I argue (along with Chaudenson 1992; Lipski 1985, 1994; and Muf-
wene 2001), were not conducive to the formation or development of a stable
pidgin or a creole language in Cuba. While I concede that on some sugarcane
plantations the demographic conditions favoured the formation of a pidgin,
the time during which this was the case was between 1770 and 1840. If there
had been contact varieties of Spanish formed in Cuba during this period,
they would have been at most incipient pidgins and at least the result of
untutored second language acquisition. Other restructured varieties, such as
Papiamentu, may also have played a role in the restructuring of Spanish found
80 Bozal Spanish of Cuba
documented by researchers (see Cabrera 1954 and Ortiz López 1998). It also
stands to reason that, had there been a more widespread pidgin or creole
during this time in Cuba, various language experts in Cuba familiar with
English- and French-based creole languages would probably have known
about it. At this juncture, the recently discovered exchange between the
American academic and philologist Francis Lieber and the Cuban educator
and philologist José de la Luz takes on an added importance in the debate
regarding a purported Spanish pidgin or creole in Cuba.
4.3 The letter exchange between Francis Lieber
and José de la Luz
The 1835 correspondence on Cuban bozal Spanish between Francis Lieber
and José de la Luz is of particular interest because Lieber had written
about Caribbean creoles in the first edition of the Encyclopedia Americana
(13 volumes, 1829–1832) under the entry ‘creole dialects’ and de la Luz was
known to have detailed knowledge about the language situation in Cuba. Both
these men were highly educated, multi-lingual, and well versed in the lin-
guistic issues of the period. In examining the range of interests reflected in
Lieber’s language-related writings, the common theme of language devel-
opment and change in progress emerges. His entry in the Encyclopedia
Americana gives some insight into what he knew about the Caribbean creoles
and how he viewed them:
Creole dialects are those jargons which have originated from the mixture of different
languages in the West Indies. They are spoken by the slaves, who have destroyed the
fine grammatical construction of the European languages, and have intermixed with
them some original African words. According to the European language which pre-
vails in a Creole dialect, it is called French-Creole, Danish-Creole, &c. In St Thomas,
for instance, the latter is spoken; in Hayti, French-Creole. Among the numerous
corruptions of European words and constructions, we find very generally, in the Creole
dialects, the corruptions of grammar common among children; for instance, me is used
instead of I. Often no distinction is made between the possessive pronoun and the
personal; e.g., me house for my house, or wi massra for our master. The infinitive is
used for the finite tenses, as moi donner for je donne.
In this passage we see that Lieber is aware of the role of the lexifier language
in Caribbean creoles, the possible African influence, a connection with lan-
guage acquisition, and specific linguistic features of creole languages. It is
perhaps of interest that he does not specifically mention Spanish-Creole in the
passage. We know that Lieber assumed there was a Spanish-based creole in
Cuba because of the nature of his questions sent to de la Luz.
As for José de la Luz (1800–1862), he was born in Havana, Cuba, into a
well-known aristocratic family. His great uncle was the Catholic priest Father
4.3 Letters between Francis Lieber and José de la Luz 81
José Agustı́n Caballero (1762–1835) who was considered by some to be the
most outstanding cultural figure in Cuba during the first half of the nineteenth
century and was one of the first to address the question of an independent
Cuba (see Masó 1976:119). An educator, Father José Agustı́n taught at the
renowned San Carlos and San Ambrosio Seminary in Havana and was the
teacher of many key Cuban thinkers of the period, one of whom was his great
nephew José de la Luz.
The Cuba of the first half of the nineteenth century was one in which there
was on the one hand a highly educated aristocracy comprising a small
minority of the population, who became the doctors, lawyers, and clergy, and
on the other the rest of the people of the island, black as well as white, who
were illiterate (Rodriguez 1874:16). De la Luz grew up in a Havana in which
more than half of the population during his first twenty-seven years was
black. Many of the aristocratic families in Havana had domestic slaves, and
José de la Luz grew up with domestic slaves in his house as well.
In his studies, de la Luz excelled in Latin, philosophy, and physics, among
other things. In 1817, he graduated as bachiller en filosofı́a, and in 1820 as a
bachiller en leyes (lit. ‘graduate in laws’), after which he decided to dedicate
his life and energy to learning and education. Between 1828 and 1832, de la
Luz travelled to the United States and Europe, meeting figures such as
Henry W. Longfellow, Sir Walter Scott, Alexander von Humboldt, and
Francis Lieber. He returned to Cuba and put his time and energy into matters
of education.
In a letter dated 4 June 1835 sent by Francis Lieber to William Picard in
Cuba, Lieber asks eighteen specific questions on the language situation in
Cuba. Picard forwarded the letter to José de la Luz, who not only gives detailed
responses to Lieber’s queries but also provides his own linguistic commentary
on a late eighteenth-century catechism written expressly for chaplains or
priests working among Afro-Cubans. De la Luz’s letter and commentary
provide an important contemporary source on the nature of bozal Spanish in
Cuba of the 1830s. I divide this section into two parts. In section 4.3.1, I present
in translation from Spanish de la Luz’s detailed response to Lieber’s questions,
and in section 4.3.2, in translation, his detailed linguistic commentary on the
catechism. De la Luz’s commentary provides particulars on the nature of bozal
Spanish with comparison to other varieties of Spanish spoken in Cuba. It
supports the view that a Spanish creole in Cuba did not exist.
4.3.1 Lieber’s eighteen questions
While I have not seen a copy of the original letter from Lieber to Picard
requesting information on a Cuban Spanish creole, his eighteen specific
queries on the language situation in Cuba are made known in the response he
82 Bozal Spanish of Cuba
received from José de la Luz (in Spanish) dated 31 July 1835.10
Below are
Lieber’s eighteen questions rendered in English with de la Luz’s responses
(material in square brackets is added for clarity):
[T]he first twelve questions are briefly answered. The clearest ones I will answer
categorically one by one, and then I will move on to whatever needs to be said about
the others.
1. Does the population of colour of that [island] still speak Creole?
To the 1st one: No
2. Is there anything published in that dialect?
To the 2nd one: As a consequence, it cannot exist.
3. or some dictionary?
To the 3rd one: No
4. or the Bible?
To the 4th one: No
5. or some songs, or small works?
To the 5th one: No (although they sing a lot, mixing their languages with
ours).
6. Does there still exist in Cuba a Spanish creole?
To the 6th one: It neither exists nor did it ever.
7. Does it differ much from the Spanish creole that is spoken in other islands?
To the 7th one: It has already been noted what the variations consist of, that
is, of loose words and not phrases.
8. Has there been any book published in creole, like in the territories of the
Danish crown?
To the 8th one: There is nothing printed, except what has been said.
10
In a response to Lieber dated 1 August 1835, William Picard introduces José de la Luz (whom
Lieber had previously met). Picard writes the following in his letter:
I write in the utmost haste to avail myself of an immediate first opportunity for New York and
send you along with the present some very interesting original notes from our enlightened
philologist and philanthropist Don José de la Luz received this moment – these are the replies
to your queries on Creole Dialects which I translated into Spanish for his [de la Luz’s] more
easy understanding and doubt not that they will prove interesting for your investigations as no
one in this country is more competent for any sort of local, literary, historical information . . .
in this respect Don José de la Luz will prove an invaluable correspondent to you.
From Picard’s letter I infer that de la Luz was known among the educated elite in Havana of
the 1830s as one of the most (if not the most) competent source on local historical and
linguistic information.
The letter written by José de la Luz Caballero, as well as his commentary on the catequismo,
can be found amongst Francis Lieber’s papers housed at the Hungtington Library in San
Marino, CA. The existence of the letter and commentary was brought to my attention by
Stuart Davis who had a grant from the Huntington Library to investigate the linguistic related
writings of Francis Lieber. I gratefully acknowledge Stuart Davis for sharing these letters with
me and we acknowledge the Huntington Library for its support.
4.3 Letters between Francis Lieber and José de la Luz 83
9. Has the publishing of books in creole impeded the uniformity of
Catholicism, and the fact that the Divine Service is in Latin?
To the 9th one: According to what has been said, this question cannot be
posed either. However, by delving into the spirit [of the question], I must
say in all fairness that the ecclesiastic class [i.e., the clergy] has done more
for the good of the African race than any other class.
10. Has anyone made a collection of African words or phrases in use among the
Africans, and have these begun to be generalized among the people of
colour?
To the 10th one: Nothing of the kind has been done.
11. Is there much difference between the creole that is spoken in the different
points on the Island?
To the 11th one: It has been answered.
12. Does one preach to the slave sometimes in creole, or always in colloquial
Spanish?
To the 12th one: It has also been answered.
13. Do other publications exist in Cuba from the first missionaries who were
among the Caribs or aborigines?
Tothe13thone:NonethatIknowof,andIshouldknowaboutit,becausemy
uncle, Dr Caballero, was a great researcher of things of this country. What
does exist deals with the history of the island, and that has been published by
the Patriotic Society, through their history department. The publication of
the work by Arrate is the most interesting thing about the Collection, and in
it there is nothing about the missionaries who settled among the Caribs or
aborigines. In the Collection of the Travels of Spaniards, published by Mr
Navarrete in Madrid (and which was especially acknowledged by the
famous Washington Irving) is where one can find some exact information
about the primitive history of the island; also in the works of Herrera
(Décadas)11
and Oviedo. I’ll see if there is something in Sepúlveda’s work,
which, translated from Latin by the above-mentioned Dr Caballero,
remained among his manuscripts. This is a book that provides some inter-
esting data about the primitive history of America, correcting on many
occasions the renowned Las Casas, of whom he was a great antagonist.12
14. What are the titles of those works?
To the 14th one: I have already answered in my previous response.
11
De la Luz may be referring here to Antonio de Herrera y Tordesillas’ Décadas de Indias.
12
Most likely Bartolomé de las Casas is being referred to here. At this point in the manuscript,
we find the following footnote: ‘The most comprehensive work about the aborigines is Las
Casas’ General History of the Indies, which has never been published, and which exists only
four manuscript volumes in the Archives of the Ministry of Grace and Justice in Madrid.
There are also two manuscript copies of the third volume only (which is all about the island of
Cuba) at the Biblioteca Real (“Royal Library”), that is, the national library.’
84 Bozal Spanish of Cuba
15. Are there manuscripts on the language of the Caribs?
To the 15th one: Ditto.
16. Do those exist in some convent or in the bishop’s library?
To the 16th one: It has also been answered.
17. Are the archives of that [library] complete?
To the 17th one: in the Episcopal archives there is more statistical than
historical information, in large part due to the zeal and intelligence of our
true, universal Father, and always grieved for, Bishop Espada.
18. Or have many of the papers belonging to them [the archives] been lost?
To the 18th one: In the other public offices there have been losses of papers
in earlier times, but not in the bishop’s archives. Perhaps moths (which in
this climate are a formidable foe) have gnawed away at an important
document or two, although in the ecclesiastical Curia great pains have
been taken to safeguard the material in good condition and copy whatever
has been moth-eaten, at least under Espada’s watchful eye.
Finally, with regard to the conclusion, I must say that since no foreigner has come to
visit our archives, I have not had the opportunity to know if that would help him/her
with his/her inquiries. But much can be achieved through a venerable person. Havana,
31 July 1835
[As a postscript]: I [de la Luz] reiterate to Dr [Lieber] that I am always at his service,
and that I have read with great pleasure his latest papers. I hope that he will send
others in the same vein, because I too am a friend of humanity, and precisely in and
through the path of education.
Questions such as 6, 7, 9, 11, and 12 suggest that, as previously mentioned,
Lieber assumed there were Spanish creoles in the Caribbean and that a
Spanish creole was or had been spoken in Cuba. It is also clear from question
12 that Lieber distinguished creole Spanish from colloquial Spanish and,
further, that he wondered about variation within the Spanish creole (questions
7 and 11). We also see his interest in African words or phrases that are in use
(question 10). Finally, in questions 13–18 Lieber sought information on the
aboriginal languages of Cuba, expressing interest in personally examining the
government archives there.
De la Luz’s responses to Lieber’s eighteen questions are of interest because
they constitute what I believe to be the earliest recorded discussion on the
issue of a Spanish creole in Cuba. In his responses, as well as in the body of
the letter that accompanied the responses, de la Luz is unequivocal in his
denial that there ever existed a Spanish creole in Cuba. The text and its
translation are found in Appendix A.
De la Luz corrected Lieber’s false assumption of such a creole by pointing
out that while there were corruptions in the pronunciation of Spanish by
Africans it could not be called a creole; rather, it was a variety of Spanish. He
also remarked that there had never existed a Spanish creole in Cuba in his
answer to Lieber’s sixth question about whether one was still in existence at
4.3 Letters between Francis Lieber and José de la Luz 85
that time in Cuba. He did point out that people recently arrived from Africa
would have certain expressions, but that these were mainly of English origin
and probably were learned in the slave huts (barracones) and used to com-
municate during the sea journey. This could be seen as a type of incipient
pidgin English.
In his letter, de la Luz mentioned an eighteenth-century catechism pub-
lished for the clergy who administer to the slaves’ religious needs. He sent
Lieber a commentary on the document, which contains additional information
on the nature of bozal Spanish and again asserts that the Afro-Cubans did not
speak a Spanish creole.
4.3.2 De la Luz’s commentary on the catechism
In 1796, as mentioned, a catechism was published in Cuba aimed at priests
preaching to the bozales. Regarding the bozal speech contained in the cat-
echism, Lipski (1998:312) states that the examples in the text are far from
what would be considered a coherent creole. McWhorter (2000:27) specif-
ically mentions this catechism, citing Castellanos and Castellanos (1992:349)
who note that the priests were instructed to ‘talk to them [i.e. the bozales] in
the kind of language they use, without cases, tenses, conjunctions, agreement,
order.’ This, I argue, would imply a close relation between bozal and the
Foreigner Talk of the priests rather than the existence of a Spanish creole,
especially in comparison with early accounts of Sranan and Haitian, which
are treated as separate languages not obtainable by the restructuring of the
European language. McWhorter concludes that such evidence does not sup-
port the view that bozal Spanish reflected the existence of a creole. The
conclusions of both Lipski and McWhorter are supported by José de la Luz’s
detailed linguistic commentary on this 1796 catechism. De la Luz wrote his
commentary specifically for Lieber in response to this scholar’s inquiries
about what he thought to be a Spanish creole in Cuba. In his commentary,
de la Luz explains that while there are usages and constructions used by
Africans, these constitute neither a dialect nor a creole.
Although the entire commentary is found in Appendix B, I include here the
quote containing the list of the main traits that de la Luz acknowledges as
forming part of bozal Spanish:
1st: use of the adjective instead of the noun, e.g., Dios no habla
mentiroso ‘God does not speak lying’ (page 46, line 6) instead of
mentira ‘lie’; no tiene enfermo ‘he doesn’t have sick’, instead of no
tiene enfermedad ‘he has no sickness’;
2nd: it is very frequent for them to use the plural instead of the
singular with verbs, particularly with the verb ser ‘be’. [There is an]
86 Bozal Spanish of Cuba
example in the following line [of the catequismo]: son verdad [lit.
‘they are true’] instead of es ‘is’; and
3rd: right there, one will note another idiom, which is to repeat the
word verdad ‘true’ to indicate that something is genuine, not bogus,
and generally it is repeated for emphasis.
4th: doing away with the article in the accusative: e.g., Si ustedes
miran huevo ‘if you look at egg’ instead of un huevo ‘an egg’ or el
huevo ‘the egg’; and sometimes in the nominative, too;
5th: not varying [the form of] the adjective, as in English, which is
quite normal. Thus, mismo muger [lit. same-masc woman] instead
of misma muger [lit. same-fem woman];
6th: putting a verb in the third instead of the first person, e.g., yo tiene
dinero ‘I has money’ instead of yo tengo [lit. I have-1sg.pres.
indic] ‘I have’;
7th: similarly, using this third person (form) in place of the infinitive,
e.g., yo quiere compra [lit. I wants buys] instead of comprar ‘to buy’;
8th: sometimes they do not decline the personal pronouns either. Thus,
one often comes across yo ‘I’ in the catechism instead of me ‘me’
[i.e., accusative/dative clitic] or mi ‘me’ [used after prepositions].
9th: quite frequently they delete the prepositions and thus one will see
no está barriga de su madre ‘s/he is not his/her mother’s womb’
instead of en la barriga ‘in his/her mother’s womb’;
10th: The blacks almost always repeat the negative. Thus, they say no
va á juntar no ‘s/he is not going to gather (the things)’, no va á salir
no ‘s/he is not going to leave’;
11th: they also put the adverb in place of the adjective, e.g., hizo malo
‘s/he did bad’ instead of mal ‘badly’;13
12th: they often use the negative adjective ninguno ‘no, not any’
instead of no ‘no’, nada ‘nothing’, nada absolutamente ‘absolutely
nothing’.14
An example from the catechism itself: Puede la yegua
ir al cielo? Ninguno. ‘Can the mare go to heaven? No’; El no
entiende ninguno ‘he does not understand any/no (one)’ instead of
no entiende nada ‘does not understand anything.15
13
In this statement, de la Luz seems to have switched ‘adverb’ with ‘adjective’. It is more likely
that he meant to say that the adjective was often used instead of the corresponding adverb.
14
De la Luz puts an English translation of nada absolutamente (‘nothing at all, by no means’) in
the text.
15
As alluded to by de la Luz, ningun(o) is used to negate NPs, as in ningún edificio fue
construido este año or no fue construido ningún edificio este año ‘no building was built this
year’. Note that if ningún(o) is not in sentence-initial position, there is an obligatory double
negative in Spanish. If ningun(o) appears in sentence-initial position, there is no double
negation. This negation pattern is common in all varieties of Spanish.
4.3 Letters between Francis Lieber and José de la Luz 87
13th: The blacks, that is, those living in the countryside, hardly or
never use the conditional si ‘if’. In its place they simply state the
condition without any particle, e.g., hombre va á luchar, el no tiene
fuerzas, el se cae ‘man goes to fight, he does not have any strength,
he falls’, and in this way the repetition of the pronoun compensates
for the lack of the conditional particle.
It is interesting and revealing that many of the traits mentioned by de la
Luz are also found in more recent lists of bozal Spanish and/or of a putative
Spanish-based creole. In the next section, I compare de la Luz’s list and
comments to those cited by other scholars, including two of de la Luz’s
contemporaries, as well as current researchers of bozal Spanish.
4.4 Comparison of Afro-Cuban Spanish features in
de la Luz (1835) with those in later studies
Two contemporaries of de la Luz also dedicated a considerable amount of
time to questions of language and language variation in Cuba. Esteban
Pichardo was born in 1799 in what was then Santo Domingo, which his
family abandoned for Cuba in 1801 due to the transfer of the country from
Spanish to French rule.16
Pichardo studied in the same San Carlos seminary
as did de la Luz, and it is probable that the two youths knew each other or at
least knew of each other from adolescence onwards. Although Pichardo also
earned a degree in law, he spent little time practising law, dedicating much of
his time and energy to the study of Cuban Spanish and geography, for which
he spent a good deal of time travelling throughout the island (Alonso and
Fernández 1977:72). In 1836, the first edition of Pichardo’s Diccionario
provincial de vozes cubanas was published, but it was in the second edition of
1849 that Pichardo included in the prologue comments on the Spanish of first-
and later-generation Africans in Cuba of that time. He writes (1953:53–54):
Another loose and confusing type of speech is heard daily all over the Island [Cuba]
among the bozal blacks, born in Africa, as happened to the French creole of Santo
Domingo: this speech is common and identical among the blacks, regardless of the
nation of their origin, and they always maintain it unless they came [to Cuba] as young
children: it is a disfigured Castilian, babbled, without grammatical agreement, number,
declension, or conjugation, without strong R, final S or D, with Ll for N, E for I, G for
V, etc. In sum, [it is] a jargon more confusing the more recent the date of their
immigration; but which can be understood by any Spaniard aside from some words
common to all [the black bozales] which need translation . . . . The Creole blacks
16
I have been unable to determine whether William Picard is related to Esteban Pichardo.
Because Lieber wrote to William Picard in English, he would have anglicized his name as was
typical in the academic correspondence of Lieber and others in this time period.
88 Bozal Spanish of Cuba
[those blacks born in Cuba] speak the variety of Spanish spoken by whites in their
vicinity.
Pichardo wrote this excerpt fourteen years after de la Luz’s letter to Lieber,
and the traits mentioned coincide to a large extent with those mentioned by de
la Luz, although de la Luz’s tone in speaking about these varieties is more
neutral than Pichardo’s. The traits also turn out to be common to second
language varieties of Spanish, as Pichardo himself mentions.
The other contemporary of de la Luz, Antonio Bachiller y Morales, was
born in 1812, twelve years after de la Luz, and also attended school at San
Carlos Seminary. Given that de la Luz taught there and was affiliated with the
seminary as an educator, Bachiller y Morales must also have known de la
Luz. Like de la Luz and Pichardo, Bachiller y Morales studied law, gradu-
ating in 1832 with a degree in law from the Real y Pontificia Universidad,
twelve years after de la Luz. Bachiller y Morales specialized in civil law, and
held various administrative positions in education and government. In 1862,
at the age of fifty, he stepped down as dean of the School of Philosophy and in
1863 took on the directorship of the Institute of Secondary Education, which
he was forced to relinquish in 1869 because of his separatist ideas regarding
Cuba. He spent the following ten years (1869–1878) in the United States,
after which he returned to Cuba as a journalist.
Bachiller y Morales was asked to respond to an 1882 letter from linguist
and creolist Hugo Schuchardt, in which Schuchardt expressed interest in
knowing about alterations that Spanish had undergone in the mouths of
Africans and their descendants in Cuba. In his 1883 response, Bachiller y
Morales (1977:107) states that one must distinguish between the modifica-
tions to Spanish made by the first-generation Africans, the bozales, and their
descendants born on the island: ‘the bozal black spoke Spanish in a way so
distinct from that of his children that there is not a Cuban ear that would
confuse the two’.17
He cites two differences: bozal speakers, he says, tend to
confuse the vowels u and o; criollos, the descendants of the bozales, he says,
replace l with i in articles and at the end of words. He further notes that some
of the traits found in the mouths of black characters in older plays are present
in the speech of bozales, such as the word enapué (< y después ‘and after-
wards’), the use of f- for h-, the loss of -s, and the confusion of l and r.
Bachiller y Morales includes an excerpt of a criollo text and one of an
africano text, which I reproduce here, with a rendering in standard Spanish
along with the English translation.
17
The original is: ‘El negro bozal hablaba el castellano de un modo tan distinto al que sus hijos
usaban, que no hay oido cubano que pudiese confundirlos.’
4.4 Comparison of Afro-Cuban Spanish features 89
(4.1) Criollo (Cuban Spanish as spoken by descendants of African parents)
Venga uté á tomar seivesa, y búquese un compañero
Venga Usted a tomar cerveza, y búsquese un compañero
Que hoy se me sobra ei dinero, en medio de la grandesa.
Que hoy se me sobra el dinero, en medio de la grandeza.
Dió mirando mi probesa, me ha dado una loterı́a
Dios, mirando mi pobreza, me ha dado un premio en la loterı́a.
Y en mi radiante alegrı́a, me ha convertido en poeta;
Y en mi radiante alegrı́a, me he convertido en poeta;
Y aquı́ está mi papeleta, que no he cobrao entuavı́a.
Y aquı́ está mi billete/boleto, que no he cobrado todavı́a.
‘Come have some beer and find yourself a companion, because today I have more than
enough money in the midst of grandeur. God, looking upon my poverty, gave me a
prize in the lottery and in my radiant joy He has made me a poet. And here is my ticket
that I have yet to cash in.’
(4.2) Cuban Spanish as spoken by bozales
Ah! Si oté no lo cubrá, si oté tovı́a no fué
Ah! Si Usted no lo cobra, si Usted todavı́a no ha ido (a cobrarlo)
¿Pa que buca que bebe? ¿Con qué oté lo va pagá?
¿Para qué busca qué beber? ¿Con qué Usted lo va a pagar?
Cuando oté lo cubra, anjá, antonsi ma qui ti muere
Cuando Usted lo cobre, bueno, entonces mas que te mueres
Bebé oté como dan gana y durmı́ oté una semana
Beba Usted como le dé la gana y duerma Usted una semana
Ma que lan tempo si piere.
Más que el tiempo se pierde.
‘Ah! If you don’t cash it in, if you haven’t yet gone, why are you looking for
something to drink? How are you going to pay for it? When you cash it in, well then
more than dying you can drink as you like and sleep a week, more than time gets lost.’
With the exception of the sound changes Bachiller y Morales mentioned, the
language sample of the criollo in (4.1) is the same as standard Spanish. The
sample of the bozales in (4.2) also contains the same phonological character-
istics alluded to by the author, and morphosyntactically exhibits three clear
cases of restructuring: the lack of the required subjunctive form in the
imperative (in [4.3a] and [4.5a]) and the use of a non-standard form in an
idiomatic expression (in [4.4a]). The corresponding native Spanish equivalents
for each are shown in (4.3b), (4.4b), and (4.5b). In all cases, a less frequently
used form (the formal imperative and the subjunctive form) is replaced by a
more commonly used one (the infinitival form or the 3pl form).18
18
In the case of the forms of ‘sleep’, the imperative and subjunctive tokens in CREA are:
duerma ‘sleep-1mper.sg.formal; sleep-pres.subj.3sg’ 248, duermas ‘sleep-pres.
90 Bozal Spanish of Cuba
(4.3a) bebé oté (< beber Usted)
drink- inf 2sg.formal
‘Drink you!’
(4.3b) Beba Usted
drink-imp 2sg.formal
(4.4a) como dan gana
as give-3pl desire
(4.4b) como le dé la gana
as 2sg.formal.dat give.pres.sub the desire
(4.5a) y durmı́ oté una semana
and sleep-inf 2sg.formal a week
‘and sleep a week’
(4.5b) y duerma Usted una semana
and sleep-imp.formal.sg 2sg.formal a week
Towards the end of this article, Bachiller y Morales adds an important
comment regarding the nature of these passages: ‘However, it must be con-
fessed that a big part of their alterations [those of the criollos and bozales] are
initiated by the majority of the people of the country, especially those from
the countryside. The Andalusians were the most numerous of the settlers,
followed by the [Canary] Islanders, the Catalans, and other poorly spoken
people who left traces that are in the process of disappearing, although not as
quickly as one would hope in the more neglected classes’ (1977:109) (my
translation). He finishes the article by giving other examples of modified
Spanish, a literary example of the speech of a typical Cuban street vendor and
an excerpt of Papiamentu.
There are several commonalities in the respective descriptions given by
Pichardo and Bachiller y Morales about the speech of the Africans and their
descendants in Cuba. First, both mention the difference in speech between
bozales and criollos. Second, either by giving examples or making explicit
statements, both authors identify similar pronunciation traits, as well as the
deletion or levelling of conjugation and agreement affixation. Third, both
scholars imply or explicitly state that the varieties spoken by bozales and
subj.2sg’ 99, duerman ‘sleep-pres.subj.3pl’ 74, durmamos ‘sleep-pres.subj.1pl’
12, durmáis ‘sleep-pres.subj.2pl’ 3. The form duerme, 3sg present tense as well as 2sg
imperative, has 1,579 tokens. By contrast, the infinitival form dormir has 8,343 tokens. The
corresponding forms of beber are largely analogous in that the infinitival form has many
more tokens than all subjunctive and imperative ones taken together. In CREA we find: beba
‘drink-imper.sg.formal; drink-pres.subj.3sg’ 221, bebas ‘drink-pres.subj.2sg’
46, beban ‘drink-pres.subj.3pl’ 46, bebamos ‘drink-pres.subj.1pl’ 28, bebáis ‘drink-
pres.subj.2pl’ 4, bebe ‘drink-pres.ind.3sg; drink-imper.sg.formal’ 1,385, beber
‘drink’-inf’ 4,216 tokens. As for the forms dé and dan, in CREA, their respective token
frequency is 5,310 and 14,683, the latter almost three times more frequent than the former.
4.4 Comparison of Afro-Cuban Spanish features 91
criollos were intelligible to anyone who was familiar with Cuban Spanish.
Furthermore, it is said that all Africans and Afro-Cubans shared many of their
traits with the less-educated white population of the island. Finally, both
Pichardo and Bachiller y Morales were familiar with creole languages.
Pichardo knew of the French-based creole in Saint Domingue (today’s Haiti),
and Bachiller y Morales was well aware of Papiamentu, including numerous
examples of the language which he mentions in his correspondence with
Schuchardt: ‘However, if he [Schuchardt] wishes to know to what point the
lovely language transplanted in America [Spanish] can be disfigured, he
should direct his attention to the dialect that has developed in Curaçao, with
the name of Papiamentu’ (my translation). Thus, these scholars were in a
position to compare Afro-Cuban Spanish to Papiamentu or to Haitian French
Creole. The conclusion of such a comparison was that Afro-Cuban Spanish
varieties were less ‘disfigured’ than, for example, Papiamentu. It is also
interesting to note than some of the traits mentioned by Bachiller y Morales,
i.e., the confusion of u and o and the vocalization of lateral l to i, could be traits
influenced by Papiamentu, which has Portuguese-based lexical items (e.g.,
Papiamentu mustra ‘to show’ vs Portuguese [muš-trar] vs Spanish [mos-trar]).
In the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, the traits discussed by these
nineteenth-century scholars have been understood in two opposing ways: one
group takes the traits to represent vestiges of a previously spoken Spanish-
based creole – possibly a very old one – while the other takes them to be
instances of untutored second language acquisition. There are, however, other
positions between these two sides. Perl (1987:4) asserts that ‘stabilization of
bozal speech (i.e., habla bozal) took place, in my opinion, in the nineteenth
century and no further development of an earlier language variety is to be
assumed’ (my translation). Perl is joined by Lipski (1998:317) who, quoting
Pérez de la Riva (1978), states that we do not know anything about the reality
of plantation slavery in Cuba. He continues: ‘I agree then with Perl that the
bozal language could have become a creole in very special circumstances. As
Pérez de la Riva points out to us, we are completely unknowledgeable about
the history of the most isolated slaves, because of which we cannot rule out
the option of a creole’ (my translation).
For my part, I agree that there were varieties of African Spanish in
nineteenth-century Cuba. The question is whether there was a creole lan-
guage that formed in Cuba itself, not directly derivable from Papiamentu.
I acknowledge that this possibility cannot be ruled out a priori. We know
from the 1774 census, for example, that some sugar refineries had as many as
200 slaves (Masó 1976:112). Thus, there were conditions, albeit for at most
sixty to seventy years, for a pidgin to have formed and creolized. However,
the probability of that is small. On the other hand, we have the observations
from de la Luz, which I take to be the most definitive statement so far on the
92 Bozal Spanish of Cuba
linguistic situation in Cuba in the first half of the nineteenth century. Based on
his comments to Lieber and on the catequismo, I assume that de la Luz had
detailed knowledge of plantation life, for instance, regarding modes of pun-
ishment on plantations (see the discussion above of tabla and boca abajo in
de la Luz’s commentary of the catequismo). From his commentary, it can also
be assumed that a creole most likely did not exist. We must recall that de la
Luz was familiar with creole languages, although I do acknowledge that it is
impossible to assume that de la Luz had detailed knowledge of even the most
isolated plantations.
Certain of de la Luz’s comments speak directly to the differences in the
Spanish of the bozales themselves, depending where they originally were
from. He remarks that ‘we whites understand some blacks more easily than
we do other blacks, [just as we understand] people coming from a certain
country better than we do people from another [country]. The Congos, for
example, make themselves understood and pronounce with more clarity than
do the Carabalı́es.’ De la Luz addresses, as well, differences in speech
between urban and rural bozales: ‘However, there are some uniform ways of
corrupting it [Spanish], and this is natural, among all of them, particularly in
the countryside, not only by altering the pronunciation of certain words
uniformly, but also by giving them sometimes a different meaning, and other
times [by giving them] a meaning analogous to the genuine one. For example,
it is rather common for them to say dos viages “two trips” instead of dos veces
“two times”.’ As alluded to above, such particularities would have been
passed on from one generation to another, especially in rural areas, thus
becoming part of the linguistic repertoire of Cuban-born blacks.
In this quote by de la Luz, he notes that, despite the individual differences
between speakers of African descent, depending on where they work, their
origin in Africa, and so on, there were some ways of restructuring the Spanish
language that were generally used by all bozales, i.e., the items recorded in
the catequismo. These, I suggest, would constitute part of the Afro-Cuban
variety of Spanish spoken in Cuba. The items listed by de la Luz can be
classified according to the type of restructuring, involving agreement, non-
distinction of word classes, re-analysis of words, non-use of function words,
and repetition, given in (4.6)–(4.10).
(4.6) Agreement (noun–adjective, noun–determiner, or subject–verb)
a. Lack of subject–verb agreement: yo tiene dinero [lit. I has-3sg.
pres.indic money] instead of yo tengo dinero [lit. I have-1sg.
pres.indic money] ‘I have money’.
b. Preference of 3sg form over other forms: yo quiere compra [lit. I
want-3sg.pres.indic buy-3sg.pres.indic] instead ofyo quiero
comprar [lit. I want-1sg.pres.indic buy-inf] ‘I want to buy’.
4.4 Comparison of Afro-Cuban Spanish features 93
c. Lack of noun–adjective agreement: mismo muger [lit. same-masc
woman] instead of misma muger [lit. same-fem woman] ‘same
woman’.
d. Use of son ‘they are’ as a singular: son verdad instead of es verdad
‘it is true’.
(4.7) Non-distinction of case or word category
a. Non-distinction of adjectives and nouns: no tiene enfermo [lit. s/he
neg has sick] instead of no tiene enfermedad [lit. s/he neg has
sickness] ‘s/he has no sickness’.
b. Non-distinction of adjectives and adverbs hizo malo ‘s/he did bad’
instead of hizo mal ‘s/he did badly’.
c. Non-distinction of subject and object pronouns: yo ‘I’ is found in
accusative instead of me ‘me’ or mi ‘my, me [after prepositions]’.
(4.8) Re-analysis of certain words
a. Use of verdad to refer to something genuine, not bogus.
b. Use of NP negator/negative pronoun ninguno ‘no, no one’ instead of
the simple negator no ‘no’ or nada ‘nothing’, as in puede la yegua ir
al cielo? Ninguno instead of puede la yegua ir al cielo? No ‘Can the
mare go to heaven? No’ or él no entiende ninguno instead or él no
entiende nada [lit. he neg understands nothing] ‘he does not
understand anything’.
(4.9) Non-use of function words
a. Prepositions: no está barriga de su madre instead of no está en la
barriga de su madre s/he is not in his/her mother’s womb’;
b. Determiners: si ustedes miran huevo instead of si ustedes miran el/
un huevo ‘if you look at the/an egg’;
c. Conjunctions: hombre va a luchar, él no tiene fuerzas, él se cae
instead of si un hombre no tiene fuerza y va a luchar, se cae ‘if a man
has no strength and goes to fight, he falls’.
(4.10) Repetition/redundancy
a. Repetition of the negative marker sentence-finally: no va á juntar no
[lit. neg go-3sg.pres.indic comp gather-inf neg] instead of
no va á juntar ‘s/he is not going to gather’.
The categories in (4.6)–(4.8) involve the notions of salience or defaults or
both. We know from Bybee (1985:71), as well as from the discussion
regarding Table 1.4 in chapter 1, that in spoken Spanish the most frequently
used verbal forms are 3sg, 1sg, and 3pl in that order. This applies to the
Spanish of the nineteenth century, as well. Thus, it is not surprising to find
that the 3sg form is the preferred form in (4.6a) and (4.6b), as the 3sg form is
used roughly twice as frequently as either of the other forms. Regarding the
preference in (4.6c) of the masculine over the feminine grammatical gender,
94 Bozal Spanish of Cuba
Table. Frequency of yo, me, mi in twentieth-century oral and written texts
yo me mi Total
Oral 43215 (41%) 45791 (43%) 17572 (16%) 106578
Written 109221(20%) 288876 (52%) 156882 (28%) 554979
Total 152436 (23%) 334667 (51%) 174454 (26%) 661557
Chi-square ¼ 7879.57, df 2, p < 0.001.
in Spanish the former is uncontroversially accepted as the default form. As for
the use of son ‘are.3pl’ instead of es ‘is’ or soy ‘I am’ in (4.6d), one would
expect that es would be the default based on the frequency argument.
However, if we assume, uncontroversially, that es was realized largely as [eh]
or [e] by Spanish-speaking settlers in Cuba (i.e., largely Andalusians and
Canary Islanders), then we are dealing with a shorter, less perceptible form
([eh] or [e]) arguably in competition in the feature pool with the perceptually
more salient form son. In this case frequency was overridden by perceptual
salience.19
Thus, even though es ([eh] or [e]) may have been used much more
frequently than son, son would be more easily perceived.
Regarding the examples in (4.7), the fact that case or lexical category
becomes confused in bozal Spanish is not surprising if we appeal to language
processing and production. For example, the preference of enfermo ‘sick’ in
(4.7a) as the default form for ‘sick’ as well as ‘sickness’ may be as simple as
this: given that enfermo is shorter than enfermedad ‘sickness’, it is easier to
produce and conveys essentially the same information. Apart from being
longer, the form enfermedad ends in a CVC structure, which is not as easy to
produce as the CV ending of enfermo. This argument would also account for
why malo would be preferred to mal in (4.7b). Neither of these arguments,
however, is applicable to the preference of me ‘me’ or mı́ ‘me’ over yo ‘I’ to
express 1sg of any case in (4.7c) since the syllable structure of all of these
forms is CV. In this case, I would argue that it is a matter of frequency. In
Alameda and Cuetos (1995), we find that the relative frequency of the pro-
nouns me (8,648 tokens, 28 per cent) and mı́ (940 tokens, 7 per cent) com-
bined is far greater than that of yo (3,697 tokens, 28 per cent).20
Thus, on
19
In the Portuguese-based creoles, the 3sg present copula é is not often found (e.g., notably in
Palenquero (Schwegler 1998:263) and Daman Creole Portuguese, due to de-creolization
[Clements and Koontz-Garboden 2002]). However, son is found in Makanese Creole
Portuguese, and reflexes of Portuguese tem ‘s/he has’ or ter ‘have-inf’ are found in Indo-
Portuguese creoles other than Daman CP.
20
For the frequency count, Alameda and Cuetos (1995) took text from 164 novels (50 per cent),
press stories (25 per cent), essays (15 per cent) and science/technology articles (10 per cent).
Note that the data from CREA reveal that, of all the first-person singular pronouns, me is the
most frequently found, followed by yo and then mi. Combined, me and mi count for
77 per cent of the occurrences:
4.4 Comparison of Afro-Cuban Spanish features 95
grounds of frequency, if both forms are present in the speech of this type (i.e.
speech reflecting untutored second language learning), we would expect me to
be selected over yo. However, we would not predict that both forms would be
found in such speech given that me is a clitic and, as an unstressed particle,
would be less likely to be perceived than yo.21
With respect to the re-analysis of certain words in (4.8), this is common
in naturalistic second language acquisition and not at all surprising to find.22
The omission of function words in (4.9) is also not surprising to find in bozal
Spanish if we consider the notion of logical bootstrapping discussed in sec-
tion 1.3 of chapter 1. First, before first or second language learners can relate
lexical items with functional markers, they have first to have learned such
items to be able to relate them to one another in a grammatical construction
such as a sentence (see Bates and Goodman 1999:52; Zobl 1982). Second,
such functional markers are often not necessary as the information is
recoverable from the context.
Finally, the repetition of the negative particle mentioned in (4.10), also
found in the Portuguese-based creoles formed in Africa (see Parkvall
2000:60–62), is a trait in bozal Spanish undoubtedly attributable to African
language substrate influence. Thus, all the traits commented on by de la Luz
can be accounted for by appealing to the notions of production, processing,
and frequency of occurrence of the forms in question, or of substrate influence
in the case of double negation.
If we compare the traits commented on by de la Luz to those traits found
and discussed by scholars dealing with bozal Spanish, we find that the former
largely overlap with the latter as compiled by Lipski (1994:113–117) from the
various scholars who have written on the issue and which I list below in
(4.11)–(4.15), following the above classification as a guideline.23
(4.11) Agreement (noun–adjective, noun–determiner, or subject–verb)
a. Lack of gender and number agreement in nouns and adjectives
b. Infinitives where conjugated verb forms would be expected (para tú
hacer eso ‘for you to do that’)
21
This is apparent in other varieties of naturalistic second language acquisition. For example,
Clements (2003a) documents an immigrant learner of Spanish who does not incorporate any
of the clitic pronouns in her variety of Spanish, but does have the stressed pronouns such as yo
‘I’, tú ‘you-sg’, él ‘he’, ella ‘she’, etc. See chapter 6 for a discussion of this.
22
I would expect, in a competition between nada (realized as [ná-d̄a] or [na:]) and ninguno, that
the former would be preferred based on frequency of occurrence (2,097 and 125 respectively,
according to Alameda and Cuetos 1995). However, based on perceptual salience, [nig-gu-no]
could be considered more salient than [na:].
23
Ortiz López (1998:71–117) discusses an extensive list of traits, the most important of which
are included in Lipski’s (1994) list as well.
96 Bozal Spanish of Cuba
(4.12) Re-analysis of certain words
a. Use of tener ‘have’ as a presentational verb instead of haber
b. Use of the all-purpose preposition na
c. Use of vos ‘you’
(4.13) Non-use of function words
a. Loss of common prepositions
b. Occasional elimination of the copula
c. Loss of articles
d. Lack of syntactic complementizers such as que ‘that’
(4.14) Restructuring involving word order
a. Non-inverted questions ¿qué tú quieres? [lit. what you.sg want-2sg
‘what do you want?’
b. Post-posed demonstratives
c. Pre-posing más ‘more’, as in más nada [lit. more nothing] for
‘nothing more’
(4.15) Redundancy
a. Redundant use of subject pronouns (Standard Spanish is a pro-drop
language)
We find that Lipski’s (1994) list lacks two crucial bozal Spanish traits: the
tense–aspect-like particles, shown in (4.16) and discussed by Perl (1982:428),
Ortiz López (1998:83–88), and Lipski (2000), and the repetition, sentence-
finally, of the negative particle, noted by Schwegler (1998:235) and Ortiz
López (1998:113–115) among others, and shown in (4.17).
(4.16) TMA-like tense–aspect markers ya ‘past’, tá ‘present’, and vá ‘future’
(4.17) Double negation with a sentence-final negator: yo no hablo ingles no [lit. I
neg talk-1sg.pres English neg] ‘I don’t speak English.’
Since the discussion of the traits presented in (4.6)–(4.10) covers those
included in (4.11)–(4.15), I will not discuss them in detail here. (For a
discussion of the individual traits, see Lipski 1994:113–117 and Ortiz López
1998:71–117.) I would, however, like to add a general comment. It turns out
that such traits are found to be very common in naturalistically learned
second language acquisition. As mentioned in chapter 1, Klein and Perdue
(1992:315) find a basic variety in naturally learned second language acqui-
sition in which the development for all of their learners from various lan-
guage backgrounds, though not identical, is remarkably similar. These
general traits correspond largely to those just identified here for bozal
Spanish. Moreover, in a detailed study of the Spanish variety of a Chinese
immigrant residing in Spain, Clements (2003a, 2003b, 2005, and chapter 6 of
this volume) finds evidence that suggests the presence of incipient tense–
aspect markers. Thus, we see that in large part these second language
4.4 Comparison of Afro-Cuban Spanish features 97
varieties possess the same features as those found in bozal Spanish. We find
this near overlap between the traits in naturalistic L2 acquisition and in bozal
Spanish expected given the similarities in the socio-historical backgrounds
of the nineteenth-century bozales and some immigrant communities in
Europe today.24
However, the particle ta warrants particular attention. Perl (1987) gives
examples taken from Cabrera (1954) which cannot be reductions of está.
Ortiz López (1998:83–88, 140) and Lipski (2000) also provide numerous
examples, two of which I show in (4.18) and (4.19), from Ortiz López
(1998:85) and Lipski (2000) respectively, with additional glosses.
(4.18) En ese tiempo yo bailaba mucho . . .
in that time I dance-past.imper a lot
Ta bailando tre(s) dı́a(s) seguido.
TMA dancing three days in.a.row
‘At that time, I used to dance a lot. I danced three days in a row.’
(4.19) Horita ta benı́ pa cá.
now TMA come dir here
‘Now she’s coming here.’
It is unlikely that Spanish estaba bailando [eh-ta-ba-baj-lag-do] or está
viniendo [eh-ta-ba-bi-nieņ-do]) would reduce to ta bailando or ta benı́. In the
first case, the maximally reduced form of estaba would arguably be [ta-ba],
although it could also be argued that the intervocalic [b] could have disap-
peared, yielding [ta:] and then [ta]. In the second case, the vowels of the verb
roots are different but, more importantly, the stress assignment of the two
forms is different.
According to Lipski (2000), ta in bozal Spanish has two possible sources.
Before discussing these, I provide some external ecology to contextualize the
situation. In his correspondence to Lieber, de la Luz mentions that slaves
coming to Cuba often knew expressions from English, which, he said, they
must have learned on their way to Cuba. Lipski (2000:438) notes that in the
nineteenth century ‘[s]laves in colonial Cuba were drawn from all parts of
Africa as well as from other Caribbean territories.’ Many of those coming
from Africa, he adds, came from well-defined geographical areas and ethnic
groups (e.g., those of the Lucumı́, Carabalı́, Congo, Gangá, Mina, Bibı́, etc.).
Lipski also (ibid.:442) notes that of the thousands of sugarcane cutters
brought from other Caribbean islands to Cuba in the nineteenth century,
there were well-documented pockets of Papiamentu speakers coming from
Curaçao, Bonaire, and/or Aruba. One of the sources, then, for bozal Spanish
ta is arguably Papiamentu. Indeed, the present marker in Papiamentu is ta, as
shown in the examples in (4.20), taken from Maurer (1998:162).
24
See the discussion of va and ya in Lipski 2000.
98 Bozal Spanish of Cuba
(4.20a) Awor mi ta lesa.
now I pres read
‘I am reading now.’
(4.20b) Mi ta lesa tur dia.
I pres read all day
‘I read every day.’
The other, Lipski argues, is from slaves with Yoruba or another related
language as their native language. The particle (eh)ta, then, in the speech of
these untutored Spanish learners, was re-analysed as ta to mark the present,
based on the pattern in Yoruba shown in (4.21), taken from Lipski
(2000:443).
(4.21) mo n jeun.
I am eating.
‘I {am eating/eat}.’
Thus, the particle ta in bozal Spanish can be accounted for without appealing
to creolization or the existence of a stable pidgin, which the demographic
statistics have shown to be unlikely. In a similar way, Lipski accounts for the
particles ya (< Spanish ya ‘already’) and va (< Spanish ‘s/he is going’) in
bozal Spanish by appealing to re-analysis during L2 acquisition. Thus,
the particles found in bozal Spanish can be reasonably accounted for by
phenomena other than the presence of a prior creole language. In his detailed
survey of real-time speech sampling from Afro-Cubans, Ortiz López
(1998:116) comes to the same conclusion.
Finally, double negation of the type illustrated in (4.17) is a common
feature in the relevant African languages represented in Cuba during the
nineteenth century, as Schwegler (1996a) has shown, and it is common in
various varieties of Portuguese and Spanish that have had significant
contact with African language speakers, such as Brazilian Portuguese and
Palenquero, a Portuguese- and Spanish-based creole spoken in Colombia.
Double negation in Cuban bozal Spanish is most easily and uncontroversially
accounted for by the substrate influence of the relevant African languages
(e.g., Kikongo, Kimbundu; see Schwegler 1998:234–237). For example,
Lorenzino (1998:182–183) notes that Kimbundu exhibits a double negation of
the same type as found in Angolar and São Tomé Creole Portuguese, as well
as Brazilian Portuguese, and bozal and Dominican Spanish. An example is
given in (4.22).
(4.22) Eme (ki) ngi mutu ami
I neg a person neg
Thus, processing and production strategies, frequency, and African and creole
language substrate influence together may reasonably account for all the traits
4.4 Comparison of Afro-Cuban Spanish features 99
found in bozal Spanish without having to posit the existence of a stable pidgin
or a creole in Cuba.
4.5 Concluding remarks
In this chapter, I have introduced into the discussion of the origins of Cuban
bozal Spanish the contribution made by a recently discovered 1835 corres-
pondence exchange between two scholars and linguists, one from Cuba, José
de la Luz Caballero, the other from the United States, Francis Lieber. To
understand better the context of the letter exchange, I briefly examined the
external ecology of Cuba, specifically, the Spanish crown’s influence on trade
in Cuba, and surveyed some of the social and labour history of the island. I
found that the circumstances for the emergence of a Spanish-based pidgin in
Cuba started around 1770, thirty years before de la Luz’s birth. I maintain that
if de la Luz, who knew the linguistic situation of Cuba well – and was well
versed on the development and structure of creole languages in neighbouring
Haiti and Jamaica – knew of no evidence of a pidgin or creole on the island,
then such a linguistic system likely did not develop or exist there.
De la Luz’s comments on the Spanish varieties of Cuba are written in two
documents. One is a commentary on a catechism first published in 1796 with
the goal of aiding chaplains in their effort to impart religious doctrine to
recently arrived Africans. This commentary is useful as a linguistic document
because in it de la Luz comments on expressions, idioms, structures, and
usages we might otherwise have considered to be found only among the black
population. De la Luz’s commentary reveals to us that this is not the case, that
many, perhaps most, of the particularities of black speech were shared by
other non-black segments of the Cuban population.
The second document is a response to a query by Francis Lieber as to the
existence of a Spanish-based creole on Cuba. From the precise nature of
Lieber’s questions, as well as the detailed commentary provided by de la Luz,
we recognize that both men were sophisticated linguists who were know-
ledgeable about language structure and language change. Indeed, most of
Francis Lieber’s linguistic interests involved language contact phenomena.
Both Lieber and de la Luz were well travelled polyglots, and knew some of
the most impressive minds of that day in the field of European linguistics and
letters, such as the von Humboldt brothers and Sir Walter Scott, among
others. Their exchange offers us a rare view of an erudite exchange on Cuban
Spanish in 1835, fourteen years before de la Luz’s contemporary, Esteban
Pichardo, published his dictionary on Cuban Spanish in which he also
comments on Cuban Spanish varieties. What is most unique about the Lieber–
de la Luz exchange is the specific nature of the expert questioning by Lieber
regarding the existence of a Cuban Spanish-based creole and the denial of its
100 Bozal Spanish of Cuba
existence by a Cuban linguist who had access to an extensive variety of
information sources, including all his great uncle’s writings on the topic.
(His great uncle, Father José Agustı́n Caballero, apart from being an educator
at the renowned San Carlos Seminary in Havana, was considered an
important figure in the intellectual history of the turn of the nineteenth
century (Masó 1976:137–150).)
Given the detail of de la Luz’s responses and commentary and his cre-
dentials and those of his correspondent Francis Lieber, I believe that these
documents constitute the most definitive evidence to date – albeit not con-
clusive – that there never existed a Spanish-lexified stable pidgin or creole at
any time in the colonial history of Cuba or at any point in Cuba as an
independent state.
This information on the external ecology of Cuba is supported by
the linguistic facts available on bozal Spanish that have been attributed to the
existence of a stable pidgin or a creole. I have argued that the sources of the
bozal Spanish features are convincingly accounted for by appealing to
strategies in language processing and production, and to the influence of
African languages (e.g., Yoruba, Kikongo, Kimbundu, etc.), and Papiamentu,
the Portuguese- and Spanish-based creole language taken by slaves from
Curaçao to Cuba during the first half of the nineteenth century. The discovery
of the Lieber–de la Luz exchange on bozal Spanish also opens new avenues
for research as the manuscript is studied in more detail by other scholars in
the field and more is discovered about these relatively unknown nineteenth-
century linguists.
4.5 Concluding remarks 101
5 Chinese Coolie Spanish in
nineteenth-century Cuba
5.1 Introduction
During the first half of the nineteenth century, the African slave trade in Cuba
became illegal and the laws prohibiting it were increasingly enforced, a topic
touched upon in chapter 4. Alarmed by the slave revolts of the 1790s in Haiti,
movements began in Cuba with the purpose of settling whites on farms and in
villages in Cuba not only to infuse the labour force with new manpower, but
also in part to counterbalance the large black population and thereby diminish
the possibility of revolt. As we saw in chapter 4, the black population in Cuba
began to outnumber the whites around 1791 and according to Kiple (1976)
this situation lasted up until 1846. Corbitt (1971:2) notes that in 1841 in Cuba
there were 589,333 blacks (58 per cent) (436,495 slaves and 152,838 free
coloureds) and 418,211 whites (42 per cent).1
This situation made Cuban
plantation-owners uncomfortable and as a consequence incentives were
offered to planters to hire workers from Spain, but with little success. The
Spanish government then agreed to a plan drawn up by the Junta de Fomento
(Promotion Committee) to introduce Chinese coolies (indentured labourers)
into Cuba, following an idea the British had used in their colonies. From 3
June 1847 – the arrival date of the first Chinese coolies from China –
onwards, nearly 500,000 of them came to the island (Corbitt 1971:6). In this
chapter, I discuss some details of the ecology of the Chinese in Cuba between
1847 and the late twentieth century, focusing on the relations among
the Chinese, the Africans, and the Afro-Cubans, and the development of the
Chinese variety of Spanish. I then examine the traits found in some of the
sources of Chinese Spanish. The data suggest that the Spanish variety spoken
by the Chinese in Cuba is similar to varieties of Chinese Immigrant Spanish,
to be taken up in chapter 6. That is, it is more akin to a naturalistically learned
1
One of Corbitt’s statistics differs minimally from Kiple’s: the former cites the number of
whites at 418,211, whereas the latter uses an adjusted figure of 418,291. I take Kiple’s figure to
be the more accurate one.
102
L2 Spanish variety, highly comparable to the ‘basic variety’ mentioned in
sections 1.2, 1.3, 3.2, and 4.4, than to a pidgin proper.2
5.2 External ecology of the Chinese in Cuba
5.2.1 The period of Chinese coolie indentured labour (1847–1877)
Until 1762, when the English occupied Havana for ten months, the Spanish
crown had a vise-like grip on trade with its colonies, including slave trade in
Cuba. In the 1760s, trade barriers began to break down and this allowed an
influx of slave labour, followed by rapid development in Cuban agriculture,
which in turn led to the need for additional slave labour (see chapter 4 for
more details). But, just at the moment that slave labour became more
accessible to Cuban land-owners, between the 1760s and 1791, the slave
revolts began in Haiti (then Saint Domingue). Caught between the need for
labour and the fear of their African slaves revolting, Cuban plantation-owners
turned to the idea of trying to attract white labour. Corbitt (1971:1–4) reports
on the less than successful attempts by the Junta de Población Blanca
(Committee of the White Population) to lure white labour to Cuba while slave
labour continued to be exploited.
In 1821, the African slave trade was curtailed by a treaty signed by Spain
and Britain to outlaw it by 1820. However, enforcement of the treaty was
weak to non-existent and Cuban plantation-owners were still able to import
illegal slave labour, though they were ever wary of the possibility of upris-
ings. In 1835, Britain obtained another treaty to enforce the first one, which
obliged the Cuban plantation-owners to look elsewhere for their labour needs.
In 1842, some high-profile Cuban businessmen and planters founded the
Junta de Fomento which took over some of the duties and budget of the Junta
de Población Blanca. This committee hatched the idea of offering prizes to
the planters who attracted the most white settlers from among the Catalans,
Canary Islanders, and Galicians in Spain (Corbitt 1971:3), but the experiment
attracted only around 1,000 settlers in two years. The Junta de Fomento
became increasingly desperate to find labour, and they gathered the idea of
importing labourers from China using an English firm, Zulueta and Company,
which had been shipping in Chinese indentured labour for England.
The members of the Junta de Fomento saw several apparent advantages to
this proposal. First, the Chinese would be considered white so that the
stipulation that white labour be sought would be fulfilled. Second, from the
2
By ‘pidgin proper’, I mean a language variety spoken by members of two or more language
communities that has developed conventionalized structures and has to be learnt (see Bakker
1995: 26).
5.2 External ecology of the Chinese in Cuba 103
experience of the Spaniards in the Philippines, the Chinese were viewed as
docile and hard-working, and would thus be ideal labourers.3
Third, it was
thought that the supply of Chinese labourers, referred to as culı́es or coolies,
would be plentiful.4
The reaction of the Spanish government to the plan,
recorded in a royal order of 3 July 1847, was favourable. Interestingly,
according to Corbitt (1971:5–6), it was roughly one month earlier (3 and
12 June 1847) that two ships carrying the first Chinese immigrants arrived in
Havana. Of the 612 men who had begun the journey, 515 were able to work
upon arrival; some had died during the voyage or just after arrival in Cuba,
while others were rejected for being too old, sickly, or thin. Thus began the
exploitation of Chinese coolie labour in Cuba, which would last until 1877.
After the first two shipments of coolies to Cuba, problems arose between
China and Britain regarding the trafficking of coolies to the Caribbean, and so
the importation into Cuba was temporarily suspended (Jiménez Pastrana
1963:37–38). On 5 August 1851, the Junta de Fomento agreed to a plan to
import more Chinese (Corbitt 1971:14–15), and permission was granted to
two firms to import 3,000 coolies over a period of two years. Around 1855,
the practice of using Chinese labourers on the plantations was evaluated by
the planters. Although the experiment received mixed reviews, overall it was
considered a success; the importation of coolies continued, and by the end of
1860 around 49,077 coolies had been taken to Cuba (ibid.:18).
During this time, problems of abuse of the coolies (who were treated little
differently from slaves) and other problems with the importation of Chinese
indentured labour to Cuba prompted riots and protests in Hong Kong and in
Chinese cities such as Amoy (Xiamen, in Fujian province), one of the major
ports used to ship the labourers to Cuba. As a consequence, Britain closed the
port in Hong Kong to the coolie trade and the Chinese imperial authorities
adopted the policy of beheading the recruiting agents. As a result, by 1859
only the Portuguese colony of Macau was used to ship Chinese labourers to
Cuba (Corbitt 1971:19). Virtually all the people taken to Cuba were men from
Canton province who spoke Cantonese.
In 1859–1860, regulations were established to safeguard the Chinese
labourers being shipped to Spanish colonies, and the Spanish government,
which had called a temporary halt to such shipments to the New World,
bestowed its blessing on the resumption of the trade, after which coolie
importations rose sharply (between 1 January and 21 July 1861, for example,
3
The expression manila chino was used by the Spanish colonizers to refer to Chinese indentured
labourers, also in Cuba. See (5.28) for an example of the expression being spoken by a Chinese
soldier fighting for Cuba against the Spanish.
4
According to the OED, the term ‘coolie’ probably derived from Gujarati kuli

, initially the name
of a tribe in Gujarat that migrated to South India. There, the term apparently mixed with Tamil
k
uli ‘hire’ and eventually came to denote hired labourers or burden carriers.
104 Chinese Coolie Spanish in nineteenth-century Cuba
6,223 coolies were taken to Cuba). As mentioned, this practice continued
until 1877. Although the Cuban planters favoured the further importation of
coolies, the Spanish government entered into a treaty with Peking that shut
down the trade and closed a painful chapter in Chinese–Spanish relations
(Corbitt 1971:23).
The year-by-year arrival of coolies in Cuba between 1847 and 1859 is
shown in Table 5.1. Corbitt (1971:52) notes that these figures, while not
complete or necessarily entirely accurate, are the most reliable ones available.
After 1859, he adds, there is no complete information about the number of
coolies taken to Cuba. He states (ibid.:24) that the tabulation of the arrivals
reported in the daily shipping column of the newspaper Diario de la Marina
from 1847 to 1874 gives a total of 114,232. Thus, between 1859 and 1877,
roughly 71,731 coolies were transported to Cuba.
After the importation of coolies was halted in 1877, Chinese immigrants
continued to arrive in Cuba, but under substantially different circumstances
(Corbitt 1971:92). Of those who were in Cuba as coolies, if the available
estimates are reliable, less that 40 per cent lived to complete their eight-year
term of ‘service’ (ibid.:88). Corbitt (ibid.:90) also notes that, for every Chi-
nese man who achieved success in Cuba, there were dozens who either eked
out a bare existence against innumerable odds, or scraped together sufficient
means to buy a return passage to China.
In 1899, when the Spanish were finally defeated and the Cuban flag was
raised over the island, Corbitt (1971:92) estimates that around 15,000 Chinese
remained. According to the census of 1899, the Chinese men were mainly day
labourers (54 per cent), servants (19 per cent), merchants (13 per cent), and
peddlers (3 per cent), with other professions making up the remaining 11 per
cent. In the same census, only twenty Chinese women were listed as having
professions.
Table 5.1. Number of coolies arriving in Cuba from 1847 to 1859
Year No. of ships
Coolies
embarked
Coolies
landed Deaths Death rate
1847 2 612 571 41 6.7
1853 15 5150 4307 843 16.37
1854 4 1750 1711 39 2.23
1855 6 3130 2985 145 4.63
1856 15 6152 4968 1184 19.25
1857 28 10,116 8547 1569 15.51
1858 33 16,414 13,385 3029 18.45
1859 13 6799 6027 772 11.36
Total 116 50,123 42,501 7748 15.2
5.2 External ecology of the Chinese in Cuba 105
Chinese immigration to Cuba during the republic is hard to ascertain
because of what Corbitt (1971:95) calls the ‘hopelessly conflicting statistics
on the subject’. The figures maintained by the Chinese consulate in Havana
reveal that, between 1903 and 1916, 6,258 Chinese arrived in Cuba, and that
between 1917 and 1924 some 16,005 came to the island. Around 1930, the
reports on the number of Chinese in Cuba continue to display a wide range of
estimates, from 30,000 (Chinese consulate) to 150,000, a number reported by
the Cuban newspaper El Mundo. Corbitt (ibid.:105) maintains that even the
estimate of 150,000 was probably too low.
At the beginning of the Second World War, estimates of Chinese in Cuba
range from 18,000 (those registered at the Chinese consulate) to 30,000.
During this time, the Chinese kept to themselves with respect to Cuban
politics, although they were deeply interested in the politics of their homeland
and maintained in Cuba off-shoots of the different Chinese political parties
(see Ramos Hernández, Pedroso Alés, and Cassola Triamma 2000). Corbitt
(1971:113–15) reports that while some Chinese took Cuban nationality to
meet legal requirements, overall they adjusted to citizenship requirements for
Cuban work permits by other means and maintained a strong relationship
with their homeland. Given that most Chinese men had wives back in their
native land, there continued to be few Chinese women in Cuba. For example,
of the 18,484 Chinese registered at the Chinese consulate in 1942, a large
majority was from Canton and only 56 were women.
Chinese continued to come to Cuba throughout the twentieth century, well
after the cessation of the importation of Chinese indentured labour. Today
there are still roughly 400 ‘pure Chinese’ people that speak Cantonese,
and courses in Mandarin are even offered by an organization called Grupo
Promotor Chino (Chinese Promotion Group), which is in charge of
developing activities on Chinese culture in Cuba. A bilingual newspaper is
also maintained. Havana still has a Chinatown – where many Chinese
originally lived – which was built towards the end of the 1890s. Thus, the ties
to China still remain relatively strong.
5.2.2 Relations between the Chinese and Africans in Cuba
The documents consulted by Corbitt (1971) indicate that the relations
between the Chinese and Africans /Afro-Cubans were difficult at best. In
1848, the coffee bean grower Urbano Feijóo de Sotomayor (cited in Corbitt
1971:10) wrote to the Spanish crown, stating: ‘they [the Chinese] are not
inclined to associate with the Negroes, and if all the planters thought as I do
and maintained on their farms a line of separation between the races, I believe
it would be possible to make one race a defence against the other’.
106 Chinese Coolie Spanish in nineteenth-century Cuba
Corbitt (1971:63) notes that:
The treatment accorded the coolies in Cuba was as varied as the characters of the
persons who supervised their work and the conditions under which they lived. Bitter
was the lot of Chinamen supervised for absentee masters by overseers who were often
their intellectual inferiors (scarcely a coolie but could read and write, and as much
could not be said for the overseers) and forced to work alongside Negroes for whom
they had, and have, a supreme contempt. And when through ignorance of the haughty
Chinese character, Negroes were placed in charge of the coolies, the results were
tragic.
Corbitt goes on to mention that the policies, laws, regulations, official reports,
and private accounts of the time serve as testimony that there was a ‘mutual
ignorance’ of language, customs, religion, manners, food, methods of work,
and tools. What is not clear is whether ‘mutual’ refers to the relation between
the planters, owners, and policy-makers on the one hand and the slaves on the
other, or between Africans and Chinese, or both. Needless to say, the policies,
laws, regulations, and official reports were generated by people with direct
input from the plantation-owners, who either were ignorant of or did not
care about the significant differences between the Africans and Chinese. That
the Africans and Chinese did not know anything about each other is not
surprising. However, there is also evidence that members of the two groups
co-existed harmoniously. In the Ten Years’ War and later on in the war for
independence, there are clear examples of Chinese and Afro-Cubans fighting
alongside one another for Cuba (Jiménez Pastrana 1963). These cases not-
withstanding, Corbitt (1971:113) notes that as recently as the Second World
War, the Chinese still maintained contempt for Afro-Cubans.
5.2.3 Chinese and the Spanish language
With regard to the acquisition of Spanish on the part of the Chinese coolies,
Corbitt (1971:11, after Erenchun 1856:778–779) quotes the well-known
scholar Antonio Bachiller y Morales, who wrote in 1856 that:
[h]omicides, rebellions and uprisings were repeated on some plantations, while more
tactful masters obtained better results. A large part of the problems arose from lack of
competent interpreters. At present, although there are still some that doubt the
advantage of this type of immigrant, the early difficulties occur less frequently, a fact
that is due in great part to the coolies’ being directed by men who speak their language.
Nine years after the first Chinese had arrived in Cuba, there was no indication
that they had learned Spanish, nor would it be expected of them, since these
labourers lived and worked together with fellow Cantonese speakers and
likely used their native language almost exclusively.
5.2 External ecology of the Chinese in Cuba 107
In 1874, a recruiting agent named Francisco Abella, who had transported
more than 100,000 Chinese to various countries, including Cuba, wrote about
the recruiting process that, ‘[b]efore loading the transports the Portuguese
authorities would address a group of coolies through an interpreter, who often
knew only one of the eleven dialects spoken in China, asking them if they
were willing to embark’ (cited in Corbitt 1971:41). This system changed,
according to Abella, in that five or six interpreters came to be used by the
recruiters, each speaking a different dialect of Chinese. Although these
statements suggest that a great majority of those Chinese going to Cuba were
speakers of one or more varieties of Chinese, they were largely varieties of
Cantonese.
The varieties of Spanish found in Jiménez Pastrana (1963), taken from
documents that attempted to capture the manner in which the Chinese spoke
Spanish, exhibit characteristics consistent with naturalistic second language
acquisition, with two notable exceptions. One is the use a sentence-final
negator, as in (5.1). Assuming the data accurately reflect the Spanish of
Chinese Cuban soldiers, this feature is most likely due to the influence of
Afro-Cuban Spanish (see Ortiz López 1998; Schwegler 1998; sections 4.2.2
and 4.4 from this book, and examples (4.10) and (4.17) and the accompanying
discussion).
(5.1) ¡No es un chino manila, no!
neg is a Chinese Manila neg
‘I’m not a Chinaman!’
The other feature involves case marking. In the example in (5.2), the logical
subject of a stative predicate is marked as the grammatical object. The
interesting point about these examples is that the only other Iberian language-
based creoles that mark stative-predicate subjects in this manner, though not
all stative predicates, are found in India (the Indo-Portuguese creoles of
Korlai and Daman).5
(5.2a) Pa mi no sentı́ gente pasá.
for me neg heard-1sg.pret people pass.by
‘I didn’t hear the people pass by.’
(5.2b) Pa mi no sabe.
for me neg know-3sg.pres
‘I don’t know.’
5
Although this type of case marking is found in IP creoles, in neither Korlai nor Daman Creole
Portuguese is the subject of sab ‘know’ or sabe ‘know’ marked as the grammatical object. In
KCP, sitı́ (< Ptg. sentir ‘feel’) in its original Portuguese meaning of ‘feel’ takes a dative
subject, as in pari sitin friw [lit. me feeling cold] ‘I’m feeling cold’.
108 Chinese Coolie Spanish in nineteenth-century Cuba
In general, then, it seems that the Chinese learned enough Spanish to fulfil
their needs in the jobs they had. For example, one story tells of a cook who
learns how to speak Spanish, arguably because of his position (Corbitt
1971:77). However, it is also clear from the documents and statistics in
Corbitt (ibid.) that the Chinese, although some fought alongside whites and
Afro-Cubans in two wars in the nineteenth century, generally were not
integrated in Cuban society.
5.3 Structure of Chinese Coolie Spanish in Cuba
In this section, I consider who constituted the probable speakers of Chinese
Coolie Spanish and what their TMA system in Spanish looked like, and
discuss other salient characteristics of their speech. I draw on data found in
Jiménez Pastrana (1963), a small corpus containing approximately 300 words.
5.3.1 The speakers of Chinese Coolie Spanish in Cuba
In section 5.2.1 above, we saw that from 1847 to 1859 the Chinese coolies
who arrived in Cuba embarked from various ports, two of the most prominent
being Amoy (Xiamen) in Fujian province where Min dialects were and are
spoken, and Macau, where Cantonese dialects were and still are found. After
1859, ships carrying coolies to Cuba embarked only from Macau. Records
from that time indicate that coolies speaking various Chinese dialects,
tantamount to different languages in some cases, were recruited for Cuba.
Initially, then, I assume that the Chinese arriving in Cuba were speakers
representing various Min and Cantonese dialects, but that over time the
proportion of Cantonese dialect speakers among those recruited to work in
Cuba increased. This assumption is supported by the fact that most people of
Chinese origin in Cuba today are of Cantonese background.
Almost all of the Chinese arriving in Cuba in the nineteenth century were
literate and used the same writing system (Corbitt 1971:63). Moreover, they all
shared a similar culture, especially as compared to the culture predominant in
Cuba in the middle of the nineteenth century. I assume that speakers of each of
the Min or Cantonese varieties could and would cluster into same-dialect
groups, such that they could maintain their variety of Chinese in Cuba. Thus,
when they were thrown into a quasi-slave situation in Cuba, the bonds between
the different dialect speakers among themselves, and even speakers across
dialects, were beneficial for survival, and I assume that such bonds were cul-
tivated and maintained to the extent that they improved the chances of survival.
As already mentioned, reports indicated that the Chinese and Africans
seldom mixed (Corbitt 1971:63, 78, 113). And although this may have been
generally true, Lipski (1999:217) reports the existence of Chinese–African
5.3 Structure of Chinese Coolie Spanish in Cuba 109
intermarriages and Jiménez Pastrana (1963:69–70) describes African–
Chinese co-operation in the time leading up to the Ten Years’ War. In the war
for Cuban independence, the Chinese also fought alongside Cubans of
African and European descent. In fact, the only example of an Afro-Cuban
linguistic trait in my corpus comes from a Chinese soldier.
To my knowledge, there are two main sources of evidence for Cuban coolie
speech. I have already commented on the sources found in Jiménez Pastrana’s
(1963) history of the Chinese between 1847 and 1930. The other general
source is literary texts in which Chinese speech is portrayed. I prefer to draw
primarily from Jiménez Pastrana (ibid.) because the portrayal of Chinese
speech in the sources he uses seems to me to constitute a serious attempt to
approximate, as closely as possible, the Chinese Spanish of that time.
Although Lipski (1999) calls the variety of Spanish spoken by the Chinese
coolies a pidgin, this depends on the definition of the term pidgin. Lipski’s
definition seems to be closer to that advanced by Hall (1966), according to
which even a highly unstable incipient pidgin constitutes a pidgin proper. If
we define pidgin according to Bakker (1995), as a linguistic system with its
own set conventions and rules which can be spoken to different degrees of
proficiency, there is little socio-historical evidence to support the existence of
a Chinese pidgin Spanish in this sense, especially given that the Chinese had
no apparent motivation to speak anything other than Chinese among them-
selves. The variety found in Jiménez Pastrana (1963), I argue, is closer to a
naturalistically learned L2 variety. This view is also suggested by quotes of
dialogues found in Jiménez Pastrana (1963) between Cuban superiors and
Chinese soldiers in which the Cubans speak colloquial Spanish and the
Chinese their own variety of Spanish. An illustrative exchange is given in
(5.3), a dialogue between a Spanish-speaking captain and an official origin-
ally from Canton, in which the captain speaks standard Spanish and the
official talks in what I consider to be an L2 Spanish variety (ibid.:100). In this
conversation between the captain and Achón, I have added the standard
colloquial Spanish version of Achón’s speech so the reader can appreciate the
difference between the two varieties.
(5.3) Captain: Mira, Achón; a los oficiales les está prohibido usar armas largas.
‘Look, Achon; the officers are prohibited from using long rifles.’
Achón: ¿Qui cosa usa Ficiá? (Standard Sp.: ¿Qué usan los oficiales?)
‘What do officers use?
Captain: Machete y revólver. Es una orden superior . . . .
‘Machete and revolver. It’s an order from above.’
Achón: Londi ta Ginilá Maceo, que yo va pleguntá si son vel esi cosa?
(Standard Sp.: ¿Dónde está General Maceo?, que (yo) voy a
preguntar si {es verdad esa cosa/si son verdad esas cosas})
‘Where is General Maceo? I’m going to ask him if that thing is
true.’
110 Chinese Coolie Spanish in nineteenth-century Cuba
Of note in this exchange is that there is no attempt on the part of the captain to
accommodate his interlocutor linguistically.6
Achon uses 3sg verb forms
(except for son ‘they are’) and no plural marking of the nouns, both of which
are traits also found in Chinese Immigrant Spanish.7
The choice of 3pl son
is interesting because it is also found in Luis’ speech (see chapter 6) as the
default ser copula. Moreover, its Portuguese counterpart sã (Ptg. são ‘they
are’) is the default copula form in Macau Creole Portuguese.
Having discussed the background of the Chinese coolies in Cuba and
considered some of the salient traits of Chinese Coolie Spanish (CCS), let us
now turn to a more systematic examination of its features.
5.3.2 TMA system in Chinese Coolie Spanish
To analyse the verb forms gleaned from Jiménez Pastrana (1963), I categorize
them as types and tokens according to verb-predicate class and verb form, as
well as whether or not the forms were used in a context appropriate to their
tense. Forms were judged to be appropriately used according to the context in
which they appear. That is, present forms were judged to be correct in those
situations in which present events, activities, or states in the text are being
referred to by those being quoted. Present-tense forms were judged to be
incorrect in discourse situations involving past events, activities, or states.
Only tense and grammatical aspect were taken into account for classifying a
verb as correctly or incorrectly used. In other words, correctness of person
and number marking was not considered. The results, shown in Table 5.2,
indicate that the speakers do not exhibit a preponderance of correctly used
verbal forms.
The distribution of the correctly used finite forms is comparable to that
found in CIS: CIS displays 64 per cent correct finite forms, compared to 70
per cent (40/57) of correct finite forms in CCS. However, the distribution of
the non-finite forms in CCS, at 55 per cent (6/11), is significantly higher than
in CIS (16.5 per cent), but the raw numbers are low. Important in this
comparison is that, in terms of the distribution of finite and non-finite forms
correctly and incorrectly used, nineteenth-century CCS is largely comparable
6
In one short story collection (Bueno 1959:66), I have found evidence of Foreigner
Talk: ‘ “¿Capitán, tú estar triste, tú pensar en Cantón . . .” le decı́a Acacio, poniendo los
verbos en infinitivo para que lo entendiera mejor.’ ‘ “Captain, you be sad, you think about
Canton . . .” Acacio was saying to him, putting the verbs in the infinitive so that he would
understand better.’ In this story, the Spanish of the Chinese captain is stereotypically
portrayed in that all verbs are in the infinitive, all instances of r are rendered as l, all
copulas are deleted, etc.
7
Here, Chinese Immigrant Spanish (CIS) refers to the speech of two native Chinese informants
who are immigrants in Spain. The traits of their speech are the topic of chapter 6.
5.3 Structure of Chinese Coolie Spanish in Cuba 111
to CIS in the twenty-first century, which is not surprising given the proposed
‘basic variety’ of Klein and Perdue (1992).
If we compare the distribution of states, durative atelic events, durative
telic events, and punctual events in CCS with those found in CIS, we find
similarities and differences that I think are attributable to the different range
of topics found in the different samplings. The data of the three varieties are
shown in Table 5.4.
The proportion of stative tokens in CCS is comparable to that in CIS. One
CIS informant’s speech, however, that of Luis, is closer to CCS. This may
reflect the nature of the narratives in each case. The speech samples of CCS,
compiled by Jiménez Pastrana (1963) from various sources, are short state-
ments with one or two dialogues. The topic is war: the speakers discuss
moving from one place to another and fighting. Because of this, the narratives
have fewer stative tokens and a relatively high number of durative telic
tokens, due mainly to the presence of many predicates with a goal or an
implied count noun. For instance, viene Oliente [lit. s/he comes Oriente] ‘we
came from Oriente’ has an implied goal (‘here’) and is therefore counted as
durative telic. Luis’ narrative is shorter than that of the other CIS informant,
Jenny, and he discusses mainly how he got to Spain, what his family members
do in Spain, who they associate with, and so forth. Jenny’s narrative is longer,
and she talks about a wider range of topics, including various direct speech
segments. It appears, then, that the distribution of predicate classes shown in
Table 5.4 reflects more about the type of narrative and the range of topics
covered than about the nature of these L2 varieties.
Regarding the presence or absence of individual forms in CCS, the heavy
preponderance of present-tense forms, and particularly 3sg.pres forms, as
Table 5.2. Distribution of correctly and incorrectly used verb tokens
in Chinese Coolie Speech
Form Correct Incorrect Total
Present 38 [70%] (83%) 16 [30%] (73%) 54 [100%] (79%)
Past 2 [67%] (4%) 1 [33%] (5%) 3 [100%] (4%)
Infinitive 6 [55%] (13%) 5 [45%] (23%) 11 [100%] (16%)
Total 46 [100%] (68%) 22 [100%] (32%) 68 [100%] (100%)
Note: v2
¼ 1.04 (df ¼ 2); p < 0.05 if critical value ¼ 5.99. The distribution is not
significant. However this is not because of the distribution per se, but rather because
of the dearth of data. For example, if the numbers are multiplied by ten while
maintaining the same proportions, the distribution becomes significant. Totals may
not reach 100 because of rounding.
Source: Jiménez Pastrana 1963.
112 Chinese Coolie Spanish in nineteenth-century Cuba
Table
5.3.
Predicate
forms
in
Chinese
Coolie
Spanish
Static
situations
Dynamic
situations
States
Atelic
situations
Telic
situations
Statives
Durative
Durative
Punctual
Verb
Form
Type
Token
Type
Token
Type
Token
Type
Token
1s
g
.
p
r
e
s
1
(8%)
1
(5%)
1
(5%)
1
(4%)
2s
g
.
p
r
e
s
4
(21%)
4
(14%)
1
(25%)
1
(25%)
3s
g
.
p
r
e
s
7
(58%)
13
(68%)
5
(42%)
7
(41%)
9
(47%)
18
(64%)
1
(25%)
1
(25%)
1p
l
.
p
r
e
t
1
(25%)
1
(25%)
1s
g
.
p
r
e
t
1
(8%)
2
(11%)
3s
g
.
p
a
s
t
(preterit
or
imperfect)
Infinitive
4
(33%)
7
(41%)
4
(21%)
4
(14%)
Gerund
Past
participle
Other
3
(25%)
3
(16%)
3
(25%)
3
(18%)
1
(5%)
1
(4%)
1
(25%)
1
(25%)
Total
12
(100%)
19
(100%)
12
(100%)
17
(100%)
19
(100%)
28
(100%)
4
(100%)
4
(100%)
Note:
Totals
may
not
equal
100
because
of
rounding.
well as the dearth of other finite forms, is just what one would expect, and is
comparable to what we find in CIS. As for the non-finite forms, the presence
of some infinitive form tokens in CCS is expected, and the absence of gerund
form tokens is not surprising: in Luis’ speech we find only one gerund form in
a sampling of 223 verb-form tokens. However, in CIS samples, past participle
forms are present for the non-stative verbs (forty-nine tokens), but we find
none in CCS. This is the only area in which modern-day Chinese Immigrant
Spanish and nineteenth-century CCS are not roughly comparable; it is not
clear why there are no past participle forms in CCS.
Lastly, in CCS we find one example of a possible TMA marker. It appears
in an exchange between a Spanish army commander and the Chinese Cuban
insurgent, Andrés Chiong, who the commander did not realize was part of the
Cuban army. The exchange is reproduced in (5.4). The element ta appears in
the last line.
(5.4) Spanish
commander: Tú chino, ¿no ha pasado alguien anoche por aquı́?
‘You, Chinaman, did anyone pass by here last night?’
Chiong: No señó Capitán, pa mi no sentı́ gente pasá.’
neg sir Captain for me neg hear-inf people pass-inf
‘No sir, Captain, I didn’t hear people go by.’
Spanish
commander: ¿Tú viste un grupo de insurrectos armados esta mañana que
venı́an de Varadero?
‘Did you see a group of armed insurgents this morning that
were coming from Varadero?’
Chiong: Yo no mila gente suleto tiene arma por la
I neg look.at-3sg people insurgent has arm in the
mañana.
morning
No señó, pa mi no sabe, ta trabaja, quema carbón.
Table 5.4. Distribution of stative, durative atelic, durative telic, and punctual
predicates in Chinese Coolie Spanish and Chinese Immigrant Spanish
Stative Atelic durative Telic durative Punctual
Group Type Token Type Token Type Token Type Token
Chinese 62 359 63 189 40 122 47 155
Immigrant
Spanish
(29%) (44%) (30%) (23%) (19%) (15%) (22%) (19%)
Chinese 12 19 12 17 19 28 4 4
Coolie
Spanish
(26%) (28%) 12 (26%) (25%) (40%) (41%) (9%) (6%)
Note: Totals may not equal 100 because of rounding.
114 Chinese Coolie Spanish in nineteenth-century Cuba
neg sir for me neg knows ta works, burns coal
‘I didn’t see armed insurgent people in the morning.
No sir, I don’t know, I was working, burning coal.’8
The element ta with the verb trabaja ‘s/he works’ is reminiscent of the
present-tense marker found in the Spanish-based creole Papiamentu and
the imperfective found in Palenquero, also a Spanish-based creole (5.5–5.6).
(See Maurer 1998:162; Schwegler 1998:254–256.)
(5.5) Mi ta traha na pòstkantor.
I pres work in post office
‘I work in the post office.’ (Maurer 1998:162)
(5.6) Ele ta ablá.
s/he imper speak
‘S/he is speaking.’ (Schwegler 1998:255)
The form ta, derived from está and/or estar, is also found in CCS as a copula
(5.7), corresponding to the use of estar in Spanish. In Papiamentu, ta is also a
copulative verb, with the key difference that in this language ta corresponds
to both ser and estar in Spanish (5.8).
(5.7) Tó la gente ta qui jabla bonito na má.
all the people is here talks pretty nothing more
‘All the people who are here talk pretty and nothing else.’
(Jiménez Pastrana 1963:75)
(5.8a) E ta dòkter.
‘He is a doctor.’ (Maurer 1998:169)
(5.8b) E ta kansá.
‘He is tired.’ (ibid.:170)
I take the presence of ta in these three varieties to be related only indirectly.
In CCS, it is clearly a reduction of está and/or estar, and used as is estar in
Spanish, with the exception of the possible case of the re-analysed TMA
marker shown in (5.4) above. Were it such a marker in CCS, it would have to
be marking imperfectivity, as in Palenquero. The indirect link between
Papiamentu and Palenquero on the one hand, and CCS on the other, is that
reflexes of está and/or estar lend themselves to re-analysis as aspectual or
tense markers because, being forms that have their own stress and precede a
main verb, they are easily perceived.
So far, I have compared the verb system of CCS to those of CIS. I have
found that, in terms of distribution of forms and of verb classes the
three varieties are comparable, though there are not enough data for CCS to
8
‘Burning coal’ most likely refers to the process of making charcoal from wood by slowly
burning it in an earthen oven until the wood becomes charcoal.
5.3 Structure of Chinese Coolie Spanish in Cuba 115
make any definitive claims. I noted that one possible case of re-analysis of ta
as a TMA marker is present in CCS. If it is authentic, then it could be an
indication that re-analysis was taking place.9
We now turn to the discussion of
other aspects of CCS.
5.3.3 Other characteristics of Chinese Coolie Spanish
The phonological traits in CCS cited in Jiménez Pastrana (1963) are largely
those found in CIS. I use here the adapted list of traits for Chinese Pidgin
English found in Shi (1991). Table 5.5 contains the traits in the left-hand
column and their sources in the right-hand column. In contrast to CIS, not all
traits in Table 5.5 are found in CCS. The confusion of liquids is attested in
Jiménez Pastrana (1963), but only as the replacement of [r] by [l] as in (5.9),
but not as [l] by [r], as we encounter in CIS.
(5.9) nosotlo (< Sp. nosotros ‘we, us’; ibid.:75)
dinelo (< Sp. dinero ‘money’; ibid.:80)
quiele (< Sp. quiere ‘s/he wants’; ibid.:99)
tiloteo (< Sp. tiroteo ‘shootout’; ibid.:100)
lifle (< Sp. rifle ‘rifle’; ibid.:100)
No cases of voiced stop devoicing are found in Jiménez Pastrana or in the
literary sources consulted (Bueno 1959; Feijóo 1960, 1965; and various
stories found in Los Archivos del Folklore Cubano). There is one possible
case of voicing of a voiceless stop in the form pasa, shown in (5.10).
Table 5.5. Phonological traits of Chinese Coolie Spanish
Trait Source
a. r ! l, l ! r Chinese
b. b, d, g devoicing (g ! k) Chinese
c. š ! s and s ! š Chinese
d. voicing of stops Chinese
e. three types of syllable simplification strategies
i. vowel epenthesis Chinese
ii. cluster simplification Chinese
iii. deletion of syllable coda Chinese
f. preference of CV structure Chinese, other
g. retention of closed syllables in -s Spanish
9
As will be discussed in chapter 6, one speaker of CIS, Jenny, displays uses of Spanish ya
‘already’ in environments in which it could be seen as an incipient perfective marker. Thus,
such particles can already begin to develop in L2 varieties.
116 Chinese Coolie Spanish in nineteenth-century Cuba
In Jenny’s speech (chapter 6), I found she had conflated the form pasa ‘pass
by, move on’ and the phrase vas a ‘you go to’, with the interpretation ‘go’. It
is possible, then, that pasa in (5.10) could represent a voiceless vas a with the
meaning ‘go, went’.
(5.10) Nosotlo principia peleá Lemelio, Cienfuego,
we at.the.beginning fight Remedios, Cienfuego
nosotlo pasa la Trocha, nosotlo vinimo Camagüey.
we went/moved the Trocha we came-1.pl Camagüey
‘At the beginning, we fought in Remedios and Cienfuego; we went to
Trocha, then to Camagüey.’
(Jiménez Pastrana 1963:76)
Syllable simplification is found in CCS, examples of which contain cluster
simplification or coda consonant deletion, but not epenthetic vowel insertion.
Examples of the first two phenomena are given in (5.11) and (5.12)
respectively.
(5.11) gobieno (< Sp. gobierno ‘government’; ibid.:76)
life (< Sp. rifles ‘rifles’; ibid.:75, 76)
libe (< Sp. libre ‘free’; ibid.:76)
(5.12) españó (< Sp. español ‘Spanish’; ibid.:73)
pañól (< Sp. español ‘Spanish’; ibid.:99)
señó (< Sp. señor ‘sir’; ibid.:91)
ficiá (< Sp. oficial ‘officer’; ibid.:100)
tilá (< Sp. tirar ‘shoot’; ibid.:100)
Note that in (5.11) there are examples of apheresis, the elision of the word-
initial syllable, attested in Jiménez Pastrana but not in CIS. The effects of
cluster simplification in the speech reported on by Jiménez Pastrana suggest a
notable preference for CV syllable structure, also apparent in CIS. Interest-
ingly, in the literary sources, as well as in Jiménez Pastrana, there is only one
instance of a plural noun (no tenel amigos (< Sp. no tener amigos ‘not have
friends’)), although in Jiménez Pastrana nouns such as life ‘rifles’ and cásula
‘shells’ are used in a plural context but not pluralized. This suggests that the
latter source is closer to CIS.
As far as morphosyntactic phenomena are concerned, we find that CCS and
CIS, to be examined in chapter 6, are highly comparable. The traits to be
considered are listed in Table 5.6. The predominant order found in CCS is
SVO order (Table 5.6a), examples of which are given in (5.13). There are no
examples of transitive clauses with overt objects in which the object is not
post-verbal.
(5.13a) ¿Tú quiele pollo? Mata capitán pañol.
2sg.fam want-3sg chicken kill captain Spanish
‘If you want to eat chicken, kill a Spanish captain.’
5.3 Structure of Chinese Coolie Spanish in Cuba 117
(5.13b) Tú no da pa nosotlo cásula.
2sg neg give for us shell
‘You don’t give us any ammunition.’
Adjuncts (Table 5.6b) usually appear after the verb, as in the examples in (5.14).
(5.14a) Luego nosotlo viene Oliente.
then we comes Oriente
‘Then we came to Oriente.’
(5.14b) Tó la gente camina pa la Camagüey.
all the people walks for the Camagüey
‘All the people walked to Camagüey.’
However, there is an interesting example, shown in (5.15), in which an
instrument adjunct phrase appears pre-verbally, as in Cantonese, the native
language the vast majority of the Chinese coolies spoke.
(5.15) Yo mimito con lifle tilá pañole tlentacinco tilo.
1sg emph with rifle shoot Spanish thirty-five shots.
‘I myself shot 35 rounds at the Spaniards.’
Table 5.6. Morphosyntactic traits of Chinese Coolie Spanish
Trait Source
a. SVO word order Spanish, Chinese
b. S adjunct V word order Chinese
c. No passive voice Other
d. Classifier equivalent to English piece Not present
e. N þ N (with genitive or modifier relation) Chinese
f. No prepositions as such There are prepositions
g. Adv þ Adj Spanish, Chinese
h. V þ IO þ DO order with no marking for IO or DO Chinese
i. Adv þ V þ NP Chinese
j. V þ N þ Adv Spanish, Chinese
k. ya completive Chinese
l. Evidence of other TMA markers Other
m. Copula with Ns, absent with Adjs. Chinese
n. In-situ and fronted wh-words Spanish, Chinesea
o. Bimorphemic wh-words Other
p. No equivalents of yes and no to questions Spanishb
q. Negation: no before the predicate Spanish, Chinese
r. Double negation: antes nunca no pensado
‘I had never thought [about it] before.’
Not present
s. Headless relative clauses Chinese
Notes:
a
fronted
b
there are
118 Chinese Coolie Spanish in nineteenth-century Cuba
Cantonese has a similar construction with a comitative or instrumental phrase
with an equivalent of ‘with’, as in (5.16).
(5.16) Jeui hóu tùhng ngàhnhòhng je chin.
most good with bank borrow money
‘It’s best to borrow money {with/from} the bank.’
(Matthews and Yip 1994:143)
In the CCS corpus, there is no evidence of a passive voice, a classifier
element, or the N þ N construction in the corpus (Table 5.6c–e). There is,
however, a clear example of a N de N construction, shown in (5.17), also
found in CIS (see (6.9a–c)).
(5.17) Generá de nosotlo muere aquı́.
general of we/us dies here
‘Some of our generals died here.’
Regarding prepositions (Table 5.6f), verbs of motion in CCS carry either no
directional marker (5.18), or appear with the element pa (< Spanish para
‘for’) as a marker of direction (5.19). The lack of prepositions is the norm in
Jenny’s speech (see (6.13)), though not in Luis’ (see examples in (6.14)).
(5.18a) Baja Ø la plasa españó, y pelea.
go.down the square Spanish and fight.
‘Go down to Spanish Square and fight.’
(5.18b) nosotlo vinimo Ø Camagüey . . . luego nosotlo viene Ø Oliente.
1pl came-1pl Camagüey then we comes Oriente
‘We came to Camagüey . . . then we went to Oriente.’
(5.18c) Nosotlo pasa Ø la Trocha.
we goes the Trocha
‘We went to Trocha.’
(5.19a) Tó la gente camina pa la Camagüey.
all the people walks for the Camagüey.
‘All the people walked to Camagüey.’
(5.19b) Tú dise nosotlo va pa la Camagüey.
2sg.fam says we goes for the Camagüey.
‘You tell us to go to Camagüey.’
With locative adjuncts, we find a lack of marking, as illustrated by the
examples in (5.20).
(5.20a) Nosotlo principia peleá Ø Lemelio.
we at.the.beginning fight Remedios
‘At the beginning, we fought in Remedios.’
(5.20b) Nosotlo peleá Ø Camagüey.
we fight Camagüey
‘We fought in Camagüey.’
5.3 Structure of Chinese Coolie Spanish in Cuba 119
(5.20c) Nosotlo tá Ø Oliente.
we is Oriente
‘We were in Oriente.’
(5.20d) Nosotlo peleá Ø Oliente.
we fight Oriente
‘We fought in Oriente.’
There are no data in the CCS sample related to adverb–adjective order (5.6g).
However, there are important data in the sample relating to object marking
(5.6h): We find one example, an IO marked by its immediately post-verbal
position, shown in (5.21).
(5.21) Tú dise nosotlo va pa la Camagüey.
2sg-fam says we/us goes for the Camagüey
‘You tell us to go to Camagüey.’
Although we have one example of V-IO-DO order, there is no established
pattern in CCS of V-IO-DO order with no marking on the IO or DO. How-
ever, we do find a fairly consistent pattern of V-IO-DO order, in which the IO
is marked with the element pa (< Spanish para ‘for’). The examples are
given in (5.22). Whereas in Spanish the default order is V-DO-IO, in these
examples the order is V-IO-DO, following the Chinese (i.e., Cantonese)
order. Nevertheless, in (5.22c), we have an example attributed to a Chinese
doctor, who uses the default order found in Spanish.
(5.22a) Tú no da pa nosotlo life.
2sg-fam neg gives for we/us rifle
‘You don’t give us rifles.’
(5.22b) Tú no da pa nosotlo cásula.
2sg-fam neg gives for we/us shell
‘You don’t give us shells.’
(5.22c) Yo le da medicina pa la gente poble.
1sg cl.3sg.io gives medicine for the people poor
‘I give medicine to the poor people.’
In Jenny’s speech, we find ample use of para as an IO marker (see 6.22),
while in Luis’ speech we find the Chinese pattern (see 6.15).
In our corpus, there are no clear examples of Adv-V-NP order (5.6i), but
we do find one example of V-NP-Adv (5.6j), shown in (5.23).
(5.23) Suleto tiene arma por la mañana.
insurgent has arm at the morning
‘The insurgents (who) had guns in the morning.’
Although the CCS sample contains no instances of ya ‘already’ used as a
tense–aspect marker (5.6k), we do encounter a particle reminiscent of
120 Chinese Coolie Spanish in nineteenth-century Cuba
progressive aspect marker, the use of ta, mentioned in (5.4) above and shown
again in (5.24), that is reminiscent of a present or an imperfective marker.
(5.24) No señó, pa mı́ no sabe, ta trabaja, quema carbón.
neg sir for me neg knows aux works, burns coal
‘No sir, I don’t know, I was working, burning coal.’
Regarding the use of the copulas ser and estar (5.6m), there are various
examples of ta (< Spanish estar ‘be [resultative or locative]’), shown in
(5.25), and of soy ‘I am’ and son ‘they are’ in (5.26).
(5.25a) Tó la gente ta qui jabla bonito na má.
all the people is here talk pretty nothing more
toda la gente que está aquı́ habla bonito nada más
‘All the people who are here talk pretty, nothing else.’
(5.25b) ‘Nosotlo tá Oliente, nosotlo peleá Oliente.
we is Oriente we fight.inf Oriente
nosotros estuvimos en Oriente, nostros peleamos en Oriente
‘We were in Oriente, we fought in Oriente.’
(5.25c) Londi ta Ginil Maceo?
where is General Maceo?
dónde está General Maceo
‘Where is General Maceo?’
(5.26a) Cuidado, yo soy cabo José.
careful 1sg am private José
‘Watch out, I’m Private José.’
(5.26b) que yo va pleguntá si son vel esi cosa?
comp 1sg goes ask if are true that thing
que yo voy a preguntar si son verdad esas cosas
‘I’m going to ask him whether these things are true.’
The presence of soy is probably due to a fixed phrase. In the text, the context
clarifies that the soldier in question would routinely utter (5.26) when others
addressed him. It is interesting to note that in the small corpus, there are no
instances in the corpus of zero copula.
With regard to fronted and in-situ wh-words (5.6n), there are two instances
of a fronted wh-word: one shown above in (5.25c) and the other below in
(5.27). The latter is of note because it is bimorphemic: qui cosa ‘what thing’
(with mid-vowel e raised to i instead of the standard qué ‘what’). Such
bimorphemic wh-words are considered to be more transparent and conse-
quently not uncommon in certain restructured language varieties (see
Muysken and Smith 1990; Clements and Mahboob 2000). These were also
found in Chinese pidgin English (see Shi 1991).
(5.27) Qui cosa usa Ficiá?
what thing uses officer
5.3 Structure of Chinese Coolie Spanish in Cuba 121
¿Qué usan los oficiales?
‘What do the officers use?’
Regarding the use of si ‘yes’ or no ‘no’ to yes–no questions (5.6p), we have
one example of a negation of a question, given in (5.28).
(5.28) ¡No es un chino manila, no!
neg is a Chinese Manila neg
‘I’m not a Chinaman!’
The use of the sentence-final negator no in this sentence suggests African
influence, as argued by Schwegler (1998:235), Ortiz López (1998:113–115),
and in this book sections 4.2.2 and 4.4, examples (4.10), (4.17), and the
accompanying discussion.
Finally, in the small corpus used here we find one example of headless
relative clause (5.6s), shown in (5.29). As is evident from the comparison
between the CCS sentence and its Spanish equivalent, the relative pronoun
que (whose place is marked with the symbol Ø) is absent.
(5.29) Tó la gente Ø ta qui jabla bonito na má.
all the people is here talk pretty nothing more
toda la gente [que] está aquı́ habla bonito nada más.
‘All the people who are here talk pretty, nothing else.’
With regard to discourse properties of CCS, note that one, object deletion,
occurs when the information is recoverable from the discourse context. There
are several examples of this phenomenon, shown in (5.30).
(5.30a) Si tiene dinelo paga pala mı́. Si no tiene, no paga Ø
if has money pay-3sg.pres for me. if neg has neg pay-3sg.pres
Si tienes dinero, me pagas. Si no tienes, no me pagas.
‘If you have money, you pay me. If you don’t, you don’t pay.’10
(5.30b) No señó, pa mı́ no sabe.
no sir for me neg know-3sg.pres
No señor, no sabı́a.
‘No sir, I didn’t know.’
(5.30c) Si tú pue cogé Ø Ø coge; y si no, Ø leja.
if you can catch-inf catch-imp and if neg leave-imp
Si tú puedes cogerme, cógeme, y si no, me dejas [en paz].
‘If you can catch me, catch me; otherwise leave me alone.’
Of these three examples, it is posible to find null objects in Spanish as well for
(5.30a) and (5.30b). However, in standard Spanish it is impossible to delete
the animate direct objects, as in (5.30c).
10
Spanish can delete an object in discourse if it is a mass term (noncount noun or bare plural). In
this example, dinero ‘money’ is a mass term and can be unexpressed in Spanish.
122 Chinese Coolie Spanish in nineteenth-century Cuba
5.4 Concluding remarks
In this chapter, we have seen that both the socio-historical and the linguistic
evidence suggest that the variety of Spanish spoken by the Chinese coolies in
the nineteenth century was in all likelihood not a pidgin, with its own con-
ventionalized vocabulary and grammar, but constituted rather individual
instances of naturalistic second language acquisition. As indentured labour-
ers, the Chinese coolies would have spoken Chinese among themselves, even
though several dialects of Cantonese were surely represented. While there is
anecdotal evidence, found in a short story (Bueno 1959:66), that Foreigner
Talk was used in addressing Chinese coolies, there is no historical evidence
that any re-structured variety of Spanish emerged in the communication
between Cubans and Chinese. The practice of shipping labourers to Cuba
from China continued for around thirty years (1847–1877). Thus, the short
period of time was not conducive to the creation of a Chinese pidgin Spanish
variety either.
The linguistic evidence, based on a comparison between CCS and CIS,
suggests that the CCS and CIS are highly similar and that both are good
examples of what I have been referring to as the ‘basic variety’ of natural-
istically learned L2 Spanish (Klein and Perdue 1992). And although the
socio-historical evidence suggests that the Chinese and Africans did not
interact, there is some evidence that at least some of the Chinese had enough
contact with Afro-Cubans to be influenced by their speech, apparent in the
African language trait of the sentence-final negation particle (i.e., ¡No es un
chino manila, no!).
The external ecology of the Chinese in Cuba and the linguistic data
coincide to give a picture of a people who learned enough Spanish to fulfil
their needs and desires, but whose children (the second generation, most of
whom had Cuban mothers) spoke Cuban Spanish, with few or no features of
their first-generation ancestors.
5.4 Concluding remarks 123
6 Chinese Immigrant Spanish
6.1 Introduction
There is a substantial body of work that focuses on the linguistic systems
immigrant workers construct in the naturalistic acquisition process of the host
country language (Heidelberger Forschungsprojekt 1975; Blackshire-Belay
1991; Klein and Perdue 1992, and bibliography therein). One key observation
expressed by Klein and Perdue (1992:315) in their comparative study of
immigrant speech in Europe is that many of the L2 learners’ speech, inde-
pendently of the source or target languages involved, shared a basic variety of
naturalistically learned L2 in which the development, though not identical,
was remarkably similar.
I consider naturalistic L2 acquisition by immigrants as interesting for
various reasons, two of which are: it can show us in some cases the processes
through which speakers of one language acquire another that is typologically
different, and it can give us insights into the initial stages of pidginization, as
I suggested in chapter 3.
When one thinks of pidginization and pidgins, what often comes to mind is
the image of plantation pidgins involving several languages in contact and
people under the yoke of slavery. However, manuals on contact languages
(e.g. Bakker 1995; Holm 1988, 1989; Mühlhäusler 1986; Sebba 1997;
Winford 2003) remind us that pidgins also form in other language contact
situations, such as those involving inter-ethnic and/or immigrant commu-
nities, trade, or tourist situations. In the latter two cases, we also encounter
instances of naturalistically learned L2 varieties instead of pidgins (e.g.,
Hinnenkamp 1984), and it is at times difficult to distinguish between pidgins
on the one hand and untutored L2 varieties on the other (cf. Blackshire-Belay
1991; Heidelberger Forschungsprojekt 1975).1
As we shall see, whether a
particular variety is labelled a pidgin or an L2 variety depends on the def-
initions employed. Using Hall’s (1966) definition, for example, the linguistic
system resulting from a day-long interaction between a tourist and a tourist
1
I use the terms ‘untutored Spanish’ and ‘naturalistically learned Spanish’ synonymously.
124
guide can be a pidgin. However, by Bakker’s (1995) definition (and by that
proposed by Winford (2003) to a certain extent), a pidgin must be a stable
linguistic system, with its own rules, which one can speak to varying degrees
of proficiency.
Inter-ethnic situations can often be bi- or multi-lingual settings in which a
variety of one of the languages emerges as the lingua franca. In this type of
situation, the L2 variety or pidgin can develop alongside its lexifier, as is the
case with the pidgin Hiri Motu, spoken in Papua New Guinea (Dutton 1997).
Hiri Motu developed among speakers of different languages in the same
general geographic area. In such inter-ethnic contact situations, short-distance
displacement may be implicit, whereas long-distance displacement of one or
more groups (e.g. displacement of a population hundreds or even thousands of
kilometres for purposes of labour) may, but need not, be part of the definition
of the situation type.
By contrast, immigrant situations involving workers (with or without their
families) are defined by, among other things, long-distance displacement of
one or more groups of people who need or want to live and work in another
place. The language manuals speak almost exclusively of trade, rather than
tourist, situations – that is, situations in which travelling traders develop a
communication system with peoples living in the areas they visit. Short- or
long-distance displacement of one or more groups is also implicit in the
definition of this situation type.
Given that language contact situations concerning immigrants also involve
semi-permanent to permanent long-distance displacements, the isolating
mechanisms that inhibit immigrants from integration play a large role in the
development of immigrant varieties of a given language. Taking isolation
mechanisms in biology as a basis, Croft (2000:199) distinguishes three types
of isolation mechanisms for language as well: geographical, ecological, and
reproductive. Geographical isolation is self-explanatory, referring to the
spatial separation of speakers in two populations ‘to a distance beyond the
normal geographical mobility of the speakers’. Ecological isolation refers to
social separation, whereby Croft equates ecological differences in biology
with social differences in language. In the same geographical area, certain
individuals may not talk to each other because they belong to different social,
ethnic, and/or caste groups. For language, biological reproductive isolation
translates into isolation in conversational intercourse. As an example, Croft
mentions the deaf, who communicate with a language based on the use of
hands, body, and eyes instead of voice and ears. In the case of immigrants in a
host country, both ecological isolation and reproductive isolation are relevant.
The native Chinese-speaking informants whose varieties of Spanish are the
focus of this chapter are ethnically distinct from the Spanish, and they also
have a different linguistic background from the Spanish-language speakers of
6.1 Introduction 125
their host country. Thus, social and conversational isolation have played a
role in their acquisition of Spanish.
The two Chinese immigrants in question went to Spain for different rea-
sons. In the case of Jenny, it was to seek a better life economically, to achieve
economic stability. Luis’ motivation for moving to Spain was to find a better
academic and social environment for his children. He was already married
and economically secure when he arrived in Spain, whereas Jenny was
single and not economically secure. The different varieties of Spanish the
informants speak reflect, to a certain extent, this difference in their respective
social and economic status upon arriving in Spain.
Both informants learned Spanish naturalistically. Recall from chapter 1
that naturalistic L2 acquisition can be the first stage in the process of a shift
to a target language, potentially culminating in the total abandonment of
one’s native language for the target language. If we view some cases of
naturalistic L2 acquisition as part of an eventual process of language shift, it
is possible to understand as two points on a continuum the differences
between individual solutions to the problem of communication (variably
stable L2 varieties, exhibiting a significant degree of innovation on the part of
the immigrants) and social solutions to the same problem (variably stable
shared varieties, involving varying degrees of propagation or adoption). The
former are considered L2 varieties, the latter pidgin varieties.
The extent to which immigrants learn the host-country language depends
on various factors, such as the age of individuals when they reach the host
country, their status there, attitudes of the immigrant and of host-country
communities, the extent of conventionalization of the immigrant variety
within the community, and the typological differences between the immigrant
and host-country languages. By conventionalization, I mean the emergence of
a pattern in language, for example, the pattern of subject-verb-object order in
a sentence or the increasing use of an adverb to mark past tense (see Goldberg
1998:205–208).
An immigrant’s age influences how well s/he learns a language and can
also influence the extent to which s/he interacts with host-language speakers.
Adult learners typically find it more difficult to achieve native-like per-
formance in an L2 than children between approximately four and twelve
years of age. Moreover, the younger one is, the easier it is for one, given the
opportunity, to interact with peer host-language speakers in school and on the
playground.
The asymmetrical social status between different communities in contact,
in our case the Chinese immigrants and the host-country Spanish speakers,
lessens the access to Spanish by these speakers. As discussed in detail below,
the conditions in which Jenny worked limited her access to Spanish almost
126 Chinese Immigrant Spanish
exclusively for the first several years of her residence in Spain. In Luis’ case,
he interacts with Spanish speakers only professionally, and only within the
domain of his expertise (he is a barber).
In naturalistic L2 acquisition of the type to be discussed here, each speaker
of the non-dominant community has developed individual mappings from
their native Chinese to the target language, Spanish. The lexical features of
their speech correspond in large measure to the generally accepted mappings,
but others are clearly innovations, such as cases of re-analysis. As far as I
could ascertain, the members of the Chinese community do not use Spanish
among themselves. Thus, the various innovations in a community for a given
mapping from Chinese to Spanish have not had a chance to spread through
the L2 variety of their Spanish and no compromise solutions between dif-
ferent innovations in the L2 varieties in question have been found (i.e., lev-
elling). If there were evidence of such processes, this would be an indication
of a further development in the pidginization process. In the cases in question,
however, the varieties of Spanish are instances of the incipient stage (the
jargon stage) of a potential case of pidginization, but also the first stage of a
potential language shift.
If the target language of an immigrant is typologically very different from
his or her L1, it is conceivably more difficult to find L1–L2 correspondences,
due to the differences in the respective feature pools. Chinese speakers who
learn Spanish, for instance, struggle more with inflectionally marked dis-
tinctions of tense, person, and number than do Italian speakers learning
Spanish because Italian and Spanish mark these distinctions more similarly.
As the first stage of a potential language-shift situation, one would also expect
significant substratum interference, i.e., interference from Chinese as the
Chinese immigrants acquire Spanish. In the shift process, speakers learn the
target-language lexicon (i.e., the lexical or substance features) but carry their
native-language structural features into the target language as far as it allows
for successful communication. By creating a variety of Spanish for their
specific communicative needs, these speakers may overcome the isolation in
conversational intercourse, but ecological isolation remains.
To the extent that adult speakers of two or more communities – in a
situation of relative isolation due to attitudinal factors and social asymmetry –
are obliged to create a common language to communicate with one another,
these communities over time will produce a linguistic system that will range
from a naturally learned L2 to a pidgin, depending on the circumstances. In
this chapter, I focus on the incipient stage of the creation process, that is, on
the manner in which our Chinese speakers have constructed their variety of
Spanish given their different backgrounds and, to the extent recoverable, from
their different inputs.
6.1 Introduction 127
6.2 The ecology of the Chinese immigrant community in Spain
and two of its members
Before discussing some details of the two informants, I provide a view of
the general ecology in which our informants live by briefly describing the
Chinese community in Spain.
6.2.1 The ecology of Chinese Immigrant Spanish in Spain
The Chinese ethnic community in Spain is heterogeneous, breaking down
along dialectal and extended familial lines. What they share, as Beltrán and
Garcı́a (2001) point out, is being Chinese in a foreign country. Spain has a
history with the Chinese that spreads over several centuries. The Spanish
encountered Chinese in their colonization of the Philippines in the sixteenth
century. In the nineteenth century, Spain had Chinese workers in the mines
and plantations of their territories in Peru and Cuba. In the twentieth century,
Spain was home to itinerant Chinese peddlers who sold small items on the
streets of the country’s major cities in the 1920s and 1930s. In the 1950s,
Madrid had resident Chinese circuses, and in the second half of the century
there was a substantial increase of the Chinese presence in Spain’s service
industry. As the Chinese restaurant industry has grown in Spain, services
dependent on this industry have emerged, such as import companies, shops,
travel agencies, Chinese vegetable farming, transport companies, skilled and
unskilled construction labour for restaurant renovation, etc. Given that their
work involves predominantly restaurants and restaurant-dependent services,
the largest concentrations of Chinese are in urban areas, with Madrid and
Barcelona having the two largest communities. Ninety-eight per cent of this
community works in the service industry. As of 2000, there were unofficially
around 60,000 Chinese in Spain, though the official number is 10,816. The
families established in Spain are related to each other through multiple
connections of kinship, economics, and place of origin (Beltrán and Garcı́a
2001:284–285).
Chinese communities abroad come from a society in which the superiority
of their own values is an accepted assumption, though it is said to be more
pronounced in the People’s Republic than in Taiwan (Beltrán and Garcı́a
2001:291–293). This, along with other factors, has an impact on the degree to
which Chinese assimilate in their host countries. The Chinese in Spain
emigrated from their homeland generally to seek a better life in terms of their
economic or social status. Had they been able to attain these goals in their
own country, they would not have emigrated to Spain or other countries. But
this was not the case for Taiwan-born Luis, who settled in Spain for the sake
of his children.
128 Chinese Immigrant Spanish
As the Chinese language is the pillar of education, and education is highly
prized in Chinese culture, the learning and maintenance of the native
language in Chinese immigrant communities are important. According to
Beltrán and Garcı́a, the Chinese set up their communities to isolate and
protect their language and culture from the culture in which they live, and
thus tend not to learn Spanish. Literacy data discussed in Beltrán and Garcı́a
(2001:289–290) reflect this tendency. Of the 264 Chinese immigrants who
applied for legalization in 1991, only 27 per cent (72 people) could read and
write Spanish. Indeed, Beltrán and Garcı́a (ibid.:291) note that ‘wherever the
Chinese immigrate, they build their own communities in isolation from
mainstream society, with their own culture, values, and language’. One result
of this is that they do not take advantage of the assistance the government
offers immigrants, preferring to be self-sufficient and unattached to the host
country. Integration, generally speaking, is neither needed nor desired. One of
several strategies the Chinese use to preserve their culture is to send their
children to study in China and then have them return as adolescents or young
adults. These children end up learning little Spanish because they are not
educated in the Spanish education system (ibid.:292). As noted, however,
there are exceptions to this marked tendency, one of which I will be dis-
cussing in the next sub-section.
6.2.2 The informants
Of the Chinese immigrants currently residing legally in Spain, 86 per cent
have arrived since 1986. One of the two informants of this study, Jenny, came
to Madrid in 1985, in her late twenties.2
Born in Nanking, Jenny is a speaker
of Mandarin Chinese. She knew she wanted to emigrate and thus learned
Chinese massage and acupuncture before leaving her homeland. Upon
arriving in Madrid, she knew no Spanish and had studied Russian and English
for no more than one year. During her first nine years in the Spanish capital,
she worked in a Chinese restaurant, in which she carried on most of her
communication in Mandarin Chinese. For the first years of her residence in
Madrid, Jenny lived with other Chinese women but since then has lived alone.
Her main goal in Madrid has been to become financially stable, and she has
learned Spanish to the extent that the language helped her to do so. Currently,
she works with Spaniards as a professional manicurist, masseuse, and
acupuncturist. She maintains little contact with the Chinese community in
Madrid, preferring instead to spend her time with Spaniards, although she has
2
The information on the informants’ varieties of Spanish is taken from data collected by the
author. Some of the statistical analysis of Jenny and Luis’ speech was first published in
Clements 2003a, 2003b, and 2005.
6.2 The ecology of the Chinese immigrant community in Spain 129
a sister and some Chinese-speaking friends in Madrid. Thus, for the first nine
years the minimal Spanish input Jenny received resulted in the Chinese
features in her environment outweighing the Spanish ones. During this for-
mative stage of language development, she acquired neither articles nor cli-
tics, nor features such as gender and number agreement. Since 1994, she has
increasingly become integrated into Spanish society, and as a consequence
her vocabulary is substantial. Even though the feature pool she has access to
contains largely Spanish lexical material and structure, her language devel-
opment is constrained by the system she created during the first nine years of
her residence in Madrid.
Before settling in Spain, Luis, the other informant, had already worked as a
barber for a number of years in Taiwan. He also had made a trip to Spain to
determine in which Spanish city he wanted to settle with his family. He
decided on Madrid, having a sister there; while in Spain she had married a
man of Chinese descent who himself had grown up in the country. Luis
brought his wife and child to Madrid in 1989. For the first several years, they
leased a hair-cutting and -styling business. From the beginning, then, he has
had contact with Spanish-speaking clients six days a week, forty-eight weeks
a year.
In his interview, Luis reported that he learned a lot of his Spanish from his
clients. Initially, he used textbooks brought from Taiwan to master the
Spanish alphabet and language, and he has been able to practise his Spanish
with his clients. In 2000, he and his wife, who is also a hair stylist, were able
to buy their own hair salon. Professionally, Luis seems well established in his
neighbourhood in Madrid.
Contrary to the general reasons for Chinese immigration to Spain, and to
Europe in general, Luis wanted to live in Spain because of his children. As a
hairdresser, he and his wife made a comparable living in Taiwan, so the
incentive for settling in Spain was not financial or to raise their social status,
but rather to allow his children to study in the Spanish school system. In
Taiwan, as well as in Japan and Korea, Luis reported that the high level of
competitiveness among children at the primary and secondary level is highly
stressful. Luis and his wife wanted to avoid this type of stressful situation in
the education of their children and felt that in Spain this was possible.
Luis and his wife have contact with Spanish speakers only in their work
place. Outside their working environment, Luis reported that he and his
family have virtually no contact with Spanish speakers, socializing exclu-
sively with relatives and close friends from their home town in Taiwan who
also now live in Madrid. Thus, on the one hand, Luis’ acquisition of Spanish
has been supported since his arrival in the sense that he maintains regular
contact with the Spanish-speaking clientele in his business. However, the
lack of diversity of interaction with Spanish speakers in a wide variety of
130 Chinese Immigrant Spanish
situations outside his profession has limited the richness of Spanish input he
has received. As a result, the feature pool to which Luis has had access has
been substantially richer in Chinese-language than Spanish-language features.
The data used for the comparison of our informants’ Spanish varieties were
collected in interviews that took place at the informants’ residence (Jenny) or
place of business (Luis). The author was the interlocutor. The topics covered
were: birth place, education and professional life in China, family, reasons for
emigrating, likes and dislikes of Spanish society, food, professional life in
Spain, and their future in Spain. A loose phonetic transcription of the inter-
view was used for the analysis.
An examination of the data reveals that both Jenny’s and Luis’ varieties of
Spanish share key traits, such as the devoicing of voiced stops, the preference
of CV structure, the confusion of /r/ and /l/ (and /n/ in Luis’ case), the lack of
noun and verb morphology, verb-final word order in certain constructions
(more pronounced in Jenny’s speech), the lack or non-standard use of articles
and clitic pronouns, and the re-analysis of certain forms or phrases, among
other things. I also found numerous differences in their respective varieties.
For example, while Jenny’s speech contains virtually no articles, Luis’ speech
reveals consistent use of the article la ‘the.fem.sg’. Moreover, Luis’ speech
exhibits more consistent use of verb forms than does Jenny’s speech (see
Tables 6.3 and 6.4). Jenny’s speech, in contrast, shows the development of a
stable pronominal system distinct from that of standard Spanish; moreover,
her variety of Spanish displays signs of developing a perfective particle.
Neither of these is as evident in Luis’ speech. Finally, in Jenny’s speech we
find far fewer disfluencies than in that of Luis. These differences follow dir-
ectly, I suggest, from the respective ecologies of the informants. Jenny has
fewer verb forms and no articles because her early Spanish feature pool was
significantly restricted, whereas Luis’ feature pool, though limited with
respect to diversity and depth, has always been constant. By contrast, the
greater fluency, richer vocabulary, and more developed pronominal and
aspectual system in the Spanish displayed by Jenny is a direct reflection of her
situation between 1994 and 2004, during which she has increasingly spent
time with Spanish speakers rather than Chinese speakers. She not only
interacts with Spanish speakers verbally, but regularly reads popular revistas
de corazón ‘magazines of the heart’ and keeps up on various aspects of current
events. Thus, Jenny’s Spanish feature pool has continually increased while
Luis’ has remained constant, though limited, over time. This suggests that the
differences in their speech are attributable to this difference in ecology, but
also to ease-of-processing considerations as will be discussed below.
Even though Jenny and Luis speak non-standard varieties of Spanish, they
both can express themselves, though (as mentioned) Jenny displays greater
fluency. Their respective Spanish varieties represent two independent cases of
6.2 The ecology of the Chinese immigrant community in Spain 131
natural L2 acquisition with a different degree and type of restricted input.
And although each variety constitutes an individual solution to the speaker’s
communicative needs in Spain, their respective structure not only suggests
substantial L1 transfer, but also reveals certain tendencies in form–function
mapping not traceable to their L1 that make these varieties especially inter-
esting when compared to certain pidgins and creoles. In chapters 3 and 5,
I touched upon the similarities between immigrant varieties, Chinese Coolie
Spanish, and pidgins/creoles. I note here a revealing similarity: Luis has
selected the 3pl present-tense form of the copula son ‘they are’ (infinitive
ser) as his copulative verb. As argued in chapter 1, this has to do with the
preference of CV(C) (son) syllable structure over VC syllable structure (es
‘s/he/it is’), even though es is many times more frequently used than son.
Interestingly, we encounter this same preference among those Cantonese
speakers who chose the analogous Portuguese form são [sãw] ‘they are’
instead of é [e] ‘s/he/it is’ as their copula in Makanese Creole Portuguese.
I will return to this and other features of Chinese Immigrant Spanish, but
before doing so, I need to examine in some detail the tense–aspect systems
that Jenny and Luis have developed in their respective Spanish varieties.
6.3 The tense–aspect system in Jenny’s and Luis’ speech
6.3.1 Distribution of verb forms
To analyse the verb forms produced by the two informants, I categorized
them as types and tokens as in chapter 5, that is, according to predicate class
(stative, atelic durative, telic durative, punctual) and verb form (first-/second-/
third-person-singular present, first-/third-person-plural present, first-/second-/
third-person-singular past (preterit and imperfect), infinitive, gerund, past
participle, other), and whether or not the forms were used in a context
appropriate to their aspect and tense. Forms were judged to be appropriately
used according to the context in which they were uttered. Present-tense forms
were judged correct in discourse contexts involving present states of affairs
being referred to by the informants at the time of speech.3
They were judged
incorrect, however, in discourse situations involving past events, activities, or
states referred to at the time of speech. As in chapter 5, only tense and
grammatical aspect were taken into account for classifying a verb form as
3
A verb type is considered a member of one verb class or another on the basis of how it is used.
For example, pasa Australia ‘went (to) Australia’ is telic and durative, but no pasa nada ‘there
is no problem’ is stative. Some predicate types were difficult to categorize. For example, vivir
‘to live’ can be argued to be a stative or atelic durative. The verb–token ratio is calculated per
category. For instance, sabe ‘know’ in the cell of third-person-singular present correct forms
and sabe in the corresponding incorrect forms are counted as two types.
132 Chinese Immigrant Spanish
correctly or incorrectly used. Correctness of person and number marking were
not considered. The results, shown in Tables 6.1 and 6.2, clearly indicate that
neither Jenny nor Luis exhibits a preponderance of correctly used verbal
forms.
Although a substantially greater percentage of the situations referred to by
both informants was in the past, Jenny’s speech contains only 4 preterit forms
(nació ‘s/he was born’, murió ‘s/he died’, fue (a(l)) ‘s/he went (to (the))’,
sacabó ‘it finished’) and 20 tokens out of a total of 602 tokens and 141 types.
Luis’s speech has only 2 preterits (vı́ ‘I saw’ and fue ‘s/he went’) and 2
imperfect forms (sabı́a ‘s/he knew’ and era ‘s/he/it was’) out of a total of 223
tokens and 71 types. Given that the forms Jenny and Luis used were almost
exclusively present-tense or non-finite forms, any past context referred to by a
present-tense verb form was considered incorrect, as was any context referred
to by using solely non-finite forms (i.e., infinitive, gerund, or past participial
form). Tables 6.1 and 6.2 display, in raw numbers and percentages, the dis-
tribution of correctly and incorrectly used present-tense finite and nonfinite
verb forms.
Based on this overview of the informants’ verb-form use in Spanish, it is
safe to say that neither speaker exhibits a tendency towards approximating the
target verbal system, but, as the chi-square values suggest, the distribution is
not random. For referring to the present, they used present-tense finite forms
Table 6.1. Distribution of correctly and incorrectly used
finite and non-finite verb tokens in Jenny’s speech
Form Finite Non-finite Total
Correct 230 (61%) 48 (21%) 278 (46%)
Incorrect 146 (39%) 178 (79%) 324 (54%)
Total 376 (100%) 226 (100%) 602 (100%)
Note: p < .001, v2
¼ 90.6 (df ¼ 1).
Table 6.2. Distribution of correctly and incorrectly used
finite and non-finite verb tokens in Luis’ speech
Form Finite Non-finite Total
Correct 96 (67%) 12 (15%) 108 (48%)
Incorrect 47 (33%) 68 (85%) 115 (52%)
Total 143 (100%) 80 (100%) 223 (100%)
Note: p < .001, v2
¼ 55.8 (df ¼ 1).
6.3 The tense–aspect system in Jenny’s and Luis’ speech 133
correctly only 61 per cent and 67 per cent of the time respectively, and they
used non-finite forms inappropriately (infinitive, gerund, past participle, or
re-analysed forms) 79 per cent and 85 per cent of the time.4
Tables 6.3 and 6.4 summarize the distribution of Jenny’s and Luis’ verb
forms, as types and tokens. Their respective verbal systems reveal substantial
sensitivity to lexical aspectual distinctions: (a) stative predicates occur
with high frequency in present-tense forms (84 per cent for both Jenny
(218/258) and Luis (85/101)), predominantly the 3sg-present-tense form
(Jenny 81 per cent and Luis 52 per cent);5
(b) atelic durative predicates occur
almost exclusively in present-tense, infinitival, and gerund forms; (c) telic
durative predicates, although occurring in all categories except for gerund, are
most frequently found in 3sg-present and infinitival forms;6
and (d) punctual
verbs and predicates are distributed principally over the 3sg-present, infini-
tival, and past participial forms. Noteworthy for telic durative and punctual
predicates is the stronger presence of past participle forms.
Also of note is that, although it is variable, we find a bias towards finite
forms in reference to the present tense. The present forms, at 56 per cent (336/
602) and 61 per cent (136/223) for Jenny and Luis respectively, are overall
the most frequently used forms by far. This is not surprising given that in
Spanish usage the present is twice as frequently used as the preterite (Gili
Gaya 1960, cited in Bybee 1985:121). Thus, the present-tense forms, and
more particularly the 3sg-present forms, are the default forms. This is most
apparent, as mentioned, with the stative predicates.7
Although past participial forms are infrequently used overall (5 per cent
(30/602) and 8.5 per cent (19/223) for Jenny and Luis respectively), they occur
more frequently with telic than with atelic predicates (77 per cent (23/30) and
53 per cent (10/19), for Jenny and Luis, respectively) and are more strongly
represented by forms in -ado (87 per cent (13/15) and 79 per cent (15/19) for
4
The term gerund is used here to refer to the Spanish forms in -ndo, as in cantando ‘singing’ and
bebiendo ‘drinking’.
5
Stative and atelic durative predicates (forms of vivir ‘to live’) are calculated together here.
6
The category ‘other’ includes non-verbal or chunked lexical items, such as the use of alquiler
‘rental’, fuera ‘out(side)’, and conóselo ‘be acquainted with’, which have been re-analysed as
verbs in Jenny’s speech. This last item is most likely a re-analysed form from conoce lo que ‘is
acquainted with that which’.
7
Luis’ speech exhibits a wider variety of present-tense forms than does Jenny’s. This may be
attributable to a number of factors. First, as a barber Luis was exposed to one-to-one Spanish
conversation situations from early on and may have learned more forms. That said, note that all
thirteen instances of 2pres forms are of one type ¿entiende? ‘do you understand?’, which was
spoken to the interlocutor. Although it is known from the context that we are dealing with a
second-person form, it does not have the corresponding morpheme -s. This may be due to one
of two reasons. Luis may be accessing the formal form or, more likely, he fails to realize word-
final sibilants. Luis’ speech rarely displays the word-final -s. For example, all ten examples of
the 1pl present form are realized as [tenemo] (standard Spanish tenemos). Moreover, the 3pl-
present forms are all of one verb, the copulative form son ‘they are’.
134 Chinese Immigrant Spanish
Table
6.3.
Verb
forms
in
Jenny’s
speech
Stative
Atelic
Durative
Telic
Durative
Punctual
Verb
Form
Type
Token
Type
Token
Type
Token
Type
Token
1s
g
-
p
r
e
s
5
(13.9%)
11
(4.3%)
2
(5.0%)
8
(7.0%)
1
(4.0%)
1
(1.0%)
1
(2.5%)
3
(2.3%)
3s
g
-
p
r
e
s
24
(66.7%)
207
(80.2%)
14
(35.0%)
39
(34.2%)
6
(24.0%)
22
(22.2%)
11
(27.5%)
45
(34.4%)
3s
g
-
p
a
s
t
(preterit
and
imperfect)
–
–
–
–
2
(8.0%)
7
(7.1%)
4
(10.0%)
13
(9.9%)
Infinitive
3
(8.3%)
7
(2.7%)
12
(30.0%)
17
(14.9%)
11
(44.0%)
50
(50.5%)
11
(27.5%)
24
(18.3%)
Gerund
–
–
7
(17.5%)
44
(38.6%)
–
–
–
–
Past
participle
1
(2.8%)
2
(0.8%)
3
(7.5%)
3
(2.6%)
2
(8.0%)
2
(2.0%)
9
(22.5%)
23
(17.6%)
Other
3
(8.3%)
31
(12.0%)
2
(5.0%)
3
(2.6%)
3
(12.0%)
17
(17.2%)
4
(10.0%)
23
(17.6%)
Total
36
(100%)
258
(100%)
40
(100%)
114
(100%)
25
(100%)
99
(100%)
40
(100%)
131
(100%)
Note:
Totals
may
not
equal
100
because
of
rounding.
Table
6.4.
Verb
forms
in
Luis’
speech
Stative
Atelic
Durative
Telic
Durative
Punctual
Verb
form
Type
Token
Type
Token
Type
Token
Type
Token
1s
g
-
p
r
e
s
3
(11.5%)
4
(4.0%)
3
(13.0%)
15
(20%)
1
(6.7%)
1
(4.3%)
–
–
2s
g
-
p
r
e
s
1
(3.8%)
13
(12.9%)
1
(4.3%)
3
(4%)
–
–
–
–
3s
g
-
p
r
e
s
12
(46.2%)
53
(52.5%)
4
(17.4%)
17
(22.7%)
7
(46.7%)
10
(43.5%)
3
(42.9%)
5
(20.8%)
1p
l
-
p
r
e
s
1
(3.8%)
10
(9.9%)
–
–
–
–
–
–
3p
l
-
p
r
e
s
1
(3.8%)
5
(5.0%)
–
–
–
–
–
–
1s
g
-
p
a
s
t
(preterit
and
imperfect)
2
(7.7%)
2
(2.0%)
–
–
–
–
–
–
2s
g
-
p
a
s
t
(preterit
and
imperfect)
1
(3.8%)
3
(2.9%)
–
–
–
–
–
–
3s
g
-
p
a
s
t
(preterit
and
imperfect)
1
(3.8%)
1
(1.0%)
–
–
1
(6.7%)
1
(4.3%)
–
–
Infinitive
4
(15.4%)
10
(9.9%)
11
(47.8%)
29
(38.7%)
4
(26.7%)
8
(34.8%)
2
(28.6%)
13
(54.2%)
Gerund
–
–
1
(4.3%)
1
(1.3%)
–
–
–
–
Past
participle
–
–
3
(13.0%)
10
(13.3%)
2
(13.3%)
3
(13.0%)
2
(28.6%)
6
(25.0%)
Other
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Total
26
(100%)
101
(100%)
23
(100%)
75
(100%)
15
(100%)
23
(100%)
7
(100%)
24
(100%)
Note:
Totals
may
not
equal
100
because
of
rounding.
Jenny and Luis respectively). As we shall see below, the correlation between
telic predicates and the past participle form is what one would expect. We also
expect the past participles in -ado to be more strongly represented because the
-a verb class (e.g. cantar ‘sing’ vs beber ‘drink’ or vivir ‘live’) is numerically
by far the most strongly represented morphologically defined verb class in
Spanish. In those cases where the past participial form does not appear with
punctual predicates, it marks anteriority in Jenny’s speech (pensado ‘I had
thought’), the past in Luis’ speech (pensaw ‘I thought/was thinking’, mirado
‘I looked around’), or a resultant state (casado ‘married’).8
The gerund form in both Jenny’s and Luis’ speech is found only in atelic
durative predicates, but never with punctual, telic durative, or stative predi-
cates. All the gerund forms are from the -a verb class (cantando), and none is
from the -e or -i verb classes (e.g., bebiendo ‘drinking’ or viviendo ‘living’).
Based on what we have seen so far, the evidence strongly suggests that the
Spanish aspect systems of these two speakers display some fairly clear pat-
terns. A significant correspondence obtains, according to the figures in Tables
6.3 and 6.4, between lexical class and verb form: in Jenny’s case, v2
¼ 467.48
for tokens, p < .001 and v2
¼ 55.92 for types, p < .001; for Luis, v2
¼ 98.72
for tokens, p < .001 and v2
¼ 39.27 for types, p < .20 (p < .05 would be
43.77). I take the non-significant v2
for Luis’ types to be due to an insufficient
amount of data rather than an insignificant relation, since Luis’ tokens show a
highly significant relation between lexical class and verb form. Thus, both
Jenny and Luis have mapped the lexical classes on to the aspectually
appropriate forms in a highly non-random manner. The reason for this is not
only the informants’ sensitivity to aspectual distinctions but also the fre-
quency with which Spanish speakers in interacting with them use these forms.
This is accounted for by appealing to the Primacy of Aspect (POA) and
Distributional Bias (DBH) Hypotheses (Andersen 1993, Andersen and Shirai
1996). As noted in chapter 1, the POA states that L2 learners initially restrict
8
Jenny’s example containing a past participle marking anteriority is the following:
(i) Yo pensa muchisima, antes nunca no pensado.
I think a lot before never neg think-ppart
‘I think about it a lot, before I had never thought about it.’
Luis’ example is:
(ii) y cuando antério, me pensaw pore viene aquı́ . . .
and when earlier I thought comp come here
‘When before, when I was thinking about coming here . . .’
In Luis’ speech, four of the seven instances of pensaw refer to past situations, the other three to
present situations. Both instances of mirado refer to past situations.
6.3 The tense–aspect system in Jenny’s and Luis’ speech 137
past or perfective marking to telic predicates and imperfective and progres-
sive marking to atelic verbs, whereby the progressive marking is not usually
over-extended to stative predicates. It accounts for the strong tendencies
found in Jenny’s and Luis’ speech. In their speech, all gerunds (imperfective
forms) appear with atelic dynamic predicates, over 80 per cent in Jenny’s case
(83 per cent (25/30)). Moreover, nearly half of Luis’ (47 per cent (9/19))
participial forms are found in telic predicates, and around 80 per cent of states
(84 per cent (218/258) for Jenny and 70 per cent (70/101) for Luis) are
encoded with the imperfective, present-tense forms. I take the lower number
of participial forms in Luis’ telic predicates to be a function of his exposure to
Spanish from the beginning. As mentioned above, this longer exposure to
Spanish also accounts for the higher number of forms found in his speech (see
Tables 6.3 and 6.4).
Although the POA predicts that perfective marking will appear first with
telic predicates and extend from there, it does not address the exact form–
function mapping. That is, it does not predict that precisely the 3sg.pres
form will match up with gerund forms, stative, and atelic predicates, while
past participles appear with punctual predicates or stative predicates denoting
resultant states. The DBH can predict this, however. Andersen (1983:320)
describes the DBH this way: ‘Native speakers will tend to use past or
perfective inflections more with telic and punctual events than with states
or activities, progressive inflections primarily with activities and imperfec-
tive inflections more with states and activities than with telic and
punctual events.’9
I assume that learner-directed, as well as foreigner-
directed, varieties influenced to some extent the input that Jenny and Luis
have received, especially during their first years as residents in Madrid. If this
accommodation on the part of the native speakers interacting with our
informants indeed took place, which is a reasonable assumption, it would
have facilitated their task of mapping the aspectual functions on to the
appropriate forms.
In chapter 1, we saw that the 3sg present-tense form is the most frequently
occurring form in the oral corpus of Madrid Spanish, the Spanish variety
Jenny and Luis have been exposed to. In Jenny’s speech, this form is the most
frequently used (313/602 tokens or 52 per cent) and in Luis’ speech the most
frequently used overall (53 tokens of 223 overall tokens, 24 per cent), which
according to the DBH would reflect the input they receive. Note that Jenny’s
9
Andersen and Shirai (1996:553) also state that, ‘It appears that learner-directed speech is more
consistent with the DBH than is N[ative] S[peaker]–N[ative] S[peaker] discourse . . . However,
it is not clear whether the topic of the conversation or the simplified nature of the learner-
directed speech is the key determining factor.’
138 Chinese Immigrant Spanish
and Luis’ stative predicates appear in the 3sg-present form, an imperfective
form, 80 per cent (207/258) and 52 per cent (53/101) of the time.10
If we disregard the infinitive forms and telic durative predicates (some-
times difficult to judge) and consider solely the distribution of verbs with
imperfective (gerund, 1sg.pres, and 3sg.pres) and perfective (3sg.pret
and ppart) morphology, comparing it to the distribution of the same forms
in the oral corpus from Madrid, we obtain Table 6.5, taken from Clements
2005. The fact that the distribution of forms in spoken language from Spain is
so close to that found in Jenny’s and Luis’ speech suggests that the DBH is
strongly supported.
An additional interesting aspect of the tense–aspect systems discussed here
is that their forms correspond in revealing ways to the forms that mark tense–
aspect in Spanish- and Portuguese-based creoles. Given this correspondence,
shown in Table 6.6, the deduction is that the POA and the DBH can also
account for the distribution of forms in contact-induced pidginized or cre-
olized varieties of Spanish and Portuguese. That is, the form–meaning
mapping tendencies predicted by the POA and the DBH were present at the
pidgin stage and then generalized across the respective tense–aspect systems
of the creoles during the process of creolization. It is also not surprising that
10
In studies on English L1 acquisition by Bloom, Lifter, and Hafitz (1980) and Shirai (1991), on
English L2 acquisition by Robison (1995), and on an L1 acquisition connectionist simulation
by Li and Shirai (2000), the 3sg.pres was also found to be the default form.
Table 6.5. Comparison of the distributions of verb forms (raw numbers and
percentages) according to imperfective (present, imperfect) and perfective
(preterit) verb forms in spoken language in Spain, Jenny’s speech, and Luis’
speech
Stative predicates Atelic predicates Punctual predicates
Spoken language in Spain
Imperfective 24409 (97.9%) 951 (91.4%) 394 (45.4%)
Perfective 525 (2.1%) 90 (8.6%) 473 (54.6%)
Jenny
Imperfective 218 (99.1%) 83 (96.5%) 48 (57.8%)
Perfective 2 (0.9%) 3 (3.5%) 35 (42.2%)
Luis
Imperfective 85 (96.6%) 36 (76.6%) 5 (45.5%)
Perfective 3 (3.4%) 11 (23.4%) 6 (54.5%)
6.3 The tense–aspect system in Jenny’s and Luis’ speech 139
Table
6.6.
Form–function
correspondences
between
Jenny’s
and
Luis’
speech
and
Spanish-
and
Portuguese-based
creoles
Form
Jenny’s
and
Luis’
speech
Chabacano
Palenquero
Papiamentu
Many
Portuguese-
based
creoles
Spanish
and
Portuguese
ya
(
já,
Portuguese)
possible
perfective
marker
perfective
marker
–
–
perfective
marker
‘already’
gerund
form
atelic
predicates
–
dynamic
verbs
dynamic
verbs
(recently
adopted)
dynamic
verbs
dynamic
and
some
stative
verbs
past
participle
telic
durative
predicates
–
–
resultative
states
and
passives
perfective
all
verbs
third-person
singular
stative
predicates
stative
predicates
stative
predicates
stative
predicates
stative
predicates
(e.g.,
ker,
te,
sab)
all
verbs
Sources:
Chabacano
(Forman
1972);
Palenquero
(Schwegler
1998);
Papiamentu
(Maurer
1998);
and
Portuguese-based
creoles
(Clements
1996;
Clements
and
Koontz-Garboden
2002).
the same distribution found in Chinese Immigrant Spanish is comparable to
that in Chinese Coolie Spanish examined in chapter 5.
6.3.2 Other characteristics of Jenny’s and Luis’ Spanish varieties
The phonological traits shared by Jenny and Luis are almost identical. To
display these, I have adapted a list of traits for Chinese pidgin English found
in Shi (1991). Table 6.7 gives the trait in the left-hand column and the source
of the trait in the right-hand column.11
All traits except Table 6.8g are pervasive in Luis’ speech and common
though less frequent in Jenny’s speech. Examples of traits (a–f) of Table 6.8
are given in (6.1) and (6.2).
(6.1) Examples from Jenny
mucho año (< Sp. muchos años ‘many years’)
abrá (< Sp. hablar ‘speak’)
fuela (< Sp. fuera ‘outside’)
solisidá (< Sp. solicitar ‘apply for’)
cuatro (< Sp. cuadros ‘paintings’)
iguá (< Sp. igual ‘same’)
detlás (< Sp. detrás ‘behind’)
dose (< Sp. dos ‘two’)
(6.2) Examples from Luis
ašı́ (< Sp. ası́ ‘thus, this/that way’)
esprigá (< Sp. explicar ‘explain’)
kirienta (< Sp. clienta ‘customer’)
unisé (< Sp. unisex ‘unisex’)
abra (< Sp. habla ‘s/he speaks’)
coleto (< Sp. correcto ‘correct’)
despué (< Sp. después ‘afterwards, after’)
tiporema (< Sp. diploma ‘diploma’)
seguridá sociá (< Sp. seguridad social ‘social security’)
tepende (< Sp. depende ‘it depends’)
caná (< Sp. ganar ‘to earn, win’)
catose (< Sp. catorce ‘fourteen’)
In addition, neither Jenny nor Luis has Castilian /h/ in their speech. They
produce Castilian /katorhe/ as [ka-tó-se]), with /rh/ to /s/ reduction. This may
be due to variable input on the part of the Spanish speakers they have been in
contact with, as Andalusian Spanish speakers, some of whom live in Madrid,
do not have /h/, but rather /s/ in their speech (e.g., [ka-tór-se]). It could also be
11
For my purposes, the use of the term ‘Chinese’ to refer to Mandarin and to Taiwanese is
uncontroversial as both varieties are nearly identical with regard to the features discussed in
this chapter. The information on Chinese is taken from Li and Thompson 1981, Smith 1991,
and Li and Shirai 2000.
6.3 The tense–aspect system in Jenny’s and Luis’ speech 141
Table 6.8. Morphosyntactic traits of Chinese Immigrant Spanish
Trait Source
a. SVO word order Spanish, Chinese
b. S Adjunct V word order Chinese
c. No passive voice Other
d. Classifier equivalent to English piece Not present
e. N þ N (with genitive or modifier relation) Chinese
f. No prepositions as such There are prepositions
g. Adv þ Adj Spanish, Chinese
h. V þ IO þ DO order with no marking for IO or DO Chinese
i. Adv þ V þ NP Chinese
j. V þ NP þ Adv Spanish, Chinese
k. ya completive Chinese
l. Other than ya and -do, there are no TMA markers Other
m. Copula with Ns, absent with Adjs. Chinese
n. In-situ and fronted wh-words Spanish, Chinesea
o. Bimorphemic wh-words Not present
p. No equivalents of yes and no to questions Spanishb
q. Negation: no before the predicate Spanish, Chinese
r. Double negation: antes nunca no pensado ‘I had never thought
[about it] before.’
Spanishc
s. Headless relative clauses Chinese
Notes:
a
Fronted.
b
There are.
c
Generalization of a restricted option in Spanish.
Table 6.7. Phonological traits of Chinese Immigrant Spanish
Trait Source
a. r ! l, l ! r Chinese
b. b, d, g devoicing (g ! k) Chinese
c. š ! s and s ! š Chinese
d. voicing of stops Chinese
e. three types of syllable simplification strategies –
i. vowel epenthesis Chinese
ii. cluster simplification Chinese
iii. deletion of syllable coda Chinese
f. preference of CV structure Chinese, other
g. retention of closed syllables in -s Spanish
142 Chinese Immigrant Spanish
due to an ease-of-processing tendency, producing an interdental voiceless
fricative as an alveolar voiceless sibilant.
The preference for CV syllable structure is seen in the elision of the word-
internal consonant clusters in words like catose ‘fourteen’ (< catorce
‘fourteen’) and word-final -l, as in iguá ‘same, even’ (< igual ‘same, even’),
as well as in the epenthetic vowels, as in kirienta for clienta ‘customer’.
I suggest that the preference for CV structure is also the reason for the choice of
indefinite and definite determiners made by these speakers. The Spanish def-
inite articles are el ‘the.masc.sing’, la ‘the.fem.sing’, los ‘the.masc.pl’,
las ‘the.masc.fem’. In Jenny’s and Luis’ speech, the plural determiners
appear only as part of lexicalized chunks, as in the city name (e.g., Las
Palmas, the capital city of Gran Canaria in the Canary Islands) or in phrases
they repeated after the interlocutor. The singular definite article preferred
almost exclusively is la over el (see examples in (6.7)). One alternative
account would be that la may occur overall (i.e., the sum of /la/ as a deter-
miner and a pronoun) more often than el. Indeed, this argument accounts for
the preference, as in Alameda and Cuetos’ (1995) frequency corpus el appears
54,027 times and la 78,700 times, or 1.45 times as often as el. The indefinite
article una ‘one.fem.sing’ is preferred to the masculine counterpart un,
although una occurs less frequently in discourse than un (19,973 tokens for
una compared to 25,119 tokens for un). I suggest that one reason for the
preference of una may lie in that it contains a CV structure whereas un does
not. The CV argument also accounts for the preference shown by Luis in his
choice of copula forms: in singular contexts, past and present, he prefers son
(< Spanish ‘they are’) to es (< Spanish ‘s/he/it is’) four to one. Again,
frequency would predict the opposite because es occurs five times more
frequently than son (14,453 to 2,897). The argument based on CV preference
accounts, then, for all these cases, whereas the frequency argument makes the
correct prediction only once. Assuming that la, una, and son have been
selected because they contain a CV structure, this is a case of a L1 structure –
a highly unmarked structure – displaying a stronger influence than frequency
of forms available in the feature pool of the informants.
There is weak evidence in the informants’ speech of sibilant retention in
coda position. It is only found in those cases where it does not have an
independent morphemic status. That is, the plural morpheme -s is never found
on plural forms (cf. mucho año ‘many years’ instead of muchos años), but
invariable words with word-final -s, such as nosotros [nosotros] are occa-
sionally found alongside [nosotro]. In terms of the phonological systems,
Jenny’s system appears to be closer to the native system than that of Luis.
This follows, I suggest, from the respective ecologies in which each speaker
has moved: although Jenny received minimal Spanish input during the first
years of her residence in Madrid, she has had constant input in her personal
6.3 The tense–aspect system in Jenny’s and Luis’ speech 143
and professional life since 1994 and has therefore been able to adapt her
speech accordingly. In Luis’ case, even though he has received Spanish input
from the beginning, it has only occurred in his place of business, and has been
related only to situations involving his profession. It is not surprising, then,
that Jenny’s speech should exhibit more native-like traits than Luis’ speech.
As we will see, however, this is not the case for her syntactic traits.
With respect to morphological traits, there is no evidence of consistent
person, number, or gender marking (except in pronouns), nor is there any
evidence of consistent use of verbal inflection in their speech.
As for syntactic traits, a list of those considered is given in Table 6.8.
SVO order and S-Adjunct-V order (Table 6.8a, b) are prevalent in Jenny’s
speech (6.3–6.4), while in Luis’ speech both objects and adjuncts appear post-
verbally (6.5–6.6).
(6.3a) Él no sabe mio.
he neg knows mine
Él no me conoce.
‘He doesn’t know me.’
(6.3b) yo no sabe el.
I neg knows he
Yo no lo conozco.
‘I don’t know him.’
(6.4a) yo dise tio conmigo hablando, puede fuela China.
I says uncle with-me talking can-3sg outside China
‘I said, “Uncle was telling me I could leave China.”’
(6.4b) Casa puede junto vive.
house can-3sg together lives
‘[You] can live with us.’
(6.5a) Nosotro, único aprendé españó.
we only learn-inf Spanish
‘The only thing we did was learn Spanish [on our own].’
(6.5b) Eso tiene dos, dos forma.
that has two two form
‘That [learning Spanish] has two ways.’
(6.6a) Nosotro llegá pore español casi doce año.
we arrive-inf for Spanish almost twelve year
‘We arrived in Spain almost twelve years ago.’
(6.6b) nosotro también [. . .] aprendé españó con la kirienta.
we also learn-inf Spanish with the.fem client
‘We also learned Spanish with the clients.’
In the speech of our informants, I found no examples of passive voice (Table
6.8c; neither with se nor with ser) nor of a noun classifier equivalent to piece
in Chinese Pidgin English (Table 6.8d). In both Jenny’s (6.7) and Luis’ (6.8)
speech, we find the N þ N with a genitive relation (Table 6.8e).
144 Chinese Immigrant Spanish
(6.7) Mi papá mamá familia diferente. (Jenny)
my father mother family different
‘The families of my father and mother were different.’
(6.8a) Mi mujer la padre casi son
mi wife the.fem father almost are.3pl-pres
la año noventa y cuatro, ya mueto.
the.fem year ninety and four already dead
‘My wife’s father was almost ninety-four years old [when] he died.’
(6.8b) para la niño fotulo
for the.fem child-masc future’
‘for the child’s future’
(6.8c) la campo pereduto
the.fem field-masc produce
‘produce of/from the field’
In Jenny’s speech, we also find N de N constructions, examples of which are
given in (6.9). In Chinese, the particle de is used to link a modified and
modifying element and to mark source and genitive semantic roles. Jenny
uses Spanish de ‘of’ in this manner as well, but also uses it to mark the
locative relation, not found in Chinese. De in Jenny’s speech is the nearest
element to an all-purpose preposition.
(6.9a) segundo, escuela de mayor . . . hasta diesiocho año, (modifier)
second school of older until eighteen year
y salı́ campo trabajando.
and left-1sg field working
‘Afterwards, I was in secondary school until I was eighteen, and I left to
work in the field.’
(6.9b) masahe de olientá (modifier)
massage of oriental
‘oriental massage’
(6.9c) nasioná de fiesta (modifier)
national of holiday
‘national holiday’
(6.9d) Hay tiene mio de cliente. (determiner modifier)
there-is has my of cliente
‘I have my own clients.’
(6.9e) Yo con Yuen . . . de Taiwan. (source)
I with Yuen from Taiwan
‘I [was] with Yuen from Taiwan.’
(6.9f) Metro de Barrio Pilar, linea nueve (genitive)
Subway of Neighbourhood Pilar, line nine
‘Pilar neighbourhood underground station, line nine.’
(6.9g) China nació de Nanking. (locative)
China born-3sg of Nanking
‘In China, I was born in Nanking.’
6.3 The tense–aspect system in Jenny’s and Luis’ speech 145
Luis shows more native-like uses of de, using it largely as it is used in
Spanish (see examples in (6.10a, b)). There are no instances in his speech of
locative de, but he does use it, as in Chinese, to link modifiers to modified
elements (6.10c, d).
(6.10a) mi cuñado de, de chino. No, no, de Hangá. (source)
my brother-in-law from, from Chinese. No, no, from Hong Kong
‘My brother-in-law is from China, no, no, he’s from Hong Kong.’
(6.10b) serekı́ta te Taipei (< Spanish cerquita de Taipei [lit. near-dim of
Taipei])
near-dim of Taipei
‘quite near Taipei’
(6.10c) mucho amigo de español (modifier)
many friend of Spanish
‘many Spanish friends’
(6.10d) aprendé ra lengua de españó (modifier)
learn the language of Spanish
‘learn the Spanish language’
However, Luis has created an all-purpose preposition in poro (which
doesn’t exist in Spanish) and variants thereof. In (6.11) I give an excerpt in
which poro and variants are used to mark various different relations.
(6.11a) Año [. . .] ochenta nueve, pero vı́ cuando antério,
year eighty nine but saw-1sg when before
(6.11b) yo pensáw poro viene aquı́, pero que [. . . ] mi hemana
I thought-ppart poro come-3sg.pres here but that my sister
mayó,
older
(6.11c) caši llegá por quı́ año, año ochenta y dos
almost arrive-inf poro here year year eighty two
(6.11d) y cuando mi hemana llegá por aquı́, primer estudio
and when my sister arrive-inf poro here first study-1sg.pres
(6.11e) y despué conoce mi cuñado, y . . . casá la, por hora casá [. . .]
and after meets my brother-in-law and marry-INF poro now marry-INF
‘In 1989, but I saw [her] before when I came [to visit]. I was
thinking to come here but my older sister, she arrived here in 1982; she studied
first then met my brother-in-law and then married. Now she’s married.’
In (6.11), por(o) functions as a complementizer in (6.11b), as a locative in
(6.11c) and (6.11d), and as a temporal marker in (6.11e). The first may be
modelled on Spanish purpose clauses with para ‘for’, as in para estudiar ‘in
order to study’. The last two are very likely modelled on the Spanish
expressions por aquı́ ‘around here’ and por ahora ‘for now, for the time
being’. It seems that Luis has generalized the use of por(o) to use as a
complementizer, as well as a spatial and temporal marker. Luis does use the
adverbs ahora ‘now’ and aquı́ ‘here’ without the accompanying por(o), and
he uses para to mark purpose, as well (6.12).
146 Chinese Immigrant Spanish
(6.12a) Y aquı́ tambié muy tranquilo, má tranquilo cuando fiesta,
and here also very relaxed more relaxed when holiday
(6.12b) Y para, para trabajá tambié má tranquilo . . . no como mi
and for, for work-inf also more relaxed . . . neg like my
paı́s.
country
‘And here it’s very relaxed, more so when there are holidays and to work
here, it’s also more relaxed, not like in my country.’
Although it is clear that both Jenny and Luis employ prepositions and linking
elements (Table 6.8f), there are various contexts in which they do not appear
in Jenny’s speech (6.13); in Luis’ speech, however, location and direction are
almost always overtly marked (6.14), often with the aforementioned por(o).
Note that in Chinese motion verbs are not accompanied by a preposition,
but a lack of preposition with locative predicates is not a feature of Mandarin
(Li and Thompson 1981).
(6.13a) yo llegá Ø Madrid, . . . vive Ø Madrid casi cuanto
I arrive Madrid live Madrid almost how-many
año?
year
‘I arrived in Madrid, I lived in Madrid almost how many years?’
(6.13b) Pero Ø España, español nada nada, no sabe.
but Spain Spanish nothing nothing neg know-3sg.pres
‘But in Spain, I knew nothing, nothing of Spanish.’
(6.14a) Momento no pensaw poro vuelva poro mi paı́s.
momento neg thought-ppart poro return poro my country
‘For the moment, I don’t plan on returning to my country.’
(6.14b) Llevá poro ra ciudá
take poro the.fem city
‘take to the city’
(6.14c) Me viene por aquı́.
me comes poro here
‘I came here.’
(6.14d) Trabajá en la seguridá sociá
work-inf in the.fem security social
‘work in the social security [hospital]’
(6.14e) Iguá que en mi paı́s
same as in my county
‘the same as in my country’
(6.14e) La hija no quiere trabajá . . . poro peluquerı́a.
the.fem daughter neg wants work poro hair salon
‘Her daughter didn’t want to work in the hair salon.’
Thus, although Luis uses non-standard elements such as his prepositions, he is
consistent in marking both directional and locative relations, whereas Jenny
tends not to mark either of them.
Degree adverb–adjective order (Table 6.8g), as in ma tranquilo ‘more
relaxed’ or muy tranquilo ‘very relaxed’, is found in both speakers’ speech, as
well as in Spanish and Chinese, and is thus not surprising.
6.3 The tense–aspect system in Jenny’s and Luis’ speech 147
In Luis’ speech, we also find V-IO-DO order (Table 6.8h, illustrated in
(6.15)), which is common in Chinese (Li and Thompson 1981:370–374), but
impossible in Spanish.
(6.15a) Kiriente enseña [nosotro]IO [cómo habra españó para
client teach-3sg.pres we how speak-3sg.pres Spanish for
coreto]DO
correct
‘The clients teach us how to speak Spanish correctly.’
(6.15b) Ahora no puede enseñá [mi hija]IO
now neg can-3sg.pres teach my daughter
[ahora hecho qué, hecho qué]DO ¿entiende?
now do-ppart what do-ppart what understand
‘Now I cannot teach my daughter, “What have you done, what have you
done”, you understand?’
The question of argument order in a clause is related to argument marking,
both of full and pronominal NPs. The pronominal systems created by the
informants, as far as they are discernible, are highly innovative. Jenny’s is
given in (6.16) and Luis’ in (6.17).
(6.16) Subject pronouns Object pronouns
Singular Plural Singular Plural
yo nosotros mio12
nosotros
tú – tuyo –
él/ella ellos él/ella ellos13
(6.17) Subject pronouns Object pronouns
Singular Plural Singular Plural
yo/me nosotros – nosotros
tú – – –
– – – –
For 1sg and 2sg, Jenny has re-analysed the masculine forms of the possessive
pronoun (mio ‘mine’, tuyo ‘yours’) as DO pronouns. Moreover, she uses the
3sg subject pronouns él ‘he, him’ and ella ‘she, her’, as well as 1pl nosotros
‘we’, as DO pronouns. Illustrative examples are given in (6.18).
(6.18a) Él no sabe mio.
he neg knows mine
‘He doesn’t know me.’
(6.18b) yo no sabe el.
I neg knows he
‘I don’t know him.’
12
Spanish possessives (singular and 3pl) have proclitic forms (mi(s) ‘my’, tu(s) ‘your’, su(s)
‘his, her, their’), as well as stressed, post-placed forms (mı́o(s), mı́a(s) ‘my’, tuyo(s), tuya(s)
‘your’, suyo(s), suya(s) ‘his, her, their’) (Picallo and Rigau 1999). Jenny interprets the former
as possessives and has re-analysed the latter as object pronouns.
13
In Spanish, él ‘he, him’, ella ‘she, her’, and nosotros ‘we, us’ are used as subject pronouns,
but also after prepositions, as in de él/ella/nosotros ‘from/of him/her/us’.
148 Chinese Immigrant Spanish
(6.18c) ¿Quién ayuda tuyo?
who helps yours
‘Who would help you?’
(6.18d) Una amiga presenta nosotros.
a friend introduces we
‘A friend introduced us.’
The data on Luis’ pronominal system are more incomplete. What we glean
from his speech sample is that he uses yo ‘I’ and me ‘me’ interchangeably for
the 1sg subject pronoun (6.19) and uses nosotros ‘we, us’ as a subject, a DO,
and an IO pronoun (6.20).
(6.19a) Yo pensaw poro viene aquı́.
I thought-ppart link comes here
‘I thought about coming here.’
(6.19b) cuando anterio, me pensaw pore viene aquı́.
when previous me thought-ppart link comes here
‘When earlier I thought about coming here.’
(6.20a) yo con mi mujé anterio
I with my wife previous
cuando losotro llegá españó . . .
when we arrive-inf Spanish
‘When my wife and I, when we arrived in Spain . . .’
(6.20b) Mi cuñado ayuda nosotro mucho.
my brother-in-law helps we much
‘My brother-in-law helped us a lot.’
(6.20b) Kiriente enseña nosotro cómo habra españó para coleto.
clients teaches we how speaks Spanish for correct
‘The clients teach us how to speak correctly.’
Note that these pronominal systems, as far as they are explicit, show some
similarity with their Chinese counterpart (6.21), but diverge from it in sig-
nificant ways.
(6.21) Chinese subject and object pronouns (Li and Thompson 1981:134)
Singular Plural
w
o w
omen
n
ı n
ımen
t
a t
amen
The similarities are that Luis uses both yo and me as ‘I’, and nosotros as a
subject, a DO, and an IO pronoun. Similarly, Jenny uses él as ‘he, him’,
ella as ‘she, her’ and nosotros as ‘we, us’. As for the differences, Jenny
has developed a new set of non-nominative pronouns, mio ‘me.obj’
(< Spanish mio ‘mine-masc.sing’) and tuyo ‘you.obj’ (< Spanish tuyo
‘you-masc.sing), which is more similar to the Spanish system than her
native Chinese one.
6.3 The tense–aspect system in Jenny’s and Luis’ speech 149
In addition to the pronominal system, Jenny has developed an innovative
manner of marking IOs, not like that found in Luis’ speech in (6.15). She
marks IOs with either para ‘for’ or with con ‘with’. Examples are given in
(6.22).
(6.22a) Un gente presenta una presona para mi.
a people introduce a person for me
‘A person introduced me to a person.’
(6.22b) yo siempre sale levista, pasa allı́, coge,
I always comes.out magazine goes-by there picks-up
sube casa, milando, luego bajo, volvé para ella.
goes.up house looking then descend-1sg.pres return-inf for her
‘I always, when the magazines hit the stand, go by there, pick them up, go
up to my place, look at them, then take them down and return them to her.’
(6.22c) Ya conmigo dise, ‘tú no pasa Austalia,
already with-me says 2sg neg goes-to14
Australia
con nosotros fue para Malaga, o Almerı́a.”
with us went for Malaga or Almerı́a
‘She said to me, “If you don’t go to Australia, you can come with us
to Málaga or Almerı́a.”’
With regard to the construction Adv þ V þ NP (Table 6.8i), it is rare in my
data, but V þ NP þ Adv order (Table 6.8j) is common in the speech of both
speakers, and is also the one common to both Chinese and Spanish.
With respect to verbal markers, Jenny’s speech shows what I believe to be
an incipient completive marker in her use of ya (< Spanish ‘already’) and the
past participle ending -do (Table 6.8k). Some examples are given in (6.23), in
which ya is not used with its adverbial meaning of ‘already’. This use does
not correspond to any usage in Spanish.15
(6.23a) Yo luego a la cuatro, cuatro año ya volvé Sanghay.
I after at the four four year already return-inf Shanghai
‘I returned to Shanghai after four years.’
(6.23b) Mil novesiento ochenta cuatro, de junio o julio ya coge pasaporte.
1984 of June or July already get-3sg-pres passport
‘I got my passport in June or July of 1984.’
(6.23c) Primero estudio, ahora ya casado con una señor.
first study now already married-ppart with a-fem man
‘She studied first; now she’s married to a man.’
(6.23d) Ya selado y selado lcgo yo pensando, mehó negocio.
already close-ppart and close-ppart then I thinking better business
‘It closed, and after it closed, I thought, better [to launch] another business.’
14
In Jenny’s speech, pasa seems to be an amalgam of pasa ‘goes by’ and vas a ‘you.sg go to’.
In Spanish, the letter v stands for /b/ as there is no labio-dental sound in Castilian. As seen in
Table 6.7 above, it is common for Chinese to devoice voiced stops. In this way, Spanish pasa
and vas a come to be realized identically as [pása] by Jenny.
15
See Clements 2003a for details.
150 Chinese Immigrant Spanish
It was mentioned above that the past participial forms in Jenny’s speech
occur more frequently with telic predicates. One possibility for this prefer-
ence might be that Jenny has identified the Spanish past participial suffix -do
as another perfective marker. If we look at Mandarin Chinese translations of
some of Jenny’s Spanish utterances containing participial forms, the distri-
bution of the Chinese perfective marker -le corresponds somewhat regularly
to Spanish -do. An example from a connected discourse segment is given in
(6.25). Of the Spanish verb forms in (6.25) referring to the past (that is,
machado, venido, viene, llegado) three are past participles. Although I can
offer no explanation for why Jenny used the 3sg.pres viene instead of
venido, the data suggest that she may have made a connection between the
notion of perfectivity and the Spanish past participial suffix. However, she
has also extended the use of the past participial suffix to punctual verbs that
do not refer to perfective contexts.
(6.25) Jenny:
Mi tio macha-do Estados Unido. Tu sabe Yuen Taiwan
my uncle leave-ppart United States you.sg know Yuen Taiwan
veni-do?
come-ppart
Chinese:
wŏ yizhang likai-le Meiguo. Nı̆ renshi Yuen Taiwan lai-le. . .
my uncle leave-perf America you know Yuen Taiwan come-perf
Jenny:
Yuen más detlás viene. Yo más temprano llega-do.
Yuen more behind come-3sg-pres 1sg more early arrive-ppart
Chinese:
Yuen yihou lai-le wŏ zao lai-le.
Yuen afterwards come-perf 1sg early come-perf
‘My uncle came to the United States. You know Yuen, who came from Taiwan?
Yuen came afterwards. I came before her.’
One example occurred in a phone conversation with Jenny in which she gave
directions about how to reach her neighbourhood by subway. In spite of being
a generic statement, her explanation in (6.26) contains the past participial
form of llegar ‘arrive’.
(6.26) Aquı́ llegado lı́nea uno o dos.
here arrive-ppart line one or two
‘One can get here by line one or two.’
In Luis’ speech, we also find two examples ((6.8a) and (6.27)) that suggest
there may be an incipient completive marker developing, but there are also
other examples of ya use that are similar to standard Spanish (6.28).
(6.8a) Mi mujer la padre casi son la año noventa y cuatro, ya mueto.
mi wife the.fem father almost are.3sg-pres the.fem year ninety and four already dead
‘My wife’s father was almost ninety-four years old [when] he died.’
6.3 The tense–aspect system in Jenny’s and Luis’ speech 151
(6.27) Caši son la cuando niño
almost are.3sg.pres the.fem.sg when child
cinco año, ya llegá pore españo.
five year already arrive-inf locative Spanish
‘He [the brother-in-law] was a child of five years when he arrived in Spain.’
(6.28a) entonse awra ya, ya no tiene tiporema.16
then now already, already it has diploma
‘Then, now he already has a diploma.’
(6.28b) ya lo sabı́a trabajá peluquerı́a.
already do.masc/neut.sg knew-1,3sg.imperf work-inf hair salon
‘I already knew how to work in a hair salon.’
(6.28c) nosotro en mi paı́s ya tenemo una peluquelı́a.
we in my country already have.1pl.pres a hair salon
‘In my country we had already owned a hair salon.’
(6.28d) ya lo jubilado.
already do.masc/neut.sg retired
‘[My father] is already retired.’
While the use of ya and -do in Jenny’s speech as well as the use of ya in Luis’
are suggestive of a developing completive or perfective marker, it cannot be
said that such a marker is fully developed in their varieties. Nor is there any
evidence that other tense or aspect markers are developing in their respective
16
The form no here I interpret as a realization of the Spanish DO pronoun lo. In Luis’ speech,
there is an anomalous use of clitic pronouns, which seem to be re-analysed as part of the verb
itself. For example, the form sabı́a ‘know, knew’ (< Spanish ‘I/she/he knew’) always appears
with this pronoun, realized as [lo] or [no], in non-negative contexts. The examples are given
below. Note that the instances of lo in (a, b, c) have no reference; we can therefore
hypothesize that [lo] or [no] forms part of the verb for Luis.
(a) ya lo sabı́a trabajá peluquerı́a.
already do.masc/neut.sg knew-1,3sg.imperf work-inf hair salon
‘I already knew how to work in a hair salon.’
(b) tu lo sabı́a.
you do.masc/neut.sg knew-1,3sg.imperf
‘You know.’
(c) Como tu no sabı́a,
as you.fam.sg do.masc/neut.sg knew-1,3sg.imper
cuando fuera otro paı́s, hay paisano.
when go-3sg.imper.sub other country there is/are country.people
de mismo puebro
of same town
‘As you know, when you go to another country, there are countrymen from your own
town.’
(d) Cómo se dise? Lo sabı́a.
how is-it-said do.masc/neut.sg knew-1,3sg.imper
‘How do you say it? I know it/used to know it.’
152 Chinese Immigrant Spanish
systems (Table 6.8l). This is not surprising given that we are dealing with
naturalistically learned L2 varieties of Spanish, individual solutions to the
problem of communication that exhibit a substantial amount of innovation on
the part of the speakers, but that have not gone, and in all likelihood will not
go, through the process of propagation (also called adoption or diffusion) or
levelling (see Croft 2000:ch. 7 and Siegel 2000:ch. 1).
The copula in the informants’ speech is often deleted (Table 6.8m), mostly
with adjectival predicates, as is the case in Chinese, but also occasionally with
nominal or prepositional predicates, which is not the case in Chinese.
Examples from Jenny are given in (6.29) and from Luis in (6.30). Note that
the copula deletion affects ser as well as estar. In the examples, the appro-
priate copula is included in parentheses.
(6.29a) Por ejemplo, ahola yo Ø (estoy) sola. Todavı́a no Ø (estoy) casado . . . yo
for example now I (am) alone still neg married I
siempre Ø (estoy) con Yuen, está también hablando, yo no puede Ø
always (am) with Yuen is also talking I neg can.3sg.pres
(estar) sola.
(be) alone
‘For example, now I am alone. I’m not yet married. I’m always with Yuen, and
am saying [to her that] I cannot be alone.’
(6.29b) Mamá poquito pénsa. Cabesa más ave. Dise, ‘tu Ø (eres)
Mamá a.little think head more agile says you.fam.sg (are)
joven puede fuela para trabajo gána dinero.’
young can-3sg.pres out for work earn-3sg.pres money
‘Mum thought a little. She has a good head. She said, “You are young, you can
leave to work and make money.”’
(6.29c) Papá dise tú no, ‘(eres) una sola mujer,
Father says you.fam.sg neg (are) an alone woman,
porque fuera Ø (está) muy lejo.’
because outside (is) very far
‘Father said, “You can’t [leave China], you’re a single woman, because to leave
China, that would be going very far away.’
(6.29d) Mi papá mamá familia Ø (es) diferente.
my father mother family (is) different
‘The families of my mother and father are different.’
(6.30a) En mi paı́s . . . como iguá a Japón y iguá Korea su, Han Kang,
in my country like same to Japan and same Korea south, Hong Kong
cuando ra niño pequeño estudio Ø (es) muy pesaw, muy fuelte . . .
when the child small study (is) very heavy, very strong
‘In my country, as it is in Japan, South Korea, and Hong Kong, when a small
child studies, it is very difficult, very intense.’
(6.30b) Sı́, sı́, eso Ø (es) muy importante.
yes, yes, that very important
‘Yes, yes, that is very important.’
(6.30c) la fase no Ø (eran) coleto.
the phrase neg correct
‘The sentences weren’t correct.’
6.3 The tense–aspect system in Jenny’s and Luis’ speech 153
(6.30d) y ahora Ø (está) solo mi šuegra en Taiwán, con la hija.
and now alone my mother-in-law in Taiwan, with the daughter
‘And now my mother-in-law’s alone in Taiwan, with her daughter.’
(6.30e) nosotro puebro en la Taiwan Ø (está) en šentro.
we town in the Taiwan en centre
no notre, no es sur, en la šientro
neg north, neg is south, in the-fem.sg centre
‘Our home town in Taiwan is in the centre of the country, not in the north,
not in the south, in the centre.’
(6.30f) Pero cuando eso pate Ø (es) casi más que españó.
but when that part (is) almost more than Spanish
‘But that part [social security benefits in Taiwan] is almost more than in Spain.’
The data on wh-word placement (Table 6.8n) reveal fronting as well as in-situ
placement. Examples from Jenny are (6.18c) below, as well as those in (6.31).
The sole example from Luis is shown in (6.15b) below.
(6.18c) ¿Quién ayuda tuyo?
who helps yours
‘Who would help you?’
(6.31a) Y enfermo, ¿cómo? ¿Quiené cuidado?17
and sick how who care/cared-ppart
‘And what if you become sick? Who will care for you?’
(6.31b) y selado lcgo yo pensando, meho negocio, negocio de qué?
and closed-ppart then I thinking better business business of what
‘After [my restaurant business] closed, I was thinking about a
better business, what type of business?’
(6.31c) Yo todo . . ., antes todo complá, ahola complá para qué?
I all before all buy-inf now buy-inf for what
‘Before I used to buy [all the magazines], but now why buy them?’
(6.31d) Tu escribe libro o de qué?
you-sg.fam writes book or of what
‘What are you writing a book about?’
(6.15b) Ahora no puede enseñá mi hija
now neg can-3sg.pres teach my daughter
ahora hecho qué, hecho qué ¿entiende?
now do-ppart what do-ppart what understand
‘Now I cannot teach my daughter, “What have you done, what have you
done”, you understand?’
In the speech of the informants, I found no bimorphemic wh-words (e.g., qué
persona ‘what person’ for quién ‘who’) that were not also part of the target
language (e.g., para qué ‘for what’) (Table 6.8o). However, the speech of both
informants has equivalents of ‘yes’ and ‘no’ to questions (Table 6.8p), a Spanish
17
The form cuidado corresponds to the past participle of cuidar ‘care for’, and is also a noun,
meaning ‘care’.
154 Chinese Immigrant Spanish
trait, lacking in Chinese (Li and Thompson 1981:557–563). Both Jenny and Luis
use the negator no before predicates (Table 6.8q), an expected outcome given
that it is the default manner of negating a sentence both in Spanish and Chinese.
Although there is no double negation found in Luis’ speech (Table 6.8r), in
Jenny’s speech we do find double negation present (6.32) that seems to have been
generalized to constructions in which it does not exist in Spanish.18
(6.32) Yo pensá muchı́sima, antes nunca no pensado.
I think-inf a lot before never neg thought-ppart
‘I think a lot now; I had never thought [about it before].’
This last trait, the presence of headless relative clauses (Table 6.8s),
is found in both Jenny and Luis’ speech (6.33 and 6.34 respectively).
I attribute it to Chinese, where it is common, and not to Spanish, where it is
impossible.
(6.33) Pelo todavı́a yo no . . . conóselo una amigo
but yet I neg acquainted.with indef-fem-sg friend
Ø le gusta mucho mucho.
3sg-dat like-3sg-pres a-lot a-lot
‘But I haven’t yet met a friend who I really like a lot.’
(6.34) hay cosa Ø no, no me gusta perque aquı́
there-is thing neg neg to.me please-3sg-pres because here
hay mucho comida, mucho sa.
there.is much food much salt
‘There’s something that I don’t like because here in much of the food there’s
a lot of salt.’
The evidence we have seen from the speech of Jenny and Luis in this
section suggests that their language systems follow from their individual
ecologies. From the beginning of his residence in Madrid and over the years,
Luis has received more constant Spanish input, although this has been
restricted to the work place. Consequently, his speech contains a wider variety
of verb forms, there is evidence of articles in his speech, and he has some
pronominal clitics in his speech though they seem to be part of re-analysed
lexical chunks. Given that Luis uses Spanish only in the work place, his speech
exhibits more disfluencies than Jenny’s and shows less evidence of aspectual
18
The restriction in standard Spanish is that the two negative particles no and nunca cannot both
appear pre-verbally, as in (a). If no, which is obligatorily in pre-verbal slot, is used, nunca can
only appear post-verbally, as shown in (b). If nunca appears pre-verbally, it must be the only
negative particle, as in (c).
(a) *Yo pienso muchı́simo ahora; antes nunca no pensaba en ello.
(b) Yo pienso muchı́simo ahora; antes no pensaba nunca en ello.
(c) Yo pienso muchı́simo ahora; antes nunca pensaba en ello.
6.3 The tense–aspect system in Jenny’s and Luis’ speech 155
marker development. By contrast, Jenny’s speech has in ya and -do what I
consider to be incipient aspectual markers. Moreover, although initially she
had minimal exposure to Spanish – for which reason her speech contains fewer
verbal forms, little to no sign of articles or pronominal clitics, and head-final
order where adjuncts are involved – in recent years her exposure to the lan-
guage has increased significantly; her fluency in the Spanish variety she has
created, therefore, is substantially greater than that of Luis.
With regard to the various traits of their speech, all the phonological
processes discussed in Table 6.7 stem from Chinese except the occasional
retention of closed syllables in -s, which is a Spanish trait. As for the mor-
phosyntactic traits in Table 6.8, seven features are exclusively attributable to
Chinese (Table 6.8b, e, h, i, k, m, s) and five to both Chinese and Spanish
(Table 6.8a, g, j, n, q), but only two exclusively to Spanish (Table 6.8p, r).
The fact that neither passive voice nor other TMA markers except for the
incipient ya and -do are found is, I believe, attributable either to the nature of
the varieties (naturalistic L2 varieties) or to the current developmental stage
of each of the varieties. Given the evidence of the development of ya and -do,
I think it is best not to rule out the possibility of innovative aspectual markers,
and possibly even innovative tense markers, developing in naturalistic L2
varieties. The same may be said of a type of passive voice. The fact that
these features have not developed in these varieties and possibly have not
been documented in naturalistic L2 varieties is perhaps accounted for by the
observation that the circumstances necessary for the development of such
features are very specific and most likely do not often come together.
Finally, in the Spanish varieties spoken by Jenny and Luis there is no noun
classifier, such as Chinese Pidgin English piece, and no bimorphemic wh-
words. These might be expected for different reasons: an equivalent of piece
would be expected due to Chinese having abundant noun classifiers, and the
development of bimorphemic wh-words would be expected because they are
more transparent than monomorphemic wh-words (e.g., what person and
what thing are more transparent than who and what (see Clements and
Mahboob 2000 and Muysken and Smith 1990)). That these two traits are not
found in these varieties of Spanish may have to do with the nature of the input
they received, as well the structure of their own language. Regarding the noun
classifier, there may not have been any particular lexical item in their Spanish
input that lent itself to re-analysis as a noun classifier; or there may have been
one but its use did not further successful communication; or there may be
another reason why it did not emerge as a trait. As for the bimorphemic wh-
words, given that neither Chinese (Li and Thompson 1981:522) nor Spanish
has a system of bimorphemic wh-words, this would arguably militate against
the emergence of these features in their respective varieties, even though
bimorphemic wh-words are more transparent.
156 Chinese Immigrant Spanish
6.4 Concluding remarks
In this chapter, I have examined the untutored varieties of Spanish spoken by
two native Chinese speakers. I concentrated on two areas: their verb systems
and general phonological and morphosyntactic traits. I was able to establish
that the Spanish verb forms that Jenny and Luis use are a function of the input
they receive. This is shown most conclusively by the data in Table 6.6.
I linked this to the forms found in Portuguese- and Spanish-based creoles,
suggesting that the input and intake processes used in the formation of L2
varieties, pidgins, and creoles are similar, and constrained by their input,
which is accessible through analysis of oral corpora. This finding also lends
further support to Klein and Perdue’s (1992) notion of ‘basic variety’ in L2
language varieties.
In my examination of the different traits found in Jenny’s and Luis’ speech,
I found that the individual ecologies of each person accounted for the dif-
ferences. For example, Luis’ speech contains a wider variety of verb forms
than Jenny’s speech. This was accounted for by the constant Spanish-
language input Luis has received from the beginning of his residence in
Madrid at his work place, while in the first several years Jenny had consid-
erably less constant contact with Spanish speakers. More recently, Jenny has
almost exclusive contact with Spanish-language speakers whereas Luis has
maintained his contact with Spanish only in the work place. Consequently,
Luis’ speech exhibits substantially more disfluencies than Jenny’s speech.
Both Jenny and Luis were adults when they came to Spain to work and
neither had any formal instruction in the language. The features that their
respective Spanish varieties display can almost always be accounted for by
similarities to Chinese. However, in Jenny’s speech we witness what I con-
sider to be the emergence of aspectual markers in the use of ya ‘already’ and
the past participial ending -do. While the use of ya is reminiscent of the tense
markers that emerged in some Portuguese-based creoles (see Table 6.6), that
of -do seems to correlate fairly consistently with the use of the Chinese
perfective marker -le. That is, in Jenny’s speech two aspect-marking strat-
egies seem to be present: one a re-analysis of an adverb that often occurs pre-
verbally, and the other a mapping between two suffixes that have comparable
functions, Chinese -le and Spanish -do.
In the next two chapters, I discuss varieties that have different ecologies
from those examined so far, Andean Spanish and Barraquenho, a variety of
Portuguese with notable influence from Extremeño Spanish.
6.4 Concluding remarks 157
7 Andean Spanish
7.1 Introduction
The Americas – North, Central, and South America – were initially populated,
as far as we know, around or before 11,000 BCE by way of the Bering Strait
and Alaska. Although between then and now some contact may have taken
place between South America and Polynesia, and the Norse did reach North
America prior to 1492, such contacts had no major impact on the societies that
developed in the Americas. The ‘collision’ between the Old World and the
New, as Diamond (1999:67) expresses it, began in 1492 with Columbus’
‘discovery’ of the densely populated Caribbean Islands. Diamond speaks of
proximate and immediate causes for the relatively rapid colonization of the
New World by Europeans. In essence, it can be said that disease, superior
weaponry, and the literate culture of the Europeans played decisive roles in the
rapid colonization of South America by the Spanish. Regarding disease,
Diamond (ibid.:67–81) notes that the Spaniards had been exposed to many
diseases from their centuries-long close proximity to domesticated animals.
They had thus developed immunity to diseases which had become endemic
among them; the indigenous populations, on the other hand, had had no exposure
to these diseases and so were decimated in the first New World–European
encounter. As for weaponry, the Incas’ clubs, maces, and hand axes (made of
stone, bronze, and wood), as well as their slingshots and quilted armour, were
no match for the Spanish horses, guns, steel swords, and steel armour. Finally,
although Francisco Pizarro, the conqueror of the Inca Empire and founder of
Lima, Peru, was illiterate, he had a wealth of information at his disposal from
written history, including written accounts of how Cortés defeated Montezuma
in what is now Mexico. Diamond remarks that ‘[f]rom books, the Spaniards
knew of many contemporary civilizations remote from Europe, and about
several thousand years of European history. Pizarro explicitly modelled his
ambush of Atahuallpa [the Inca king] on the successful strategy of Cortés’,
who defeated the Aztec king Montezuma in Mexico (ibid.:80).
Before the Spanish arrived in the Andean region, the linguistic landscape of
the Inca empire was a mosaic of languages spoken by speech communities of
158
different sizes and extensions (Cerrón-Palomino 2003:137–138). However,
the Incas had been successfully consolidating power and had managed to
unify, socio-economically and politically, a vast area of land that encom-
passed primarily Ecuador, Bolivia, and Peru, along with the northern-most
part of Chile and Argentina; they also reached as far northward as southern
Colombia. The Incas had also succeeded in spreading their language,
Quechua, throughout their empire by means of teachers and a cadre of lin-
guistic emissaries they called mitmaq, ‘foreigners’ in Quechua. These mitmaq
(borrowed into Spanish as mitimaes) came from different regions of the
empire to Cuzco to learn the culture and language of the Incas, then to return
to their respective home regions to teach their people Quechua and Incan
culture. The Incas also used as mitmaq vanquished rebels whom they sent to
regions other than their own. Being thus separated from their home and their
language, these rebels were unable to create further rebellions. As a conse-
quence, they ended up aiding the spread of Quechua throughout the Andean
region (Carranza Romero 1993:25).
At the time of the Spanish arrival in Cajamarca (Peru) – where they first
encountered Atahuallpa – the Inca empire was relatively unstable. Atahuallpa
and his army had just won decisive battles in a civil war but the empire was
divided and vulnerable, a situation that Pizarro and his men realized and were
able to exploit. The reason for the civil war in the first place was, as Diamond
(1999:77) observes, ‘that an epidemic of small pox, spreading overland
among South American Indians after its arrival with Spanish settlers in
Panama and Colombia, had killed the Inca emperor Huayna Capac and most
of his court around 1526, and then immediately killed the designated heir,
Ninan Cuyuchi. Those deaths precipitated a contest for the throne between
Atahuallpa and his half brother Huascar. If it had not been for the epidemic,
the Spaniards would have faced a united empire.’
The collapse of the Inca empire and the subsequent, albeit gradual and
modest, introduction of Spanish into the region through colonization created a
distinct type of diglossic situation that even now has not reached a balance.
To be sure, there was enormous linguistic diversity in the Andean region prior
to the presence of Spanish, but as Cerrón-Palomino (2003:138–139) notes, all
these languages shared the same general oral tradition and largely the same
conceptual world, which was the product of cultural synthesis that had been
developing for millennia. By contrast, the introduction of Spanish language
and culture into the Andean region created a profoundly asymmetrical lin-
guistic hierarchy: ‘not only because the language [Spanish] was the carrier of
a highly developed technology, whose adoption rendered the subjugated
societies suddenly archaic, but also because [. . .] it was equipped with an
instrument that made it even more powerful and efficient: its writing system.
With such a system, the indigenous languages were in no condition to hold
7.1 Introduction 159
their own in the situation brought on by the conquest’ (Cerrón-Palomino
2003:139; my translation).
Although the attitude of the Spaniards towards the indigenous cultures in
the Andean region was one of general contempt, for both their gods and their
languages, Quechua did become known as lengua general because it was so
widespread and knowledge of it was useful to the Spanish for purposes of
general communication and evangelization.1
After the conquest, Quechua
was taken to other places by missionaries, explorers, and yanaconas ‘black
slaves’, places where it had not reached during the Inca empire, including
Santiago de Estero in Argentina and the southern part of Colombia (Carranza
Romero 1993:35).
In the next section, I give an idea of how Spanish and Quechua co-existed
in two areas in the Andean region, in terms of numbers of inhabitants and
maintenance of the two languages.
7.2 The external ecology of two areas in the Andean region
There is no consensus regarding the size of the population of the Inca empire
(primarily Ecuador, Bolivia, and Peru) just prior to the Spanish invasion and
conquest. Difficulties in arriving at an accurate estimate arise from a dearth
of data and a lack of knowledge about the effects of disease on the area.
Denevan (1992:xxv) states that a recent range of population estimates for the
Inca empire in 1520 is from 2.03 million to 14 million, but that by 1620 there
remained approximately only 670,000 natives in Peru. This decline was
apparently not only due to disease. Sánchez-Albornoz (1974:54) cites reports
from González and Mellafe (1965) which state that birth rates among Andean
people in the Huánuco region dropped from six per family to two and a half
after the arrival of the Spaniards. It is likely that the trend was also present in
other regions of the Inca empire as well, since it is known to have been
common in other Spanish colonies, such as among the Taı́nos and Ciboneys
in Cuba (see chapter 4, as well as Masó 1976:20).
As is typically the case in colonial situations, the ‘rules of the language
game’, as Cerrón-Palomino (2003:140) describes them, were set: the van-
quished were the ones obliged to speak the language of the conquerors.
However, in the initial period of the Spanish colonization of the Andean
region, there were significant exceptions, accounted for by practical rather
1
The term lengua general should not be confused with the Portuguese term lingua geral
‘common language’ which refers to two varieties of Tupi, both of which were re-structured
versions of languages spoken by the Tupi people in Brazil. When Portuguese colonizers
reached the area in the sixteenth century, they were confronted with an indigenous population
that spoke many languages. The two varieties of lingua geral were used in the Jesuit missions
and by early colonists as a means to speak with the indigenous population.
160 Andean Spanish
than policy-driven reasons (ibid.:141). Given the facts that in the beginning of
the colonization there was a lack of Quechua–Spanish interpreters and that
Quechua was already the lengua general of a vast area, the Spanish realized
that it was the logical vehicle for evangelization. In 1580, so that priests could
be instructed in indigenous languages, Philip II ordered that two university
chairs be established, one for Nahuatl in Mexico and another for Quechua in
Lima. On 19 September 1580, the king emphasized this in his comment to the
Audiencia of Quito (the predecessor to the judiciary) that the Lima chair had
been instituted so that no priest would receive ordination without knowing the
lengua general (Torre Revello 1962:507–508).
But despite this support, as well as earlier efforts discussed in the pro-
vincial councils of 1551 and 1567 to use native languages for the evangel-
ization mission, there were also some people who favoured the use of
Castilian over the native languages. For example, on 7 June 1550, Charles V
issued the first law regarding the teaching of Castilian:
As one of the main things that We wish for the well-being of that land is the salvation
and instruction and conversion to our holy Catholic faith of its indigenous population
and that they also adopt our policy and good customs; and regarding the means that
could be had for this goal it has seemed that one of them and the main one would be to
give the order that those people be taught our Castilian language because it is known,
they could be indoctrinated with greater ease in the matters of the Holy Gospel and
obtain everything else that is right for them for their way of life. (Torre Revello
1962:511; my translation)2
In 1586, the Spanish crown ordered the viceroy of Peru to force the indi-
genous population to learn Castilian, which was followed by a royal decree in
1590. In light of the paltry results of priests learning lengua general, additional
royal decrees calling for the Castilianization of the natives were issued in 1605,
1634, and 1686 with the justification that the ‘holy mysteries of the faith’ could
not be taught in the indigenous languages. A royal decree issued in 1690 also
suggested that natives who knew how to speak and write Castilian could be
considered for posts such as governors, mayors, scribes, and so forth.
The eighteenth century is characterized as one of total support for the
Castilianization of the native population. After the confrontation with and
defeat of Tupac Amaru in 1780–1781, laws were issued against the Quechua
language and culture (Carranza Romero 1993:28–30). Even though the
2
The original reads: ‘Como una de la principales cosas que Nos deseamos para el bien de esa
tierra es la salvación y instrucción y conversión a nuestra santa fe católica de los naturales de
ella y que también tomen nuestra policı́a y buenas costumbres; y ası́ tratando de los medios
para este fin se podrı́an tener, ha parecido que uno de ellos y el más principal serı́a dar orden
como a esas gentes se les enseñase nuestra lengua castellana, porque sabida está, con más
facilidad podrı́an ser doctrinados en las cosas del Santo Evangelio y conseguir todo lo demás
que les conviene para su manera de vivir.’
7.2 The external ecology of the Andean region areas 161
nineteenth century ushered in the independence of the countries in the
Andean region, on the whole the indigenous populations did not receive any
benefits until around the second half of the twentieth century, when the period
known as indigenismo ‘indigenism’ began. During this period, for example,
Quechua was made an official national language in Peru (1975), theoretically
on equal footing with Spanish, although this was not followed up with the
necessary language planning. Peru’s General Education Law of 1982 made it
clear that language planning involving indigenous languages was just a means
of ultimately teaching students Spanish: ‘In the communities whose language
is not Spanish this education in the native language was to be initiated with a
tendency towards Castilianization in order to consolidate in the student the
socio-cultural characteristics that correspond to modern society’ (ibid.: 33;
my translation).3
Despite the centuries-long attempt to Castilianize the Andean region,
various factors have contributed to its failure. Among them, Rivarola
(1989:155, 160) notes the disproportion in numbers between indigenous
language speakers and native Spanish speakers and the fact that the manner of
colonization itself, oriented exclusively towards the exploitation of indigen-
ous labour (especially for work in the mines), made impossible the inter-
ethnic contact necessary for generalized bilingualism. This type of relation
with the Spaniards and their language put the learning of Spanish out of reach
for the indigenous masses of the Andean region.
From early on, there are examples of approximative systems of Spanish in
the region. Cerrón-Palomino (2003:135–170) comments in detail on the case
of Francisco Tito Yupanqui, a sculptor known for, among other things, his
sculpture of the Virgin of Copacabana. Yupanqui left a document, written in
his own hand, about his experiences of being ridiculed by the colonizers
because of his artistic work. In this letter, we find systematic confusion of
/e/–/i/ and /o/–/u/, devoicing of /d/ and /g/, cases of analogy such as sabı́-
bamos (formed by analogy with ı́bamos, instead of sabı́amos ‘we knew’), and
systematic occurrences of certain morphosyntactic phenomena, among which
Cerrón-Palomino mentions three: the favouring of the masculine (and sin-
gular) suffixes in cases of agreement (see (7.1)), the neutralization of the
object-pronominal system to the masculine singular lo (see (7.2)) and the use
of lo with copulative and certain intransitive verbs, such as ser–estar ‘be’,
parecer ‘seem’, ir ‘go’, venir ‘come’, salı́r ‘leave’, entrar ‘enter’, llegar
‘arrive’, and reı́r ‘laugh’, sometimes called false-pronominalization (see
3
The original reads: ‘En las comunidades cuya lengua no es el castellano se debe iniciar esta
educación en la lengua autóctona con tendencia a la castellanización progresiva a fin de
consolidar en el educando sus caracterı́sticas socio-culturales con las que son propias de la
sociedad moderna.’
162 Andean Spanish
(7.3)). Cerrón-Palomino notes that these same phenomena are still found
today in the Andean highlands and in north-west Argentina.
(7.1a) determiner-masc noun-fem (ibid.:168)
il mañana ‘the morning’
el celda ‘the cell’
el falta ‘the mistake’
el pintadura ‘the painting’
un petición ‘a request’
el Santa Vergen ‘the Holy Virgin’
estes obra ‘these works’
todos los gentes ‘all the people’
(7.1b) noun modifier-mascfem (ibid.)
imagen bueno ‘good image’
hichora [. . .] bueno ‘good creation’  hichora [. . .] mala ‘bad creation’
imagen acabado, blanqueado ‘finished, whitened image’
Vergen pentada ‘painted Virgin’
(7.2a) noun phrase þ lo þ verb (ibid.)
Al Vergen el patre lo estaba aguardando.
obj-the.masc.do Virgin the priest 3sg.masc.do was awaiting
‘The priest was awaiting the Virgin.’
(7.2b) lo þ verb þ noun phrase
Lo llevé un Emagen del Vergen pentada.
3sg.masc.do took-1sg an image of-the.masc Virgin painted
‘I took a painted image of the Virgin.’
(7.3a) para que lo seays pentor
for that 3sg.masc.do be.pres.sub-2pl painter
‘so that you may be a painter’
(7.3b) el Imagen [. . .] lo parece como hombre.
the.masc image 3sg.masc.do seems like man
‘The image seems like a man.’
(7.3c) Lo vino otro padre.
3sg.masc.do came.3sg other father
‘Another priest came.’
The mismatch in agreement phenomena illustrated in (7.1) is arguably due to
the speaker being a native speaker of Quechua and having learned Spanish as a
second language. Quechua does not have gender agreement; for its part, the
number agreement (not always obligatory in Quechua) follows a different set of
rules from those for Spanish. In subject–verb agreement, for example, there is
obligatory agreement in first person (7.4), obligatory or optional agreement in
second person (7.5), and entirely optional agreement in third person (see (7.6),
where-kuisoptional) (seeCerrón-Palomino1987:273–274;2003:156).
(7.4) ñuqa-nchik miku-nchik.
1poss-pl.poss eat-pl.poss
‘We eat.’
7.2 The external ecology of the Andean region areas 163
(7.5) qam-kuna miku-nki-chik.
2poss-pl eat-2.pres-poss
‘You all eat.’
(7.6) pay-kuna miku-n-(ku).
3-pl eat-3-(pl)
‘They eat.’
With regard to the systematic use of the masculine singular for object
pronominalization, Cerrón-Palomino (2003:156) comments on the coherency
of pronominal use in the speech of this sculptor: where there was a choice,
Francisco Tito Yupanqui chose for the most part nominal and pronominal
forms in -o, without plural. As for pseudo-pronominalization, Cerrón-
Palomino notes that the phenomenon is found only in Andean Spanish, even
in those areas where Quechua is no longer spoken. He sees this aspect-
marking use of lo as possibly a calque of the Quechua aspectual marker -l?u
in some dialects and the analogous -pu in others (see Nardi 1976 and Mid-
dendorf 1970, cited in Cerrón-Palomino 2003:158–159).
All these traits, Cerrón-Palomino (2003:160–161) emphasizes, are not only
found in L2 Spanish of Quechua native speakers, but also in areas such as
Mantaro Valley and north-west Argentina that are completely ‘dequechui-
zadas’, i.e., entirely monolingual Spanish areas. In other words, these phe-
nomena now characterize certain varieties of monolingual Andean Spanish.
I address this below in more detail.
Rivarola (1989) states that colonial documentation is replete with almost
three centuries of testimony (from the seventeenth to the nineteenth centuries)
regarding the lack of Spanish proficiency in the vast majority of the indi-
genous population. In the nineteenth century, he mentions the first testimony
from linguists regarding the nature of Andean Spanish. Responding to a
request in 1883 by Hugo Schuchardt, the well-known nineteenth-century
linguist considered by some to be the father of creole linguistics, the South
American philologist Rufino Cuervo answered questions regarding the variety
of Spanish spoken in the Andean region. Rufino Cuervo responded that in
places such as Quito, Quechua was almost the only language heard in the
markets, that large property-owners had to know Quechua to function in
society, and furthermore that he did not think that the Spanish of the region
was a dialect but rather the equivalent of an L2 variety, in the sense of an
inter-language. However, Rivarola (ibid.:157–158) provides evidence of a
distinct, monolingual Andean dialect, found in Spanish-language documents
of Spanish aristocrats that exhibit many of the same traits illustrated in the
examples in (7.1–7.3). He also mentions the migration from rural areas to the
cities that took place during the second half of the twentieth century, with the
result that in capitals such as Lima Quechua was ever present in the street
164 Andean Spanish
markets, full of merchants from the highland, which were Quechua-speaking
areas.
With the more recent migration of Quechua speakers to urban areas, new
identities have begun to emerge. This is reflected, arguably, in the unique
variety of Spanish spoken by these people. The ‘informal’ Spanish, as
Rivarola (1989:158) calls it, is used by a multitude of Andean bilinguals who
‘are in an accelerated process of acculturation and in search of a new form of
social and cultural identity’. He continues by noting that this process is
happening at a pace that over time will have linguistic repercussions difficult
to stop by ‘the normative dikes of Standard Spanish’.
The above allusions to the enormous majority of indigenous people in the
Andean region are borne out by census statistics. I have selected two places
from the region to illustrate this, one in Peru (Mantaro Valley), and the other
in north-west Argentina (Salta), both mentioned by Cerrón-Palomino.
First, to give a general idea of the population distribution in an Andean
country, I have selected Peru, for which I show the data from the 1878 census
that distinguish between different ethnic groups in the population (Table 7.1).
The total counted population in Peru in 1878, including whites, Indians, blacks,
mestizos, and Asians, comes out to 2,630,387. The indigenous population at
that time made up 58.2 per cent of the Peruvian population; the mixed-race
population was next with 25.5 per cent. Whites made up only 14 per cent of the
total number of inhabitants in Peru then, and the Asians and blacks each
comprised less than 2 per cent of the population. It is clear, then, that the
indigenous and the mixed population, those who spoke and/or understood
Quechua, made up over 80 per cent of the Peruvian population at that time.
Mantaro Valley is located in the department of Junı́n. Table 7.2 compares
the percentages of the different ethnic groups in the country as a whole, and
those in Junı́n. Noteworthy is that while the relative distributional tendencies
of the ethnic groups in Junı́n and Peru as a country were comparable in 1878,
Junı́n had slightly higher Indian and mestizo populations relative to the
national averages at that time. From this distribution, we can assume that in
1878 Quechua was most likely the dominant, if not the exclusive, language
spoken in Junı́n, especially in rural areas.
In the twentieth century, the percentage of monolingual Quechua speakers
experienced a steady decrease. In Junı́n, for instance, the percentage of
monolingual Quechua speakers went from 42 per cent in 1940 to 12 per cent
in 1961 (Censos nacionales 1968, III). Table 7.3 shows the distribution of
speakers according to their mother language or dialect for Junı́n as a whole, as
well as for the provinces of Huancayo, Concepción, and Jauja, where Mantaro
Valley is located. The number of Quechua speakers relative to others is low in
Junı́n as compared to the national average. According to the census figures
from Peru (Table 7.4) cited in A.M. Escobar (2000:30), 52 per cent of the
7.2 The external ecology of the Andean region areas 165
population were monolingual Quechua speakers throughout Peru in 1961, far
higher than the 26 per cent of speakers in Junı́n with Quechua as their mother
tongue. And even though the statistics in Tables 7.3 and 7.4 do not measure
exactly the same thing (speakers with Quechua as their mother tongue vs
Table 7.1. Census data from Peru, 1878, by ethnic group
Department Whites
Indigenous
population
(Indians) Blacks
European–Indian
mixed-race people
(mestizos) Asians
Ancachs 18706 132792 2453 126904 3975
Apurimac 14427 64681 96 39306 15
Arequipa 19878 68056 2887 35175 1050
Ayacucho 18427 102827 311 20607 43
Cajamarca 59774 73806 1051 78809 357
Callao 13439 8228 2646 8705 1474
Cuzco 22109 182904 417 37555 47
Huancavelica 9682 80923 161 12291 12
Huanuco 8182 47241 343 23143 82
Ica 5529 33188 5380 11236 5022
Junı́n 8728 129475 472 70910 174
Lambayeque 8127 48599 2683 23242 4087
Libertad 17071 57857 2467 61125 8816
Lima 50761 99764 15404 35581 24290
Loreto 10479 29749 110 21540 27
Moquegua 5956 19041 621 2581 586
Piura 13930 79792 3860 37965 74
Puno 8278 239161 224 11749 37
Tacna 7469 21807 1299 5210 222
Tarapaca 12918 11686 564 6766 791
Totals 333870
(12.7%)
1531577
(58.2%)
43449
(1.7%)
670400
(25.5%)
51181
(20%)
Table 7.2. Comparison of the population
distribution in Peru and Junı́n in 1878
Peru Junı́n
Indians 57% 61.7%
Mestizos 25% 33.8%
Whites 14% 4.2%
Blacks 2% 0.2%
Asians 2% 0.1%
166 Andean Spanish
monolingual Quechua speakers), it is clear that the Quechua speakers referred
to in Table 7.3 could be mono- or bilingual and are far fewer than the national
average in 1961.
Table 7.4 also indicates that the percentage of monolingual Quechua
speakers is decreasing while that of Quechua–Spanish bilinguals is increas-
ing. That is, in the Peru of 1940, two-thirds of the population were mono-
lingual Quechua speakers. By 1989, however, the percentage of monolingual
Quechua speakers had decreased to less than half (40 per cent).
Late in the twentieth century, the decrease of Quechua speakers had a
significant impact upon Junin department, affecting both the urban and rural
populations. In the 1972 and 1993 censuses, the percentage of people five
years and older who claimed Spanish as their mother tongue increased by
more than 20 percentage points in urban areas (67.6% to 89%) and more than
30 in rural areas (43.5% to 74.3%). Conversely, people five years and older
Table 7.3. Speakers five years and older in Junı́n department, and in
Huancayo, Concepción, and Jauja provinces (located in Junı́n department),
according to their mother language or dialect
1961 Junı́n Huancayo Concepción Jauja
department province province province
Per cent (raw no.) Per cent (raw no.) Per cent (raw no.) Per cent (raw no.)
Aboriginal 33.5% (145,571) 57.9% (95,531) 40.8% (16,173) 18.1% (14,549)
Aymara 0.1% (723) 0.2% (330) 0.1% (32) 0.1% (104)
Quechua 20% (112,767) 16.6% (27,393) 16.6% (6,589) 21.2% (16,952)
Spanish 39.0% (169,281) 24.1% (39,852) 40.9% (16,213) 59.1% (47,313)
Other langs. 0.5% (1,623) 0.4% (664) 0.1% (55) 0.2% (170)
No entry 0.9% (3,976) 0.8% (1,308) 1.5% (587) 1.3% (1,029)
Total 100% (433,941) 100% (165,078) 100% (39,649) 100% (80,117)
Table 7.4. Relative percentages of the Quechua–Spanish-speaking
population and the monolingual Quechua-speaking population from 1940
to 1989 in Peru
1940 1961 1972 1981 1989
Quechua–
Spanish
33%
(816,967)
48%
(1,293,322)
57%
(1,715,004)
60%
(2,979,347)
60%
(3,602,006)
Monolingual
Quechua
67%
(1,625,156)
52%
(1,389,195)
43%
(1,311,062)
40%
(2,025,225)
40%
(2,364,507)
Source: A. M. Escobar 2000:30.
7.2 The external ecology of the Andean region areas 167
claiming Quechua as their mother tongue declined by around 10 percentage
points in urban areas and around 25 percentage points in rural areas. The
statistics are shown in Table 7.5.
In Table 7.6, the distribution is shown of speakers in 1993 in the three
provinces where Mantaro Valley is located. Quechua native speakers have all
but disappeared in Jauja province (4.16 per cent), whereas in Concepción
there are just over 10 per cent remaining and in Huancayo the figure is just
over 15 per cent. This is the situation to which Cerrón-Palomino (2003)
refers: in Mantaro Valley Quechua has been overtaken by Spanish to a great
extent. Yet, as Cerrón-Palomino convincingly argues, while Spanish has
overtaken Quechua in terms of the lexicon, many key Quechua structures
remain in place, incorporated into the Spanish of the area. I will discuss these
structures below.
The second monolingual area to be discussed here, also historically
Quechua-speaking at the time the Spaniards arrived, is the Salta province in
north-western Argentina. Up to the fifteenth century, the Calchakı́ language
constituted a major cultural and linguistic presence in Salta province, espe-
cially in the southern valleys of Salta. The Incas conquered Salta starting in
1480, ‘establishing their political and economic dominance, as well as a
noteworthy communications system with roads and supply centres on the
routes that united Peru and Bolivia with the north and west of Argentina and
with Chile, protected in strategic locations by forts’ (Censo nacional 1980:xii;
my translation). Just prior to the Spanish conquest of the region, what is now
the north-west of Argentina was the most densely populated area of the whole
Table 7.5. Distribution of speakers five years and older in urban and rural
areas of Junı́n department in the 1972 and 1993 censuses, according to
their mother language or dialect
Department
Junı́n department,
1972 urban
Junı́n department,
1972 rural
Junı́n department,
1993 urban
Junı́n department,
1993 rural
Language
Percentage
(Raw no.)
Percentage
(Raw no.)
Percentage
(Raw no.)
Percentage
(Raw no.)
Quechua 18.9% (71,609) 43.5% (101,087) 9.6% (57,193) 18.5% (55,996)
Spanish 67.6% (256,035) 43.4% (100,944) 89.1% (531,738) 74.3% (225,217)
Aymara 0.1% (290) 0.1% (209) 0.4% (2,287) 0.3% (934)
Aboriginal 11.5% (43,414) 11.8% (27,443) 0.3% (1,813) 5.9% (17,851)
Other langs. 0.2% (825) 0.1% (137) 0.1% (363) 0.02% (90)
No entry 1.7% (6,360) 1.1% (2,517) 0.6% (3,398) 1.0% (3,004)
Total 100% (378,533) 100% (232,337) 100% (596,792) 100% (303,092)
Note: Totals may not equal 100 because of rounding.
168 Andean Spanish
country, with 48 per cent (an estimated 195,000 of 403,000) of the population
(Censo nacional 1980:xii).4
The Spanish colonization of Salta proceeded from Peru, and by 1582 the
area was under Spanish rule. The Spanish crown generally followed the
process of urban colonization in South America, especially in the Andean
region, and Argentina was no exception. That is, the primary linguistic and
cultural impact of the Spanish colonization was found in the cities such as
Salta. The majority of the population, however, lived in rural areas. For
example, in 1778 the city of Salta had 4,305 or 37 per cent of the residents of
the province, while the other 7,260 (63 per cent) residents lived in the
countryside. By 1801, the urban–rural population distribution, at 5,093 (38
per cent) and 8,435 (62 per cent) respectively, had not changed appreciably
(Censo nacional 1980:liv).
Regarding the ethnic distribution of the population in Salta province, we
have figures only for 1778, given in Table 7.7. The indigenous population at
that time made up 27% of the total number of inhabitants in the province,
nearly the same percentage as the whites (28%). In contrast, there were
46% Africans, which included Africans proper as well as mulattos (African-
Europeans), and zambos (African-Amerindians).5
Table 7.6. Speakers five years and older in Huancayo, Concepción, and
Jauja provinces (in Junı́n department) in 1993, according to their mother
language or dialect
Province Junı́n Dept.
Huancayo 1993
Junı́n Dept.
Concepción 1993
Junı́n Dept.
Jauja 1993
Language Percentage (Raw no.) Percentage (Raw no.) Percentage (Raw no.)
Quechua 16.0% (61,552) 11.6% (6,448) 4.2% (3,804)
Spanish 82.6% (318,531) 87.1% (48,570) 95.0% (86,848)
Aymara 0.3% (1,322) 0.3% (151) 0.1% (63)
Aboriginal 0.4% (1,674) 0.1% (58) 0.1% (126)
Other langs. 0.1% (188) 0.04% (22) 0.03% (30)
No entry 0.6% (2,231) 0.9% (529) 0.6% (542)
Total 100% (385,498) 100% (55,778) 100% (91,413)
Note: Totals may not equal 100 because of rounding.
4
It is not clear what the exact relationship was between Quechua and the language spoken by the
Calchakies. Their language was part of the Cacán language group that became extinct between
1650 and 1700.
5
In censuses subsequent to 1778 in Argentina, the categories of indigenous ethnicity are not
included.
7.2 The external ecology of the Andean region areas 169
At that time, the Salta area was connected administratively to the mining
centre of Potosı́, located north of Salta in what is currently Bolivia. The
substantial presence of Africans, mulattos, and zambos in the Salta region was
due to the labour needs of that area. Specifically, members of these com-
munities worked in the mines, as well as on the mule trains which connected
the Potosı́ mines and Tucumán, south of Salta (Fernández Lávaque and del
Valle Rodas 1998:18).
Unfortunately, the nineteenth- and twentieth-century Argentinean censuses
do not contain information regarding indigenous populations and their lan-
guages. This gap was not addressed until 1985, the year in which Salta
completed the first indigenous census for its province. Although the study was
never published, Fernández Lávaque and del Valle Rodas (1998:28–29)
report some of the findings, one of which is that the indigenous population of
Salta in 1985 constituted less than 3 per cent of the population of the pro-
vince. These authors report (ibid.:31) that Quechua has probably not been
spoken by original Salta inhabitants since the middle of the twentieth century
at the latest. Nevertheless, as in the case of Mantaro Valley, the Spanish
spoken in Salta contains numerous key structures from Quechua. In the next
section, I examine some of these monolingual Spanish traits found in the
speech of the inhabitants of Mantaro Valley (Peru) and Salta (Argentina).
What becomes apparent is the considerable similarity in these native varieties
of Spanish, although they have developed independently. The link, of course,
is the historical presence in both areas of sizeable numbers of Quechua
speakers. That is, the Quechua features were strongly represented in terms of
number of speakers in the areas in question. What is crucial is that, in each
area, the Quechua speakers learning Spanish, independently of one another,
often came up with similar to identical solutions in mapping Quechua
structures on to the Spanish lexicon.
Table 7.7. Population distribution of whites, indigenous
people, and blacks in 1778 in Salta province
Ethnicity
Percentage
(raw numbers)
Blacks, mulattos, and zambos 46% (5,305)
Whites 28% (3,190)
Indigenous people 27% (3,070)
Total 100% (11,565)
Note: Mulattos are of mixed African and European descent; zambos
are African-Amerindians. The total does not equal 100 because of
rounding.
170 Andean Spanish
7.3. Some key linguistic traits of Andean Spanish in rural
Mantaro Valley (Peru) and in Salta province (Argentina)
The Andean contact situation involves differing degrees of bilingualism in
languages that are typological opposites – Spanish is a prepositional, inflec-
tional SVO language while Quechua is a post-positional agglutinative SOV
language. Thus, the feature pool created in areas of Spanish–Quechua contact
contains a wide range of typologically diverse features, though not equally
represented over the centuries, as we can deduce from the demographic
information discussed in the previous section. That is, it is to be expected that
a substantial number of Quechua-language features would find their way into
the Spanish of the area during those centuries in which Quechua was the
dominant language in terms of numbers of speakers. We will see that
this expectation is borne out: the Spanish of these highland regions where
Quechua was dominant exhibits many particularities not found in other
varieties of Spanish. This state of affairs is also consistent with interference
through shift, whereby features from the native language of the shifting
speakers (Quechua) are carried into the target language (Spanish). Import-
antly, Quechua Spanish also contains unique features not shared with other
Spanish varieties. Before discussing the features of monolingual Andean
Spanish, I need to point out some key features of Quechua in order to have a
better understanding of the nature of the feature pool present in the Quechua–
Spanish contact situation.
7.3.1 Some key linguistic features of Quechua
Quechua is divided into two main language groups: Quechua I, spoken
in central Peru, and Quechua II, found in southern Colombia, Ecuador and
the non-central parts of Peru, as well as in Bolivia, northern Argentina,
and northern Chile (Cerrón-Palomino 1987:226; Haboud 1998:32). Both
Quechua I and Quechua II have a three-vowel system (/a, i, u/), although in
both groups [e] and [o] are found as allophones of /i/ and /u/, respectively.
In the Quechua proto-vowel system, the same three vowels (but without
phonemically long vowels) are also assumed (Cerrón Palomino 1987:128). In
Quechua I dialects and some Quechua II dialects, long vs short vowel length
is distinctive.
Regarding consonants, the same consonantal system is not shared by all
Quechua varieties. Cerrón-Palomino (1987:128) shows the reconstructed
proto-consonantal system of Quechua, reproduced in Table 7.8. For his
part, Adelaar (1992) posits a distinction between /r/ and /
r/, whereas Cerrón-
Palomino (1987:128) does not acknowledge this distinction. The reason may
be due to what Weber (1989:450) observes for Huanco Quechua, namely, that
7.3 Some key linguistic traits of Andean Spanish 171
the grapheme rr actually represents the retroflex fricative [
_
z
], which is an
allophone in this variety for /
r/. This information is incorporated into
Table 7.8. The consonant inventory in Cuzco Quechua, shown in Table 7.9,
has been influenced by Aymara in the three-way distinction among the
voiceless stops and by Spanish in /f/, /l/, and voiced stops. Stress assignment
is on the penult in almost all words in both Quechua groups, and reduction of
unstressed vowels is common. The general syllable structure of Quechua is V,
VC, CV, CVC, whereby V and VC are found only word-initially, though in
some dialects word-initial V and VC are preceded by a glottal stop. Syllables
of the type CCV or VCC are not allowed (see also Zúñiga 1974:97–99 and
Feke 2004:176). Examples from Junı́n Quechua are given in (7.7).
Table 7.8. The reconstructed consonant inventory of proto-Quechua
Labial Alveolar Alveo-palatal Retroflex Velar Uvular Glottal
Stops p t č ĉ k q
Fricatives s š (_
z) h
Nasals m n ñ
Vibrants
Flap r
Laterals
Glides w y
Source: Cerrón-Palomino 1987: 128.
Table 7.9. The consonant inventory of Cuzco Quechua
Labial Alveolar Alveo-palatal Velar Uvular
Stops
Voiceless
Plain p t č k q
Aspirated ph
th
čh
kh
qh
Glottalized p’ t’ č’ k’ q’
Voiced (b) (d) (g)
Fricatives (f) s š h x
Nasals m n ñ
Vibrants
Flap r rr
Laterals l
Glides w y
172 Andean Spanish
(7.7) V: [a-ma] ‘no’
VC: [ut-ka] ‘cotton’
CV: [ča-ki] ‘dry’
CVC: [pam-pa] ‘plain’
Quechua’s morphology is agglutinative, suffixal, and highly complex, but
extremely regular (Adelaar 1992:306). Three suffix types are distinguished,
derivational, flexional, and independent: the first type appears closest to the
root, followed by the flexional and the independent types, in that order.
The sentence in (7.8) illustrates the order of derivational and inflectional
suffixes.
(7.8) wasi -nna? -kuna
house without pl
‘the ones without (a) home’ (Cerrón-Palomino 1987:264)
In Quechua, nna? ‘without’ is a derivational suffix and it appears closer to the
noun than -kuna, the plural marker.6
In (7.9), we see that independent suffixes in
Quechua appear outside inflectional suffixes. Quechua overtly marks the per-
spective of the speaker as to whether an event is directly witnessed or not. Thus,
an event can be overtly marked in Quechua as being first-hand knowledge,
received through an intermediary as second-hand knowledge, or as conjecture.
For example, with regard to the speaker’s perspective of the situation, the
proposition ‘it will die’ can be expressed three different ways (from Weber
1989:421; see also Cerrón-Palomino 1987:266–267). In a situation in which a
diviner is commenting on possible death of something in a given situation,
(7.9a) expresses that the diviner himself asserts the proposition, (7.9b) expresses
that someone is reporting on the diviner’s prediction, and (7.9c) expresses
that perhaps the entity referred to in the proposition may die. Note that the
suffixes -mi, -shi, and -chi appear outside the person and tense markers.
(7.9a) Wanu-nqa-paq-mi.
die-3fut-fut-evid.1st.hand
(7.9b) Wanu-nqa-paq-shi.
die-3fut-fut-evid.2nd.hand
(7.9c) Wanu-nqa-paq-chi.
die-3fut-fut-evid.conj
As expected, there are derivational and flexional suffixes for both nominal
and verbal roots (ibid.:261–262). Case marking has the nominative–accusative
pattern and is marked with suffixes (see 7.10), and number on nouns is marked
with -kuna ‘plural’, as seen above.
6
The symbol /?/ represents a glottal stop.
7.3 Some key linguistic traits of Andean Spanish 173
With regard to syntax, Quechua exhibits SOV (7.10) and modifier-head
order (7.11).
(7.10) Hwan Tumas-ta maqa-n.
Hwan Tumas-obj hit-3
‘Hwan hits Tumas.’ (adapted from Weber 1989:14, ex. 13)
(7.11a) hatun runa (adj-N)
big man
‘big man’ (ibid.:17, ex. 16)
(7.11b) Hwan-pa wasi-n (possessor-possessed)
Hwan-gen house-3sg.poss
‘Hwan’s house’ (adapted from ibid.:254, ex. 1028)
(7.11c) chay ishkay hatun wasi-kuna (Det/Numeral-N)
that two big house-pl
‘those two big houses’ (adapted from ibid.:17, ex. 17)
(7.11d) sumaq wira waaka (Deg-Adj)
very fat cow
‘a/the very fat cow’ (ibid.:17, ex. 19)
(7.11e) Weqruyllapa purin (Adv-VP)
limpingly he.walks
‘He walks with a limp.’ (ibid.:17, ex. 20)
The word orders displayed in (7.10) and (7.11a, c, e) are default rather than
rigid orders in Quechua. That is, other orders are not uncommon, dictated
by pragmatic factors, such as topicality, emphasis, etc. Note that there is
no number (7.11c) or gender agreement between modifier and head. How-
ever, there is person agreement, which involves possessive suffixes, an
example of which is given in (7.12): we find agreement between qam-kuna
‘2-pl’ and -yki ‘2’.
(7.12) qam-kuna -p wasi -yki -kuna (Quechua I)
2-pl gen house 2 pl
‘your houses’
Quechua possesses some interesting complex-verb constructions, some of
which seem like serial verb constructions. One such construction involves the
suffix -shpa (-spa), called by some a gerund suffix (Grajeda Challco and Vela
Flores 1976:145; Catta Quelen 1987:170), by others a same-actor subordinator
(sa.sub) (Carpenter 1982:253), and by still others an adverbial clause marker
(Weber 1989:298). Examples are given in (7.13)–(7.15).
(7.13) Quechua II B (Carpenter 1982:253)
pay-ta saki-shpa sham-rka-ni
3pl-acc leave-sa.sub come-personal.knowledge.past-1s
‘I came, leaving them (at the house).’
174 Andean Spanish
(7.14) Quechua II C from north-west Argentina
Imata ruwa-spa kiča-rqu-n wasi-y-ta?
what do-sa.sub open-past-3s house-poss-acc
[lit. what xi doing, xi has opened my house]
‘How has he opened my house?’
(adapted from Fernández Lávaque and del Valle Rodas
1998:105)
(7.15) ‘integrated’ Quechua
taki-spa hamu-rqa-ni.
sing-sa.sub come-past-1s
‘I came singing.’ (‘come’ pertains during the whole event, ‘sing’ doesn’t)
(Grajeda Challco and Vela Flores 1976:145; cf. -rqa in
Weber 1989:99)
As Carpenter notes, with the suffix -shpa (or -spa) the subject remains the
same for the two verbs in the complex construction and the actions denoted
by the verbs in each sentence are sequential.
With this brief overview of some of the salient features of Quechua, I will
now turn to a characterization of some Andean Spanish features in the
Spanish of Mantaro Valley (Peru) and Salta (Argentina).
7.3.2 Some salient linguistic features of monolingual Andean Spanish
Various scholars who work specifically on Andean Spanish distinguish,
among others, between the Spanish variety spoken by those Quechua native
speakers who are L2 transitional speakers, on the one hand, and the Spanish
variety spoken by Spanish monolinguals and some Quechua–Spanish bilin-
guals, on the other (A. Escobar 1978; A. M. Escobar 2000; Cerrón-Palomino
2003).7
Cerrón-Palomino (2003:26–28) goes so far as to consider certain
varieties of monolingual Andean Spanish, such as the one spoken by rural
inhabitants of Mantaro Valley, a quasi-creole in the sense that it exhibits a
lexicon from Spanish but takes many of its grammatical features from
Quechua. Because I will return to this point below, suffice it to say for now
that the use of the term creole by Cerrón-Palomino here is non-canonical
given that creole languages are by definition also substantially reduced var-
ieties of their respective lexifier languages, especially in terms of morph-
ology. For the present study, I assume the proposed distinction between L2
transitional Andean Spanish and Andean Spanish as spoken natively by
monolinguals and bilinguals. As will become evident, natively spoken
Andean Spanish of different areas may exhibit variable restructuring, having
7
A. Escobar (1978, cited in A.M. Escobar 2000:42) distinguishes among three varieties of Spanish
in Peru:coastal Spanish, Andean Spanish,and interlect Spanish, anL2 Spanishvariety considered
a social dialect and spoken by asymmetrical bilinguals in the area, specifically, L1 Aymara and
Quechua speakers who are in the process of learning Spanish as a second language.
7.3 Some key linguistic traits of Andean Spanish 175
traits in common (independently of one another), but also displaying differ-
ences from one another as well, from one speech community to another.
In chapter 1, I cited Givón’s distinction between pre-grammatical and
grammatical codes. The Andean Spanish varieties to be discussed here are
examples of grammatical codes because they are spoken natively and in the
absence of Quechua as a contact language. By contrast, I consider transitional
L2 Spanish spoken by some native Quechua-speaking learners of Spanish a
type of pre-grammatical code in the sense that morphology is less abundant
and less systematic, that it is spoken less fluently, more slowly, with more
effort, and with a higher error rate, and that it is a less conventionalized
variety (cf. grammatical vs pre-grammatical codes in Table 1.1).
Mantaro Valley Spanish of Peru has been described by Cerrón-Palomino,
who points out a number of characteristics, many of which are also found in
historical texts such as the one commented on above by Francisco Tito
Yupanqui. At the phonological level, Cerrón-Palomino (2003:203) notes that
rural Mantaro Valley Spanish speakers use traits of castellano motoso, or
typical Andean Spanish, which he characterizes schematically in another part
of the book (ibid.:94–95). Some of the traits he cites on the phonological level
are the confusion of o/u and e/i and monophthongization of diphthongs,
shown in (7.16), and the deletion of articles and prepositions, illustrated in
(7.17), which, he notes, have been written in standard Spanish orthography
that does not reflect the phonological properties of the examples.
(7.16a) piluta (< pelota)
kurnita (< corneta)
pulpitu (< pulpito)
rásu˛ (< razón)
sigoro (< seguro)
(7.16b) tinta (< tienda)
surti (< suerte)
(7.17a) Está en __ calle.
‘(S/he) is in (the) street.’
(7.17b) ¿Dónde está __ caballo?
‘Where is (the) horse?’
Elsewhere in the volume, Cerrón-Palomino (2003:27) speaks directly about
morphosyntactic features of rural Mantaro Valley speakers, which I have
reproduced in an adapted format in (7.18)–(7.22). The first example in each
triplet (a) is Mantaro Valley Andean Spanish, with the corresponding
Quechua counterparts in the second (b) example, and the standard Spanish
equivalents in the third (c) examples.
(7.18a) De mi mama en su casa estoy yendo.
of my mum in 3sg.poss house I-am going
176 Andean Spanish
(7.18b) Mamaa-pa wasi-n-tam liyaa.
mum-of house-3sg.poss-loc go
(7.18c) Voy a (la) casa de mi mama.
go-1sg to (the.fem) house of my mum
‘I’m going to my mum’s house.’
(7.19a) Mañana a Huancayo voy ir
tomorrow to Huancayo go.1sg go-inf
(7.19b) Walaman wankayyu-ta lisra.
tomorrow Huancayo-goal go-cont
(7.19c) Mañana voy a ir a Huancayo.
tomorrow go-1sg comp go-inf to Huancayo
‘Tomorrow I’m going to go to Huancayo.’
(7.20a) ¿Qué diciendo no más te has venido?
what saying no-more 2sg.refl have-you come-ppart?
(7.20b) ¿Ima nil-kul-llam shakamulanki?
what say-subord-just come-past-2sg
(7.20c) ¿A qué/por qué viniste?
to what/why came-you.sg
‘Why did you come?’
(7.21a) A mi tı́a voy visitar diciendo no más me he venido.
to my aunt go-1sg visit-inf saying no-more 1sg.refl have-1sg come-part
(7.21b) Tiyaa-ta bisitaasha nil-kul-llam shakamula.
aunt-acc visit-inf say-subord-just come-past-1sg
(7.21c) Vine pensando visitar a mi tı́a.
Came-1sg thinking visit-inf to my aunt
‘I came just thinking to visit my aunt.’
(7.22a) A tu chiquito oveja véndeme.
to your.sg.fam small-dim-masc sheep.fem sell.imp-me
(722b) Ychuk uwishlla-yki-ta lantikama-y.
little sheep-2poss-acc sell-2imp
(7.22c) Véndeme tu ovejita.
sell.imp-me your.sg.fam small-dim sheep
‘Sell me your sheep.’
These speech examples constitute a clear result of a feature pool that contains
an overwhelming presence of Quechua-language structures relative to
Spanish-language structures. This outcome is predictable independently by
appealing to the demographic information spanning over two centuries shown
in Tables 7.1–7.4. That is, we see that, relative to the non-native population in
the area, the indigenous population has been highly dominant in terms of
numbers and native language spoken; it is only in the past sixty years that the
situation has changed, especially in Junı́n, as evidenced by the demographic
information from 1972 and 1993 in Tables 7.5 and 7.6.
All the Andean Spanish examples in (7.18a)–(7.22a) contain at least one
and sometimes more than one Quechua feature. For instance, in (7.18a) the
7.3 Some key linguistic traits of Andean Spanish 177
possessive element is overtly realized on the possessor (de mi mama ‘of my
mum’), as well as on the item possessed (en su casa ‘in her house’). Although
Quechua morpheme order relative to the head is not the same in Andean
Spanish, almost all the relevant morphemes have a corresponding Quechua
counterpart: Sp. de ‘of’ corresponds to Q -pa, Sp. en to Q -tam, and Sp. su
to Q -n; Sp. mi does not have a Quechua counterpart in the example (see
also example (7.11b)). Another feature attributable to Spanish contact with
Quechua is the use of en with a directional verb, arguably a loan translation of
the locative suffix -tam that we see in (7.18b). Related to this is the use of the
locative en together with adverbs, a trait also present in rural monolingual
Spanish of Mantaro Valley. Two examples are shown in (7.23) (Cerrón-
Palomino 2003:195).
(7.23a) En allı́ está la soga.
in there is the rope
‘There is the rope.’
(7.23b) En el lunes ha llegado mi hermano.
in the Monday has arrived my brother
‘On Monday my brother arrived.’
Yet another trait attributable to Quechua in (7.18a), as well as in (7.19a), is
the clause-final verb order, which in standard Spanish in seldom found.
Again, this conforms to Quechua word order, as illustrated by the corres-
ponding examples in (7.18b) and (7.19b).
Example (7.20a) contains a subordinate clause preceding its main clause.
In terms of word order, this again corresponds to its Quechua counterpart in
(7.20b). As is apparent by the examples in (7.13)–(7.15), the subordinate-
clause (SC)–main-clause (MC) order is the norm in Quechua; and according
to Cerrón-Palomino, this is also the case for Mantaro Valley Spanish. Even
with a subordinate clause, as in (7.20) and (7.21), Mantaro Valley Spanish
and Quechua maintain the same SC–MC order, while in standard Spanish we
find MC–SC order in the corresponding examples. In these last two examples,
we also find another idiomatically typical feature, namely, the use of a verb þ
subordinator-like diciendo ‘saying’ immediately followed by no más, which
is a loan translation of the limitative morpheme -llam. In this variety of
Spanish, as in Quechua, it has the pragmatic function of a softener, not found
in the same way in standard Spanish. In Cerrón-Palomino’s commentary, it is
not clear whether there is a pragmatic or semantic distinction between (7.20a)
and the more standard (7.20c). As we will see below, this construction is also
found in the Spanish of Salta, Argentina, but with somewhat different prag-
matic information.
Finally, in (7.22a), apart from the expected OV word order, we find overt
marking of the direct object where in standard Spanish it would most likely
178 Andean Spanish
remain unmarked. Use of what is called in Spanish ‘personal a’ in this case
directly corresponds to the use of the Quechua accusative marker -ta. In
addition, the use of the diminutive -it is more prevalent in Mantaro Valley
Spanish, and in Andean Spanish in general, than in Standard Spanish. The use
of personal a and the diminutive -it are perhaps less clear-cut instances of
Quechua influence on Spanish because in Spanish they are both used.
However, the extent to which these morphemes are found in Mantaro Valley
Spanish is said to be greater than in non-Andean varieties of Spanish.8
Finally, we find a lack of gender agreement in the noun phrase a tu chiquito
oveja [lit. acc your.fam.sg small-dim-masc sheep-fem] ‘your little
sheep’, which according to Cerrón-Palomino is typical of monolingual
Mantaro Valley Spanish.
One final trait to mention here, found in Mantaro Valley monolingual
Spanish, is what Cerrón-Palomino (2003:158) has called ‘false pronomina-
lization’. Examples of the phenomenon are shown in (7.24).
(7.24a) Ya lo llegó.
already 3masc.obj arrived-3sg.pret
‘S/he arrived already.’
(7.24b) Ya lo murió.
already 3masc.obj died-3sg.pret
‘S/he already died.’
(7.24c) Lo durmió rapido.
3masc.obj went.to.sleep-3sg.pret fast
‘S/he went to sleep quickly.’
In each case, the pronoun form lo appears with an intransitive verb. It is worth
noting that they are all punctual verbs. Apart from the verbs llegar ‘arrive’,
morir ‘die’, and dormir(se) ‘fall asleep’, Cerrón-Palomino states that this type
of lo is also to be found in the writings of the aforementioned Francisco Tito
Yupanqui in the seventeenth century, with parecer ‘seem’ (a stative verb), the
movement verbs ir ‘go’, venir ‘come’, salir ‘leave, go out’, entrar ‘enter, go
in’ (the last three are punctual verbs), and reı́r ‘laugh’ (a durative, atelic
verb). He considers lo in these cases a re-analysis of the masculine pronoun as
a marker of immediacy and definitiveness, corresponding to Huanca Quechua
-l?u, which has the same function. As to why lo was selected for re-analysis
by the Mantaro Valley speakers, Cerrón-Palomino points to the sound simi-
larity between Spanish lo (lateral þ mid back vowel) and Huanca Quechua
-l?u (lateral þ glottal stop þ high back vowel). However, I believe that it also
may be related to the frequency of lo. I carried out a data base search in
8
In non-Andean varieties of Spanish, personal a marks animate direct objects (ellos ven a
Juanita ‘they see Juanita’) and disambiguates subjects from direct objects in cases of possible
ambiguity, as it el amor vence al odio ‘love overcomes hate’.
7.3 Some key linguistic traits of Andean Spanish 179
CREA of the most frequently appearing object pronouns with the transitive
verbs hacer ‘do’, ver ‘see’, and querer ‘want, love’ in spoken language. The
results are displayed in Table 7.10. Here, I assume that the oral Spanish
accessible to the Quechua speakers in Mantaro Valley was in general com-
parable to what we find today in oral Spanish. Note that the frequency of lo is
far higher than that of any of the other object pronouns, averaging over 50 per
cent of all the tokens.9
Given this situation, it is understandable that lo would
become the default pronoun in the Andean varieties in question. Similarly,
frequency would be an additional argument for lo’s being selected for false
pronominalization in both varieties.
In sum, rural monolingual Mantaro Valley Spanish is characterized by a
series of features. On the phonological level, confusion between e/i and o/u
and monophthongization of diphthongs are found. At the morphosyntactic
level, articles and prepositions are commonly deleted; in addition, we
encounter default head-final order in VPs, genitive and direct object marking
as in Quechua, and the use of en with movement verbs and adverbs. More-
over, subordinate clause–main clause order seems to be the preferred order;
the Quechua limitative morpheme-llam is calqued as no más; there is lack of
gender agreement; the diminutive -it is used extensively; and we find lo,
corresponding to Huanca Quechua -l?u, as a marker of immediacy and
definitiveness. It is apparent that the constellation of features present in these
Table 7.10. The frequency of present-tense forms of the transitive verbs hacer
‘do, make’, ver ‘see’, and querer ‘want, love’ from the CREA data base
(spoken language only)
Object Clitic
Pronoun hacer ver querer Total
Lo 1010 (58%) 563 (51%) 221 (40%) 1794 (53%)
Los 79 (5%) 135 (12%) 50 (9%) 264 (8%)
La 153 (9%) 183 (17%) 90 (16%) 426 (12%)
Las 80 (5%) 46 (4%) 24 (4%) 150 (4%)
Le 323 (18%) 156 (14%) 117 (21%) 596 (18%)
Les 101 (6%) 19 (2%) 47 (9%) 167 (5%)
Total 1746 (100%) 1102 (100%) 549 (100%) 3397 (100%)
Note: Totals may not equal 100 because of rounding.
9
It must be noted that the overall frequency of the forms lo, los, la, and las in oral texts is
different because la, las, and los have homophonous counterparts that are definite articles. The
overall form frequencies found in CREA are: lo 77,050, los 110,900, la 282,973, las 69,788.
180 Andean Spanish
examples, taken together, is the result of the overwhelming presence of
Quechua features in the history of the area, even though Quechua is no longer
spoken in the part of Mantaro Valley from where Cerrón-Palomino collected
his data. I consider this evidence as an indication that the strong presence of
Quechua-speaking people in the history of the area, along with the corres-
ponding weak presence of Spanish, led to a linguistic situation in which the
feature pool of the region continued to be strongly Quechua-dominant, even
though it is now a monolingual Spanish-speaking area and Spanish is the
prestige language. It is not surprising that, in this area where Quechua has had
such a strong presence until recently, Quechua structures have been favoured.
In the monolingual Spanish-speaking province of Salta in Argentina, we
find a situation comparable to the one in the Mantaro Valley. Studies in
Fernández Lávaque and del Valle Rodas (1998) address the various traits that
characterize the monolingual variety of Spanish of the area, one in which
Quechua has not been spoken for seventy years or more. Regarding vowel
production, their corpus reveals that vowel realization in nouns, adjectives,
and verbs is similar and that e/i confusion is more frequently found than o/u
confusion (ibid.:136). Interestingly, although he does not comment on
Mantaro Valley Spanish in this regard, Cerrón-Palomino (2003:152–153)
notes this same tendency in the speech of Tito Yupanqui: ‘This confusion [e/i
alternation] is found in larger measure between the front vowels . . . The same
occurs, although to a lesser extent, between the back vowels’ (my translation).
Examples cited by Fernández Lávaque and del Valle Rodas (1998:136–137)
are shown in (7.25)–(7.26).
(7.25a) El tigri si ha henchado. (Cf. El tigre se ha hinchado.)
‘The tiger swelled up.’
(7.25b) Valgamı́ Dios. (Cf. Válgame Dios.)
‘Oh, good God.’
(7.25c) Ricogı́a la cosicha. (Cf. recogı́a la cosecha.)
‘S/he harvested the crop.’
(7.26a) segón decı́a (cf. según decı́a)
‘according to what s/he was saying’
(7.26b) y li dejau tudu esu (cf. y le he dejado todo eso)
‘and I have left him all that’
(7.26c) onoh anemales (cf. unos animales)
‘some animals’
Another tendency that affects vowels in the Salta data is the mono-
phthongization of diphthongs, present as well in Mantaro Valley Spanish as
illustrated in (7.27).
(7.27a) Lempo lo ha traı́do. (Cf. Lo ha traido limpio.)
‘S/he brought it over clean.’
7.3 Some key linguistic traits of Andean Spanish 181
(7.27b) Venı́an por las fistas de Navidad. (Cf. Venı́an por las fiestas de Navidad.)
‘They came for the Christmas holidays.’
(7.27c) Ha pusto de vuelta. (Cf. Ha puesto de vuelta.)
‘S/he returned [it].’
In their corpus, Fernández Lávaque and del Valle Rodas (1998) also find
what they call the neutralization of object clitics, referring to the lack of
person and gender agreement between antecedent and clitic and the gener-
alization of lo as the default. The examples in (7.28) are taken from
Fernández Lávaque (1998a:79–80).
(7.28a) La plantita tiene una flor y hay que apretarlo.
(cf. apretarla) [la ¼> lo]
‘The little plant has a flower and one must squeeze it.’
(7.28b) Che, ha parı́o otra doh yegua, andá velu voh.
(cf. verlas vos) [las ¼> lo [lu]]
‘Hey, [the mare] gave birth to another two mares. Go see them.’
(7.28c) pa loh potroh. Despuéh lo hacı́h castrar, lo hacı́h domesticar.
(cf. los hacı́s castrar, los hacı́s domesticar) [los ¼> lo]
‘for the foals. Afterwards they had them castrated and domesticated.’
(7.28d) Bueno, lo dice el zorro al cordero.
(cf. le dice . . . al cordero) [le ¼> lo]
‘Well, the fox says it to the lamb.’
(7.28e) Entonceh lo dijo el chancho a la cabra
(cf. le dijo) [le ¼> lo]
‘Then the ___ said it to the goat.’
(7.28f) Lo ha dicho a los viejitoh que . . .
(cf. Les ha dicho . . .) [les ¼> lo]
‘[S/he] said to the old folk that . . .’
Noteworthy is that the default lo replaces not only direct object clitics (i.e.,
feminine singular la in (7.28a), feminine plural las in (7.28b), and masculine
plural los in (7.28c), but also indirect object clitics, as shown in (7.28d–f).
In these examples, the author also acknowledges -s aspiration (e.g., hacı́h
[< hacı́s]), and vowel raising (e.g., lu [< lo]), the former a trait of Argen-
tinean Spanish, the latter of Andean Spanish. The neutralization of number,
gender, and case distinctions represented in the multi-functional object clitic
pronoun lo is also found in Peru, and as early as the sixteenth century in the
speech of Tito Yupanqui (see Cerrón-Palomino 2003:35–70). In Mantaro
Valley Spanish, there are examples of this phenomenon, such as that given in
(7.22). As to why lo was selected, I argue that it is again a case of high
frequency of lo relative to the other pronouns (see Table 7.10).
Another phenomenon found in monolingual Spanish of the Salta region,
although it is disappearing (Fernández Lávaque 1998b:59), is the use of the
locative preposition en ‘in’ together with locative adverbs, as in en acá [in
182 Andean Spanish
here] ‘here’, en cerca [in near] ‘near’, en lejos [in far] ‘far’, en allı́ [in there]
‘there’, etc. Fernández Lávaque (ibid.) notes that it seems to be an old trait of
the Salta area and agrees with the general consensus among scholars of
Andean Spanish that en is a calque of the locative Quechua II post-position
-pi, which appears with locative adverbs, as in kay-pi [here-loc] ‘here’.
Again, this is found in the rural monolingual speech in Mantaro Valley,
illustrated by the example given in (7.23).
In Salta, false pronominalization of the type illustrated in (7.24) is also
present. The examples from Salta are given in (7.29), taken from Nardi (1976,
cited in Cerrón-Palomino 2003:158).
(7.29a) Te lo vamos a cortar la soga.
you.io it.masc go-3s.pres comp cut-inf the.fem rope-fem
‘We’re going to cut the rope for you.’
(7.29b) Tócamelo la chacarera.
play.imp-meio-it.masc.do the.fem chacarera-dance-fem
‘Play me the chacarera dance.’
Nardi (1976) notes that the function of lo in these examples is a calque of
Argentinean Quechua -pu, which expresses a malefactive sense. However,
Cerrón-Palomino (2003:158–159) notes that -pu has three other readings, the
first benefactive, the second iterative, and the third, related to iterativity, to
express unexpectedness or suddenness of an action, as in wañu-pu- ‘die
quickly, definitively’. He relates this last reading of -pu to that of Huanca
Quechua -l?u, which marks immediacy or definitiveness of an action. Thus,
even where phonological form does not necessarily favour the re-analysis of
lo as an aspectual marker, the frequency argument can be made.
As an aside, note that false pronominal lo is also found in the writing of
Francisco Tito Yupanqui, illustrated in (7.30) (from Cerrón-Palomino
2003:170).
(7.30a) Se lo qureys ser pentor . . .
if masc.do want-2pl be-inf painter
(si queréis ser pintor)
‘If you want to be a painter . . .’
(7.30b) Ası́ lo intró [el Vergen] in la Eclesia.
this way masc.do entered-3sg [the-masc Virgin] in the-fem church
(Ası́ entró la Virgen en la iglesia.)
‘In this way, the Virgin entered the church.’
(7.30c) Lo vino otro padre.
masc.do come-3s other father
(Vino otro padre.)
‘Another priest came.’
With respect to constituent order in the sentence, in rural Salta Spanish
Vargas Orellana (1998) found OV and SOV orders in the speech of older
7.3 Some key linguistic traits of Andean Spanish 183
people and people with less education. Among the examples she cites from
the oral corpora she used were ones that in standard Spanish would represent
a type of topicalization, such as in (7.31). The constituent order in these
sentences, including the post-nominal determiners esa and ese respectively,
represents standard colloquial usage in Spanish.
(7.31a) A la persona esa la invitan de comer ahı́.
obj the-fem person that-fem do-fem invite comp eat-inf there
‘That person there, they invited her to eat there.’
(7.31b) La cabeza no lo tenı́a el toro ese.
the-fem head neg do-masc had the-masc bull that
‘His head, that bull didn’t have it on.’
However, what is not clear is whether this topicalization is used as such in
this variety of Spanish. Other examples cited by Vargas Ortellana suggest that
the constituent order in the sentences in (7.31) may be regular, having nothing
to do with direct object topicalization. Consider the examples in (7.32), also
cited by Vargas Ortellana.
(7.32a) Más miedo ella ha tenido.
more fear she has had
‘She has been more afraid.’
(7.32b) Una media res por la mañana ponı́a a asar.
A half cow in the morning put.on-imper comp roast-inf
‘He put a half cow to roast in the morning.’
(7.32c) La vaca echan al corral.
the-fem cow throw-3pl to-the-masc corral
‘They throw the cow into the corral.’
(7.32d) Agua bendita hi traı́do de l’ iglesia.
water holy have-1sg brought-ppart from the church
‘I have brought holy water from the church.’
Note that in these examples, we find OV order and no resumptive pronoun
where in standard colloquial Spanish OV order would trigger the obligatory
presence of a resumptive pronoun. That is, in standard colloquial Spanish
these sentences would be odd or unacceptable. Moreover, the utterances in
(7.31) and (7.32) were produced by third-generation monolingual Spanish
speakers, an indication that OV constituent order without a resumptive pro-
noun is part of their grammar. In Mantaro Valley monolingual Spanish, not
only is OV order common (see (7.21)), but verb-final order is the default, as
evidenced by the adjunct–verb order in the sentences (7.18)–(7.20).
One last observation regarding this constituent order is that verb-final order
in Salta Spanish is found, as mentioned, mostly among the rural and less
educated speakers. As such, I assume that it is a socio-linguistic marker.
However, not all traits in this variety traceable to Quechua are socio-linguistic
184 Andean Spanish
markers. One such case is the non-standard use of the gerunds diciendo
‘saying’ and haciendo ‘doing’. Del Valle Rodas (1998:99) notes that the
particular construction in which these gerunds appear in Salta Spanish are
used colloquially by members of all social classes.10
The forms diciendo ‘saying’ and haciendo ‘doing’ are used in a subor-
dination construction, as well as in question formation, as in (7.33).
(7.33a) ¿Qué haciendo te ensuciaste ası́?
what doing you.fam.obj became.dirty-2sg that.way
‘How did you get dirty like that?’
(7.33b) ¿Qué haciendo se ha lastimado el perrito?
what doing 3s.refl has hurt the.masc dog-masc
‘How did the little dog hurt himself?’
(7.33c) ¿Sabı́as que no vino nadie?
know-imper comp neg came-3sg no one
‘Did you know that no one came?’
No sé qué diciendo les anuncié que
neg know-1sg what saying them announced-1sg comp
‘I don’t know why I told them that
hoy tenı́an control de lectura.
today had-3pl control of reading
today they had control over the reading.’
(7.33d) ¡Qué diciendo te ponés el saco!
what saying you.obj put.on the-masc jacket
Te queda chico, ¿no ves?
you.obj fits small neg see-2sg
‘Why are you putting on that jacket? It’s too small, don’t you see?’
(7.33e) No sabrı́a decir cómo haciendo lo convenció.
neg know-1sg.cond say-inf how doing him convinced-3sg
‘I wouldn’t know how to say how he convinced him.’
These three constructions have in common that they constitute subordinate
gerund clauses that contain a subject co-referential with the main-clause
subject. In the case of qué haciendo ‘what doing’, del Valle Rodas (1998:101)
states that there is a slight temporal simultaneity or anteriority expressed: in
(7.33a) an activity was on-going at the time of getting dirty, and in (7.33b)
there was an event that led up to getting hurt. Also of note is that this
construction connotes a perspective on the part of the speaker, namely that the
event is inexplicable. For example, in (7.33a) in addition to asking why the
interlocutor got dirty, the speaker also expresses that s/he finds it inexplicable.
Finally, this construction is still considered semantically a subordinate clause.
It has not been grammaticalized as in the case of the other two constructions,
to which I now turn.
10
See del Valle Rodas’ discussion of the instrument design used to collect the information for
the study of these constructions (1998:100–107).
7.3 Some key linguistic traits of Andean Spanish 185
The construction with qué diciendo ‘what saying’ is used with the meaning
of interrogative ‘why’, but it carries the additional information that the
speaker thinks the event should not have been carried out. Thus, in (7.33c) the
speaker expresses that s/he should have told the people they had control over
the readings. Similarly, in (7.33d) the speaker asks the question, expressing
that the interlocutor should not put the jacket on.
The construction cómo haciendo has a similar interpretation to qué
diciendo in that in addition to the question asked there is also a concomitant
expression of incredulity. Thus, in (7.33e) the speaker expresses that s/he
does not know how a third party convinced a certain person and, in addition,
that it is hard to believe that it took place. In English, it might be rendered by
‘I have no idea how the hell he convinced her’, or something to that effect. As
with qué diciendo, this construction is grammaticalized to the point where it
functions semantically like a question word (see del Valle Rodas 1998). Del
Valle Rodas also explains why these constructions have permeated the speech
of monolingual Spanish speakers: they are not in any way stigmatized but
rather are found in the speech of speakers belonging to all strata of Salta
society. In short, they are not marked socio-linguistically.
As a final point, we also find the same type of qué diciendo construction as
those in (7.33) in monolingual Mantaro Valley Spanish (see (7.20)), also with
the function of a question word. Although I cannot say whether the two
constructions have exactly the same semantic and pragmatic interpretations,
what is clear is that the Spanish suffix -ndo in both varieties has been iden-
tified as a morpheme that can be used as a subordinating conjunction while
maintaining the subordinate- and main-clause subjects as co-referential. This
mapping, I argue, occurred independently, and I find it interesting from a
cognitive perspective that the same mapping solution was found in both cases.
The last trait to be discussed here is the extensive use of the diminutive.
Fernández Lávaque (1998c:124) notes that the use of the diminutive (e.g.,
-ito, -illo, etc.) can be distinguished from diminutive use in non-Andean
varieties of Spanish in three ways. Fernández Lávaque argues that it attaches
to more word classes than in Standard Spanish, it is used more frequently, and
it can be used more than once in a given sentence. It is worth examining these
claims, which I will do in the order given.
In Salta Spanish, diminutives attach to deictic determiners, quantifier
terms, subject pronouns, and even certain interjections (e.g., aı́ta derived from
ay ‘oh’). To see whether this is also true of other varieties of monolingual
Spanish, I carried out a search, in spoken language in CREA, of diminutive
forms of the deictic determiners est-e/-o/-a ‘this’, es-e/-o/-a ‘that’, aquel/-lo/-la
‘that over there’ (and their corresponding plural forms); the quantifier terms
cualquiera ‘whatever’, nada ‘nothing’, and algo ‘something’; the pronouns
yo ‘I’, tú ‘you.sg.fam’, él ‘he’, ella ‘she’, nosotros ‘we’, and ell-os/-as ‘they’;
186 Andean Spanish
the possessive determiners/pronouns mi-o/-a ‘my/mine’, tuy-o/-a, ‘your(s)’,
suy-o/-a ‘his, her(s), their(s)’, and their corresponding plural forms; and the
interjection ay ‘oh’. In the search, only three of these items were found in their
diminutive form: nadita (six times), alguito (four times), and suy-o/-a (twice). It
is safe to say, then, that the diminutivization of these elements is extremely rare
and Fernández Lávaque’s claim holds for these items.
Second, the author states that diminutives are used with more frequency in
Salta Spanish than in non-Andean Spanish, due again to contact with
Quechua. In a corpus of non-Andean Colombian Spanish (Catherine Travis,
personal communication, 1 May 2006), the ratio of diminutives to words in
the corpus is 577 diminutives/70,000 words or around 8/1000. If, however,
the 97 tokens of lexicalized ahorita ‘right now’ are discounted, the result is
480/70,000 words or just under 7/1000, significantly lower than the 20/1000
Fernández Lávaque reports for her corpus. Thus, on this measure, the claim
by Fernández Lávaque is also upheld.
With regard to the accumulation of diminutives within a sentence or a
couple of sentences, we find in Fernández Lávaque (1998c:126) the sentence
given in (7.34), in which we have two diminutive forms: poquito ‘little-dim’
and aı́ta ‘oh-dim’, the second of which is repeated. Fernández Lávaque cites
a Quechua example, shown in (7.35), taken from Ayacucho (Peru), which
also shows the accumulation of affective markers. I include a glossed
example in (7.36) which illustrates the same phenomenon.11
The suffix -cha
is an affective marker and -lla a limitative/affective marker. The first one is
often rendered in Spanish as -ito, the second as no más ‘no more’ or with the
diminutive.
(7.34) Ha metı́o la manu ‘n poquito . . .
has put.in the hand a little-dim
Aı́ta, aı́ta, por favor señor m’ agarrau
oh-dim oh-dim please sir me grab-ppart
la manu -dice- Ay!
the hand says Oh
‘(He) put his hand on her a little. “Oh, Oh, please sir”, she says, “you’ve
just grabbed my hand, oh!”’
(7.35) Warmachallaqa chakintam haytakurullasqa.
‘The poor little boy had hurt himself in the foot.’
(7.36) Wawa -cha-yki- ta llulla-yku-lla-y
baby dim 2poss acc console-intens-lim-inf
‘Do calm your little baby down.’
11
Thanks to Marilyn Feke for directing me to this example, taken from Aráoz and Salas
(1993:69).
7.3 Some key linguistic traits of Andean Spanish 187
Thus, the argument advanced by Fernández Lávaque that the diminutive in
Salta Spanish appears with a wide range of lexical/functional words, is used
more frequently than in non-Andean monolingual Spanish varieties, and is
often used accumulatively in the speech chain is supported by solid evidence.
7.4 Concluding remarks
Due to its widespread use along the west coast of South America from
southern Colombia to northern Argentina and Chile, Spanish conquistadores
chose Quechua as the language of choice for the purposes of communication
and evangelization at the outset of the colonization. Although from the
eighteenth century onwards there has been a move towards the Castiliani-
zation of the Andean region, the great disproportion in numbers between
native Quechua and native Spanish speakers, as well as a colonization geared
exclusively towards the exploitation of indigenous labour, made it impossible
for the widespread inter-ethnic contact necessary for generalized bilingualism
to occur (Rivarola 1989:155, 160). Given these circumstances, we find
approximative systems of Spanish in the region from very early on (Cerrón-
Palomino 2003:135–170), and the type of bilingualism that has emerged
reveals an extremely strong presence of Quechua-language features. Today,
we still find pervasive evidence of approximative L2 Spanish systems, as well
as evidence of monolingual varieties of Andean Spanish that contain a high
number of Quechua features. In the comparison of the monolingual varieties
spoken in Mantaro Valley, Peru, and Salta, Argentina, my goal was to
examine whether in such monolingual Spanish-speaking communities com-
mon traits are present. The comparison suggests that these monolingual
Spanish varieties, independently of one another, developed many of the same
or similar linguistic traits. A list of the common traits discussed is given
in (7.37).
(7.37a) confusion of o–u and e–i
(7.37b) monophthongization ie ¼¼> i, ue ¼¼> u
(7.37c) use of the locative en ‘in’ with motion verbs and adverbs
(7.37d) lack of gender and number agreement
(7.37e) generalization of the clitic lo as the object pronoun
(7.37f) use of the clitic lo to mark aspect (false pronominalization)
(7.37g) pervasive use of diciendo ‘saying’ and haciendo ‘doing’ in subordinate
clause constructions with similar interpretations in both situations
(7.37h) strong presence of verb-final (as opposed to verb-initial) VPs
(7.37i) frequent use of diminutives and of no más
As I have argued throughout this chapter, this could only have happened if the
socio-cultural conditions in Mantaro Valley and Salta were similar, that is, if
in each case there was a demographically strong presence of indigenous,
188 Andean Spanish
Quechua-speaking people who provided the high frequency of Quechua
features during the period of acquisition of Spanish. Moreover, in monolin-
gual Mantaro Valley and Salta, the mappings could not have taken place
without also assuming an extended period of bilingualism in which Quechua
was the heavily dominant language in terms of numbers of speakers, if not in
terms of relative prestige.
Although Cerrón-Palomino (2003) addresses in detail issues of language
instruction, language planning, and the choice of which variety of Spanish
should be used in education, the relation Andean Spanish speakers have to
their variety of Spanish is not addressed directly. In a personal communi-
cation (4 March 2007), Cerrón-Palomino states that there are as yet no studies
that treat the issue systematically. However, commenting on the situation in
Peru, he observes that in the cities certain traits of Andean Spanish (e.g.,
vowel raising and lowering, non-standard use of the subjunctive) are per-
ceived negatively, while others, such as non-standard person and number
agreement, are hardly noticed and are accepted as normal. The point, though,
is that as a community it seems that Andean Spanish speakers have not
developed a positive link between their cultural identity and the particular
variety of Andean Spanish they speak. In the next chapter, I discuss a variety
of Portuguese which has come to represent the unique culture of those who
speak it.
7.4 Concluding remarks 189
8 Barranquenho
8.1 Introduction
Some attention has been paid to the contact situation on the Uruguay–Brazil
border where a swathe of border land once belonging to Brazil became part
of Uruguay in the nineteenth century. Although a 50- to 100-km strip in
Uruguay on the Uruguay–Brazil border has been part of that country for more
than 120 years, a variety of Portuguese is still maintained in the area which
has been referred to as Portuñol or Fronterizo. (See Waltermire 2006 and
references therein.)
The border area between Portugal and Spain, locally known as A Raia or
La Raya ‘the border, boundary’, has received less attention although there are
several Portuguese–Spanish contact situations in that area. For example,
in the Spanish city of Valencia-de-Alcántara there is a sizable enclave of
Portuguese-speaking citizens and to my knowledge this situation has yet to be
studied systematically. In the case of Barranquenho, the variety of Spanish-
influenced Portuguese spoken in Barrancos, Portugal, the monograph by Leite
de Vasconcelos (1955) and the more recent work by Navas Sánchez-Élez
(1992, 1994, 1996, 1997, 2001) are seminal, though this contact situation is
also largely unknown among the wider audience in contact linguistics. The
Barrancos situation is interesting because, over the centuries, the area has
been claimed by both Portugal and Spain. In order to illustrate this, I first give
a brief historical overview of the area from the Middle Ages onwards. I then
discuss the various features that define Barranquenho, using material found in
Leite de Vasconcelos (1955) and a corpus comprising speech of twenty-two
Barranquenho speakers. I then address the question of whether the details of
the history of Barrancos lead to predictions about the presence of the features
we find.1
1
When using the terms Portuguese and Spanish here, I am referring exclusively to European
Portuguese and Andalusian Spanish. However, with regard to clitic form and placement in
Spanish, my generalizations apply to Spanish in general.
190
8.2 Historical background of the Barrancos area
The recorded history of Barrancos and nearby Noudar castle goes back to
the Middle Ages. For centuries the area of A Raia was under the rule of
the Moors who had conquered the Iberian peninsula in the beginning of the
eighth century. As the Christians began to organize themselves across the
northern part of the peninsula, they confronted the Moors in battle as
expected, but they also faced battles among the different emerging political
entities of Christians. The polities that concern us here are Portugal, Galicia,
and Castile-Leon. From the ninth century to the twelfth, the borders
between what would become these three kingdoms were fluid (Leguay, de
Oliveira Marques, and Beirante 1993:59–60). Portugal defined itself first as
a county in 1094 and later in 1179 as a kingdom (Leguay, de Oliveira Marques,
and Beirante 1993:263 and de Oliveira Marques 1998:35–37). After a series
Badajoz
A Raia region
Barrancos
Valencia-de-Alcántara
Moura
G
u
a
d
i
a
n
a
Madrid
Lisbon
Map 8.1. The area of A Raia on the southern Portugal–Spain border.
8.2 Historical background of the Barrancos area 191
of border disputes that continued into the thirteenth century, Portugal
and Castile signed two important border-related agreements: that of Badajoz
and that of Alcañices. In the Badajoz agreement, the two kingdoms reached
a decision to use the Guadiana River as the border between the two king-
doms. As is apparent from Map 8.1, this puts Barrancos and Moura in
Castile. Da Azevedo Maia (2001:3) states that borders, especially in the
Middle Ages, are best understood as zonas-frontera or ‘border zones’ rather
than border lines, and that these zones were defined by a long string of
castles along the border zone from north to south. The castle closest to
Barrancos is Noudar castle, approximately 8 km away, and Noudar castle
and the Barrancos area have always been part of the same administrative unit.
De Matos Coelho (1999) offers a synoptic history of Noudar castle, in
which it becomes apparent how often the border zones shifted from one
kingdom to the other. The account starts in 1167, the year the area was
conquered by the Portuguese (ibid.:65–74). In 1184, the area was lost again
to the Moors, but was re-conquered in the same year. The next major change
occurred in 1253, when Portugal and Castile reached an agreement that
Noudar castle would become Castilian, but just thirty years later, on 4
March 1283, Alfonse the Wise of Castile gifted the Barrancos area, along
with Moura and Serpa, to his daughter Beatriz. In 1303, the area was again
gifted away, this time to the Order of Avis (a Portuguese noble order) and
the new owners made renovations to the castle that were completed in 1308.
Thirty-one years later, in 1339, the Castilian Order of Santiago laid siege to
Noudar castle and took it from the Portuguese within days, holding it until
1372, when as part of a wedding gift it was returned to Portugal. However,
as soon as King Dom Fernando, the king who gifted it to the Order of Avis,
died in 1383, the Castilians again took over the castle and the adjacent area.
Their possession was, however, cut short: in 1399 King João of Portugal,
who was also the master of the Order of Avis, retook the castle, keeping it
for the next seventy-six years. In 1475, Castile briefly held Noudar castle
and the surrounding area for three years, after which it was returned to
Portugal in 1478. Between 1478 and 1516, there were disagreements and
resolutions between the two kingdoms regarding what municipalities
belonged to each kingdom and what rights each kingdom had to the use of
the arable fields.
During this period (i.e., in 1493), there is mention of Castilians living in
Barrancos. Leite de Vasconcelos (1955:6–7) states that in a 1527 text
Barrancos shows up as a village within the area of Noudar castle and is said to
have had seventy-three inhabitants, the majority of whom were Castilians.
Thus, we can assume that there was a strong Spanish-language presence
there, at least from that point onwards. On 3 June, 1516, the Portuguese came
192 Barranquenho
into possession of Noudar castle. This lasted until 1580, the year in which
Castile-Spain, under Philip II (1556–98), took possession of the whole of
Portugal, a period which marked the beginning of the decline of Portugal as a
colonial power. In 1640, Noudar castle was re-fortified, and the Portuguese
took Barrancos and Noudar castle by force the next year. This occupation of
the area lasted until 1662, the year in which the territory in the Noudar area,
except Noudar castle itself, was taken back by Spain; by 1707 the castle had
also been taken by Spain. Eight years later (in 1715), Spain agreed to return
the castle to Portugal.
From 1715 onwards, the Noudar castle–Barrancos area has been part of
Portugal, albeit not without complications of status. Throughout the nine-
teenth century, Portugal and Spain continued to struggle over their respective
claims on the territory. The matter languished until 1886, when Portugal and
Spain named delegations to negotiate the issue of possession. The diplomatic
effort culminated in 1894 with the ratification of a convention whereby
Barrancos and Noudar castle became a definitive part of Portugal; in 1910 the
castle was made a national monument, ending once and for all the 800-year-
old territorial dispute.
Regarding the socio-linguistic relation between Portuguese, Castilian/
Spanish, and the other dialects of the area (Galician, Asturian, Leonese), as
far back as the twelfth century Castilian was considered a language of
prestige. Da Azevedo Maia (2001:2) reports that ‘with the definitive union of
the kingdoms of Castile and Leon and with the subsequent expansion of the
Castilian language, which for a long time had been the prestige language in
the Leonese kingdom, the gradual Castilianization [of Leon] took place’
(my translation).2
During his reign as king of Castile (1252–84), Alfonso el
Sabio ‘the Wise’ was a patron of the arts and of learning and was responsible
for a number of important publications, including translations of scholarly
works. Among the artistic productions were the Cantigas de Santa Maria, a
varied collection of songs written in Galician and dedicated to the Blessed
Virgin. Thus, Galician, a variety of Portuguese, enjoyed early on some
prestige. However, many of the other works produced by the scholars
affiliated with the king’s court were in Castilian, such as the Castilian ver-
sions of the astrology text Lapidario, the first history of Spain entitled Pri-
mera Crónica General ‘First General Chronicle’, a history of the world
Estoria General ‘General History’, the Saber de Astronomia ‘Knowledge of
Astronomy’, the Libro de Ajedrez ‘Book of Chess’, and many other texts
(Lapesa 1981:237–239).
2
The original reads, ‘Con la unión definitiva de los reinos de Castilla y León y con la expansión
del castellano que, desde hacı́a mucho tiempo, era lengua de prestigio en el reino leonés, se
asiste a su paulatina castellanización.’
8.2 Historical background of the Barrancos area 193
As the kingdom of Castile expanded, Castilian became the language used in
the royal chancellery for the practical reason that it was the lingua franca of the
re-conquest effort (Lapesa 1981:172–173, 189–192, 245–247). This is one key
reason why Alfonso el Sabio most likely chose to have texts in Arabic and
Hebrew translated into Castilian. In turn, the scholarly production in Alfonso
el Sabio’s court was crucial in establishing Castilian as a more prestigious
language than Galician/Portuguese, Leonese, and Asturian. Finally, Castilian
was the first Romance language to have a written grammar – Nebrija’s (1492)
Gramática de la lengua castellana.
In the specific relation between Portugal and Portuguese on the one hand
and Castile and Castilian on the other, it is important to note that Portugal
belonged to Castile for sixty years (1580–1640), a period which coincided
with the sharp decline of Portugal as a colonial power. Although Castile’s
own decline would follow shortly thereafter, it progressed more slowly than
that of Portugal. Moreover, Castile was the larger and more powerful
kingdom. Thus, as the prestige of a language usually follows social, eco-
nomic, and military power, Castilian was the more prestigious of the two.
Over time it came to be the most prestigious language of the peninsula and a
national language.
Since the eighteenth century, Castilian has dominated in many of its
colonies. It is the national language of Mexico and almost all Central and
South American countries. In addition, it is still spoken in the Spanish ter-
ritories of Alhucemas, Ceuta, the Chafarinas Islands, Melilla, and Peñón de
Vélez de la Gomera in North Africa as well as the Philippines. For its part,
apart from Brazil, Portuguese is still spoken in the Cape Verde Islands, some
Gulf of Guinea islands, Angola, and Mozambique in Africa, as well as in
some localities in Asia. However, it does not have the global presence cur-
rently enjoyed by Spanish.
The Portuguese linguist Leite de Vasconcelos (1955:7–8) writes that
during his data collection in Barrancos he made the acquaintance of a
Senhor Vázquez, from Spain but of Portuguese nationality, who showed
him documentation that the Vázquez family was living there in 1790.
Senhor Vázquez spoke to the linguist of his paternal grandfather who
was born in Spain, but moved to Barrancos because of war and established
a respectable business there. More generally, Leite de Vasconcelos learned
that during the nineteenth century the professions of medical doctor,
veterinarian, school teacher, and grave digger in the Barrancos area
were held exclusively by Spaniards, and many others were barbers, shoe-
makers, carpenters, and merchants. The fact that the professionals spoke
Spanish gave the language a certain amount of prestige as compared to
Portuguese.
194 Barranquenho
In the past 100 years, Spanish has also remained the more prestigious
language on the Iberian peninsula. Again, the reasons have to do, in general,
with social and economic strength. With regard to the Barrancos area, its
inhabitants have travelled regularly to Spain in the past century for many
reasons, chiefly to purchase consumer goods and seek better health care, apart
from visiting friends and relatives. Even during the Franco dictatorship in
Spain (1939–75), there remained a steady stream of contraband trade across
the border, mostly from Spain to Portugal. Since the Barranquenho women
carried out most of the cross-border commerce, they maintained their variety
of Spanish. Even after the Spanish dictatorship fell and the dictatorship in
Portugal dissolved in 1975 through a peaceful revolution, Barranquenho
women still sought goods and services routinely on the Spanish side of the
border.
Today the situation is largely the same in many ways. For example,
Barrancos inhabitants reported in 2003 that there is a greater diversity
of merchandise at less expensive prices in Spain than in Portugal. Thus,
Barranquenho women still shop on a regular basis in Spain and of course are
able to cross the border freely. Moreover, Barrancos has no hospital, so its
inhabitants go to Spain for emergency medical treatment; a Spanish doctor
travels to Barrancos once a week to attend to the sick.
Leite de Vasconcelos (1955:7–8) reports that, when he visited Barrancos in
1938, almost all the families claimed to be of Spanish heritage and that all
inhabitants, whether literate or illiterate, spoke Portuguese and Spanish
equally well. He also mentions cases of children who spoke Spanish to their
mothers and Portuguese to their fathers, although he also notes that Portu-
guese was favoured among the younger generation because of the influence of
the schools.
The general pattern that emerges from this brief overview is that, from
very early on, Spanish has been more prestigious than Portuguese on the
Iberian peninsula. Leite de Vasconcelos (1955:29–30) states that there was
even a document dated 1245 from which one can infer that in Noudar castle
both Portuguese and Castilian were in use at that time. He also reminds us
that in 1527 the majority of the Barrancos population was Castilian and that
it was only after the passage of much time and through political influence at
the local level that linguistic supremacy was transferred to Portuguese. This
supports the view that although Barranquenhos were aligned with Portugal
in more recent history, they maintain deep ties with Spain. Of course, as
polities became better defined in the nineteenth century, Portuguese became
the default language of instruction and of the church in Barrancos. And,
because more people attended school, more learned Portuguese. However,
Barranquenhos have also created a separate, unique identity. Consequently,
8.2 Historical background of the Barrancos area 195
they maintain, as Leite de Vasconcelos (1955:30) notes, three linguistic
varieties: Barranquenho, their local variety; Spanish, the variety that his-
torically they have ties with; and Portuguese, the language of the nation in
which they live. In the same monograph (ibid.:10), the linguist comments:
From Barrancos’ geographical situation, the mixing of the village’s inhabitants and the
language they speak, they have acquired a certain character of traditional moral
independence. When a villager from another [Portuguese] town such as Moura, Beja,
etc. arrives [in Barrancos], the Barranquenhos say: ‘He’s Portuguese, there comes a
Portuguese’, as if they were not Portuguese! But they also say about someone coming
from Spain, ‘There comes a Spaniard!’ (my translation).
This independent character among the Barranquenhos is reflected not only
in the variety of language they speak, but also in certain defining aspects of
their village culture. One of these involves bull fighting. In Barrancos’ annual
village festival, there are a number of bull-fights and in these the bulls are still
killed, as is the custom in Spain, although in Portugal – of which Barrancos is
a part – the killing of bulls in bull-fights is strictly prohibited. However, the
resistance to the law in Barrancos was intense. Several of the town’s key
citizens even travelled to Lisbon, presented their case before the national
parliament for keeping their bull-fighting tradition in Barrancos, and ultim-
ately were successful in protecting a tradition that is deeply Spanish and no
longer Portuguese in character.
The question arises about when Barranquenho became its own linguistic
variety. We know that Barrancos had both Portuguese and Castilian speakers
(and a majority of the latter) in 1527. A general answer to the question would,
then, be that sometime between 1527 and the beginning of the twentieth
century Barranquenho was formed, assuming (as I do) that when Leite de
Vasconcelos visited the village in 1938 Barranquenho was a fully formed
variety that could be spoken with different degrees of accuracy.
The presence of certain lexical items in Barranquenho may give a clue to when
it formed. One potential candidate seemed to be the adverb ansina ‘like this/that’,
which is an older Spanish form corresponding to present-day ası́. In the speech of
the twenty-two informants I collected, there are thirty-three tokens of assim
(thirty-two of which are from one speaker), none of ası́, and one token of ansina,
shown in (8.1), from a 64-year-old speaker.
(8.1) . . . purque a mãi não era capá e ansina eu o
because the mother neg was able and like.this I him
tiré dali.
pulled.out from-there
‘because mum was not able and so I pulled him out of there like this.’
Although today ancina or asina in Spanish is rarely if ever heard, it was still
present in literary texts up until the twentieth century; analysis of this trait,
196 Barranquenho
thus, cannot give us an accurate indication of when Barranquenho may have
formed.3
However, given the history of Barrancos, a reasonable assumption is that
Barranquenhos have been bilingual in Portuguese and Spanish at least since
the beginning of the seventeenth century, and possibly earlier. (Recall that in
1527 the majority of the Barrancos inhabitants were Spanish speakers.) I
suggest that Barranquenho is the result of the Barrancos inhabitants intro-
ducing Spanish-language traits into their variety of Portuguese, and that over
time these traits came to form part of an emerging linguistic variety that
conventionalized as Barranquenho. I will discuss evidence for this in the next
section. A major factor in the formation of this variety, I argue, is the rise of
consciousness among the speakers of the village that they are unique. That is,
they came to see themselves as neither Portuguese nor Spanish, or both
Portuguese and Spanish, as evidenced by the quotation above provided by
Leite de Vasconcelos. And, although their identity of being culturally and
linguistically unique has definitely been in place since around the 1880s,
Barranquenhos still preferred Spanish to Portuguese and Barranquenho until
recently. An eleven-year-old informant reported in 2003 that, ‘the most aged
people in Barrancos, the oldest, they almost all speak Spanish, they don’t
speak Barranquenho. It’s now that they are beginning to speak Barran-
quenho.’4
I assume that this was the case both for practical reasons and for
reasons involving the prestige of Spanish. At present Barranquenho has
become a cultural badge of the Barranquenhos. They maintain it because it
marks them as culturally unique. It also serves to promote their community
3
The information in the table below indicates that that ancina and asina were used up until the
twentieth century in written Spanish (data taken from the CREA data base maintained by the
Real Academia Española). Based on these data, Barranquenho could have formed as early as
the sixteenth century and as late as the end of the nineteenth century.
Form
ancina asina ası́
Tokens Docs. Tokens Docs. Tokens Docs.
Year
1400–99 5 0 16,568 687
1500–99 23 15 59 37 54,281 1214
1600–99 6 6 15 10 37,486 1097
1700–99 3 3 21 4 11,068 1380
1800–99 29 11 29 9 35,568 1622
1900–99 213 25 93 20 50,485 2379
4
The original reads: ‘I ah pesóah mái idoza de Barrancu, a mái belha falom quazi todah a
ehpanhola, nãu falom barranquenhu. Agora é que já bãu falandu barranquenhu.’
8.2 Historical background of the Barrancos area 197
cohesion. That Barranquenhos are aware of this is suggested by the same
eleven-year-old informant. Responding to the question about with whom he
speaks Barranquenho and where, he says:
[I speak Barranquenho] with friends, in school no, with friends, with older people
sometimes . . . With my family I speak Barranquenho and with my friends, and all. It’s
only in school that I don’t speak Barrenquenho, I speak it sometimes.5
The next section looks at a list of features that define Barrenquenho as a
contact variety.
8.3 Some defining features of Barranquenho
Some of the key features of Barranquenho discussed in this section are found
in the Portuguese dialect of the area, called Alentejano. Others, by contrast,
are clear cases of influence from Spanish. I discuss phonological as well as
morphological, morphosyntactic, and lexical features, comparing them,
where relevant, to the features of regional Portuguese and Spanish.
Whereas the Spanish vowel system consists of only the five oral phonemes
/i, e, a, o, u/ and no nasal phonemes, and all five vowels can appear in pre-
tonic, tonic, and post-tonic positions, in Portuguese there are eight oral
phonemes /i, e, e, e, a, c, o, u/, of which [i, _
t, e, u] are found in pre-tonic and
post-tonic non-final position and [_
t, e, u] in post-tonic final position.6
In
addition, Portuguese also has the five nasal phonemes /ı̃, ẽ, e, õ, ũ/ (Cunha and
Lindley Cintra 1994:36–40). Thus, the Portuguese vowel system has not only
three more oral vowel phonemes than Spanish but also a series of nasal
phonemes for which Spanish has no nasal counterparts. And, given the dif-
ferent distribution of Portuguese vowels in stressed and unstressed positions,
it is apparent that in unstressed positions there is reduction and/or raising
whereas this is not the case in Spanish.
Given these considerable differences in the vowel inventories between the two
languages, and the sensitivity to stressed and unstressed position in Portuguese, a
reasonable expectation would be that if there originally were predominantly
Castilian speakers in Barrancos, some Spanish traits would be introduced into
the emerging variety that would later become Barranquenho. That is, we might
expect to find a reduced vowel inventory in Barranquenho relative to Portuguese
and/or a lack of vowel reduction and/or raising in unstressed position and/or a
possible lack of nasal vowels. However, neither Leite de Vasconcelos (1955:19)
5
Com uz amigu, na ehcola nãu, com uz amigu, com otra pesóa asim máih belha àh bêzi . . . Com
a minha famı́lia fálu barranquênhu i com u mez amiguh, içu tudu. So na ehcola é que nãu fálu
barranquênhu, fálu à bêzih.
6
The sound [_
t] is defined as a high central vowel.
198 Barranquenho
nor I found such features in Barranquenho. That is, the speakers of Barranquenho
whose speech I have studied have no apparent lack of reduction or lack of nasal
vowels, nor is their oral vowel inventory reduced in any transparent way. What
we do find, however, is vowel raising to [i] of /e/ in post-tonic final position, as in
the sentence in (8.2), where the standard Portuguese version is given under the
sentence in Barranquenho.
(8.2) Alguma bezi tibi e? São Marcu da Ataboêra.
Algumas vezes estive em São Marcos da Ataboêra.
Some times I was in Saint Mark of Ataboêra.
‘Sometimes I was in Saint Mark of Ataboêra.’ (female, 86 years old:4)
Note that the post-tonic final vowel in bezi [bé-zi] and tibi [tı́-bi] have been
raised to [i]. This phenomenon is a regional one, also found in the Portuguese
dialect of the area.7
With regard to the consonants, Barrancos possesses various traits that are
clearly not Portuguese but found in Extremeño Spanish. Before discussing
these, I compare the consonant inventories of Portuguese and Spanish, given
in (8.3) and (8.4) respectively.
(8.3) / p, b, t, d, k, g, w /
/ f, (v), s, z, j, š, ž /
/ l, r, 
r, k, (
R
)/
/ m, n, ñ/
(8.4) / p, b, t, d, k, g, w/
/ f, s, y, (k), x /
/ č /
/ l, r, 
r/
/ m, n, ñ/
Comparing the two consonant inventories, we see that Spanish has a reduced
set of fricatives in that it lacks /v/, /z/, /ž/, and /š/. Although Portuguese has
three types of rhotics /r,
r, r/, /r/ is found in urban speech and, as we shall see,
in the speech of the younger speakers, whereas /
r/ is found in rural areas,
which includes the region where Barrancos is located (see Cunha and Lindley
Cintra 1994:32). And although Standard Portuguese and dialectal Portuguese
of the Barrancos area distinguish between /b/ and /v/, this distinction is not
found in Barranquenho; instead both orthographic v and b are realized as
[b] or [b]. This cannot be traced to dialectal Portuguese given that the lack of
/b/–/v/ is found only north of a line from Coimbra to Bragança (Cunha and
7
To obtain an idea of the linguistic traits in the Alentejano speech, samples taken from Serpa
were consulted, a town approximately 60 km west-south-west of Barrancos. The sound files are
made available by the Instituto Camões and are available at their website (www.instituto-
camoes.pt/cvc/hlp/geografia/mapa06.html). Thanks to Ana Luis for informing me of the audio
files of the different Portuguese dialects.
8.3 Some defining features of Barranquenho 199
Lindley Cintra 1994:11–13; Teyssier 1984:48–49). Thus, the fact that many
Barranquenho speakers have /
r/ instead of /
R
/ is a trait of Barrancos-area
Portuguese, whereas the non-distinction between /b/ and /v/ is arguably due to
Spanish influence.
In Barranquenho, we find three other phonology-related phenomena that
are clearly due to contact with Extremeño Spanish. In Extremeño Spanish, as
in Andalusian Spanish, the aspiration or deletion of syllable-final -s and the
deletion of word-final -r and -l are commonplace (Hualde, Olarrea, and
Escobar 2001:337).8
Similarly, we find that this phenomenon is also wide-
spread in Barranquenho (see also Leite de Vasconcelos 1955:43–44). Some
illustrative examples are given in (8.5). For Barranquenho, the aspiration and
deletion of syllable-final -s has attracted most attention, as is evident from the
studies by Navas Sánchez-Élez (1992, 1994, 1996, 1997, 2001), while the
deletion of -r and -l have not been studied in detail. I have found abundant
examples of -r deletion, but no examples of -l deletion.
(8.5a) Purque antiØ . . . nóØ não tinhamuØ possi para
porque antes . . . nós não tinhamos posse para
pagáØ esa coiza i aquela mulhéØ com qualquéØ
pagar essa coisa e aquela mulher com qualquer
coizinha que a genti le daba ela ficaba contenti (F86:10–11)
coisinha que a gente lhe daba ela ficava contente.
‘Because before we didn’t have the means to pay for that type of thing
and that woman, she was content with whatever the people gave her.’
(8.5b) Eu trabalhu na ehcola, trabalhu com u primêru ciclu, sô auxiliá. (F33:9)
Eu trabalho na escola, trabalho com o primeiro ciclo, sou auxiliar.
‘I work in the school, I work with the first cycle [primary
school], I’m an assistant.’
(8.5c) No, uh da nosa sala queremuØ fazéØ isu. (male, 11 years old:191)
Nós, os da nossa sala queremos fazer isso.
‘We, the ones from our school year, we want to do that.’
In Barranquenho, word-final /s/ as [z] is retained where the following
word begins with a vowel and re-syllabication takes place. An illustrative
example of this common phenomenon in Barranquenho is given in
(8.6). Leite de Vasconcelos (1955:13–14) also mentions this as a trait of
Barranquenho.9
(8.6) a já doj zanuh (F19:96)
há já dois anos
‘two years ago’
8
It is noteworthy that texts such as Lapesa (1981) and Penny (1991) do not mention the deletion
of word-final liquids, but refer only to their neutralization.
9
This scholar also notes (1955:48) that there is retention of -r when it appears intervocalically
across word boundaries, as in senhó rAntónio [se- ñó-ran-tó-njo] (< senhor António).
200 Barranquenho
As mentioned above, Barranquenho speakers generally display no dis-
tinction between /b/ and /v/ and have /
r/ instead of /
R
/. However, some
younger speakers, an 11-year-old boy and a 19-year-old girl, both have /
R
/,
but both a 14-year-old boy and a 24-year-old young man exhibit /
r/. Thus, the
possibility exists that the choice between /
r/ and /
R
/ is sensitive to socio-
linguistic considerations and still needs to be studied.
Finally, we saw above that Portuguese distinguishes between /s/ and /z/,
whereas Spanish possesses only /s/. In Barranquenho, the speakers whose
speech we examined maintained the distinction between /s/ and /z/
consistently.10
With regard to morphology, one might expect Barranquenho speakers’
speech to contain irregular Spanish verb forms with frequently used verbs.
That is, if Barranquenho speakers favoured Spanish and were dominant in it
until recently, we would expect to find forms such as Spanish estuve ‘I was’
instead of Portuguese estive. However, this does not seem to be the case. In
the speech of a 63-year-old man who regularly uses Spanish in his daily life,
we do find evidence of irregular Spanish verbs in his Barranquenho (e.g.,
i ehtube trêzanu lá [Portuguese e estive trêze anos lá] ‘and I was there for
thirteen years’). For his part, Leite de Vasconcelos (1955) does not comment
on any morphological phenomena other than Spanish forms of the same verb
((s)tobe from estuvo ‘s/he was’) and the use of the diminutive -ito, not found
in speech samples that make up our corpus.
It is in Barranquenho morphosyntax that we find the most revealing
influence from Spanish. Between Portuguese and Spanish there is a clear
contrast regarding how the progressive aspect is expressed. While Portuguese
employs the construction estar a þ verb-inf, as in nós estamos a fazer o
trabalho ‘we are doing the work’, Spanish uses the construction estar þ verb-
ger, as in nosotros estamos haciendo el trabajo ‘we are doing the work’. In
Barranquenho, the more commonly used construction to express the pro-
gressive aspect is clearly the Spanish construction. Illustrative examples are
given in (8.7).
(8.7a) Me casei tarde, ehtaba já trabalhando. (F52:133–134)
‘I married late, I was already working.’
(8.7b) Nu se si sabi, ondi ehtãu fazendu u cini teatru. (M11:126)
‘I don’t know whether you know, [the place] where they’re making the
theatre.’
(8.7c) . . . i minha irmã ehtaba bailandu. (F31:124)
‘. . . and my sister was dancing.’
10
Only one speaker, who had a Spanish-speaking boyfriend, occasionally devoiced /z/, as in
[ká-se] ‘house’ instead of [ká-ze].
8.3 Some defining features of Barranquenho 201
Another phenomenon common in Spanish, but unknown in Portuguese, is
indirect object doubling, shown in (8.8).
(8.8) Le cuento una historia a Marta.
io.3s tell-1s a story to Marta
‘I tell/am telling a story to Marta.’
This construction is exceedingly common in Barranquenho. In (8.9),
examples from three of the informants are shown.
(8.9a) Le conté a meu pai . . . (M11:61)
io.3s told-1s to my father
‘I told my father . . .’
(8.9b) i u le disse asi au otru . . . (M11:215)
and one io.3s said-3s so to-the other
‘and one said to another . . .’
(8.9c) i eu lhe disse à rapariga (M64:64)
and I io.3s said-3sg to the girl
‘and I said to the girl . . .’
(8.9d) i lhe pedi a uma colega minha . . (F26:176)
and io.3s requested-1sg to a colleague mine
‘and I asked a colleague of mine . . .’
Another phenomenon apparent in the examples in (8.9) is the placement of
the clitics le and lhe. To be able to understand the significance of clitic
placement in Barranquenho, it will help to explain briefly here how the
phenomenon works in both Portuguese and Spanish.11
In Portuguese, pro-
clisis is found after certain operators, such as negation markers (8.10),
quantifiers (8.11), and indefinite pronouns such as ‘someone’ (8.12), as well
as certain adverbs (8.13).
(8.10) O João não a viu no cinema ontem.
the João neg her saw in-the cinema yesterday
‘João didn’t see her at the cinema yesterday.’
(8.11) Tudo a chateia.
all her bothers
‘Everything bothers her.’
(8.12) Alguém me telefonou ontem.
Someone me telephoned yesterday
‘Someone phoned me yesterday.’
(8.13) Apenas/até o João te reconheceu na televisão.
Only/even the João you.obj recognized in-the television.
‘Only/even João recognized you on television.’
11
Unless otherwise indicated, the information regarding clitic placement in Portuguese,
Barranquenho, and Spanish is taken from Mira Mateus et al. (1989) and Clements and
Lorenzino (2006).
202 Barranquenho
Proclisis in Portuguese is also obligatory if there is a non-canonical topica-
lized element in sentence-initial position, such as an object or an adjunct. An
example is shown in (8.14).
(8.14) Dele se sabe pouca coisa.
of-him passive knows little thing
‘Of him little is known.’
In addition, proclisis is required in subordinate clauses, illustrated by the
example in (8.15).
(8.15) Disseram-me que o João a viu no cinema ontem.
told-3pl-me that the João her saw in-the cinema yesterday
‘They told me that João saw her at the cinema yesterday.’
Thus, in Portuguese certain operators and certain pragmatically driven word
orders call for proclisis. This also holds for compound verbs (i.e., aux þ
verb) and modal constructions. Finally, proclisis is required in subordinate
clauses, which is true of simple as well as compound tenses.
In contrast to the environments in which proclisis is the norm, enclisis is
required in Portuguese finite matrix clauses in which there is no pragmatically
driven non-canonical word order and no presence of the aforementioned
operators. Examples are given in (8.16–8.18).
(8.16) O João viu-a no cinema ontem.
the João saw-her in-the cinema yesterday
‘João saw her at the cinema yesterday.’
(8.17) O João tem-a visto últimamente.
the João has-her seen lately
‘João has seen her lately.’
(8.18) O João deve-te reconhecer /deve reconhecer-te
only the João you.obj should recognize /should recognize-you.obj
‘Only João should recognize you.’
According to Luis (2004), enclisis in Portuguese appears to be expanding its
domains, independently of age group, socio-economic class, or education
level, such that it is becoming the default order in Portuguese, independently
of what type of clause it appears in and what type of auxiliary or adverbial it
appears with.
In Spanish, clitic placement obeys a different set of rules from those found in
Portuguese.Proclisisisobligatorywithfiniteindicativeverbforms,withorwithout
an auxiliary (see (8.19)) and negative imperative verb forms (see (8.20)).
(8.19a) Juanita lo compró
Juanita it bought
‘Juanita bought it.’
8.3 Some defining features of Barranquenho 203
(8.19b) Juanita lo ha comprado.
Juanita it has bought
‘Juanita has bought it.’
(8.20) ¡No lo hagas!
neg it do-imp-2sg
‘Don’t do it!’
Enclisis in Spanish is obligatory in finite imperative verb forms (see (8.21)),
and all non-finite forms (see (8.22)).
(8.21) ¡Hazlo!
do-imp-it
‘Do it!’
(8.22a) Después de hacerlo. . .
after of do-inf-it
‘After doing it . . .’
(8.22b) Después de haberlo hecho . . .
after of have-inf-it done
‘After having done it . . .’
(8.22c) Buscándolo por toda la casa . . .
looking.for-it through all the house
‘Looking for it throughout the house . . .’
(8.22d) Habiendolo buscado por toda la casa . . .
having-it looked.for through all the house
‘Having looked for it throughout the house . . .’
With many modals, proclisis or enclisis is found, as illustrated by the
examples in (8.23).
(8.23a) Juan te debe ayudar.
Juan you.obj should help-inf
‘Juan should help you.’
(8.23b) Juan debe ayudarte.
Juan should help-inf-you.obj
‘Juan should help you.’
The one environment in which Portuguese and Spanish object pronoun clitic
placement does not coincide is in finite matrix clauses with no pragmatically
driven non-canonical word order and no presence of a proclisis-triggering
element in Portuguese. In these cases, Portuguese exhibits enclisis and Spanish
proclisis. I focus here on these particular environments in Barranquenho.
Based on the data from the twenty-two speakers whose transcribed speech
made up my Barranquenho corpus, the general trend is for the Barranquenho
speakers to follow Spanish clitic placement. Specifically, all Barranquenho
speakers represented in our corpus who used third-person indirect object
clitics in matrix clauses exhibited proclisis, as in Spanish (even when there
were no discourse markers to trigger this morphosyntactic behaviour), and not
204 Barranquenho
enclisis, as in Portuguese. Some examples are shown in (8.9) above. This
aspect of Barranquenho was noted by Navas Sánchez-Élez (1992:239), who
writes that clitic placement in Barranquenho is unlike that in Portuguese and
more like that found in Andalusian Spanish, citing the example a furmiga le
disse que sim [lit. the ant him/her told that yes] ‘the ant told him/her “yes” ’
which in standard colloquial Portuguese would be commonly rendered as a
furmiga disse-lhe que sim.12
For my purposes here, I focus on third-person indirect object clitics
because they allow comparability: both the Portuguese and the Spanish form
possess a CV structure (Portuguese lhe(s) /ke(s)/ and Spanish le /le/).13
The
study carried out by Clements and Lorenzino (2006) examined general clitic
placement, including direct object and indirect object clitics, in four male
speakers of Barranquenho. Two age groups were distinguished: the younger
group was made up of two individuals of eleven and fourteen years old; the
older group comprised two speakers, sixty-four and eighty-three years old. As
described in the study, the relation of these individuals to Spanish varies. The
two boys do not deal with Spanish on a daily basis, although it can be
assumed that they have had exposure to it and understand it. The 64-year-old
speaker uses Spanish in his daily life and at home with his family, while the
83-year-old does not use it on a day-to-day basis, but knows it. Of course,
the study focuses only on clitic placement in those contexts in which
Portuguese requires enclisis and Spanish proclisis. Table 8.1 displays the
12
Navas Sánchez-Élez also mentions another non-standard order variation in Barranquenho, as
in me se saem as canas [lit. me refl come.out the grey-hairs] ‘I’m getting grey hair’, where
the pronominal clitic order is ‘refl þ me’ in Andalusian Spanish. In this particular case, it
seems that clitic ordering relative to one another is due to influence of a non-standard variety
of Andalusian Spanish, as in Portuguese it does not occur in any variety (Ana Luis, personal
communication, 27 March 2006).
13
The phonological shape of the third-person direct object clitic pronouns in Portuguese and
Spanish is quite different (Portuguese o [u], a [e], os [uš], as [eš] vs Spanish lo [lo], la [la], los
[los], las [las]). This makes a comparison more complex. It remains a project for the future.
Table 8.1. The instances of enclisis and proclisis in the
speech of four male Barranquenho speakers
Speaker Proclisis Enclisis No. of words in text
#1 (age 11) 25 – 5582
#2 (age 14) 34 – 3504
#3 (age 64) 52 – 4927
#4 (age 83) 16 12 5394
8.3 Some defining features of Barranquenho 205
results of the study. The results indicate that clitic placement in the relevant
environment in the speech of three of the speakers is similar or identical to the
system found in Spanish. The oldest speaker exhibited both proclisis and
enclisis, though there was a preference for the former.
Not only do Barranquenho speakers display proclisis where Portuguese has
enclisis, but in many cases they also have adopted the form of the clitic. For
example, five of the twenty-two informants use the Spanish form le almost
exclusively, another five use both lhe and le in their conversation. Six
speakers chose lhe almost exclusively and six others did not use the forms in
the controlled conditions.
Another phenomenon involving clitics where Portuguese and Spanish
differ substantially is the case of double pronominalization, as in John gave
her it or John gave it to her. Double pronominalization in Portuguese involves
a coalescence of the indirect object pronoun lhe and the direct object pronoun
(o, a, os, as) to lho, lhos, lha, or lhas. In Spanish, the indirect object pronoun
in double pronominalization has evolved from le via že to se and the direct
object pronouns are lo, los, la, and las. Thus, the corresponding combinations
are se lo, se los, se la, se las. As is apparent, these combinations do not
undergo any type of coalescence and thus are relatively more transparent than
their Portuguese counterparts. While we find examples of both in our corpus,
the more frequently occurring construction is the Spanish one. Illustrative
examples are given in (8.24).
(8.24a) Se lu tenhu que dizé. (F28:364)
io.3s it have-1sg comp tell
‘I have to tell it to her.’
(8.24b) Arranjou uma cordiom que se lhu benderom. (F86:196–197)
arranged.3sg an accordion that io.3sg do.3sg-it sold-3pl
‘He arranged an accordion that they sold to him.’
Yet another Spanish trait is the non-anaphoric use of se in an impersonal or
passive construction or as an aspectual or emphatic marker, whereby se
appears in pre-verbal position. This is commonly found in Barranquenho and
illustrated by the example in (8.25). In the corresponding Portuguese con-
struction, se would follow the verb.14
(8.25) Se comia ali, se tocaba zambomba. (F86:196)
SE eat-imper there SE play-imper drum
‘They ate there, and they played drums.’
(8.26) I se lhe daba uma gorjeta para eli. (F57:142–143)
and SE io.3s give-imper a tip for him
‘And he was given a tip.’
14
Regarding the different functions of non-anaphoric se in Spanish, see Clements 2006.
206 Barranquenho
Leite de Vasconcelos (1955:39) mentions that this trait also appears in the
Barranquenho texts he collected.
Another trait found in Barranquenho that is clearly Spanish is the argument
structure of the gustar-type experience verbs. While in Portuguese the
experiencer of gostar ‘like’ is coded as the subject of the sentence, in Spanish
the experiencer is coded as the indirect object. Relevant examples are shown
in (8.27), taken from the same Barranquenho speaker.
(8.27a) Eu gostaria também de falá um bocadinho milhó. (F52:291)
I would.like also comp speak-inf a little better
‘I would also like to speak a little bit better.’
(8.27b) para eu fazé uma coisa que a mim tanto me gohtaba (F52:76–78)
for I do-infa thing comp to me so.much me like-imper
‘for me to do a thing that I like so much’
(8.27c) A primera beh nãu le guhtó muitu. (F19:113)
the first time neg io.3sg liked much
‘The first time, he didn’t like it much.’
We find both argument structures in Barranquenho, sometimes produced by one
and the same speaker, such as in the examples in (8.27a, b). However, it is not
necessarily the case that Spanish gustar has the experiencer IO and Portuguese
gostar is found with an experiencer subject. Rather, it is more often the case that
the form gostar (or gohtar) is found in both constructions.
One last phenomenon deserves mention as a distinctive trait of Barran-
quenho. The word bueno ‘good’ ([bueno] or [buenu] in Barranquenho) is a
discourse filler, much like well is used in English. In (8.28), I give a set of
examples taken from speakers of different sexes and ages. It is one of the only
single Spanish words found in Barranquenho.
(8.28a) I depoih disi, buenu ehta mulhé i salta ela asim. (M24:442)
and then said-1sg good this woman and jumps she like.this
‘And then I said, well, this woman here, and then she jumps like this.’
(8.28b) Quandu eu ehtaba na França dizia: mete-te
when I was in-the France say-imper put-yourself
na ehcola, buenu que não aprendeu nem o nomi.
(M64:101–102)
in-the school good comp neg learned-3sg not.even the name
‘When I was in France, she said ‘Get in school!’ Well, she didn’t
even learn the name [of the school].’
(8.28c) Um assuntu meu da minha bida, não?
a matter my of-the my life, neg
Buenu poi eu anti moraba nu campu, purque me pai
well then I before live-imper in-the country, because my parents
morabom nu campu e fui criada nu campu.
(F33:71–72)
live-imper-pl in-the country and was-1sg raised-ppart in-the country
‘An episode of mine from my life, right? Well then, before I used to live
8.3 Some defining features of Barranquenho 207
in the country because my parents lived in the country and I was raised in
the country.’
(8.28d) Já não me lembru comu é esa cantiga,
anymore neg refl remember how is that song
tã bunita que é. Buenu ali tocabom
so beautiful comp is good there play-imper-pl
a zambomba se bailaba. (F86:205–206)
the drum SE dance-imper-sg
‘I don’t remember anymore how that song goes, as beautiful as
it is. Well, they played the drum there and there was dancing.’
To sum up this section, I have reviewed some of Barrenquenho’s dis-
tinctive traits that make it different, especially from Portuguese. Naturally,
those traits represent Spanish influence, facilitated by the fact that this variety
is spoken on the border with Spain. The traits I have described and illustrated
are: the non-distinction of /b/ and /v/; the aspiration or deletion of syllable-
final -s; deletion of word-final -r, the ‘estar verb þ -ndu’ construction for the
progressive instead of ‘estar a þ verb-inf’; indirect object doubling, as in le
conté a meu pai [lit. io.3sg told-1sg to my father] ‘I told my father’; pre-
placement instead of post-placement of indirect object clitics in main clauses;
double pronominalization following the Spanish model, as in i se lhe daba
uma gorjeta para eli [lit. and SE io.3s give-imperf a tip for him] ‘and he
was given a tip’; pre-placement of non-anaphoric se; the existence of the
dative experiencer construction gustar le a uno [lit. like-inf io.3sg to one]
instead of the nominative experiencer construction gostar de [lit. like-inf
of]; and the existence of bueno ‘good’ as a discourse connector. All these
traits are traceable to Spanish.
8.4 Concluding remarks
From the historical overview, it is clear that Portuguese and Spanish in the
Barrancos area have been in contact for centuries. This means that although
Spanish has been the prestige variety and seems to still hold this role, there
has been a strong presence of stable bilingualism in Barrancos for some time,
well before Barrancos definitively and undisputedly became part of Portugal
at the beginning of the twentieth century, and quite possibly before it was first
made part of Portugal at the beginning of the nineteenth century.
The traits that define Barranquenho are notably the Spanish traits discussed
in section 8.3. The non-distinction of /b/ and /v/, the aspiration or deletion of
syllable-final -s, and deletion of word-final -r are clear indications that
Extremeño Spanish has had a major influence on Barranquenho. How would
such traits make their way into this variety of Portuguese? It seems likely that
they were carried into Portuguese by a population that was predominantly
Spanish-speaking who applied the same rules to Portuguese -s and -r that
208 Barranquenho
apply in Extremeño Spanish. I submit that reducing the Portuguese vowel
system from eight to five or doing away with Portuguese nasal phonemes
could conceivably have impeded intelligibility. This may be a reason why the
Spanish speakers of Barrancos who targeted Portuguese did not reduce the
Portuguese vowel system or de-nasalize any vowels.
All other Barranquenho traits discussed in the previous section are those
that do not undermine intelligibility: the ‘estar verb þ -ndu’ construction for
the progressive, indirect object doubling, proclisis of indirect object clitics
and non-anaphoric se in main clauses, double pronominalization, and the use
of gustar le a uno are arguably traits that are close enough to their Portuguese
counterpart construction not to cause any problems of intelligibility. In the
case of a clear adoption of Spanish function words, the indirect object pro-
nouns le and les are sufficiently close to their Portuguese counterparts not to
create comprehension difficulties. Thus, not only do many Barranquenho
speakers maintain the Spanish position of the indirect object pronouns but
they also maintain the Spanish form le and les. Note, however, that – with the
exception of buenu – Spanish-language vocabulary is rarely used in our
corpus, and the occasions in which Spanish is used are not easily classified.
They could be cases of code-switching (the more likely option) or cases of
lexical transfer. The Spanish lexical items found in Barranquenho are dis-
course connectors. Apart from buenu, we find one example of Spanish pueš
(< pues) ‘well, then’, but in the vast majority of cases Portuguese-derived poi
(< pois) was used.
The creation of Barranquenho was in my view driven initially by pre-
dominantly Spanish-speaking people learning Portuguese because of socio-
political circumstances. The maintenance and cultivation of Barranquenho
are, I argue, cases of the development of a cultural identity sparked by these
political circumstances. The Barranquenhos found that their cultural identity
was neither entirely Spanish nor entirely Portuguese, but a hybrid of the two
cultures. I hypothesize that, as consciousness of this fact began to grow, a
linguistic identity began to take form among them. What we have today in
Barrancos, I suggest, is a linguistic variety that solidified out of a cultural
identity that was shaped by local and socio-political developments.
8.4 Concluding remarks 209
9 Contact, cognition, and speech community
In this volume, I have appealed to a usage-based model of grammar based on
Emergent Grammar and the evolutionary model of language change (Croft
2000; Mufwene 2001) to help us understand the make-up of an array of
contact language varieties involving Portuguese and/or Spanish. I started with
the assumption that in an incipient pidgin, as well as in a full-fledged lan-
guage, grammar develops in discourse. I have assumed, and in some cases
demonstrated, that the frequency of use of linguistic features, both lexical and
structural, is crucial to the development of a linguistic system. I have also
assumed that the notion of speech community is key for understanding how
language varieties become defined.
From an evolutionary perspective, the analogy of a language as a species
allows us to view it as consisting of lexical and structural features (the
analogues of genes in biology) and sets of such features (called a feature pool)
that are used to encode human communication (communicative intercourse)
within speech communities (a group routinely engaged in communicative
intercourse in a given language). In these terms, the definition of what a
language is becomes one based on the behaviour of individual human beings
in a group rather than on any set of abstract linguistic traits. Thus, although
the varieties spoken in Portugal and Brazil are quite different on various
levels of grammar, both are considered varieties of Portuguese due to the
close socio-political and cultural connections on many levels between the two
countries.
Given that the emergence of contact language varieties involves language
acquisition, both first and second, it is constrained by different types of
bootstrapping (Bates and Goodman 1999) as well as by hypotheses such as
the Primacy of Aspect Hypothesis and the Distribution Bias Hypothesis
(Andersen 1983; Andersen and Shirai 1996). Thus, an immigrant learning a
second language naturalistically would first learn lexical items before func-
tional elements and would learn verbal forms as they are used with certain
verbs (e.g., acquiring imperfect forms of stative verbs first).
Regarding the actual formation and development of linguistic structure,
I have aligned myself with Goldberg’s (1999) view that grammar formation is
210
affected by a combination of linguistic input, functional demands of com-
munication, and general cognitive abilities and constraints. In acquiring or
building a grammar, both in L1 or L2 acquisition, I have followed Bates and
Goodman (1999) in assuming that we use several different types of boot-
strapping, building more complex structures upon simpler, more basic
structures. This happens, I argue, not only in parent-to-offspring language
transmission, but – importantly – in adult-to-adult communication, as well.
Finally, in order to understand well the make-up of a contact variety, I have
noted that other factors must be taken into consideration, namely, (1) the
content and structural features of the languages involved in the contact
situation; (2) the number of languages and the number of speakers of each
language; (3) the relative markedness of the competing features in the feature
pool; (4) dominance relations among speakers of the different languages or
groups thereof; and (5) the parts of the feature pool that different speakers had
access to. A majority of these factors were operative in the formation of
central and western Iberian Romance.
While the Romanization of the Tartesian and Iberian populations on the
coasts of the peninsula took place relatively swiftly and completely, central
and western Iberia (inhabited by the Basques, Celtiberians, Lusitanians, and
Galicians) were colonized by Rome only after centuries of fighting. The
Roman population was small compared to the indigenous population in this
region, and the population resisted Romanization for a long period. In such a
demographic situation and taking into account the strong attitudes of the
indigenous population against assimilation, one would expect key substrate
features from the Celtic languages to find their way into the Romance variety
that was eventually adopted. This is indeed the case. We find good evidence
of the Celtic substrate in the phonology, morphology, and lexicon of both
Spanish and Portuguese (chapter 2). At the same time, a key development in
the history of the peninsula allows us to understand the relative uniformity of
the Latin variety that developed into Portuguese and Castilian. The Arabic
invasion in 711 altered the cultural reference points of the peninsula: the
once-influential southern centres (Mérida, Seville, Cartagena, and Lisbon)
and central/eastern centres (Toledo, Tarragona, and Zaragoza) were replaced
by the north-central and northern centres of Oviedo, León, Burgos,
Compostela, Braga, and Barcelona. This gave the area predominance in the
creation of the Iberian Romance varieties that spread southward (Tovar
1977:95).
The notion of speech community, understood here in a political sense,
accounts for the emergence of Portuguese and Castilian as languages. Spe-
ciation of these languages was aided greatly, I argue, by the formation of the
kingdoms of Portugal and Castile, which I believe led to the development of
self-awareness on the part of the people. In turn, this led the people to
Contact, cognition, and speech community 211
recognize that what they spoke was different from the variety spoken by
people in another kingdom, principality, or county. The speciation of
Portuguese and Castilian as separate languages, then, was a function not
primarily of linguistic differentiation, but rather of socio-political differen-
tiation, a process that led to relative isolation in communicative intercourse
(analogous to reproductive isolation in biology), which in turn led to greater
linguistic differentiation among the two communities of speakers. As Castile
incorporated Leon and Asturias, the corresponding dialects came to be of
little consequence socio-politically. As Portugal and Castile re-conquered
ever more territory and were poised to expel the Moors from the Iberian
peninsula, they became two of the main power brokers there (along with
Catalonia). At the same time, both powers were looking to expand to new
regions. This rush to empire by Portugal and Spain set the stage for the
introduction of their respective languages into Africa, Asia, and the Americas.
One of the consequences of the Portuguese and Castilian colonial expan-
sion was the formation of Portuguese- and Spanish-based creoles. In southern
Portugal in the second half of the fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries there
was around a 10–15 per cent sub-Saharan black labourer population who
spoke, arguably, immigrant Portuguese. In chapter 3, I noted the similarity
between examples of immigrant speech today and Africans’ speech portrayed
in fifteenth- and sixteenth-century Portugal. Assuming a uniformitarian
principle operating in naturalistic second language acquisition, I argued that
such L2 varieties of African Portuguese were one integral part of the pidgin
Portuguese that formed along the West African coast during that time, key
features of which are also found in the Portuguese-based creoles. In my view,
this suggests a developmental connection between L2 Portuguese, pidgin
Portuguese, and certain tense–aspect features of the Portuguese-based creoles.
To highlight this, I compared affixal tense–aspect markers in the Portuguese-
and Spanish-based creoles. The presence of rare affixal morphology in
Portuguese- and Spanish-based creoles is shown to be a function of the degree
of homogeneity in each contact situation, as well as of the extent of subse-
quent contact between each creole and its corresponding lexifier language.
The extent both of contact and of typological kinship among the languages in
contact affected the nature of the linguistic feature pool available in the
formation and development of the creoles in question and, consequently,
affected the number and functions of affixes that found their way into the
creoles.
To illustrate individual development in these creoles, I also examined the
case-marking systems in the various creoles, noting that the African creoles
tend to conform to Croft’s (1991) Causal Order Hypothesis, whereas the
Asian creoles violate it. I showed that these violations can be traced back to
case-marking patterns in the substrate languages of the respective creoles.
212 Contact, cognition, and speech community
In the study of non-creole contact varieties, I looked at immigrant varieties,
namely, nineteenth-century bozal Spanish, nineteenth-century Chinese Coolie
Spanish, and contemporary Chinese Immigrant Spanish, as well as two
varieties that have developed in long-term language contact, Andean Spanish
and Barranquenho.
I discussed bozal Spanish in nineteenth-century Cuba in light of a new set of
documents: the correspondence between two philologists, Francis Lieber from
the United States and José de la Luz Caballero from Cuba, which took place in
1835. From the correspondence, we obtain new insights into the linguistic
nature of bozal Spanish. De la Luz’s documentation and commentary suggest
that in Cuba a Spanish-based creole never existed. This is supported by
extensive demographic data I provide on the make-up of Cuban society from the
1770s to the 1840s. Nevertheless, questions still remain because it is unclear
how familiar de la Luz was with all the plantations in Cuba at that time.
The linguistic evidence we have of nineteenth-century Chinese Coolie
Spanish in Cuba, along with the demographic evidence, suggests that this is
also a case of immigrant speech, though it has been called a pidgin. As
indentured labourers, the Chinese ‘coolies’ would have spoken Chinese
among themselves, most probably several dialects of Cantonese. While there
is anecdotal evidence that Foreigner Talk was used in addressing Chinese
coolies, there is no historical evidence that any re-structured variety of
Spanish emerged from the communication between Cubans and Chinese.
Given the facts that the practice of shipping labourers to Cuba from China
lasted only around thirty years, that the interaction of the Chinese with other
labourers was minimal, and that there is documentation that Chinese–English
interpreters were used, the conditions were not conducive to the creation of a
Chinese Pidgin Spanish variety. A comparison between Chinese Immigrant
Spanish and Chinese Coolie Spanish revealed that the two varieties are highly
similar and, at the same time, good examples of the ‘basic variety’ of nat-
uralistically learned L2 Spanish (Klein and Perdue 1992).
Based on data collected from two Chinese native speakers living in Madrid,
I analysed their naturalistically learned L2 Spanish, employing the lists of
features developed by Shi (1991) for Chinese Pidgin English. The informants
were chosen because they had learned Spanish naturalistically. Naturalistic L2
acquisition can be viewed as a first stage in the process of a shift to a target
language, potentially culminating in the total abandonment of one’s native
language for the target language. Viewing cases of naturalistic L2 acquisition
as a stage in the process of a potential language shift, individual solutions on
the one hand, and group solutions on the other, can be seen as two points on a
shift continuum. The individual solutions are best characterized as L2 varieties
with differing degrees of stability. The group solutions are considered to be
variably stable varieties among members of a group, i.e., pidgins or creoles.
Contact, cognition, and speech community 213
Each of the two informants whose speech I studied has developed indi-
vidual mappings from their native Chinese to the target language, Spanish.
The lexical features of their speech correspond in large measure to the gen-
erally accepted mappings, but others are clearly innovations, such as cases of
re-analysis. The verbal systems of our two informants turned out to be almost
a direct reflection of the input they received, calculated using a corpus of oral
Spanish from Spain. Moreover, there was evidence of the emergence of
aspectual markers in the use of ya ‘already’ and the past participial ending
-do. While the use of ya is reminiscent of the tense markers that emerged in
some Portuguese-based creoles, that of -do seems to correlate fairly con-
sistently with the use of the Chinese perfective marker -le. I also found that
the copula son was selected due to its perceptual salience relative to the much
more frequently used es. These varieties of Spanish are especially interesting
because they reflect the processes through which speakers of one language
acquire another that is typologically different and give us insights into the
initial stages of pidginization, which allow us a window into the formation for
Chinese Coolie Spanish, bozal Spanish, and African pidgin Portuguese.
In chapters 7 and 8, I discussed two contact language varieties with ecol-
ogies that were different from the ones studied so far: Andean Spanish and a
Portuguese variety known as Barranquenho. Although from the eighteenth
century onwards there was a move towards the Castilianization of the Andean
region, the great disproportion in numbers between native Quechua and native
Spanish speakers, as well as a colonization geared exclusively towards the
exploitation of indigenous labour, made impossible the widespread inter-
ethnic contact necessary for generalized bilingualism (Rivarola 1989:155,
160). Given these circumstances, approximative systems of Spanish in the
region are common from very early on (Cerrón-Palomino 2003:135–170) and
the type of bilingualism that has emerged reveals an extremely strong presence
of Quechua-language features. We still find pervasive evidence of approxi-
mative L2 Spanish systems, as well as evidence of monolingual varieties of
Andean Spanish that contain a high number of Quechua features. In a com-
parison of two monolingual varieties spoken in Mantaro Valley, Peru, and
Salta, Argentina, my goal was to examine whether such monolingual Spanish-
speaking communities exhibit some common traits. The comparison suggests
that these monolingual Spanish varieties, independently of one another,
developed many of the same or similar linguistic traits. A list of the common
traits found is given in (7.37), repeated for convenience in (9.1) below.
(9.1a) confusion of o–u and e–i
(9.1b) monophthongization ie ¼¼> i, ue ¼¼> u
(9.1c) use of the locative en ‘in’ with motion verbs and adverbs
(9.1d) lack of gender and number agreement
214 Contact, cognition, and speech community
(9.1e) generalization of the clitic lo as the object pronoun
(9.1f) use of the clitic lo to mark aspect (false pronominalization)
(9.1g) pervasive use of diciendo ‘saying’ and haciendo ‘doing’ in subordinate clause
constructions with similar interpretations in both situations
(9.1h) strong presence of verb-final (as opposed to verb-initial) VPs
(9.1i) frequent use of diminutives and of no más
Such a list of traits common to both monolingual varieties could have
emerged only if the demographic and socio-cultural conditions in the two
areas were similar, that is, if in each case there was a strong presence of
indigenous, Quechua-speaking people who provided an equally strong pres-
ence of Quechua features during the period of acquisition of Spanish.
Moreover, in monolingual Mantaro Valley and Salta, the mappings could not
have taken place without also assuming an extended period of bilingualism in
which Quechua was the heavily dominant language in terms of number of
speakers, if not in terms of relative prestige. In a personal communication
(4 March 2007), Cerrón-Palomino stated that there are as yet no studies that
treat the issue systematically. However, commenting on the situation in Peru,
he observes that in the cities certain traits of Andean Spanish (e.g., vowel
raising and lowering, non-standard use of the subjunctive) are perceived
negatively, while others, such as non-standard person and number agreement,
are hardly noticed and are accepted as normal. The point to be made here is
that, as a community, Andean Spanish speakers have not developed a positive
link between their cultural identity and the particular variety they speak.
In contrast, Barranquenho, a Portuguese variety spoken in Barrancos,
Portugal, is a relatively unstudied variety, notwithstanding the monograph by
Leite de Vasconcelos (1955) and the more recent work by Navas Sánchez-
Élez (1992, 1994, 1996, 1997, 2001). The Barrancos situation is interesting
because, over the centuries, the area has been claimed by both Portugal and
Spain. It is documented that a majority of Barrancos inhabitants spoke
Spanish natively in 1527 and Spanish has consistently been the prestige
variety, but there had been a strong presence of stable bilingualism in
Barrancos for a good while, well before Barrancos definitively and undis-
putedly became part of Portugal at the beginning of the twentieth century, and
quite possibly before it was first made part of Portugal at the beginning of the
nineteenth century.
First, there is a lack of Spanish influence evident in the Barranquenho
vowel system, except the occasional monophthongization of certain
Portuguese diphthongs. One would have expected a possible reduction of the
Portuguese eight-vowel oral system by one or more, or the de-nasalization of
nasalized vowel phonemes, but neither occurred. One possible reason for
this could be intelligibility: doing away with Portuguese nasal phonemes
or reducing the number of oral vowels would have impeded intelligibility.
Contact, cognition, and speech community 215
The defining phonological traits of Barranquenho involve consonants and are
also found in Extremeño Spanish: the aspiration or deletion of syllable-final -s
and deletion of word-final -r are indications that Extremeño Spanish has had a
major influence on the realization of Barranquenho consonants. Such traits
would become part of Barranquenho through semi-shift. That is, they would
be carried into Portuguese by a population that was predominantly Spanish-
speaking who applied the same rules to Portuguese -s and -r that apply in
Extremeño Spanish.
Like the phonological features of Barranquenho, its morphosyntactic traits
would also have no effect on intelligibility: the estar verb þ -ndu construc-
tion for the progressive, indirect object doubling, proclisis of indirect object
clitics and non-anaphoric se in main clauses, double pronominalization, and
the use of gustar le a uno. In the case of a clear adoption of a Spanish function
word, the indirect object pronouns le and les are sufficiently close to their
Portuguese counterparts, I argue, so as not to create problems for compre-
hension. Thus, not only do Barranquenho speakers maintain the Spanish
position of the indirect object pronouns but they also maintain the Spanish
form le and les. With regard to Spanish lexical items found in Barranquenho,
note that with the exception of buenu, Spanish-language vocabulary is rarely
used in Barranquenho, and the occasions where Spanish is used are instances
of code-switching. The items I did find were discourse connectors. For
example, there is one example of Spanish pueš (< pues) ‘well, then’, but in
the vast majority of cases, Portuguese-derived poi (< pois) was used.
Above I argued that the emergence of Portuguese and Castilian as lan-
guages was furthered by the creation of the kingdoms of Portugal and Spain.
The political boundary between the two kingdoms aided in the formation of a
political identity on the part of the speakers of each kingdom, as well as
creation of cultural expressions such as literature, etc., in the respective
languages. In the case of Barranquenho, Leite de Vasconcelos (1955) noted
that Barranquenhos saw themselves as neither Spanish nor Portuguese, but
had developed a unique identity. In interviews with the informants, some
expressed that they are definitely Portuguese, but those same informants also
defended the Barranquenhos’ right to obtaining an exception from the
national parliament so they could continue with the recently outlawed prac-
tice in Portugal of killing bulls in bull-fights, a centuries-old tradition still
followed in Spain. Thus, it is relatively safe to say that the creation of
Barranquenho was driven initially by predominantly Spanish-speaking people
learning Portuguese because of socio-political circumstances. However, the
maintenance and cultivation of Barranquenho are cases of the development of
a cultural identity, that is, the awareness on the part of Barrancos’s inhabitants
that they are culturally neither entirely Spanish nor entirely Portuguese but a
hybrid of the two. As consciousness of this fact began to grow, I suggest that
216 Contact, cognition, and speech community
a linguistic identity began to take form. The linguistic community in Bar-
rancos today developed from a cultural identity, which itself was shaped by
local and socio-political developments.
The contact varieties of Portuguese and Spanish I have examined in this
volume have been shaped by demographics and by prestige, as well as by
general cognitive abilities and constraints, and by the dynamics of speech
community.
Contact, cognition, and speech community 217
Appendix A: José de la Luz Caballero’s
responses to Francis Lieber’s eighteen questions
(original and translation)
Original
Con sumo gusto contesto a las preguntas del Dr. Francisco Lieber, asi por el
asunto sobre que versan, como porque tuve a placer de tratarle en Boston ‘at
Mrs. Kekam’s’, en cuyo boarding-house vivimos junto en agosto y setiembre
de 1828.
Casi todas las preguntas, y especialmente las 12 primeras, descansan en el
supuesto de que existe un dialecto criollo en la isla de Cuba distinto de la
lengua española, ası́ como hay criollo francés y otros dialectos de las demás
lenguas europeas en las colonias de otras naciones. Pero no es ası́, y diré
sencillamente lo único que hay en el particular. Los africanos corrumpen la
lengua cada uno a su modo, y esta corrupción consiste principalmente en el
modo de pronunciar, lo que, como bien claro se ve, no constituye un dialecto
especial, al que podamos darle el nombre de criollo. Esto es tan cierto, cuanto
que a los blancos nos es más fácil entender a unos negros más que otros, y a
los pertenecientes a una nación más que a los de otra: los congos v.g. se
esplican y pronuncian con más claridad que los carabalı́es; pero siempre es la
misma lengua española la que todos hablan, aunque estropeándola casi
individualmente dirı́amos. Sin embargo, hay algunos modos uniformes de
corromperla, y esto es natural, entre todos ellos particularmente en el campo,
no solo alterando uniformemente la pronunciación de ciertas voces, sino
también dándoles una significación diferente a veces y otras análoga a la
genuina. Por ejemplo, es muy comun que digan dos viages en lugar de dos
veces. Hay otra causa especial para que los españoles-europeos no los puedan
entender con tanta facilidad como nosotros, y es el tono o acento peculiar con
que pronuncian. Los estranjeros que hablan la lengua inglesa podrán graduar
el valor de esta observación; pues a ellos les debe constar que si no dan a las
palabras la entonación que acostumbran los ingleses, aun cuando pronuncien
bien cada letra, y hasta cada sı́laba, a duras penas son entendidos, si es que lo
son. Con este motivo no puedo menos de recordar un criado portugués que
218
conocı́ en Washington, el cual rara era la palabra inglesa que pronunciaba con
exactitud, particularmente en las finales, pero daba tan bien el énfasis y los
cortes del idioma, que de lejos le tomábamos por inglés, y de cerca era muy
bien entendido.
Hay además otros signos o palabras que son un lenguaje universal para los
negros recien-llegados de Africa (bozales), sea cual fuere la nación a que
pertenezcan; y esta circumstancia convence evidentemente que se las enseñan
en la factorı́as; y tanto más claro, cuanto que recaen sobre las más urgentes
necesidades y objetos más precisos. Es de advertir que las más de ellas son
conocidamente de origen inglés, y repitiendo la palabra de la raı́z; cosa muy
natural, pues todos repetimos cuando no nos entienden. Tales son lúcu lúcu
(look, look) ‘ver, mirar’; guashi guashi (wash, wash) ‘lavarse’, y otras a este
tenor. Pero este vocabulario no pasa de unas cuantas palabras indispensables
para entenderse con los negros en la navegación y en el barracón hasta que se
venden.
En cuanto al idioma provincial de los blancos del paı́s, no consiste mas que
en algunas espresiones y palabras sueltas, tanto que no podria escribirse, no
diré un libro, pero sı́ una nota de cuatro renglones con palabras y frases todas
criollas o provinciales. Sin embargo, las hay en mucho número, y pueden
clasificarse en los términos siguientes:
1. algunas, aunque poquı́simas comunes a toda la América española.
2. otras a la isla entera
3. otras peculiares a algunos distritos
4. otras, que siendo voces muy españoles se aplican indebidamente a otros
objetos, como sucede en la Habana y aun en general en todos los puertos
de mar de la Penı́nsula, donde es muy comun emplear voces marinas para
objetos familiares. Ası́ decimos botar en lugar de arrojar, aunque con-
ocemos y usamos por supuesto una voz tan comun como es arrojar.
5. otras que siendo también españoles, y no marinas, las empleamos en
distinta acepción: ası́ aquı́ entendemos generalmente por majadero un
hombre molesto (‘a troublesome fellow’) cuando en rigor es un zopenco
(‘a dunce’).
6. otras voces hay enteramente criollas, como que representan objetos
peculiares al paı́s, y por lo mismo no tienen equivalente en español. Y
otras finalmente que son sinónimos de las voces españoles.
Muy a los principios de establecida la sociedad patriótica de la Habana, por
los años de 1794 o ’95, se empezaron a recoger las palabras y espresiones
provinciales, a instancias de un distinguido socio eclesiástico. Pero hasta el
año del 1813, no vio la luz pública una pequeña colección de ellas, que como
muestra, publicó el Sr Dr José Castillo en uno de los números del periódico
Original 219
titulado el Patriota Americano del cual era uno de los redactores. Poster-
iormente, la sección de educación de la sociedad patriótica se ha ocupado y se
ocupa en enriquecer este diccionario provincial para publicarlo algún dı́a.
Pero aun cuando se publique, en nada puede servir para el objeto de las
investigaciones de nuestro apreciable filantropista el Dr Lieber. Pues siendo
ese vocabulario de la lengua de los blancos, en nada puede promover la
instrucción religiosa de los negros. Sin embargo, si gusta otro tor1
, como
objeto de curiosidad, o para otra especie de trabajos, supuesto que él es
también gran filólogo, puedo ocuparme en buscarle alguna copia o ejemplar
de lo que haya en el particular.
La única tentativa que se ha hecho de esplicar la doctrina cristiana a los
africanos en la misma lengua española corrompida, y con sı́miles, y en un
estilo más a su alcance (sobre todo al de los del campo, naturalmente más
atrasados) fue acometida en un cateqismo en forma de diálogo que para el uso
de los curas y capellanes del campo, compuso hace más de 30 años un
benemérito eclesiástico que también habı́a ejercido el ministerio, y se publicó
desde entonces. Pero este libro es tan raro, que la mayor parte, aun de los que
debı́an saberlo, ignoran su existencia, y muy pocos lo poseen. Yo mismo, que
soy tan buscador en este género, no lo vine a conocer hasta ahora dos años.
Escusaré hablar de su mérito o demérito, porque enviaré un ejemplar al
mismo Dr Lieber, tan luego como pueda ir a mi casa, pues actualmente me
hallo de temporada en el cerro, a una legua de la ciudad, y este papel, como se
echará de ver ası́ en su alma como en su cuerpo, va más que de prisa, por salir
mañana un buque para Nueva York, según se me aseguran y no quiero perder
la ocasión.
Únicamente advertiré que es costumbre que los curas y capellanes antes de
confesar y dar la comunión a los negros, les espliquen el dogma y la moral de
un modo que esté a su alcance, y por consiguiente usando un lenguaje cor-
rompido. En cuanto a predicar, siempre se hace en lengua castiza española,
bien que los negros del campo poco o nada oyen predicar, pues el precepto
del domingo se limita a oı́r misa o rezar el rosario. Y respecto a los negros de
las ciudades, que sı́ oyen muchas sermones, esas las entienden muy bien, y
aun mejor de lo que algunos blanco pudieran imaginarse.
Translation
With great pleasure, I answer the questions of Dr Francisco Lieber, because
of the issue they deal with, and also because I had the pleasure to make his
acquaintance in Boston, at Mrs Lekam’s, in whose boarding house we lived
together in August and September of 1828.
1
This is an abbreviation, which I have not been able to decipher.
220 José de la Luz Caballero’s responses
Almost all of the questions, and especially the first twelve, rest on the
assumption that there exists a creole dialect on the island of Cuba different
from the Spanish language, just as [we find a] French creole and other dialects
of the rest of the European languages in the colonies of other nations. But
this is not the case, and I will simply tell about the only thing there is in this
respect. The Africans corrupt the language, each in their own way, and this
corruption primarily consists in pronunciation, which, as can be clearly seen,
does not constitute a special dialect which we can call by the name creole.
This is true, given that we whites understand some blacks more easily than we
do other blacks, [just as we understand] people coming from a certain country
better than we do people from another [country]. The Congos, for example,
make themselves understood and pronounce with more clarity than do the
Carabalı́es.2
But it is always the same Spanish language that they speak,
although they mangle it, almost individually, we should say. However, there
are some uniform ways of corrupting it, and this is natural, among all blacks,
particularly in the countryside; not only do they alter the pronunciation of
certain words uniformly, but they also sometimes give [certain words] a
different meaning, and other times [give them] a meaning analogous to the
genuine one. For example, it is rather common for them to say dos viages
‘two trips’ instead of dos veces ‘two times’. There is another special reason
why the European Spaniards cannot understand them as easily as we [Cubans]
can, which involves the tone or peculiar accent with which they pronounce.
The foreigners that speak the English language will be able to gauge the value
of this observation, since it is clear to them that if they do not give their words
the intonation that the English are used to, even though they may pronounce
each letter and even each syllable correctly, they will hardly be understood, if
they are at all. In light of this issue, I cannot but remember a Portuguese
servant that I met in Washington, who rarely if ever pronounced any English
word accurately, particularly the ends of them, but he would get the emphasis
and pauses of the language so well that at a distance we took him for an
Englishman, and up close he was understood very well.
In addition, there are other signs or words that are a universal language to
the people recently arrived from Africa (bozales),3
regardless of the country
2
The Carabalı́es are originally from the Nigerian delta area.
3
The parentheses around bozales is in the original. This makes evident de la Luz’s under-
standing of the term bozal as a recently arrived African. Interestingly, we find among Lieber’s
unpublished papers at the Huntington Library, San Marino, CA, a clear explanation of the term.
In 1854–55, Lieber began to compile entries for a “people’s dictionary of knowledge” that was
never completed. Therein we find an entry for bozal meant for the dictionary, which reads
‘Bozal is the name given to native Africans in the Spanish West Indies. The term is more used
when lately imported negros are spoken of, and we believe that bozal has come to be
understood as signifying fresh Africans, as it were. We have not been able to ascertain the
origin of the word, and were frequently told in the West Indies that it is of African origin.’
Translation 221
they belong to; and this circumstance clearly convinces [us/me] evidently that
they are taught them [i.e., words] in the factorı́as [trading posts/slave way-
stations]. This is all the clearer when the words refer to the most urgent needs
and the most precise objects. It is worth noting that the majority of them are
known to be of English origin, and repeating the words of the root, a very
natural thing [to do], since all of us repeat when people do not understand us.
Such are lúcu lúcu (look, look) ‘see, look’, guashi guashi (wash, wash) ‘wash
(oneself)’, and others in a similar vein. But this vocabulary is no larger than a
few indispensable words to communicate with the blacks during the sea
journey and in the barracon [where they are held] until they are sold.
With regard to the local language of the whites of the country [Cuba], it
merely consists of some expressions, and scattered words, so few that one could
neither write a book [about them] nor a four-line note [entirely] with creole or
local words and sentences. However, there are numerous words that can be
classified according to the following categories: 1st, some (although very few)
common to all of Spanish America; 2nd, others to the whole island; 3rd, others
particular to some districts; 4th, others which, despite being Spanish words, are
applied improperly to other objects, as happens in Havana, and even generally
in all the seaports of the peninsula, where it is very common to use maritime
words for familiar objects; thus, we say botar ‘throw’ instead of arrojar ‘throw’,
although we know and use, of course, a word as common as arrojar; 5th, others
which, despite being Spanish as well, and non-maritime, we use in a different
sense: thus, here we generally interpret majadero as an annoying man (‘a
troublesome fellow’), when, strictly speaking, he is a zopenco ‘dunce’; 6th,
other words are totally creole, since they represent objects peculiar to the
country [Cuba] and thus lack an equivalent [word] in Spanish; and finally others
that are synonymous with the Spanish words.
At the very beginning of the establishment of the patriotic society in
Havana, in the year of 1794 or ’95, words and expressions started being
collected at the request of a distinguished member affiliated with the church.
But a small collection of them was not made public until the year 1813 [when
they were] published as a sample by Dr José del Castillo in one of the issues
of the newspaper called the Patriota Americano the ‘American Patriot’, of
which he was one of the editors. Later, the education section of the patriotic
society undertook and is still undertaking the endeavour of enriching this
provincial dictionary to publish it some day.
But even when it is published, it will serve no purpose related to the object
of the investigations of our dear philanthropist, Dr Lieber, because, although
Corominas (1954) does not have an entry for bozal, though Moliner (1984) defines it thus: ‘it
[bozal] is used to denote blacks taken from their country’ (my translation). The OED has no
entry for bozal.
222 José de la Luz Caballero’s responses
that vocabulary belongs to the language of the whites, it can in no way
promote the religious instruction of the blacks. However, if you would like
another ? [in the ms. the abbreviation tor. is found], as a curiosity, or for
another type of work, given that he [Dr Lieber] is also a great philologist,
I can set out to look for a copy of something on this particular topic.
The only attempt made to explain the Christian doctrine to the Africans in
the same corrupt Spanish language, and with similes and in a style more within
their grasp (especially, that of the people in the countryside, who are naturally
more backward) was undertaken in a catechism in the form of dialogue, which,
for the use of the priests and chaplains in the countryside, was composed more
than thirty years ago by a distinguished clergyman who had also practised the
ministry. It has since been published, but this book is so rarely found that the
majority [of people], even those who should know of it, are unaware of its
existence, and very few own it. Even I, who am so fond of ferreting out
publications about this discipline, did not happen upon it until two years ago. I
will decline to talk about its merit or demerit, because I will send a copy to Dr
Lieber himself, as soon as I can go to my house, for currently I am temporarily
in the hills, a league away from town, and this piece of [writing] paper, as can
be perceived in its body as well as in its soul, is going too fast because a boat is
leaving for New York tomorrow, as I have been assured, and I do not want to
lose the opportunity [to send this letter on the boat].
I will only mention that it is customary for priests and chaplains, before
hearing confession from and giving out communion to blacks, to explain the
doctrine and morals to them [the Africans] in a way that is within their reach,
that is, by using a corrupt language [variety]. With respect to preaching, it is
always done in the authentic Spanish language. Nevertheless, the blacks in
the countryside hardly ever hear any preaching if at all, because their obli-
gations on Sunday are restricted to hearing Mass or praying the Rosary. With
regard to the blacks in the towns, who do hear lots of sermons, they under-
stand them very well, and even better than some whites can imagine.
Translation 223
Appendix B: José de la Luz Caballero’s
commentary on the Catequismo
(original and translation)
Original
José de la Luz’s Commentary on the Catequismo, sent to Francis Lieber
Como un estrangero por mas instruido que esté en la lengua española puede
necesitar alguna clave para inteligencia del cateqismo acomodado á la capa-
cidad de los negros bozales (impreso en la Habana desde el año de 1796, como
se vé al final de la pagina 13, y reimpreso en 1818), me ha parecido conveniente
acompañar el exemplar que envio al Dr
Franco
Lieber (de Filadelfia) con las
siguientes indicaciones que serviran tambien de parte de respuesta á la que yá di
á las preguntas que se sirvió dirijirme el mes ántes pasado.
1a
Este libro se encamina directamente no á los negros, sino á los capellanes ó
maestros de los negros en la doctrina cristiana. Asi és que se ponen varias
ampliaciones, ejemplos, y similes de una misma idea, para que el maestro las
use todas, ó escoja entre ellas, segun las circunstancias. De donde se infiere que
son mas bien ideas que no palabras al alcance de los africanos, como que no
existe dialecto criollo general, ni particular propiamente tal. Asi és que el
capellan ó confesor imitará mas en la pronunciacion aquel modo especial de
corromper la lengua que tiene cada casta, segun sea la que tenga que catequizar.
2a
Sin embargo, como ya dije en mi respuesta, hay algunos modos de
corromper el idioma empleado generalmente por todos los bozales, pero estos
se refieren mas bien á las construcciones que no á la pronunciación; y esos
módismos son precisamente los que se usan en el presente libro: he aqui los
mas principales. 1
Emplear el adjetivo en lugar de sustantivo: v.g. ‘Dios, no
habla mentiroso’ (paga
46, linea 6) en lugar de mentira; ‘no tiene enfermo’;
en lugar de ‘no tiene enfermedad’ : 2
Es muy frecuente en ellos emplear el
plural por singular en los verbos, particularmente en el verbo ser: exemplo en
la linea siguiente ‘Son verdad’ en lugar de és- y 3
ahi mismo se advertirá
otro modismo, que és repetir la palabra verdad, para indicar que una cosa és
de veras, que no se engaña, y en general se repite para dar mas fuerza. 4
suprimir el articulo en el acusativo: v.g. ‘Si ustedes miran huevo’, en lugar de
224
un huevo ó el huevo, y tambien á veces en el nominativo. 5
No variar el
adjetivo, como en ingles, cosa que es lo mas natural: asi dice ‘mismo muger’,
v.g., en lugar de ‘misma’, 6
poner en el verbo la tercera persona en vez de la
primera v.g. ‘yo tiene dinero’ en lugar de yo tengo. 7
Igualmente esta tercera
persona en lugar de infinitivo v.g. ‘yo quiere compra’ en vez de ‘comprar’ 8
á veces tampoco declinan los pronombres personales asi es que muy amenudo
se hallará en el cateqismo yo en lugar de me ó mi. 9
Con mucha frecuencia
suprimen tambien las preposiciones y asi se verá v.g. ‘no está barriga de su
madre’ en lugar de en la barriga etc. 10
Repiten los negros casi siempre la
negativa asi dicen v.g. ‘no va á juntar no’ ‘no va á salir no’ 11
. Ponen
tambien el adverbio en lugar del adjetivo, v.g. ‘hizo malo en lugar de mal’.1
12
usan el adjetivo negativo ninguno muy á menudo en lugar de ‘no, nada,
nada absolutamente’ (nothing at all, by no means). Ejemplo del mismo
cateqismo ‘¿Puede la yegua ir al cielo?’ ‘Ninguno’. ‘El no entiende ninguno’,
en lugar de ‘no entiende nada’. 13
Los negros es decir los de campo apenas ó
nunca usan la condicional si, y en su lugar proponen simplemente la condi-
cion sin particula: v.g. ‘hombre va á luchar, el no tiene fuerzas, el se cae’ y asi
se remedian repitiendo el pronombre.
He aqui clasificadas todas las corrupciones que se emplean en este libro
pertenecientes al numero de aquellas que hacen generalmente todos los
negros. Mas como esta sola clave no bastarı́a para la inteligencia del librejo,
descendere á formar una especie de catálogo esplicativo de aquellas voces y
espresiones usadas en él, y con tanta mas razon cuanto semejantes porme-
nores no dejan de ofrecer alguna corta luz pa
entender nuestros usos y cos-
tumbres. No seguire un orden alfabetico, por que sobre no sér necesario,
pediria mas vagar; y asi me contentare con ir apuntando las palabras en el
mismo orden que ocurren en la obrita.
A la pagina 46, al fin se usa viento en lugar de aire; locucion no solo de los
negros, sino de nuestro vulgo aqui y en España; y conversion muy natural
pues el viento es para ellos lo que hace sensible el aire.
A pagina 48 muy amenudo se verá usado mas que en lugar de aunque y
aunque es tan castizo el uno como el otro, sin embargo nuestro pueblo de
todos colores prefiere siempre el primero.
Pagina 49 y en otros muchos lugares – se emplea la voz candela en lugar de
fuego, y es un provincialismo (Entiendase que siempre que digo provincia-
lismo, ó voz provincial me contraigo á expresiones empleadas por los cri-
ollos, esto es todos los hijos del pais sean blancos o negros pues hay voces
solo comunes entre los negros) contrayendonos á la que nos ocupa la voz
candela es muy castiza pero no en significacion de fuego, sino de vela, o luz
1
Based on the example given, de la Luz probably meant that the blacks often used the adjectival
instead of the adverbial form.
Original 225
encendida; y he aquı́ según dije en mi primera respuesta al Dr
Lieber, como
hay provincialismos que solo consisten en significación y no en la espresion.
A la pagina 50 al fin: aguacate nombre de una fruta de las antillas: los
franceses la llaman avocat.
Pagina 52 linea 5a
y en varios lugares: se usa la palabra gente en lugar de
una persona, cuando en rigor gente (people) és siempre colectivo, y es
modismo no solo de los negros, sino del pueblo muy bajo.
Ninguna pasa á la otra, esto es, escede, ó és superior: es una frase que
aunque de negros es castiza y solo mas material.
Tu hablas derecho se parece mucho á la de you are right, y equivale á Ud.
tiene razon. No es provincial sino esclusiva de los negros.
Pagina 56 Cuadrilla, voz muy española la emplean los negros tambien
como sinónima de casta, especie, clase, sin que por eso dejen de darle su
escepcion verdadera. Sin duda como á ellos para todos los trabajos los dis-
tribuyen por cuadrilla, han tomado de ahi el tipo para decir clasificacion.
Pagina 61 Chapeador: voz provincial derivada de chapear tambien pro-
vincial; y significa segador ó cortador de malas hierbas.
Pagina 63 Viages en lugar de veces: es modismo muy negrero.
Pagina id: lo mismo lo es el siguiente pasa en lugar de mas de: v.g. pasa
ocho dias en vez de ‘mas de ocho dias’. Algo anglesado ó mejor dicho, muy
natural en semejante modo de hablar: v.g. past two, past healing, etc.
Pagina 68 Machetazo: voz provincial, golpe dado con el machete que es el
instrumento cortante con que los negros chapean.
Pagina 73 Ya hay cuje: es decir castigo pues cuje significa una cara delgada
cortada de un arbol (ordinariamente de la yaya por su flexibilidad) con que
son castigados los negros en las haciendas. De aqui se ha hecho provincial la
palabra aplicandola á toda especia de látigo delgado y aun de una persona
muy flaca y desmedrada se dice en el pais que está como un cuje.
Pagina 74 in fine Ahi está la tabla: quiere decir ‘pronto estará el castigo’
pues para azotar á los negros se les aseguraba atandolos en una tabla; asi dar
una tabla valia tanto como asegurar para azotar mucho, pues unos pocos
azotes se pueden dár á un hombre suelto – Ya hoy no se dan tablas, pero en su
lugar se dan boca abajos; es decir, se hace acostar al paciente boca abajo, y ó
bien sugetandole otros negros, ó bien sin sujetarle, se le aplican los azotes.
Cruel es todabia el boca abajo; pero la tabla le escedia, toda vez que se
ataba un hombre ex profeso para azotarle largamente. Al cabo tambien con el
boca abajo es mas fácil cese el castigo tan luego como empieze á ceder la
colera del Mayoral.
Ala pagina 81 in fine, bote del verbo botar: es voz marina, y en rigor
significa ‘echar un Buque al agua’ (to launch); pero se usa muchisimo tanto
aqui como en todos los puertos de mar españoles en la acepcion de tirar,
arrojar, echar, lanzar, y tanto que hay hombres del pueblo que no entienden
226 José de la Luz Caballero’s commentary on the Catequismo
absolutamente cuando se les dice fué lanzado v.g. es necesario decirles fue
botado de la casa, etc. En general (y és muy natural) en todos los puertos de
mar se aplican voces maritimas á objetos terrestres, y las mas voces hasta se
ignoran las voces que los representan.
A la pagina 82 Cujazos (esto és golpeo dado con el cuje, azotes).
Al renglon siguiente, asi como en otros muchos pasages de la obrita en la
espresion de malmandados y varias de este tenor, se echará de ver la maestria
con que el autor imita el estilo de la gente del pais, aun emplean voces muy
castizas: tal parece á ocasiones que dimos á una madre ó maestro reconvi-
niendo á los chicos.
A la pagina 84 ‘De balde, de balde’ frase muy favorita entre los negros, e
indica lo que significa.
A la pagina 94 al fin del 1er
parrafo ‘Emburujar’: este verbo materialmente
significa envolver, y asi como á este último se le da en el pais la acepcion de
embaucar, enredar, etc. y és sumamente espresivo.
Pagina id ¼ Estancia, que en español tiene una acepcion muy lata, en el
pais se aplica especialmente á una pequeña hacienda de labranza (a farm).
Pagina id ¼ ‘No jaya su vegiga’ Cualquier estrangero, y aun algunos
peninsulares al leer esta frase ‘no halla su vegiga’ y particularmente y despues
de decir mete mano á la faldriquera, creerı́a cualquier cosa, ménos lo que en
realidad es – Es costumbre en el pais, y mas especialmente en el campo,
guardar el tabaco torcido (cigarros y en el pais tabacos) en grandes vegigas de
buey ó vaca ahumadas y preparadas al efecto: nuestros guagiros (campesi-
nos,) no solo guardan en ella el tabaco sino los chismes de encender lumbre (ó
de sacar candela como se dice aqui) para estar fumando á cada rato y á dó
quiera; y los negros no solo tabaco y chismes sino el dinero menudo (change)
y cuantos cachibaches tienen: de modo que la vegiga es su verdadera bolsa y
hasta su talega.
Al fin de la misma pagina ‘se le espantó la yegua’. La frase es muy propia
pues los negros mas tienen yeguas que caballos y no precisamente por que
relinchen poco y otras cualidades que aprecian los arabes, sino por que les
paren potricos y cuestan muy poco en comparación con los caballos.
Pagina 95 ‘Cuando se acabó de moler.’ Moler quiere decir aqui esprimir el
jugo de la caña de azúcar; y toda la frase indica la terminacion de la
molienda, que dura ordinariamente de 6 á 7 meses, desde Novre ó Diciembre
hasta mayo ó Junio (the crop in the sugar plantations).
En esa misma pagina se notará lo que llevo advertido en órden á suprimir
particulas y aun verbos, necesarios para el regimen v.g. ‘¿tiempo ese de
chapear que hice yo?’. En lugar de en ese tiempo, etc.2
2
The sentence would, then, be ¿en ese tiempo de chapear, qué hice yo? ‘During that time of weed
cutting, what did I do?’
Original 227
Pagina idem – Manigua: voz provincial que significa lo mismo que la
española matorral ó Bosque de yerbas, y cuando mas de arbustos; que cor-
tados sirven de combustible para moler, es decir para cocer el zumo de la caña
ó guarapo.
Pagina 98 ¼ ‘Cañamazos.’ El genero de que se hace el vestido á los negros
(por que sale del Cañamo), y por conversion el vestido mismo, tanto que
hasta la gente del campo suele decir mis cañamazos en lugar de mi ropa.
Pagina id. ‘Mi amo’ vocativo que usan, y repiten mucho los africanos, para
dirijir la palabra, no solo á sus amos, sino á todo blanco.
Pagina 99 ‘Zambumbı́a’: bebida fermentada dulzaina que se hace con la
miel de purga (molasses) ó con el guarapo (jugo de caña), y és muy favorita
de los negros, y aun de los blancos del pueblo; en términos de haber tiendas
espresamente para su despacho y se llaman por eso zambumberı́as.
Pagina 102: Estar brabo: provincialismo, que vale tanto como estar
enfadado.
Pagina 104, al fin ‘Cara lambido’ – corrupción del participio castellano
relamido; y aun los blancos del pueblo dicen relambido.
Pagina 107 majadero está en lugar de majaderia. En buen castellano
majadero quiere decir zote (a blochead [sic], a dunce), pero en el paı́s se
aplica esclusivamente á una persona molestadora, importuna o travieza (a
troublesome fellow).
Pagina 108 Jugamiento, palabra inventada por el autor, siguiendo las
analogias de las que inventan los negros – y equivale á juguete, cosa que no es
de veras (not in good earnest).
Pagina id. ‘Bujı́o ó bohio’ choza donde vive el negro hecha de cujes u
cobijada con guano (palm-leaves). (In both Carolinas they call it wigwam,
I think.)
Pagina 109 ‘Mi carabela’ significa compatriota, ó por lo menos, y con mas
propiedad, los que han venido de africa en el mismo buque- Es muy natural la
etimologia, á mi entender, pues este és el nombre de unos buques, como
Goletas que usaban antiguamente los españoles y portugueses, y en ellos se
traerian los negros al principio ¿Quien no sabe que Cristobal Colon vino en
sus tres Carabelas á descubrir el nuevo mundo? Advierto que despues en
varios pasages de la obrita está mal escrita la palabra; pues ponen calavera
(skull) en lugar de Carabela.
Pagina id in fine ¼ ‘Pasa mi cabeza’ Aqui el verbo pasar significa clar-
amente irse un licor á la cabeza
Pagina 113 ‘al castillo del Rey’ No solo los negros sino el pueblo (parti-
cularmente entre la gente antigua) cuando hablan de las calles, caminos,
plazas y obras públicas en general dicen siempre del Rey; y esta frase era muy
natural, pues equivalia á cosas públicas, que no son de la propiedad de nadie,
y son de todos.
228 José de la Luz Caballero’s commentary on the Catequismo
Pagina 114 ‘Hacer misa’ Es frase negrera en lugar de decir misa.
Pagina 119 ‘Quiebrahacha’ madera de las mas sólidas que tenemos, como
bien lo indica la composicion del nombre.
Pagina 131 ‘Comico’ voz criolla ó mejor dicho voz de los aborigenes,
como puede verlo el Dr
Lieber en la obra de su famoso compatriota Adelung;
titulada ‘Vor Mithridatas, oder In allgemeinen Sprachkunde’ y es de las
poquisimas que se conservan – Significa un pequeño terreno cultivable (a
little farm) y mas particularmente aquel pedacito que se señala á cada negro
ordinariamente anexo á su bujı́o.
Pagina id in fine ‘Fasajo’ significa carne salada, y muy particularmente la
de vaca que asi preparada se trae de Buenos Aires y Montevideo (donde tanto
abundan las reses) para el consumo de los negros de campo: tiene un olor y
sabor peculiar, y ellos gustan mucho de él. En el comercio corre con ese
nombre.
Pagina 134 ‘No como mula’ Esta es la comparacion de que siempre se
valen los negros y gente del campo para designar un hombre de pocos
alcances. Entre la gente culta es mas provincial la de Caballo: ambas son
menos exactas que la española de burro, pues el caballo y la mula son ani-
males de grande instinto.
Pagina 135. Los negros nunca dicen ‘fumar tabaco’ (to smoke cigar) son
chupar (to suck) y aun nuestra gente del pueblo, por que ellos en realidad no
se contentan con echar el humo, sino que han de chupar la hoja: á bien que
los anglo-americanos mascan como un demontre (chewing).
Pagina 136 ‘Para que compre tabaco’ es el nombre que da nuestro pueblo á
una propina: es ist Ihr Trinkgeld.
Pagina 145 ¼ Contra-mayoral. Es un segundo del mayoral ó encargado del
gobierno de la hacienda, cuya ocupacion es ordinariamente ir detrás de los
negros para hacerlos trabajar. Por lo comun lo son los mismos negros
(overseers), aunque hay fincas en que por lo menos hay algun blanco con esta
comision.
Pagina 148 ¼ ‘Pasmo’ corrupcion del nombre espasmo, aunque no sig-
nifica el espasmo, que és solo un sı́ntoma, sino la enfermedad del tétanos, por
desgracia tan comun como funesta en el pais. Es voz provincial.
Pagina 154 ¼ ‘Hablar boca sucia’ significa entre los negros, hablar
obscenidades ó malas palabras, etc.
Pagina 155 ‘La cara amarrada’ es frase muy expresiva, y no enteramente
criolla, pues se usa tambien en algunos puntos de España, vale tanto como
fruncido3
– he frowns.
3
The text is unclear here. The word appears to be written as fronricid, the nearest semantically is
fruncido ‘wrinkled’.
Original 229
Pagina 159 ‘Ya guinea se acabó’ Modo de decir muy propio de los negros
siempre que muere o termina algo prefieren el verbo acabarse á todos los
demas.
Descifradas ya las locuciones y palabras que pueden ofrecer algun estorbo
para la inteligencia del cateqismo en cuestion, resta tan solo indicar la clave
para la ortografia.
No hay mas diferencia entre la adoptada por el autor y la de la lengua
española, que, la de escribir con j todas las voces que llevan h, pues los negros
aspiran siempre esta letra como lo hace el pueblo aqui y en España, y aun
antiguamente se aspiraba hasta por los buenos hablistas, como se evidencia
por las obras de Fr Luis de Leon y de Granada y de otros clásicas; pero la
aspiracion era mas suave que la de j española, la cual segun la pronuncian los
castellanos és mas fuerte que la ch alemana, que es cuanto hay que decir. Es
una pronunciacion verdaderamente arábiga. Solo los montañeses de Escocia
(the highlanders) pronuncian esta letra mas guturalmente: casi podria decirse
que no la aspiran solo con la garganta, sino desde el vientre.
Otra observacion y concluyo – Tambien se hallara escrito haiga en lugar de
haya (subjuntivo del verbo haber): vicio de pronunciación comun también á
los blancos del pais, y aun á los andaluces- como lo es igualmente el pro-
nunciar la ll como y, cuando en castellano tiene el sonido de gl italiana; por lo
se verá en el cateqismo empleada muy á menudo la y en lugar de ll. Y con
esto me despido, por ahora del Catequismo y del Dr
Lieber; pero no de los
vivos deseos de emplearme en su obsequio. Habana Septiembre 25 de 1835 ¼
J de la Luz.
Translation
However versed he may be in the Spanish language, a foreigner may need a
key to understand the Catechism Adapted to the Abilities of the Black Bozales
(printed in Havana since 1796, as can be seen at the end of page 13, and
reprinted in 1818). Therefore, I thought it was convenient for me to attach to
the copy I am sending to Dr Franco
Lieber (of Philadelphia) the following
annotations, which will also serve as an additional reply to the answers I
already provided regarding the questions he posed last month.
1st: This book is not squarely aimed at the blacks, but rather at the capel-
lanes ‘chaplains’ or teachers of the blacks in the Christian doctrine.
Thus, there are several elaborations, examples, and similes of the same
idea so that the teachers may either use them all or choose among them,
given the circumstances. From this it can be inferred that these are
ideas, rather than words, within the Africans’ range of comprehension,
since there is neither dialect nor creole as such (whether general or
230 José de la Luz Caballero’s commentary on the Catequismo
particular). Therefore, the chaplain or priest confessor will imitate the
pronunciation of that special way of corrupting the language that each
caste has, depending on which caste he has to catechize.4
2nd: However, as I said in my reply, there are some ways of corrupting the
language which are generally used by all bozales, but these ways deal
with constructions, rather than pronunciation. And those idioms are
precisely the ones that they use in the book. Here are some of the main
ones:
1st: use of the adjective instead of the noun, e.g., Dios no habla
mentiroso ‘God does not speak lying’ (page 46, line 6) instead of
mentira ‘lie’; no tiene enfermo ‘he doesn’t have sick’, instead of
no tiene enfermedad ‘he has no sickness’;
2nd: it is very frequent for them to use the plural instead of the sin-
gular with verbs, particularly with the verb ser ‘be’. [There is an]
example in the following line [of the catequismo]: son verdad
[lit. ‘they are true’] instead of es ‘is’; and
3rd: right there, one will note another idiom, which is to repeat the
word verdad ‘true’ to indicate that something is genuine, not
bogus, and generally it is repeated for emphasis.
4th: doing away with the article in the accusative: e.g., Si ustedes
miran huevo ‘if you look at egg’ instead of un huevo ‘an egg’ or
el huevo ‘the egg’; and sometimes in the nominative, too;
5th: not varying [the form of] the adjective, as in English, which is
quite normal. Thus, mismo muger [lit. same-masc woman]
instead of misma muger [lit. same-fem woman];
6th: putting a verb in the third instead of the first person, e.g., yo tiene
dinero ‘I has money’ instead of yo tengo [lit. I have-1sg.pres.
indic] ‘I have’;
7th: similarly, using this third person (form) in place of the infinitive,
e.g., yo quiere compra [lit. I wants buys] instead of comprar ‘to
buy’;
8th: sometimes they do not decline the personal pronouns either.
Thus, one often comes across yo ‘I’ in the Catechism instead of
me ‘me’ [i.e., accusative/dative clitic] or mi ‘me’ [used after
prepositions].
9th: quite frequently they delete the prepositions and thus one will see
no está barriga de su madre ‘s/he is not his/her mother’s womb’
instead of en la barriga . . . ‘in his/her mother’s womb’;
4
By caste, de la Luz most likely is referring to groups of Africans from different geographical
regions, such as the Congos and the Carabalı́es he referred to in his response to Lieber.
Translation 231
10th: the blacks almost always repeat the negative. Thus, they say no
va á juntar no ‘s/he is not going to gather [the things]’, no va á
salir no ‘s/he is not going to leave’;
11th: they also put the adverb in place of the adjective, e.g. hizo malo
‘s/he did bad’ instead of mal ‘badly’;5
12th: they often use the negative adjective ninguno ‘no, not any’
instead of no ‘no’ nada ‘nothing’, nada absolutamente ‘abso-
lutely nothing’. An example from the Catechism itself: Puede la
yegua ir al cielo? Ninguno. ‘Can the mare go to heaven? No’; El
no entiende ninguno ‘he does not understand any/no (one)’
instead of no entiende nada ‘. . . does not understand anything’.6
13th: The blacks, that is, those living in the countryside, hardly or
never use the conditional si ‘if’. In its place they simply state the
condition without any particle, e.g., hombre va á luchar, el no
tiene fuerzas, el se cae ‘man goes to fight, he does not have any
strength, he falls’, and in this way the repetition of the pronoun
compensates for the lack of the conditional particle.
Here, then, are classified all the corruptions used in this book, which are
among those generally used by blacks. But since this key would not be
enough to understand the book, I will set out to make an explanatory cata-
logue of those words and expressions used in it, and with good reason, since
such details shed light in order to understand some uses and customs. I will
not follow alphabetical order, because in addition to being unnecessary it
would require further digressing. Thus, I will content myself with writing
down the words in the same order in which they appear in the small book.
At the end of page 46, they use the word viento ‘wind’ instead of aire ‘air’,
a use not only characteristic of the blacks, but also of the common people here
and in Spain. It is also a very natural conversion, since to them the wind is
what makes air perceptible.
On page 48, you will see very often that mas que ‘more than’ is used
instead of aunque ‘although’. And although one is as authentic as the other,
our people, of all colours, always prefer the former.
Page 49, and in many other places, the word candela ‘fire, candle’ is used
instead of fuego ‘fire’. This is a provincialism, and by that I mean expressions
5
In this statement, de la Luz seems to have switched ‘adverb’ with ‘adjective’. It is more likely
that he meant to say that the adjective was often used instead of the corresponding adverb.
6
As alluded by de la Luz, ningun(o) is used to negate NPs, as in ningún edificio fue construido
este año or no fue construido ningún edificio este año ‘no building was built this year’. Note that
if ningún(o) is not in sentence-initial position, there is an obligatory double negative in Spanish.
If ningun(o) appears in sentence-initial position, there is no double negation. This negation
pattern is common in all varieties of Spanish.
232 José de la Luz Caballero’s commentary on the Catequismo
used by the ‘criollos’, that is, all the sons of the country, whether white or
black, since there are words that are common only among the blacks. Con-
tinuing with the topic of our discussion, the word candela is very authentic,
but not with the meaning of ‘fire’, but rather when it means ‘candle’ (vela) or
‘light lit’ (luz encendida). That is why, as I pointed out in my reply to Dr
Lieber, it is an instance of a provincialism that only consists of meaning, and
not of an expression.
At the end of page 50: aguacate ‘avocado’, the name of a fruit of the
Antilles. The French call it avocat.
Page 52, line 5 and in several places: the word gente ‘people’ is used
instead of persona ‘person’, when, strictly speaking, gente is always [a]
collective [noun], and a idiom not only of blacks, but of the lower class.
Ninguna pasa a la otra ‘not one passes the other’, that is, ‘exceeds’ or ‘is
above/superior to’; it is an utterance that, albeit typical of blacks, is authentic,
only longer.7
Tu hablas derecho [lit. ‘2sg.fam talk-2sg straight/right’] seems much
like the one [in English] you are right, and is equivalent to Ud. tiene razón
[lit. ‘3sg.fam. have-3sg reason’] ‘you are right’. It is not provincial but,
rather, restricted to blacks.
Page 56: cuadrilla ‘team, gang, party’, a very peninsular Spanish word,
is used by the blacks as a synonym for casta ‘caste’, especie ‘type’, clase
‘class, group’. They also use it in its true sense. Undoubtedly, since they [the
blacks] are arranged in groups for their work, they have taken the meaning of
‘classification’ from that context.
Page 61: chapeador, a provincial word derived from chapear, equally
provincial, and which means segador ‘harvester’, cortador de malas yerbas
‘weed-cutter’.
Page 63: viages ‘trips’ instead of veces ‘times’ is an idiom very typical of
blacks.
Same page: the same with regard to pasa ‘she/he/it passes’ in place of mas
de, e.g., pasa ocho dias [lit. ‘pass.3sg.pres.indic eight days’] ‘more than
eight days’ instead of mas de ocho dias ‘more than eight days’. This is
somewhat Anglicized, or rather very natural in a similar manner of speaking
[in English], e.g., past two, past healing, and forth.
Page 68: machetazo, a provincial word meaning ‘blow dealt with a
machete’, machete ‘machete’ being the cutting instrument with which the
blacks harvest or remove weeds (i.e., chapear above).
Page 73: ya hay cuje [lit. already there is stick] ‘there will be a whipping’,
that is castigo ‘punishment’, since cuje means a thin stick cut from a tree
7
The entire sentence is: es castiza y solo mas material, literally ‘[it] is authentic and only more
material’.
Translation 233
(normally the yaya tree, due its suppleness) with which the blacks in the
haciendas ‘farms’ are punished. Given this context, the word has become
provincial by referring to all types of thin whips, even with reference to a
rather thin and emaciated person it can be said, que está como un cuje ‘s/he is
like a thin whipping branch’.
At the end of page 74: ahi está la tabla ‘there’s the board’ it means ‘the
punishment will come soon’, since in order to whip the blacks they were tied
to a tabla ‘board’. Thus, dar una tabla ‘to give a board’ meant to whip
heavily, since [only] a few strokes can be administered to a man untied.
Nowadays boards are no longer used. However, in their place, boca abajos
‘face downs’ are used, in which the paciente ‘person to be whipped’ is laid
down face down and given whip lashes while being restrained, or not, by
other blacks.
The boca abajo ‘face down’ is still cruel, but the tabla ‘board’ was even
crueller, since a man was tied on purpose to be flogged at length. Moreover,
by using the ‘face down’, it is easier for the punishment to stop as soon as the
ire of the foreman subsides.
At the end of page 81, bote from the verb botar ‘throw’ is a maritime
word, which strictly means ‘launch a boat into the water’, but it is used
frequently here [in Cuba] as well as in all the other Spanish maritime posts in
the sense of ‘throw, cast, launch’, and so much that there are town men who
do not understand at all when they are told fué lanzado ‘she/he/it was thrown’,
i.e., it is necessary to tell them fue botado de la casa ‘she/he/it was thrown out
of the house’. In all the maritime posts, people generally use nautical terms
(and this is very natural) when referring to objects on land; and most of the
time they do not even know the words that originally represented those
objects.
On page 82, cujazos, i.e., blows given with cuje, whip lashes.
On the next line, as well as in many other passages throughout the book, in
the expression malmandados ‘disobedient, unruly’ and others in the same
vein, one notices the mastery with which the author imitates the style of the
people of the country, even though he uses rather authentic words. Sometimes
it seems that we have encountered a mother or teacher reprimanding children.
On page 84, de balde, de balde ‘free, for nothing’, a favourite phrase
among blacks, which is used with its usual meaning.
On page 94, at the end of the first paragraph: emburujar: This verb literally
means ‘wrap, envelop’, which in this country has the meaning of embaucar
‘dupe, swindle’ or enredar ‘implicate, confuse’, and is highly expressive.
On the same page: estancia ‘stay’ has a very broad meaning in Spanish, but
in this country it refers to a small farming estate (a farm).
On the same page: no jaya su vegiga ‘he can’t find his/her bladder’: Any
foreigner, and even some people from the [Iberian] peninsula, when reading
234 José de la Luz Caballero’s commentary on the Catequismo
the phrase no halla su vegiga ‘s/he can’t find his/her bladder’ and particularly
after saying mete mano a la faldriquera ‘s/he puts her/his hand in the interior
pouch’ would be inclined to think anything, except what it really means. It is
customary in this country, especially in the countryside, to keep twisted
tobacco (cigarettes and, in this country, cigars) in smoked bladders of cows or
oxen that are treated to serve such a purpose. Not only do our guagiros
‘farmers, peasants’, keep tobacco in it, but they also keep in it the gadgets for
lighting up (or, as people say in this country, gadgets for sacar candela
‘making fire’) to be able to smoke anytime and wherever they want. In these
vegigas, the blacks keep not only their tobacco and lighters, but also small
change and all the knick-knacks they have. Therefore, the vegiga is truly their
purse, and even their bag.
At the end of the same page: se le espantó la yegua ‘the mare got scared
away’. The phrase is very appropriate because the blacks have more mares
than horses [stallions], not because they neigh little and have other qualities
that the Arabs appreciate, but rather because they [the mares] bear them little
colts, which cost very little in comparison with stallions.
Page 95: Cuando se acabó de moler. Moler [lit. ‘grind’] means (here)
‘press the juice out of the sugarcane’. So, the previous sentence means ‘when
pressing was finished’. The whole sentence refers to the end of the molienda
‘cane pressing’, normally lasting six or seven months, from November or
December until May or June (the crop in the sugar plantations).
On the same page, one will notice what I have been mentioning with
respect to the suppression of particles and even verbs necessary for the
regimen [argument structure, i.e., the preposition required by a verb or the
case the preposition licenses]: tiempo ese de chapear que hice yo ‘that weed-
cutting time, what was I doing?’, instead of en ese tiempo . . . ‘during that
weed-cutting time . . .’
Same page: manigua: a provincial word that means the same as Spanish
matorral ‘bushes’ or bosque de yerbas [lit. ‘grass grove’] and also the shrubs
that are cut that serve as fuel in the boiling of sugar cane juice, or guarapo.
Page 98: cañamazos: the fabric out of which the blacks’ clothing is made
(derived from cáñamo ‘hemp’), and by extension, the clothes themselves; so
much so that those living in the countryside normally say mis cañamazos ‘my
“hemps”’ instead of mi ropa ‘my clothes’.
Same page: mi amo ‘my master’, vocative that the Africans use and repeat
a lot to address not only their masters, but also any white person.
Page 99: zambumbı́a: this is a sweet fermented drink made from molasses
(miel de purga) or from sugarcane juice (guarapo), which is very popular
among blacks and even whites from the village in the sense that there are
shops expressly devoted to dispensing it. That is why these shops are called
zambumbierı́as ‘zambumbia shops’.
Translation 235
Page 102: estar brabo [modern Spanish bravo] ‘be courageous, fierce’: a
provincialism equivalent to estar enfadado ‘be angry’.
Page 104: at the end: cara lambido ‘affected face’: a corruption of the
Castilian [Spanish] participle relamido ‘affected [referring to behaviour]’,
‘prim and proper’. Even the white people from the village say relambido.8
Page 107: majadero is used instead of majaderı́a. In good Castilian
Spanish, majadero means means zote (‘blockhead, dunce’), but in this
country it refers exclusively to someone annoying, troublesome, or mis-
chievous (‘a troublesome fellow’).
Page 108: jugamiento, a word made up by the author, following the ana-
logies that the blacks make up. It is equivalent to juguete ‘toy’, a thing that is
not true (‘not in good earnest’).
On the same page: bujı́o or bohio ‘hut where the black person lives made
out of cujes ‘strips cut off the yaya tree’ [see explanation above] and covered
with guano ‘palm leaves’ (‘in both Carolinas they call it wigwam, I think’).
Page 109: mi carabela [lit. ‘my caravel’] means ‘compatriot’, or at least,
and more properly, those who have come from Africa on the same ship. In my
view, the etymology is a very natural one, because that is the name given to
the ships that look like schooners, which were formerly used by the Spanish
and the Portuguese, and in which the blacks would be brought at the
beginning. Who doesn’t know that Christopher Columbus came in his three
caravels to discover the New World? I must point out that in subsequent
passages in the little book the words are incorrectly spelled, since it says
calavera ‘skull’ instead of carabela.
Same page, at the end: pasa mi cabeza [lit. ‘passes my head’]. Here the
verb pasar clearly refers to liquor going to the head.
Page 113: al castillo de Rey ‘to the king’s castle’. Not only the blacks but
also the village people (particularly the elderly), when they talk about streets,
paths, squares, and public works in general, always use del Rey ‘of the king’.
And this phrase was very natural, since it refers to those public things that are
nobody’s and everybody’s.
Page 114: hacer misa ‘do mass’. This phrase is used by blacks instead of
decir misa ‘say mass’.
Page 119: quiebrahacha ‘axe-breaker’. One of the hardest woods we have,
as the make-up of noun indicates.
Page 131: cómico, creole word or, rather, aboriginal word, as Dr Lieber can
see in the work of his famous countryman Adelung entitled ‘Vor Mithridatas,
oder In allgemeinen Sprachkunde’ [‘Before Mithridatas, or in general
8
Noteworthy here is that in cara lambido there is a mistake in agreement. It should be cara
lambida. It is not clear whether this error is de la Luz’s or that of the author of the Catechism,
or whether it is supposed to reflect the speech of the black workers.
236 José de la Luz Caballero’s commentary on the Catequismo
language learning’]. It is one of the few words that have been preserved. It
denotes a small stretch of land (‘a little farm’), and more particularly, a small
cultivable tract that is assigned to each black person, usually adjacent to his
bujı́o ‘dwelling place’ (see above).
Same page, at the end: fasajo, this word means ‘salted meat’, particularly
beef, which thus prepared is shipped from Buenos Aires and Montevideo
(where cattle abound) for the consumption of the blacks in the countryside.
It has a peculiar smell and taste. They like it. It goes by that name in the market.
Page 134: No como mula ‘not like a mule’. This is the comparison used by
the blacks and the countryside people when referring to a person of low
intelligence. Among the educated people, this expression is more provincial
than when used with caballo ‘horse’. Both [expressions] are less accurate
than Spanish burro ‘donkey’, since the horse and the mule are animals of
great instinct.
Page 135: the blacks never say fumar tabaco (‘smoke cigar’), but chupar
‘suck’, and even our village people say chupar [for ‘smoke’] because they are
not content with exhaling the smoke, but they must suck the leaf, although the
Anglo-Americans chew [tobacco] like the devil (‘chewing’).
Page 136: para que compre tabaco, lit. ‘so that s/he can buy tobacco’ is the
expression that our people give to ‘tip’ [for clarification, de la Luz adds the
German expression Es ist ihr Trinkgeld lit. ‘it is their drink money’].
Page 145: contra-mayoral: The person second to the mayoral ‘farm
manager, foreman’, or the person in charge of running the haciendas ‘farms’.
His job is to go after the blacks and make them work. Normally, the contra-
mayorales are black (‘overseers’), but there are farms in which white people
carry out this job.
Page 148: pasmo ‘shock’ a corruption of the noun espasmo ‘spasm’.
However, pasmo does not have the same meaning as espasmo ‘spasm’, which
is just a symptom, but rather it refers to the disease of tetanus, which
unfortunately is as terrible as it is rampant in the country.
Page 154: hablar boca sucia [lit. speak dirty mouth] means, among the
blacks, to utter obscenities or bad words.
Page 155: la cara amarrada [lit. the tied face] is an expressive but not
entirely creole phrase, since it is also used in some parts of Spain. It means
‘frowned’ (‘he frowns’).
Page 159: ya guinea se acabó [lit. already guinea finished], an expression
very typical of the blacks. Every time something dies or ends, they prefer the
verb acabarse ‘end, finish’ to all the others.
Having clarified the words and expressions that might hinder the under-
standing of the catechism in question, there only remains to indicate the key
to the orthography.
Translation 237
There are no differences between [the spelling system] adopted by the
author and that of the Spanish language, except for the use of the letter j in all
those words containing h, since all the blacks always aspirate this letter, like
the people here and in Spain do. Even in former times, h was aspirated even
by those who spoke properly, as documented in the works of Fr Luis de León
y de Granada, and other classical writers. However, the aspiration [of h] was
softer than that of Castilian Spanish j, which, according to the pronunciation
of Castilians, is stronger than German ch. That is all that needs to be said. It is
a truly Arabic pronunciation. Only Scotland’s Highlanders pronounce this
letter more gutturally: it could almost be said that they do not pronounce it
only in their throat, but from their abdomen.
One other observation and I will conclude: one also reads haiga instead of
haya (subjunctive of the verb haber): a pronunciation vice also common
among the whites of this country, and the Andalusians, like pronouncing ll as
y, when in Castilian Spanish ll has the sound of the gl in Italian. Thus, in the
Catechism y is widely written instead of ll. And with that, I bid farewell to
the Catechism and to Dr Lieber, but not to my desire to be of service to him.
Havana, 25 September 1835 – J. de la Luz
238 José de la Luz Caballero’s commentary on the Catequismo
Bibliography
Adelaar, K. A. and D. J. Prentice. 1996. Malay: its history, role and spread, in Atlas of
languages of intercultural communication in the Pacific, Asia, and the Americas,
vol. II.1, Texts, edited by Stephen A. Wurm, Peter Mühlhäusler, and Darrell T.
Tryon. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Adelaar, Willem. 1992. Quechuan languages, in International Encyclopedia of
Linguistics, edited by William Bright. 4 vols. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
vol. III, 303–310.
Aimes, Hubert H. S. 1967. A history of slavery in Cuba. New York: Octagon.
Alameda, José and Fernando Cuetos. 1995. Diccionario de frecuencias de las uni-
dades lingüı́sticas del castellano. 2 vols. Oviedo: Universidad de Oviedo Servicio
de Publicaciones.
Alonso, Gladys and Ángel Luis Fernández. 1977. Antologı́a de lingüı́stica cubana.
Havana: Editorial de Ciencias Sociales.
ANC (Art Nouveau Corporation). 1976. Historia gráfica de Cuba: resumen del
acontecer cubano en una introducción y 600 grabados. Miami: Trade Litho.
Andersen, Roger W. (ed.). 1983. Pidginization and creolization as language acqui-
sition. Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
1993. Four operating principles and input distribution as explanation for under-
developed and mature morphological systems, in Progression and regression in
language, edited by K. Hyltenstam and A. Viborg. New York: Cambridge
University Press, 309–339.
Andersen, R. W. and Yasuhiro Shirai. 1996. ‘The primacy of aspect in first- and
second-language acquisition: the pidgin–creole connection’, in Handbook of
second language acquisition, edited by William C. Ritchie and Tej K. Bhatia.
San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 527–570.
Andresen, Julie Tetel. 1990. Linguistics in America 1769–1924: a critical history.
London: Routledge.
Aráoz, Dora and Américo Salas. 1993. Gramática Quechua. Cuzco: Instituto de
Pastoral Andina.
Bachiller y Morales, Antonio. 1977 [1883]. Desfiguración á que está expuesto el
idioma castellano al contacto y mezcla de las razas. Revista de Cuba 14.97–104
(reedited in Alonso and Fernández 1977: 105–111).
Baker, Philip. 1999. Pidginization. Message posted to CREOLIST mailing list,
archived at listserv.linguistlist.org/archives/creolist.html (August 31).
Bakker, Peter. 1995. Pidgins, in Pidgins and creoles, edited by Jacques Arends, Pieter
Muysken, and Norval Smith. Amsterdam: Benjamins, 25–39.
239
Baldinger, K. 1972. La formación de los dominios lingüı́sticos en la penı́nsula ibérica.
Madrid: Gredos.
Bartens, Angela. 1995. Die iberoromanisch-basierten Kreolsprachen. Frankfurt am
Main: Peter Lang.
Batalha, Graciete Nogueira. 1988. Glosário do dialecto macaense: notas linguı́sticas,
etnográficas e folclóricas. Macau: Instituto Cultural de Macau.
Bates, Elizabeth and Judith Goodman. 1997. On the inseparability of grammar and the
lexicon: evidence from acquisition, aphasia and real-time processing. Language
and Cognitive Processes 12(5).507–584.
Bates, Elizabeth, I. Bretherton, and L. Snyder. 1988. From first words to grammar:
individual differences and dissociable mechanisms. New York: Cambridge
University Press.
1999. On the emergence of grammar from the lexicon, in The emergence of
language, edited by Brian MacWhinney. Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum, 29–79.
Baxter, Alan N. 1988. A grammar of Kristang (Malacca Creole Portuguese). Canberra:
Pacific Linguistics Series B-No. 95.
Beltrán, J. and C. Garcı́a. 2001. The Chinese community, in Multilingualism in
Spain, edited by Marı́a Teresa Turell. Clevedon, UK: Multilingual Matters,
282–300.
Berntsen, Maxine and Jai Nimbkar. 1975. A Marathi reference grammar. Phila-
delphia: University of Pennsylvania Press.
Bickerton, Derek. 1977. Pidginization and creolization: language acquisition and
language universals, in Pidgin and creole linguistics, edited by Albert Valdman.
Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 49–69.
2000. How protolanguage became language, in The evolutionary emergence of
language, edited by Chris Knight, Michael Studdert-Kennedy, and James A.
Hurford. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 264–284.
Blackshire-Belay, Carol. 1991. Language contact: verb morphology in German of
foreign workers. Tübingen: Gunter Narr Verlag.
Bloom, L., K. Lifter, and J. Hafitz. 1980. Semantics of verbs and the development of
verb inflection in child language. Language 56.386–412.
Bloomfield, Leonard. 1933. Language. New York: Holt, Rinehart, & Winston.
Boxer, Charles. 1975. Women in Iberian Expansion Overseas, 1415–1815. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Bresnan, Joan. 1982. The mental representation of grammatical relations. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
2001. Lexical-functional syntax. Malden, MA: Blackwell.
Brown, James H. 1995. Macroecology. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Bueno, Salvador. 1959. Los mejores cuento cubanos, vol. I. Havana: Segundo Festival
del Libro Cubano.
Bybee, Joan. 1985. Morphology. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Bybee, Joan and Elly Pardo. 1981. On lexical and morphological conditioning
of alternations: a nonce-probe experiment with Spanish verbs. Linguistics
19.937–968.
Bybee, Joan, Revere Perkins, and William Pagliuca. 1994. The evolution of grammar.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Cabrera, Lydia. 1954. El monte. Havana: Ediciones CR.
240 Bibliography
Carpenter, Lawrence Kidd. 1982. Ecuadorian Quichua: descriptive sketch and vari-
ation. Unpublished University of Florida Ph.D dissertation.
Carranza Romero, Francisco. 1993. Resultado lingüı́sticos del contacto quechua
y español. Trujillo, Peru: Editorial Libertad.
Castellanos, Jorge and Isabel Castellanos. 1992. Cultura Afrocubana, vol. III Miami:
Ediciones Universal.
Catta Quelen, Javier. 1987. Gramática del quichua ecuatoriano. Quito: Ediciones
Abya Yala.
Censos nacionales de población, vivienda y agropecuario, 1961. 1968. Dirección
Nacional de Estadı́stica y Censos. 23 vols. Lima. vol. III.
Censo nacional de población y vivienda. 1980. Serie D, Población: total del paı́s, por
provincia, departamento y localidad. Instituto Nacional de Estadı́stica y Censos.
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Cerrón-Palomino, Rodolfo. 1987. Lingüı́stica quechua. Cuzco: CERA Bartolomé de
las Casas.
2003. Castellano andino: aspectos sociolingüı́sticos, pedagógicos, y gramaticales.
Lima: Fondo Editorial.
Chambers, J. L. and Peter Trudgill. 1980. Dialectology. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Chaudenson, Robert. 1992. Desı̂les, des hommes, des langues: essays sur la créol-
isation linguistique et culturelle. Paris: L’Harmattan.
Chaunu, P. 1979. European expansion in the later Middle Ages. Amsterdam: North-
Holland.
Clements, J. Clancy. 1990. Deletion as an indicator of SVO ¼¼> SOV change.
Language Variation and Change 2.103–133.
1992a. On the origins of pidgin Portuguese. Journal of Pidgin and Creole Lan-
guages 7(1).75–92.
1992b. Elements of resistance in contact-induced language change, in Explanation
in historical linguistics, edited by G. Davis and G. Iverson. Amsterdam: Ben-
jamins, 41–58.
1993a. Rejoinder to Naro’s ‘Arguing about Arguin’. Journal of Pidgin and Creole
Languages 8(1).119–124.
1993b. A contribution by an old creole to the origins of Pidgin Portuguese, in East
meets West: selected proceedings of the 1990–91 meetings of the Society of
Pidgin and Creole Languages, edited by F. Byrne and J. Holm. Amsterdam:
Benjamins, 321–331.
1996. The genesis of a language: the formation and development of Korlai Portu-
guese. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
2000. Evidência para a existência dum pidgin português asiático, in Actas do
Colóquio sobre Crioulos de Base Lexical Portuguesa, edited by Ernesto
D’Andrade, Dulce Pereira, and Maria Antónia Mota. Braga: Associação Portuguesa
de Linguı́stica, 185–200.
2001. Word order shift and natural L2 acquisition in a Portuguese creole, in
Romance syntax, semantics and L2 acquisition, edited by Caroline Wiltshire and
Joaquim Camps. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: Benjamins, 73–87.
2003a. The tense–aspect system in pidgins and naturalistically learned L2. Studies
in Second Language Acquisition 25.245–281.
Bibliography 241
2003b. On classifying language-contact varieties, in Selected Proceedings of the
First Workshop on Spanish Sociolinguistics, edited by Lotfi Sayahi. Somerville,
MA: Cascadilla Press, 1–10.
2005. Immigrant speech, creoles, and the ‘basic variety’: a usage-based account of
some traits in the Portuguese-based creoles. Journal of Portuguese Linguistics
4.149–165.
2006. Transitivity and Spanish non-anaphoric se, in Functional approaches to
Spanish syntax: lexical semantics, discourse, and transitivity, edited by J. Clancy
Clements and Jiyoung Yoon. London: Palgrave-Macmillan, 236–264.
In preparation. The origin and evolution of Daman Creole Portuguese.
Clements, J. Clancy and Stuart Davis. 2004. Early documents on bozal Spanish: the
correspondence between Francis Lieber and José de la Luz Caballero. Manu-
script. Indiana University, Bloomington.
Clements, J. Clancy and Andrew J. Koontz-Garboden. 2002. Two Indo-Portuguese
creoles in contrast. Journal of Pidgin and Creole Languages 17(2).191–236.
Clements, J. Clancy and Gerardo Augusto Lorenzino. 2006. The contact situation in
Barrancos, Portugal. Paper presented at the annual meeting of the Society for
Pidgin and Creole Languages, Albuquerque, NM, 5–8 January.
Clements, J. Clancy and Ahmar Mahboob. 2000. Wh-words and question formation in
pidgins/creole languages, in Language change and language contact in pidgins
and creoles, edited by John McWhorter. Amsterdam: Benjamins, 459–497.
Clyne, M. 1968. Zum Pidgin-Deutsch der Gastarbeiter. Zeitschrift für Mundart-
forschung 1.40–55.
Comrie, Bernard. 1976. Aspect. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Comrie, Bernard and Norval Smith, 1977. Lingua descriptive studies: questionnaire.
Lingua 42.1–72.
Corbitt, Duvon Clough. 1971. A study of the Chinese in Cuba, 1847–1947. Wilmore,
KY: Asbury College
Corominas, Joan. 1954. Diccionario crı́tico etimológico de la lengua castellana. Bern:
Francke.
Croft, William. 1991. Syntactic categories and grammatical relations: the cognitive
organization of information. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
1998. Event structure in argument linking, in The projection of arguments: lexical
and compositional factors, edited by Miriam Butt and Wilhelm Geuder. Stanford,
CA: CSLI, 21–63.
2000. Explaining language change: an evolutionary approach. London: Longman.
Cunha, Celso and Luis F. Lindley Cintra. 1994. Nova gramática do Português con-
temporâneo.Tenth edition. Lisbon: João Sá da Costa.
Curchin, L. A. 1991. Roman Spain: conquest and assimilation. London: Routledge.
Curtin, Phillip. 1969. The Atlantic slave trade: a census. Madison: University of
Wisconsin Press.
Da Azevedo Maia, Clarinda. 2001. Fronteras del español: aspectos históricos y
sociolingüı́sticos del contacto con el portugués en la frontera territorial. Paper
presented at the II Congreso Internacional de la Lengua Española: el español en
la Sociedad de Información, organized by La Real Academia Española and
Instituto Cervantes, Valladolid, 16–19 October.
242 Bibliography
Dalgado, Sebastião Rodolfo. 1906. Dialecto indo-português do Norte. Revista Lusi-
tana 9.142–166, 193–228.
De Matos Coelho, Adelino. 1999. O castelo de Noudar: fortaleza medieval. Águeda:
Câmara Municipal de Barrancos.
de Oliveira Marques, A. H. 1972. História de Portugal: das origens às revoluções
liberais, vol. I. Lisbon: Edições Ágora.
1998. Breve história de Portugal. Third edition. Lisbon: Editorial Presença.
del Valle Rodas, Juana. 1998. Un uso particular de los gerundios diciendo y haciendo,
in Español y quechua en el noroeste argentino, edited by Fernández Lávaque and
del Valle Rodas, 97–108.
Denevan, William M. (ed.). 1992. The native population of the Americas in 1492.
Madison: University of Wisconsin Press.
Deutsch, Karl W. 1968. The trend of European nationalism, in Readings in the
sociology of language, edited by J. Fishman. The Hague: Mouton, 598–606.
Diamond, Jared. 1999. Guns, germs, and steel: the fates of human societies. New
York: W. W. Norton.
Dozy, Reinhart and W. H. Engelman. 1965. Glossaire des mots espagnols et portugais
derivés de l’arabe. Amsterdam: Oriental Press.
Dromi,Esther. 1987. Early lexical development. Cambridge:Cambridge UniversityPress.
Dutton, T. 1997. Hiri Motu, in Contact languages: a wider perspective, edited by
Sarah G. Thomason. Amsterdam: Benjamins, 9–43.
Erenchun, Felix. 1856–59. Anales de la Isla de Cuba. Havana: Imprenta La Habanera.
Escobar, Alberto. 1978. Variaciones sociolingüı́sticas del castellano en el Perú. Lima:
Instituto de Estudios Peruanos.
Escobar, Anna Marı́a. 2000. Contacto social y lingüı́stico: el español en contacto con
el quechua en el Perú. Lima: Fondo Editorial (Pontificia Universidad Católica del
Perú).
Feijóo, Samuel (ed.). 1960. Cuentos populares cubanos. Santa Clara, Cuba: Depar-
tamento de Investigaciones Folklóricas, Universidad Central de Las Villas.
(ed.). 1965. Cuentos populares cubanos: selección. Havana: Bolsilibros Union.
Feke, Marilyn. 2004. Quechua to Spanish cross-linguistic influence among Cuzco
Quechua–Spanish bilinguals: the case of epistemology. Unpublished University
of Pittsburgh Ph.D dissertation. Pittsburgh, PA.
Ferguson, Charles. 1975. Towards a characterization of English foreigner talk.
Anthropological Linguistics 17.1–14.
Ferguson, C. A. and C. DeBose. 1977. Simplified registers, broken language, and
pidginization, in Pidgin and creole linguistics, edited by Albert Valdman.
Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 99–125.
Fernández, Mauro. 2006. Sobre el origen de con en chabacano. Manuscript. Uni-
versidade da Coruña.
Fernández Lávaque, Ana Marı́a. 1998a. Neutralización de clı́ticos (I), in Español y
quechua en el noroeste argentino, edited by Fernández Lávaque and del Valle
Rodas, 75–82.
1998b. En þ locativo: Lo aspectual, in Español y quechua en el noroeste argentino,
edited by Fernández Lávaque and del Valle Rodas, 57–65.
1998c. El diminutivo, in Español y quechua en el noroeste argentino, edited by
Fernández Lávaque and del Valle Rodas, 121–130.
Bibliography 243
Fernández Lávaque, Ana Marı́a and Juan del Valle Rodas (eds.). 1998. Español y
quechua en el noroeste argentino: contactos y transferencias. Salta, Argentina:
Consejo de Investigación, Universidad Nacional de Salta.
Ferraz, Luiz Ivens. 1979. The creole of São Tomé. Johannesburg: Witwatersrand
University Press.
Forman, Michael Lawrence. 1972. Zamboangueño texts with grammatical analysis: a
study of Philippine Creole Spanish. Unpublished Cornell University Ph.D dis-
sertation. Ithaca, NY.
Freidel, Frank. 1947. Francis Lieber: nineteenth-century liberal. Baton Rouge: Lou-
isiana State University Press.
Friederici, A. D. 1990. On the properties of cognitive modules. Psychological
Research 52.175–80.
Futuyma, D. J. 1986. Evolutionary biology. Second edition. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer.
Gili Gaya, Samuel. 1960. Funciones gramaticales en el habla infantil. Rio Piedras:
University of Puerto Rico Press.
1961. Curso superior de sintaxis española. Madrid: Vox.
Givón, T. 1984. Syntax: a functional-typological introduction, vol. I. Amsterdam:
Benjamins.
1998. The functional approach to grammar, in The new psychology of language:
cognitive and functional approaches to language structure, edited by Michael
Tomasello. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 41–66.
1999. Generativity and variation: the notion of ‘rule of grammar’ revisited, in The
emergence of language, edited by Brian MacWhinney. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence
Erlbaum, 81–114.
Godinho, Vitorino Magalhães. 1981–1983. Os descobrimentos e a economia mundial.
4 vols. second edition. Lisbon: Editorial Presença.
Goldberg, A. E. 1995. Constructions: a construction grammar approach to argument
structure. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
1998. Patterns of experience in patterns of language, in The new psychology of
language: cognitive and functional approaches to language structure, edited by
Michael Tomasello. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 203–219.
1999. The emergence of the semantics of argument structure constructions, in The
emergence of language, edited by Brian MacWhinney. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence
Erlbaum, 197–212.
González, E. R. and R. Mellafe. 1965. La función de la familia en la historia social
hispanoamericana colonial. Asociación Internacional de Investigación Histórica
8.57–71.
González, Paz. 2003. Aspects or aspect: theory and applications of grammatical
aspect in Spanish. Utrecht: Netherlands Graduate School of Linguistics, Utrecht
Institute of Linguistics OTS.
Goodman, Judith, H. C. Nusbaum, L. Lee, and K. Broihier. 1990. The effects of
syntactic and discourse variables on the segmental intelligibility of speech, in The
proceedings of the 1990 International Conference on Spoken Language Pro-
cessing. Kobe: Acoustical Society of Japan, 393–396.
Grajeda Challco, Braulio and Orlando Vela Flores. 1976. Gramática quechua. Lima:
Ediciones Instituto Superior de Quechua del Perú.
Granda, German. 1978. Estudios lingüı́sticos hispánicos, afrohispánicos, y criollos.
Madrid: Gredos.
244 Bibliography
Günther, Wilfried. 1973. Das portugiesische Kreolisch der Ilha do Prı́ncipe. Marburg
an der Lahn: Selbstverlag.
Guy, Gregory. 1989. On the nature and origins of popular Brazilian Portuguese, in
Estudios sobre el español de América y lingüı́stica afroamericana: Ponencias
Presentadas en el 45 Congreso Internacional de Americanistas. Bogota,
Colombia: Instituto Caro y Cuevo, 227–245.
Haboud, Marleen. 1998. Quichua y castellano en los Andes Ecuatorianos. Quito:
Ediciones Abya-Yala.
Hall, Robert. 1966. Pidgin and creole language. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.
Hawkins, John. 1994. A performance theory of order and constituency. New York:
Cambridge University Press.
Heath, Shirley Brice. 1982. American English: quest for a model, in The other tongue:
English across cultures, edited by Braj Kachru. Urbana: University of Illinois
Press, 237–249.
Heidelberger Forschungsprojekt, Pidgin-Deutsch. 1975. Sprache und Kommunikation
ausländischer Arbeiter. Kronberg, Germany: Scriptor Verlag.
Herron, D. and Elizabeth Bates. 1997. Sentential and acoustic factors in the recog-
nition of open- and closed-class categories. Journal of Memory and Language
37.217–239.
Hinnenkamp, Volker. 1984. Eye-witnessing pidginization? Structural and sociolin-
guistic aspects of German and Turkish foreigner talk, in York papers in lin-
guistics: papers from the York Creole Conference September 24–27, 1983, edited
by Mark Sebba and Loretto Todd. York, Canada: University of York, 153–166.
Holm, John A. 1988. Pidgins and creoles, vol. I, Theory and structure. New York:
Cambridge University Press.
1989. Pidgins and creoles, vol. II, Reference survey. New York: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
Holm, John, et al. 1999. Copula patterns in Atlantic and non-Atlantic creoles, in
Creole genesis, attitudes and discourse, edited by John R. Rickford and Suzanne
Romaine. Amsterdam: Benjamins, 97–119.
Hopper, Paul. 1987. Emergent grammar, in Papers of the 13th Annual Meeting,
Berkeley Linguistic Society. Berkeley: Berkeley Linguistic Society, 139–157.
1988. Emergent grammar and a priori grammar postulate, in Linguistics in context,
edited by Deborah Tannen. Norwood, NJ: Ablex, 117–34.
1998. Emergent grammar, in The new psychology of language: cognitive and
functional approaches to language structure, edited by Michael Tomasello.
Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 155–175.
Hualde, José Ignacio, Antxon Olarrea, and Anna Marı́a Escobar. 2001. Introducción a
la lingüı́stica hispánica. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hull, David L. 1988. Science as a process: an evolutionary account of the social and
conceptual development of science. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Ihalainen, Ossi. 1976. Periphrastic do in affirmative sentences in the dialect of East
Somerset. Neuphilologische Mitteilungen 82.608–622.
Jespersen, O. 1964[1921]. Language: its nature, development, and origin. New York:
W. W. Norton and Co.
Jiménez Pastrana, Juan. 1963. Los chinos en la liberación cubana. Havana: Instituto
de Historia.
Bibliography 245
Karmiloff-Smith, A. 1992. Beyond modularity: a developmental perspective on cog-
nitive science. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Kihm, Alain. 1994. Kriyol syntax: the Portuguese-based creole language of Guinea-
Bissau. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Kiple, Kenneth F. 1976. Blacks in colonial Cuba, 1774–1899. Gainesville: University
Presses of Florida.
Klein, Wolfgang and Clive Perdue. 1992. Utterance structure: developing grammars
again. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Koontz-Garboden, Andrew J. and J. Clancy Clements. 2002a. Case-marking in Dra-
vidian languages and Indo-Portuguese creoles: substrate influence or independent
development? Paper presented at South Asian Language Analysis Round Table,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, 21–23 June.
2002b. Some theoretical implications of adpositions in Spanish- and Portuguese-
based creoles. Paper presented at the annual meeting of the Society of Pidgin and
Creole Languages, San Francisco, CA, 21–23 June.
Kotsinas, U.-B. 1989. Come, stay, and finish: On the development of aspect markers in
interlanguage and pidgin/creole languages, in Proceedings of the Second Scan-
dinavian Symposium on Aspectology, edited by L.-G. Larsson. Uppsala, Sweden:
Almqvist and Wiksell, 19.33–48.
1996. Aspect marking and grammaticalization in Russenorsk compared with
Immigrant Swedish, in Language contact in the Arctic: Northern pidgins and
contact languages, edited by E. Håkon Jahr and B. Ingvild. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter, 123–154.
Langacker, Ronald. 1987. Foundations of cognitive grammar I. Stanford, CA: Stan-
ford University Press.
Lapesa, Rafael. 1981. Historia de la lengua española. Madrid: Gredos.
Leguay, Jean Pierre, A. H. de Oliveira Marques, and Maria Angela Beirante. 1993.
Portugal das invasões germânicas à ‘reconquista’. Lisbon: Editorial Presença.
Leite de Vasconcelos, José. 1955. Filologia barranquenha: apontamentos para o seu
estudo. Águeda: Grafinal.
Levin, Beth and Malka Rappaport Hovav. 1995. Unaccusativity: at the syntax–lexical
semantics interface. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Li, Charles and Sandra Thompson. 1981. Mandarin Chinese: a functional reference
grammar. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Li, Ping and Yasuhiro Shirai. 2000. The acquisition of lexical and grammatical aspect.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Lieber, Francis (ed.). 1829–1832. Encyclopedia Americana, vols. I–XIII. Philadelphia:
Carey & Lea.
Lipski, John. 1985. Creole Spanish and vestigial Spanish: evolutionary parallels.
Linguistics 23.963–984.
1986. Convergence and divergence in bozal Spanish: a comparative study. Journal
of Pidgin and Creole Languages 1.171–203.
1994. Latin American Spanish. London: Longman.
1997. Caribbean Spanish: the African connection. Paper delivered at Indiana Uni-
versity, Bloomington, 7 February.
1998. Perspectivas sobre el español bozal, in América negra, edited by Perl and
Schwegler. 293–327.
246 Bibliography
1999. Chinese-Cuban pidgin Spanish: implications for the Afro-Creole debate, in
Creole genesis, attitudes and discourse, edited by John R. Rickford and Suzanne
Romaine. Amsterdam: Benjamins, 215–233.
2000. Bozal Spanish: restructuring or creolization?, in Degree of restructuring in
creole languages, edited by Ingrid Neumann-Holzschuh and Edgar Schneider.
Amsterdam: Benjamins.
2005. A history of Afro-Hispanic language: five centuries, five continents. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
López Meirama, Belén. 1997. La posición del sujeto en la cláusula monoactancial
en español. Lalia, Series Maior, n
7. Santiago de Compostela: Universidad de
Santiago de Compostela.
Lorenzino, Gerardo A. 1998. The Angolar creole Portuguese of São Tomé: its grammar
and sociolinguistic history. Munich: Lincom Europa.
Luis, Ana. 2004. Clitics as morphology. Unpublished University of Essex Ph.D dis-
sertation. Colchester.
Macera, Pablo. 1978. Fuentes de historia social americana: Bolivia tierra y población
1825–1936, vol. I. Lima: Biblioteca Andina.
MacKay, A. 1977. Spain in the Middle Ages: from frontier to empire, 1000–1500.
New York: St Martin’s Press.
Maillo Salgado, Felipe. 1983. Los arabismos del castellano en la baja Edad
Media. Salamanca: Universidad de Salamanca, Instituto Hispano-Arabe de
Cultura.
Masica, Colin P. 1993. The Indo-Aryan languages. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Masó, Calixto C. 1976. Historia de Cuba. Miami, FL: Ediciones Universal.
Matthews, Stephen and Virginia Yip. 1994. Cantonese: a comprehensive grammar.
London: Routledge.
Maurer, Philippe. 1995. L’angolar: un creole afro-portugais parlé à São Tomé.
Hamburg: Helmut Buske Verlag.
1998. El papiamentu de Curazao, in América negra, edited by Perl and Schwegler.
139–217.
McCune, William. 2005. Brazilian and Continental Portuguese vowels: a spectro-
graphic study of context and style in vowel duration and quality. Bloomington,
IN: Indiana University typescript.
McWhorter, John. 2000. The missing Spanish creoles: recovering the birth of plan-
tation contact languages. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Mello, Heliana R. de, Alan N. Baxter, John Holm, and William Megenny. 1998. O
português vernáculo do Brasil, in América negra, edited by Perl and Schwegler.
71–137.
Middendorf, Ernst W. 1970 [1890]. Gramática keshwa. Madrid: Editorial Aguilar.
Middleton, John (ed.). 1997. Encyclopedia of Africa south of the Sahara. 4 vols. New
York: C. Scribner’s Sons.
Mira Mateus, Maria Helena, Ana Maria Brito, Inês Duarte, and Isabel Hub Faria.
1989. Gramática da lı́ngua portuguesa. Lisbon: Caminho.
Moliner, Marı́a. 1984. Diccionario de uso del español. Madrid: Gredos.
Mueller-Vollmer, Kurt. 1998. German–American cultural interaction in the Jackson-
ian era: six unpublished letters by Francis Lieber and John Pickering to Wilhelm
von Humboldt. Die Unterrichtspraxis 31.1–11.
Bibliography 247
Mufwene, Salikoko. 1997. Jargons, pidgins, creoles, and koinés: what are they?, in
The structure and status of pidgins and creoles, edited by Arthur K. Spears and
Donald Winford. Amsterdam: Benjamins, 35–70.
2001. The ecology of language evolution. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Mühlhäusler, Peter. 1986. Pidgins and creole linguistics. Oxford: Blackwell.
Muysken, Pieter and Norval Smith. 1990. Question words in pidgin and creole lan-
guages. Linguistics 28.883–903.
1995. The study of pidgin and creole languages, in Pidgins and creoles: an
introduction, edited by Jacques Arends, Pieter Muysken, and Norval Smith.
Amsterdam: Benjamins, 3–14.
Nardi, Ricardo L. 1976. Lenguas en contacto: el substrato quechua en el Noroeste
Argentino. Filologı́a 16–17:131–150.
Naro, Anthony 1978. A study on the origins of pidginization. Language 54(2).347.
Naro, Anthony and Maria Marta Pereira Scherre. 1993. Sobre as origins do português
popular do Brasil. Revista DELTA 9:437–454.
Navas Sánchez-Élez, Marı́a Victoria. 1992. El barranqueño: un modelo de lenguas en
contacto. Revista de Filologı́a Románica 9.225–246.
1994. Canciones cantadas por los quintos de Barrancos: un caso de contacto de
lenguas. Variação lingüı́stica no espaço, no tempo e na sociedade, in Proceedings
of the Asociação Portuguesa de Linguı́stica, Miranda do Douro, September 1992.
APL/Edições Colibri, 147–182.
1996. Importancia de los asentamientos humanos en la configuración de un área
geográfica: el caso de la margen izquierda del Guadiana, in Proceedings of the
Congreso Internacional Luso-Español de Lengua y Cultura de la Frontera,
Cáceres, vol. II, edited by Juan M. Carrasco González and Antonio Viudas
Camarasa. Cáceres: Universidad de Extremadura, 411–430.
1997. Factores lingüı́sticos y extralingüı́sticos que determinan la alternancia de
variantes de -/s/ en un dialecto luso-español, el barranqueño. Revista de Filologı́a
Románica 14.391–410.
2001. Relaciones entre las hablas andaluzas y portuguesas meridionales próximas.
Revista de Filologı́a Románica 18.171–185.
Ortiz López, Luis A. 1998. Huellas etno-sociolingüı́sticas bozales y afrocubanas.
Frankfurt am Main: Vervuert.
Otheguy, Ricardo. 1973. The Spanish Caribbean: a creole perspective, in New ways of
analyzing variation in English, edited by Charles-James N. Bailey and Roger W.
Shuy. Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press, 323–339.
Pandharipande, Rajeshwari. 1997. Marathi. London: Routledge.
Pargman, Sheri. 2004. Gullah duh and periphrastic do in English dialects: another look
at the evidence. American Speech 79.3–32.
Parkvall, Mikael. 2000. Out of Africa: African influence in Atlantic creoles. London:
Battlebridge.
Penny, Ralph. 1991. A history of the Spanish language. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
2000. Variation and change in Spanish. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Pérez de la Riva, Juan. 1979. El monto de la inmigración forzada en el siglo XIX.
Havana: Editorial de Ciencias Sociales.
Perl, Matthias. 1982. Creole morphosyntax in the Cuban “habla bozal.” Studii ş
s i
Cercetâri Lingvistice 5.424–433.
248 Bibliography
1987. ‘Habla bozal’ – Eine Spanisch-basierte Kreolesprache? in Beiträge zur
Afrolusitanistik und Kreolistik: linguistische Studien, edited by Matthias Perl
172.1–17.
Perl, Matthias and Armin Schwegler. 1998. América negra: panorámica actual del los
estudios lingüı́sticos sobre variedades hispanas, portuguesas, y criollas. Madrid:
Iberoamericana.
Petri, H. L. and M. Mishkin. 1994. Behaviorism, cognitivism and the neuropsychology
of memory. American Scientist 82.30–37.
Picallo, M. Carme and Gemma Rigau. 1999. El posesivo y las relaciones posesivas
(ch. 15, vol. I), in Gramática descriptiva de la lengua española, edited by Ignacio
Bosque and Violeta Demonte. 3 vols. Madrid: Espasa, 973–1023.
Pichardo, Esteban. 1953 [1849]. Diccionario provincial casi razonado de voces
cubanas. 2nd edn. Havana: Imprenta de M. Soler.
Pillai, Puthusseri Ramachandran. 1973. Language of Middle Malayalam. Trivandrum:
Dravidian Linguistics Association of India.
Posner, Rebecca. 1993. La romanité des creoles à base lexical romane, in Actes du
XXe Congrés International de Linguistique et Philologie Romanes, edited by G.
Hilty. Tübingen: Francke, 251–263.
Post, Marike. 1995. Fa d’Ambu, in Pidgins and creoles: an introduction, edited by
Jacques Arends, Pieter Muysken, and Norval Smith. Amsterdam. Benjamins,
191–204.
Quint, Nicolas. 2000. Grammaire de la langue cap-verdienne: étude descriptive et
comprehensive du créole afro-portugais des Îles du Cap-Vert. Paris: L’Harmattan.
Ramos Hernández, Reinaldo, Arturo A. Pedroso Alés and Flor Inés Cassola Triamma.
2000. Barrio chino de La Habana. Catauro 2(2).
Ramos Tinhorão, José. 1997. Os negros em Portugal: uma presença silenciosa. Lis-
bon: Caminho.
Reichmann, Felix. 1945. Francis Lieber: Pennsylvania German Dialect. American
German Review February:24–27.
Ricklefs, Merle Calvin. 1978. Modern Javanese historical tradition: a study of an
original Kartasura chronicle and related materials. London: School of Oriental
and African Studies, University of London.
Rivarola, José Luis. 1989. Bilingüı́smo histórico y español andino, in Actas del IX
Congreso de la Asociación Internacional de Hispanistas, edited by S. Neu-
meister. Frankfurt: Vervuert, 153–163.
Robison, R. E. 1995. The aspect hypothesis revisited: a cross-sectional study of tense
and aspect marking in interlanguage. Applied Linguistics 16.345–370.
Rodrı́guez, José Ignacio. 1874. La vida de Don José de la Luz Caballero. New York:
El Mundo Nuevo–La América Ilustrada.
Sánchez, Liliana. 2003. Quechua–Spanish bilingualism: interference and convergence
in functional categories. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Sánchez-Albornoz, Nicolás. 1974. The population of Latin America: a history.
Berkeley: University of California Press.
Sarton, George. 1927–1931. Introduction to the history of science. 3 vols. Baltimore:
Williams and Wilkins Co.
Schachter, Paul. 1987. Tagalog, in The world’s major languages, edited by Bernard
Comrie. New York: Oxford, 936–958.
Bibliography 249
Schuchardt, H. 1909. Lingua franca. Zeitschrift für romanische Philologie 33.441–
461.
Schumann, J. H. 1978. The pidginization process: a model for second language
acquisition. Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Schwegler, Armin. 1993. Rasgos (afro-)portugueses en el criollo del Palenque de San
Basilio (Colombia), in Homenaje a José Vidal, edited by Carmen Diaz Alayon.
La Laguna, Tenerife: Litografı́a A. Romero, 667–696.
1996a. La doble negación dominicana y la génesis del español caribeño. Hispanic
Linguistics 8.247–315.
1996b. ‘Chi ma nkongo’: lengua y rito ancestrales en El Palenque de San Basilio
(Colombia). Frankfurt am Main and Madrid: Vervuert.
1998. El palenquero, in América negra, edited by Perl and Schwegler. 219–291.
Schwenter, Scott A. 2006. Null objects across South America, in Selected proceedings
of the 8th Hispanic Linguistics Symposium, edited by Timothy Face and Carol
Klee. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Proceedings Project, 23–36.
Schwenter, Scott A. and Gláucia Silva. 2002. Overt vs. null direct objects in spoken
Brazilian Portuguese: a semantic/pragmatic account. Hispania 85.577–586.
2003. Anaphoric direct objects in spoken Brazilian Portuguese: semantics and
pragmatics. Revista Internacional de Lingüı́stica Iberoamericana 2.109–133.
Sebba, M. 1997. Contact languages: pidgins and creoles. New York: St Martin’s
Press.
Serrão, Joaquim Verı́ssimo. 1978. História de Portugal: o século de ouro (1495–
1580), vol. III. Cacém: Editorial Verbo.
Shi, D. 1991. Chinese Pidgin English: its origin and linguistic features. Journal of
Chinese Linguistics 19.1–40.
Shirai, Y. 1991. Primacy of aspect in language acquisition: simplified input and
prototype. Los Angeles: University of Southern California.
Siegel, Jeff. 2000. Processes of language contact: studies from Australia and the
South Pacific. Quebec: Fides.
Smith, Carlota. 1991. The parameter of aspect. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Smith, Ian. 1977. Sri Lanka Creole Portuguese phonology. Cornell University Ph.D
dissertation. Ithaca, NY.
Squire, L. R. 1987. Memory and the brain. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Squire, L. R. and S. Zola-Morgan. 1991. The medial temporal lobe memory system.
Science 253:1380–1386.
Tarracha Ferreira, Maria Ema (ed.). 1994. Antologia do Cancioneiro geral de Garcia
de Resende. Lisbon: Ulisseia.
Teyssier, Paul. 1984. História da lı́ngua portuguesa. Second edition. Lisbon: Sa da
Costa.
Thomason, Sarah G. 2001. Language contact: an introduction. Washington, DC:
Georgetown University Press.
Thomason, Sarah G. and Terrence Kaufman. 1988. Language contact, creolization,
and genetic linguistics. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Torre Revello, José. 1962. La enseñanza de las lenguas a los naturales de América.
Thesaurus. Boletı́n del Instituto Caro y Cuervo, 17.501–526.
Tovar, A. L. 1954. Linguistics and prehistory. Word 10.333–350.
250 Bibliography
1955. Cantabria prerromana, o lo que la lingüı́stica nos enseña sobre los antiguos
cántabros, vol. II. Santander: Universidad Internacional Menéndez y Pelayo.
1967. L’inscription du Cabeço das Fráguas et la langue des Lusitaniens. Études
Celtiques 11.237–268.
1977. Einführung in die Sprachgeschichte der iberischen Halbinsel. Tübingen:
Verlag Gunter Narr.
Van Minde, Don. 1997. Malayu Ambong: phonology, morphology, syntax. Leiden:
CNWS.
Van Valin, Robert D. and Randy J. La Polla. 1997. Syntax: structure, meaning, and
function. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Vargas Orellana, Nelly Elena. 1998. Orden de palabras: (sujeto)–objeto–verbo, in
Español y quechua en el noroeste argentino, edited by Fernández Lávaque and
del Valle Rodas, 91–96.
Vendler, Zeno. 1967. Linguistics in philosophy. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.
Waltermire, Mark. 2006. Social and linguistic correlates of Spanish–Portuguese
bilingualism on the Uruguayan–Brazilian border. Unpublished University of New
Mexico Ph.D dissertation. Albuquerque, NM.
Wardhaugh, Ronald. 2002. An introduction to sociolinguistics. Oxford: Blackwell.
Weber, David John. 1989. A grammar of Huallaga (Huánco) Quechua. Berkeley:
University of California Press.
Whinnom, Keith. 1956. Spanish contact vernaculars in the Philippine Islands. Hong
Kong: Hong Kong University Press.
Willis, C. 1993. The world chopped in half. La Vida Hispánica 8.21–27.
Winford, Donald. 2003. An introduction to contact linguistics. Malden, MA: Blackwell.
Zobl, H. 1982. A direction for contrastive analysis: the comparative study of devel-
opmental sequences. TESOL Quarterly 16.169–183.
Zúñiga, Madeleine. 1974. La educación bilingüe y la enseñanza de pronunciación
castellana a niños quechua-hablantes. Universidad Nacional Mayor de San
Marcos Centro de Investigación de Lingüı́stica Aplicada. The Pontificia Uni-
versidad Católica of Perú Ph.D dissertation. Lima.
Bibliography 251
Author index
Adelaar, K. A. 171
Aimes, Hubert 69
Andersen, R. W. 14, 17, 138, 210
Aráoz, Dora 187
Bachiller y Morales, Antonio 32, 69, 89, 90,
91, 92, 107
Bakker, Peter 110, 124, 125
Baldinger, K. 32
Bartens, Angela 54
Bates, Elizabeth 11, 12, 13, 14, 26, 96, 211
Baxter, Alan N. 6, 51
Beltrán, J. 128
Bickerton, Derek 1
Blackshire-Belay, Carol 124
Bloomfield, Leonard 139
Bresnan, Joan 11
Bretherton, I. 14
Broihier, K. 12
Brown, James H. 10
Bybee, Joan 48, 94, 134
Cabrera, Lydia 68, 69, 81, 98
Carranza Romero, Francisco 159, 160, 162
Cerrón-Palomino, Rodolfo 159–189,
214, 215
Chambers, J. L. 8
Chaudenson, Robert 80
Clements, J. Clancy 50, 51, 57, 59, 60, 70, 71,
79, 96, 97, 121, 129, 139, 150, 156, 202,
206, 205
Comrie, Bernard 33, 34
Corominas, Joan 31, 34
Croft 5, 8, 10, 11, 18, 26, 36, 38, 42, 55, 56,
57, 153, 210, 212, 125
Curchin, L. A. 28
Da Azevedo Maia, Clarinda 192, 193
Davis, Stuart 70, 71
Del Valle Rodas, Juana 170, 181, 182,
185, 186
De Matos Coelho, Adelino 192
De Oliveira Marques, A. H. 28, 36, 37, 38, 40,
43, 45, 57, 59, 191
Devevan, William M. 160
Dromi, Esther 3, 13
Dutton, T. 125
Escobar, Alberto 175
Escobar, Anna Maria 175
Feke, Marilyn 172, 187
Fernández Lávaque, Ana Marı́a 170, 181, 182,
183, 186, 187, 188
Fernández, Mauro 66
Ferraz, Luiz Ivens 51
Forman, Michael Lawrence 51
Friederici, A. D. 14
Futuyma, D. J. 4
Garcı́a, C. 128–129
Gili Gaya, Samuel 134
Givón, T. 1, 3, 4
Goldberg, Adele E. 3, 11, 13, 14, 26, 210
González, Paz 18, 160
Goodman, Judith 11, 12, 13, 14, 26, 96, 211
Granda, German 68, 69
Günther, Wilfried 51
Guy, Gregory 6
Hall, Rober 110, 124
Hinnenkamp, Volker 124
Holm, John A. 6, 21, 22, 48, 52, 54,
60, 124
Hopper, Paul 3
Hualde, José Ignacio 200
Hull, David L. 8
Ihalainen, Ossi 21
Jiménez Pastrana, Juan 104, 107, 108, 110,
111, 112, 116, 117
Karmiloff–Smith, A. 14
Kaufman, Terrance 11, 18, 26, 49, 50
252
Kihm, Alain 51
Klein, Wolfgang 11, 13, 47, 97, 112, 123, 124,
157, 213
Koontz-Garboden, Andrew J. 51, 57, 59, 95
Langacker, Ronald 11
Lapesa, Rafael 34, 193, 194, 200
Lee, L. 12
Leite de Vasconcelos, José 192, 194, 195,
196, 197, 198, 200, 201, 207, 215,
216, 190
Levin, Beth 11, 14
Li, Charles 141, 147, 156
Li, Ping 139, 141
Lieber, Francis 81
Lipski, John 69, 71, 77, 80, 86, 92, 96, 97, 98,
99, 109, 110
López Meirama, Belén 4
Lorenzino, Gerardo Augusto 51, 99,
202, 205
Luis, Ana 203
MacKay, A. 39, 40
Mahboob, Ahmar 53, 121, 156
Maillo Salgado, Felipe 37
Masica, Colin P. 63
Masó, Calixto C. 72–80, 92, 99, 160
Matthews, Stephen 119
Maurer, Philippe 51, 54, 98, 115
McCune, William 6
McWhorter, John 68, 69, 86
Megenny, William 6
Mello, Heliana R. De 6
Middleton, John (ed.) 75
Mira Mateus, Maria Helena 202
Mishkin, M. 14
Mufwene, Salikoko 2, 5, 8, 10, 26, 34, 35, 36,
38, 69, 80, 210
Mühlhäusler, Peter 2, 124
Muysken, Pieter 121, 156
Nardi, Ricardo L. 164, 183
Naro, Anthony 6, 46
Navas Sánchez–Élez, Marı́a Victoria 190,
200, 205
Nusbaum, H. C. 12
Olarrea, Antxon 200
Ortheguy, Ricardo 68, 69
Ortiz López, Luis A. 68, 69, 81, 96, 97, 98,
99, 122
Pandharipande, Rajeshwari 63
Pardo, Elly 48
Pargman, Sherri 21, 22
Parkvall, Mikael 96
Perdue, Clive 11, 13, 47, 97, 112, 123, 124,
213
Pérez de la Riva, Juan 92
Perl, Matthias 68, 69, 71, 92, 97, 98
Petri, H. L. 3
Pichardo, Esteban 69, 88, 89, 91, 92
Pillai, Puthusseri Ramachandran 62
Quint, Nicolas 51
Ramos Tinhorão, José 10, 43, 45
Rappaport Hovav 11, 14
Ricklefs, Merle Calvin 63
Rivarola, José Luis 162, 164, 165, 188, 214
Rodrı́guez, José Ignacio 82
Salas, Américo 187
Sánchez-Albornoz, Nicolás 160
Sarton, George 38
Scherre, Maria Marta Pereira 6
Schuchardt, Hugo 164
Schwegler, Armin 68, 69, 97, 99, 115, 122
Schwenter, Scott 6, 99
Sebba, M. 124
Serrão, Joaquim Verı́ssimo 40, 57
Shi, D. 213
Shirai, Yasuhiro 14, 17, 20, 139, 138, 141, 210
Siegel, Jeff 153
Silva, Gláucia 6
Smith, Carlota 141, 156
Smith, Ian 33, 34, 51
Smith, Norval 121
Squire, L. R. 3
Tarracha Ferreira, Maria Ema (ed.) 46
Thomason, Sarah G. 11, 18, 26, 49, 50
Thompson, Sandra 11, 141, 147, 156
Tovar Llorente, Antonio 28–33, 35, 211
Trudgill, Peter 8
Vargas Orellana, Nelly Elena 183, 184
Waltermire, Mark 190
Weber, David John 24, 171, 173, 174
Whinnom, Keith 50, 52, 65
Winford, Donald 50, 124, 125
Yip, Virginia 119
Zobl, H. 11, 13, 96
Zola-Morgan, S. 3
Zúñiga, Madeleine 172
Author index 253
General index
Accomplishment (Vendlerian) 15, 47
Achievement (Vendlerian) 15
Activity (Vendlerian) 15, 111, 132, 138
agglutinative 171, 173
Ahmed-ben-Madjid 57
Andean Spanish 25, 79, 95, 158–189
Angolar 42, 50, 52, 99
Arabic 6, 34, 37, 38
are [ar] 21
asina (also ancina) 196–197
Asturias 37–38
Atahualpa 158, 159
Azores Islands 39, 41
‘basic variety’ 11, 47, 97, 103, 112, 123, 124,
157, 213
Bassein 40, 60, 63
Bibı́ 98
bootstrapping 11–14, 26
borrowing 18–24
bozal Spanish 68–99
buscar 15
Calicut 40
Canary Islands 39, 74, 79, 95, 143
Cantonese 6, 132
Cape Verde 40, 41, 42, 43, 50, 194
Capeverdean Creole Portuguese (see
Kabuverdianu)
Carabalı́ 93, 98
Castilian 30–41, 88, 141, 161–162,
211–212
Castilianization 193, 214
Catalan 32, 33, 36, 38, 79, 103
Causal Order Hypothesis (Causal Chain
Hypothesis) 42–43, 54, 57
CETEMPúblico Data Base 22
Charles III 75, 79
Chaul 40, 59, 60
Chinese 1, 6, 11, 106–123, 129, 151
Chinese Coolie Spanish 102–123, 132, 141
(see also Coolies in Cuba)
Chinese Immigrant Spanish 102, 111, 114,
124–157, 213
Cochin 40
Cochin Creole Portuguese 62
communication 1, 2, 3, 4, 10, 13, 26, 126, 127,
129, 153, 160, 210, 211
adult-to-adult 10, 18, 26
grammatical 1, 2
pre-grammatical 1, 2–3
communicative/conversational intercourse 8,
36, 38, 210
communicative/conversational isolation 8, 36,
125–127, 212
Congo 93, 98
contact intensity 18
contamos 20, 21
contar 20 (see also cuenta, contamos, cuentan)
Coolies in Cuba 102–123 (see also Chinese
Coolie Spanish)
copula 1, 2, 4, 10, 14, 20, 21–23, 24, 26, 69,
71, 81, 93, 95, 101, 111, 115, 121, 132,
134, 153, 214
creole 132, 157, 164, 175, 212, 213
English-based 21, 22, 68
French-based 68, 81, 88, 92
Portuguese-based 10, 20, 22, 23, 41, 42–65,
68, 99, 101, 95, 139, 157, 212, 214
Spanish-based 42–65, 115, 139, 157,
212, 213
CREA (Corpus de Referencia del Español
Actual) 15, 21, 90–95, 180, 186, 197
Croatian 8
CRPC (Corpus Referencial de Português
Contemporáneo) 22
Cuba 68–84
cuenta 20, 21
cuentan 21
CV structure 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 26, 48, 49,
131, 143
da (na) in some English-based creoles
21–22, 48
254
Daman Creole Portuguese 60, 63, 70–71,
81–100, 101, 108
da Mota, Anrique/Enrique 45, 46
Distributional Bias Hypothesis (DBH) 15, 17,
137–139
Diu 40, 59, 60, 63
Diu Creole Portuguese 7, 17, 38, 68
Dutch 7
Emergent Grammar 3, 13, 26, 210
evolutionary biology 4
Fa D’Ambu 52, 54–63
feature pool 18–27, 34, 47, 49, 127, 130–131,
143, 171, 177, 181
first language acquisition (see L1 / first
language acquisition)
French 33, 38, 68, 70, 79
functionalist 5, 1
Galician 28–36, 79, 103, 211
Gangá 98
German 7
Germanic 35
Goa 40, 60
grammatical relation marker 42, 48
Gullah 21
Guyanese 21
Haitian 70, 79, 86, 92
Hanseatic League 40
Henry the Navigator 40
heterogeneity 49
Hindi 5, 6, 62
Iberian Romance 32, 211
immigrant Spanish 1, 4, 11, 14, 20, 23, 24, 26,
41, 47–49
immigrant speech 40, 52, 59, 124
Inca(s) 158–159
indigenismo 162
Indonesia 61, 63
Indo-Portuguese creoles 57–65, 108
Irish 31
is [z] 21–22
Jamaican 21
Kabuverdianu 23, 52–55
Kannada 62
Kikongo 52, 54–65, 99, 101
Kimbundu 52, 54–67, 99, 101
Knowledge 1
communication of represented 1
representation of 1
Korlai Creole Portuguese 54–67, 108
Krio 21
Kristang 60–65 (see also Malay (Malacca)
Creole Portuguese, and Papia Kristang)
Kriyol 52–55
L1 / first language acquisition 11–14, 11,
13, 14, 18, 24, 26, 47, 98, 99, 123,
132, 139
L2 / second language acquisition 124–127,
132, 213
untutored L2 acquisition 15, 71, 92
language as parasitic species 8
Latin 28–38, 34, 211
lengua general 161, 160
lexical aspect 14, 15
lexical connections 21
lexical strength 20, 21, 22
Lieber, Francis 70–86, 88–100, 101, 213
Linguistic Data Consortium American English
Spoken Lexicon 21
Lisbon 32, 43–46, 211
lo (non-pronominal) 179–180, 183–184
locative 119, 121, 145, 146, 147, 150–152,
178, 214
logo 46, 47, 49
Lucumı́ 98
luego 49, 118, 119
Lusitania 28–36, 211
Makista (Macau) Creole Portuguese 23, 59,
60, 111, 63
Malay 52–57, 63, 64
Malay (Malacca) Creole Portuguese 57
(see also Papia Kristang)
Malayalam 54–63, 60
Mandarin 6, 106, 129, 151, 141
Mandinka 52
Mantaro Valley (Peru) 170, 171–188
manteca 34
manteiga 34
markedness 18, 19, 23, 24, 26, 27, 49–50, 211
mitmaq 159
Montezuma 158
Moor 191, 192, 212
morcela 31, 34
morcilla 31, 34
morir 17
nacer 17
Norteiro 60, 63
Palenquero 54–55, 95, 99, 115
Papia Kristang 52, 54 (see also Malay
(Malacca) Creole Portuguese)
Papiamentu 54, 57, 69, 80, 91–92, 98, 101, 115
perceptual salience 22, 25, 54, 94, 95, 96, 214
General index 255
perna 33
perro 34
Persian 6
Philippine Creole Spanish 50, 52, 54, 57, 60,
63–66
pidgin 1, 2, 4, 10, 13, 14, 20, 24, 26, 46, 48,
49, 71, 80, 81, 92, 99, 100, 103, 110, 123,
124–126, 127, 132, 141, 157, 210, 213
English 86, 116, 121, 144, 213
Portuguese 10, 54, 60–66, 212, 214
Spanish 71, 100, 213
pierna 33
Pizarro 158–159
poder 15
polyploidy 10
polytypic language 6, 37
Portugal 7, 10, 22, 36–41, 42–47, 57,
210–212, 215–216
Portuguese 6, 10–11, 21, 27, 30–39, 41,
42–65, 92, 99, 190–209, 210–217
African 10, 11, 48, 54–65, 212
pre-Roman lexicon 30, 31, 33–34
Primacy of Aspect (POA) Hypothesis 14, 15,
17, 137–139, 210
Principense 52
pronominalization, false 163, 179, 183,
188, 215
protolanguage 1
prototype 4
Quechua 19, 21, 24, 159–189, 214, 215
querer 15, 33, 180
Romanian 33
romper 17
saber 15
Salta (Argentina) 171–188, 214, 215
Sãotomense 52, 54
second language acquisition (see L2 / second
language acquisition)
semantic relation marker 42, 48
ser 22, 47, 86, 111, 115, 121, 132, 144,
153, 162
Serbian 8
shift 18–24
sibling language 5
slave trade 45, 69, 70, 71, 75
social network 8
sociolinguistic(s) 5
sociolinguistic marker 19
SOV (subject-object-verb) 171, 174, 183
species 5–10, 26
essentialist view of 5
polytypic 5
sibling 5
Sranan 86
Sri Lanka 40, 59, 60, 63
Sri Lankan Malay 64
State (Vendlerian) 15, 111, 132, 137, 138
substrate 32, 35, 43, 48, 54, 211, 212
African 21
syncretism 21, 42, 54
ta (TMA marker) 97–99, 115–116, 121
Tamil 60
Tartesians 28–29
tense-aspect-mood marker 2, 14, 42, 47,
48–55, 97, 115, 120, 132–139
Ternate 40, 52, 63
Ternateño Creole Portuguese 65
Timor 40
Timor Creole Portuguese 63
trabajar 15–25
transfer (in L2 acquisition) 132
Tupac Amaru 161
typological fit 18, 23, 24, 26
Urdu 5, 6
vai 48, 97–99
Vasco da Gama 40, 57
Vicente, Gil 45
Welsh 31
Wolof 52
ya 47, 49, 97–99, 156–157, 214
Yoruba 101
Yupanqui, Francisco Tito 162, 164, 176, 179,
181, 182, 183
Zamboangueño (see Philippine Creole
Spanish)
256 General index
