	 Lexical subjects and the conflation strategy 21
course context that would welcome it is an imaginative exercise: if the definite NPs the
farmer and the duckling are to be construed as referential, the sentence is a report, but
if it is a report, as opposed to, say, a gnomic statement, its inflection should be present
progressive rather than simple present. Considered in another light, however, Sapir’s
choice makes sense. Fully expanded sentences are useful precisely because they do not
index any context. As a consequence, the reader need not perform referent recovery in
a vacuum and can discern the basic argument order of the language under study, which
might otherwise be obscured by the weakening of syntactic and prosodic integrity that
is characteristic of indexical and anaphoric reference.
	 From the foregoing examples one could infer that markedness reversal, and accord-
ingly lexical subject-encoding, is exclusively a function of genre. Certainly, the impor-
tance of genre to argument-encoding constraints should not be minimized, as we will
see in the next section. However, our focus in this chapter will not be inter-genre vari-
ation but intra-speaker variation within a single genre, conversational speech. In par-
ticular, we will ask why a given speaker, at a given juncture, should choose one form of
subject encoding over another. Accordingly, we will view markedness, and markedness
reversal, as the real-time interplay between countervailing constraints on production,
as in the recent Optimality-theoretic accounts of optional rule application (so-called
stochastic OT; Boersma 1998). Our findings will be based on two different, although
overlapping, data sources. One data source is the frequency and morphosyntactic dis-
tribution of lexical subjects, based on automatic sorting of the declarative sentences
in an online corpus of conversational English. Wherever appropriate, this distribu-
tion is compared to that of lexical objects. The other data source is a balanced sample
of the lexical subjects in the corpus, in which the authors hand-coded the discourse–
­
pragmatic linkages of lexical-subject denotata to prior and subsequent context.
	 On the basis of these analyses, we will argue that lexical subjects are symptomatic
of a conflation strategy, in which the speaker compresses into a single clause two
pragmatic functions that are ordinarily performed in a sequence of two clauses: estab-
lishing a new topic and commenting about that topic. The markedness of the conflation
strategy accounts for the relative rarity of productions like (3) in the corpus, but the
mere fact that such productions do occur shows that speakers do not uniformly avoid
the conflation strategy. Why not? We will argue that fully expanded instances of the
SV(O) pattern are discourse-motivated syntactic amalgams in the sense of Lambrecht
1988. These amalgams allow speakers to simultaneously satisfy two competing optimi-
zation principles, namely, the two halves of the Gricean quantity maxim, as described
by Horn (1984). These constraints have enjoyed a recent revival in optimality-theoretic
accounts of case, in particular that of Aissen (2003), where they are referred to, respect-
ively, as the iconicity constraint (marked mappings receive morphological marks)
and the economy condition (specification of morphological marks is penalized).
There is, however, a critical difference between Aissen’s implementation and the current
one. For Aissen the tension between the two constraints is resolved through constraint
ranking, whereas in the production scenario to be described here the speaker strikes
22	 Laura Michaelis and Hartwell Francis
a morphosyntactic compromise between the two competing constraints, through the
use of the marked SV(O) amalgam and the forms of givenness encoding (Gundel at al.
1993) that are generally characteristic of highly accessible referents.
	 We begin in Section 2 with a review of models of the function of subjects in spoken
English and an overview of the distribution of lexical versus pronominal NPs in the
corpus under study. In Section 3 we discuss the morphosyntactic and textual proper-
ties of lexical subjects in the corpus. In Section 4 we consider Lambrecht’s (1994) Prin-
ciple of Separation of Reference and Role as a constraint on subject encoding in English,
and describe an opposing principle that is simultaneously in play during functional
encoding. In Section 5 we argue that patterns in the morphosyntactic coding of lexical
subjects provide evidence for the claim that speakers’ productions involve attempts to
mediate between hearer- and speaker-based constraints.
2.  The discourse function of subjects
2.1  Topics and subjects
Researchers in functional syntax have converged on the finding that the grammatical
role of subject is, at least canonically, the syntactic expression of the discourse role of
topic (Givón 1984; Lambrecht 1994; Van Valin and LaPolla 1997). For example, Mith-
un (1991: 160) asserts that “[t]he function of subjects is clear: They are essentially gram-
maticized clause topics.” The statistical connection between the roles of topic and sub-
ject also shows up in the statement of typological constraints on quantifier scope (Ioup
1975; Kuno 1991). These constraints are stated in the form of aligned scope rankings, in
which topical NPs outrank nontopical NPs and subject NPs outrank nonsubject NPs.
The need for separate statements concerning subjects and topics arises because subjects
and topics are in principle distinct: there are, e.g., topical object denotata just as there
are focal subject denotata. These scope rankings collude to induce a strong preference
for wide scope of the subject quantifier in sentences whose argument structures are
strongly biased in favor of topical subjects. One such argument structure is the ‘trans-
form’ pattern exemplified in (4a). In this pattern, the ‘raw material’ argument maps to
a direct grammatical function and the ‘product’ argument to an oblique grammatical
function (Basilico 1998). The discourse–pragmatic mapping constraints on this con-
struction conspire to create a strong dispreference for both a topical ‘product’ argu-
ment, as shown in (4b), and a focal ‘raw material’ argument, as shown in (4c):
	 (4)	 a.	  That tiny acorn grew into a beautiful oak.
b.	 ??
That tiny acorn grew into it.
c.	 ??
A tiny acorn grew into that oak.
Because the ‘raw material’ argument must generally be topical, it must also have wide
scope relative to the focal ‘product’ argument, as predicted by Ioup’s scope-assignment
	 Lexical subjects and the conflation strategy 23
hierarchy. As a result, sentences like (5) are semantically anomalous: the ‘transform’ ar-
gument structure requires the subject NP to denote a topic, and thereby a specific in-
dividual. The result is a reading that conflicts with world knowledge, in which a single
acorn grows into multiple oaks:
	 (5)	 *An acorn grew into every oak.
It is clear that the scope constraint is not a function of thematic role or grammatical
function, since in the pattern exemplified in (5’) the theme argument (in this case, the
‘product’ argument) can have narrow scope with respect to the ‘raw material’ argu-
ment:
	 (5′)	 An oak grew out of every acorn.
The theme argument need not have wide scope because it need not be a topic. This is
shown by the fact that this argument can be focal, as in the sentence An oak grew out of
it. In other words, the scope constraint follows from the linkage of a given thematic role
to a given pragmatic role, as specified by a particular linking pattern.
	 The conception of topic that figures in the statement of discourse–pragmatic map-
ping constraints like those exemplified in (4)–(5) is that of clause topic. Lambrecht
(1994: Ch. 4) distinguishes clause topics from discourse topics by relating the former
concept to the articulation of a proposition into asserted and presupposed portions.
While a clause topic is not presupposed in the way that a proposition is, a clause topic
is ‘in the presupposition’ in the sense that its availability for commentary is taken for
granted. The view of a clause topic as the predictable argument in a predication is cap-
tured by Gundel’s (1988) definition of topic:
Topic. An entity E is the topic of a sentence, S, iff in using S the speaker intends to in-
crease the addressee’s knowledge about, request information about, or otherwise get
the addressee to act with respect to E. (Gundel 1988a: 210)
This definition of clause topic makes clear that the topic role is in principle distinct
from the discourse (givenness or familiarity) status of a referent. As Lambrecht and
Michaelis (1998) argue, evoked status does not entail topic status (pronouns, both
deictic and anaphoric, may be foci). By the same token, as Gundel (1988a,b) has ob-
served, topic status does not entail evoked status (a referent may be established in the
topic role in the very act of commenting about it). Therefore, topic status and evoked
status are not the same thing. However, as the “peg on which the message is hung” (Hal-
liday 1970: 161), a topic should be a referent whose appearance as an argument in the
predication at hand is predictable. The speaker and hearer, as intrinsically relevant par-
ticipants, are ipso facto predictable participants; third parties, by contrast, typically be-
come predictable participants only via prior mention. As a result, third-person subjects
tend to have discourse antecedents. This idea is captured by the markedness hierarchy
of shift types described in centering theory (Walker and Prince 1996): third-person
subjects tend to form anaphoric chains, as in B’s response in (6):
24	 Laura Michaelis and Hartwell Francis
	 (6)	 A:	 But does your sister live in a big community?
B:	
She lives, it’s a, it’s a fairly large community. She got real lucky, though.
She had a boss who, uh, moved into a larger office.
Because third-person evoked status is strongly associated with pronominal coding
(Gundel et al.) subjects tend to be pronouns, but this fact is only indirectly attributable
to the anaphoric function exemplified in (6). Third-person subjects are pronouns for
the same reason that deictic pronouns are: they denote entities that are already highly
salient to the conversants (Gundel et al.1993). Third-person direct objects, by contrast,
tend to be lexically expressed. This trend can be attributed to the strong tendency in
conversational corpora for new referents to be introduced in postverbal position and
resumed as pronominal subjects in subsequent predications:
	 (7)	 We used to see a husband and wife in there together and they were in the
same room which not all husband and wives were.
However, as mentioned, the two functions, topic-establishment and predication, may
be conflated into one clause rather than distributed over two. One such example is giv-
en in (8):
	 (8)	 My sister has a, she just had a baby. He’s about five months old, and she was
worrying about going back to work and what she was going to do with him.
In (8), both subject- and object-denotata are discourse new, and both persist as topics.
While the referent of a baby is in the grammatical position canonically dedicated to dis-
course-new entities, the referent of my sister is not. It is this type of example, in which
subject mapping represents a ‘short-circuited’ form of referent introduction that will
interest us here.
2.2  Distribution of subjects and objects in the corpus
The data for the current study were gathered from a syntactically parsed version of the
Switchboard corpus of American English telephone conversations (Godfrey et al. 1992;
Marcus et al. 1993). The Switchboard corpus is composed of approximately 2,400 diad-
ic telephone conversations between previously unacquainted adults. The participants
in the conversations vary in age and represent all major dialect groups. The parsed ver-
sion consists of 400 of these conversations. Using tgrep, Unix search strings that allow
hierarchical syntactic structures to be represented as regular expressions, we collected
Table 1  Subject-type distribution for 31,021 declarative sentences
Number Percentage
Lexical subjects 2,858 9%
Pronominal subjects 28,163 91%
	 Lexical subjects and the conflation strategy 25
a total of 31,021 subjects of declarative sentences from the parsed version of the cor-
pus. Of these, we found 91% to be pronouns, and only 9% to be lexical NPs. This dis-
tribution is shown in Table 1. Of course, we must establish that this preference for pro-
nominal encoding is not a fact about argument encoding as such. In order to do this,
we have compared subject-type distribution to object-type distribution in the data. As
shown by Table 2, the distribution of lexical objects versus pronominal objects is also
highly asymmetric. However, this asymmetry is the reverse of that found among sub-
ject expressions .
	 Comparison of Tables 1 and 2 shows that lexical coding is strongly dispreferred for
subject denotata in the corpus, while it is the preferred coding strategy for object de-
notata. The tendencies summarized in Tables 1 and 2 appear to be specific to the con-
versational genre (see Roland and Jurafsky 2002 for a discussion of genre-related biases
in speech corpora). While Givón (1984) finds, in general accord with our results, that
25.6% of the subjects in a corpus of spoken English narratives are lexical, written genres
yield very different results. For example, about 80% of subjects of declarative sentences
in the Wall Street Journal corpus are lexical NPs (Roland, p.c.). Similarly, Prince (1992)
finds that about 60% of the subjects in the ZPG fund-raising letter are lexical NPs. Of
course, it makes sense that the subject-coding preferences should differ in spoken and
written genres, since the processing of spoken language is temporally constrained in
ways that visual processing is not. And yet a model of subject encoding based solely on
the recipient-design features of spoken language will have nothing to say about those
cases in which spoken and written genres converge. How can we characterize the small
class of lexical subjects in our conversational data? In the following section, we will
pose three questions, the answers to which will determine the applicability of topic-
encoding constraints, and in particular Lambrecht’s (1994) Principle of Separation of
Reference and Role, to our data. As we will discuss in greater detail below, Lambrecht’s
constraint states that the first mention of a referent cannot also be a predication about
that referent. The questions are as follows:
 –  Do the lexical subjects in our data denote topical (as opposed to focal) entities?
 –  Do the lexical subjects in our data in fact denote discourse-new entities?
 –  Do the referents of lexical subjects persist in the discourse following introduction?
The first question pertains to the existence of an aboutness relation between the sub-
ject-referent and the proposition, as invoked by Lambrecht’s constraint. The second
and third questions pertain to the topic introduction function targeted by this con-
straint.
Table 2  Object type distribution for 7,489 transitive sentences
Number Percentage
Lexical objects 4,921 66%
Pronominal objects 2,568 34%
26	 Laura Michaelis and Hartwell Francis
3.  The nature of lexical subjects
Given the relatively minute number of lexical NPs in subject position, one must con-
sider whether the general discourse-pragmatic properties of subjects (topic status and
evoked status) extend to this small and potentially highly anomalous class of subjects.
Through an examination of sentences with lexical subjects, we find that this class is
both anomalous and regular: like most subjects, lexical subjects denote topical argu-
ments; unlike most subjects, however, they do not denote previously evoked referents.
3.1  Lexical subjects have topical denotata
Many researchers have pointed out that there is not a one-to-one mapping between
the grammatical function of subject and the role of topic (Givón 1983a, Gundel 1988b,
Lambrecht 1994). Subject denotata may instead be focal. There are two focus con-
structions in which focal subjects can in principle occur: argument focus predica-
tions and thetic or, equivalently, sentence-focus predications (Kuroda 1972; Lam-
brecht 1994). Upon examination of the lexical subjects in our data, we found that the
semantico-pragmatic hallmarks of these two focus constructions were missing. In or-
der to see what the relevant properties are, let us examine each of the two focus con-
structions in turn. Argument-focus sentences express pragmatically presupposed open
propositions (Jackendoff 1972; Ch. 6), as in (9):
	 (9)	 I was the only one who did not catch a single fish. My daughter caught fish,
his daughter caught fish, he caught fish.
In the series of clauses following the first sentence, the subject NPs identify the vari-
able in a presupposed open proposition ‘Someone caught fish’ (x = my daughter, his
daughter, etc.). Although argument-focus examples like (9) are found in the data, they
are rare, accounting for fewer than 3 percent of the sentences with lexical subjects. In
accordance with Prince (1992), who makes a similar observation, we find that argu-
ment focus is not a significant source of lexical coding in subject position. What then
of sentence focus? Rather than identifying a variable in an open proposition, sentence-
focus sentences present entities and/or report states of affairs. As Lambrecht argues
(1994: 320–2) the prosodically marked sentence-focus pattern in English is pragmatic-
ally equivalent to the syntactically marked inversion patterns of Italian and Spanish. An
example of the latter is given in (10):
	 (10)	 Sali-ó el médico
exit:3sg:past the doctor
‘The doctor came out.’  (Ocampo 1993: 356)
While the thetic pattern in Spanish reverses the canonical subject-predicate order,
the English version of this construction reverses the canonical accentuation pattern
(of English), in which primary prominence falls within the VP. English, as a plastic-
	 Lexical subjects and the conflation strategy 27
­
accent language in terms of Vallduví (1991) and Ladd (1996), can express the thetic
type by preserving canonical word order and shifting accent to the subject, as in the fol-
lowing example, from a conversation about the nature of the Russian military:
	 (11)	 They get real nasty, the hyundee helicopters come out.
If sentence-focus constructions were a significant source of lexically expressed subjects
in our data, we would expect the lexical subjects in the corpus to prefer intransitive
predicates, as sentence-focus sentences tend strongly to contain location and change-
of-state verbs, which are predominantly intransitive (see Lambrecht 1994: Ch 5). In
fact, the lexical subjects in our corpus data are no more highly correlated with intransi-
tivity than are pronominal subjects: intransitive verbs account for about 65% of both
the pronominal-subject and lexical-subject predications. Overall, predications in the
Switchboard corpus are highly intransitive and highly stative, as is typical of spoken
English (Thompson and Hopper 2001): copular predications (both predicational and
identificational) account for about 45% of the declarative sentences in the corpus, and
the stative verb have accounts for the majority of transitive predications.
	 Similarly lacking in the corpus are symptoms of sentence focus that relate to themat-
icstructure.Becauseunaccusativeandstativeverbsselectforundergoer-typesubjects,
sentence-focus sentences tend strongly to have patient subjects (Lambrecht 1994: 310).
However, the lexical subjects in our data appear to be no less agentive overall than the
pronominal subjects. Using a sort based on verbal Aktionsart, we determined that agen-
tive subjects account for fewer than 20% of both the lexical and pronominal subjects,
despite the fact that the majority of both lexical and pronominal subjects have animate
referents. For this reason, among others, Dubois’s (1987) Given A constraint does not ad-
equately capture the tendencies in our data. The Given A constraint states that ergative-
type arguments (i.e., subjects of transitive predications) tend to be topical, and thereby
null instantiated or, as in English, pronominally expressed. However, as we have seen,
pronominal expression is a feature not merely of agentive subject-referents but of subject
referents in general. Therefore, although it would seem reasonable to assume that lexic-
al subjects and lexical objects have common semantico-pragmatic properties, it appears
that the object properties of undergoer status and focus status are neither necessary nor
sufficient conditions on lexical subject-encoding. The former condition (undergoer sta-
tus) is just as likely to result in pronominal as lexical encoding of subjects, and the latter
condition (sentence focus) is virtually never in force. Like pronominal subjects, lexical
subjects have animate, topical referents. There is, however, an important difference be-
tween lexical subjects and pronominal subjects: as we will show in the next subsection,
the referents of lexical subjects strongly tend to be discourse-new.
3.2  Lexical subjects have denotata that are new to the discourse
As discussed earlier, we presume, along with a number of other theorists (Ladd 1996;
Prince 1992; Lambrecht 1994; Lambrecht and Michaelis 1998), that a topical referent
28	 Laura Michaelis and Hartwell Francis
can in principle be a discourse-new referent. Because discourse-old referents will tend
to be coded pronominally rather than lexically, one can reasonably predict that lexic-
al subjects will in fact have discourse-new referents. In order to test this prediction, we
used the scalar anaphoricity measure employed by Gregory and Michaelis (2001) to
code a stratified sample of approximately 280 of the lexical subjects in the corpus. This
sample consisted of seven subsets of approximately forty tokens each (some tokens in
each set had to be discarded for various reasons). The subsets were selected accord-
ing to the morphosyntactic form of the subject NP, as follows: definitely determined
NPs (e.g., the teacher), demonstratively determined NPs (e.g., that place), bare plural or
mass nouns (e.g., criminals, oil), possessively determined nouns (e.g., my uncle), proper
nouns (e.g., Guns and Roses), quantified nouns (e.g., a lot of men) and indefinitely de-
termined NPs (e.g., a turtle). For each token in the sample, we examined the ten turns
preceding the target utterance in order to determine whether there was (a) no prior
mention of the lexical-denotatum, (b) prior mention of a superset containing the
lexical-subject denotatum, or (c) prior mention of that denotatum. The passages in
(12)–(13) exemplify each of the three respective points on the anaphoricity scale:
	 (12)	 No prior mention
B:	
Yeah, that’s that’s great. Well, when I was a kid my father had all different
kinds of travel trailers.
A:	 Oh.
B:	
Whatever he liked he had a travel trailer, and he had a Winnebago. and
he had a truck camper, and he was always buying new things like that and
I hated it. I—I hated going camping and
A:	 Oh.
B:	
Wh[en]—when I got older I liked things like Caesar’s Palace. You know,
that’s where I like to stay and and
B:	
Oh yeah and oh okay you can’t you’re gonna camp out at Caesar’s Palace
huh
B:	
Uh right exactly so this summer um my boyfriend lives in California
A:	 All right.
B:	 and he loves to go camping and he s[aid]: “Let’s go camping”, and I went.
	 (13)	 Superset mention
And it was uh it had a lot of turtles in it, and I got all ready to go and I was
down in the water and and set to go and a and just as that boat took off a tur-
tle bit me in the middle of the back.
	 (14)	 Prior mention
A:	
Yeah, I do too uh because doesn’t make any difference uh uh whether it’s
a pistol or a shotgun, I suppose. They both do the same kind of job.
B:	 Shotgun hurts worse than a pistol does
	 Lexical subjects and the conflation strategy 29
The results of the coding for each group in the sample set are given in Table 3:
These re-
sults suggest that the vast majority of the lexical subjects (77%) fall into the first two cat-
egories, and therefore have discourse-new referents. As indicated, however, we do find
a relatively high percentage (25%) of lexical subjects which denote previously men-
tioned referents, as in (14). Why should a speaker resume lexical mention when pro-
nominal reference could be used instead?
	 One reason is ambiguity avoidance, as in (14), where both shotguns and pistols
are under discussion at the time of the relevant production, and lexical reference is thus
necessary for the coherence of the comparison. Another source of high anaphoricity
lexical mentions is a discourse strategy that Fox (1987) refers to as a return pop: rein-
statement of a reference following the intervention of some number of predications in
which that referent does not play a role. The exchange in (15) gives an example of a re-
turn pop:
	 (15)	 A:	
Do you have any children?
B:	
Yeah, I have two, two boys, twelve and sixteen.
A:	
Twelve and sixteen.
[Five turns intervene]
A:	
What, uh, do you feel like you have any time­
B:	
[Laughter]
A:	
to spend with them?
[Five turns intervene]
B:	
I have a kind of a fortunate situation, I think, right now with my sixteen
year old. Um, I work two nights a week at a, I’m a librarian
A:	
Oh, uh huh.
.  Due to rounding, percentages in this and later tables add up to slightly more than 100 per-
cent.
Table 3  Anaphoricity counts for lexical subjects
No prior
mention
Superset
mention
Prior
mention Totals
Definite determiner 22 12 5 39
Demonstrative determiner 9 7 23 39
Bare plural/mass nouns 24 3 11 38
Possessive determiner 28 6 5 39
Proper nouns 22 1 16 39
Quantified nouns 31 4 2 37
Indefinite determiner 21 12 4 37
Total 157 (60%) 45 (17%) 66 (25%) 268
30	 Laura Michaelis and Hartwell Francis
B:	
and I work two nights a week at the Senior High School library. They
keep it open, you know, for kids to do their work
A:	
Right.
B:	
and he, um, and then they, the school district hires an aide, you know, to
work
A:	
Sure.
→ B:	
for me. Well, my son is my aide.
A:	
Oh, well, that’s nice.
B:	
[Laughter] So, two nights a week for four hours we’re stuck together.
In (15), speaker B introduces her two sons, begins to talk about her 16-year-old son,
and then shifts to discussion of other referents (the library, the school administration,
the school district) in order to describe her evening work situation at the school li-
brary. At the indicated turn, she re-establishes reference to her older son by using the
full noun phrase my son in subject position in the predication My son is my aide.
Such
anaphoric lexical subjects are, however, relatively rare. As indicated in Table 3, the ma-
jority of the lexical subjects in the Switchboard corpus denote referents that are new to
the discourse. In the next subsection, we will ask whether lexical-subject predications
actually serve to establish their referents as topics.
3.3  The denotata of lexical subjects tend (weakly) to persist in the discourse
As established in the previous subsection, lexical subjects tend to denote discourse-new
referents. In this respect, they are unlike prototypical topics, which denote evoked ref-
erents. The possibility remains, however, that lexical subjects are switch topics, and
that predications containing them have a topic-establishing function similar to that of
English left dislocation, as described by Gregory and Michaelis (2001). An example of
left dislocation discussed by Gregory and Michaelis is given in (16):
	 (16)	 I like classical, but I can’t deal with opera at all. And heavy metal, uh, it’s noisy.
Using hand-coded data from the Switchboard corpus, Gregory and Michaelis (2001)
found that the preclausal NP in left dislocation (e.g., heavy metal in (16)) tends to de-
note a discourse-new and yet highly persistent referent, as compared to the preclaus-
al NP of topicalization, a superficially similar fronting construction. They found that
65% of the preclausal-NP referents in left dislocation tokens persist in the following
discourse, while the same was true of only 28% of the preclausal-NP denotata in topi-
calization tokens. They found a comparable, although inverted, asymmetry with regard
to the anaphoricity scores of the preclausal NPs in the two constructions: only 38% of
the denotata of the preclausal NPs in left dislocation were found to be anaphoric, while
.  To facilitate exposition, we have chosen to ignore the pronominal mention in B’s false start
and he, um, and then they, the school district hires an aide.
	 Lexical subjects and the conflation strategy 31
75% of those in topicalicalization were found to be anaphoric. By combining these two
tendencies, they showed that left dislocation, owing to its low anaphoricity and high
topic-persistence indices, is appropriately viewed as a topic-establishing device.
	 If lexical-subject predications are, functionally speaking, ‘compressed’ instances of
left dislocation, we would expect that their subject referents would have topic-persist-
ence scores equal to those of the preclausal-NP denotata in left-dislocation tokens. In
order to determine whether this was in fact the case, we used a measure of topic persist-
ence to code a sample of lexical-subject predications. The composition of this sample
was identical to that used for anaphoricity coding, as described in subsection 3.2 above.
Topic persistence, according to Givón (1984: 908), is “the number of times the refer-
ent persists as an argument in the subsequent ten clauses following the current clause”.
Because we wished to track only lexical-subject denotata and not argument denota-
ta in general, the notion of topic persistence that we used was narrower than Givón’s:
we examined topic persistence as a property of only those referents that were initially
introduced in canonical topic position. Further, because we were interested only in
whether an entity appears again as a topic argument in subsequent utterances, and not
in how long that entity persists as a topic, we used a scale with only four possible val-
ues: no persistence, lexical persistence, subset persistence and pronominal
persistence. This scale has one more category than that used for anaphoricity coding,
as shown in Table 3: it contains an additional type of coreference link, lexical persist-
ence. We added this category in order to determine whether lexical-subject predica-
tions might be defective topic proffers, requiring secondary introduction of the subject-
denotatum in a subsequent turn. The passages in (17)–(20) give examples of each of the
respective values on the topic-persistence scale.
	 (17)	 No persistence
A:	
And then the power went off again. Lightning or something knocked it
out, and we hooked it back up and now it’s running ten or fifteen minutes
fast again but on the east side of the house it runs fine
B:	 Um. Oh boy, you do have a strange wiring problem there.
	 (18)	 Lexical persistence
W[ell], I had a friend who sat in on a or who was on a jury recently for a mur-
der, but the man was not being tried for capital murder and so that was not
even an option uh. The death penalty was not an option so and in in this case
everyone on the jury felt that it should have been and they were very con-
vinced the man had no redeeming uh qualities and couldn’t be rehabilitated.
	 (19)	 Subset persistence
B: Yeah I—I just have a scroll saw and a jig saw and I am really anxious to get
a band saw and a router
A: Yeah. The band saw’s really nice I have an Inca. I don’t know if you’ve ever
heard of those.
32	 Laura Michaelis and Hartwell Francis
	 (20)	 Pronominal persistence
My dog was from the shelter and the idea was to get a Shepherd-Lab mix
and he turned out to be about half that um h[e]—I just couldn’t resist him at
the uh he was well he was at least eighteen when he died because he was full
grown when I got him.
The results of the topic-persistence coding for the sample are summarized in Table 4. As
shown, a lexical-subject denotatum is slightly more likely to persist than not to persist:
51% of the lexical-subject denotata in the sample persisted in some fashion. This is not
a strong tendency, and it is clearly weaker than the comparable tendency among left-
dislocation tokens described by Gregory and Michaelis 2001.
	 However, it is important to ask whether lexical denotata in general, be they subjects
or preclausal NPs, persist to the same extent that pronominal denotata do. In order to
answer this question, we coded a stratified, random sample of 30 nondeictic pronom-
inal subjects for topic persistence. This sample was composed of five categories, each of
which contained six tokens: the masculine singular pronoun he, the feminine singular
pronoun she, the inanimate singular pronoun it, the plural pronoun they, the distal de-
monstrative singular pronoun that and the distal demonstrative plural pronoun those.
(The proximal pronouns this and these were not used because of their strong associ-
ation with cataphoric constructions, e.g., This is what I think.) In order to control for
the position of the pronominal subject in an (actual or potential) anaphoric chain, we
coded only those pronominal subjects that immediately followed lexical mentions, that
is, with no prior pronominal mentions intervening between the target pronoun and the
most recent lexical mention. In addition, if the lexical reference before the target pro-
nominal subject reference was a lexical subject, the target pronominal subject would
be discarded in favor of another randomly selected token. In this way we ensured that
we were not comparing topic-persistence ratings from overlapping sets of data (lexical
subjects and pronominal subjects).
	 For the pronominal subject topic-persistence measure, we used a scale with five pos-
sible values: no persistence, lexical persistence, subset persistence, superset
Table 4.  Topic-persistence counts for lexical subjects
No
persistence
Lexical
persistence
Subset
persistence
Pronominal
persistence Total
Definite determiner 22 4 3 10 39
Demonstrative determiner 22 2 3 12 39
Bare plural/mass nouns 19 4 1 14 38
Possessive determiner 18 4 0 17 39
Proper nouns 19 4 2 13 38
Quantified nouns 15 2 6 14 37
Indefinite determiner 15 5 2 15 37
Total 130 (49%) 25 (9%) 17 (6%) 95 (36%) 267
	 Lexical subjects and the conflation strategy 33
persistence and pronominal persistence. This scale contains one more value than
does the scale used for lexical-subject topic persistence in Table 4, that of superset per-
sistence. We assigned this value to those discourse sequences in which the mention fol-
lowing the target pronominal subject denotes a set that includes the denotatum of the
target pronominal mention, as in (24) below. In this example, Speaker A uses the pro-
noun they to refer to her own goldfish, while speaker B uses that same pronoun to refer
to goldfish as a species. Examples of discourse sequences exemplifying each of the five
respective categories are given in (21)–(25) below. In these examples, the lexical men-
tion from which the target pronominal subject is traced is shown in bold, as are the tar-
get and subsequent mentions:
	 (21)	 No persistence: she → no subsequent mention
A:	
But, um, my, again, my mother back in Indiana, we had a quilting frame
in our basement, and she would—she would quilt whole quilts by herself.
B:	 Oh my god.
A:	
Um, yes, which I was always amazed. I have one of them, um, but, uh,
you know to have the quilting frame and then to actually do that—it’s a
tremendous amount of work.
	 (22)	 Lexical persistence: he → this guy
A, uh, fellow when he was much younger, uh, was tried and convicted and
sentenced to death. Fortunately, in his case, the death penalty was revoked
and, uh, so he served out his, his sentence until it was discovered by a fellow
who was making a documentary called The Thin Blue Line that this guy had
basically gotten railroaded through the judicial system.
	 (23)	 Subset persistence: they → the guy
A:	
Because I know, I know a couple of people here that work for, uh, the
Army.
B:	 Yeah. They civilians or, uh, military?
A:	 I think, I think they’re military. But I—
B:	 Uh huh
A:	 —mean, the guy is still in.
	 (24)	 Superset persistence: they → they
A:	
We still have lots of little goldfish. They propagate pretty well, those little
fish.
B:	 Yeah, they really do.
	 (25)	 Pronominal persistence: he → he
A:	
Several of the things you mentioned were the things that, uh, our son has
talked a lot about Texas A&M, but he thinks he wants to be a writer and I
don’t think that—
B:	 Well, then he should come to UT.
34	 Laura Michaelis and Hartwell Francis
As shown in Table 5, the denotata of pronominal subjects persist in 90% of the dis-
course segments coded for the sample. Thus, it appears that pronominal subjects are
far more likely to head anaphoric chains than are lexical subjects or left-dislocated lex-
ical NPs. This fact, however, need not be taken as evidence against the view that lexical
subject-encoding and left dislocation are topic-establishing strategies. As we have seen,
both lexical subjects and left-dislocated NPs have discourse-new referents. And, after
all, a topic proffer is still a topic proffer even when it is unsuccessful. Further, it simply
stands to reason that a large percentage of topic proffers would in fact be unsuccessful:
each potential topic referent might have many competing referents in a given conver-
sation. By contrast, pronominal subjects represent already established referents: these
referents are more likely to play a role in subsequent predications because established
referents, like plants that have taken root, are more likely to persevere than those which
have not. Thus, despite relatively weak persistence scores, lexical subjects are reason-
ably regarded as new topics. In the next section we will ask why new topics are not typ-
ically introduced by means of lexical-subject predications.
4.  Constraints on subject position
4.1  The principle of separation of reference and role
Many researchers have observed that subject position is pragmatically constrained. For
example, Prince (1992), using a small written corpus, finds that subjects tend to rep-
resent discourse-old information, whereas objects do not. Our results are consistent
with this finding. However, our focus is upon the constraint that underlies this ten-
dency, and upon the morphosyntactic form of productions that represent violations of
this constraint. In particular, we ask: what does this marked linguistic choice have to
do with other kinds of marked linguistic behaviors as described by Grice (1975) and
Horn (1984)?
	 The literature offers several candidate constraints. Chafe (1987) proposes that into-
nation units are aligned with information units in a one-to-one fashion. A corollary
Table 5.  Topic-persistence counts for pronominal subjects
No
persistence
Lexical
persistence
Subset
persistence
Superset
persistence
Pronominal
persistence Total
He 5 5
She 1 4 5
It 1 4 5
They 1 1 3 5
That 1 1 3 5
Those 1 1 1 2 5
Total 3 (10%) 1 (6%) 4 (13%) 1 (3%) 21 (70%) 30
	 Lexical subjects and the conflation strategy 35
of this constraint is described by Chafe as the “light starting-point” principle: subject
NPs do not constitute either intonation units or information units. Dubois (1987) pro-
poses both the Given A constraint referenced in Section 3.1 and an information-load
constraint similar to Chafe’s, whereby each predication can include at most one new ar-
gument. Lambrecht (1994) proposes the Principle of Separation of Reference and Role
(PSRR), which he states in the form of a maxim: “Do not introduce a referent and talk
about it in the same clause” (p. 185). For the model of markedness to be developed here,
we will adopt Lambrecht’s PSRR, because, unlike competing constraints, it relates sub-
ject properties to a theory of topic, provides a model of what constitutes cooperative re-
ferring behavior and predicts (correctly) that referent introduction is typically accom-
plished by two-clause sequences like that exemplified in (26):
	 (26)	 The, the procedure is utterly humiliating. You go in there with the doctor, he
makes you take off all your clothes.
In (26) a referent, the doctor, is introduced in an oblique position, after which it is re-
sumed pronominally as a subject. By means of this pattern, the two tasks, introducing
the referent and predicating a property of it, are performed by two different clauses.
Hearer burden is kept relatively low, as the hearer can open a file on a new referent prior
to entering a property there.
	 The PSRR accounts for the existence of Prince’s 1996 “conspiracy of syntactic con-
structions” which ensure pronominal expression of the subject role. These construc-
tions include inversion constructions in Italian and Spanish (Ocampo 1993), the
French presentational y a cleft (Lambrecht 1987b), subject-agreement morphology in
Chichewa (Bresnan and Mchombo 1987), and pleonastic detachment constructions
like English left dislocation (Prince 1981; Birner and Ward 1998; Ziv 1994; Gregory
and Michaelis 2001). All such constructions provide for the introduction of a referent
outside of the clause in which it serves as distinguished argument. These constructions
are thus the grammaticized analogs of the biclausal sequences for referent introduc-
tion exemplified in (26). The foregoing observations suggest that the PSRR has both
synchronic and diachronic validity: it not only motivates aspects of conversational be-
havior but also explains the etiology of specific grammatical constructions in terms of
recipient-design features. However, the fact that 9% of the subjects in declarative sen-
tences are lexical NPs, and that most of the denotata of these NPs are both topical and
discourse-new, indicates that the PSRR is a violable constraint.
4.2  Lexical subjects as PSRR violations
In light of the PSRR and similar constraints, passages like (27) pose a problem:
	 (27)	 Context: A conversation about daycare.
She sent him to kindergarten. As soon as he went there, the teacher took one
look at him and he threw up again.
36	 Laura Michaelis and Hartwell Francis
When discourse-new entities, e.g., the teacher, are used as clause topics, as in (27), we
presume, by the logic of the PSRR, that the hearer burden is increased. As in cases of
pragmatic accommodation described by Stalnaker (1974), the hearer must make infer-
ences about the speaker’s intentions in order to preserve the assumption that the speak-
er’s referring behavior is cooperative. Scrutiny of examples like (27) leads us to ask two
questions. First, what would drive a speaker to override the PSRR? Second, are viola-
tions of the PSRR constrained? We suggest that the lexical subjects in our data reflect
the speaker’s attempt to mediate a conflict between the two halves of the Gricean quan-
tity maxim. The use of a lexical subject, like deletion up to recoverability, as described
by Horn (1984), reduces speaker burden without compromising comprehension. The
mediation involves the interplay between two halves of the Gricean quantity maxim as
described by Horn:
	 (28)	 Quantity 1. Hearer-based lower bound on information
Say as much as you can.
	 (29)	 Quantity 2. Speaker-based upper bound on information
Say no more than you must.
The second half of the quantity maxim, which sets the upper bound on information
content, privileges the conflation strategy: it is more economical to convey in one clause
what might otherwise be conveyed in two. The first half of the quantity maxim, which
sets the lower bound on information content, prevents the speaker’s economy from
operating unchecked. This lower-bound constraint is similar to Clark and Haviland’s
(1977: 4) given–new contract, in which “the speaker tries, to the best of his ability,
to make the structure of his utterances congruent with his knowledge of the listener’s
mental world”. We propose that the introduction of discourse-new referents as topics
in subject position is motivated by the speaker’s economy, Q2, and constrained by the
speaker’s adherence to the hearer’s economy, Q1. Example (30) is indicative of the con-
strained nature of PSRR violations in the corpus:
	 (30)	 I have an opportunity to go to uh Paris, France uh with my friend in April.
She is–her family, you know, lives there.
The speaker’s economy motivates the use of a single clause to both introduce a new ref-
erent, her family, and predicate a property of that referent. However, the hearer-based
lower bound prevents the speaker from introducing an unrecoverable referent in sub-
ject position. Recoverability is facilitated in (30) by use of the pronominal possessive
determiner her, which links her family to an evoked discourse entity, my friend. The
morphosyntactic coding patterns in our data indicate that speakers who choose to
override the PSRR produce referents that are accessible and anchored. In the next sec-
tion we will look at definite determination, possessive determination, and pronominal-
subject relatives as measures of accessibility and anchoring.
	 Lexical subjects and the conflation strategy 37
5.  Morphosyntactic coding of lexical subjects
Tendencies in the morphosyntactic coding of the lexical NPs in subject as against ob-
ject position suggests that speakers who violate the PSRR choose referring expressions
which denote referents that are either accessible via the speech context or anchored
to referents that have already been evoked in the discourse. Table 6 provides an over-
view of the morphosyntactic properties of lexical subjects in the corpus data. It shows a
comparison of determination patterns in subject NPs versus object NPs.
	 In Table 6, the Undetermined category includes proper nouns, quantified plural NPs,
and bare plural and mass NPs. While proper nouns can be considered semantically
definite, in the sense that they pick out mutually identifiable referents, proper nouns
lack morphosyntactic determination, and were therefore placed in the Undetermined
group. Proper names account for about 8% of the subject tokens and about 2% of the
object tokens; this asymmetry is probably a consequence of the markedness of animate
object denotata (Aissen 2003). After quantified nominals, the largest percentage of to-
kens in the Undetermined group are bare nominals denoting types and unbounded
sets, as in (31)–(32), respectively:
	 (31)	 So glass has been recycled for a long time.
	 (32)	 Hopefully, the next generation it won’t even be an issue. I mean people will
just look at you as a person and not as a man or a woman.
With Fillmore at al. (forthcoming: Ch. 8), we assume that bare nominal arguments are
implicitly quantified, whether generically, as in (31), or partitively, as in (32). Thus, bare
nominals have referential properties similar to those of weak and strong quantified
nominals, e.g., a lot of glass, most people.
	 The Demonstrative article class contains both the (plural and singular) distal and
proximal demonstrative articles. The majority of proximal demonstratives in both sub-
ject and object position appear to be cataphoric, or referent-introducing, indefinite this,
as described by Gernsbacher and Shroyer (1989).
This use is exemplified for subjects
and objects by (33)–(34), respectively:
.  Anaphoric uses of the proximal demonstrative determiner are also found in subject position,
as in the following passage:
Table 6.  Distribution of determiners for lexical subjects vs. lexical objects
Indefinite
article
Definite
article Possessive Undetermined
Demonstrative
article
Subjects 65  (2%) 1,070 (37%) 724 (25%)   837 (30%) 171   (6%)
Objects 1,419 (29%) 784 (16%) 346   (7%) 1,547 (31%) 825 (17%)
38	 Laura Michaelis and Hartwell Francis
	 (33)	 I was getting my oil changed and I was sitting in the little lobby it’s one of
these you know five-minute change places and this guy comes storming into
the lobby there and he says um
	 (34)	 I see this guy in my building with some I think it’s like a Golden Retriever or
something like that.
Indefinite this is far more likely to occur in object position, as in (33), than in subject
position, as in (34). This asymmetry is in turn responsible for the much higher inci-
dence of demonstrative determiners among objects than among subjects.
	 For our purposes, the critical asymmetries are those which involve the incidence of
possessive and definite articles. These two groups of articles form a natural class, in that
both entail uniqueness and mutual identifiability of the NP’s denotatum. As shown in
Table 5, 62% of lexical subject NPs contain either a possessive or definite article, while
only 2% contain an indefinite article. This asymmetry is reversed in the case of lexic-
al objects: only 23% of lexical object NPs contain a possessive or definite article, while
a full 30% contain an indefinite article. Thus, morphosyntactic definiteness is not a
property of lexical NPs in general; it is specifically a property of lexical subjects. (The
same observation holds, ceteris paribus, for morphosyntactic indefiniteness and lexic-
al objects.) In the next two subsections, we will draw out the semantico-pragmatic im-
plications of these morphosyntactic facts. In Section 5.1 we will discuss grammatical
definiteness as an indicator of discourse accessibility. In Section 5.2 we will discuss the
anchoring function of pronominal possessives and object-trace relative clauses.
5.1  Accessibility
There are a number of measures of the activation statuses of referents, including scales
based upon familiarity (Prince 1981), identifiability (Lambrecht 1994) and gi-
venness (Gundel et al. 1993). We will focus here on the Givenness Hierarchy because
it closely relates forms to cognitive states. The size of our data set makes such a sys-
tem highly appealing, since it allows us to make inferences about the status of a refer-
ent from automatically searchable properties. The Givenness Hierarchy (Gundel et al.
1993) is based on the assumption that nominal encoding properties reflect the speak-
er’s assumptions about the salience of the denoted referent in the mind of the address-
ee. The cognitive-status descriptors which are arrayed along the scale are conceived as
necessary and sufficient conditions upon the use of each corresponding form of nom-
inal reference. The Givenness Hierarchy can be exemplified as follows. The origin of
 When I first started it was like I saw someone at a Halloween party. This lady was from
Turkey and she’d been belly dancing since she was four years old, you know.
In this passage, the demonstrative NP this lady refers to the individual introduced in the prior
predication, I saw someone at a Halloween party.
	 Lexical subjects and the conflation strategy 39
the scale is equated with the lowest degree of cognitive salience that a referent may be
presumed to have, type identifiable status. This status licenses the use of indefinite
referring expressions, which may denote either a specific referent or a nonspecific ref-
erent, as in (35a). The highest degree of cognitive salience, in focus status, licenses the
use of an unstressed pronominal expression, as in (35b). uniquely identifiable sta-
tus falls between these two extremes; it licenses the use of definite determination, as in
(35c). The definite determiner is used when the hearer can identify the referent on the
basis of the NP alone.
	 (35)	 a.	
You know, a, a, a sixty-two year old guy is less likely to be put on death
row from what I’ve seen.
b.	 He, he repairs it, gives it back to you, and takes your hundred dollars.
c.	
The, uh, Governor, you know, has been trying to decide whether he’s go-
ing to commute it or not.
Although the categories of the Givenness Hierarchy map to discrete attentional/memo-
rial states, the hierarchy is implicational, in the sense that the conditions which license
use of a particular referring form also license the use of any lower ranked form: “each
status entails (and is therefore included by) all lower statuses, but not vice versa” (Gun-
del et al. 1993: 276). An appropriate analogy comes from the set or cardinal numbers,
an ascending halfline from zero to infinity: although the numbers mark discrete points
on the scale, an assertion like I have three dollars entails that the speaker possesses all
smaller amounts of currency (e.g., it entails the assertion I have two dollars); it is also
upward compatible: it could be truthfully uttered if in fact I had five dollars, although,
via Quantity 2, such a statement is likely to mislead. By the same token, the indefin-
ite NP a lady can be used to implicate (via Quantity 2) a greater degree of cognitive
salience of the denoted referent than that required to license use of an indefinite NP.
For example, the NP a lady could denote a referent that is currently in focus, as when
a woman says of a suitor He knows how to treat a lady. In this instance, application of
Quantity 1 would lead to the inference of disjunct reference (the NP a lady does not re-
fer to the speaker). As in other instances of Gricean inference, only context will deter-
mine which of the two quantity-based inferences is applicable.
	 By allowing for inferentially based enrichments, the Givenness Hierarchy abandons
strict reliance on morphosyntactic form, and comes to resemble the Familiarity Scale,
as proposed by Prince 1981. Prince’s Familiarity Scale assigns labels to referential ex-
pressions based upon the relationship of the denoted entity to the discourse rather than
upon the form of the referring expression. Category assignments are intended to cap-
ture the source of referent activation, and Prince’s scale thereby provides information
that is not captured by the Givenness Hierarchy. For example, the Familiarity Scale cap-
tures two different means by which an NP-denotatum can achieve the discourse sta-
tus that licenses the use of the definite article: the bridging inference, in the sense of
Clark and Haviland (1977), and NP-internal information (Prince 1981: 237). Following
Prince, we will refer to NPs which trigger bridging inferences as frame ­inferrables.
40	 Laura Michaelis and Hartwell Francis
Frame inferrables include those NPs whose referents are identifiable by virtue of be-
longing to a semantic frame that is currently active. The passage in (36) provides an ex-
ample of this class:
	 (36)	 Uh, actually I lived over in Europe for a couple of years, I lived in Germany
and in Germany they don’t have the jury system. What they do is they have,
uh, three judges, basically. And you get up there and the prosecuting attor-
ney presents his evidence.
In (31), the NP the prosecuting attorney denotes an entity which, although new to the
discourse, is highly recoverable by virtue of its relationship to the previously evoked
frame, the litigation frame. Prince refers to those NPs which contain contextual links
as containing inferrables. Containing inferrables include both explicit and impli-
cit partitive NPs. An example of a lexical subject that is an implicit partitive is given in
(37):
	 (37)	 You know, the good ones do cost maybe sixty dollars a week.
The subject NP in (37) contains implicit reference to a previously evoked set—that of
daycare centers. In the present study, we made use of an expanded version of the con-
taining inferrable category which included demonstratively determined nominal ex-
pressions that denote members of previously evoked sets, as in (38):
	 (38)	 This school does, so uh it’s been interesting.
The predication in (38) follows a discussion of colleges that offer tuition breaks to chil-
dren of alumni; the subject denotatum is a member of this set. Another type of contain-
ing inferrable not explicitly recognized by Prince is that in which the bridge to uniquely
identifiable status is a deictic or anaphoric referent contained in the NP. We will refer
to containing inferrables of this type as anchored inferrables. Examples are given
in (39)–(40):
	 (39)	 But our neighbor decided he didn’t like cats and shot one of them.
	 (40)	 And at the same time, the budget he sent to Congress has tax and fee increas-
es.
In (39), as in the majority of the possessive determiner subject NPs, the referent is
linked to the discourse context through the use of a first-person possessive determiner.
In (40), the referent is linked to the discourse context through the use of an object rela-
tive clause, the subject of which is an active discourse entity.
	 Using the three classes of inferrables described above, as well as additional Familiar-
ity-based categories, we hand-coded our stratified sample of lexical subjects in order to
achieve a more detailed picture of activation status than that provided by form-based
givenness coding alone. We will first discuss the application of the Givenness Hierarchy
to the total set of lexical subjects, in which categorization was based solely on morpho-
	 Lexical subjects and the conflation strategy 41
syntactic form. We will then discuss the application of Familiarity-based coding to the
stratified sample.
	 The distribution of morphosyntactic forms in subject and object position suggests
that lexical subjects denote entities that are more accessible than those denoted by lex-
ical objects. Table 6 above summarizes the asymmetric distribution of morphologic-
al forms for lexical subjects and objects. In total, 62% of lexical subjects are at least
uniquely identifiable, compared to only 23% of the lexical objects. The contrast be-
tween subjects and objects with regard to type-identifiable status is also striking: only
2% of the subjects are potentially upper-bounded at type-identifiable status, as com-
pared to 29% of the objects. Based on the correlations between morphological form
and givenness status described above, we conclude that the referents of lexical subjects
are typically at least uniquely identifiable.
	 Table 7 summarizes the distribution of lexical NPs in the stratified sample accord-
ing to a modified version of the Familiarity scale. This scale includes the three classes of
inferrables discussed above, as well as Prince’s Familiarity classes evoked, situation-
ally evoked, unused, brand new, and brand new anchored. Examples of each of
these statuses are given in (41)–(45), respectively:
	 (41)	 My uh wife’s grandmother had Alzheimer’s and they were going to put her
into a a nursing home, and the nursing home made them come and take her
back because she was being a, a, you know, a, a nuisance.
	 (42)	 This country seems a little behind on that.
	 (43)	 They, they, they decided, you know, George Bush, who, who’s the main owner
of the Rangers, decided that, uh, they’d stay in Arlington.
	 (44)	 And this lady was going to work she came home and everything in her house
was total gone light fixtures everything and
	 (45)	 A friend of mine gave me a clock kit.
We further expanded the Familiarity scale by including two categories of referring ex-
pressions whose denotational properties come not from discourse context but rather
from the constructions in which each appears: predicative NPs (46a–b) and generic
NPs (47a–b):
	 (46)	 Predicative NPs
a.	 And all we do is metric stuff.
b.	 Sometimes, um, usually the reason I will turn it on is to hear the news.
	 (47)	 Generic NPs
a.	
Well, they are evidently. But um I mean ev[en]—evidently a normal cow
produces that much too.
b.	
People should be required to give a couple of years for the good of the
country.
42	 Laura Michaelis and Hartwell Francis
Predicative NPs are those NPs that are subjects of equative copular predications, and
are also possible postverbal NPs (as in, e.g., Metric stuff is all we do). Generic NPs are
those NPs that appear as arguments of predications which, typically by virtue of verbal
aspect, are construed as describing stable properties of the world rather than episodes
(Langacker 1996). Generic NPs have contingent or, equivalently, attributive reference;
that is, they allow conditional paraphrases of the following form: ‘Should you find an
instance of this type (e.g., normal cow), it will have the following property (e.g., pro-
ducing a certain amount of waste)’.
	 The results of the familiarity coding are compatible with those reported for deter-
miner type in Table 6. In that table, we saw that 62% of the lexical subjects contained
definite determiners, corresponding to uniquely identifiable status. In Table 7, we see
that 72% of the lexical subjects in the sample have either inferrable or evoked referents.
Two of the trends reported in Table 7 are ostensibly puzzling. The first such trend is the
relatively low percentage of anchored inferrables (12%). Given the fairly high percent-
age of lexical subjects whose heads denote kinship or social relationships (e.g., my sis‑
ter, my supervisor), one would expect a higher percentage of anchored inferrables in the
sample. However, the relatively low percentage of anchored inferrables is most likely
an artifact of the sampling method: because the vast majority of anchored inferrable
NPs contain possessive determiners, and because only 14% of the lexical subjects in the
sample contain possessive determiners, anchored inferrables will necessarily top out at
the 14% level in the sample.
	 The second such trend is the relatively high percentage of evoked referents. In light of
the fact that, as reported in Table 4, 60% of the lexical subjects have discourse-new ref-
erents, the fact that 24% of the lexical subjects in the sample have evoked referents may
Table 7  Familiarity status of lexical subjects
Anc Coi Ev Fra Gen Pred UnU BN SE BA Total
Def 2 6 6 15 2 6 2 0 0 0 39
Dem 0 3 24 5 1 0 0 2 4 0 39
Undet 0 0 10 11 16 1 0 0 0 0 38
Poss 24 0 5 9 0 0 0 1 0 0 39
Proper 0 0 15 15 1 0 3 0 3 0 37
Quant 1 4 2 13 9 8 0 0 0 0 37
Indef 5 4 1 5 13 5 0 3 0 1 37
Total 32
12%
17
6%
63
24%
73
27%
42
16%
20
8%
5
2%
6
2%
7
3%
1
0%
266
Note: In the left column,Def = definite NPs,Dem = demonstratively determined NPs,Undet = undeter-
mined NPs (plural or mass),Poss = possessively determined NPs,Proper = proper nouns,Quant = quan-
tified nouns,Indef = NPs containing the indefinite article.In the top row,Anc = anchored inferrable NPs,
Coi = containing inferrable NPs,Ev = evoked NPs,Fra = frame inferrables,Gen = generic NPs,Pred =
predicative NPs,UnU = unused NPs,BN = brand new NPs,SE = situationally evoked NPs,BA = brand
new anchored NPs
	 Lexical subjects and the conflation strategy 43
appear surprising. However, this percentage is approximately the same as that reported
for discourse-old referents in Table 4. As shown in that table, 25% of the lexical subjects
denote previously mentioned referents.
	 The high percentage of lexical subjects that have inferrable denotata makes sense in
light of the lower and upper bounds that constrain the use of lexical-subject denotata.
As Prince (1992: 305) observes, inferrable NPs, like a friend of mine in (45) represent
hearer-new referents, and therefore discourse-new referents. At the same time, as
Prince (ibid) points out, inferrable referents share properties with hearer-old and
discourse-old referents, in that they are linked to the linguistic or extralinguistic con-
text. Along these same lines, Givón (1983a: 10) suggests that the denotata of some nom-
inal expressions, such as kin terms, “are in the file permanently, and are thus always ac-
cessible to speakers/hearers as part of their generic firmament” (emphasis in original).
Lambrecht (1994: 114) similarly views inferrable status as the product of pragmatic ac-
commodation. He argues that the speaker exploits the potential for easy activation of
kin-term referent and “conveys a request to the hearer to act as if the referent of the NP
were already pragmatically available”. Birner and Ward (1998) take a stronger position
concerning the commonalities between hearer-old and discourse-old statuses. In their
analysis of word-order inversion, they claim that “inferrable elements and explicitly
evoked elements behave as a single class of discourse-old information for the purpose
of word order inversion” (1998: 178). In other words, inferrable NPs are ideal lexical
subjects: they have the accessible denotata that are prototypical of lexical subjects and
the discourse-new denotata that are prototypical of lexical NPs. In the next section, we
will focus on a specific class of inferrable NPs—anchored inferrables—and, in particu-
lar, asymmetries in the use of anchoring devices in subject versus object position.
5.2  Anchoring
In this section, we examine referents that are rendered recoverable by virtue of a link to
a discourse-active entity, in particular the speaker. According to the definition provid-
ed by Prince (1981: 236) says, “A discourse entity is anchored if the NP representing it
is linked by means of another NP or anchor properly contained in it to some other dis-
course entity.” We discuss two anchors here, possessive determiners and relative clauses.
As seen in Table 5 above, pronominal determiners like my and her are more frequently
associated with lexical subjects than with lexical objects. While 25% of lexical subjects
contain possessive determiners, only 7% of lexical objects do. Example (47) illustrates a
typical use of an anchored inferrable containing a deictic possessor:
	 (47)	 A:	 I’m a single mother. I have three children.
B:	 Oh, I see, uh huh.
A:	
So, uh, right now, we’re on, we get, you know, aid from the state at this
point because there’s no other way to do it. And my ex-husband just sort
of took off and doesn’t pay child support.
44	 Laura Michaelis and Hartwell Francis
In (47), the discourse-new denotatum of my ex-husband is anchored to the speaker
through her use of the possessive pronoun my. The frame is deictically established in
this case. We postulate that the high percentage of pronominally possessed subjects
reflects the speaker’s drive to ease referent recoverability. A similar pattern can be dis-
cerned in Table 8, which shows the distribution of object-trace and subject-trace rela-
tive clauses by grammatical function.
	 Object relativization occurs in 71% of the lexical subjects that are postmodified with
a relative clause. Why should this strong bias exist? As Fox and Thompson (1990) sug-
gest, this type of relative clause anchors the discourse-new referent to a discourse-ac-
tive frame, as in (48):
	 (48)	 Our friend, the President, right now, says no new taxes. We should and es-
pecially, if anything, be cutting taxes now because of the recession and at the
same time, the budget he sent to Congress has tax and fee increases, so uh I
know the politicians uh aren’t straightforward.
In (48), the pronominal reference to the President in the relative clause guides the hear-
er to relate the discourse-new referent of the budget to an entity in the context. By con-
trast, as shown in Table 8, the majority of the lexical objects that are postmodified by
relative clauses have subject-trace relative clauses, as in (49):
	 (49)	 We do oil well services. So, a lot of our clients are oil companies, big oil com-
panies, and they go out to, we have engineers who, uh, go out to the oil well,
to the client’s oil well, and work with a lot of heavy equipment and put tools
down the oil well and stuff.
In (49), the object nominal engineers is the subject of the relative clause. Its referent is
also discourse-new, and introduced as the direct object of have. Why shouldn’t the rela-
tive clause perform the same anchoring function that it does in (48)? The answer is that
there is no need to anchor the denotatum of engineers in (49): while (48) is a violation of
the PSRR, (49) is not. Thus, the use of an object relative is strongly indicated in the case
of a marked association between the topic role and discourse-new status. As we have
seen, patterns in the use of possessive determiners and relative-clause modifiers indi-
cate that the denotata of lexical subjects are bound by recoverability constraints that do
not constrain the denotata of lexical objects.
Table 8  Distribution of relative-clause types for lexical subjects and objects
Subject relativization Object relativization
Lexical subject 102 (29%) 244 (71%)
Lexical object 249 (60%) 164 (40%)
	 Lexical subjects and the conflation strategy 45
6.  Conclusion
The data presented in this study demonstrate that (a) mappings to subject position in
English conversation are constrained by the PSRR and (b) this constraint can be vi-
olated on the basis of Q2, the speaker’s economy. However, as a function of Q1, the
hearer’s economy, violations of the PSRR are relatively constrained: speakers who use
the conventionalized abbreviations that usage affords nonetheless work to ease the
processing burden on hearers. Speakers accomplish this through morphosyntactic
choice. Specifically, when violating the PSRR by the use of a lexical NP in subject pos-
ition, speakers tend to minimize the potential impact on processing by choosing lex-
ical NPs that are accessible via definite marking or that are anchored to the previous
discourse either by possessive personal pronouns or by object-trace relative clauses
with pronominal subjects. Thus, we conclude that lexical subjects in conversation-
al English are hybrids. As lexical NPs, they denote new referents. As subjects, they
denote recoverable referents. This hybrid character reflects what Horn (1984) has
shown to be the most fundamental dialectic underlying generalizations both about
inference and about linguistic choice.
References
Aissen, Judith. 2003. “Differential Object Marking: Iconicity vs. Economy.” Natural Language
and Linguistic Theory 21: 435–83.
Basilico, David. 1998. “Object Position and Predication Forms.” Natural Language and Linguis‑
tic Theory 16: 491–539.
Battistella, Edwin L. 1990. Markedness: The Evaluative Superstructure of Language. Albany: State
University of New York Press.
Birner, Betty J., and Ward, Gregory. 1998. Information Status and Noncanonical Word Order in
English. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Boersma, Paul. 1998. Functional Phonology. The Hague: Holland Academic Graphics.
Bresnan, Joan and Mchombo, Sam. 1987. “Topic, Pronoun and Agreement in Chichewa.” Lan‑
guage 63: 741–82.
Chafe, Wallace. 1987. “Cognitive Constraints on Information Flow.” In Coherence and Ground‑
ing in Discourse, R. Tomlin (ed), 21–51. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Clark, Herbert and Haviland, S. E. 1977. “Comprehension and the Given–New Contract.” In
Discourse Production and Comprehension, R. O. Freedle (ed), 1–40. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence
Erlbaum.
Du Bois, John. 1987. “The Discourse Basis of Ergativity.” Language 63: 805–55.
Fillmore, Charles J., Kay, Paul, Michaelis, Laura A. and Sag, Ivan A. Forthcoming. Construction
Grammar. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Fox, Barbara A. 1987. Discourse Structure and Anaphora: Written and Conversational English.
New York: Cambridge University Press.
Fox, Barbara and Thompson, Sandra A. 1990. “A Discourse Explanation of the Grammar of Rel-
ative Clauses in English Conversation.” Language 66: 297–316.
46	 Laura Michaelis and Hartwell Francis
Foley, William A. and Van Valin, Robert D. 1984. Functional Syntax and Universal Grammar.
New York: Cambridge University Press.
Francis, Hartwell S., Gregory, Michelle L., and Michaelis, Laura A. 1999. “Are Lexical Subjects
Deviant?” Proceedings of the Thirty-fifth Regional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistics So-
ciety, Volume 1, 85–97. Chicago: Chicago Linguistics Society.
Gernsbacher, Morton Ann and Shroyer, Suzanne. 1989. “The Cataphoric Use of the Indefinite
this in Spoken Narratives.” Memory and Cognition 17: 536–40.
Givón, Talmy. 1984. Syntax: A Functional Typological Introduction. Amsterdam: John Ben-
jamins.
Givón, Talmy. 1983a. “Topic Continuity in Discourse: An Introduction.” In Topic Continuity in
Discourse, T. Givón (ed), 4–41. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Givón, Talmy. 1983b. “Topic Continuity in Spoken English.” In Topic Continuity in Discourse,
T. Givón (ed), 343–63. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Godfrey J., E. Holliman and McDaniel, J. 1992. “SWITCHBOARD: Telephone Speech Corpus
for Research and Development.” Proceedings of ICASSP-92, San Francisco. 517–20.
Gregory, Michelle L. and Michaelis, Laura A. 2001. “Topicalization and Left-Dislocation: A
Functional Opposition Revisited.” Journal of Pragmatics 33: 1665–1706.
Grice, H. Paul. 1975. “Logic in Conversation.” In Syntax and Semantics, Volume 3: Speech Acts,
P. Cole and J. L. Morgan (eds), 41–58. New York: Academic Press.
Gundel, Jeanette K. 1988a. “Universals of Topic–Comment Structure.” In Studies in Syntactic
Typology, M. Hammond, E. Moravcsik and J. Wirth (eds), 209–39. Amsterdam: John Ben-
jamins.
Gundel, Jeanette K. 1988b. The Role of Topic and Comment in Linguistic Theory. New York: Gar-
land Publishing, Inc.
Gundel, Jeanette, Houlihan, Kathleen, and Sanders, Gerald A. 1988. “Markedness and Distri-
bution in Morphology and Syntax.” In Markedness, F. Eckman, E. Moravcsik and J. Wirth
(eds), 107–38. New York: Plenum Press.
Gundel, Jeanette K., Hedberg, Nancy, and Zacharski, Ron. 1993. “Cognitive Status and the Form
of Referring Expressions in Discourse.” Language 69: 274–307.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1970. “Language Structure and Language Function.” In New Horizons in Lin‑
guistics, J. Lyons (ed), 140–65. Baltimore: Penguin Books, Ltd.
Horn, Laurence R. 1984. “Toward a New Taxonomy for Pragmatic Inference: Q-Based and
R-Based Implicature.” In Meaning, Form and Use in Context: Linguistic Applications,
D. Schiffrin (ed), 11–42. Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press.
Ioup, Georgette. 1975. “Some Universals for Quantifier Scope.” In Syntax and Semantics 4,
J. Kimball (ed), 37–58. New York: Academic Press.
Jackendoff, Ray. 1972. Semantic Interpretation in Generative Grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Keenan, Edward and Comrie, Bernard. 1977. “Noun Phrase Accessibility and Universal Gram-
mar.” Linguistic Inquiry 8: 63–99.
Kuno, Susumo. 1972. “Functional-Sentence Perspective: A Case Study from Japanese and Eng-
lish.” Linguistic Inquiry 3: 269–320.
Kuno, Susumo. 1991. “Remarks on Quantifier Scope.” In Current English Linguistics in Japan,
H. Nakajima (ed), 261–87. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Kuroda, S.-Y. 1972. “The Categorical and the Thetic Judgment: Evidence from Japanese Syntax.”
Foundations of Language 9: 153–85.
	 Lexical subjects and the conflation strategy 47
Ladd, Robert. 1996. Intonational Phonology. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lambrecht, Knud. 1987.a “On the Status of SVO Sentences in French Discourse.” In Coherence
and Grounding in Discourse, R. Tomlin (ed), 217–61. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Lambrecht, Knud. 1987.b “Presentational Cleft Constructions in Spoken French.” In Clause
Combining in Grammar and Discourse, J. Haiman and S. A. Thompson (eds), 135–79.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Lambrecht, Knud. 1988. “There was a Farmer had a Dog: Syntactic Amalgams Revisited.” The
Proceedings of the Fourteenth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, ed. by
S. Axmaker, A. Jaisser and H. Singmaster, 319–39. Berkeley: BLS, Inc.
Lambrecht, Knud. 1994. Information Structure and Sentence Form: Topic, Focus, and the Mental
Representations of Discourse Referents. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lambrecht, Knud and Michaelis, Laura A. 1998. “Sentence Accent in Information Questions:
Default and Projection.” Linguistics and Philosophy 21: 477–544.
Langacker, Ronald W. 1996. “A Constraint on Progressive Generics.” In Conceptual Structure,
Discourse and Language, A. Goldberg (ed), 289–302. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Marcus, Mitchell, Santorini, Beatrice, and Marcinkiewicz, May Ann. 1993. “Building A Large
Annotated Corpus of English: The Penn Treebank.” Computational Linguistics 19: 313–30.
Mithun, Marianne. 1991. “The Role of Motivation in the Emergence of Grammatical Categories:
The Grammaticization of Subjects.” In Approaches to Grammaticalization, Volume 2, E. C.
Traugott and B. Heine (eds), 159–84. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Ocampo, Francisco. 1993. “The Introduction of New Referents in French and Spanish Dis-
course: One Constraint, Two Strategies.” In Linguistic Perspectives on the Romance Lan‑
guages, W. J. Ashby, M. Mithun, G. Perissinotto, and E. Raposo (eds), 351–62. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Prince, Ellen. 1981. “Toward a New Taxonomy for Given–New Information.” In Radical Prag‑
matics, P. Cole (ed), 223–55. New York: Academic Press.
Prince, Ellen. 1992. “The ZPG Letter: Subjects, Definiteness, and Information Status.” In Dis‑
course Description: Diverse Linguistic Analyses of a Fund-Raising Text, W. C. Mann and S. A.
Thompson (eds), 295–325. Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Raymond, William D. and Homer, Kristin. 1996. “The Interaction of Participant Role and Prag-
matic Function in the Selection of Question Form.” The Proceedings of the Twenty-Sec-
ond Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, ed. by J. Johnson, M. Juge and
J. Moxley, 316–27. Berkeley: BLS, Inc.
Roland, Douglas and Jurafsky, Daniel. 2002. “Verb Sense and Verb Subcategorization Probabil-
ities.” In The Lexical Basis of Sentence Processing: Formal, Computational and Experimental
Issues, S. Stevenson and P. Merlo (eds), 325–46. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Sapir, Edward. 1921. Language: An Introduction to the Study of Speech. New York: Harcourt,
Brace and Company.
Stalnaker, Robert. 1974. “Pragmatic Presuppositions.” In Semantics and Philosophy, M. K. Mu-
nitz and P. Unger (eds), 197–213. New York: New York University Press.
Thompson, Sandra A. and Hopper, Paul J. 2001. “Transitivity, Clause Structure, and Argument
Structure: Evidence from Conversation.” In Frequency and the Emergence of Linguistic
Structure, J. Bybee (ed), 28–60. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Vallduví, Enric. 1991. “The Role of Plasticity in the Association of Focus and Prominence.” Pro-
ceedings of the Eastern States Conference on Linguistics 7: 295–306.
Van Valin, Robert D. and Randy LaPolla. 1997. Syntax: Structure, meaning and function. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
48	 Laura Michaelis and Hartwell Francis
Walker, Marilyn A. and Prince, Ellen F. 1996. “A Bilateral Approach to Givenness: a Hear-
er-Status Algorithm and a Centering Algorithm.” In Reference and Referent Accessibility,
T. Fretheim and J. K. Gundel (eds), 291–306. Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Ziv, Yael. 1994. “Left and Right Dislocations: Discourse Functions and Anaphora.” Journal of
Pragmatics 22: 629–45.
chapter 3
The information structure of it-clefts,
wh-clefts and reverse wh-clefts in English*
Nancy Hedberg and Lorna Fadden
Simon Fraser University
1.  Introduction
In addition to expressing a proposition monoclausally as shown in (1), English per-
mits a proposition to be split into two clauses and expressed in three types of cleft sen-
tence, which we term ‘it-clefts’, ‘wh-clefts’ and ‘reverse wh-clefts’. An example of each
is shown in (2):
	 (1)	 People are going to be voting on the economy, come November of next year.
	 (2)	 a.	
It’s the economy that people are going to be voting on, come November
of next year.  (IT-CLEFT)
b.	
What people are going to be voting on, come November of next year, is
the economy.  (WH-CLEFT)
c.	
The economy is what people are going to be voting on, come November
of next year.  (REVERSE WH-CLEFT)
Following Hedberg (1988, 1990, 2000) we label the phrase ‘the economy’ as the ‘cleft-
ed constituent’ in all three cases, and the phrase ‘that people are going to be voting on,
come November of next year’ or ‘what people are going to be voting on, come Novem-
ber of next year’ as the ‘cleft clause’.
 
*  This chapter is a major revision of Hedberg (1988), which examined the discourse function
of it-clefts, wh-clefts and reverse wh-clefts in a corpus of natural examples drawn from video-
tapes and transcripts of the McLaughlin Group broadcast by the Public Broadcasting Service in
the United States during the years 1987–1988. For this chapter, we collected new data from epi-
sodes of the McLaughlin Group aired in 2001 and 2002. We changed our database because we
wanted more recent and currently relevant political discourse to discuss, and we wanted to use
transcripts that are available on-line. The two studies differ in that instrumental means are used
for the analysis of prosody in the current chapter, whereas the prosody of the clefts in the 1988
paper was based on the author’s intuitions. The major inspiration for this revision comes from
Jeanette Gundel, who was a close advisor in the writing up of Hedberg (1988).
	 We thank Juan Sosa for his help with the prosodic analysis of our cleft examples, and thank
Maite Taboada for criticism. This research was supported by a Discovery Park Research Grant
and a Small SSHRC Research Grant awarded to Nancy Hedberg and Juan Sosa by Simon Fraser
University.
50	 Nancy Hedberg and Lorna Fadden
	 Following Gundel and Fretheim (2004) and previous works by Gundel, we distin-
guish between referential and relational givenness in our treatment of information
structure, although the two are linked in that relationally given expressions in general
(i.e. topics) have to attain a certain level of referential givenness (i.e. cognitive status—
Gundel, Hedberg and Zacharski 1993), in order to function cognitively as ‘the peg on
which the message is hung’ (Halliday 1970).
A topic is further constrained pragmatic-
ally in that it must evoke a relevant question for the comment to make a contribution
‘about’.
	 With regard to referential givenness, we assume that all clefts function analogous-
ly to definite descriptions, in that the cleft clause is presupposed and hence must be
at least uniquely identifiable in cognitive status terms (cf. Hedberg 2000 for it-clefts),
while the clefted constituent presents an exhaustive element, a ‘kontrast’ in the terms of
Vallduví and Vilkuna (1998). These characteristics are at least part of what distinguish
clefts from non-cleft sentences.
	 Our main claim with regard to the difference between the three types of clefts is that
wh-clefts are more constrained in relational information structure than it-clefts or re-
verse wh-clefts. The initial element—the cleft clause—in a wh-cleft always presents the
topic of the sentence, and the clefted constituent always presents the focus, with the
comment being the identification of the variable in the topic with the focus. It-clefts
and reverse wh-clefts are freer in their relational information structure, with the ini-
tial clefted constituent presenting either the topic or the focus, and the subsequent cleft
clause presenting the focus or topic, respectively. We subsequently refer to these two
possibilities as ‘topic–comment’ or ‘comment–topic ’ clefts.We also claim that all-com-
ment clefts are possible.
	 We rely primarily on a spoken corpus of 98 clefts from spontaneous televised polit-
ical discussions, examining their discourse function in context and their prosody. We
supplement this corpus with examples from a previously collected corpus of the tele-
vised political discussion program, some constructed examples and examples from a
variety of written sources.
	 Although we claim that it-clefts and reverse wh-clefts are identical with regard to re-
lational information structure, they do differ in distribution. The initial clefted constit-
uent in an it-cleft is most likely to be a full NP while the initial clefted constituent in a
reverse wh-cleft is most likely to be an anaphoric demonstrative pronoun. Also, ques-
tion words can serve as the clefted constituent in it-clefts, but not in wh-clefts or reverse
wh-clefts; and verb phrases and adjective phrases can serve as the clefted constituent in
wh-clefts and reverse wh-clefts, but not in it-clefts (see Delin 1989 and Hedberg 1990
.  Gundel (1985, 1988) suggests that a topic must be familiar to the hearer in order to serve as
an address in memory to which the new information may be linked. In more recent work (e.g.
Gundel 1999b) she acknowledges the possibility that a topic may be merely referential if the
phrase expressing this topic is anchored to an activated element. Reinhart (1981) and Prince
(1985) present examples which they claim are referential indefinite topics.
	 It-clefts, wh-clefts and reverse wh-clefts in English 51
for discussion).We have only eight examples of it-clefts in our corpus compared to 65
examples of reverse wh-clefts, and thus concentrate primarily on the difference be-
tween the wh-clefts and reverse wh-clefts in the corpus discussion.
2.  Method for corpus study
2.1  Data collection
The data for the study were collected from 13 videotaped episodes of the McLaughlin
Group, a half-hour, weekly televised PBS program in which a host, John McLaughlin,
facilitates unscripted, spontaneous discussion on current political affairs with a panel
of prominent journalists, almost all of whom are speakers of American English. There
are significant advantages to deriving data from this particular source. First, transcripts
available on theWorld WideWeb make it convenient to examine lengthy contexts, and
second, sound recordings allow for prosodic examination of the data.
	 The episodes used in this study spanned from March 2001 to June 2002. From these
video recordings, 98 cleft samples were put onto a CDROM using a Marantz CD Re-
corder.
These samples were then converted from analog to wav format using Gold
Wave v.5.0. Pitch contour and primary and secondary stress were examined using Praat
v.4.2.07. and Pitchworks v.5.0.
	 Once collected, the cleft samples were sorted into one of three categories: it-cleft, wh-
cleft, and reverse wh-cleft. Table 1 shows the number of each cleft type.
Hedberg (1988) examined 343 clefts in the previous McLaughlin corpus, finding only
12(3%)it-clefts,apatternsimilartowhatweseehere.Howevershefound182(53%)wh-
clefts and 149 (44%) reverse wh-clefts, which is different from the pattern observed in
the current study where we have many more reverse wh-clefts.We have no explanation
for this difference, except to note that the sample size was larger in Hedberg (1988).
	 In the following subsections we explain how the data were coded and analysed,
and we provide examples of clefts with respect to their referential givenness structure
.  One wh-cleft and one reverse wh-cleft were discarded because they were incomplete. There
were two predicational th-clefts and one predicational it-cleft (cf. Hedberg 2000) in the data,
which we decided to not discuss in this chapter because we didn’t look for predicational wh-
clefts or reverse wh-clefts. All of the clefts that we analyze are specificational.
Table 1  Distribution of cleft types in McLaughlin data
Cleft type Number Percent
It-cleft 8 8%
Reverse wh-cleft 65 66%
Wh-cleft 25 26%
Total 98 100%
52	 Nancy Hedberg and Lorna Fadden
(­cognitive status), relational givenness structure (topic–comment or comment–topic
status), and prosody.
2.2  Labeling the data
2.2.1  Prosody
The first step in labelling our data was to identify the prosodic patterns in each sample.
We primarily coded stress, but supplemented this with intonation coding in the exam-
ples especially relevant to the discussion. The example in (3) shows how stress was la-
belled.
	 (3)	 Mr. 
Blankley: I think that kind of LEADERSHIP is exactly what we need. 	
[11/3/01]
Primary stress is indicated in upper case bold, secondary stress is indicated in lower
case bold italics, and other pitch accented words are indicated in regular lower case
bold.
	 The ToBI transcription system (Beckman and Ayers-Elam 1997) was used to label
intonation patterns when relevant. This system uses starred combinations of high and
low tones to indicate pitch accents and (H*, !H*, L*, L+H*, L*+H, H+!H*). !H* in-
dicates a downstepped high tone. There are two phrase accents (L- and H-) and two
boundary tones (H% and L%). A combination of a phrase accent followed by a bound-
ary tone indicates the direction of pitch movement at the end of an intonational phrase,
and a phrase accent alone indicates the end of an intermediate phrase. Examples (4)
and (5) illustrate this system of coding.
	 (4)	 Mr. O’Donnell: THAT’S what we lack in Africa now.
	 H* 	 !H* 	 !H* L−L%  [4/14/01]
	 (5)	 Mr. Blankley: They’re the ones who were pulling the
	 L+H* 	 !H* 	 H* L−
	 STRINGS with Yeltsin.
	 H*L− 	 L+H*L−L%  [10/19/01]
When intonation is especially relevant to the following discussion, we will supplement
the ToBI coding with pitch tracks to better illustrate how the example was pronounced.
2.2.2  Information structure
The second step in coding our data was to label the clefted constituents and cleft clauses
according to referential givenness structure and relational givenness structure.
	 For referential givenness we used ten categories derived loosely from the Givenness
Hierarchy categories of Gundel et al. 1993, and classified the two major constituents of
each cleft utterance as either directly having a certain cognitive status or as being in-
	 It-clefts, wh-clefts and reverse wh-clefts in English 53
ferrable from an element having one of the cognitive statuses.
We added the categories
‘cataphoric’ for constituents whose referents were not introduced until after the utter-
ance of the cleft was completed, and ‘question-word’ for wh-words that function to
express the quantificational ‘unknown’ portion of a wh-question. We divided the ten
categories into the two supercategories of ‘discourse old’ elements or ‘discourse new’
elements, following Prince (1992). The resulting coding system is shown in Table 2. For
example, the cleft clause in (6) was labelled ‘activated’ because the proposition that the
resources are going somewhere was immediately activated, whereas the cleft clause in
(7) was labelled ‘recently activated’ because the proposition that someone says this is
loose talk was activated many discourse turns away although in the same discussion.
	(6) 	Mr. McLaughlin: Don’t you think resources are really being redirected, for ex-
ample, into security and into counterterrorism? That’s where the resourc-
es are GOING. Those are going to be the economic winners. [10/26/01]
.  The cognitive statuses of Gundel et al. (1993) are arranged in a unidirectional entailment
hierarchy, e.g. everything that is activated is familiar, but not everything familiar is activated. In
the set of labels used here we labelled with the maximal obtaining status, so ‘familiar’, for ex-
ample, means ‘familiar but not activated.’ We use the label ‘informative’ for a presupposed prop-
osition that is unfamiliar to the listener, following Prince’s (1978) work on it-clefts. Hedberg
(2000) would label these presuppositions as ‘uniquely identifiable but not familiar’ in the terms
of Gundel et al. (1993). We also use the label ‘informative’ for the lowest cognitive statuses, ‘ref-
erential’ and ‘type identifiable.’ Note that our label ‘recently activated’ would be labeled ‘familiar
but not activated’ by Gundel et al. (1993) since the information is no longer in short-term mem-
ory. We also treat inferrable propositions as falling under the same broad category as the prop-
osition they are inferrable from, following Prince (1992) who treats NP referents inferrable from
activated referents as ‘discourse old’. We thus here differ from Gundel et al. (1993, 2001) who
treat NP referents and also cleft clauses as uniquely identifiable but not familiar when they are
only ‘indirectly’ related to their antecedent. We do this, first of all, because so many cleft prop-
ositions in our corpus are only indirectly related to antecedent propositions (see Table 4 below),
but especially because in this chapter we are trying to synthesize the work of Prince (1978, 1985)
and Gundel (1985, 1988) on it-clefts and wh-clefts.
Table 2  Referential givenness categories
Discourse Old Activated
Recently activated
Inferrable from activated situation
Inferrable from activated proposition
Inferrable from recently activated proposition
Discourse New Familiar
Inferrable from familiar proposition
Informative
Cataphoric
Question word
54	 Nancy Hedberg and Lorna Fadden
	
(7)	 Ms. Clift: … The administration is not going to be able to get away with this
one, declaring an American-born — a Brooklyn-born boy an enemy —
Mr. Barone: Well, he’s an adult.
Ms. 
Clift: — an adult — an enemy combatant, holding him indefinitely, with-
out legal representation, without any charges, where even the deputy sec-
retary of Defense, Paul Wolfowitz, has said this was nothing more than
loose talk. The administration is really going to have to come up with
some evidence here, or they’re going to have to let this guy go.
		 (39 turns)
Ms. 
Clift: Wolfowitz is an even bigger hawk than you are, Michael, and HE’s
the one who says this is loose talk. [6/14/02]
For relational givenness we labelled each cleft for the topic–comment status of its two
parts, distinguishing between discourse old and discourse new topics and comments,
by using lower case ‘t’ or ‘c’ for the former and upper case ‘T’ or ‘C’ for the latter.We also
allowed for the possibility that a cleft utterance be all comment. As will be discussed
further below, the primary criterion for determining topic versus comment classifica-
tion was that of prosody.We assumed that the primary stress of the cleft utterance falls
on the comment.We also relied on the criterion of determining what the utterance as a
whole seemed to be primarily ‘about’ in the extended context in which the example ap-
peared, specifying this portion of the cleft as the topic. Thirdly, relational givenness cor-
related approximately, but not entirely, with referential givenness in that in most, but
not all cases, the referentially more ‘given’ constituent in the cleft utterance ended up
being labelled the ‘topic.’
	 Thus, examples (4) and (7) above with primary stress on the clefted constituent of the
reverse wh-cleft were labelled comment–topic clefts, and examples (5) and (6) where
primary stress fell on the cleft clause of the reverse wh-cleft were labelled topic–com-
ment clefts.
	 One type of reverse wh-cleft that was difficult to classify relationally was labelled ‘tag’
due to the presence of a sentence final tag explicating the content of the subject. Many
such tag examples appear to be a kind of blend of a reverse wh-cleft with a comment
cleft clause in relation to the clefted constituent and a wh-cleft with a topical cleft clause
in relation to the stressed tag. An example is shown in (8). Tag clefts will be discussed
further in section 4.3.
	
(8)	 Mr. Blankley: That’s what I’m TOLD, that they got it from the SENATE side. 	
[10/19/01]
In the next section, we turn to the results of coding our corpus data for referential gi-
venness, syntactic type and relational givenness of the two major parts of the three
types of clefts. We are especially interested in which of these three coding criteria best
explains the data and the language system generating the data.
	 It-clefts, wh-clefts and reverse wh-clefts in English 55
3.  Corpus-study findings
3.1  Referential givenness
Table 3 shows the referential givenness coding of the clefted constituent for all three
types of clefts. It can be seen that that reverse wh-clefts and wh-clefts are almost mirror
images of each other. Roughly, when the clefted constituent is activated, the reverse wh-
cleft form occurs.When the clefted constituent is familiar or informative, the wh-cleft
form occurs.When the clefted constituent is recently activated, either form is chosen.
	 Table 4 shows the referential givenness coding of the cleft clause in all three types
of clefts. It can be seen that it-cleft clauses are evenly divided between discourse old
and discourse new information, while wh-cleft clauses are predominately discourse old
(88%). Reverse wh-cleft clauses are also predominately discourse old (71%) but not to
quite the same extent.
Table 3.  Referential givenness status of the clefted constituent
IT REV WH Total
Activated 3 58 − 61
Recently activated 1 4 2 7
Total discourse old 4 62 2 68
Familiar 2 − 7 9
Informative − − 16 16
Cataphoric − 3 − 3
WH 2 − − 2
Total discourse new 4 3 23 30
Grand total 8 65 25 98
Table 4.  Referential givenness status of the cleft clause
IT REV WH Total
Activated 1 3 − 4
Inferrable from activated situation − 10 4 14
Inferrable from activated proposition 1 19 11 31
Recently activated 1 7 4 22
Inferrable from recently activated
proposition
1 7 3 11
Total discourse old 4 46 22 72
Familiar 1 7 1 9
Inferrable from familiar proposition 3 4 1 8
Informative − 8 1 9
Total discourse new 4 19 3 26
Grand total 8 65 25 98
56	 Nancy Hedberg and Lorna Fadden
	 Although it is not entirely clear from the preceding two tables, which don’t compare
the referential givenness status of the clefted constituent compared to the cleft clause in
each cleft directly due to the need for readability, a constraint on constituent order in
terms of referential givenness can be extracted from the full set of data if we allow infer-
rable or indirectly anaphoric cleft clause information to count as (at least) one level less
given than the corresponding directly anaphoric information. This constraint is that
referentially more given information (e.g. activated information) tends to precede ref-
erentially newer information (e.g. inferrable from activated information).
	 An exception to this constraint is the cataphoric reverse wh-clefted constituents,
which we classified as discourse new, but which precede more given cleft clauses. Since
these clefted constituents are proximal demonstrative pronouns and are thus one word
pronominal forms, perhaps it is this syntactic ‘lightness’ that best accounts for the word
order pattern found in the data. In the next section we explore this possibility more
carefully.
3.2  Syntactic type of clefted constituent
Table 5 shows the syntactic type of the clefted constituent in all three types of cleft. It
can be seen that except for full NP clefted constituents, reverse wh-clefts and canoni-
cal wh-clefts are again in complementary distribution. Reverse wh-clefted constituents
tend to be short and anaphoric or cataphoric, whereas canonical wh-clefted constitu-
ents tend to be longer verb phrase and clausal constituents. The it-clefts in our data ei-
ther had full NP or question word clefted constituents, both of which are also short.
	 A similar pattern of results has been found in other corpus studies. For example,
­
Delin (1989) found that 102 out of 160 spoken and written reverse wh-clefts had that as
the clefted constituent and 43 had this, while none had clauses or verb phrases. In addi-
tion, 52 out 162 wh-clefted constituents were clausal, 38 were VPs, and none were de-
monstrative pronouns. 158 out of 245 it-clefted constituents were NPs.
	 It should be noted that wh-clefts can always be flipped and turned into reverse wh-
clefts without degradation in grammaticality, although sometimes minor changes need
to be made such as adding a complementizer or changing the position of an adverb.
However, reverse wh-clefts with anaphoric pronominal clefted constituents can nev-
er be flipped without extreme awkwardness, unless the clefted constituent is highly
.  Thus ‘inferrable from activated proposition’ or ‘inferrable from activated situation’ would
count as (at least) one level less given than ‘activated’, and so on, with both being classified
as ‘discourse old’. This system follows Prince (1992) in treating entity-level ‘inferrables’ as ‘dis-
course old’ and also follows Hedberg (1990) in treating ‘indirectly activated’ cleft clauses in the
same general category as ‘activated’ ones. As mentioned in n. 4, Gundel et al. (1993, 2001) do not
follow this system for either NP or cleft clause referents, instead classifying the indirect referents
as only ‘uniquely identifiable’ (i.e. as discourse new). If the Gundel et al. system is followed, the
‘given’ before ‘new’ linear order for clefts of course falls out directly.
	 It-clefts, wh-clefts and reverse wh-clefts in English 57
stressed
(and some further minor changes are made in some cases). Compare (9b) and
(10b):
	 (9)	 a.	
Mr. 
Zuckerman: What I think you have to appreciate about this program
is that Pat does set the standard for CIVILITY. [5/24/02]
b.	
That Pat does set the standard for civility is what I think you have to ap-
preciate about this program.
	 (10)	 a.	
Mr. 
Blankley: It’s got to be standardized, and THAT’S what the Presi-
dent’s proposal will do. [10/26/01]
b.	
??
It’s got to be standardized and what the President’s proposal will do is
that.
The actual pattern of results found in the data between reverse wh-clefts and canonic-
al wh-clefts, then, could be attributed to a syntactic constraint that short constituents
should precede potentially long constituents. However, wh-clefts with relatively short
clefted constituents are grammatical and even occur in the data, as shown in (11), so
a short-before-long syntactic constraint does not account for the language system or
even the data.
	 (11)	 Mr. 
Zuckerman: So let me just say, what they resent more than anything else
is the success of AMERICA.
Furthermore, the reverse wh-clefts with cataphoric clefted constituents in the data can
easily be flipped, even though the final clefted constituent would be short. Compare
(12a) and (12b):
.  Note that this example is also fine if the clefted constituent is modified with just or exactly.
(We thank Maite Taboada for this observation.) We suggest that such focus particles contrib-
ute to the interpretation of the clefted constituent as a stressed focus, and that this explains the
improvement.
Table 5.  Syntactic type of the clefted constituent
IT REV WH Total
Question word 2 − − 2
Relative pronoun − 8 − 8
Personal pronoun − 4 − 4
that − 44 − 44
this − 3 − 3
Full NP 6 5 7 18
Adverb − 1 − 1
VP − − 6 6
Clause − − 11 11
Gerund − − 1 1
Total 8 65 25 98
58	 Nancy Hedberg and Lorna Fadden
	 (12)	 a.	
Mr. 
McLaughlin: THIS is what he is talking about. He’s talking about
bringing homeland security ABROAD. [5/24/02]
b.	
What he’s talking about is THIS. He’s talking about bringing homeland
security abroad.
In the following subsection we will examine the relational givenness status of the dif-
ferent parts of each type of cleft exhibited in the corpus data and relate these to the ref-
erential givenness status, and in the remainder of the chapter will argue that relational
information structure explains several aspects of the distribution of the three types of
clefts. Specifically we will argue that wh-clefts are exclusively topic–comment struc-
tures, whereas reverse wh-clefts and it-clefts can be either topic–comment or com-
ment–topic structures.
3.3  Relational givenness
Table 6 presents the results of the relational givenness coding of the data in the corpus.
Recall that lower case indicates discourse old information and capital letters indicate
discourse new information. Cataphoric elements were classified as discourse new.
	 Discourse-new final topics don’t occur in the data. This is predicted by the interac-
tion of the two principles formulated in Gundel (1988): the Given Before New Prin-
ciple (“State what is given before what is new in relation to it”), and the First Things
First Principle (“Provide the most important information first”). The Given Before
New Principle implies that topics should precede comments, all things being equal,
and the First Things First Principle implies that new topics and foci should come first
.  We ignore all-comment clefts here as we don’t have enough examples in our data to draw
firm conclusions.We would predict that wh-clefts can’t be all-comment (which goes against our
first coding of one example as discussed below) but that it-clefts and reverse wh-clefts can be all-
comment.We find evidence in our data only for the possiblity of all-comment interpretations of
it-clefts, not reverse wh-clefts.
Table 6.  Relational givenness structure
IT REV WH Total
tc 1 27 − 28
tC 1 16 23 40
Tc
TC
−
−
1
−
−
1
  1
  1
ct 1 10 − 11
Ct 2 1 −   3
all C 3 − 1   4
tag − 10 − 10
Total 8 65 25 98
	 It-clefts, wh-clefts and reverse wh-clefts in English 59
since both are crucially important to how the message is understood. Thus, a new topic
before a comment (TC) follows both constraints and should thus be possible, or max-
imally optimal. Furthermore, tC and Ct (where the topic is activated or ‘given’) each
follow one constraint and thus are predicted to be possible, or relatively optimal. How-
ever, CT violates both constraints and is thus predicted to be impossible, or non-opti-
mal. We see the prediction followed in our data, that final topics are always discourse
old, thus supporting Gundel’s hypothesis concerning the interaction between the two
principles.
	 In our data, it-clefts exhibit the most variation. We illustrate the three major types
with a Ct, a tc and an all-C it-cleft in (13)–(15). In (13), primary stress falls on ACLU.
The clefted constituent was coded as ‘familiar’ and the cleft clause was coded as ‘inferra-
ble from a recently activated proposition’. The topic is more strongly activated than the
comment. The discussion was about United States authorities holding a terrorist sus-
pect for five weeks without legal representation and what type of public reception this
action would incur.
	 (13)	 Ms. 
Clift: And it’s not only the ACLU that’s going to be at the barricades on
this one, but conservative Republicans who don’t want the government
taking their guns are not going to like the way this case is handled, either.
[6/14/02]
In (14), primary stress falls on the cleft clause. In this case, immediate discussion was
about China’s forcing down an American military plane and detaining the people on
board. It had been suggested several turns previously that the United States was behav-
ing in a Cold War fashion by flying such reconnaissance missions in the first place, and
Pat Buchanan was objecting to this statement. We coded the clefted constituent as ‘ac-
tivated’ and the cleft clause as ‘recently activated’. Again the topic is more strongly acti-
vated than the comment.
	 (14)	 Mr. 
Buchanan: It is the Communist Chinese who are behaving as a Cold War
POWER right now. [4/6/01]
We coded (15) as an ‘all-comment’ it-cleft because both parts of the cleft were familiar
but discourse new. Ms. Clift was talking to Pat Buchanan and reminding him of Presi-
dent Nixon’s actions in normalizing relations with China. If there is a topic expressed in
this utterance, it is Pat Buchanan himself, the referent of your.
	 (15)	 Ms. 
Clift: Well, I think it was your PRESIDENT, your past EMPLOYER, who
opened the door for us to China. [4/6/01]
Turning to reverse wh-clefts, we classified 44 (80%) of them as topic–comment clefts,
as opposed to 11 (20%) as comment–topic reverse wh-clefts. This pattern is similar to
the findings of Hedberg (1988) who also found more topic–comment reverse wh-clefts
(66% as opposed to 34%). Both findings verify the claim made in Heycock and Kroch
2002 that in reverse wh-clefts, the clefted constituent typically expresses the topic and
60	 Nancy Hedberg and Lorna Fadden
the cleft clause the focus, whereas in canonical wh-clefts, the clefted constituent neces-
sarily expresses the focus.
	 Topic–comment as opposed to comment–topic reverse wh-clefts were illustrated
above in (6) and (10). In (6), both parts of the reverse wh-cleft are activated, but we per-
ceived primary stress to fall on the cleft clause, so we coded it as a topic–comment re-
verse wh-cleft. In (10), we classified the clefted constituent as ‘activated’ since it referred
to the state-of-affairs introduced by the immediately preceding clause, and we classi-
fied the cleft clause as ‘inferrable from an activated proposition’ since the president’s
proposal to privatize the airline security system had been discussed, and it can be in-
ferred that this proposal will do something. In this case primary stress fell on the clefted
constituent even though it was more strongly activated than the cleft clause. We there-
fore classified this as a ct cleft.
	 Furthermore, in (12), the clefted constituent is cataphoric and its referent is thus new
to the discourse, while the cleft clause is inferrable from the speech situation in which
Sam Nunn talking was just played on videotape. Primary stress falls on the clefted con-
stituent, which is less activated than the cleft clause, and we classified this example
as Ct.
	 There were five examples of reverse wh-clefts with informative relative clauses. One
example is shown in (16):
	 (16)	 Mr. 
Blankley: … I agree it’s going to be a fight, because we heard Senator Das-
chle say another silly statement, he’d rather invest in Social Security than
Nasdaq. Over any relevant period of time, that’s idiocy, because the Nas-
daq’s gone up in the past, it’ll go up in the future. He’s just trying to key
into the news cycle, which is what the Democrats are going to try to do
while the markets aren’t doing well. Over any long period of time, the
stock market goes up well, over the history of the country, and that’s why
privatization makes SENSE. [5/4/01]
Here the discussion was about privatizing Social Security, and Mr. Blankley was voic-
ing for the first time his opinion that privatization makes sense for the reason that he
articulates.
	 The possibility of a cleft presupposition being informative was first introduced in
Prince (1978) for it-clefts. Her most famous example is shown in (17):
	 (17)	 ## It was just about 50 years ago that Henry Ford gave us the weekend. On
September 25, 1926, in a somewhat shocking move for that time, he decided
to establish a 40-hour work week, giving his employees two days off instead of
one. [Philadelphia Bulletin, 1/3/76, p. 3L]
The double crosshatch indicates that the example occurred at the beginning of the art-
icle. She concludes that the presupposition ‘that Henry Ford gave us the weekend (at
some time)’ is presented as new information to (most) readers, although a known fact
	 It-clefts, wh-clefts and reverse wh-clefts in English 61
historically. A similar explanation can be inferred from Mr. Blankley’s reverse wh-cleft
in (16): he is trying to establish that his opinion has a basis in fact, which is why he uses
a cleft to express this presupposition. Prince denies the possibility of performing this
informative function to wh-cleft presuppositions, concluding instead that wh-clefts
mark the information as “assumed/assumable to be in the hearer’s consciousness, or
given” [p. 904].
	 Turning now to wh-clefts in our data, all but two of the wh-cleft examples were clas-
sified as having a ‘discourse-old’ cleft clause, in accordance with Prince’s (1978) conclu-
sion about wh-cleft presuppositions being ‘given’. (Note that the labels in Table 6 spec-
ify the linear order of the two parts of the different kinds of clefts, so that it is the cleft
clause whose status is reported first in the case of wh-clefts as opposed to the other two
kinds of cleft.) All of the wh-clefts had discourse-new final comments. A typical exam-
ple is shown in (18):
	 (18)	 Mr. 
McLaughlin: I think what he should be congratulated for is, under those
circumstances, it was an unerring PITCH. [11/3/01].
Here we classified the cleft clause as ‘inferrable from an activated proposition’ since
the participants were all approving of President Bush’s throwing out the first pitch in
a World Series baseball game soon after the terrorist attack on 9/11. We classified the
clefted constituent as ‘familiar’. The topic here is more activated than the comment.
	 There were quite a few cases of informative wh-clefted constituents as well, as in (19),
where ‘political coverage for officials’ is completely new to the participants and the cleft
clause had been recently activated.
	 (19)	 Ms. 
Clift: What these warnings have achieved is political coverage for OFFI-
CIALS. [11/3/01]
	 There was one example, shown in (20), in which we coded the cleft clause as familiar
but not activated:
	 (20)	 Mr. 
Zuckerman: What I think you have to appreciate about this program is
that Pat does set the standard for CIVILITY. [5/24/02]
Here the proposition ‘that you have to appreciate something about this program’ had
not yet come up during the discussion. It is interesting to speculate as to whether the
clausal content here should perhaps rather be classified as ‘inferrable from the dis-
course situation’—and thus discourse old and more-or-less classifiable as ‘in the hear-
er’s consciousness’ as Prince’s (1978) constraint on wh-cleft clauses would predict—or
as ‘familiar’ and thus ‘discourse new’ as we coded it.We suggest that the content of the
cleft clause is indeed discourse new but is a relevant new topic, and that it is this rela-
tional as opposed to referential givenness that licenses use of the wh-cleft here.
	 There was also one case of a wh-cleft that we classified as ‘all-comment’ since both
parts of the cleft were informative. This example is shown in (21):
62	 Nancy Hedberg and Lorna Fadden
	 (21)	 Mr. 
McLaughlin: All right, let me ask you this question.You know that the
president, President Bush, is preparing his own peace package proposal.
Do you know anything about the elements of that?
Ms. Clift: Well, what’s been leaked to the NewYork Times
Mr. McLaughlin: What do you know?
Ms. 
Clift: —is that he will favor—he favors a Palestinian STATE. [10/19/01],
Here, it is clearly referentially new information that something was leaked to the New
York Times as well as new information that President Bush favors a Palestinian state, so
we classified it as all comment. If topics need not be familiar (as suggested, but not ad-
vocated, in Gundel 1985), we can classify this example as a topic–comment cleft like
the other 24 examples. As a relevant new topic, we can then perhaps conclude that it
fits the requirement that the presupposition of a wh-cleft be appropriately in the hear-
er’s consciousness although not necessarily in fact already in that consciousness. In
other words the hearer can anticipate that this is an appropriate way to continue the
discourse.We can thus agree with Prince (1978) that the cleft clause in an it-cleft does
not need to meet the condition on wh-cleft clauses, and extend this conclusion to re-
verse wh-clefts.
	 We thus agree with Prince (1978) that wh-cleft clauses but not it-cleft clauses must
express given information, but disagree with her on which sense of givenness such
clauses must conform to. We claim that wh-cleft clauses are always relationally given,
i.e. topics; although we dispute that they need to be referentially given, i.e. activated, or
‘Chafe-given’ (Prince 1985). Thus, we believe that the distinction between referential
and relational givenness as articulated in Gundel and Fretheim (2004), as well as previ-
ous works by Gundel, is crucial to the analysis of clefts.
	 In the following section, we further argue that wh-clefts are always topic–comment
structures, unlike it-clefts and reverse wh-clefts which can be either topic–comment or
comment–topic (or all comment). We use examples from both the current McLaugh-
lin corpus and the previous one, as well as other attested and constructed examples.
4.  Evidence for the relational information structure of clefts
In this section we present a variety of arguments in favor of our hypothesis concerning
the relational information structure of cleft sentences. To review, this hypothesis is that
cleft sentences in English typically split the expression of a proposition into two parts,
one part representing the topic and one part representing the comment of the utter-
ance. The initial cleft clause in a wh-cleft always presents the topic of the utterance, with
the following clefted constituent always presenting the comment; whereas it-clefts and
reverse wh-clefts allow either mapping of cleft parts onto the two information structure
categories.We start with three arguments based on examples from our corpus studies,
follow these with two new arguments based on examples from outside the corpora and
	 It-clefts, wh-clefts and reverse wh-clefts in English 63
on constructed examples, and then close with an argument from the literature that re-
lies on linguistic intuitions associated with constructed examples.
4.1  Personal pronoun clefted constituents
There were four examples of reverse wh-clefts in the data with personal pronouns as
subjects.We analyzed all of these as topic–comment reverse wh-clefts. The clearest ex-
ample, shown in (22), is one with an unstressed pronominal it as subject. It is clear that
the main sentence stress falls at the end of the cleft clause in this example since the cleft-
ed constituent is completely unstressed. It is also clear that the utterance is ‘about’ coun-
tries expelling their own citizens. Furthermore, the presupposition of the cleft clause,
that the U.S. did something to their Japanese citizens duringWorld War II is familiar to
the listeners but has not been mentioned in the discourse. It thus can function easier as
a comment than a topic.
	 (22)	 Mr. 
Barone: … So I think that would be okay. I don’t think a country should
go expelling its own citizens
 …
Mr. 
Blankley: It is repugnant. However, it may be the wave of the future—not
just in Israel, but perhaps in Europe, as well. As long as theWest fears
Islamist terrorism, there will be advocates for removing every possible
suspect, the innocent along with the guilty.Whether it will ever become
government policy, I don’t know, but it will be argued more and more by
people who are more and more fearful.
Ms. Clift:	It’s what we did to the JAPANESE.	 [5/24/02]
Another example of a reverse wh-cleft with an unstressed pronominal subject was re-
ported in Hedberg (1988) and is shown in (23).
	 (23)	 Mr. 
McLaughlin: When will Dole exit the presidential race?
Mr. 
Kondracke: … I said he was going to be an inactive candidate, but still in
the race, and not declaring that it’s over, --not concede to George Bush—
 …
Mr. 
Germond: We’re saying—you weren’t in the real world in those days,
John, but it was what Ed MUSKIE did in 1972. He suspended his cam-
paign; remained a candidate for awhile.  [McLaughlin Group, 3/11/88]
Here again primary sentence stress appears on the cleft clause, the utterance is most
clearly ‘about’ candidates remaining in the race with an inactive campaign, and the pre-
supposition that Ed Muskie did something in 1972 is familiar but discourse new.
	 Hedberg (1988) also reports an example of a purportedly topic–comment reverse
wh-cleft with a stressed personal pronoun in subject position. This example, shown in
(24), was not videotaped, so the stress pattern was assigned purely on the basis of the
author’s intuition:
64	 Nancy Hedberg and Lorna Fadden
(24)	 Mr. 
McLaughlin:	 Number two, is it not true that Nancy Reagan is always
right? This is not a bash Reagan session. I just want to know whether or
not her instincts are invariably correct? I ask you.
Mr. 
Kondracke: No, they’re not. I mean she was the one who wanted to keep
Reagan from appearing anywhere in PUBLIC. That was—
Mr. 
McLaughlin: But she also has the concern about the man’s health. She—
he lived through an assassination attempt, remember that.	 [McLaugh-
lin Group, 3/6/87]
This example is especially interesting because the analysis of it as having a topic–com-
ment structure was disputed in Lambrecht (2001: 481–2). Lambrecht argues that the
clefted constituent in any kind of cleft always expresses the focus. He discusses exam-
ple (24) because it ‘raises analytical problems.’ He concedes that Mr. Kondracke’s reply
is ‘clearly ABOUT Nancy Reagan in the sense that it is meant to answer [Mr. McLaugh-
lin’s] request for information about the First Lady’ and that the aboutness relation can’t
be construed as going the other way around.
	 However, Lambrecht argues against the topic–comment analysis of (24) for two rea-
sons. First, he disputes the import of the prosodic analysis that assigns secondary stress
to the subject she and primary stress to public at the end of the cleft clause. Citing Ladd
(1996), he suggests that the relative prominence of the latter accent may be due to the
fact that the final accent in sentences with more than one accent tends to be the strongest.
Secondly, and for him more importantly, he says, “if the speaker had intended for the [re-
verse wh-cleft] proposition to be interpreted as a comment about Nancy Reagan, there
would have been no reason not to use the canonical version she wanted to keep Reagan
from appearing anywhere in PUBLIC. In this version, the predicate phrase would neces-
sarily be construed as attributing a hitherto unknown property to the subject referent.”
	 With regard to this second criticism, we would reply that Lambrecht has a different
definition of topic and focus (comment) from us. For him, topic is the complement of
‘predicate focus’ and is associated apparently exclusively with the subject of a simple
NP + VP clausal structure. He analyzes clefts as encoding ‘argument focus’ structures,
where narrow focus falls on a single argument of a proposition. He terms the com-
plement of the argument focus a ‘presupposition’ and doesn’t associate the function
of ‘topic’ per se with presuppositions, although presuppositions can be ‘topic-presup-
posed’. For us, however, the notion of topic is broader. Either a presupposition or the
complement of a presupposition can be a topic. Most importantly, contrary to Lambre-
cht’s assumption that the complement of a topic expresses a ‘hitherto unknown prop-
erty’, the reason a cleft is chosen in this example is precisely that the property attributed
to the topic, Nancy Reagan, is not new, but rather is presupposed—in this case, hearer
old but discourse new (Prince 1992).
	 With regard to the first criticism, we dispute Lambrecht’s conclusion. A final accent
in a sentence with more than one accent is not necessarily the strongest one. We per-
ceive the final accent in comment–topic reverse wh-clefts as weaker than the initial
	 It-clefts, wh-clefts and reverse wh-clefts in English 65
accent on the clefted constituent, and this relative weakness may even have a basis in
acoustic fact. Topic–comment reverse wh-clefts can be contrasted with this case. The
difference can be seen in pitch tracks derived from the utterance of (25), which we ana-
lyze as a topic–comment reverse wh-cleft, compared to the utterance of (26), which we
analyze as comment–topic reverse wh-cleft.
	 (25)	 Mr. 
McLaughlin: Exit: On a probability scale of zero to 10, zero meaning zero
probability, 10 meaning metaphysical certitude, rank the probability that
Osama bin Laden will go nuclear. That includes two presumptions: One,
that he has the bomb, and two, that he will use the bomb. Zero to 10.
Mr. 
Lowry: I think it’s a two. It’s very likely that we’ll kill him before he gets
his hands on anything.
Mr. 
McLaughlin: But you give it a two, not a one.
Mr. 
Lowry: You can’t totally rule it out. And a two is still a big threat, and we
have to take the precautions.
Mr. McLaughlin: That’s what I’m SAYING.	 [11/9/01]
	 (26)	 Mr. 
McLaughlin: All right. I want to go back to Nunn because his testimony
on March the 7th was unexcelled. Nunn—no question about it—and Lu-
gar are the most authoritative figures in this area. Listen to Nunn. Small
point.
SamNunn (co-chairman and CEO, Nuclear Threat Initiative): (From video-
tape.) In protecting America from nuclear terrorism, an ounce of preven-
tion is worth a megaton of consequence management.
Mr. 
McLaughlin: THIS is what he’s talking about. He’s talking about bringing
homeland security abroad. That’s where it has to go. And it has to go to
Russia because Russia is the terrorist’s gold mine . . .  [5/24/02]
The pitch track of (25) is shown in Figure 1 and the pitch track of (26) is shown in Fig-
ure 2. It can be seen that the final pitch accent in Figure 1 on the cleft clause is higher
Figure 1.  That’s what I’m SAYING
	 L*	 H*L−L%
66	 Nancy Hedberg and Lorna Fadden
than the pitch accent on the pitch accent on the subject demonstrative pronoun, where-
as the opposite pattern appears in Figure 2. This difference in relative height correlates
with the perceived difference in prominence, although it is perfectly possible for a final
accent which is lower than an initial accent to be perceived as the most prominent.We
thus dispute Lambrecht’s claim that the final pitch accent in a reverse wh-cleft utter-
ance is always perceived as more prominent than an earlier one, and this leaves us free
to posit a distinction between topic–comment and comment–topic reverse wh-clefts.
4.2  Relative clause reverse wh-clefts
The relative pronoun (or deleted NP in older theories) has sometimes been argued to be
the topic of a relative clause, for example by Kuno (1972), Gundel (1974), and Bresnan
and Mchombo (1987). Gundel (1974) argues that relative clause extraction can take
place ‘asymmetrically’ out of conjunction structures such as that in (24a) for the same
reason that the topicalization and left dislocation can take place asymmetrically out of
conjunction structures in (24b) and (24c):
	 (27)	 a.	 The guitar which Jim saved $50 and bought was aYamaha.
b.	 This guitar I’ve sung folksongs and accompanied myself on all my life.
c.	 This guitar, I’ve sung folksongs and accompanied myself on it all my life.
In all three cases ‘the guitar’ is the topic of both conjuncts, thus motivating an exception
to the ‘Coordinate Structure Constraint’ of Ross (1967).
	 Since relative pronouns can occur as clefted constituents in reverse wh-clefts, it is
consistent with the above arguments to conclude that such reverse wh-clefts are topic–
comment clefts.We had eight in the McLaughlin Group data, of which two are shown
in (28) and (29).
.  This example comes from Ross (1967).
Figure 2.  THIS is what he’s talking about
	 H*	 !H*	 !H* L−L%
	 It-clefts, wh-clefts and reverse wh-clefts in English 67
	 (28)	 Ms. 
Clift:	So NASA does have the difficulty of balancing the incredible cost of
this, which is why I would TAKE Mr. Tito’s check. Good idea. [5/4/01]
	 (29)	 Mr. 
O’Donnell: He make almost no mistakes, and probably no mistakes since
September 11th, which is when the REAL campaign, both quiet and ac-
tive, was really going on. [11/10/01]
In both (28) and (29) the relative clause is intuitively ‘about’ the antecedent of the rela-
tive pronoun. And in (29), which has a noun phrase as antecedent, the ‘topic tests’ of
Gundel (1974) verify that the period of time since September 11th is the topic of the
relative clause. (The discourse is about the period of time during which the electoral
race for mayor of New York was most relevant.) For example, the speaker could have
stopped after his first clause in (29), and then continued as in (30a). He also could
have stopped after his first clause, and then answered another participant’s question in
(30bi) with (30bii).
	 (30)	 a.	
As for the period of time since September 11th, that is when the real cam-
paign, both quiet and active, was really going on.
b.	 i.	 What about the period of time since September 11th?
	 ii.	
That is when the real campaign, both quiet and active, was really go-
ing on.
The main sentence (clause) accent appears on the cleft clause in both (28) and (29),
which is what we would expect if the cleft clause is functioning as the comment in these
examples.
4.3  Right-dislocated clefted constituents
Left- and right-dislocated constituents are widely assumed to function as topics of the
utterances they appear in (Gundel 1974, 1985, 1988, Lambrecht 1994, inter alia). In our
data, there is one case of an apparent right-dislocated clefted constituent in a reverse
wh-cleft, shown in (31).
	 (31)	 Mr. 
Zuckerman: You’ve got to advance the argument. That’s why you’ve got
to give me a chance to talk. So let me just say, what they resent more than
anything else is the success of America.We are the success -
Mr. 
Buchanan: That’s not why they’re KILLING us, because we succeeded.
[5/24/02]
Gundel (1985) reports that right-dislocated constituents express activated topics, and
Lambrecht (1994) reports that right-dislocated constituents (‘antitopics’ in his terms)
must be accessible in the discourse context and unaccented. In (31) the ‘because’ clause
is coreferential with the subject demonstrative pronoun and is at least indirectly acti-
vated. It is not unaccented, however, but the accent is a secondary one.
68	 Nancy Hedberg and Lorna Fadden
	 Another example, from the earlier corpus, is shown in (32):
	 (32)	 Mr. Germond: The market reacted this week to—
Mr. Novak: Oh, it went up and it went down.
Mr. 
Germond: That’s what the market DOES, it goes up, it goes down.
[11/20/87]
	 However, there were several examples of reverse wh-clefts which on the surface look
like right-dislocation constructions, but upon examination of the context prove not to
be. One such example is shown in (33).
	 (33)	 Mr. 
McLaughlin: Did Hastert actually hear that it was weapons-grade an-
thrax?
Mr Blankley: That’s what I’m TOLD, that they got it from the SENATE side.
Mr. McLaughlin: Do you know whom he got it from?
Mr. Blankley: I don’t know who it was, but I have to —
Mr. McLaughlin: 	 What senator was putting out that story?  [10/20/01]
Here, the right-attached clause is not coreferential with any proposition actually acti-
vated in the context and is not inferrable from any proposition in the context. It thus
does not have the characteristics of a right-dislocated constituent, and does not func-
tion as a topic. Instead it functions as a parenthetical second comment, further elabo-
rating on the activated proposition denoted by the demonstrative pronoun subject of
the reverse wh-cleft. The utterance as a whole seems to be a syntactic blend composed
of a reverse wh-cleft expressing the proposition ‘I’m told that Hastert actually heard it
was weapons-grade anthrax’ and a wh-cleft expressing the proposition ‘I’m told that
they got it from the Senate side.’
	 It is difficult to come to any conclusion about the topic–comment organization of a
reverse wh-cleft like this since the cleft clause seems to be simultaneously acting like
Figure 3.   That’s what I’m TOLD, that they got it from the SENATE side.
	 H*	 L+H* L*L−L%	 L+H* L−L%
	 It-clefts, wh-clefts and reverse wh-clefts in English 69
a comment relative to the previously established proposition and the topic relative to
the information in the right-attached tag.
	 A pitch track for (33) is shown in Figure 3. The demonstrative subject and the word
Senate in the tag are the words with the highest pitch, the latter perhaps in part because
it is contrastive (‘Senate’ as opposed to ‘House’). The word I’m is also contrastive, but
auditorily told seems to be the word with primary stress. The more clear right-disloca-
tion constructions in (31) and (32), however, do support the conclusion that the initial
clefted constituent, which is coreferential with the right-attached clause and is activat-
ed in the discourse context, is the topic of these reverse wh-clefts.
4.4  Also clefts
It-clefts have long been said to be associated with a uniqueness or exhaustiveness con-
dition on the clefted constituent, and this condition restricts the focus particles that
can modify them. Thus, Horn (1969) makes the claim that ‘clefting, like only, specifies
uniqueness, while even and also presuppose non-uniqueness and thus cannot be cleft-
ed. He gives the examples in (34).
	 (34)	 a.	 It’s only Muriel who voted for Hubert.
b.	 *It’s also Muriel who voted for Hubert.
c.	 *It’s even Muriel who voted for Hubert.
	 In arguing that an it-clefted constituent constitutes an ‘identificational focus’, É. Kiss
(1998) reiterates this claim, giving the judgments shown in (35):
	 (35)	 a.	 ?It was also John that Mary invited to her birthday party.
b.	 *It was even John that Mary invited to her birthday party.
She specifies (35a) with a question mark instead of an asterisk because she identifies a
context in which (35a) could be used appropriately. This context is shown in (36):
	 (36)	 A: Bill danced with Mary.
B: No, it was Sam that danced with Mary.
C: It was also John that danced with her.
É. Kiss says, “B identifies Sam as the member of the set present at the party who danced
with Mary, excluding the rest of the men. C adds John to the man identified by B, ex-
cluding everybody but Sam and John.” She says that “a cleft also-phrase appears to be
acceptable precisely in a context where it can be understood to identify a member of a
relevant set in addition to one or more members identified previously as such for which
the predicate holds, with the rest of the set still excluded.” Note that the cleft in (36C) is
a comment–topic cleft.
	 The claims of Horn and É. Kiss that also-clefts are impossible except in É. Kiss’s spe-
cial context are contradicted by examples of also-clefts, such as those in (37) and (38):
70	 Nancy Hedberg and Lorna Fadden
	 (37)	 It was the President, in a rare departure from the diplomacy of caution, who
initiated the successful Panama invasion. It was also Bush who came up with
the ideas of having an early, informal Malta summit with Gorbachev and a
second round of troop cuts in Europe after the fall of the Berlin wall. But it
was Baker who subtly turned the Malta summit from the informal, ‘putting
our fee up’ chat initially envisaged by the President into a platform for the
United States to demonstrate through a 16-point initiative that it was pre-
pared to help Gorbachev. [M. Dowd and T. L. Friedman, ‘The Fabulous Bush
and Baker Boys, The NewYork Times Magazine, 5/6/90, p. 64].
	 (38)	 Rough location work is nothing new for Sheen.When he was young, the fam-
ily travelled to location with his father, actor Martin Sheen. They spent 16
months in the Philippines. … Ten years later, Charlie Sheen found himself
back in the Philippines … as the star of … Platoon. … The terrain and envi-
ronmental elements … are very similar toVietnam, including 120 degree heat
by 8 a.m., blood-thirsty bugs and an impenetrable jungle. …
  It was also location work that gave Sheen his first acting break. He was nine
and his dad was filming The Execution of Private Slovik. …
[Jane Ammerson, ‘Intensity fuels Charlie Sheen’s On-screen Presence’, North-
west Airlines Magazine, July 1990, p. 69]
It-clefts such as these were analyzed in Hedberg (1990) as topic–comment clefts since it
clear that the main sentence stress would fall on the cleft clause (on acting) if they were
spoken aloud, and additional information ‘about’ the activated clefted constituent is
added by the cleft clause. The scope of also seems to be wider than just the clefted con-
stituent in these examples, e.g. applying to it was Bush instead of just Bush in (37). In
support of this hypothesis, the position of also can be changed to sentence-initial posi-
tion with a felicitous result.
	 The it-cleft in (38) can be paraphrased by a reverse wh-cleft as shown in (39a), but
not by a wh-cleft without awkwardness, as shown in (39b). This awkwardness seems
to be the same as the awkwardness associated with a wh-cleft with a distal demon-
strative clefted constituent. In both (39a) and (39b), primary stress must be placed on
­
acting.
	 (39)	 a.	 Location work was also what gave Sheen his first ACTING break.
b.	 
??
What gave Sheen his first ACTING break was also location work.
If primary stress is placed on the clefted constituent, an it-cleft or reverse wh-cleft can
only be used in É Kiss’s special context, and in the wh-cleft ungrammaticality results, or
at least a semantic clash between the exhaustivity contributed by the cleft construction
and the non-exhaustivity contributed by the additive particle also:
	 (40)	 a.	 ?
It was also LOCATION work that gave Sheen his first acting break.
	 It-clefts, wh-clefts and reverse wh-clefts in English 71
b.	 ?
LOCATION work was also what gave Sheen his first acting break.
c.	 
*What gave Sheen his first acting break was also LOCATION work.
Thus, we can conclude that clefted constituents can be modified by also only if the
­
clefted constituent represents the topic of the utterance, and that it-clefts and reverse
wh-clefts can readily be used in this way but wh-clefts are more resistant.
4.5  Vice-versa clefts
It-clefts and reverse wh-clefts but not wh-clefts can also be used in a type of cleft first
noticed in Ball and Prince 1978, which they termed ‘vice-versa clefts’. Two examples of
vice-versa it-clefts from Hedberg 1990 are shown in (41) and (42):
	 (41)	 Anna: So, what’s the case you’re working on?
Rob
ert: Nothing I need bother you with now. It’s you who called ME, remem-
ber? [General Hospital, ABC, 6/21/89]
	 (42)	 The photon gives up part of its energy to the electron, and the transaction is
observed as a slight decrease in the frequency (or increase in the wavelength)
of the radiation. Inverse Compton scattering is observed when a photon en-
counters a high-energy electron. Then it is the electron that loses energy to
the photon. [Scientific American, 8/77: 38, Borkin 1984]
Ball and Prince point out that such it-clefts constitute exceptions to the requirement
that the cleft clause be a presupposition. Instead these seem to be more like double
focus clefts, where the presupposition is, respectively, ‘someone called someone’ and
‘something loses energy to something’.
	 Ball and Prince point out that the presupposition of a wh-cleft cannot be suspended
in this way: See for example, (43):
	 (43)	 Anna: So, what’s the case you’re working on?
Robert: Nothing I need bother you with now. #The one who called me is you.
No matter what stress pattern is placed on the wh-cleft, a vice-versa reading is impos-
sible.
	 However, vice-versa reverse wh-clefts do exist, as shown in (44) and (45):
.  Topic–comment it-clefted constituents and reverse wh-clefted constituents can also be modi-
fied by even with primary stress on the cleft clause (and an appropriate context). Here, the con-
trast with wh-clefts is even more pronounced:
(i)	 It was even location work that gave Sheen his first ACTING break.
(ii)	 Location work was even what gave Sheen his first ACTING break.
(iii)	 *What gave Sheen his first ACTING break was even location work.
72	 Nancy Hedberg and Lorna Fadden
	 (44)	 “She was such a wonderful person,” the woman continued. “I know I
wouldn’t be here today if it weren’t for your mother, and everything she did
for me. I just can’t believe she’s gone. …
  A great lady? A wonderful person? Who on earth was this woman talking
about? Bonnie looked toward Rod, who was staring at the woman with be-
mused detachment.
  Lauren stood up, drew the woman into a close embrace.
  “I’m the one who should be comforting you,” the woman told her, pulling
back, wiping stubborn tears from her eyes.
“I’ll be all right,” Lauren assured her.
[Joy Fielding, Don’t Cry Now, p. 84, Random House Canada, 1995]
	 (45)	 “ … And face it, it doesn’t look as if my life will be normal any time soon.”
“Doesn’t look like it,” he agreed. “What’s your point?”
“My point is that unless you have a taste for the bizarre situation I’m not sure
you want to continue this walk with me.”
‘Well,” he drawled “I guess we’re even now.”
“Oh, how so?”
“This time you’re the one who’s ambushed me.”
The phrase vividly called up a picture of him in the doorway of his bedroom;
Laura could practically hear her own moans.
“I didn’t intend to ambush you,” she said, pressing her lips together. “I just
want you to know that there’s no obligation to get to know me well enough to
tell me dirty jokes.
[Antoinette Stockenberg, A Month At the Shore, p. 222, St. Martin’s Press,
2003.]
That primary stress falls on the cleft clause in such examples can be seen by the fact that
the author italicized the focus in the cleft clause in (45). We suggest that vice versa it-
clefts and reverse wh-clefts are actually topic–comment clefts with a contrastive topic
expressed in the clefted constituent, which is therefore highly stressed and a contrastive
focus expressed in the cleft clause, which therefore receives the primary sentence stress.
Vice-versa wh-clefts are not possible because the cleft clause is necessarily the topic in
that construction.
4.6  Anti-reconstruction effects
A final argument distinguishing it-clefts and reverse wh-clefts from wh-clefts derives
from Heycock and Kroch (2002). They applied the argument to wh-clefts and reverse
wh-clefts; we extend the argument to it-clefts. First of all, note that in simple sentences
such as those in (46), a full noun phrase (R-expression) cannot be co-referential with a
c-commanding pronoun. This is an illustration of Condition C of the Binding Theory
of Chomsky (1981).
	 It-clefts, wh-clefts and reverse wh-clefts in English 73
	 (46)	 a.	 He*i/j was proud of Johni.
b.	 He*i/j will scold Johni’s children.
c.	 He*i/j really missed Johni’s dog.
d.	 He*i/j had always claimed that Johni was innocent.
	 Heycock and Kroch note that wh-clefts exhibit ‘reconstruction’ effects with respect
to Condition C. That is, while the full noun phrase is not c-commanded by the pronoun
in the wh-clefts on the surface in (47), it still cannot be interpreted as coreferential
with it. The pronoun thus behaves as though it were ‘reconstructed’ into the position it
would inhabit in the unclefted sentence.
	 (47)	 a.	 What he*i/j was was proud of Johni.
b.	 What he*i/j will never do is scold Johni’s children.
c.	 What he*i/j really missed was Johni’s dog.
d.	 What he*i/j had always claimed was that Johni was innocent.
This phenomenon is an instance of ‘connectivity’ effects that have been observed for wh-
clefts sentences as well as other kinds of clefts and identificational sentences ever since
Higgins (1979) (for discussion and further examples, see Heycock and Kroch 2002).
	 What Heycock and Kroch (2002) point out, however, is that the connectivity effects
with respect to condition C in reverse wh-clefts differ from those in wh-clefts. In (48c)
and (48d), the pronoun can be coreferential with the full noun phrase.
	 (48)	 a.	 Proud of Johni was what he*i/j was.
b .	 Scold Johni’s children is what he*i/j will never do.
c.	 Johni’s dog was what hei/j really missed.
d.	 That Johni was innocent was what hei/j had always claimed.
In (48c,d), the full noun phrase is syntactically an accessible antecedent for the pro-
noun in the surface structure, and reconstruction does not appear to have taken place.
	 Heycock and Kroch point out that the pattern of results in (48) is duplicated by the
pattern of results in the verb-complement preposed constructions shown in (49). It is
possible to construe the pronouns in (49c,d) and not (49a,b) as coreferential with the
preceding full noun phrases.
	 (49)	 a.	 Proud of Johni, he*i/j was.
b.	 Scold Johni’s children he*i/j never will.
c.	 Johni’s dog, hei/j really missed.
d.	 That Johni was innocent, hei/j had always claimed.
.  Heycock and Kroch describe the antireconstruction effects as follows: “R-expressions buried
inside other referential expressions or inside CPs can be coreferential with a pronoun c-com-
manding the ‘gap’.” (p. 159). (48a) and (48b) don’t meet this description, as the R expression is
inside an AP or aVP in these examples.
74	 Nancy Hedberg and Lorna Fadden
Heycock and Kroch claim that information structure can explain these results. In the
preposing and reverse wh-cleft examples, the initial constituent can function as the top-
ic of the utterance, but in the wh-cleft the clefted constituent is necessarily the ­focus.
	 Heycock and Kroch point out that preposed arguments can function as preposed
topics (cf. the ‘topicalization’ of Prince 1986 and the ‘topic topicalization’ of Gundel
1974) or as preposed foci (cf. the ‘focus preposing’ of Prince 1986 and the ‘focus topi-
calization’ of Gundel 1974). They claim that the anti-reconstruction effects arise only
when the preposed constituent can be construed as the topic.
	 This argument is persuasive and has a functional basis in that it is reasonable to as-
sume that a pronoun in a focus expression can have as its antecedent a full noun phrase
in the associated topic expressions. Topics by definition constitute the element about
which the focus serves as the pragmatic predication, and thus are ‘prior’ to it in rela-
tional information structure and should be able to serve as antecedents. Conversely,
we wouldn’t expect to find pronouns in the topic depending for their reference on full
noun phrases in the focus.
	 Since we are exploring the information structure of it-clefts as well as wh-clefts and
reverse wh-clefts in this chapter, it is important for us to point out that the pattern of
results found by Heycock and Kroch in reverse wh-clefts is also found in it-clefts. Here,
however, the inability of the (a, b) examples to occur is independently explained by the
inability of adjective phrases and verb phrases to function as it-clefted constituents in
most dialects of English (see Delin 1989 and Hedberg 1990 for discussion). But if we
examine the counterparts of (48c, d) and (49c, d) we see that once again they allow
coreference, i.e. exhibit anti-reconstruction effects.
	 (50)	 a.	 
*It was proud of Johni that hei/j was.
b.	 
*It was scold Johni’s children that hei/j never will.
c.	 It was Johni’s dog that hei/j really missed.
d.	 It was (the fact) that Johni was innocent that he i/j had always claimed.
We can conclude, then, that based on anti-reconstruction effects the clefted constituent
in reverse wh-clefts and it-clefts but not wh-clefts can function as the topic of the ut-
terance. As mentioned above, Heycock and Kroch (2002) also conclude that the clefted
constituent in most reverse wh-clefts functions as the topic.We support this conclusion
in our corpus study.
5.  Conclusion
In this chapter we have argued that wh-clefts are associated with a single relational
givenness structure—topic–comment, while reverse wh-clefts and it-clefts are associ-
ated with two relational givenness structures—topic–comment or comment–topic (or
sometimes, all-comment).We first examined a corpus of naturally occurring examples
	 It-clefts, wh-clefts and reverse wh-clefts in English 75
of all three types of clefts and analysed the referential and relational givenness status of
the two major parts, finding that these examples support our hypothesis. We use pros-
ody as the primary cue to relational givenness structure, claiming that primary stress
falls on the relationally new comment, even though the comment may present activat-
ed (i.e. referentially given) material.
	 We then presented six arguments in support of our proposal, drawing on data from
the corpus, an earlier corpus, as well as other naturally occurring examples and con-
structed examples. We looked at reverse wh-clefts with personal pronominal clefted
constituents, relative clause reverse-wh clefts, right-dislocated reverse wh-clefted con-
stituents, reverse wh-clefts and it-clefted constituents modified by also or even, vice-
versa reverse-wh clefts and it-clefts, and at anti-reconstruction effects in reverse-wh-
clefts and it-clefts. In all cases, we found that wh-cleft cleft clauses behave like topics but
reverse wh-cleft or it-cleft cleft clauses behave either as topics or comments.
	 We leave it up to syntacticians and semanticists to explain why wh-cleft clauses are
necessarily topics while reverse wh-cleft and it-cleft clauses can be either topics or com-
ments. Perhaps it is because the wh-cleft subject as a sentential subject is preposed into
a topic position; whereas the subjects of the other two types of clefts are in a purely
subject position in spec-IP, whether base-generated there or moved from spec-VP (to
speak in terms of Principles and Parameters theory).Whatever the derivation, we sim-
ply claim that the two classes of clefts are different in terms of their pragmatic interpre-
tation.
References
Ball, Catherine N. and Prince, Ellen. 1978. “A note on stress and presupposition.” Linguistic In‑
quiry 8. 585.
Beckman, Mary and Elam, Gayle Ayers Guidelines for ToBI Labeling.Version 3. Ohio State Uni-
versity.
Borkin, Ann. 1984. Problems in Form and Function. Norwood, NJ: Ablex Publishing Corpora-
tion.
Bresnan, Joan and Mchombo, Sam A. 1987. “Topic, pronoun, and agreement in Chichewa.” Lan­
guage 63: 741–82.
Chomsky, Noam. 1981. Lectures on Government and Binding. Foris: Dordrecht.
Delin, J. L. 1989. Cleft Constructions in Discourse. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Edinburgh.
É. Kiss, Katalin. 1998. “Identificational focus versus informational focus.” Language 74. 245–73.
Gundel, Jeanette K. 1974. The role of topic and comment in linguistic theory. Ph.D. dissertation,
University of Texas at Austin. Re-issued 1988, in Jorge Hankamer, ed. Outstanding Disser-
tations in Linguistics, Garland Publishing Co.
Gundel, Jeanette K. 1985. “Shared knowledge and topicality.” Journal of Pragmatics, 9: 83–107.
Gundel, Jeanette K. 1988. “Universals of topic–comment structure.” In Studies in syntactic typ‑
ology, ed. By M. Hammond, E. Moravczik and J. Wirth. 209–39, Amsterdam:John Benja­
mins, 209–39.
76	 Nancy Hedberg and Lorna Fadden
Gundel, Jeanette K. 1999b. “Topic, focus and the grammar pragmatics interface.” In Proceed‑
ings of the 23rd Annual Penn Linguistics Colloquium, ed. by J. Alexander, N. Han and
M. Minnick. PennWorking Papers in Linguistics, vol. 6.1, pp. 185–200.
Gundel, Jeanette K. and Fretheim, Thorstein. 2004. “Topic and focus.” In The Handbook of Prag‑
matics, ed. By Laurence R. Horn and Gregory Ward. London:Blackwell.175–96.
Gundel, Jeanette K., Hedberg, Nancy, and Zacharski, Ron. 2001. “Definite descriptions and cog-
nitive status in English: Why accommodation is unnecessary.” English Language and Lin‑
guistics 5: 273–95.
Gundel, Jeanette K., Hedberg, Nancy, and Zacharski, Ron. 1993. “Cognitive status and the form
of referring expressions in discourse.” Language 69: 274–307.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1970. “Language structure and language function.” In New Horizons in Lin‑
guistics, ed. by John Lyons, 140–64. Harmondsworth, England: Penguin.
Hedberg, Nancy. 2000. “The referential status of clefts.” Language 76: 891–920.
Hedberg, Nancy. 1990. Discourse pragmatics and cleft sentences in English. Minneapolis, MN: 	
University of Minnesota dissertation.
Hedberg, Nancy. 1988. “The Discourse Function of Cleft Sentences in Spoken English.” Linguis‑
tic Society of America Meeting, Dec. 1988, New Orleans, Louisiana.
Heycock, Caroline and Kroch, Anthony. 2002. “Topic, Focus, and Syntactic Representations.”
WCCFL 21 Proceedings, ed. by L. Mikkelsen and C. Potts, pp. 141–65. Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Press.
Higgins, F. Roger. 1979. The Pseudo-Cleft Construction in English. NewYork: Garland.
Kuno, Susumo. 1972. The Structure of the Japanese Language. The MIT Press.
Horn, Laurence R. 1969. “A presuppositional analysis of only and even.” Proceedings of the Chi‑
cago Linguistics Society 5. 98–108.
Ladd, D. Robert. 1996. Intonational Phonology. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lambrecht, Knud. 1994. Information Structure and Sentence Form: Topic, focus, and the mental
representations of discourse referents. Cambridge University Press.
Lambrecht, Knud. 2001. “A framework for the analysis of cleft constructions.” Linguistics 39.
463–516.
Prince, Ellen F. 1978. “A comparison of wh-clefts and it-clefts in discourse.” Language 54. 883–
906.
Prince, Ellen F. 1985. “Fancy syntax and shared knowledge.” Journal of Pragmatics 9.1: 65–81.
Prince, Ellen F. 1986. “On the syntactic marking of presupposed open propositions.” Papers
from the Parassession on Pragmatics and Grammatical Theory, ed. by A. M. Farley, P. T. Far-
ley, and K.-E McCullough. Chicago: Chicago Lingusitic Society. 208–22.
Prince, Ellen F. 1992. “The ZPG letter: Subjects, definiteness and information status.” In Dis‑
course descriptions: Diverse analyses of a fund-raising text, ed. by S. Thompson and W. Mann.
Philadelphia/Amsterdam: John Benjamins. 295–325.
Reinhart, Tanya. 1981. “Pragmatics and linguistics. An analysis of sentence topics.” Philosophi‑
ca 	 27: 53–94.
Ross, John R. 1967. Constraints on Variables in Syntax. Ph.D. Dissertation, Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology.
Vallduví, Enric and Vilkuna, Maria. 1998. “On rheme and kontrast.” In The Limits of Syntax, ed.
by Culicover, Peter and Louise McNally. Syntax and Semantics 29. New York: Academic
Press, 79–108.
chapter 4
Epistemic would, open propositions,
and truncated clefts
Gregory Ward, Jeffrey P. Kaplan, and Betty J. Birner
Northwestern University/San Diego State University/
Northern Illinois University
1.  Introduction*
Previous work on epistemic modality has shown that epistemic would is unique among
English modals in terms of its epistemic properties and information structure. For ex-
ample, in Birner, Kaplan, and Ward (2001) and Ward, Birner, and Kaplan (2003), we
argue that the felicitous use of the epistemic would construction, illustrated in (1), re-
quires a salient open proposition (Prince 1986) in the context and marks the instantia-
tion of its variable as true and exhaustive:
	 (1)	 A:	 Who is the current governor of Illinois?
B:	 That would be Rod Blagojevich.
OP: 	The current governor of Illinois is X.
Here, Speaker B’s use of epistemic would instantiates the variable of the open propo-
sition (OP) with the focussed NP Rod Blagojevich, which the speaker marks as a true
and exhaustive instantiation of the variable. Speaker B’s use of the modal in (1) is ‘epis-
temic’ in the sense that it conveys an assessment of the truth of the proposition be-
ing expressed; in this case, it conveys the speaker’s level of confidence in the proposi-
tion that the current governor of Illinois is Blagojevich. (Following Nuyts 2001, we take
 
*  For assistance with database construction and coding, we thank Meredith Larson, Elisa Sneed,
and Kelley Wezner. We also thank Christine Brisson, Cleo Condoravdi, Mike Dickey, Bill Lach-
man, Meredith Larson, Dick Oehrle, Maribel Romero, Muffy Siegel, Elisa Sneed, Satoshi Tomi-
oka, and the members of the Fall 2000 Discourse Analysis class at Northern Illinois University
for helpful comments and discussion. Earlier versions of this chapter were presented at the Phil-
adelphia Semantics Society in September 2001, and at the ESSLLI Workshop on Conditional
and Unconditional Modality, in conjunction with the 15th European Summer School in Logic,
Language, and Information (ESSLLI03), held at the Vienna University of Technology in August
2003. We are indebted to the members of both audiences for many useful comments. Finally, a
special note of gratitude goes to Nancy Hedberg, for her comments on an earlier draft of this
chapter.
78	 Gregory Ward, Jeffrey P. Kaplan, and Betty J. Birner
epistemic modality to mark the speaker’s estimation of “the likelihood that (some as-
pect of) a certain state of affairs is/has been/will be true (or false) in the context of the
possible world under consideration” (2001: 21–2); see also Coates 1983.) Note that the
confidence level conveyed in (1) is higher than that conveyed by other epistemic mo-
dals. Consider, for example, the use of could, might, will, and must in (2a–d), respec-
tively, in response to a question about the identity of the current governor of Illinois:
	 (2)	 a.	 That could be Rod Blagojevich.
b.	 That might be Rod Blagojevich.
c.	 That will be Rod Blagojevich.
d.	 That must be Rod Blagojevich.
In previous work, we have argued that there are two distinct epistemic would construc-
tions, depending on the interpretation of the subject NP. The subject NP of the first type,
illustrated in (3), has anaphoric or deictic reference to some situationally or textually
evoked entity.
	 (3)	 A: 	 Who is Blagojevich?
B: 	 He would be the current governor of Illinois.
OP: 	Blagojevich is X.
Here, the referent of the subject NP has been evoked in the immediately preceding con-
text, and B’s utterance equates that referent with the current governor of Illinois. This
type of epistemic would can occur in either an equative sentence, as in (3), or a predica-
tive one, as in (4):
	 (4)	 A: 	 What party does Blagojevich belong to?
B: 	 He would be a Democrat.
OP: 	Blagojevich belongs to X party.
In both cases, we analyze this type of epistemic would as occurring in a simple copular
sentence.
	 The second type of epistemic would, which also requires an OP, was introduced in (1),
and is repeated below for convenience:
	 (5)	 A:	 Who is the current governor of Illinois?
B:	 That would be Rod Blagojevich.
OP: 	The current governor of Illinois is X.
.  The distinction we are drawing between equatives and predicatives corresponds to the iden-
tificational–predicational distinction of Hedberg 2000. The type of epistemic would con-
struction whose subject is coreferential with the variable of an OP corresponds to the type of
copular sentence that Higgins (1973) termed specificational, which Hedberg 2000 subsumes
under the identificational category.
	 Epistemic would, open propositions, and truncated clefts 79
We analyze this type of epistemic would as occurring in an equative sentence whose
subject (that) is coreferential with the variable in the OP.
	 In this chapter, we focus on this second type of epistemic would construction and
present a new analysis of its discourse and information structure properties. We show
that this kind of epistemic would shares a number of properties with that-cleft senten-
ces (Bolinger 1972; Jenkins 1975; Ball 1977, 1978; Wirth 1978; Hedberg 1990, 2000), il-
lustrated in (6):
	 (6)	 That would be Rod Blagojevich who’s the current governor of Illinois.
Specifically, we will show that 1) these cases of epistemic would are typically paraphras-
able as full clefts), 2) these cases permit an apparent number mismatch between subject
and verb that parallels a similar phenomenon for clefts, 3) they also involve a presup-
position of exhaustiveness comparable to that associated with cleft constructions, and
4) both that-clefts and this type of epistemic would are subject to the same systematic
ambiguity with respect to the interpretation of the subject demonstrative. Finally, we
compare the two epistemic uses of would with those of must and show that while these
modals both mark the speaker’s degree of commitment to the truth of the associated
proposition, they differ in a number of important ways.
2.  Previous accounts
Previous work on modality has failed both to recognize the role of open propositions
in the use of epistemic would and to accurately characterize its epistemic effect. Palmer
(1990) and Perkins (1983) both characterize this use of the modal as ‘tentative’, while
Coates (1983) claims that it expresses ‘predictability’. Sweetser (1982) analyses it as an
implicit conditional with a suppressed antecedent, in an attempt to unify epistemic
would with irrealis or conditional would. However, an examination of a corpus of natu-
rally-occurring data shows that none of these analyses can account for the full range of
uses of epistemic would; consider (7):
	 (7)	 A: 	 [holding a plastic bag with a fish in it.] I don’t know. Maybe it’s in shock.
B: 	 Looks dead to me.
C: 	 That would be one dead fish.
	 [conversation, WalMart Pet Dept.; token courtesy of M. Larson]
Here, there is nothing tentative, conditional, or predictable about C’s utterance.
	 In Birner, Kaplan, and Ward (2001) and Ward, Birner, and Kaplan (2003), we argue
that felicitous use of both epistemic would constructions requires that an open propos-
ition (in the sense of Prince 1986) be contextually salient. That is, epistemic would is a
focus/presupposition construction, serving to mark an open proposition as salient in
the discourse at the time of utterance. As we will demonstrate below, this is one feature
that distinguishes epistemic would from epistemic must.
80	 Gregory Ward, Jeffrey P. Kaplan, and Betty J. Birner
3.  Open propositions
An open proposition contains one or more underspecified elements, which can be rep-
resented as variables. The instantiation of a variable in an OP constitutes an utterance’s
focus, and is realized prosodically with a pitch accent. Prince (1986) defines a class of
syntactic constructions that serve to mark such an OP as shared knowledge in the dis-
course. For instance, consider the examples in (8):
	 (8) 	 a.	
I plan to discuss several topics. What I’ll discuss first is the notion of polit‑
ical correctness.
	 OP:   I’ll discuss X first (where X is a member of the set of topics).
b.	
[Discussing sweetbreads made for another woman] I made a lot of sweet-
breads. A couple of pounds I think I made for her.
	 OP: 
I think I made X sweetbreads for her (where X is a member of the
set of amounts).
In (8a), the first sentence (I plan to discuss several topics) makes salient the proposition
that I will discuss these topics in some order, and in particular that I will discuss some
topic first. Thus, the proposition ‘I’ll discuss X first’ is salient, where X is a variable rang-
ing over the set of topics. It is this salient OP that licenses the use of the wh-cleft in the
second sentence (What I’ll discuss first is the notion of political correctness). Similar-
ly, in (8b) the first sentence makes salient the notion that I made a certain amount of
sweetbreads; the salient OP ‘I think I made X sweetbreads for her’, where X is a variable
ranging over the set of amounts, then licenses the preposing in the second sentence (A
couple of pounds I think I made for her, as opposed to the canonical word order I think
I made a couple of pounds for her). Without an appropriate salient OP, the preposing
would be infelicitous, as in (9):
	 (9)	 My neighbor loves sweetbreads. #A couple of pounds I think I made for her.
Here, the prior sentence does not make salient the notion that the speaker has made a
certain amount of sweetbreads, and therefore the preposed variant is infelicitous.
Now consider the use of epistemic would in (1), repeated below in (10):
	 (10) 	 A:	 Who is the current governor of Illinois?
B:	 That would be Rod Blagojevich.
OP: 	The current governor of Illinois is X.
Here, the speaker instantiates the variable in the OP ‘The current governor of Illinois is
X’ with the value ‘Rod Blagojevich’, which represents the focus of the utterance. Such an
OP must be salient for the use of epistemic would to be felicitous. To see this, compare
the examples in (11a–b):
	 Epistemic would, open propositions, and truncated clefts 81
	 (11)	 a.	
Cage, however, is as serious as the leather motorcycle jacket and boots he
wears. Instead of buying $700 bottles of wine, he declares, he’s settling for
the $50 non-vintage and the case of wine Uncle Francis sends him every
year for the holidays. That would be Francis Ford Coppola, a vintner better
known as the director of “The Godfather” trilogy.
	 [Chicago Tribune article, “Cage enjoys a simpler life”, 6/20/02]
	 OP: 	 Cage’s uncle has identity X.
b.	
Cage is able to avoid paying wine prices of $700 and up per bottle be-
cause his uncle owns a vineyard in Southern California that produces a
number of excellent Cabernets and varietals, including some prize-win-
ners. #That would be Francis Ford Coppola, a vintner better known as the
director of “The Godfather” trilogy, who sends Cage a case of wine every
year for the holidays.
In (11a), the name ‘Uncle Francis’ licenses the OP ‘Cage’s uncle has identity X’, render-
ing the use of epistemic would felicitous. In (11b), where the uncle’s identity is not at is-
sue, the OP isn’t salient, and the use of epistemic would is infelicitous.
	 Notice, in comparison, that epistemic must does not require an OP for felicity:
	 (12)	 a.	 A:	 Couple of years ago I was thinking about moving to Massachusetts,
	 B: 	 Uh-huh.
	 A: 	 but, uh, boy I’m glad I didn’t
	 B: 	 Yeah, yeah.
	 A: 	 because it’s really going downhill up there.
	 B: 	
It has. I don’t know what they’re going to have to do to boost it, but
they need to do something quick.
	 A: 	
Well, you know, I, I was, when, when the big boom was going on, I
was thinking well, Dukakis must be an absolute genius.
	 B: 	 Yeah.
		 [Switchboard corpus; punctuation in the original]
	 b.	
[…] Well, you know, I, I was, when, when the big boom was going
on, I was thinking well, #Dukakis would be an absolute genius.
The context in (12) does not provide a salient OP regarding Dukakis’s intellect; hence,
the use of epistemic would in (12b) is infelicitous. Nonetheless, the variant with epis-
temic must in (12a) is felicitous, demonstrating that must does not share the OP re-
quirement (cf. Stone 1994).
.  What makes the identity of the uncle less important in (11b) as compared to (11a) seems
to be the extensive information about wines and the absence of the uncle’s first name, both of
which reduce the discourse importance of the identity of the person who provided the wine.
.  Notice that the epistemic would in (12b) is of the first type, as the referent of the subject NP
is a discourse entity and not an OP variable. What this example shows is that even this use of
epistemic would requires an OP.
82	 Gregory Ward, Jeffrey P. Kaplan, and Betty J. Birner
	 As a focus-presupposition construction, then, epistemic would requires a salient OP,
containing some underspecified element represented by a variable. The instantiation of
this variable, in turn, corresponds to the focus of the utterance (e.g., Francis Ford Cop‑
pola in (11a)). As with other focus-sensitive constructions, the focus in the epistemic
would construction is drawn from a contextually salient set of alternatives (Rooth 1985;
Prince 1986). If no clearly defined set of alternatives is contextually salient, variable in-
stantiation with epistemic would is predicted to be infelicitous, a prediction borne out
by the data:
	 (13)	 a.	 Q:	 What time was that when you saw him arrive?
	 A:	 That would be approximately 11: 40.
	 [Simpson trial transcripts]
b.	 Q:	 When did you see him arrive?
	 A:	 #That would be late.
In (13b), the response fails to instantiate the variable with a member of a contextual-
ly salient set, because late is only an ill-defined area of an infinitely varying temporal
scale.
	 The use of epistemic would to instantiate the variable in an OP furthermore commits
the speaker to a belief that the proposition provides a true instantiation of the variable.
Thus, for example, the speaker in (13a) commits to the truth of the assertion I saw him
arrive at approximately 11: 40, just as the speaker in (1) commits to the truth of the as-
sertion Blagojevich is the current governor of Illinois in a way that the speakers in (2a–c)
and – notably – (2d) do not. As further evidence, consider the following minimal pair:
	 (14)	 A:	 Who is visiting that woman across the street tonight?
B1: 	
Take a look out the window. #That would be John, if there’s a red VW out-
side.
B2: 	
Take a look out the window. That would be John, given that there’s a red
VW outside.
The if-clause contingency in B1’s reply removes any possibility of commitment to the
truth of the proposition in the main clause; contrast B2, where the evidence provided in
the given that clause provides a basis for such a commitment.
4.  Reference to OP variable
As noted above, the second type of epistemic would construction that we have identi-
fied shares a number of properties with that-clefts. In this use of epistemic would, the
subject NP is a demonstrative whose antecedent is the variable of the relevant OP. Con-
sider (15):
	 (15)	 A:	
[Hotel guest] To get to the early opening for Epcot, do you take a tram or
a boat?
	 Epistemic would, open propositions, and truncated clefts 83
B:	 [Concierge] That would be the boat, Ms. Birner.
	 [telephone conversation, 9/97]
	 (16)	 B′: 	 That would be the boat that you take to get to the early opening for Epcot.
In (15), the demonstrative subject lacks a plausible antecedent in the discourse; instead,
that here must be interpreted as anaphoric to the variable in the OP ‘You take X to get
to the early opening for Epcot’. Now consider the full cleft paraphrase in (16); here, the
subject that shares the property of being able to take the OP variable as its anteced-
ent. (There is also an irrelevant, non-cleft reading for B’ in which that is deictic, which
would be appropriate if, e.g., uttered while pointing to a boat.) The fact that that may
be anaphoric to the OP variable in both (15) and the full that-cleft variant in (16) raises
the possibility of treating epistemic would sentences like that in (15) as truncated that-
clefts analogous to the truncated clefts of Hedberg 2000.
5.  Number mismatch
A further parallel comes from the possibility of an apparent number mismatch in both
the epistemic would construction and full clefts. By ‘number mismatch’ we mean a sin-
gular subject (and, if the copula is finite, singular copula) but a plural post-copular con-
stituent. An example of a number mismatch in an epistemic would utterance is provid-
ed in (17); the same phenomenon for a cleft is shown in (18).
	 (17)	 Let’s look at the markets that opened with New York today. That would be the
Toronto Stock Exchange and the Mexico Stock Exchange.
[“Markets in a Minute”, Channel 23 TV; 9/18/01]
	 (18)	 A: 	 What markets opened with New York today?
B: 	 That’s the Toronto Stock Exchange and the Mexico Stock Exchange that
opened with New York.
The felicity of the full cleft paraphrase for (17) (i.e., That would be the Toronto Stock Ex‑
change and the Mexico Stock Exchange that opened with New York) illustrates this simi-
larity between epistemic would and the corresponding full that-cleft. The number mis-
match that we see in both the full cleft and the epistemic would construction can be
attributed to the fact that, in both cases, the subject NP that takes as its referent the OP
variable (which is invariably singular).
6.  Exhaustiveness
The exhaustiveness that we attribute to the epistemic would construction in Birner et al.
(2003) parallels that associated with clefts (Gundel 1977, 1985; Halvorsen 1978; Horn
84	 Gregory Ward, Jeffrey P. Kaplan, and Betty J. Birner
1981; Szabolcsi 1981; Hedberg 1990, 2000; Kiss 1998; inter alia), as shown in (19):
	 (19)	 a.	
Let’s look at the markets that opened with New York today. That would be
the Toronto Stock Exchange and the Mexico Stock Exchange. [=(17)]
b.	 A:	 I need to know which markets opened with New York. Brazil?
	 B: 	
No. It’s the Toronto Stock Exchange and the Mexico Stock Exchange
that opened with New York.
In (19a), the hearer can infer from the use of epistemic would that the Toronto Stock
Exchange and the Mexico Stock Exchange exhaust the set of stock markets that opened
with New York, just as, in (19b), exhaustiveness is inferred from the cleft. Were the
speaker in either case to continue with the mention of additional stock markets, infelic-
ity would result, as illustrated in (20):
	 (20) 	 Let’s look at the markets that opened with New York today. That would be the
Toronto Stock Exchange and the Mexico Stock Exchange. #Another market that
opened with New York is the Brazil Stock Exchange…
Here, the exhaustiveness conveyed by the use of epistemic would is incompatible with
the subsequent inclusion of additional set members. This exhaustiveness can be seen
most clearly in response to superlative questions, which convey the expectation of a
unique, and therefore exhaustive, answer:
	 (21)	 a.	 A:	 I want to knit you a sweater. What’s your favorite color?
	 B: 	 That would be blue.
	 OP: 	B’s favorite color is X.
b.	 A:	 I want to knit you a sweater. What’s a color you like?
	 B:	 
?That would be blue.
Speaker B in (21a) is committed to blue being a true and exhaustive instantiation of the
variable in the OP ‘My favorite color is X’. In (21b), on the other hand, Speaker A’s ques-
tion assumes a non-exhaustive answer, as evidenced by the use of the indefinite NP a
color you like. In this context, the exhaustiveness conveyed by Speaker B’s use of epis-
temic would is unexpected, as it suggests that blue is the only color he or she likes. Such
an interpretation is confirmed by (22):
	 (22)	 A: 	 Where are your dress shirts?
B: 	 That would be this one.
	 [conversation, standing in front of closet]
Here, B conveys ironically that he owns exactly one dress shirt.
	 Notice that the exhaustiveness implicature associated with the epistemic would
construction is attributable not to the epistemic modal itself, but to the definite that
in combination with the equative copula. That is, that is anaphorically (and, as a def-
inite, uniquely) identified with the variable in the OP, and the equative in turn identi-
fies that set with the referent of the post-copular NP. To see this, compare the use of
	 Epistemic would, open propositions, and truncated clefts 85
the copula as in (19)–(22) with the use of a non-copular verb, as in (23):
	 (23)	 a.	
I need to talk to Andy to see if he’s interested in going to a departure
lunch for Zenith employees who are leaving, this Friday, at 11: 30, at Little
Villa – these employees would include myself – um, as well as another issue
I wanted to talk to him about.
b. 	
I need to talk to Andy to see if he’s interested in going to a departure
lunch for Zenith employees who are leaving, this Friday, at 11: 30, at Little
Villa – #that would include myself – um, as well as another issue I wanted
to talk to him about.
The infelicity of (23b) is predictable from the semantics of include, as include would not
be expected to convey exhaustiveness.
7.  Ambiguity
The ability of that to take the OP variable as its antecedent in both that-clefts and equa-
tives with epistemic would gives rise to an ambiguity found in both constructions with
respect to the antecedent of the demonstrative. This is illustrated in (24a)–(b):
	 (24) 	 a. 	
Targeted at 6- to 12-year-olds, the “Zoom” revival, like the original, pits
seven telegenic youngsters…against a variety of activities and challenges
that viewers send in.… If nothing else, it should once again make that of
Boston PBS affiliate WGBH, where this is produced, the best known Zip
Code in the nation. That would be [singing] 0–2-1–3-4.
	 [“Channel surfing,” Chicago Tribune, 11/3/97, sec. 5, p. 8]
b. 	 …That would be 0–2-1–3-4 that’s the best known Zip Code in the nation.
In (24a), the last sentence is ambiguous: The demonstrative that may be anaphoric ei-
ther to the phrase the best known Zip Code in the nation or to the variable in the OP ‘The
best known zip code in the nation is X’. We find precisely the same ambiguity in the case
of the full that-cleft in (24b); the subject NP here can be used to refer either to the best
known Zip Code in the nation or to the OP variable. And note that (15) above is also
ambiguous in precisely this way: in the telephone context provided, the most plausible
reading is one in which that is anaphoric to the variable in the OP, but in a context in
which the concierge were pointing to a boat, the most plausible reading would be one in
which that has deictic reference to the boat itself.
	 Recall that the OP requirement we have posited holds for both kinds of epistemic
would: those cases with reference to a variable and those with reference to a previously
.  The use of (syntactically) non-copular verbs with epistemic would is highly constrained,
restricted to a small set of copula-like verbs including, inter alia, include, go (in the sense of
­
‘belong’), fit, comprise, and belong.
86	 Gregory Ward, Jeffrey P. Kaplan, and Betty J. Birner
evoked or inferrable discourse entity. Consider again (12b), repeated below for conven-
ience:
	 (25) 	 […] Well, you know, I, I was, when, when the big boom was going on, I was
thinking well, #Dukakis would be an absolute genius.
Here, there is no cleft-like interpretation available, due to the full NP in subject posi-
tion. However, the infelicity of this example in the context provided in (12) shows that
a salient OP is nonetheless required for the felicity of epistemic would. Thus, the OP re-
quirement applies to all uses of epistemic would, and cannot be attributed to the cleft-
like properties of one type of epistemic would construction.
8.  A comparison of epistemic would with must
When we compare epistemic would with epistemic must, we see important differences.
Stone (1994) argues that an utterance with epistemic must conveys that a logical argu-
ment leading to the proposition expressed is justified, and that the facts it relies on are
mutually salient. Consider (26):
	 (26)	 Ann: Where is the sugar?
Mary: It must be in the cabinet over the fridge.
[Stone 1994]
Stone suggests that a plausible context for (26) must include the fact that Mary has just
seen something or deduced something from which she concludes that the sugar is in
the cabinet over the fridge. She may have seen a trail of white particles, or realized that
only one cabinet remains that has not been ruled out as the location of the sugar. Thus,
according to Stone, use of epistemic must is felicitous only when the proposition fol-
lows from the facts mutually salient in the context.
	 However, Stone’s requirement is too strong; as shown in (27), the evidence for the
proposition need not be mutually salient:
	 (27)	 a.	 What a party that was. I must have drunk a dozen margaritas.
b.	 A:	 Sorry, Jan’s not home. She went to a play.
	 B:	 Really? Which one?
	 A:	 I don’t know. She didn’t say.
	 B:	
Oh, it must be Romeo and Juliet. I remember she mentioned she was
going to see it this week.
In both of these instances, the felicitous use of epistemic must rests not on facts that are
salient in the context, but just on the speaker having some reasoned basis for the con-
clusion. All that is required is that it be plausible to the addressee that there is an argu-
ment on which the speaker relies; neither the argument nor the facts it uses need be
mutually salient.
	 Epistemic would, open propositions, and truncated clefts 87
	 Epistemic would can likewise occur in a context in which a reasoned argument justi-
fies the conclusion:
	 (28)	 A: 	 There’s only one card left.
B1: 	Well, I’ve only seen three queens, so that would be the Queen of Hearts.
B2:	 Well, I’ve only seen three queens, so that must be the Queen of Hearts.
Both epistemic modals in (28) are felicitous because a valid process of logical deduc-
tion has led to the expressed conclusion. Providing such a deduction makes it not only
plausible, but obvious, that the speaker has relied on it, licensing must, and explains the
speaker’s commitment to the truth of the asserted proposition, licensing would.
	 The two modals are not identical in their requirements, however. They differ in two
crucial ways, the first having to do with the speaker’s degree of commitment to the
proposition, the second having to do with the requirement of an OP.
	 First, the speaker’s commitment to the truth of the proposition is stronger in the case
of epistemic would than in the case of epistemic must. That is, speaker B1 in (28) asserts
the truth of the proposition ‘that is the Queen of Hearts’ and thereby commits to its
truth. Speaker B2, on the other hand, asserts more weakly that the proposition follows
from the evidence available, but does not commit himself or herself to its truth. To put
it another way, B2 has made an assertion about his or her reasoning process, whereas
B1 has made an assertion about the state of the world.
	 When the relevant facts are clearly available and verifiable, and therefore no process
of logical reasoning is required, would may be felicitous, but epistemic must is not. To
see this, consider (29) in a context in which B is looking at the Twins’ website, where the
number of games between the Twins and the White Sox is explicitly listed:
	 (29)	 A: 	 How many times will the Twins play the White Sox this year?
B1:	 That would be six.
B2:	 #That must be six.
On the other hand, where a reasoning process exists but there is no commitment to the
truth of the conclusion, must is felicitous but would is not, as in (30) on the epistemic
reading:
	 (30)	 a.	
Two-part epoxy is really good for impressing the kids, because it obvi-
ously has two components, which must be mixed together before using.
The kids will watch you and think “that must be some really powerful
stuff if you have to mix it together!” and from then on they’ll think Dad is
a real fix-it pro. [http://www.psrc.usm.edu/macrog/epoxy.htm]
b.	 #…that would be some really powerful stuff if you have to mix it together!
As we saw in example (14) above, an epistemic would-clause that is conjoined to a con-
ditional if-clause is contingent on it, so the speaker cannot commit to its truth; hence
the utterance with epistemic would is infelicitous. But a conditional if-clause has no
such effect on the felicity of epistemic must.
88	 Gregory Ward, Jeffrey P. Kaplan, and Betty J. Birner
	 Similarly, consider (31):
	 (31)	 A: 	 What’s this three-line poem on page 12?
B1: 	That would be a haiku.
B2: 	That must be a haiku.
The most natural context for B1’s response is one in which B has looked at the poem and
confirmed it as a haiku before using epistemic would. The most natural context for the
response with epistemic must, however, is one in which B2 cannot see the poem but can
only infer its type from the mention of three lines. Indeed, if B2 is able to examine the
poem directly, and knows precisely what a haiku is, the utterance with epistemic must
becomes quite odd.
	 The second difference between epistemic would and must is that would, as we ob-
served, requires a contextually salient OP, whereas must does not. Consider again ex-
ample (12), repeated below as (32):
	 (32)	 a.	 A: 	 Couple of years ago I was thinking about moving to Massachusetts,
	 B: 	 Uh-huh.
	 A:	 but, uh, boy I’m glad I didn’t
	 B: 	 Yeah, yeah.
	 A: 	 because it’s really going downhill up there.
	 B: 	
It has. I don’t know what they’re going to have to do to boost it, but
they need to do something quick.
	 A: 	
Well, you know, I, I was, when, when the big boom was going on,
I was thinking well, Dukakis must be an absolute genius.
	 B: 	 Yeah.
b.	
[…] Well, you know, I, I was, when, when the big boom was going on,
I was thinking well, #Dukakis would be an absolute genius.
From the context provided in (32a), we can infer a reasoning process to the assert-
ed conclusion about Dukakis’ intellect, rendering the must variant in (32a) felicitous;
nonetheless, the context does not provide a salient OP regarding his intellect. The ab-
sence of the necessary OP renders the would variant in (32b) infelicitous.
	 Moreover, that as a subject for epistemic must is much more constrained in its ability
to take an OP variable as its antecedent. Consider the contrast in (33):
	 (33)	 A:	 When was this roof put on?
B1: 	 That would be 1946.
B2:	 That would have been 1946.
B3: 	 That must have been 1946.
B4: 	 # That must be 1946.
OP:	 This roof was put on at time X.
Here, the fact that the verb complex in B1 needn’t mark the past time reference via have
	 Epistemic would, open propositions, and truncated clefts 89
is due to the fact that that is anaphoric to the OP variable. Because the variable-instan-
tiation is occurring at the time of utterance, present tense is appropriate. In the case of
epistemic must, on the other hand, no OP is required; hence, with no sufficiently salient
OP variable, the only available antecedent for that is the event itself.
Because this event
is in the past, have is required (B3), and its absence (B4) results in infelicity.
9.  Conclusion
In this chapter, we have argued for the existence of two constructions containing epis-
temic would: The subject NP of the first type has anaphoric or deictic reference to some
situationally or textually evoked entity, while the subject NP of the second type is ana-
phoric to the variable in a salient OP in the context. We have shown that this second
type is typically paraphrasable as a cleft and shares many pragmatic properties with
clefts: Both permit apparent number disagreement, convey exhaustiveness of the
postcopular constituent, and support a systematic ambiguity with respect to the refer-
ent of the subject. These results raise the possibility of simply treating the variable-refer-
ring epistemic would construction as a type of truncated cleft, thereby attributing many
of its properties to its status as a cleft. However, the fact that epistemic would requires
an OP independently —  that is, in cases where no truncated-cleft analysis is availa-
ble — suggests the alternative possibility that the considerable overlap in the properties
of this epistemic would construction and clefts is due to their shared OP requirement in
combination with equative syntax and a demonstrative subject NP. That is, their shared
properties may derive from the fact that both constructions are cases of a more general
category of OP-requiring constructions, including preposings and contrastive accent.
Belonging to that category would provide a basis for the apparent number mismatch,
exhaustiveness readings, and ambiguity seen both in clefts and in this epistemic would
construction. Further research into the commonalities among these constructions not
only may lead to an explanatory account of the properties of all such constructions, but
also may shed light more generally on the role and effects of open propositions in dis-
course.
References
Ball, Catherine N. 1977. “Th-clefts.” In Penn Review of Linguistics, C. Ball and P. Price (eds),
2: 57–64.
Ball, Catherine N. 1978. “It-clefts and th-clefts.” Paper presented at the LSA summer meeting,
Champaign-Urbana, IL, July.
.  Presumably, by requiring an OP, epistemic would raises the salience of the variable of that OP
sufficiently to render it available for subsequent demonstrative reference, unlike epistemic must,
which has no such requirement and therefore no such effect.
90	 Gregory Ward, Jeffrey P. Kaplan, and Betty J. Birner
Birner, Betty J., Kaplan, Jeffrey P. and Ward, Gregory. 2001. “Open propositions and epistem-
ic would.” Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the Linguistic Society of America,
Washington, D.C., January.
Bolinger, Dwight. 1972. That’s that. The Hague: Mouton.
Coates, Jennifer. 1983. The Semantics of the Modal Auxiliaries. London & Canberra: Croom
Helm.
Gundel, Jeanette. 1977. “Where do cleft sentences come from?” Language 53: 34–59.
Gundel, Jeanette. 1985. “‘Shared knowledge’ and topicality.” Journal of Pragmatics 9: 83–107.
Halvorsen, Per-Kristian. 1978. The Syntax and Semantics of Cleft Constructions. Texas Linguis-
tics Forum, 11. Austin: University of Texas Department of Linguistics.
Hedberg, Nancy. 1990. Discourse Pragmatics and Cleft Sentences in English. Ph.D. thesis, Univer-
sity of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN.
Hedberg, Nancy. 2000. “The referential status of clefts.” Language 76: 891–920.
Higgins, F. Roger. 1973. The Pseudocleft Construction in English, Ph.D. thesis, MIT [revised ver-
sion published by Garland, New York, 1979].
Horn, Laurence R. 1981. “Exhaustiveness and the semantics of clefts.” In Papers from the 11th
Annual Meeting of the North Eastern Linguistic Society, V. Burke and J. Pustejovsky (eds),
125–42.
Jenkins, Lyle. 1975. The English Existential. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Kiss, Katalin É. 1998. “Identificational focus vs. information focus.” Language 74: 245–73.
Nuyts, Jan. 2001. Epistemic Modality, Language and Conceptualization: A Cognitive–Pragmatic
Perspective. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Palmer, Frank R. 1990. Modality and the English Modals. New York: Longman.
Perkins, Michael R. 1983. Modal Expressions in English. London: Frances Pinter.
Prince, Ellen F. 1986. “On the syntactic marking of presupposed open propositions.” In Papers
from the Parasession on Pragmatics and Grammatical Theory, 22nd Meeting of the Chicago
Linguistic Society, A. Farley, P. Farley, and K.-E. McCullough (eds), 208–22.
Rooth, Mats. 1985. Association with Focus. Ph.D. thesis, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
MA.
Stone, Matthew. 1994. “The reference argument of epistemic must.” In International Workshop
on Computational Semantics, H. Bunt, R. Muskens, and G. Rentier (eds). Tilburg: ITK,
181–90.
Sweetser, Eve. 1982. “Root and epistemic modals: Causality in two worlds.” In Proceedings of
the Eighth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, M. Macaulay, O. Gensler,
C. Brugman, I. Civkulus, A. Dahlstrom, K. Krile, and R. Sturm (eds), 484–507.
Szabolcsi, Anna. 1981. “The semantics of topic-focus articulation.” In Formal Methods in the
Study of Language, J. A. G. Groenendijk, T. M.V. Janssen, and M. B. J. Stokhof (eds), 513–41.
Mathematisch Centrum, Amsterdam.
Ward, Gregory, Birner, Betty J., and Kaplan, Jeffrey P. 2003. “A pragmatic analysis of the epistem-
ic would construction in English.” In Modality in Contemporary English, R. Facchinetti, M.
Krug and F. Palmer (eds). [Topics in English Linguistics 44, General Editors: B. Kortmann
and E. Closs Traugott] Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter, 270–9.
Wirth, Jessica. 1978. “The derivation of cleft sentences in English.” Glossa 12: 58–81.
chapter 5
It’s over
Verbal ‑le in Mandarin Chinese*
Hooi Ling Soh and Mei Jia Gao
University of Minnesota
1.  Introduction
The Mandarin Chinese particle ‑le may appear immediately after the verb as shown
in (1a) or at the end of the sentence as in (1b), or in both positions simultaneously as
shown in (1c).
	 (1)	 a.	 Women daoda le shan-ding.
	 we reach le mountain-top
	 ‘We reached the top of the mountain.’
b.	 Women daoda shan-ding le.
	 we reach mountain-top le
	 ‘We reached the top of the mountain.’
c.	 Women daoda le shan-ding le.
	 we reach le mountain-top le
	 ‘We reached the top of the mountain.’
Following convention, we refer to the ‑le that occurs immediately after the verb as ver-
bal ‑le, and the one that occurs at the end of the sentence as sentential ‑le.
	 The status of verbal ‑le remains controversial. While it is often taken to be a perfec-
tive aspect marker (Li and Thompson 1981; Ross 1995; Smith 1997), there is an alterna-
tive view that has gained ground in recent work, which treats verbal -le as a realization
 
*  This chapter is dedicated to Jeanette Gundel, who has been a role model, mentor and a con-
stant source of inspiration and encouragement. We would like to thank David Beaver, Bridg-
et Copley, Kai von Fintel, Jeanette Gundel, Irene Heim, Michael Kac, Jimmy Lin, Jo-wang Lin,
Ted Pedersen, Norvin Richards, Susan Rothstein, Christina Schmitt, Carlota Smith and Shiao-
Wei Tham for very helpful discussions. We also thank the participants at the Syntax-semantics
reading group at MIT, and the audiences at the 8th Texas Linguistic Society Conference, the
Workshop on Event Structures in Linguistic Form and Interpretation at Leipzig, and the 16th
North American Conference on Chinese Linguistics for questions and comments. In addition,
we would like to thank Nancy Hedberg, Ron Zacharski and an anonymous reviewer for very
helpful comments. All errors are ours. This research was funded in part by a grant from the Chi-
ang Ching-Kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange and a University of Minnesota
Single Semester Leave, both awarded to Hooi Ling Soh.
92	 Hooi Ling Soh and Mei Jia Gao
marker (Liu 1988; Sybesma 1997, 1999; Lin 2003).
The controversy arises from disa-
greements about the precise meanings contributed by verbal ‑le, and whether verbal ‑le
may occur in stative sentences. In this chapter, we provide a systematic examination
of the semantic contributions of verbal ‑le, separating entailments from implicatures.
In section 2, we show that verbal ‑le gives rise to a terminative reading when the sen-
tence describes an atelic event and a completive reading when the event is telic (Smith
1997).
We also show that verbal ‑le cannot occur in stative sentences in general, except
when the states are bounded (Kang 1999; Wu 2000; compare Li and Thompson 1981;
Ross 1995; Sybesma 1997; Smith 1997; Huang and Davis 1989; Klein et al. 2000). On
the basis of the readings associated with verbal ‑le, we claim that it is a perfective as-
pect marker. In section 3, we discuss an alternative analysis of verbal ‑le as a realization
marker. Researchers who take this view disagree with the claim that verbal ‑le always
provides a terminative/completive reading (Liu 1988; Sybesma 1997, 1999; Lin 2003).
It is argued that ‑le may provide an inchoative or a present continuative reading when
the event described is a state or an activity.We argue that the inchoative or the present
continuative reading associated with verbal ‑le is not entailed by verbal ‑le, but rather it
may be due to sentential ‑le or implicated by the use of verbal ‑le in achievement events
(cf. Wu 2005). The implication of the analysis is discussed in section 4. One major de-
bate in the study of the aspectual system in Mandarin is whether verbal ‑le and senten-
tial ‑le are instances of the same morpheme (Li and Thompson 1981; Ross 1995; Smith
1997; Sybesma 1999; Rohsenow 1978; Shi 1990; Huang and Davis 1989; Kang 1999; Lin
2003). By clarifying the meaning and distribution of verbal ‑le, through careful separa-
tion of implicatures from entailments, we are in a better position to determine if verbal
‑le and sentential ‑le are related.
2.  The semantic contributions of verbal ‑le
2.1  Achievements
When the sentence describes an achievement, verbal ‑le indicates that the inherent end
point of the achievement event is reached, i.e., the event is completed.
This is, how-
ever, not easy to show as the sentence with and without verbal ‑le seem to have the same
interpretations as shown in (2) and (3).
.  Verbal –le also has been claimed to be a relative anteriority marker (e.g., Shi 1988), or a com-
bination of tense and aspect marker (e.g., Ross 1995; Lin 2000; Wu 2000).
.  A telic event (e.g., reach the top of the mountain, wrote a letter) has a natural endpoint that
represents the goal or outcome of the event, while an atelic event (e.g., walk) does not.We follow
Smith (1994, 1997) in the use of the terms termination and completion. Termination indicates
that an arbitrary end point of the event is reached, while completion indicates that the natural
endpoint of the event is reached.
.  Achievements, accomplishments, activities and states refer to situation types (as opposed to
verb types) in this chapter.
	 Verbal ‑le in Mandarin Chinese 93
	 (2)	 a.	 Tamen ganggang daoda shan-ding.
	 they just reach mountain-top
	 ‘They just reached the top of the mountain.’
b.	 Tamen ganggang daoda le shan-ding.
	 they just reach le mountain-top
	 ‘They just reached the top of the mountain.’
	 (3)	 a.	 Ta zhong tou jiang.Wo de anwei jiang.
	 he hit first prize I get consolation prize
	 ‘He hit the jackpot. I got the consolation prize.’
b.	 Ta zhong le tou jiang.Wo de le anwei jiang.
	 he hit le first prize I get le consolation prize
	 ‘He hit the jackpot. I got the consolation prize.’
However, we suggest that the completive reading in (2a) and (3a) is a default reading,
while the one in (2b) and (3b) is entailed by verbal ‑le. This is because the completive
reading in sentences without verbal ‑le is not always available, in contrast to sentences
with verbal ‑le. As shown in (4) and (5), sentences without verbal ‑le can have a non-
completive reading, unlike sentences with verbal ‑le.
	 (4)	 a.	 Tamen mingtian hui daoda shan-ding.
	 they tomorrow will reach mountain-top
	 ‘They will reach the top of the mountain tomorrow.’
b.	 
*Tamen mingtian hui daoda le shan-ding.
	 they tomorrow will reach le mountain-top
	 (5)	 a.	 Ta hui zhong toujiang.
	 he will hit jackpot
	 ‘He will hit the jackpot.’
b.	 
*Ta hui zhong le toujiang.
	 he will hit le jackpot
2.2  Activities
With activities, verbal ‑le indicates that the event has terminated. An arbitrary end
point of the event is assigned. (6) and (7) show that a completive reading is not neces-
sary in sentences without verbal ‑le, unlike those with verbal ‑le.
.  A better minimal pair would be one without ganggang ‘just’ to ensure that the completive
reading does not come from the adverb. However, the sentence tamen daoda shan-ding ‘they
reached the top of the mountain’ does not sound natural.
.  It should be noted that a simple sentence that describes an activity sounds incomplete with
verbal ‑le (Jo-wang Lin, p.c.; Wu 2005; Tham and Soh 2006). Following Tham and Soh (2006),
we assume that the relevant sentences are grammatical, and they are odd because they do not
satisfy a discourse requirement of verbal ‑le sentences.
94	 Hooi Ling Soh and Mei Jia Gao
	 (6)	 a.	 Ta you yong. Wo pao bu.
	 he swim swim I run step
	 ‘He swims. I run.’
b.	 Ta you le yong. Wo pao le bu.
	 he swim le swim I run le step
	 ‘He swam. I ran.’
	 (7)	 a.	 Ta da ta de meimei.
	 he hit he poss sister (younger)
	 ‘He hits his sister.’
b.	 Ta da le ta de meimei.
	 he hit le he poss sister (younger)
	 ‘He hit his sister.’
This difference in reading can be brought out with a progressive marker zai and a ha-
bitual adverb such as mei-tian ‘every day’. As shown below, sentences without verbal ‑le
may appear with zai and mei-tian, while those with verbal ‑le may not.
	 (8)	 a.	 Ta mei-tian you yong.
	 he every day swim swim
	 ‘He swims every day.’
b.	 
*Ta mei-tian you le yong.
	 he every day swim le swim
	 (9)	 a.	 Ta zai you yong.
	 he prog swim swim
	 ‘He is swimming.’
b.	 
*Ta zai you le yong.
	 he prog swim le swim
	 (10)	 a.	 Ta mei-tian da ta de meimei.
	 he every day hit he poss sister (younger)
	 ‘He hits his sister everyday.’
b.	 
*Ta mei-tian da le ta de meimei.
	 he every day hit le he poss sister (younger)
	 (11)	 a.	 Ta zai da ta de meimei.
	 he prog hit he poss sister (younger)
	 ‘He is hitting his sister.’
b.	 
*Ta zai da le ta de meimei.
	 he prog hit le he poss sister (younger)
.  The following abbreviations are used in this chapter: cl=classifier, poss=possessive, prog=
progressive.
	 Verbal ‑le in Mandarin Chinese 95
2.3  Accomplishments
The situation with accomplishment events is more complicated. Verbal ‑le sometimes
indicates the mere termination of the event and sometimes the completion of the event
(Chu 1976; Tai 1984; Smith 1994, 1997; Sybesma 1997, 1999; Klein et al. 2000; Soh and
Kuo 2005). Consider the examples in (12) and (13).
	 (12)	 a.	 Ta xie yi-feng xin. Wo xie liang-feng xin.
	 he write one-cl letter I write two-cl letter
	 ‘He writes a letter. I write two letters.’
b.	 Ta xie le yi-feng xin. Wo xie le liang-feng xin.
	 he write le one-cl letter I write le two-cl letter
	 ‘He wrote a letter. I wrote two letters.’
	 (13)	 a.	 Ta hua yi-fu hua. Wo hua liang-fu hua.
	 he draw one-cl picture I draw two-cl picture
	 ‘He draws a picture. I draw two pictures.’
b.	 Ta hua le yi-fu hua. Wo hua le liang-fu hua.
	 he draw le one-cl picture I draw le two-cl picture
	 ‘He drew a picture. I drew two pictures.’
In contrast to the events described by the sentences with verbal ‑le, the events described
by the sentences without verbal ‑le need not be completed or terminated.
	 It has been widely noted that the presence of verbal ‑le in an accomplishment sen-
tence in Mandarin does not necessarily indicate completion. The event can be termi-
nated without having reached the inherent end point. This is shown by the fact that it is
not contradictory to conjoin the first sentence in (14a) and (14b) with an assertion that
the event is not complete (Tai 1984).
.  Given that completion is not necessary, one may wonder if the first conjunct in (14a) and
(14b) describes activities (e.g., Tai 1984) as opposed to accomplishments. There is reason to
maintain that they describe accomplishments. Soh and Kuo (2005) show that completion is re-
quired with some created objects, namely those that cannot be considered an instance of the
object until the creation process has reached its inherent end point. There is a contrast between
the created object yi-feng xin ‘a letter’ and yi-ge zi ‘a character’, and between yi-fu hua ‘a picture’
and yi-ge quan-quan ‘a circle’.
	 (i)	 Ta hua-le yi-fu hua/ #yi-ge quan-quan, keshi mei hua-wan
		 he draw-le one-cl picture/one-cl circle but not paint-finish
		 ‘He drew a picture/a circle, but he didn’t finish drawing it.’
	 (ii)	 Ta xie-le yi-feng xin/ #yi-ge zi, keshi mei xie-wa
		 he write-le one-cl letter/one-cl character but not write-finish
		 ‘He wrote a letter/a character, but he didn’t finish writing it.’
Unlike a character and a circle, a partially written letter and a partially drawn picture can be
considered an instance of a letter and a picture respectively. Soh and Kuo (2005) propose that
in creation events, ‑le indicates the completion of the event leading to the creation of an object
that qualifies as the relevant object.
96	 Hooi Ling Soh and Mei Jia Gao
	 (14)	 a.	 
Wo zuotian xie le yi-feng xin, keshi mei xie-wan.
	 I yesterday write le one-cl letter but not write-finish
	 ‘I started writing a letter yesterday, but I didn’t finish writing it.’
b.	 Ta hua-le yi-fu hua, keshi mei hua-wan.
	 he draw-le one-cl picture but not draw-finish
	 ‘He started drawing a picture, but he didn’t finish drawing it.’
However, when a completive marker such as wan ‘finish’ follows the verb, verbal ‑le
must indicate that the event is completed, and not merely terminated (Tai 1984; Smith
1994, 1997). This is shown by the fact that an accomplishment sentence with a comple-
tive marker and verbal –le cannot be followed by an assertion that the event is not com-
plete.
	 (15)	 a.	 
#Wo zuotian xie-wan le yi-feng xin, keshi mei xie-wan. 
	 I yesterday write-finish le one-cl letter but not write-finish
	 ‘I wrote a letter yesterday, but I didn’t finish writing it.’
b.	 
#Ta zuotian hua-wan le yi-fu hua, keshi mei hua-wan.
	 he yesterday draw-finish le one-cl picture but not draw-finish
	 ‘He drew a picture yesterday, but he didn’t finish drawing it.’
Like accomplishment sentences with a completive marker, accomplishment sentences
with a numeral object must also be completed when verbal ‑le is present (Soh and Kuo
2005). Soh and Kuo (2005) suggest that yi ‘a/one’ is ambiguous between a numeral and
an indefinite determiner in Mandarin. Because of this, the effect of a numeral object is
not easily detected with the numeral yi ‘one’. The numeral objects liang-ge dangao ‘two
cakes’ and liang-fu hua ‘two pictures’ are contrasted with definite noun phrase objects
in the following examples. As shown in (16) and (17), verbal ‑le adds a completive read-
ing to the sentence that contains a numeral object, but only a terminative reading in
sentences without a numeral object.
	 (16)	 a.	 Ta chi le na-ge dangao, keshi mei chi-wan.
	 he eat le that-cl cake but not eat-finish
	 ‘He started eating that cake, but he did not finish eating it.’
.  # indicates that the conjunction is unacceptable, though each conjunct is acceptable on its
own.
.  The presence of wan ‘finish’ after the verb does not always indicate that the event is completed.
This is shown in (i) and (ii).
	 (i)	 Ni xie-wan zhe-feng xin.
		 you write-finish this-cl letter
		 ‘You finish writing this letter.’
	 (ii)	 
Ta yao wo xie-wan zhe-feng xin.
		 he want I write-finish this-cl letter
		 ‘He wants me to finish writing this letter.’
	 Verbal ‑le in Mandarin Chinese 97
b.	 #Ta chi le liang-ge dangao, keshi mei chi-wan.
	 he eat le two-cl cake but not eat-finish
	 ‘He ate two cakes, but he did not finish eating them.’
	 (17)	 a.	 Ta hua le na-fu hua, keshi mei hua-wan.
	 he draw le that-cl picture but not draw-finish
	 ‘He started drawing that picture, but he didn’t finish drawing it.’
b.	 #Ta hua le liang-fu hua, keshi mei hua-wan.
	 he draw le two-cl picture but not draw-finish
	 ‘He drew two pictures, but he didn’t finish drawing them.’
2.4  States
There is much disagreement in the literature about whether verbal ‑le can appear in sta-
tive sentences. For example, Huang and Davis (1989) and Shi (1990) claim that verbal
‑le may appear in stative sentences, while Li and Thompson (1981), Ross (1995), Sybes-
ma (1997), Smith (1997), Lin (2000) think otherwise.10
We agree with the latter group
of authors in claiming that verbal ‑le may not appear in stative sentences in general. Ex-
amples are given below.
	 (18)	 a.	 Ta xiang baba.
	 he resemble father
	 ‘He resembles dad.’
b.	 
*Ta xiang-le baba.
	 he resemble-le father (Ross 1995: 110)
	 (19)	 a.	 Ta shi daxuesheng.
	 he be college-student
	 ‘He is a college student.’
b.	 
*Ta shi-le daxuesheng.
	 he be-le college-student (Ross 1995: 112)
	 (20)	 a.	 Ta danxin ta de anquan.
	 he worry he poss safety
	 ‘He worries about his safety.’
b.	 
*Ta danxin-le ta de anquan.
	 he worry-le he poss safety
10.  Sybesma (1997) notes that verbal ‑le cannot appear with a stative predicate. However, it is
noted it may appear with an adjectival predicate, which is generally assumed to be stative. Con-
trary to a general assumption, Sybesma (1997) argues that adjectival predicates in Mandarin de-
scribe activities rather than states. They are dynamic and involve an open range (in terms of de-
gree).We differ from Sybesma (1997) in assuming that adjectival predicates are stative.
98	 Hooi Ling Soh and Mei Jia Gao
	 (21)	 a.	 
Wo xiang jia.
	 I miss home
	 ‘I miss home.’
b.	 
*Wo xiang-le jia.
	 I miss-le home
This generalization is supported by the fact that verbal ‑le cannot appear in habitual
sentences (Zhang 1997; Lin 2000), which are semantically stative (Smith 1994; Smith
and Erbaugh 2002).
	 (22)	 a.	 Wo zongshi kan ta xie de shu.
	 I always read he write de book
	 ‘I always read the books he writes.’
b.	 
*Wo zhongshi kan le ta xie de shu.
	 I always read le he write de book
	 (23)	 a.	 Wo meitian you yong.
	 I everyday swim swim
	 ‘I swim everyday.’
b.	 
*Wo meitian you le yong.
	 I everyday swim le swim
While it is true that verbal ‑le cannot appear in sentences that describe states in general,
it may appear in sentences that describe bounded states (Kang 1999: 83, Wu 2000: 467).
Examples are given in (24) and (25).
	 (24)	 Ta de lian hong le wu fenzhong
he poss face red le five minute
‘His face was red for five minutes.
	 (25)	 Ta de lian hong le yidian.
he poss face red le a bit
‘His face has become red by only a bit.’
‘His face was a bit too red (compared to a particular standard).’
Example (24) involves a state that is bounded by a duration phrase.Verbal ‑le indicates
completion (and not inchoativity) here. (25) may describe an achievement or a state (in
its comparative reading).When it is interpreted as an achievement, verbal ‑le indicates
the completion of the achievement event.While it is not clear what the semantic contri-
bution of verbal ‑le is in the comparative reading, the appearance of verbal ‑le in com-
paratives suggests that a differential degree may make a state bounded (see Kennedy
and Levin 2002), allowing verbal ‑le to occur in these stative sentences (but see Sybes-
ma 1997, 1999). One may wonder if this explanation works, given Kennedy and Levin’s
(2002) claim that a bit is a non-quantized measure phrase, in contrast to a quantized
measure phrase such as 5 meters. It is suggested that if a measure phrase is quantized,
	 Verbal ‑le in Mandarin Chinese 99
we get a telic interpretation, and an atelic interpretation otherwise.11
However, we find
that whether the differential degree is quantized or not does not matter for the bound-
edness of the event (see Rothstein 2004: 116–22).We find no difference between yidian
‘a bit’ and wu gongfen ‘5 centimeters’ in comparatives as shown in (26). Both (26a) and
(26b) may describe an achievement or a state (in its comparative reading). The measure
phrases make the states bounded, enabling verbal ‑le to occur in these sentences.
	 (26)	 a.	 Zhangsan gao le wu gongfen.
	 Zhangsan tall le five centimeter
	 ‘Zhangsan grew five centimeters in height.’
	 ‘
Zhangsan is five centimeters too tall (compared to a particular stand-
ard).’
b.	 Zhangsan gao le yidian.
	 Zhangsan tall le a bit
	 ‘Zhangsan grew a bit in height.’
	 ‘Zhangsan is a bit too tall (compared to a particular standard).’
2.5  Summary
In this section, we have shown that verbal ‑le indicates termination when the sentence
describes an atelic event and completion when the event is telic (Smith 1997). It does
not occur in stative sentences, except when they are bounded. The semantic contribu-
tions of verbal ‑le are summarized in Table 1. Given the readings associated with verbal
‑le, we follow Li and Thompson (1981) and Smith (1997) in claiming that verbal ‑le is a
perfective aspect marker.
3.  An alternative analysis
An alternative view of verbal ‑le is that it is a realization marker, and not a perfective as-
pect marker (Liu 1988; Sybesma 1997, 1999; Lin 2003). Previous authors who take this
11.  Kennedy and Levin’s (2002) claim is supported by the following entailments:
	 (i)	 a.	 The soup is cooling a bit ⇒ The soup has cooled a bit.
		 b.	 They are widening the road 5 meters. ⇒
/ They have widened the road 5 meters.
However, as Kennedy and Levin (2002) also note, there is no difference between a bit and 5 me‑
ters in the for-PP test.
	 (ii)	 a.	 The soup cooled a bit ?for 10 minutes/in 10 minutes.
		 b.	 They widened the road 5 meters ?for two days/in two days.
If one assumes that the for-PP test can distinguish a telic event from an atelic event, there is
no difference between the sentence with a bit and 5 meters in that both seem to describe telic
events.
100	 Hooi Ling Soh and Mei Jia Gao
position disagree with the claim that verbal ‑le always provides a terminative/comple-
tive reading. For example, Sybesma (1997) claims that verbal ‑le may give rise to an in-
choative reading when the sentence describes a state, and Lin (2003) claims that ver-
bal ‑le allows (but does not force) a present continuative reading when the sentence
describes an atelic event. Among those who claim that verbal ‑le is a realization marker,
Lin (2003) is most explicit about what it means for an event to be considered realized.
Lin (2003) adopts the concept of event realization in Bohnemeyer and Swift (2001) de-
fined in (27):
	 (27)	 λP, e, t ⊆ E [REALE (P, e, t) ↔ P(e) ∧ ∃e′ [P(e′) ∧ e′ ≤E e ∧ tSIT(e′) ⊆ t]].
Rule (27) says that “for an event e described by P to be realized at a (topic) time interval
t, t must contain the run time tSIT of a part e’ of e such that e’ is also a P” (Lin 2003: 270).
As Lin (2003: 270) notes, a consequence of the definition is that a telic event is realized
only when the inherent end point of the event is reached, but an atelic event can be real-
ized as long as a subpart of it holds. Lin (2003) argues that viewing verbal ‑le as a realiza-
tion marker allows us to account for why a perfective interpretation is found with sen-
tences that describe a telic event, and an imperfective interpretation may (though is not
necessarily) found with sentences that describe an atelic event. In this section, we con-
sider the data presented in previous work.We argue that the inchoative or the present
continuative reading associated with verbal ‑le is not entailed by verbal ‑le, but rather it
may be due to sentential ‑le or implicated by the use of verbal ‑le in achievement events
(cf.Wu 2005).
3.1  States
It is sometimes claimed that verbal ‑le may give rise to an inchoative reading when the
sentence describes a state (Smith 1997; Sybesma 1997). Examples that are often cited to
illustrate this meaning of verbal ‑le involve adjectival predicates.
	 (28)	 a.	 Zhangsan hen gao.
	 Zhangsan very tall
	 ‘Zhangsan is very tall.’
Table 1.  The semantic contributions of verbal -le
Situation type Contribution of verbal -le
States (unbounded)
States (bounded)
Not Allowed
Completion
Activities Termination
Achievements Completion
Accomplishments (with completive marker or numeral object) Completion
Accomplishments (without completive marker or numeral object) Termination
	 Verbal ‑le in Mandarin Chinese 101
b.	 Zhangsan gao le.
	 Zhangsan tall le
	 ‘Zhangsan became tall.’
	 (29)	 a.	 Ta de lian hen hong.
	 He poss face very red
	 ‘His face is very red.’
b.	 Ta de lian hong le.
	 he poss face red le
	 ‘His face turned red.’
Note however that in terms of word order, it is difficult to tell whether verbal ‑le or sen-
tential ‑le is involved.12
Another aspect of examples (28b) and (29b) that is unclear
is whether they describe states. Smith (1997: 70) seems to suggest that sentences like
(28b) and (29b) describe achievements, while Sybesma (1997: 228) appears to claim
that they describe activities.We suggest that if the particle ‑le in (28b) and (29b) is ver-
bal ‑le, the relevant sentences cannot describe states, given that verbal ‑le cannot occur
in sentences that describe states in general (except when the states are bounded).
	 There are however some examples that may cast doubt on the generalization that
verbal ‑le cannot appear in non-bounded stative sentences (see Huang and Davis 1989;
Shi 1990; Lin 2003). For example, one may claim that (30a) and (30b) describe states
with the readings ‘he now has five hundred dollars’ (Shi 1990: 108) and ‘he now knows
this matter’ respectively, instead of the readings given below. Given the stative readings
above, the sentences seem to be counter-examples to the claim that verbal ‑le cannot
appear in stative sentences.
	 (30)	 a.	 Ta you le wu-bai kuai.
	 he has le five-hundred dollar
	 ‘He has acquired five hundred dollars.’  (adapted from Shi 1990: 108)
b.	 Ta zhidao le zhe-jian shi.
	 he know le this-cl matter
	 ‘He came to know this matter.’
However, we claim that the sentences in (30) do not describe states, rather they describe
12.  Sybesma (1997: 233) provided (i), which cannot be analyzed as containing sentential ‑le, to
show that verbal ‑le can provide an inchoative reading.
	 (i)	 Ta gao le bu shao.
		 he tall le not little
		 ‘He has grown considerably.’
We think that the sentence describes an achievement and verbal ‑le provides a completive read-
ing to the achievement event.
102	 Hooi Ling Soh and Mei Jia Gao
achievements (see Ross 1995; Zhang 1997).13
The evidence comes from the interpret-
ation of these sentences with a point-in-time adverb such as at two o’clock.14
If the sen-
tence describes an achievement, at two o’clock refers to the time at which the goal is
reached. The achievement cannot hold any time before two (assuming that there is a
single event of achievement). If the sentence describes a state, it is not necessary for the
situation not to hold prior to two o’clock. As shown in (31a), the situation may hold be-
fore two o’clock when the verb does not take verbal ‑le, indicating that you may be stat-
ive. In (31b), the situation may not hold before two o’clock, suggesting that when verbal
‑le is attached to you, you can only describe an achievement.
	 (31)	 a.	 Zhangsan xiawu liang dian you wu bai kuai liang dian
	 Zhangsan afternoon two o’clock have five hundred dollar two o’clock
	 yiqian ta ye shi you wu bai kuai.
	 before he also be have five hundred dollar
	 ‘
Zhangsan had five hundred dollars at two o’clock. Before two o’clock, he
also had five hundred dollars.’
b.	 #Zhangsan xiawu liang dian you le wu bai kuai liang dian
	 Zhangsan afternoon two o’clock have le five hundred dollar two o’clock
	 yiqian ta ye shi you wu bai kuai.
	 before he also be have five hundred dollar
	 ‘
Zhangsan acquired five hundred dollars at two o’clock. Before two
o’clock, he also had five hundred dollars.’
The same pattern is found with zhidao ‘know’. As shown in (32a), the situation may
hold before two o’clock when the verb does not take verbal ‑le, indicating that zhidao
may be stative. In (32b), the situation may not hold before two o’clock, suggesting that
when verbal ‑le is attached to zhidao, zhidao can only describe an achievement.
	 (32)	 a.	 Ta xiawu liang dian zhidao zhe-jian shi.
	 he afternoon two o’clock know this-cl matter
	 Liang dian yiqian ye zhidao zhe-jian shi.
	 two o’clock before also know this-cl matter
	 ‘
He knew this matter at two o’clock. Before two o’clock, he also knew this
matter.’
13.  Ross (1995: 116–17) argues that you when followed by ‑le is not a stative predicate because
hen ‘very’ which can precede a stative verb, may not precede you.
	 (i)	 
Wo hen you qian.	 (ii)	 
*Wo hen you le qian.
		 I very have money		 I very have le money
		 ‘I have a lot of money.’
The test with hen ‘very’ is quite restrictive because hen can only occur with a stative verb when
the object is a bare nominal (see Ross 1995).
14.  Thanks to Christina Schmitt for discussions.
	 Verbal ‑le in Mandarin Chinese 103
b.	 
#Ta xiawu liang dian zhidao le zhe-jian shi.
	 he afternoon two o’clock know le this-cl matter
	 Liang dian yiqian ye zhidao zhe-jian shi.
	 two o’clock before also know this-cl matter
	 ‘
He came to know this matter at two o’clock. Before two o’clock, he also
knew this matter.’
	 As noted earlier, the claim that verbal ‑le may not appear in stative sentences is sup-
ported by its inability to appear in habitual sentences as well (see (22) and (23)), which
are semantically stative. However, one may object to our claim that verbal ‑le cannot
appear in habitual sentences given the acceptability of (33).
	 (33)	 Ta zongshi wang le ni-de mingzi.
he always forget le you-poss name
‘He always forgets your name.’ (Sybesma 1997: 232, translation ours)
However, there is evidence that there are two verbal ‑les (Shi 1988; Sybesma 1999; Wu
2000; but see Sybesma 1997).15
One is a perfective aspect marker, while the other is a
phase complement like diao ‘off’ or shang ‘up’. The phase complement ‑le can only com-
bine with a restricted set of verbs, while the perfective aspect ‑le is not lexically restrict-
ed. Lü (1980 cited inWu 2000) lists 28 verbs that can be combined with the phase com-
plement -le. They are wang ‘forget’, diu ‘throw/get rid of’, guan ‘close, shut’, he ‘drink’,
chi ‘eat’, yan ‘swallow’, tun ‘swallow’, po ‘slash’, sa ‘spill’, reng ‘throw/get rid of’, fang ‘re-
lease’, tu ‘scribble’, mo ‘wipe’, ca ‘wipe’, peng ‘bump’, za ‘break’, shuai ‘throw’, ke ‘crack’,
zhuang ‘hit’, cai ‘step on’, shang ‘injure’, sha ‘kill’, zai ‘kill’, qie ‘cut’, chong ‘flush’, mai ‘sell’,
huan ‘return’, hui ‘destroy’. Another difference between the phase complement and the
perfective aspect marker is that the phase complement can occur with the negation
meiyou, while the perfective aspect marker may not (examples adapted from Sybemsa
1997).
	 (34)	 a.	 Ta meiyou wang le na-jian shi.
	 he not-have forget le that-cl matter
	 ‘He did not forget that matter.’
b.	 
*Ta meiyou xie le yi-ben shu.
	 he not-have write le one-cl book
	 ‘He did not write a book.’
Given that wang ‘forget’ is one of the verbs that may take a phase complement, we sug-
gest that the particle ‑le in (33) is a phase complement (Wu 2000: 420) and not a perfec-
tive aspect marker.
15.  Sybesma (1999) for example argues that the two verbal ‑les are Realization ‑le and End-
point ‑le.
104	 Hooi Ling Soh and Mei Jia Gao
3.2  Activities
Lin (2003) notes that when the sentence describes an atelic situation (e.g., an activity
or a state), it may have a present continuative reading in the presence of verbal ‑le (see
also Liu 1988; Lin 2000). The examples below are given in Lin (2003: 266–7); the trans-
lations are ours.
	 (35)	 a.	 Ta yang le yi-tiao jinyu.
	 he raise le one-cl goldfish
	 ‘He is raising a goldfish.’
	 ‘He adopted a gold fish, and he is raising it.’
b.	 Wo (zai Boston) zu le yi-jian gongyu.
	 I in Boston rent le one-cl apartment
	 ‘I am renting an apartment in Boston.’
	
‘I rented (entered into a rental agreement for) an apartment in Boston,
and I am renting it.’
c.	 Zhangsan (shou-li) ti le yi-ge da pixiang.
	 Zhangsan hand-in carry le one-cl big suitcase
	 ‘Zhangsan is carrying a big suitcase (in his hand).’
	 ‘Zhangsan picked up a big suitcase, and he is carrying it (in his hand).’
d.	 Ni kan, Lisi qi le yi-pi ma wang cheng wai fangxiang zou,
	 you look Lisi ride le one-cl horse toward town outside direction walk
	 bu zhidao ta yao qu nar.
	 not know he want go where
	 ‘
Look! Lisi is riding a horse toward the direction of the outside of town. I
wonder where he wants to go.’
	 ‘
Look! Lisi mounted the horse and he is riding it toward the direction of
the outside of town. I wonder where he wants to go.’
However, it should be noted that the present continuative reading is not possible with
many activity sentences in the presence of verbal ‑le.16
Examples are given below.
16.  Lin (2003: 267) notes that there are many activity predicates that are incompatible with ‑le
and cites (i) as an example.
	 (i)	 
*Zhangsan kan le yi-zhi niao.
		 Zhangsan watch le one-cl bird
		 ‘Zhangsan is watching a bird/Zhangsan watched a bird.’
Lin notes that it is unclear what properties distinguish those atelic predicates that are compat-
ible with ‑le from those that are not. Lin assumes that a present continuative reading is in prin-
ciple available with atelic predicates and sentences like (i) are ruled out for independent reason.
We differ from Lin (2003) in what we view to be the core generalization.We think that a present
continuative reading is in general not available and it is only available with a small set of verbs
(see alsoWu 2004).While we agree that (i) does not sound natural, we think that it is acceptable
with a terminative reading with a richer context.
	 Verbal ‑le in Mandarin Chinese 105
	 (36)	 a.	 Ta you le yong.
	 he swim le swim
	 ‘He swam.’
	 Not ‘He is swimming.’
b.	 Ta zuo le yundong.
	 he do le exercise
	 ‘He exercised.’
	 Not ‘He is exercising.’
c.	 Ta ma le ta de haizi.
	 he scold le he poss child
	 ‘He scolded his child.’
	 Not ‘He is scolding his child.’
We claim that the present continuative reading with atelic predicates is not made pos-
sible by verbal ‑le.We argue instead that the present continuative interpretation in (35)
is an implicature. We suggest that the situations in (35) are ambiguous between activ-
ities and achievements. The verb yang in (35a) is ambiguous between ‘raise’ and ‘adopt’.
Zu in (35b) is ambiguous between ‘rent’ and ‘entering into a rental agreement’. Ti in
(35c) means both ‘carry’ and ‘pick up’, and the verb qi in (35d) means ‘ride’ or ‘mount’.
Verbal ‑le indicates that the achievement events are completed. With the logical end
point of the achievements reached in these sentences, one can infer pragmatically that
the activities or resulting states that usually follow from these achievement events oc-
cur. That the present continuative reading is an implicature is supported by the fact that
the reading can be cancelled as shown below.
	 (37)	 a.	 Ta yang le yi-tiao jinyu Kelian de jinyu jin zaoshang si le.
	 he raise le one-cl goldfish poor de goldfish this morning die le
	 ‘He raised a goldfish. The poor fish died this morning.’
b.	 Wo (zai Boston) zu le yi-jian gongyu. hai mei ban jin qu, fangdong
	 I in Boston rent le one-cl apartment yet not move in go landlord
	 jiu gai-bian zhu-yi bu zu gei wo le.
	 then change mind not rent to I le
	
‘I rented an apartment in Boston. Before I moved in, the landlord
changed his mind and decided not to rent to it to me.’
c.	 Zhangsan ti le yi-ge da pixiang, dan faxian bu shi ziji de, you
	 Zhangsan carry le one-cl big suitcase but discover not be self poss then
	 fang le huiqu.
	 put le back
	 (ii)	 Zhangsan qu dongwuyuan kan le yi zhi gang chushi de xiao xiongmao,
		 Zhangsan go zoo watch/see le one-cl just borned de small panda
		 hui lai hen kaixin
		 return very happy
		 ‘Zhangsan went to the zoo and saw a baby panda. He returned happy.’
106	 Hooi Ling Soh and Mei Jia Gao
	 ‘
Zhangsan picked up a big suitcase. But he realized it is not his, and he
put it back down.’
d.	 Lisi qi le yi-pi ma. Dan hai mei zuo wen, jiu shuai le xialai.
	 Lisi ride le one-cl horse but yet not sit steady then fall le down
	 ‘Lisi got on a horse. But before he could sit steadily, he fell down.’
The fact that the present continuative reading in (35) can be cancelled does not pose
a problem for Lin’s (2003) analysis. In Lin (2003), the present continuative reading
is available when the topic time is now (which is a default topic time when there is
no overt time adverb). It is possible to shift the topic time to a past time; in that case,
the event may be interpreted as terminated. There are however differences in predic-
tions between Lin’s (2003) analysis and the one proposed here. Lin (2003) predicts that
a present continuative reading is not available with telic events (e.g., achievements),
while our analysis predicts that it is possible. (38) involves a resultative verb compound,
formed by the verb qi ‘ride/mount’ and shang ‘up’. The sentence describes an achieve-
ment event. The same continuative interpretation is available in (38) when the sentence
contains verbal ‑le, even though the logical end point of the achievement predicate is
reached.
	 (38)	 Lisi qi shang le yi-pi ma, wang cheng wai zou qu.
Lisi ride up le one-cl horse toward town outside walk go
‘Lisi got on a horse, and rode towards the outside of town.’
This fact supports our analysis that the present continuative reading is an implicature
that arises with the completion of an achievement event, and is not due to the interac-
tion of verbal ‑le as a realization marker with an atelic predicate. Unlike achievements,
activities do not give rise to this implicature as shown in (36) above.
	 Further support for the analysis proposed here comes from the distribution of the
imperfective markers zai and zhe. As Lin (2003: 307) notes, the sentences in (35) are in-
compatible with the progressive marker zai.
	 (39)	 a.	 
*Ta zai yang yi-tiao jinyu.17
	 he prog raise one-cl goldfish
	 ‘He is raising a goldfish.’
b.	 
*Wo (zai Boston) zai zu yi-jian gongyu.
	 I in Boston prog rent one-cl apartment
	 ‘I am renting an apartment in Boston.’
c.	 
*Zhangsan (shou-li) zai ti yi-ge da pixiang.
	 Zhangsan hand-in prog carry one-cl big suitcase
	 ‘Zhangsan is carrying a big suitcase (in his hand).’
17.  The sentence is acceptable with yang interpreted as ‘feed’.
	 Verbal ‑le in Mandarin Chinese 107
d.	 
*Ni kan, Lisi zai qi yi-pi ma wang cheng wai fangxiang zou,
	 you look Lisi prog ride one-cl horse toward town outside direction
	 bu zhidao ta yao qu nar.
	 walk not know he want go where
	
‘Look! Lisi is riding a horse toward the direction of the outside of town. I
wonder where he wants to go.’
They are however acceptable with the stative imperfective zhe, with similar interpret-
ations as in the sentences with verbal ‑le in (35).
	 (40)	 a.	 Ta xian yang-zhe yi-tiao jinyu.
	 he first raise-zhe one-cl goldfish
	 ‘He is raising a goldfish first/for now.’
b.	 Wo (zai Boston) xian zu-zhe yi-jian gongyu.
	 I in Boston first rent-zhe one-cl apartment
	 ‘I am renting an apartment in Boston first/for now.’
c.	 Zhangsan (shou-li) ti-zhe yi-ge da pixiang.
	 Zhangsan hand-in carry-zhe one-cl big suitcase
	 ‘Zhangsan is carrying a big suitcase (in his hand).’
d.	 Ni kan, Lisi qi-zhe yi-pi ma wang cheng wai fangxiang zou,
	 you look Lisi ride-zhe one-cl horse toward town outside direction walk
	 bu zhidao ta yao qu nar.
	 not know he want go where
	
‘Look! Lisi is riding a horse toward the direction of the outside of town. I
wonder where he wants to go.’
The difference between zai and zhe is that zai focuses the internal stages of non-stative
situations and has a dynamic conceptual meaning, while zhe focuses on results and has
a static conceptual meaning (Smith 1994: 120, see also Li and Thompson 1981). The
fact that only zhe and not zai may be used to describe the imperfective situation sug-
gests that the continuative reading in (40), and by extension in (35), must be associated
with a stative situation and not with an activity (Wu 2005).18
This is consistent with
our analysis, as within our analysis, it is the result state (of an achievement) that con-
tinues, rather than the activity. In Lin’s (2003) analysis, given that it is the activity that
continues, it is unclear why the sentences cannot appear with the dynamic imperfec-
tive marker zai.
18.  This conclusion is independently arrived at in Wu (2005). Our analysis is similar to Wu’s.
Wu (2005) argues that verbs like yang ‘raise’ has a semantic that is similar to an RVC (Resultative
Verb Compound) or verbs like zuo ‘sit’ and chuan ‘wear’, with both an action part and a resulta-
tive state part. The perfective ‑le identifies the final end point of the action part and the initial
endpoint of the resultative part and locates it before a reference time. The default reference time
is the speech time. Given that the resultative state starts before the present time and nothing in
the context specifies its termination, we obtain the present continuative reading.
108	 Hooi Ling Soh and Mei Jia Gao
3.3  Summary
Given the discussion above, we conclude that verbal ‑le does not give rise to an inchoa-
tive or a continuative reading, and that it is not a realization marker.
4.  Implications and conclusions
Inthischapter,wehaveexaminedthemeaningofverbal ‑le,separatingentailmentsfrom
implicatures. On the basis of the semantic contributions of verbal ‑le, we claim that it is
a perfective aspect marker and not a realization marker.We have shown that verbal ‑le
does not occur in stative sentences, except when the states are bounded, and that it pro-
vides a terminative reading to an atelic event and a completive reading to a telic event.
	 Our analysis has implications for the debate on whether verbal ‑le is related to sen-
tential ‑le. Shi (1988, 1990), for example, argues that verbal ‑le and sentential ‑le are in-
stances of the same morpheme by citing similarities between these two instances of
‑le. Among the similarities that are cited are that like sentential ‑le, verbal ‑le may pro-
vide an inchoative reading and that they both may appear in stative sentences.We have
shown that both these assumptions are wrong. Although it remains possible that verbal
‑le and sentential ‑le are instances of the same morpheme, the present study has clarified
the differences between these two instances of ‑le that need to be addressed by those
who wish to analyze them as instances of the same morpheme. (See Soh 2006 for a re-
cent unified analysis of verbal ‑le and sentential ‑le, where differences between them are
argued to follow from their different syntactic positions.)
References
Bohnemeyer, Jurgen and Swift, Mary. 2001. “Default Aspect: The Semantic Interaction of As-
pectual Viewpoint and Telicity”, Proceedings of Perspectives on Aspect, Utrecht Institute of
Linguistics.
Chu, Chauncey C. 1976. “Some Semantic Aspects of ActionVerbs”. Lingua 40: 43–54.
Huang, Lillian Meei Jin and Davis, PhilipW. 1989. “An Aspectual System in Mandarin Chinese”.
Journal of Chinese Linguistics 17: 128–66.
Kang, Jian. 1999. The Composition of the Perfective Aspect in Mandarin Chinese. Doctoral Dis-
sertation, Boston University.
Kennedy, Chris and Levin, Beth. 2002. “Telicity Corresponds to Degree of Change”. Handout of
Paper presented at Georgetown University. February 4, 2002.
Klein, Wolfgang, Li, Ping and Hendriks, Henriette. 2000. “Aspect and Assertion in Mandarin
Chinese”. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 18: 723–70.
Li, Charles, and Thompson, Sandra. 1981. Mandarin Chinese: A Functional Reference Grammar.
Berkeley: University of California Press.
Lin, Jimmy. 2004. Event Structure and the Encoding of Arguments: The Syntax of the Mandarin
and English Verb Phrase, Doctoral Dissertation, MIT.
	 Verbal ‑le in Mandarin Chinese 109
Lin, Jo-Wang. 2000. “On the Temporal Meaning of theVerbal ‑le in Chinese”. Language and Lin‑
guistics 1: 109–33.
Lin, Jo-Wang. 2003. “Temporal Reference in Mandarin Chinese”. Journal of East Asian Linguis‑
tics 12: 259–311.
Liu, Xunning. 1988. “Xiandai Hanyu Ciwei ‘le’ deYufaYiyi”. ZongguoYuwen 5: 321–30.
Lü, Shuxiang (ed.). 1980. Xiandai Hanyu Babai Ci [Eight Hundred Modern Chinese Words],
Shangwu, Peking.
Rohsenow, John S. 1978. “Perfective le: Aspect and Relative Tense in Mandarin Chinese”, in R. L.
Cheng, Y. C. Li and T. C. Tang (eds.), Proceedings of Symposium on Chinese Linguistics, 269–
91. Taipei: Student Book Co.
Ross, Claudia. 1995. “Temporal and Aspectual Reference in Mandarin Chinese”. Journal of Chi‑
nese Linguistics 23: 87–135.
Rothstein, Susan. 2004. Structuring Events. Malden: Blackwell Publishing.
Shi, Ziqiang. 1988. The Present and Past of the Particle ‘le’ in Mandarin Chinese. Doctoral
­
Dissertation, University of Pennsylvania.
Shi, Ziqiang. 1990. “Decomposition of Perfectivity and Inchoativity and the Meaning of the Par-
ticle le in Mandarin Chinese”. Journal of Chinese Linguistics 18: 95–123.
Smith, Carlota S. 1994. “Aspectual Viewpoint and Situation Type in Mandarin Chinese”. Journal
of East Asian Linguistics 3: 107–46.
Smith, Carlota. 1997. The Parameter of Aspect (2nd Ed). Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publish-
ers.
Smith, Carlota and Erbaugh, Mary. 2002. “Temporal Interpretation in Mandarin Chinese”. Man-
uscript, University of Texas and University of Oregon.
Soh, Hooi Ling and Kuo, Jenny Yi-Chun. 2005. “Perfective Aspect and Accomplishment Situ-
ations in Mandarin Chinese”, in Perspectives on Aspect, Angeliek van Hout, Henriette de
Swart and Henk Verkuyl (eds), 199–216. Dordrecht: Springer.
Soh, Hooi Ling. 2006. “The Syntax and Semantics of Change/Transition: Evidence from Man-
darin Chinese”, A book volume of invited papers from an international workshop on The-
oretical and Cross-linguistics Approaches to the Semantics of Aspect, Bar-Ilan University,
Israel, to be published by John Benjamins.
Sybesma, Rint. 1997. “Why Chinese Verb le is a Resultative Predicate”. Journal of East Asian
Linguistics 6: 215–61.
Sybesma, Rint. 1999. The MandarinVP. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Tai, James H. Y. 1984. “Verbs and Times in Chinese: Vendler’s Four Categories”, in Papers from
the Parasession on Lexical Semantics, Chicago Linguistic Society, D. Testen, V. Mishra and
J. Drogo (eds), 20: 289–96.
Tham, Shiao-Wei and Soh, Hooi Ling. 2006. “Discourse Effects of Lexical Specification: the Case
of the Mandarin Aspectual Particle ‑le”, in Proceedings of KONVENS 2006, Miriam Butt
(ed.), 181–8. Konstanz, Germany: University of Konstanz.
Wu, Jiun-Shiung. 2005. “The Semantics of the Perfective le and its Context-Dependency: An
SDRT Approach”. Journal of East Asian Linguistics 14: 299–336.
Wu, Zoe Xiu-Zhi. 2000. Grammaticalization and the Development of Functional Categories in
Chinese. Doctoral Dissertation, University of Southern California.
Zhang, Qing. 1997. “The Semantics of the Verbal Suffix ‑le and Sentence Final ‑le”. Qualifying
Paper, Stanford University.
part ii
Pragmatics and Reference
chapter 6
Knowing who’s important
Relative discourse salience
and Irish pronominal forms*
Ann E. Mulkern
University of Minnesota
1.  Introduction
The main premise of the theory outlined in Gundel, Hedberg, and Zacharski (1993)
(hereafter GHZ) is that different determiners and pronominal forms of a language con-
ventionally signal different cognitive statuses. What this means is that these linguistic
expressions indicate information about memory location and attention state with re-
gard to the mental representations of discourse entities, thereby enabling the addressee
of an utterance to restrict the set of possible referents that a particular expression might
indicate. To explain the relation between referring forms and conditions for their ap-
propriate use and interpretation across languages, GHZ propose the Givenness Hier-
archy, a set of six implicationally related cognitive statuses. Each status on the hierarchy
is a necessary and sufficient condition for appropriate use of a different linguistic form
or set of forms, and each status also entails all lower statuses. The interaction of the Gi-
venness Hierarchy with a theory of conventional use and conversational implicature,
such as the Maxim of Quantity (Grice 1975) or Relevance Theory (Sperber and Wilson
1986/1995), accounts for the actual distribution and interpretation of referring forms
when the necessary conditions for more than one form are met. In their seminal work
outlining the theory, GHZ also demonstrate that the Givenness Hierarchy is useful for
describing appropriate use of articles, demonstratives and pronominals in a number of
typologically varied languages, although not all of the six statuses are distinguished in
each language by separate linguistic forms. In Mulkern (2003), I show that the Given-
ness Hierarchy is also useful for describing the use of nominal expressions in another
language, typologically different from those previously studied, namely Irish. Table 1
 
*  This paper is revised from part of my dissertation (Mulkern 2003). Some of the central ide-
as were originally presented in Stenson and Mulkern (1994), so I gratefully acknowledge Nan-
cy Stenson’s considerable contributions to the foundation of this work. I also thank Michael
­
Hegarty for helpful discussion, and I am grateful to the editors of this volume and to an an-
onymous reviewer for thoughtful comments and suggestions to improve this paper. All short-
comings are my responsibility.
114	 Ann E. Mulkern
shows the statuses of the Givenness Hierarchy proposed by GHZ, illustrated with ex-
amples of the relevant determiners and pronominals which conventionally signal the
different statuses in English and in Irish.
	 Note that Irish is like English in distinguishing all six statuses with separate forms.
Of particular interest, though, is the wealth of pronominal forms of Irish whose func-
tions have traditionally been difficult to distinguish or characterize precisely. Table 2
illustrates the full pronominal paradigms for three of the different pronoun forms of
Irish. The leftmost paradigm in Table 2 shows the basic, or simplex, pronominal forms.
This simplex form may be augmented by the addition of a suffix, illustrated by the para-
digm in the middle column of Table 2, or by the addition of the morpheme féin (‘self’),
shown by the paradigm in the column on the right.
In addition, for third-person pro-
.  For the purposes of the analysis presented here, the term ‘simplex pronoun’ also includes the
null pronominals (see n. 1).
.  The same augmentation is applied to inflected prepositions and verbs. For example, the sim-
plex form of the preposition ag ‘at’ inflected for first-person singular is agam, with augmented
forms agamsa and agam féin.
	 There is another pronominal form which combines the two augmented pronominal forms
from Table 2: mise mé féin, tusa tú féin, etc. Use of this pronominal form, which Ó Siadhail
(1989) calls ‘emphatic contrastive grade,’ is less common and did not occur at all in the data used
in my study. It therefore will not be under discussion here.
Table 1.  The Givenness Hierarchy (Gundel, Hedberg, and Zacharski 1993)
in focus > activated > familiar > uniquely >
identifiable
referential >type
identifiable
English she this N
that
this
she
that N the N this N a N
Irish sí~Ø an N seo
sin	
seo
siúd
sí~Ø+se
sí~Ø féin
sí~Ø sin
an N úd
an N sin
an N an N seo Ø N
Note: The representative pronominal form illustrating the Givenness Hierarchy in Table 1 for both Eng-
lish and Irish is the third singular feminine nominative form.As indicated by‘~’, overt pronominals in
Irish generally occur in complementary distribution with null pronominal forms,used when a verb or
preposition is inflected for person and number.When a pronoun is the object of a preposition,the in-
flected preposition is obligatory,and it must co-occur with the null pronominal.Inflected verb forms also
co-occur with null pronominals,but use of an inflected form (vs.a verb and subject pronoun) is not ob-
ligatory.Additionally,verb inflection in Modern Irish is found only for particular combinations of tense,
mood,and aspect,and even then does not occur with all person–number combinations.Use of inflected
verb forms also varies across dialects.
	 Relative discourse salience and Irish pronominal forms 115
nouns only, an augmented form can be made by adding one of the demonstrative pro-
nouns, seo, sin or siúd (proximal, medial, and distal, respectively) to the simplex form,
as illustrated in (1). These are the forms typically used for non-human referents, though
they are used for reference to human entities as well.
(1)
sé/é
seo
sí/í
seo
siad/iad
seo
sin sin sin
siúd siúd siúd
	 There are a few formal characteristics which at least partially distinguish the simplex
pronouns in Table 2 from all of the augmented forms in Table 2 and (1), and these are
largely correlated with the fact that the simplex pronouns are associated with the status
in focus on the Givenness Hierarchy, as seen from Table 1, while all of the augment-
ed forms are associated with the status activated.
But cognitive status alone cannot
distinguish among the augmented forms of Table 2 and (1), which can all be used in
contexts where a stressed pronoun would be used in English. Traditional grammars of
Irish provide little or no help in distinguishing among the forms, either, although ob-
servations made in some of these grammars indicate that the different pronoun forms
are associated with a difference in some property or properties of the referents in the
discourse. Based on a study of naturally occurring Irish data from a variety of spoken
and written sources, I propose that the distinction between the various pronominal
.  For instance, the simplex forms are typically unstressed, and in subject position are cliticized
to the verb, while the suffixed forms in Table 2 typically have initial syllable stress, and the other
augmented forms in that table and (1) have stress on the added morpheme (e.g., féin or sin).
Also, there are two syntactic environments in which the distribution of the simplex forms differs
from that of the augmented forms: in conjoined NPs, only an augmented pronoun can occur,
while for an object pronoun in postposed position, only the simplex form can occur.
Table 2.  Irish pronominal paradigms
number/person simplex augmented
sing 	 1
	 2
	 3fem
	 3masc
mé
tú/(thú)
sí/í
sé/é
mise
túsa
sise/ise
seisean/eisean
mé féin
tú/(thú) féin
sí/í féin
sé/é féin
plur 	1
	 2
	 3
muid|sinna
sibh
siad/iad
muidne|sinne
sibhse
siadsan/iadsan
muid féin|sinn féin
sibh féin
siad/iad féin
a  The choice between muid and sinn (indicated in the table with‘|’) is dialectal.Muid,the form typical
of Connemara Irish and related dialects,is the form which occurs in most of the data examined for this
study.The alternation between third-person forms with and without initial s (indicated in the table with
‘/’),on the other hand,is related to Case.Pronominal forms with s are nominative,used for subjects of
tensed verbs.Forms without initial s are accusative; they are also used as the default case for subjects of
untensed clauses,the copula,and those that are displaced (e.g.,through clefting).In some dialects a simi-
lar distinction,though less rigidly observed,is found for the second-person singular form,where the
nominative is tú,and the accusative/default form is thú.
116	 Ann E. Mulkern
forms lies in what they signal about the salience of their referents in the discourse rela-
tive to other entities. Specifically, I argue that the suffixed pronominal form is used to
signal that the salience of its referent is equal to or less than another entity in the dis-
course. The pronominal form augmented with féin, on the other hand, is used to signal
the promotion of its referent to the most salient position relative to other entities in the
discourse, or to signal that the referent remains the most salient one among activated
discourse referents. The differences between these two pronominal types is thus remi-
niscent of an obviation system, in which nominal expressions for third-person refer-
ents encode information about the relative salience of their referents. In Irish, though,
this kind of salience signaling is available for expressions pertaining to first and second-
person referents as well as third-person referents. The pronoun form augmented with
a demonstrative (the paradigm in (3)) is similar in function to the suffixed pronoun, in
that it is used to signal that the referent is relatively equal or less inherently salient than
another entity, but usually with respect to an additional deictic factor, such as time (e.g.,
‘then’ vs.‘now’) or of location (e.g., ‘there’ vs. ‘here’), either physical location or location
in the discourse.
	 I begin in §2 with a brief discussion of the accounts of these pronominal forms in
traditional grammars of Irish. In §3, I discuss relative discourse salience, and in par-
ticular motivations for imposing salience on a discourse referent. Then in §4, I show
how this notion is useful for distinguishing among the Irish pronominal forms.
2.  Traditional accounts
Many of the traditional grammars of Irish, both pedagogical and reference, make little
or no attempt to explain the differences in the use or function of the different pronoun
forms. For instance, de Bhaldraithe (1953: 140–1, 157–8) simply describes both types
in Table 2 as forainm treise (‘strong pronoun’). Other grammars attempt to characterize
the distinction on the basis of terminology which is vague and confusing. For example,
O’Rathaille (1932), describes the suffixed pronominals as emphatic, while Ó Cadhlaigh
(1940) simply uses the term treisiú (‘strengthening’) to characterize these same forms.
On the other hand, Ó Siadhail (1980, 1989: 228) and Ó Searcaigh (1954) characterize
these forms as marking contrast, while those augmented with féin are described as in-
dicating emphasis. The only attempt at a detailed description of the usage patterns or
functions associated with the various forms is that of the Christian Brothers (1960),
but this account is inadequate as well, for although the various forms in Table 2 and (1)
are described as having distinct uses, discussion of the conditions for the use of each
type shows considerable overlap. For example, the suffixed forms in the table are de-
scribed as marking contracht (‘contrast’) or fritéis (‘opposition’), but if the second elem-
ent of a contrastive pair is omitted, then emphasis (treisiú) is what is at issue. The de-
monstrative forms in (1) are described as sometimes marking opposition as well, when
two referents of the same person, number and gender are being contrasted, while the
	 Relative discourse salience and Irish pronominal forms 117
forms with féin are described as referring to the most important individual in a group.
For the most part, however, examples used in the discussion by the Christian Brothers
(1960) are devoted to demonstrating the optionality of using any of these augmented
forms, even in cases of clear contrast.
	 In fact, examples from naturally occurring data reveal that all of the pronoun forms
are used as referring expressions in utterances that seem intuitively to involve contrast,
as the examples in (2)–(4) illustrate.
	 (2)	 Níl sé dul a’ dhéanamh a leithéid.
neg.be.pres he go(-prog) prt do its like.
  Tú féin atá fáil íoctha is ní mise.
(cop.pres) you rel.be.pres get(-prog) paid and neg.cop.pres me
‘He’s not going to do any such thing. It’s you who’s getting paid and not me.’
[Antoine Ó Flatharta. 1986. Gaeilgeoirí :34]
	 (3)	 Is tú a deir agus ní hé Dia, a dhoctúir.
cop.pres you rel say and neg.cop.pres it God voc doctor.voc
‘It’s you that says so and not God, doctor.’
[Breandán Ó hEithir. 1977.Willie the Plain Pint agus an Pápa: 18]
	 (4)	 … go mbíonn gach uile dhream ach na Sasanaigh sásta a
  cmp be.pres-hab every group but the.pl English content prt
admháil go ndearna siad dearmad in am éigin. Bíonn siad siúd
admit cmp made.pa they mistake in time some be.pres-hab they that
ceart go fiú nuair is léir don dall iad a bheith go huile
right even when cop.pres clear to-the blind them prt be wholly
agus go hiomlán as bealach
and fully out-of way
‘… that every group but the English is willing to admit that they made a mistake
at some time. They are right when it is clear even to the blind that they are total-
ly out of line.’ [Breandán Ó hEithir. 1977.Willie the Plain Pint agus an Pápa: 42]
.  Ó Searcaigh (1954) also makes the observation that the use of a pronoun with féin indicates
that there is some connection between the pronoun and something that was or is under discus-
sion, or is understood in the conversation.
.  The data for this study comes from a variety of written and spoken sources from all three of the
major dialects of Irish. Sources include plays; essays; a published trip journal; articles from An Te‑
anga Bheo, the weekly Irish language column of the Irish Times; An t-Eolaí, an Irish language sci-
ence digest; websites; postings to the e-mail discussion list GAELIC-L from people who identified
themselves as native speakers of Irish; personal letters; radio programs; transcripts of oral narra-
tives from the archive of the Department of Irish Folklore at University College Dublin; and tran-
scripts of recorded interviews with native Irish speakers in America, for which I did the transcrip-
tion. I am extremely grateful to Nancy Stenson for access to many of these sources, and to John
Fitzgerald, who gave me access to the material from the UCD Department of Irish Folklore.
118	 Ann E. Mulkern
	 Additionally, it should be clear from these examples that whatever properties or
functions ‘contrast’ and ‘emphasis’ are intended to characterize with respect to the Irish
pronominals, they are independent of whether the pronominal referent is the topic or
the focus of the sentence. Notice that in the examples in (2) and (3), where the cleft con-
structions mark the pronominal arguments as the foci of their respective sentences, the
clefted constituent is expressed by both simplex and augmented forms. In (4), on the
other hand, the referent of siad siúd (that is, the English) is a contrastive topic. Other
examples of augmented pronouns which express sentence topics are shown in (5)–(7).
	 (5)	 a.	 … B’ait an bheirt iad: ise ag siúl
	  cop.pa-strange the two-people them her-contr walk-prog
	 go ropánta ag luascadh a géaga;
	 prt vigorous swing-prog her limbs
	 … eisean trí choischéim ina diadh…
	  he-contr three steps behind-her
	
‘They were a strange pair: she walking vigorously swinging her limbs;…
he three steps behind her…’
	 [Breandán Ó hEithir. 1977.Willie the Plain Pint agus an Pápa: 22]
b.	 I saw Mary and John yesterday. She says hello, but he’s still angry at you.
	 [Lambrecht 1994: 291, ex. 3.20b]
c.	 [Roommates Hanako and Mary discussing household chores]
	 H:	 Mary-san, anata-wa osoji shite kudasai,
		 Mary-voc you-top cleaning do please
		 watashi-wa oryori shimasu kara.
		 I-top cooking do conj
	 ‘H:	Mary, you do the cleaning, I’ll do the cooking.’
	 [Lambrecht 1994: 292, excerpted from ex. 5.53]
In (5a), the Irish suffixed pronouns ise and eisean, which are the subjects of different
small clauses, code referents which are contrastive topics. Similar examples of contras-
tive topics in English and Japanese (from Lambrecht 1994) are shown in (5b) and (5c),
respectively, for comparison. The stressed English pronouns she and he in (5b) also
code contrastive topics, as do the Japanese pronouns anata and watashi, marked with
the topic suffix -wa, in (5c). The examples in (6) and (7) illustrate the use in Irish of two
different kinds of augmented pronouns to code the topic referents in the topic-marking
construction, maidir le… (‘as for…’).
	 (6)	 Maidir liom féin, tá mé ag coinneáil ag imeacht.
like with-me emph be.pres I keep-prog leave-prog
‘As for me, I’m getting along.’ [SMS, letter]
	 (7)	 Maidir linne anseo, tá cúrsaí Gaeilge ag dul ar aghaidh sách
like with-us here be.pres matters Irish go-prog forward enough
	 Relative discourse salience and Irish pronominal forms 119
sástúil, a lán ranganna thart ar Bhoston.
satisfactory its fill classes around on Boston
‘As for us here, Irish matters are progressing satisfactorily, lots of classes
around Boston.’  [SMS, letter]
From the examples in (2)–(7), we can see that the difference in the use of the pronom-
inal forms in Irish is not simply correlated with a difference in the information status
of the referent, since any of the forms can be used to code a referent that is the sentence
topic, and any can be used to code a referent that is the focus of the sentence. Moreover,
descriptions of these pronouns in the various grammars of Irish cited here provide lit-
tle help in explaining the differences in meaning or function of the different forms. Al-
most no attempt is made to provide an explanation beyond mere terminological differ-
entiation, with ‘emphasis’ and ‘contrast’ the most commonly employed terms, but these
terms are used inconsistently and imprecisely. Nevertheless, the observations made in
these treatments seem to indicate that the different pronoun forms are associated with
a difference in the salience of their referents in the discourse relative to other discourse
entities.
3.  Relative discourse salience
At any particular point in the discourse, each of the entities in the discourse and in the
discourse context has a degree of salience relative to that of other discourse entities. But
as discussed in Clamons, Mulkern, and Sanders (1993) and Mulkern (2003), it is useful
to distinguish between two different types of discourse salience: inherent salience, hav-
ing to do with the centrality of the entity in the discourse (its “aboutness” with respect
to the discourse), as determined by the history of the discourse up to this point; and im-
posed salience, having to do with the amount of prominence or foregrounding given to
an entity for the purpose of signaling how the speaker intends the hearer to subsequent-
ly rank discourse entities relative to one another. Inherent salience is largely equivalent
to cognitive status; an entity that is in focus, for example, is relatively more inherently
salient in the discourse than an entity that is merely activated. But discourse entities
that can be assumed to have the same cognitive status may have different degrees of sa-
lience relative to one another, due to various syntactic, semantic and pragmatic char-
acteristics.
The notion of inherent salience is also essentially the same as the notion of
relative salience that is a central assumption of Centering Theory as outlined inWalker,
Joshi, and Prince (1998). The difference is that Centering Theory is limited to looking at
.  Characteristics which have been shown to be relevant to an entity’s inherent salience, for ex-
ample, are animacy (Dahl and Fraurud 1996); topicality or empathy (Kuno 1987); recency of
mention in the discourse (Ariel 1990); frequency of mention in the discourse (Gundel, Borthen,
and Fretheim 1999); and the grammatical function or thematic role with which the entity is as-
sociated (Givón 1984; Walker, Joshi, and Prince 1998).
120	 Ann E. Mulkern
the relative salience of entities that were referred to in the previous utterance, that is, all
entities that could potentially be in focus, while I take under consideration the relative
salience of all entities whose status is assumed to be at least activated for participants
in the discourse; for example, entities mentioned prior to the previous utterance, dis-
course participants (even if they have not been mentioned in the discourse), other en-
tities in the extralinguistic context, and propositions evoked by the utterance.
	 With imposed salience, on the other hand, the speaker is directing the hearer with
regard to how central an entity will be, or will continue to be, in the discourse. Both
crosslinguistically and within a given language, speakers have a range of linguistic
strategies available to them for imposing salience, including the use of prosody, mor-
phological marking, and specific syntactic constructions.
One such strategy relevant
to the discussion here involves the choice of referring expression. Generally, when a
speaker wishes to maintain the same relative salience for discourse entities, she will use
a referring expression which is associated on the Givenness Hierarchy with the cogni-
tive status that she assumes the entity has for the hearer.When she uses an expression
which is lower on the hierarchy than expected, then she imposes greater salience on
the entity by indicating to the addressee that (in Relevance theoretic terms) there are
additional contextual assumptions that the hearer should associate with the entity, and
therefore he should derive additional contextual effects. If, for example, an entity has
the status in focus at a particular point in the discourse, but the speaker uses a refer-
ring expression that is associated with a lower status, then additional effort is required
by the addressee to process this referring expression compared to what it would take to
process an expression that signals that the referent is in focus; the expectation on the
part of the addressee, then is that this effort will yield additional contextual effects; for
example, more information about the referent, or information about the speaker’s atti-
tude toward the referent.
3.1  Motivations for imposing salience
In imposing higher salience, the speaker directs the hearer to bring greater attention to
an entity, and there are obviously a number of reasons why one would choose to do this.
In particular, for entities that already have a relatively high degree of inherent salience,
those whose cognitive status is at least activated and possibly in focus, the purpose
of imposed salience is typically described as indicating ‘contrast’, ‘emphasis’, ‘focus’, or
‘unexpectedness’. But do these terms describe one discourse property or many? For ex-
ample, as noted in §2.0 with regard to traditional descriptions of the Irish pronoun
forms, sometimes ‘contrast’ and ‘emphasis’ are used interchangeably, that is, to denote
the same property, and sometimes they are intended to distinguish between different
.  This discussion is primarily concerned with the imposition of higher salience for a referent. A
speaker can choose to lower the salience of an entity as well, for example, by demoting the entity
syntactically or by dropping it from the discourse all together.
	 Relative discourse salience and Irish pronominal forms 121
properties. Likewise, Gundel (1994) shows that the term ‘focus’ is used in at least three
distinct linguistically relevant senses in the linguistic literature.
	 To summarize a more detailed discussion in Mulkern (2003), I argue that most of
the motivations for imposing salience on a referent can be grouped into two types, dif-
ferentiated by their effect on the subsequent overall salience of the referent relative to
other entities in the discourse. The two types are discussed in §3.1.1 and §3.1.2 below.
3.1.1  Contrast and related notions
The purpose of contrast is to partition a set of discourse entities with respect to some
semantic property P such that it is established (either via assertion or implicature) that
the value ‘true’ results when P is applied to one part of the set and ‘false’ or ‘unknown’
when applied to the other. The relevant set, abbreviated as the salient, semantically ap-
propriate (SalSA) set, is invoked from the set of discourse entities available in short
term memory, entities whose cognitive status is at least activated and possibly in fo-
cus. If they are not already at least activated in the discourse, then they must be
‘inferrable’ entities, in the sense defined in Prince (1981), meaning they can be con-
structed on the basis of other activated or in focus discourse entities and general
knowledge about the world.
In addition to being at least activated, they must be se-
mantically appropriate, meaning that it must be plausible for P to apply to them. Take,
for example, the conversation in (8).
	 (8)	 Greg:	 Did you have a test today?
Terry:	 Yes, and Joe and Paul took the same test.
Greg:	 How did you (guys) do?
Terry:	 I passed.
When Greg processes Terry’s second utterance in (8), there are a number of activated
discourseentities:speaker(Terry),hearer(Greg),Joe,Paul,thebiologytest,aswellasthe
propositions that result from the interpretation of the previous sentences, i.e. Terry took
abiologytest,Joetookabiologytest.ThepropertyPwhichpartitionsthesetisλx[passed(x,
test)], so the set of salient entities that are semantically appropriate is restricted to (at
least) activated individuals who took the test, namely {Terry, Joe, Paul}. Note that as a
participant in the discourse, Greg is also at least activated, and therefore among the sa-
lient discourse entities, but since the property λx[took(x, test)] doesn’t apply to him (and
this fact is mutually manifest to Terry and Greg), he isn’t part of the SalSA set.
.  An example of an inferrable entity is the referent of the flight attendant in the example in (i),
which can be inferred from the previous reference to the plane and the general knowledge that
there are flight attendants on commercial plane flights.
	 (i) The plane was late taking off, so the flight attendant gave us free drinks.
.  There may be partially ordered set (poset) relations definable on the discourse entities in the
SalSA set. Indeed, in the case of inferrable entities, their inclusion in the SalSA set is almost cer-
tainly due to a salient poset relation to one or more activated discourse entities in the SalSA set.
122	 Ann E. Mulkern
	 An assumption made here is that the effect that contrast has on the overall salience
of the entities in the SalSA set is to make them more inherently salient than other dis-
course entities, but relatively equal with respect to one another. Thus, for example in (8),
the use of the stressed personal pronoun I is expected to bring the speaker (Terry) into
about equal, but not greater, salience relative to Joe and Paul.
	 Similar to contrast is the imposition of salience to establish that members of the Sal-
SA set are parallel, meaning that the same value for some property P results when ap-
plied to each of them, as illustrated in (9).10
	 (9)	 C:	 Jamie likes ice cream.
A:	 I like ice cream (too).
The stressed pronoun I is used by A in (9) to establish that, for the two discourse enti-
ties (Jamie, the speaker), the same truth value will result for the property λx [likes (x, ice
cream)]. Another, similar purpose is one in which the value for some property or rela-
tion is established to be reciprocal with regard to the discourse entities, as illustrated
by the example in (10).
	 (10)	 It’s great having a roommatei who’s the same size as me, because I can wear
heri clothes. And shei can wear my clothes (too).
In (10), the stressed pronouns in the second sentence are used to establish that the val-
ue for the relation established by the assertion in the first sentence, that is
	 λyλx [∃ z [clothes (z) ∧ belong_to (z, y) ∧ wear(x,z)]]
where x=[speaker], y=roommate, is the same when the semantic roles of the entities are
reversed, that is x=roommate, y=[speaker].
	 A fourth purpose for imposing salience occurs when the SalSA set is partitioned ac-
cording to some scalar property, in which the property is established to be more appli-
cable to one part of the set than to the other part of the set. This comparison is illustrat-
ed by the examples in (11) and (12).
	 (11)	 Brad spent the whole day giving my dog a bath and a haircut. He cares more
about the dog than he does about me.
	 (12)	 You should ignore Johni’s opinion of your article on Internet security, because
hei knows less about the topic than you do.
In (11) it is asserted that P=λx [cares_about(Brad, x)] is more salient for x=the dog,
than it is for x=[speaker]. In (12), the speaker asserts that P=λx [knows_about(x, IS)]
These poset relations do not play a role in the partitioning of the set. (Cf. Ward and Hirschberg
(1985), Ward and Prince (1991) for a definition of posets and discussion of their relation to lin-
guistic form).
10.  Kehler (2002) defines similar notions of parallel and contrast for the purpose of explaining
discourse coherence across sentences.
	 Relative discourse salience and Irish pronominal forms 123
is less salient for x=John than for x=[addressee]. While unequal comparisons (for ex-
ample, more/less than) would be expected to result in greater salience for the entity with
which P is established to a greater degree, all other purposes for imposed salience dis-
cussed here, contrast, parallelism, and reciprocality, would be expected to result in rela-
tively equal salience for the discourse entities (other things being equal).
3.1.2  Emphasis and related notions
The primary motivation for other types of imposed salience, on the other hand, is to
make a referent the most salient entity relative to other entities in the discourse. Con-
texts in which imposed salience is used for emphasis, to increase the salience of a refer-
ent relative to other entities, include the establishment of the referent as the new topic
of the discourse, as illustrated by the constructed discourse in (13).
	 (13)	 S:	
My soni’s third birthday is on Friday, and we’re having a big party to cele­
brate.
A:	 Oh, hei must be really excited about that.
S:	 Yes, hei can’t wait.
While S’s son is introduced into the discourse in her first utterance in (13), his dis-
course salience is not as high as other entities in the discourse which are more semanti-
cally and syntactically prominent. But the use of the coreferential stressed pronoun in
A’s utterance is intended to establish him as the most salient entity, and as seen by S’s
second utterance, where the unstressed pronoun he is used, the discourse continues to
be about him.
	 Another context which similarly affects the relative salience of a referent is unex-
pectedness, as when the same entity is both the subject and object of a predicate whose
semantics indicate disjoint reference for subject and object arguments, as in (14).
	 (14)	 I’m voting for Buddy, because Georgei only cares about the policies that affect
him(self)i.
A third context is subjectivity, in which the referent is the source of the thoughts, feel-
ings or perspective being expressed. This is illustrated by the example in (15).11
11.  Note that in the English examples in (14) and (15) the choice of referring expression in-
cludes what Baker (1995) calls a Locally Free Reflexive (LFR). In English, and also French (Zribi-
Hertz 1995), the possibility of using a LFR is restricted to specific syntactic environments. In
other languages, including Turkish (Kornfilt 2001), Malay (Cole, Hermon, and Lee 2001) and
Irish, LFRs freely alternate with other pronominal referring expressions in virtually all syntactic
environments. Crosslinguistically, where the use of a LFR is possible, the choice of using such an
expression is assumed to depend on discourse considerations of the kind under discussion here.
See Mulkern (2003) and also Huang (2000, 2004) for summaries of the syntactic, semantic, and
pragmatic factors involved in regulating the distribution of pronominal expressions.
124	 Ann E. Mulkern
	 (15)	 … She left Morrisi alone in his office.
Hei sat down at the desk and opened the drawers. In the top right-hand
one was an envelope addressed to himselfi. [David Lodge, Changing Places
1975: 62; also in Zribi-Hertz (1989: 716, ex. 65)]
Thus, the two motivations for imposing salience discussed here can be seen to have dif-
ferent purposes. The purpose of contrast and related notions is to establish a partition
between members of the SalSA set, such that both parts remain relatively equally sali-
ent. The purpose of emphasis and related notions is to promote one discourse entity as
the most important relative to other discourse entities.
4.  Irish pronominals in discourse
Using the notions of inherent and imposed salience put forward in §3, I now examine
specific examples of the various augmented pronouns used in naturally occurring dis-
course with regard to the relative discourse salience of their referents. In §4.1, I look
at contexts in which the suffixed pronominals are used, and in §4.2, contexts in which
the pronominal augmented with féin occurs. In §4.3, I discuss the use of augmented
pronouns in contexts where the two different augmented forms are both used. Final-
ly, in §4.4, I look at examples of pronouns augmented with a demonstrative as used for
human referents.
4.1  Suffixed pronominals
The suffixed pronominal forms of Irish are generally used in the types of discourse
contexts discussed in §3.1.1, in which the speaker intends to bring the referent of the
pronominal into at most equal salience relative to another activated or inferrable en-
tity. The examples in (2) and (5a) showed the use of a suffixed pronoun to establish a
contrast between the referent of the pronoun and a previously mentioned entity. The
example in (16) is another illustration of the use of a suffixed pronominal to establish
a contrast. This example is an excerpt from a weekly Irish language radio program, in
which a panel of native Irish speakers, who represent the different major dialects of the
language, discusses a range of language and dialect issues. The discussion from which
(16) is taken is about Irish surnames derived from the names of animals, and the speak-
er is reading from a listener’s letter.
	 (16)	 … “Tá scéalta eile a thugann le fios go shil grupaí
  be.pres stories other rel bring to knowledge cmp think.pa groups
áirithe go raibh gaol idir iad agus na cait [kit′]” nó na [kæt’]
certain cmp be.pa relation between them and the.pl cats or the.pl
mar a deirfeása a Eilín, is dóigh, agus, ah, “tá go
as prt say-cond.2sg-contr voc E cop probable and be.pres
	 Relative discourse salience and Irish pronominal forms 125
leor leor eile” a deir sé …
many many others prt says he
‘…“There are other stories that give us to understand that certain groups think
there is a connection between them and the cats,” or the cats [different pro-
nunciation], as you would probably say, Eilín, and, ah, “there are many many
others,” he says…’  [Leagan Cainte , Raidio na Gaeltachta 4/19/02]
The speaker of (16) first reads the word cait (‘cats’) according to his native pronun-
ciation, then in an aside gives the same word a different pronunciation, which he at-
tributes to another member of the panel, a native speaker of a different dialect. The
aside is addressed to the other panelist using a verb inflected for second-person singu-
lar (deirfeá), augmented with the pronominal suffix. Although the addressee has not
been mentioned recently in the discourse, and therefore is not in focus, she is acti-
vated by virtue of being one of the panel participants and in the extralinguistic con-
text, so use of a referring form signaling activated status is appropriate. The speaker
of (16) attributes a pronunciation to the addressee which is in contrast to the pronun-
ciation established for the speaker by virtue of his utterance. There are at least two pos-
sible (and not mutually exclusive) contextual effects that the speaker intends as a result
of establishing the contrast. One is that pointing out the pronunciation contrast serves
to tie the discussion back to the overall topic of the radio program (dialect variations);
the other, given that the speaker has been doing all the talking (or reading) for several
minutes, is that bringing the addressee into attention may remind listeners that there
are other participants in the discourse. Nevertheless, the addressee is only temporarily
brought into attention here. She is not referred to again in the immediately following
discourse, and in fact the speaker resumes reading from the letter before turning to ad-
dress a different panelist.
	 The example in (17) illustrates the use of suffixed pronominals in utterances in which
the speaker establishes two different reciprocal relationships with respect to the rela-
tion λyλx[understand (x, humor_of(y)] for two sets of discourse referents. The discus-
sion from which (19) is taken concerns differences in language use, particularly in lan-
guage-related humor, between people who grew up in an Irish-speaking community
(Gaeltacht) and those who didn’t.
	 (17)	 … Má chastar Gaeilgeoir ort as an cheantar céanna anois,
  if meet-pres.aut Irish-speaker on-you from the district same now
nuair a bhím ag caint le Colmi, tuigim
when prt be.pres.hab-1sg talk-prog with Colm understand.pres.hab-1sg
ai chuid grinne Chonamara agus tuigeann seiseani mo
his part of-humor of-Connemara and understand.pres.hab he-contr my
ghreannsa ach greann Gaeilgeoirí Bhaile Átha Cliathj, ní
humor-contr but humor Irish-speakers of-Dublin neg
thuigim é. Well, ní thuigeann siadsanj an
understand.pres.hab-1sg it well neg understand.pres.hab they-contr the
126	 Ann E. Mulkern
grean dúinne, an dtuigeann tú?
humor for-us-contr int understand.pres.hab you
‘… If you meet an Irish speaker from the same district now, when I am talking
with Colmi, I understand hisi Connemara humor, and hei understands my
humor but the humor of Dublin Irish speakersj, I don’t understand it.Well,
theyj don’t understand the humor for us, know what I mean?’ [PÓC, taped
interview]
In (17), the adverbial phrase nuair a bhím ag caint le Colm (‘when I am talking with
Colm’) represents the presupposition for the clause (‘I understand his Connemara hu-
mor’) in which the first-person inflection on the verb represents the topic and the en-
tire predicate is the information focus (that is, information predicated about the top-
ic). Both the speaker and Colm probably have the cognitive status in focus at this
point (note the use of simplex forms for both referents in the first clause), but since
the speaker is the topic, and also the subject of the first sentence, the speaker is prob-
ably more inherently salient than the referent of Colm. In this sentence, the speaker
is asserting that λyλx[understand (x, humor_of(y)] yields a true proposition when ap-
plied to x=[speaker], y=Colm. In the next sentence, he asserts that the result is also
true for x=Colm, y=[speaker]; that is, that the relation is reciprocal for the set of dis-
course entities {[speaker], Colm}. Following that, the speaker shifts to a new topic, in-
dicated by the left-dislocated phrase ‘the humor of Dublin speakers,’ and asserts that
λyλx[understand (x, humor_of(y)] does not yield a true proposition on x=[speaker],
y=Dublin speakers. He then asserts that it also does not yield truth on x=Dublin speak-
ers, y=us, where ‘us’ refers minimally to the set {[speaker], Colm}, but may contain
other inferrable entities who also share the property of being from a Gaeltacht. Since
the discourse entity ‘Dublin speakers’ was introduced into the discourse in an oblique
argument position within the left-dislocated phrase, it is likely that the entity’s cogni-
tive status is activated but not in focus.12
Therefore, reference to the same entity in
the next sentence with siadsan, a form that signals merely activated status, is appro-
priate. However, the use of suffixed pronouns for both referents in each of the sentences
where the speaker establishes the reciprocal status of the discourse entities signals that
the two discourse entities are relatively equal with respect to the relation.
	 In the excerpt from an oral narrative given in (18), the suffixed pronominal forms are
used by the speaker in the narrative in establishing relatively equal salience overall for
the speaker and the addressee (his brother) in sentences that involve a comparison, a
contrast, and a parallel.
	 (18)	 (sic) Do chomharlaigh sé a dhriotháir fanúin i dteannta na máthar
  pa advise he his brother stay alongside the.gen mother.gen
12.  See, for example, GHZ for discussion of the role of grammatical function in determining
membership in the in-focus set, and Walker, Joshi, and Prince (1998) on the role of grammatical
function in ranking forward-looking centers in Centering Theory.
	 Relative discourse salience and Irish pronominal forms 127
go dtiochfadh sé thar n-ais. Ní d’fhanfadh mhaise! ars an sclábhaí,
cmp come.cond he back neg stay.cond indeed said the laborer
mar is mó do mheas aice ortsa ná fuil a
as cop.pres more.cpr of regard at-her on-you-contr neg.rel be.pres prt
dhéanamh aon nídh don tigh, ná mar atá aice ormsa
do any thing for-the house cpr as rel-be.pres at-her on-me-contr
atá ag obair ó dhubh dubh a d’íarraidh an bothán a
rel-be.pres work-prog from black black prt want the shack prt
choimeád, is mo cheann fúm sa dtígh ga’ haon lá eireóchaidh
maintain and my head under-me in-the house every one day rise
mé dom’ leabaidh, is má imthighir-se
I from-my bed and if leave.pres.hab.2sg-contr
imeóchad-sa leis.
leave.fut.1sg-contr with-it
‘…He asked his brother to stay with the mother until he would come back.
“No indeed!” said the laborer, “because she has more regard for you who is not
doing anything for the household, than she has for me, who is working from
dawn to dusk trying to maintain the house, and me supporting the house eve-
ry single day I rise from my bed, and if you are leaving, I will leave”…’  [Oral
narrative from the archives of the Department of Irish Folklore, University
College Dublin]
The character of the laborer, who is the speaker in (18), first establishes a comparison
between he and his brother with respect to the property λx[cares(mother, about(x))
to degree d], in which the speaker asserts that the value of d is greater for the address-
ee than for the speaker. But at the same time, he establishes a contrast between them
with respect to working to support the household. In the last clause of the utterance,
he asserts that both entities will result in the same value when the property λx[leave(x,
home)] is applied to them. The suffixed pronouns are used for both referents in estab-
lishing these semantic relationships to signal their relatively equal salience.
4.1.1  Alternation
The suffixed pronominals are also used in contexts in which there is an alternation or
turn-taking between discourse entities. Like contrast and the related notions discussed
in §3.1.1, alternation involves the partitioning of a SalSA set such that the property P
applies to each part of the set in turn. Consider, for example, the sentence in (19), from
the published diary of a transatlantic boat trip, in which the author is describing the
routine aboard the boat during the trip. Here the first person suffixed pronoun mise (‘I’)
is used to indicate the alternation or turn-taking between the speaker and another dis-
course entity in the daily routine.
128	 Ann E. Mulkern
	 (19)	 Oibríonn mise uair, Paddy uair, mise aríst, agus
work-pres.hab me-contr hour P hour me-contr again and
críochnaíonn Paddy.
finish-pres.hab P
‘I work an hour, Paddy an hour, me again, and Paddy finishes.’ [Colm Dubh Ó
Méalóid. 1986. Ar Bhád Conraí go Meiriceá: 46]
Both the referent of mise (‘I’) and Paddy are relatively equally salient as a result of the
utterance in (19).
	 Another context in which turn-taking between discourse entities is associated with
the use of the suffixed pronominal form is in recounting speaker turns in a conversa-
tion. An example of this is shown in (20), where the author of the trip diary is directly
recounting a conversation, and the first person suffixed pronoun mise serves to high-
light the fact that a shift of speaker has taken place, and also that a shift of speaker will
take place.
	 (20)	 Sa deireadh dúirt sí “An tú Coleman?”
in-the end say.pa she q.cop you C
“Dáríre is mé,” a deirimse.
indeed cop I prt say-pres.hab.1sg-contr
“Agus tú slán?”
and you safe
“Tá,” a deirimse.
be.pres prt say-pres.hab.1sg-contr
“Míle buíochas agus glóir do Dhia,” a dúirt sí.
thousand thanks and glory to God prt say.pa she
‘Finally she said, “Are you Coleman?”
“Indeed I am,” I said.
“And you’re safe?”
“I am,” I said.
“A thousand thanks and glory to God,” she said.’  [Colm Dubh Ó Méalóid.
1986. Ar Bhád Conraí go Meiriceá: 75]
	 What is particularly interesting about this example is that the first speaker is referred
to by an expression which signals that the referent is in focus (the simplex pronoun sí),
while the second speaker (the original addressee) is referred to with a form that signals
lower inherent salience for its referent. This is so in (20) even after the second referent
has been introduced into the discourse and could be expected to be in focus. Use of
the suffixed pronoun forms in these examples is thus reminiscent of obviation in lan-
guages which have an obviative system. As described by Huang (2000):
‘Within obviation, proximate and obviative (also frequently termed misleadingly third-
and fourth-person, respectively) are assigned to different third-person NPs on the ba-
sis of their relative salience in a discourse. In general, contextually and/or rhetorically
	 Relative discourse salience and Irish pronominal forms 129
more prominent NPs are encoded by means of proximate morphology; contextual-
ly and/or rhetorically less central NPs are placed in obviative form.’  [Huang (2000):
10]13
	 In Irish, the use of a pronominal form which indicates that its referent is less central
than another is available for first and second-person referents as well as the traditional
third person. An example of such usage for third-person referents is provided in (21),
which comes from a personal letter. The letter writer is discussing the status of a paper
he and the addressee co-authored. An influential colleague, B, who read the paper, rec-
ommended talking toW, the editor of a journal in which it might be published.
	 (21)	 Is dóigh liom go bhfuil seans maith ann go nglacfaidh sé
cop.pres likely with-me cmp be.pres chance good there cmp accept.fut he
leis do ZCP ach níor mhaith liom an scéal a bhrú go dtí
with-it for but neg.cond.cop good with-me the story prt press until
go mbeadh an t-alt uilig léite aige.
cmp be.cond the article complete read-pp at-him
Dúirt B liom go bhfuil seisean sásta lena bhfuil léite aige.
say.pa to-me cmp be.pres he-contr happy with-rel be.pres read-pp at-him
‘It seems to me that there’s a good chance he [W] will accept it for ZCP, but I
wouldn’t like to push the issue until he has read the whole article. B told me
that he is satisfied with what he has read.’ [PÓC, letter]
B is the referent of the suffixed pronominal seisean in the second sentence in (21). Since
B is also the subject and topic of the main clause in that sentence, one would expect the
referent of B to be in focus as the subject of the subordinate clause, but the pronoun
used to refer to B is one which implicates (e.g., via interaction of the Givenness Hier-
archy with the first part of Grice’s Quantity Maxim) that the referent is not in focus.
The most likely explanation for the use of the suffixed pronoun seisean to refer to B is
because there is another highly salient referent here; namely W, the editor of the jour-
nal, who was the entity in focus and at the center of attention in the previous sentence.
There are thus two highly salient third-person discourse entities, and with respect to the
discussion of whether or not the paper is approved for publication, B actually has rela-
tively lower status; that is, his opinion is less significant than that of the journal editor.
	 A slightly different type of alternation is illustrated by the example in (22), from a
message on an e-mail discussion list, in which the author gives her review of a movie
she’s just seen.
	 (22)	 (sic)Theise a fheiceail,nilim cinnteanbhfuil moladh
  after itprtsee neg.be.pres.1sgsure q be.presrecommendation
tuilte aige no nach bhfuil. Ta se seafoideach, aifeiseach, daft is
deserved at-it or neg.q be.pres be.pres it foolish ridiculous daft and
13.  Huang (2000) states that obviation is found in Algonquian (Blackfoot, Cree, and Fox);
Apachean (Navajo); Eskimo; Keresan; and Kutenai.
130	 Ann E. Mulkern
dochreidthe, ach sin mar ata na leabhra freisin. Go bhfuil
unbelievable but that as rel-be.pres the.pl books also cmp be.pres
splanc an ioroin in easnamh ann an locht is mo ata air, ach
spark the irony in shortage there the fault cop big.spr rel-be.pres on-it but
mar sin fein bhi meangadh gaire brea appreciative ormsa
nevertheless be.pa smile fine appreciative on-me-contr
ag fagail an leirithe.
leave-prog the production
‘After seeing it, I’m not sure whether it deserves a recommendation or not. It
is foolish, ridiculous, daft and unbelievable, but that’s how the books are, too.
The biggest fault with it is that it lacks the spark of irony, but I wore an appre-
ciative smile nevertheless leaving the production.’ [GAELIC-L discussion list]
	 It is possible that the suffixed pronoun in (22) is being used like those in the examples
in (19)–(20), to establish a contrast between the referent of the pronoun and other
members of an inferable SalSA set (that is, other moviegoers) with respect to wearing
a smile. However, I think its real function in (22) is to mark an alternation between the
information in the entire clause (‘I wore a smile…’) and the information in the preced-
ing clause. In the first sentence of (22), the writer notes her ambivalent feelings about
the movie. She then alternates between criticism: the movie is foolish and unbelievable;
and recommendation: the books are, too, so if you like the books, perhaps that’s a rec-
ommendation. Criticism: it lacks a sense of irony; recommendation: she was smiling
when she left the theater.
4.1.2  Topic shift
Finally, the examples in (23) and (24) show the use of a suffixed pronominal when in-
dicating a shift to a new discourse topic. The example in (23) is the opening sentence of
an essay. Not only is there no explicit discourse entity with which the referent of mise
in (23) is being contrasted, but it is difficult to infer such an entity from the context. If
there is a contrast being established here, as implied by the focus marker fiú (‘even’), it
is between a different time (i.e., when the author was growing up) and now. In (24) the
author has just shifted from talking about the diary he kept of a transatlantic sailing trip
to a new paragraph providing background information on himself, before beginning
the diary proper. In both cases, the suffixed pronoun is used to refer to information that
is considered “background,” and therefore less central.
	 (23)	 Fiú san am a raibh mise ag éirí suas i mo bhuachaill, bhí
even in-the time rel be.pa I-contr rise-prog up in my boy be.pa
na seandaoine ag rá nach raibh na misin chomh maith agus
the.pl old-people say-prog neg.cmp be.pa the.pl missions as good and
a bhídís ná na misinearaí chomh holc ach oiread.
rel be.pa.3pl nor the.pl missionaries as bad either

‘Even in the time that I was a boy growing up, the old folks were saying that
	 Relative discourse salience and Irish pronominal forms 131
the missions weren’t as good as they used to be nor the missionaries as bad
either.’  [Breandán Ó hEithir. 1977.Willie the Plain Pint agus an Pápa:105]
	 (24)	 Rugadh mise sna Corranaí i gCamus Uachtar sa
bear.pa-aut me-contr in-the C in Camus Upper in-the
mbliain 1941
year 1941

‘I was born in C. in Upper Camus in 1941…’  [Colm Dubh Ó Méalóid. 1986.
Ar Bhád Conraí go Meiriceá: 9]
	 The examples in (16)–(24) show a range of contexts in which the suffixed pronom-
inal forms are used. These include utterances which establish a contrastive, parallel, or
reciprocal relation between the referent of the pronoun and some other entity. Addi-
tionally, they are used in contexts where there is an alternation or turn-taking between
discourse entities.What all of these uses have in common is marking a discourse entity
as relatively equal to or less inherently salient than another at the given point in the dis-
course. As is usually the case with a form that signals activated status for its referent,
the suffixed pronominal implicates that its referent is not in focus (though the impli-
cature can be canceled; in (21), for example, the referent of the suffixed pronominal ac-
tually is in focus). But in addition, the suffixed pronominal typically implicates that its
referent will not be in focus (though again, this implicature can be canceled).
4.2  Pronominals with féin
The Irish pronominal with féin is identical in form to the reflexive pronominal in
Irish, and thus is an example of what Baker (1995) calls a Locally Free Reflexive (LFR).
Crosslinguistically, including, for example, French (Zribi-Hertz 1995) and English
(Cantrall 1974; Baker 1995), LFRs are frequently used to denote subjectivity, indicat-
ing that the referent is the individual whose viewpoint or perspective is being repre-
sented in the discourse. The Irish pronominal with féin (LFR) frequently occurs in the
same sort of contexts, as illustrated by the examples in (25) and (26). In each of these
examples, the use of a LFR signals a shift in the discourse to the referent’s perspective,
where the referent is the subject of a verb of saying, thinking, or believing.
	 (25)	 Is deacair do dhuine ar bith a rá cé mar a chuaigh an cogadh mór i
cop difficult for person any prt say how rel go.pa the war big in
gcion air mar dhuine agus mar scríbhneoir. Measaim féin
effect on-him as person and as writer think-pres.hab.1sg emph
nár tháinig sé ón uafás go hiomlán ariamh …
neg.rel come.pa he from-the horror entirely ever
‘It’s difficult for anyone to say how the great war affected him as a man and as
a writer. I myself think that he never entirely got over the horror.’  [Breandán
Ó hEithir. 1977.Willie the Plain Pint agus an Pápa: 72]
132	 Ann E. Mulkern
	 (26)	 Casann sé ceol go réasúnta ar an bhfeadóg stáin agus mar a deir
play-pres.hab he music reasonably on the whistle tin and as rel say
sé féin tá sé ag foghlaim ar na píopaí.
he emph be.pres he learn-prog on the.pl pipes
‘He plays music reasonably well on the tin whistle and as he himself says, he
is learning the pipes.’  [Colm Dubh Ó Méalóid. 1986. Ar Bhád Conraí go
Meiriceá: 18]
	 In (25), the author has shifted from reporting about the life of the writer Liam Ó
Flaithearta, to expressing his personal opinion about him. Similarly, while the referent
of the LFR in the example in (26) is not the speaker, it is clear that the LFR indicates a
shift of perspective from the outside narrator’s point of view to that of the referent.
4.2.1  Topic shift
The use of a LFR in Irish can also function to establish a new discourse entity as the top-
ic of the discourse, as illustrated by the dialogue in (27).
	 (27)	 [Helen has been praising a local politician.]
Nina:	 Déarfá go dtoghfar é?
	 say-cond.2sg cmp elect-fut.aut him
Helen:	 Oh no bother. Tá sé istigh.
	  be.pres he in
Kevin:	 Seans gur tú fhéin an election agent atá aige.
	 chance cmp-cop you emph the election agent rel-be.pres at-him
Helen:	 Ah well… we don’t go in for fancy titles around here
	 ach, you know, I do my bit.
	 but
‘Nina: You’d say that he’ll be elected?
Helen: Oh no bother. He’s in.
Kevin: You’re probably his election agent.
Helen: Ah well… we don’t go in for fancy titles around here but, you know, I
do my bit.’
[Antoine Ó Flatharta. 1986. Imeachtaí na Saoirse:14]
As is clear from the context in (27), it is not the perspective of Helen, the referent of the
LFR tú fhéin, that is being represented, but that of Kevin, the speaker. Like the example
in (27), the examples in (28) and (29) also illustrate the use of a LFR to refer to a dis-
course entity whose cognitive status is currently activated, by virtue of the entity be-
ing a discourse participant, but not in focus, since in each case the preceding sentence
has been about a different discourse entity. But the referent of the LFR subsequently be-
comes the entity at the center of the discourse. In other words, in these contexts the LFR
serves to establish its referent as the most inherently salient discourse entity.
	 Relative discourse salience and Irish pronominal forms 133
	 (28)	 … agus lig sé a scíth agus d’imigh sé leis aríst. Tosaigh (sic)
  and let.pa he his rest and leave.pa he with-him again start.pa
mé féin ag casadh ar an mbosca ceoil.
I emph play-prog on the box music.gen
‘… and he [seagull] took a rest and left again. I started to play the
accordian.’  [Colm Dubh Ó Mealoid. 1986. Ar Bhád Conraí go Meiriceá: 32]
	 (29)	 Tá gach duine go maith anseo. Tá mé féin uaigneach fós.
be.pres every person well here be.pres me emph lonely still
‘Everyone is fine here. I am still lonely. [NMD, letter]
These examples all involve a shift of attention in the discourse to a different entity from
the one that was the topic of the previous sentence. Thus, each of the LFRs in (27)–(29)
is being used to refer to an entity that is a contrastive topic. However, this is only be-
cause contrast arises as a contextual effect of the utterance; the purpose of the utterance
is not to establish a contrast between two entities as it was, for instance, in the example
in (5). It is thus interesting to note here the difference in the use of the different pro-
nominal forms in the topic-marking constructions in (6) and (7), repeated as (30) and
(31). In (30), where the referent of the LFR liom féin (‘me’) in the left-dislocated phrase
indicates a shift of topic, the referent becomes the center of attention in the main clause.
In (31), on the other hand, the use of the suffixed pronoun linne (‘us’) also indicates a
shift of topic, but it is not the referent of the suffixed pronoun that becomes the dis-
course topic.
	 (30)	 Maidir liom féin, tá mé ag coinneáil ag imeacht.
like with-me emph be.pres I keep-prog leave- prog
‘As for me, I’m getting along.’ [SMS, letter]
	 (31)	 Maidir linne anseo, tá cúrsaí Gaeilge ag dul ar aghaidh sách
like with-us here be.pres matters Irish go-prog forward enough
sástúil, a lán ranganna thart ar Bhoston.
satisfactory its fill classes around on Boston
‘As for us here, Irish matters are progressing satisfactorily, lots of classes
around Boston.’  [SMS, letter]
4.2.2  Proximation
In other contexts, the LFR functions to mark the referent that is contextually or rhetori-
cally the most prominent, much like the marking of proximate in an obviation system.
Examples of this for third-person referents are shown in (32)–(33). In the example in
(32), there are two third-person male referents who are at least activated in the dis-
course, the referent of an t-ábhar sagairt (‘the seminarian’) and his brother. The LFR sé
féin is used in (32) to refer to the seminarian, who, as the subject and topic of the sen-
tence, is the most highly salient of the two.
134	 Ann E. Mulkern
	 (32)	 Do thagadh an t-ábhar sagairt abhaile anois is aríst agus deireadh sé
pa come the material priest.gen home now and again and say.cond he
lena dhriotháir i gcómhnuí, aire mhaith a thabhairt dá mháthair
to-his brother in confidence care good prt give to-his mother
agus ná dearmhódadh sé féin é ar ball.
and neg forget.cond he emph it later
‘The seminarian came home now and again and he would say to his broth-
er in confidence, to take good care of his mother and he wouldn’t forget it
later.’  [Oral narrative, UCD Department of Irish Folklore]
Similarly, the LFR é féin, which is used as the subject of the copula both alone and in
the coordinated NP é fhéin is a mhuintir (‘himself and his family’), is used to refer to
an scolaire bocht (‘the poor scholar’) who is the subject and topic of each of the senten-
ces in (33).
	 (33)	 Lar na mháireach d’imigh an scoláire bocht, is do bhain sé amach tigh
day on its next-day pa-leave the scholar poor and pa reach he out house
an tsagairt, is do chuir sé in úil é féin, is dúirt sé
the.gen priest.gen and pa put he in knowledge him emph and say.pa he
gur sagart óg é féin a bhí tacaithe abhaile; agus do inis sé
cmp.cop.pa priest young him emph rel be.pa come-pp home and pa tell he
cérbh é féin is a mhuintir.
who-cop.pa him emph and his family
‘The next day the poor scholar left, and he reached the priest’s house and he
introduced himself, and he said that he was a young priest that had come
home; and he explained who he and his family were.’  [Oral narrative, UCD
Department of Irish Folklore]
	 The example in (34) comes from an e-mail message in which the writer is complain-
ing about the level of language competence on a new Irish language radio station. The
referent of the third-person plural LFR siad féin in (34) is the same entity as the referent
of the NP na léiritheoirí (‘the producers’). Thus, the referent of the LFR is in focus, and
there is no other third-person referent in the discourse. The use of a form which signals
a lower than expected level of inherent salience for the referent here indicates that the
writer is imposing additional salience to derive additional contextual effects, presum-
ably to underscore the producers’ low level of language fluency (the implication being
that they can read a script but can’t manage a conversation).
	 (34)	 (sic) … Agus e lan le ‘uh, ta bron orm’ agus frithghaire eadrom
  and it full with   be.pres sorrow on-me and little-smile light
neirbhiseach nuair nach dtuigeann na leiritheoiri freagrai na
nervous when neg.cmp understand the.pl producers answers the.gen
gceisteanna a chuir siad fein mar nach bhfuil leaisteachas
questions.gen rel put.pa they emph as neg.cmp be.pres elasticity
	 Relative discourse salience and Irish pronominal forms 135
teangan acu.
language.gen at-them
‘… And at the same time it’s full of “uh, I’m sorry” and nervous little laugh-
ter when the producers don’t understand the answers of questions that they
asked because they don’t have language flexibility.’  [GAELIC-L discussion
list]
	 The foregoing examination of contexts in which the LFR is used in Irish show that
the LFR serves to indicate that its referent is intended to be the most salient discourse
entity. Evidence for this can be seen in the examples in (25)–(26), where the LFR sig-
nals a perspective shift in the discourse to that of the referent, thereby increasing the
salience of the referent as a discourse entity, and the examples in (27)–(29), where the
LFR is used to signal a shift of attention in the discourse to the referent of the LFR.
When the referent is already at the center of attention in the discourse (that is, it already
has the status in focus), as in the examples in (32)–(34), the LFR may function like a
proximate, indicating that its referent is (and will continue to be) the most salient dis-
course entity, or it may be used to impose additional salience in order to indicate to the
hearer that additional contextual effects associated with the referent can be derived.
4.3  Joint usage
4.3.1  Comparative constructions.
In general, comparative constructions in Irish employ different types of pronominal
forms for reference to the entities that are being compared, consistent with the claim in
§3.1.1 that there is a difference in relative salience that corresponds to the relative ap-
plicability of the relevant property or relation.When a suffixed pronoun is used, it usu-
ally refers to the discourse entity for which the speaker is establishing that a property or
relation is roughly equally applicable or less applicable, while the LFR is usually used to
refer to the discourse entity for which the speaker is establishing that the property or re-
lation is more applicable. Evidence for this claim is given in the examples in (35)–(42).
	 (35)	 Is baolach go bhfuil sé chomh deacair céanna theacht air agus
cop.pres feared cmp be.pres it as difficult same access on-him and
atá sé theacht ormsa.
rel-be.pres it access on-me-contr
‘I’m afraid that it is as difficult to get a hold of him as it is to get a hold of
me.’  [PÓC, letter]
The referent of the simplex prepositional pronoun air in (35) is already in focus, and in
this utterance, the writer establishes both that it is difficult to contact the referent, and
that it is relatively equally difficult to contact the writer himself, who is referred to by
the suffixed prepositional pronoun ormsa. In (36) the property λx[understand (x, con‑
cerns)] is asserted to be applicable to a greater degree to the referent of the LFR tú féin
136	 Ann E. Mulkern
(‘you’) than to the referent of the suffixed pronoun mise (‘me’). Thus, other things be-
ing equal in the discourse, the referent of the LFR would be expected to be more inher-
ently salient in the discourse by the end of the utterance than the referent of the suffixed
pronoun.
	 (36)	 Is cinnte go tuigfidh tú féin na cúramaí sin níos
cop.pres certain cmp understand-fut you emph the.pl concerns those cpr
fearr ná mise.
better than me-contr
‘Certainly you will understand those concerns better than I.’ [PÓC, letter]
The previous examples involved ‘more than/greater than’ comparisons, with the LFR
associated with the entity for whom the property was more applicable. The example in
(37) illustrates a ‘less than’ comparison, but still the LFR é féin is associated with the en-
tity for whom the property ‘know Irish’ is more applicable.
	 (37)	 Cé is moite dá bhlianta i meánscoil, nuair a bhí daoine
except for-his years in secondary-school when prt be.pa people
ar lú go mór a n-eolas ar Ghaeilge ná é féin
rel.cop.pa smaller considerably their knowledge of Irish than him emph
á theagasc, ní dhearna sé aon staidéar ar an teanga sin …
him-teach- prog neg make.pa he any study on the language that
‘Except for his years in secondary school, when people who knew far less
about Irish than him were teaching him, he didn’t do any studying of that lan-
guage …’  [Breandán Ó hEithir. 1977.Willie the Plain Pint agus an Pápa: 75]
In (38), however, we have the opposite case. The entity for which the property is more
applicable is referred to with the suffixed pronoun tusa, with the LFR mé fhéin used to
refer to the entity for which it is less applicable.
	 (38)	 Jimmy:	 Bhfuil a fhios a’d céard é fhéin Éamonn, tá
(q)	 be.pres its knowledge at-you what it emph É be.pres
	 tusa níos fucked up ná mé fhéin, a dhreatháir.
	 you-contr cpr than me emph voc brother.voc
	
‘You know what, Éamonn, you are more fucked up than me,
brother.’  [Antoine Ó Flatharta. 1986. Gaeilgeoirí:47]
In the context in which this utterance is used, however, there are some additional con-
textual assumptions that perhaps account for the pronoun choice. One is that it has
been assumed up to now that Jimmy is the odd one, saying and doing inappropriate
things, while Éamonn has been the model of orthodoxy. So the property λx[fucked_
up(x)] is already known to be salient for Jimmy, while it represents a contrast to the pre-
vious perception of Éamonn. Alternatively, since Jimmy is the speaker here, the use of
the LFR may highlight the subjectivity of Jimmy’s utterance.
	 Relative discourse salience and Irish pronominal forms 137
4.3.2  Coordinate constructions
In Irish, an augmented pronoun form is obligatory when a pronominal referring ex-
pression is used for one of the referents in a coordinated NP or PP. As can be seen from
the following examples, though, the choice of pronominal form for a coordinated ref-
erent depends on the same discourse considerations discussed in §4.1 and §4.2 for non-
coordinated referents. In (39), for example, Éamonn is inviting Róisín to dance with
him. As partners in the dance, their salience with respect to one another will be rela-
tively equal, hence the use of the suffixed pronominals to refer to both of them.
	 (39)	 Éamonn:	 Anois, Róisín, tusa agus mise.
	 now you-contr and me-contr
	 ‘
Éamonn: Now, Róisín, you and me.’  [Antoine Ó Flatharta. 1986.
Gaeilgeoirí:52]
	 The example in (40) comes from the journal of the boat trip, in which the writer
provides a first-hand account of events. In this utterance, the LFR mé féin is used for
the purpose of indicating that the events are being reported from the perspective of
the author. It is also the case that, although there are others involved in the events be-
ing described, the discourse is primarily about the speaker. Furthermore, the use of
the prepositional LFR liom féin in the last sentence in (40) makes it clear that the fifty
people at the airport were in the speaker’s personal entourage.
	 (40)	 Bhí muid ag imeacht as Aerfort Bhaile Átha Cliath. Kevin Cronin, 
be.pa we leave- prog out-of airport Dublin
Seán Mullen, Johnny Walsh, agus mé féin. Tá mé ag ceapadh go
    and me emph be.pres I think-prog cmp
raibh leathchéad duine ag an aerfort liom féin, mo chuid gaolta
be.pa fifty person at the airport with-me emph my part relatives.gen
an chuid ba mhó acu.
the part cop.pa big.spr of-them
‘We were leaving from Dublin Airport. Kevin Cronin, Seán Mullen, Johnny
Walsh, and me. I think there were fifty people at the airport with me, most
of them my relatives.’  [Colm Dubh Ó Méalóid. 1986. Ar Bhád Conraí go
Meiriceá: 24–5]
The example in (41) comes from a radio program about the poetry of Patrick Pearse.
The speaker has just mentioned in the context prior to (41) that one of the poems was
inspired by a friend of the poet’s who went off to France. The friend is the referent of the
simplex prepositional pronoun air, and of the LFR in the coordinated NP sé féin agus
an file in (41). As the felicitous use of the simplex form indicates, the referent of air (that
is, the friend) is in focus in the discourse in (41); thus, the LFR in the coordinated NP
functions like a proximate to indicate that its referent is the currently most central or
salient third-person entity in the discourse.
138	 Ann E. Mulkern
	 (41)	 D’iarr an file air cuimhniú anois ‘is aríst ar na háiteacha a
pa-ask the poet on-him remember now and again on the.pl places rel
théadh sé féin agus an file le chéile.
go.pa.hab he emph and the poet together

‘The poet asked him [the friend] to remember now and again the places
where he and the poet used to go together.’  [Raidio na Gaeltachta program]
4.4  Pronouns augmented with demonstratives
Third-person pronominal forms augmented with demonstratives (the forms shown in
(1)) are used in the same contexts in which suffixed pronouns are used. They primarily
are used for non-human referents, for which the suffixed pronouns cannot be used, but
they can be used to refer to humans as well. When they are used for human referents,
they function like the suffixed pronouns in indicating that there is an equal or lower
level of salience for the referent relative to some other discourse entity; but in addition,
they indicate that the relative salience of the entity is related to a deictic property such
as time or location. Some examples of pronoun forms with demonstratives used for
human referents are shown in (42)–(44). The example in (42) is from an article about
the three chemists who were the recipients of the 1995 Nobel Prize in Chemistry. The
first paragraph of the article introduces all three prize-winning chemists. The second
paragraph is about one of them, Paul Crutzen, and describes his work, while the third
paragraph, shown in (42), is about the other two, Mario Molina and Sherwood Row-
land. The first sentence in (42) indicates a shift of discourse topic to these two, and the
second sentence begins to describe their work. In this context, the use of the demon-
strative pronominal siad siúd functions similarly to the suffixed pronoun in contexts
where it is associated with marking relatively equal salience for its referent with respect
to another salient entity (the other chemist, discussed in the paragraph prior to the one
in (42)). However, the distal demonstrative siúd that augments the pronoun in (42) ad-
ditionally indicates that this discourse entity is the Mario Molina and Sherwood Row-
land who existed at an earlier point in time (in this case, in 1974).
	 (42)	 Is as Meiriceá an bheirt eile, Mario Molina agus Sherwood
cop.pres from America the two-people other and  
Rowland. Chruthaigh siad siúd sa bhliain 1974, go n-imoibreodh solas
  prove.pa they that in-the year   cmp react.cond light
ultravialait san atmaisféar le clórafluaracharbóin chun adaimh
ultraviolet in-the atmosphere with chlorofluorocarbons toward atoms
chlóirín a tháirgeadh.
chlorine prt produce
‘The other two, Mario Molina and Sherwood Rowland, are from America.
They proved in 1974 that ultraviolet light in the atmosphere would react with
chlorofluorocarbons to produce chlorine atoms.’  [An t-Eolaí, Uimhir 19,
1996]
	 Relative discourse salience and Irish pronominal forms 139
In the example in (43), repeated from (4), the pronoun augmented with the distal de-
monstrative is used to indicate that a contrast is being established between the English
and everybody else. In addition to marking contrast, though, the form siad siúd indi-
cates either a geographic distance (Ireland vs. England) or a psychological (pejorative)
distance from the speaker for the referent of the expression.
	 (43)	 … go mbíonn gach uile dhream ach na Sasanaigh sásta a
  cmp be.pres-hab every group but the.pl English content prt
admháil go ndearna siad dearmad in am éigin. Bíonn siad siúd
admit cmp made.pa they mistake in time some be.pres-hab they that
ceart go fiú nuair is léir don dall iad a bheith go huile agus
right even when cop.pres clear to-the blind them prt be wholly and
go hiomlán as bealach.
fully out-of way
‘… that every group but the English is willing to admit that they made a mis-
take at some time. They are right when it is clear even to the blind that they
are totally out of line.’ [Breandán Ó hEithir. 1977.Willie the Plain Pint agus an
Pápa: 42]
	 The example in (44) is interesting because the writer has employed all three types
of pronominal expressions in a single utterance.When the prepositional LFR aige féin
is used in the complement clause of the verb dúirt (‘said’), it marks the referent, an
Cadhnach (Ó Cadhain), as the one whose point of view is being represented, indicating
subjectivity. When the pronoun augmented with the demonstrative and the suffixed
pronoun are used, it is in the context of a comparison where the two entities are rela-
tively equal to one another.
	 (44)	 Is baolach freisin go mbeidh an rogha úd, a dúirt an Cadhnach
cop.pres feared also cmp be.fut the choice that rel say.pa the Cadhain
a bheith aige féin tráth, i bhfad níos éasca a dhéanamh amach
prt be at-him emph time in length cpr easy prt do out
anseo ná mar a bhí aige siúd ná mar atá agamsa,
here than as rel be.pa at-him that than as rel-be.pres at-me-contr
mar shampla, anois.
as example now
‘I’m afraid also that that choice [which language to write in], which Ó Cad-
hain said he once had, will be much easier to make from now on than it was
for him or than it is for me, for example, now.’  [Breandán Ó hEithir. 1977.
Willie the Plain Pint agus an Pápa:32]
The comparison in (44) establishes that the ease with which a writer chooses a language
applies to a greater degree to any writer at time t+1 (after ‘now’) than it does to a par-
ticular writer at t-1 (before ‘now’) or a particular writer at t (‘now’). The referent of aige
síud is also Ó Cadhain, but it is the stage of Ó Cadhain which existed at t-1, and which is
140	 Ann E. Mulkern
distinguished by the element of time from the stage of Ó Cadhain whose point of view
was represented in the previous sentence. The discourse entity “Ó Cadhain at t-1” is
about equally salient relative to the referent of agamsa, the writer of (44) at time t, with
respect to the applicability of the property under discussion.
	 In each of the examples shown in (42)–(44), the pronoun augmented with the dis-
tal demonstrative is used to refer to a discourse entity that is at some distance from the
speaker/writer, whether metaphorical distance (that is, across time) as in (42) and (44),
or physical or psychological distance, as in (43). In other respects, though, the pronoun
augmented with the demonstrative functions like the suffixed pronoun in indicating
that its referent is equally or less salient than another discourse entity, for example, in
contexts in which a comparison or contrast is being established.
5.  Conclusion
This chapter reports on a study of the different pronominal forms in Irish associated
with the cognitive status activated. Since there are several morphologically different
forms which can all be felicitously used for entities that are at least activated, cogni-
tive status alone does not distinguish among them, and previous accounts in tradition-
al and reference grammars of Irish do not adequately explain their function and use,
though these accounts provide an indication that the differences among them are asso-
ciated with pragmatic or discourse considerations. Here, I have argued that the crucial
distinction between them is the speaker’s indication of the expected salience of the ref-
erent of the pronoun relative to other discourse entities. Suffixed pronominal forms are
used to signal that an entity’s salience is equal to or less than another entity. Pronom-
inal forms augmented with féin, on the other hand, are used to signal the promotion of
the salience of an entity to the highest position relative to other entities in the discourse,
or to signal that the referent remains the most salient one among activated discourse
referents. These distinctions make the use of the augmented pronominal forms of Irish
reminiscent of the way proximate and obviative forms are used in languages with an
obviation system, where different forms signal differences in the assumed or expected
centrality of the referent for third-person referents. In Irish, however, the same distinc-
tion with respect to centrality is available for all referents. Pronoun forms augmented
with demonstratives are similar to the suffixed forms in that they are used to signal that
their referent is relatively equal or less salient than another entity, but when they are
used for human referents they usually signal that the relative salience is associated with
an additional deictic factor of time or location, either physical location or location in
the discourse.
	 Relative discourse salience and Irish pronominal forms 141
Abbreviations
The following abbreviations are used in glossing the Irish examples in the text. 1: first-person
subject; 2: second-person subject; 3: third-person subject; sg: singular; pl: plural; gen: genitive
case; voc: vocative case; pres: present tense; pa: past tense; fut: future tense; cond: conditional
mood; hab: habitual aspect; aut: autonomous (impersonal) verb form; cop: copula; cmp: com-
plementizer; prt: particle (used with a verbal noun); rel: particle introducing a relative clause;
q: interrogative particle; cpr: comparative form; spr: superlative form; contr: suffix on aug-
mented pronouns; and emph: morpheme augmenting LFR pronouns.
References
Ariel, M. 1990. Accessing Noun-phrase Antecedents. London: Routledge.
Baker, C. L. 1995 “Contrast, discourse prominence, and intensification, with special reference to
locally free reflexives in British English.” Language 71: 63–101.
de Bhaldraithe, T. 1953. Gaeilge Chois Fhairrge: an deilbhíocht. Baile Átha Cliath: Institiúid Ard-
Léinn.
Cantrall, W. R. 1974. Viewpoint, Reflexives, and the Nature of Noun Phrases. Janua Linguaram
Series Practica 210. The Hague: Mouton.
Christian Brothers. 1960. Graiméar Gaeilge na mBraithre Chríostaí. Dublin: Mac an Ghoill.
Clamons, R., Mulkern, A. E., and Sanders, G. 1993. “Salience signaling in Oromo.” Journal of
Pragmatics 19: 519–36.
Cole, P., Hermon, G., and Huang, C.~T. J. 2001. “(Introduction) Long-distance reflexives: The
state of the art.” In Syntax and Semantics vol. 33: Long-Distance Reflexives, ed. by P. Cole,
G. Hermon, and C.-T. J. Huang. San Diego: Academic Press. xiii–xlvii.
Dahl, Ö. and Fraurud, K. 1996. “Animacy in grammar and discourse.” In Reference and Referent
Accessibility, ed. by T. Fretheim and J. K. Gundel, 47–64. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Givón, T. 1984. Syntax: A Functional-Typological Introduction. Volume I. Amsterdam: John Ben-
jamins.
Grice, H. P. 1975. “Logic and conversation.” In Syntax and Semantics, vol. 3: Speech Acts, ed. by
P. Cole and J. Morgan, 41–58. NewYork: Academic Press.
Gundel, J. K., Hedberg, N., and Zacharski, R. 1993. “Cognitive status and the form of referring
expressions in discourse.” Language 69: 2, 274–307.
Gundel, J. K. 1994. “On different kinds of focus.” In Focus: Linguistic, Cognitive, and Computa‑
tional Perspectives, ed. by P. Bosch and R. van der Sandt, 293–305. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Gundel, J. K., Borthen, K., and Fretheim, T. 1999. “The role of context in pronominal reference
to higher order entities in English and Norwegian.” In Modeling and Using Context. Lecture
Notes in Artificial Intelligence, ed. by P. Bouquet, et al. Berlin: SpringerVerlag.
Huang, Y. 2000. Anaphora: A Cross-Linguistic Approach. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Huang, Y. 2004. “Anaphora and the pragmatics–syntax interface.” In The Handbook of Pragmat‑
ics, ed. by L. R. Horn, and G.Ward, 288–314. Oxford: Blackwell.
Kehler, A. 2002. Coherence, Reference, and the Theory of Grammar. Stanford: CSLI.
142	 Ann E. Mulkern
Kornfilt, J. 2001. “Local and long-distance reflexives in Turkish.” In Syntax and Semantics vol.
33: Long-Distance Reflexives, ed. by P. Cole, G. Hermon, and C.-T. J.Huang, 197–226. San
Diego:Academic Press.
Kuno, S. 1987. Functional Syntax: Anaphora, Discourse and Empathy. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Lambrecht, K. 1994. Information Structure and Sentence Form. Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
Mulkern, A. E. 2003. Cognitive status, discourse salience, and information structure: Evidence
from Irish and Oromo. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Minnesota.
Ó Cadhlaigh, C. 1940. Gnás na Gaeilge. Baile Átha Cliath: Oifig an t-Soláthair.
Ó Rathaille, T. 1932. Irish Dialects, Past and Present. Dublin: Dublin Institute for Advanced
Studies.
Ó Searcaigh, S. 1954. Coimhréir Ghaedhilg an Tuaiscirt. Baile Átha Cliath: Oifig an t-Soláthair.
Ó Siadhail, M. 1980. Learning Irish. Dublin: Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies.
Ó Siadhail, M. 1989. Modern Irish: Grammatical Structure and Dialectal Variation. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Prince, E. F. 1981. “Toward a taxonomy of given-new information.” In Radical Pragmatics, ed. by
P. Cole, 223–55. NewYork: Academic Press.
Sperber, D. and Wilson, D. 1986. Relevance: Communication and Cognition. Oxford: Blackwell.
2nd edition 1995.
Stenson, N. 1981. Studies in Irish Syntax. Tübingen: Gunter NarrVerlag.
Stenson, N., and Mulkern, A. E. 1994. “Cognitive status, discourse salience and Irish pronom-
inal forms.” Paper presented at Comdháil Idirnáisúnta ar Theangacha in Éirinn, University
of Ulster at Jordanstown, June 1994.
Walker, M. A., Joshi, A. K., and Prince, E. F. 1998. Centering Theory in Discourse. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Ward, G. L. and Hirschberg, J. 1985. “Implicating uncertainty: the pragmatics of Fall–Rise into-
nation.” Language 61.4: 747–76.
Ward, G. L. and Prince, E. F. 1991. “On the topicalization of indefinite NPs.” Journal of Pragmat‑
ics 15.8: 167–78.
Zribi-Hertz, A. 1989. “Anaphor binding and narrative point of view:English reflexive pronouns
in sentence and discourse.” Language, 65.4: 695–727.
Zribi-Hertz, A. 1995. “Emphatic or reflexive? On the endophoric character of French lui-même
and similar complex pronouns.” Journal of Linguistics 31: 333–74.
chapter 7
The correspondence between cognitive status
and the form of kind-referring NPs*
Kaja Borthen
Norwegian University of Science and Technology
1.  Introduction
Two seemingly ad hoc properties of kind-referring NPs have often been mentioned
in the literature on generic nominals. One is that definite singular NPs that refer to
kinds (in examples like The lion is not yet in danger of extinction) denote a so-called
“well-­established” kind. This does not hold for all types of kind-referring NPs, though.
A second issue that has often been mentioned is that indefinite singular NPs that refer
to kinds (in examples like A lion (namely the Berber lion) is almost extinct) always refer
to a subkind of the most general kind of thing their descriptive content is compatible
with, which does not hold for all types of kind-referring NPs either.
	 In this chapter, I show how these, and other, discrepancies between different types
of kind-referring NPs can be given a perfectly general explanation if one assumes with
Gundel, Hedberg, and Zacharski (1993) that an NP form signals a certain cognitive sta-
tus for its associated discourse referent, regardless of what type of entity this discourse
referent is.
2.  The Givenness Hierarchy
Gundel, Hedberg, and Zacharski (1993) (henceforth GHZ 1993) assume that nominal
forms (e.g. determiners and pronouns) provide processing signals that assist the ad-
dressee in restricting the set of possible interpretations of a nominal phrase. That is, the
form of a referring expression provides information about where in the hearer’s mem-
ory store a representation of the expression’s referent is expected to be found. Based on
empirical studies in five different languages, they suggest that there are six cognitive
 
*  I am in debt to Greg Carlson, Thorstein Fretheim, Jeanette Gundel, Nancy Hedberg, Michael
Hegarty and Ron Zacharski for insightful comments to this paper. In addition, I want to express
my special gratitude to Jeanette Gundel. She has been, and is, a very important source of inspi-
ration and knowledge for me linguistically, and a wonderful friend.
144	 Kaja Borthen
statuses that NP forms may be associated with cross-linguistically. This is represented
in the Givenness Hierarchy in (1), here with some correlated English forms.
	 (1)	 The Givenness Hierarchy:
in focus > activated > familiar >

uniquely
identifiable
> referential >

type
identifiable
it that, this,
this N
that N the N indefinite
this N
a N
Each form encodes (and is therefore located under) the minimum cognitive status that
the discourse referent must be assumed to have in the hearer in order for the form to be
used appropriately. An unaccented personal pronoun can for instance only be used if
the intended discourse referent’s attention state in the hearer is ‘in focus’. And the defin-
ite article can only be used if its attention state is (at least) ‘uniquely identifiable.’
	 The different cognitive statuses can be described as follows. That a discourse referent
satisfies the cognitive status ‘type identifiable’ means that the hearer is able to identify
the type of thing referred to. That a discourse referent has the cognitive status ‘referen-
tial’ means that the hearer is supposed to associate a representation of it by the time the
sentence is processed, which means that the discourse referent can be subsequently re-
ferred to by an anaphoric expression, for instance. That a discourse referent has the sta-
tus ‘uniquely identifiable’ means that the hearer is able to associate a unique representa-
tion of it by the time the NP is processed, which means that either the hearer is already
familiar with it, or she can create a unique representation of it based on the descriptive
content of the phrase alone. That a discourse referent satisfies the cognitive status ‘fa-
miliar’ means that the hearer has a representation of it in memory. That a discourse ref-
erent has the attention state ‘activated’ means that the hearer has a representation of it
in working (i.e. short-term) memory. And that a discourse referent has the status ‘in fo-
cus’ means that it is currently in the center of attention.
	 One class of nominal forms which is not represented in (1), but which will be im-
portant later, is proper names. Gundel et al. (1993) do not discuss the correlation be-
tween the use of proper names and cognitive statuses, but Mulkern (1996) does. She
concludes that full names (for human beings) are associated with the cognitive status
‘uniquely identifiable’ whereas single names are associated with the cognitive status ‘fa-
miliar.’ This means that a full name like Jeanette Gundel can be used felicitously if the
hearer is not previously familiar with the intended referent, whereas a single name like
Jeanette can only be used felicitously if the hearer already has a representation of the ref-
erent in memory.
	 Since the higher (i.e. left-most) statuses in (1) entail the lower ones, an expression
with a form that explicitly signals a lower cognitive status can in principle be used also if
its associated discourse referent has a high cognitive status in the hearer’s mind. For in-
stance, the definite article can in principle be used even if the referent is activated, since
satisfying the cognitive status ‘activated’ entails satisfying the status ‘uniquely identifi-
able’ (as well as the statuses ‘familiar,’ ‘referential,’ and ‘type identifiable’). This is illus-
trated in (2).
	 Cognitive status and the form of kind-referring NPs 145
	 (2)	 a.	 I couldn’t sleep last night. The dog next door kept me awake.
b.	
I couldn’t sleep last night. There was a cat and a dog fighting outside, and
the dog howled like a wolf.
In (2a), the phrase the dog next door may be uttered felicitously even if the hearer did
not know beforehand that there was a dog next door. In that context, the discourse ref-
erent associated with the expression the dog next door in (2a) is not familiar, activated,
or in focus. But the descriptive content of the phrase is sufficient to justify the creation
of a unique representation of the dog, so the discourse referent is uniquely identifiable,
as required. In (2b), the phrase the dog is used in a case where the associated discourse
referent is not only uniquely identifiable, but even activated, as the dog has already
been mentioned. Thus, (2b) illustrates that the cognitive status that each form is associ-
ated with is the minimum cognitive status required by the form; the cognitive status of
the associated discourse referent may also be higher.
	 The fact that expressions are typically not used when a higher status than the re-
quired one is fulfilled, is assumed to be due to conversational implicatures that result
from an interaction of Grice’s Maxim of Quantity with the Givenness Hierarchy:
	 The Maxim of Quantity (Grice 1975):
	 Q1: 
Make your contribution as informative as required (for the current purpose of
the exchange).
	 Q2:  Do not make your contribution more informative than is required.
From Q1 it is expected that a nominal form is most felicitously used when its associ-
ated discourse referent has the exact cognitive status that the form signals, whereas Q2
loosens this requirement, implying that it might not always be required that one is this
informative.
	 One thing that can be argued to follow from Q1 is that if the speaker uses a form
that encodes a lower cognitive status than the referent actually has (which is permitted
by the hierarchy), this will typically be in cases where the actual cognitive status of the
referent is close to the minimal cognitive status that the form encodes. This fact is con-
nected to Q1 because a form encoding a cognitive status close to the actual status of the
referent is presumably more informative than alternative forms, that encode more dis-
tant cognitive statuses. This means that we can explain why the indefinite article, which
signals the status ‘type identifiable’, is quite often used to refer to discourse entities that
are referential, whereas it is very seldom used to refer to entities that are uniquely iden-
tifiable or more. The same kind of argument can explain the fact that the definite article
is used more often to refer to e.g. activated entities than the indefinite article is.
	 The implicatures that are assumed to arise as an interaction of Grice’s Maxim of
Quantity with the Givenness Hierarchy, result in a dissociation between cognitive sta-
tuses and forms. Use of the indefinite article, for instance, implicates that the associated
discourse referent is not uniquely identifiable. Since implicatures (unlike necessary in-
ferences) can be cancelled, or may fail to appear, this dissociation between cognitive
146	 Kaja Borthen
statuses and forms only takes form of a tendency. That indefinites can be used in some
cases even if their associated discourse referent is e.g. activated, is illustrated in (3).
	 (3)	 a.	
I met a student before class. A student came to see me after class as
well — in fact it was the same student I had seen before.
b.	
Dr. Smith told me that exercise helps. Since I heard it from a doctor, I’m
inclined to believe it.
	 Even though only object-referring NPs are explicitly discussed in the GHZ (1993)
paper, the theory does not put any restrictions on what type of entity a nominal expres-
sion is supposed to refer to in order to be covered by the theory. Thus, the Givenness
Hierarchy is expected to be applicable to nominals that refer to events, just as well as in-
dividual objects, for instance. That this expectation is borne out has been shown in, for
instance, Borthen, Gundel, and Fretheim (1997), Hegarty, Gundel, and Borthen (2001),
and Gundel, Hegarty, and Borthen (2002) for demonstrative and personal pronouns
in English and Norwegian. Likewise, there is nothing in the Givenness Hierarchy that
suggests that the processing signals provided by a form work differently with kind-re-
ferring NPs than with object-referring NPs. On the contrary, assuming that nominal
forms are associated with certain cognitive statuses, it is expected that kind-referring
and object-referring NPs behave exactly the same in this respect.
This is the hypothe-
sis put forth in this chapter, and we will see later how this sheds light on what appear to
be peculiarities of different types of kind-referring NPs. The distinction between kind-
referring and object-referring NPs will be explicated in the next section.
3.  Forms and interpretations of kind-referring NPs
3.1  Definition of kind-referring NPs
I assume with Chesterman (1991), among others, that whether or not an NP is kind-re-
ferring depends ultimately and exclusively on what type of ontological entity is being
referred to. An NP is kind-referring simply if reference is not made to an individual ob-
ject, but to a genus, a species, or more generally a kind, which is an abstract entity that
captures generalizations about individual objects of a certain type.
	 Some properties are true of kinds rather than individual objects, and the kind-inter-
pretation of an NP is therefore triggered if a predicator requires this NP argument to
refer to a kind. This can best be illustrated by some examples.
.  The examples in (3) are taken from GHZ (1993).
.  This expectation has also been expressed by Jeanette Gundel, p.c.
.  The definition of kind-reference assumed here seems to be very similar to the one assumed
in Krifka et al. (1995).
.  Examples (4a) and (4b) are taken from Krifka et al. (1995).
	 Cognitive status and the form of kind-referring NPs 147
	 (4)	 a.	 The potato was first cultivated in South America.
b.	 A cat will become extinct soon.
c.	 Bell invented it.
As Krifka et al. (1995) point out, the subject in (4a) above is kind-referring because
reference is made not to some particular potato or group of potatoes, but rather to the
kind potato (Solanum tuberosum) itself. The reason why the subject has to have this
interpretation is that cultivation is something that applies to species, or kinds, not in-
dividual plants or potatoes. As for (4b), the subject phrase can be seen as kind-refer-
ring if reference is made to some kind of cat, e.g. the lion. Extinction is something that
necessarily applies to species, or kinds, not individual cats, so the subject in (4b) has to
be kind-referring. And as for (4c), one invents kinds of things, not individual objects,
which means that whatever it in (4c) refers to, it must be a kind of thing.
	 Similar arguments can be provided for the underlined phrases in (5) below, that are
all kind-referring in the sense in which the term is used here.
	 (5)	 a.	 Among the lizards, iguanas are the most popular as a local food.
b.	 Mary designed the coke bottle.
c.	
Ceila is campaigning about some seals. They are the kinds that are found
in Newfoundland and Alaska, and they are dying out at an alarming rate.
d.	
Two whales, namely the blue whale and the fin whale, were put under
protection.
e.	
Every whale (from the pygmy whale to the blue whale) is protected by
law.
	 Notice that kind-reference as it is defined here depends ultimately on what type of
entity is being referred to, i.e. whether it is an individual object (or a set of individ-
ual objects), or an abstract entity, a kind, which generalizes over properties of individ-
ual objects. Syntactic realization, the entity’s position in a taxonomic hierarchy, and
whether the entity is “well-established” or not, are not guiding lines.
3.2  Differences between different types of kind-referring NPs
3.2.1  The ‘well-established kind’-requirement
According to Krifka et al. (1995), it has been common to assume that some kind-refer-
ring NPs must be semantically connected with a so-called “well-established kind”. This
was pointed out by Vendler (1967), Nunberg and Pan (1975), Carlson (1977b), and
Dahl (1985) for singular NPs with the definite article in English, according to Krifka
et al. The ‘well-established kind’-requirement can be illustrated by the minimal pairs
in (6). The underlined phrases are all supposed to be kind-referring.
.  Examples (5d) and (5e) are taken from Krifka et al. (1995). (5a) and (5c) are taken from Ches-
terman (1991).
148	 Kaja Borthen
	 (6)	 a.	 The coke bottle has a narrow neck.
b.	 ??The green bottle has a narrow neck.
c.	 The blue whale is the largest animal on earth.
d.	 ??
The big whale is the largest animal on earth.
e.	 Bell invented the telephone.
f.	 ??
Bell invented the device.
It will be argued in sections 3.4 and 3.5 that examples such as those in (6b), (6d), and
(6f) can be perfectly acceptable in certain contexts in their kind-referring sense. Still,
there is a difference in immediate acceptability between the minimal pairs in (6), so at
this point, we follow the tradition in the literature and mark (6b), (6d), and (6f) with
two question marks to indicate their (relative) unacceptability.
	 The difference in acceptability between (6a) and (6b) when the underlined phrase is
taken to refer to a kind, is said to be due to the fact that the coke bottle is a well-estab-
lished kind, whereas the green bottle is not. Likewise, the difference in acceptability be-
tween (6c) and (6d) might be argued to be due to the fact that the blue whale is a well-
established kind in the sense of being a familiar kind of species, whereas there is no
familiar kind of whale called the big whale. And whereas the telephone is a well-estab-
lished kind, the device is too conceptually underspecified to be one, which can explain
the relative difference in acceptability between (6e) and (6f).
	 Whereas sensitivity to being or not being well-established is quite striking for sin-
gular kind-referring NPs initiated by the definite article, the same effect does not ap-
pear, or does not appear as clearly, for other types of kind-referring nominals. This has
also been pointed out in e.g. Krifka et al. (1995). Recall from the examples above that
the phrase the green bottle is standardly regarded as unacceptable when intended to
be kind-referring, due to the descriptive content of the phrase, which does not corres-
pond to an already a well-established concept. As shown in (7) below, the very same de-
scriptive content green bottle can perfectly well be used in other types of kind-referring
phrases, which means that they can refer to kinds that are not well-established in the
sense that is supposed to account for the data in (6).
	 (7)	 a.	 Mary designed a green bottle.
b.	 Mary designed this green bottle.
For (7b), imagine that different kinds of bottles are lined up and that the interlocutors
are discussing who has designed what kinds of bottles. In that context, it is perfectly
fine to state (7b) to mean that Mary designed the one already activated kind of bottle
that is green.
	 What Mary designed in (7a, b) is in both cases a kind of thing. Still, the phrases do
not have a descriptive content that is compatible with an already well-established kind,
whichmakesthesephrasesseeminglydifferentfromthecorrespondingphrasethegreen
bottle in (6b), which is standardly marked as unacceptable. Thus, in (7), we see that the
‘well-established kind’-requirement no longer holds when the kind-referring phrase is a
	 Cognitive status and the form of kind-referring NPs 149
singular indefinite, as in (7a), or a singular demonstrative noun phrase, as in (7b).
	 More examples of the same kind are given in (8) and (9). Recall from (6) that the
phrases the device and the big whale were regarded as unacceptable on a kind-interpret-
ation. As we see in (8) and (9), the predicates device and big whale are not generally in-
compatible with kind-interpretations.
	 (8)	 a.	 Bell invented a device.
b.	 Bell invented this device.
	 (9)	 a.	 A big whale just became extinct.
b.	 This big whale just became extinct.
	 As Krifka et al. (1995) point out, these kinds of data question whether the ‘well-es-
tablished kind’-test, exemplified by the data in (6), tests for reference to a kind or rather
tests for reference to a well-established kind. It will be argued later that Krifka et al.’s
question is well-motivated, and that being well-established is neither a general proper-
ty of kinds, nor a linguistic concept that is relevant for kind-referring NPs initiated by
the definite article, as opposed to corresponding object-referring NPs.
3.2.2  The taxonomic readings
Another type of restriction on kind-referring NPs which seems to be sensitive to NP
form, is whether or not one has a so-called “taxonomic” interpretation of kind-refer-
ring NPs. The presence or absence of taxonomic readings is illustrated in (10).
	 (10)	 a.	 Mary designed the coke bottle.
b.	 Mary designed a coke bottle.
c.	 Mary designed the coke bottles.
d.	 Mary designed this coke bottle.
e.	 Mary designed it.
In (10a), it is stated that Mary designed the one unique and most general kind fitting
the descriptive content of the coke bottle, and nothing is either said or presupposed
about the possibility of there being subtypes of the coke bottle. Thus, the direct object
in (10a) does not have a taxonomic interpretation. In (10b, c, d), on the other hand, the
most likely interpretations presuppose that there is a taxonomy of coke bottles, and the
kind-referring NPs most likely refer to some of the subtypes of the coke bottle rather
than the coke bottle — which are taxonomic interpretations. In (10b), with the singu-
lar indefinite article a, it is stated that Mary designed at least one subkind of the coke
bottle; in (10c), with a plural definite determiner, one likely interpretation is that Mary
designed all the subkinds of the coke bottle, and in (10d), with a singular demonstra-
tive determiner, the most natural interpretation is that Mary designed one of the coke
bottle’s subkinds, and this subtype is supposed to be already activated in the given con-
text. In (10e), whether it refers to the coke bottle or some subkind of it, depends entirely
on the interpretation of the phrase’s antecedent. In sum, it differs from NP form to NP
form whether one has a taxonomic interpretation or not.
150	 Kaja Borthen
	 More examples that illustrate that kind-referring NP forms differ with respect to
whether they get a taxonomic interpretation or not, are given in (11) and (12) below.
Just like in (10), the kind-referring NPs in (11a) and (12a) do not achieve a taxonomic
interpretation, whereas the kind-referring NPs in (11b, c, d) and (12b, c, d) most likely
do. As in (10), the (e)-sentences are fully underspecified with respect to this issue.
	 (11)	 a.	 Bell invented the telephone.
b.	 Bell invented a telephone.
c.	 Bell invented the telephones.
d.	 Bell invented this telephone.
e.	 Bell invented it.
	 (12)	 a.	 The blue whale is almost extinct.
b.	 A blue whale is almost extinct.
c.	 The blue whales are almost extinct.
d.	 This blue whale is almost extinct.
e.	 It is almost extinct.
	 Krifka et al. (1995) make a distinction between kind-referring NPs that have a taxo-
nomic interpretation and those that don’t. But they don’t make any attempt to explain
why some NP forms trigger a taxonomic interpretation whereas others don’t. Such an
attempt will be made in section 3.4 below.
3.3  A few comments on proper names
Before we turn to the issue of explaining the data in 3.2.1 and 3.2.2 above, a few com-
ments on proper names are needed.
	 It has been quite common in semantic literature to look at proper names as funda-
mentally different from other nominal phrases. In standard predicate logic, they are the
only nominals that are represented as a constant, for instance, which entails that proper
names denote one particular entity. The view adopted here is that proper names are not
that fundamentally different from other nominal forms, and that their main property
is not that they denote a particular individual. This view has consequences for the un-
derstanding of kind-referring NPs, as many kind-referring NPs have traditionally been
regarded as proper names (see e.g. Carlson, 1977a, b).
	 Let us assume that the general procedure for interpreting an NP is the following: The
NP has to refer to some entity which is compatible with the phrase’s descriptive content
and e.g. number and gender specification (if any), and a further cue in the process of
finding the intended referent is that a representation of this entity should be located in
memory according to the NP’s form; i.e., according to what determiner it has (if any),
and whether it is a proper name or a pronoun, for instance.
.  In some languages, also inflection may give signals about cognitive status.
	 Cognitive status and the form of kind-referring NPs 151
	 Assuming that this procedure is the same for all nominal forms, also proper names
haveadescriptivecontentwhichshouldbesatisfied,aswellasacertainformthatguides
the hearer towards the intended interpretation of the phrase. According to Mulkern
(1996), a full proper name like Jeanette Gundel signals the cognitive status ‘uniquely
identifiable,’ just like the definite article the in English, whereas a single name like Jean‑
ette signals the cognitive status ‘familiar,’ just like the demonstrative determiner that in
English. When interpreting an NP like Jeanette Gundel the hearer is therefore supposed
to associate a uniquely identifiable referent who is named Jeanette Gundel. This refer-
ent may be uniquely identifiable because it is already familiar to the hearer, or because
the descriptive content in the phrase is sufficient to justify that there exists one unique
referent in the given discourse universe who fits the given description.
	 The main difference between proper names and other nominals, according to the
present view, is that what entities satisfy the descriptive content of a proper name de-
pends entirely on whether or not the entity has been given the name in question, and
not on independently observable properties. Thus, whereas you can infer from look-
ing at a person whether this person is a woman or not, you cannot infer from looking
at a person whether the person is named Jeanette Gundel or not. We may therefore say
that the meaning of a proper name is not transparent. More precisely, the meaning of a
proper name is not fully transparent, as we can sometimes infer whether the intended
referent of a proper name is a woman or a man, or European or Asian, for instance.
	 Whereas a common noun usually holds of many individuals, proper names tend to
denote a relatively small set of individuals, sometimes just one. There are many more
individuals that are women than there are individuals that are named Jeanette Gundel,
for instance. This means that in a restricted context, the use of a proper name will often
be less ambiguous than the use of a definite description. However, the opposite situ-
ation may also appear; compare the two phrases Jeanette Gundel and the present king
of Norway, for instance. There may be more than one Jeanette Gundel in the world, but
there is only one present king of Norway. Denoting exactly one entity is therefore nei-
ther a necessary, nor a sufficient, property of proper names, according to the present
view.
	 To sum up, a proper name is here not regarded as a constituent that denotes one en-
tity, but a description that has been assigned to an individual as a name of this individ-
ual, with very little additional semantic content. It typically, but not necessarily, denotes
relatively few entities, especially in a restricted context. The proper name form signals
the cognitive status ‘uniquely identifiable’ when it consists of at least a first name and a
second name, and the status ‘familiar’ when it consists of just a single name.
	 Let us now turn to kind-referring NPs and the question of whether these are proper
names. Consider the NP the blue whale in (13a) below. (13b) and (13c) are two possible
Norwegian translations of (13a).
152	 Kaja Borthen
	 (13)	 a.	 I like the blue whale.
b.	 Jeg liker den blå hvalen.
	 I like the blue whale-def
	 ’I like the blue whale.’
c.	 Jeg liker blåhvalen.
	 I like blue-whale-def
	 ’I like the blue whale.’
Is the expression the blue whale in (13a) a proper name on any kind-referring interpret-
ation? I will argue that it is not.
	 Let us first consider an interpretation of kind-referring the blue whale on a reading
where the phrase is clearly not a proper name. For instance, imagine a person study-
ing a poster with pictures of different kinds of whales. One of these whales, i.e. the fin
whale, is evidently blue, whereas none of the other kinds of whales are blue.
In this
situation, the speaker may utter (13a) with the phrase the blue whale to express her feel-
ings towards the fin whale, that just happens to be blue. The expression the blue whale
then behaves just like a normal definite expression. Its meaning is fully transparent and
the set memberships of the predicates blue and whale are determined exactly the same
way as for other common nouns and adjectives. Thus, on this use, the expression the
blue whale is not a likely candidate for being regarded as a proper name. When translat-
ing this NP sense into Norwegian, the phrase has to be represented with the adjective
and the noun as separated words, as in (13b). It cannot be expressed as a morphological
compound, as in (13c).
	 But the phrase the blue whale in (13a) can also be used in another way. That is, the
blue whale can be used to refer to a kind of whale that happens to be called blue whale
(in Latin, Balaenoptera musculus), even though it is actually more grayish than blue.
On this use, the phrase the blue whale has four properties that we have argued to be typ-
ical of proper names. First of all, on the given use, the phrase is clearly non-transparent
(as the whale need not be blue), and non-transparency is a typical property of proper
names. Secondly, one may argue that the given kind of whale has once upon a time been
given the name the blue whale, which is a second requirement for proper names. Third-
ly, as long as the hearer knows the vocabulary of English, the phrase the blue whale re-
fers to a familiar entity, which is the cognitive status that single proper names are asso-
ciated with. And finally, we argued above that a proper name typically denotes relatively
few entities, and when referring to Balaenoptera musculus, the phrase the blue whale
denotes only one entity. Still, I do not assume that the blue whale is a proper name on
the given interpretation.
.  The fact that there is a preposed definite determiner in (13b), whereas there is none in (13c), is
duetothepresenceofanadjectivein(13b).Thedifferenceissyntacticallymotivatedandhasnoth-
ingtodowiththekind–objectdistinctionortransparencyvs.non-transparency,forinstance.
.  A similar context was suggested to me by Michael Hegarty, p.c.
.  Thanks to Greg Carlson for pointing this out to me.
	 Cognitive status and the form of kind-referring NPs 153
	 My first argument for assuming that the blue whale is not a proper name when it re-
fers to the kind Balaenoptera musculus, is that non-transparency of a phrase does not
entail that it is a proper name. When translating the non-transparent sense of the blue
whale in (13a) into Norwegian, the adjective and the noun have to form a morphologic-
al compound, as in (13c). As non-transparent morphological compounds necessarily
have to be stored in the lexicon, this suggests that the Norwegian string blåhval and the
English non-transparent correspondence blue whale are lexicalized on the given inter-
pretation. Since lexicalized phrases can be non-transparent, lexicalization can account
for the fact that the whale referred to need not be blue.
	 Notice also that non-transparency of the blue whale is not connected only to kind-
reference. The phrase blue whale may be used in a non-transparent way also when it is
intended to be object-referring. For instance, imagine a zoo that has three individual
whales in a pool, one blue whale (an instance of the kind Balaenoptera musculus), one
fin whale, and one sperm whale. None of these individuals are blue. If someone utters
(13a) and the blue whale to express his or her feelings towards the specimen of the kind
Balaenoptera musculus, the phrase the blue whale is used in a non-transparent way,
since the whale referred to is not blue. In this case it is obvious that the individual that
is being referred to has not been assigned the name blue whale or the blue whale indi-
vidually. According to the above definition of proper names, the phrase the blue whale
is therefore clearly not an instance of a proper name on the given use. In other words,
non-transparency is not something that enforces a proper name interpretation; it may
just mean that the string is lexicalized.
	 With respect to cognitive status, kind-referring the blue whale in many cases refers to
a familiar entity, since most people know about this kind of animal. This is compatible
with a proper name interpretation, since single proper names are assumed to encode
the cognitive status ‘familiar’, and full proper names encode the status ‘uniquely iden-
tifiable’, which is also compatible with the cognitive status ‘familiar’. But it is not only
proper names that are compatible with the status ‘familiar’. As a matter of fact, a lot of
determiners are, including the definite determiner the. In other words, kind-referring
NPs of the form the N may very well signal the status ‘familiar’ (or ‘uniquely identifi-
able’) without being proper names.10
	 As for the restricted set of potential referents, denotation of one entity is neither a
necessary, nor a sufficient, property of proper names, according to the present view.
Thus, the fact that the blue whale denotes one particular entity on a certain interpret-
ation, is not a compelling argument that it is a proper name either.
	 One may argue that the kind of whale that is intended as the referent in the present
case has once upon a time been given the name the blue whale. However, an alternative
10.  We will see in section 3.4 that kind-referring NPs of the form the N need not refer to familiar
entities, as they can also refer to just uniquely identifiable entities. So the cognitive status asso-
ciated with kind-referring NPs of the form the N will be argued to be ‘uniquely identifiable’, just
as for object-referring NPs of the form the N.
154	 Kaja Borthen
non-proper-name interpretation is also possible, as the predicate blue whale has once
upon a time been given as a description of any entity that satisfies the (lexically speci-
fied) meaning of this complex predicate. On the present definition of proper names,
this is not an instance of naming in the proper name sense, as whether or not an entity
satisfies the description depends on observable properties of the entity.
	 Furthermore, if one assumes that the blue whale is a proper name, one needs to some-
how relate this assumed proper name interpretation of the blue whale to other kind-re-
ferring NPs involving the same predicates that are clearly not proper names, such as a
blue whale. Although this is not impossible,11
it seems that any analysis that allows for
either a proper name interpretation or for non-proper name interpretations of blue
whale will need to involve either additional lexical stipulations or else some kind of pro-
cesses that convert one interpretation into another. Other things being equal, it would
be preferable to avoid such complications of the grammar. I will therefore assume an al-
ternative analysis.
	 On this alternative analysis, all (or most) nouns are in principle compatible with
both kind-interpretations and object-interpretations.12
As for transparency vs. non-
transparency, blue and whale in (13a) are listed as separate lexical items in the lexicon,
accounting for the transparent interpretations, but blue whale is also listed in the lexi-
con as a string with an idiosyncratic interpretation, not entailing a blue individual. This
non-transparent meaning of blue whale may arise with any kind of determiner, gener-
ating both a blue whale and the blue whale, for instance, both possibly acting as kind-
referring or object-referring phrases. Whether the non-transparent meaning of blue
whale involves a kind or an individual object is mainly determined by the sentence
predicate (i.e. whether it is a kind-predicate or not). The required cognitive status of the
discourse referent associated with the blue whale in (13a) is imposed by the definite de-
terminer, which signals the status ‘uniquely identifiable,’ which happens to be the same
status as for full proper names.13
This means that the referent is either already familiar
to the hearer (as in the case with kind-referring the blue whale), or the hearer ought to
be able to create a unique referent just based on the descriptive content in the phrase.14
Accidentally, there happens to exist one kind that is familiar to most people and that
satisfies the description blue whale, namely Balaenoptera musculus. This interpretation
is therefore the one that is most easily available in a non-restricted context if the sen-
11.  Carlson (1977a, b) assumes that all common nouns correspond to proper names of kinds,
and that there exists a process that takes proper names of kinds into individual entities of this
kind.
12.  For instance, this can be thought of as a kind of underspecification on the kind of index that
the nominal predicate applies to.
13.  As mentioned earlier, we will return to the cognitive status of kind-referring NPs of the
form the N in more detail in section 3.4 below.
14.  We will see examples later that show that some kind-referring NPs of the form the N are
only uniquely identifiable, not familiar.
	 Cognitive status and the form of kind-referring NPs 155
tence predicate allows for a kind-interpretation of the blue whale. In more restricted
contexts, other interpretations might arise.
	 The bottom line of this section is that whereas it is quite common in the literature to
assume that expressions like the blue whale can function as proper names of kinds, the
view is different in my sense. On the present approach, the so-called proper name inter-
pretation of the blue whale is composed from the meaning of the and blue whale in a
perfectly compositional fashion, without involving any notion of proper names.
3.4  Explanations
In section 3.2.1 and 3.2.2 we saw that some, but not all, kind-referring NPs seem to be
associated with something like a ‘well-established kind’-requirement, and that some,
but not all, get a taxonomic interpretation. One solution to these data is to assume that
kind-referring NPs have to be divided into subclasses, depending on whether or not
they have to refer to well-established kinds and whether or not they are interpreted as
subtypes in a taxonomic hierarchy. However, such an approach is not very appealing.
For one thing, it lacks general explanatory force. There is no explanation underlying the
correlation between certain kind-referring nominals and certain interpretations that
can be applied to new cases of kind-referring NPs in order to predict how these will
be interpreted. Furthermore, nothing is said about NPs with other reference domains,
which means that the distribution and interpretation patterns for e.g. object-referring
NPs has to be stated separately. This is an inefficient analysis, and there is also no obvi-
ous reason why kind-referring and object-referring nominals should underlie different
principles for interpretation. For these and other reasons (that we will come back to lat-
er in this section), I propose an alternative analysis to the stipulation-approach. On my
approach, I relate the use of kind-referring NPs to the general account of the meaning
of NP forms proposed by GHZ (1993).
	 Let us look at the kind-referring NPs in (14) below to see how this explains the dif-
ferent interpretations and requirements that arise for different types of kind-referring
NPs.
	 (14)	 a.	 The blue/big whale is almost extinct.
b.	 A blue/big whale is almost extinct.
c.	 The blue/big whales are almost extinct.
d.	 This blue/big whale is almost extinct.
e.	 It is almost extinct. 	
	 The big whale: A kind-referring NP has to refer to some kind or other compat-
ible with the phrase’s descriptive content. As the kind-referring phrase the big whale
contains the predicates big and whale, that are not listed in the lexicon as a string with
an idiosyncratic meaning, this means that the intended referent is some kind or other
which is big and a whale. In addition, the referent has to be such that the associated
discourse referent satisfies the requirements imposed by the determiner used in the
156	 Kaja Borthen
phrase, as described by the association between forms and cognitive statuses in the
Givenness Hierarchy. The definite determiner the is connected with the cognitive sta-
tus ‘uniquely identifiable.’ This means that the hearer is supposed to be able to uniquely
identify the intended discourse referent based on the phrase’s descriptive content alone,
either because the hearer is already familiar with it, or because the hearer can create a
unique representation based on the descriptive content. It might be hard to come up
with a context where this requirement is immediately satisfied for the big whale. The
reason is that there is in general no familiar kind in people’s memory corresponding to
this concept (unless we assume a more specific context), nor is it possible to construct
a new unique representation of the referent just based on the descriptive content in the
phrase, as there are several big whales in the world. However, the kind-referring ex-
pression the big whale may be felicitous in certain contexts. For instance, let us assume
that we are looking at a chart featuring pictures of whales, each representing a species,
and one of them is obviously larger than the others. Then, it is perfectly felicitous to ut-
ter The big whale is almost extinct to mean that the associated species is almost extinct.
The NP form the N is then valid because the hearer can retrieve a unique representation
of the referent, as it has already been (visually) activated.
	 Notice that if the descriptive content is richer, as with the big baleen whale that lives in
the North Sea, the phrase may be acceptable even if the kind referred to is neither pre-
viously activated, nor familiar. This is so because the rich descriptive content big baleen
whale that lives in the North Sea justifies the presupposition that the kind can be unique-
ly identified just based on the descriptive content. The notion of being ‘well-established’
is a bit vague in the existing literature, but it seems reasonable to assume that well-estab‑
lished means familiar in the sense of GHZ (1993). Given that this is a valid assumption,
this example shows that one cannot assume that kind-referring NPs initiated by the
definite article are always associated with the so-called ‘well-established kind’-require-
ment. As shown above, the associated discourse referent of the big baleen whale that
lives in the North Sea need not be already familiar to the hearer for the phrase to be valid.
	 The blue whale: Regardless of whether this phrase is used in a non-transparent
manner or as a fully compositional NP with a transparent interpretation, the defin-
ite article the is associated with the cognitive status ‘uniquely identifiable’, according
to GHZ (1993). As there happens to exist exactly one familiar (and therefore uniquely
identifiable) kind corresponding to the lexically listed description blue whale, namely
the kind the reader now know as Balaenoptera musculus, this requirement can be ful-
filled without any particular contextual preconditions on the non-transparent use. If
the phrase is used in the transparent fashion, reference may be made to any kind of blue
whale that is uniquely identifiable to the hearer. Since there are possibly many whales
that are blue, we then need a more specific context which establishes one unique blue
whale in order to accept the expression as felicitous (see the suggested contexts for the
big whale above).
	 Even though “well-establishedness”, or familiarity in GHZ’s terms, is the most nat-
ural context for acceptance of the expression the blue whale, this does not mean that
	 Cognitive status and the form of kind-referring NPs 157
familiarity has to be stated as a linguistically relevant primitive for this type of expres-
sions. The solution proposed here is to assume that like any other nominals headed by
the definite article, kind-referring NPs initiated by the definite article (be it used in a
transparent manner or not) are required to have an associated discourse referent which
is uniquely identifiable. Being well-established, or familiar, just happens to be the sub-
case of being uniquely identifiable that is the most easily available context to justify the
use of the definite article for kind-referring NPs. Thus, the relative difference in accept-
ability between the blue whale and the big whale, illustrated in (6c, d) in section 3.2.1, is
primarily due to the fact that it is easier to create or imagine a context in which a kind
satisfying the descriptive content blue whale can be uniquely identified than it is to
imagine a context in which a kind satisfying the descriptive content big whale can be
uniquely identified. This is again correlated with the fact that the string blue whale has
a lexically specified meaning which in itself narrows down the set of possible referents
in a way that compositionally derived big whale does not.
	 A blue/big whale: On its transparent interpretation, the kind-referring phrase a
blue whale is supposed to refer to some kind or other which is blue and a whale. On
its non-transparent interpretation, it is supposed to refer to some kind or other which
satisfies the lexically specified meaning of the string blue whale. The indefinite article
signals the cognitive status ‘type identifiable’ in the Givenness Hierarchy, which means
that the hearer can at least identify the type of thing referred to. According to the im-
plicature associated with the indefinite article, the hearer can most likely not uniquely
identify the referent. As there happens to exist one uniquely identifiable kind which
satisfies the descriptive content blue whale, namely Balaenoptera musculus, this means
that reference is most likely not made to this entity. So, what possibilities are there to re-
fer to some not uniquely identifiable kind which should satisfy the idiosyncratic mean-
ing of blue whale? Well, if one assumes that there are subtypes of the blue whale, and
that the expression a blue whale refers to one of these, the requirements and implica-
tures of the indefinite article are met, at the same time as the referent is compatible with
the descriptive content of the phrase. This is how the taxonomic interpretation of sin-
gular, kind-referring indefinites comes about. On its transparent interpretation, a blue
whale may simply refer to some whale or other which is blue, and the same holds for a
big whale, except that the whale ought to be big.
	 The big whales: The kind-referring expression the big whales only has a transpar-
ent reading, since there is no lexically specified non-transparent meaning associated
with big whale. According to the descriptive content and the number specification of
the kind-referring expression the big whales, reference is made to a set of kinds that are
big and whales. The definite determiner encodes the cognitive status ‘uniquely identifi-
able’, according to the correlation between nominal forms and cognitive statuses in the
Givenness Hierarchy. This requirement is satisfied if the hearer is already familiar with
the set of whales that the speaker intends to refer to. But the uniqueness requirement
imposed by the determiner is also fulfilled without any particular requirements on the
context, since there happens to exist exactly one unique set of big whales regardless of
158	 Kaja Borthen
context, namely all big whales in the world. Notice that the corresponding singular ex-
pression the big whale is less likely to be used if the referent is not previously activated,
as it is not the case that there exists one generally uniquely identifiable big whale. This
explains the otherwise surprising fact that the kind-referring expression the big whales
seems to be less context-sensitive than its singular correspondence the big whale.
	 The blue whales: On its kind-referring use, this expression has both a transpar-
ent and a non-transparent reading. The transparent interpretation is most straight-for-
ward: The expression refers to a set of kinds of whales that are blue, and this set of
whales ought to be uniquely identifiable, signaled by the determiner the. This require-
ment is satisfied if the hearer is familiar with the set of whales that the speaker intends
to refer to. But the uniqueness requirement imposed by the determiner is also fulfilled
without any particular requirements on the context, since there happens to exist exactly
one unique set of blue whales regardless of context, namely all blue whales.
	 The kind-referring expression the blue whales gives rise to a non-transparent inter-
pretation as well. On this interpretation, the expression is supposed to refer to a set that
satisfies the lexically specified meaning of the compound blue whale (i.e., Balaenoptera
musculus). Since the referent is plural, reference to singular entities is excluded. Thus,
the expression the blue whales cannot refer to Balaenoptera musculus, for instance.15
In
order to get access to a set of kinds satisfying the descriptive content blue whale, the ob-
vious solution is to move down in a presupposed taxonomic hierarchy of whales, licens-
ing a taxonomic, plural interpretation. (It is then presupposed that there exist subkinds
of Balaenoptera musculus.) The uniqueness requirement imposed by the determiner is
fulfilled without any particular requirements on the context, since there happens to ex-
ist exactly one unique set of subkinds of Balaenoptera musculus regardless of a specific
context, namely all subkinds of Balaenoptera musculus.
	 This big/blue whale: According to the correlation between English forms and
cognitive statuses in the Givenness Hierarchy, the definite demonstrative determin-
er this in this big whale signals that the associated discourse referent has the attention
state ‘activated,’ which means that it is either recently mentioned in the previous dis-
course or otherwise non-linguistically activated.16
In other words, this form points
15.  Some may argue that kind-referring the Ns can refer to the kind N, just like kind-referring
the N. I will argue with Burton-Roberts (1976), Quirk et al. (1985), and Chesterman (1991) that
this possibility does not exist. Consider the following examples.
	 (i)	 a.	 Shockley invented the transistor/?the transistors.
		 b.	 The Sumerians invented the pottery wheel/?the pottery wheels.
The only way to make the plural objects in (iab) felicitous is to assume that there are different
types of transistors and pottery wheels, and that Shockley invented a plurality of transistors and
that the Sumerians invented a plurality of pottery wheels. So apparently, the referents of the
transistors and the pottery wheels have to be plural.
16.  GHZ (1993) assume that there is an indefinite this as well as a definite this. Whereas definite
this signals the cognitive status ‘activated’, indefinite this just signals the status ‘referential’. This
latter this is not considered above, but (14d) could also be used in that sense.
	 Cognitive status and the form of kind-referring NPs 159
to a context where the interlocutors have already been discussing some big whale or
other, for instance Balaenoptera musculus. And if some big whale has already been
introduced, and therefore is activated, then the kind-referring NP this big whale is
fine. The reason why kind-referring this big whale is immediately more easily accept-
able than kind-referring the big whale (illustrated by the contrast between (6d) and
(9b) in section 3.2.1) is that the is compatible with the possibility that the associated
referent is supposed to be uniquely identified merely by virtue of the phrase’s descrip-
tive content, which is not possible in this case, as there are several big whales. As ar-
gued above, also kind-referring the big whale is acceptable if one imagines a context
where some big whale has been introduced in the previous discourse, but this type of
context is less accessible with the than this, since this is more restrictive, pointing dir-
ectly to the kind of context which is needed.
	 Whereas this big whale does not have a non-transparent interpretation (because
there is no idiomatic interpretation listed in the lexicon for the string big whale) the
expression this blue whale can in principle also be used in a non-transparent way. For
instance, if the interlocutors have been discussing the blue whale for hours and how
to best protect it from extinction, one tired interlocutor might exclaim I am complete-
ly fed up with this blue whale!, intending to refer to Balaenoptera musculus. In this
situation, the signaled cognitive status of the expression is satisfied, since the refer-
ent has been activated. Assuming that there exist subtypes of Balaenoptera musculus,
and that at least one of these subtypes has previously been activated, this blue whale
can also be used to refer to a subtype of Balaenoptera musculus. Whether we get a
taxonomic reading or not, depends on what entities have been previously activated;
only the kind Balaenoptera musculus itself, or one or more of its (assumed) subtypes.
	 It: This unaccented personal pronoun encodes the attention state ‘in focus’ in the
Givenness Hierarchy, which means that the referent is supposed to be in current cent-
er of attention. This is a type of expression for which it does not make sense to dis-
cuss whether or not it corresponds to a well-established kind in and of itself (regard-
less of context). The kind it refers to will necessarily be familiar, as any referent in
focus of attention is also activated, familiar, uniquely identifiable and so on. Whether
or not the expression refers to a kind high up or far down in a taxonomic hierarchy,
is solely dependent on its antecedent, or the non-linguistic context, if it is used deictic­
ally.
3.5  Section summary
In this section we have related GHZ’s (1993) theory on the meaning of NP forms
with the assumption that any NP in principle can be kind-referring. Through the pre-
dictions of GHZ’s theory and perfectly general pragmatic reasoning we have provid-
ed explanations for why some, but not all, kind-referring NPs seem to be associated
with a ‘well-established kind’-requirement, and why some, but not all, get a so-called
taxonomic interpretation.
160	 Kaja Borthen
	 A kind-referring NP has to refer to some kind or other which fits the descriptive
content in the phrase and its number specification (among other features). Whether
this kind has to be well-established or not (i.e. familiar or not), depends on the nom-
inal form, and whether this requirement is satisfied will differ from context to context
in accordance with the predictions of the Givenness Hierarchy (GHZ 1993). For in-
stance, the use of an indefinite article will put no ‘well-establishedness’-requirement on
the phrase, as indefinite determiners, being associated with the implicature that the as-
sociated discourse referent is not uniquely identifiable, do not signal familiarity of the
associated discourse referent. The use of a definite article, on the other hand, requires
that the referent be at least uniquely identifiable, which is a condition that is satisfied if
the referent is well-established, or familiar. Notably, there is no requirement that the as-
sociated discourse referent is familiar when the definite article is used; the referent just
needs to be uniquely identifiable. Differently from a theory that assumes a ‘well-estab-
lished kind’-requirement for kind-referring definites, this predicts that a phrase like
the big whale — that does not refer to a kind that is generally familiar to people — can be
acceptable if one creates the right kind of context or enriches the phrase’s descriptive
content. So, on the present approach, all the examples in (6) are perfectly grammatical
and semantically felicitous. The reason why the examples in (6b), (6d), and (6f), involv-
ing the kind-referring phrases the green bottle, the device, and the big whale appear as
less acceptable than the corresponding examples in (6a), (6c) and (6e), with the kind-
referring phrases the coke bottle, the telephone, and the blue whale, is due to increased
processing efforts involved in imagining appropriate contexts. This difference in turn
has to do with the fact that the latter expressions correspond to concepts of kinds that
happen to be likely to appear as arguments of kind-predicates, whereas the prior ex-
pressions don’t.17
Some of the latter expressions are also listed in the lexicon with a
non-transparent meaning. This restricts the set of possible referent candidates for these
phrases, which makes the process of finding the intended referents less context-sensi-
tive. Thus, on the present approach, kind-referring nominals initiated by the definite
article do not have to refer to a well-established kind; this case just happens to be the
subcase of being uniquely identifiable that is most easy to imagine for the reader or
hearer if a more specific context has not been presented.
	 The taxonomic interpretations come about if the form or content of the NP suggests
that one does not have reference to the uppermost available kind that satisfies the de-
scriptive content in the phrase. This may be so if the associated referent is not supposed
to be uniquely identifiable, whereas the uppermost kind happens to be, or because the
17.  It happens to be the case that some kinds of things are more likely arguments of kind-predi-
cates than others. For instance, the noun device is so general that unless the context specifies
what kind of device one is talking about, or one deliberately wants to leave it open what kind of
device it was, it is hardly a plausible argument of the kind-predicate invent, for instance. This
does not mean, though, that device can never be kind-referring. It is just less likely to than e.g.
telephone.
	 Cognitive status and the form of kind-referring NPs 161
intended referent is supposed to be plural, whereas the uppermost available kind is sin-
gular. One likely way to satisfy the requirements imposed by the descriptive content
and the nominal form in such a phrase is to move down in a presupposed taxonomic
hierarchy and assume that reference is made to one or more subkinds of the most high-
ly available kind. This explains why we easily get taxonomic interpretations of a coke
bottle and the coke bottles in (10b, c), for instance. This also explains the otherwise sur-
prising fact that the definite article of plural nominals patterns with indefinite deter-
miners in that it triggers a taxonomic interpretation when the phrase is kind-referring.
The taxonomic interpretation may also arise if the referent is already activated in the
given discourse, and it is clear to the interlocutors that the given kind is a subkind of the
most general kind of thing the phrase’s descriptive content is compatible with. This is a
likely context for phrases such as this coke bottle or it in (10d, e), for instance.
	 The bottom line of this section is that there is no need to assume that different types
of kind-referring NPs are idiosyncratically associated with something like a ‘well-es-
tablished kind’-requirement or a taxonomic or non-taxonomic interpretation. Such an
approach is undesirable for at least four reasons: (1) The stipulative approach does not
cover the data correctly, since the actual correlation between forms and interpretations
of kind-referring nominals is not strictly one-to-one. For instance, we have shown that
it is not the case that all kind-referring nominals initiated by the definite article the have
to refer to a well-established (or familiar) kind, they only tend to do so. (2) The stipula-
tive approach is not efficient, since different principles must be assumed for the inter-
pretation of kind-referring and object-referring nominals, and it is also not clear why
there should be different principles for the interpretation of kind-referring and object-
referring nominals. (3) The stipulative approach lacks explanatory force. For instance,
it cannot explain why kind-referring demonstratives (such as this lion) pattern with
singular indefinites (such as a lion) in that they typically trigger a taxonomic interpret-
ation. And finally, 4) the stipulative approach lacks predictive force in that it does not
predict anything about new cases.
	 It seems likely that the stipulative approach that presumably underlies the account
of these phenomena in the previous literature may be due to a belief that the given phe-
nomena ought to have a grammar-internal account. The present approach suggests a
different division labor between grammar and pragmatics. On the present approach,
the grammar has to allow for both object-reference and kind-reference of nominals,
and it has to supply a general theory on the meaning of nominal forms (i.e. the Given-
ness Hierarchy and the theory connected to it, as well as mappings between e.g. deter-
miners and cognitive statuses). Nothing is said about the distribution or interpretation
of kind-referring nominals in particular, which gives us a more unitary, and thus effi-
cient, system. By depriving the grammar from the responsibility of directly encoding or
fully predicting all the different restrictions and interpretations of kind-referring NPs,
we furthermore cover the data more appropriately, since we can account for patterns
that are only tendencies. In addition, we achieve a more explanatory approach with
greater predictive force. That is, we cannot predict merely from linguistic properties of
162	 Kaja Borthen
a nominal form whether it will get a taxonomic interpretation or refer to a well-estab-
lished kind, but at least we know what inferential processes and linguistic factors are
likely to affect it, and thereby explain why it is interpreted as it is.
4.  Discussion: generic bare plurals and singular indefinites
4.1  GHZ’s predictions
Two types of NPs have deliberately been left out of the discussion so far, namely gener-
ic bare plurals and generic NPs initiated by the indefinite article. The reason why these
types of expressions have been left out so far is that they represent particular challenges
with respect to whether or not they can be kind-referring, and if so, what kind-inter-
pretations they allow for. This challenge is reflected in the long-standing discussion on
the topic (see e.g. Carlson 1977a, b; Carlson and Pelletier 1995, and Chierchia 1998, as
well as works cited therein).
	 According to GHZ (1993), indefinites encode the cognitive status ‘type identifiable,’
and they are associated with an implicature which (as an effect) says that the associated
discourse referent is not uniquely identifiable. So far in this chapter a kind-referring ex-
pression of the form a N has therefore been assumed to refer to a subtype of what kind-
referring the N refers to, and correspondingly, a kind-referring expression of the form
Ns has been expected to refer to some subkinds of the kind N. These readings are exem-
plified in (15) below.18
	 (15)	 a.	 A rat was (just) reaching Australia in 1770.
b.	 Rats were (just) reaching Australia in 1770.
(15a) has an interpretation which says that one kind of rat was reaching Australia in
1770, and (15b) has an interpretation which says that a plurality of rats (i.e. more than
one kind of rat) were reaching Australia in 1770.19
	 A problematic aspect of generic indefinites is that they sometimes seem to be equiva-
lent to definite kind-referring NPs. Consider the data in (16), where (16c) is intended
to be kind-referring.
	 (16)	 a.	 A horse has four legs.
b.	 Horses have four legs.
c.	 The horse has four legs.
Intuitively, the meaning of (16a) and (16b) are very close to the meaning of (16c), which
says that the horse has four legs. Since the subject in (16c) is kind-referring, the data
in (16) may be taken to indicate that expressions of the type Ns and a N can refer to the
18.  The examples in (15) are taken from Krifka et al. (1995).
19.  There may also be other interpretations of the subject in (15b), but the taxonomic interpret-
ation is one of them.
	 Cognitive status and the form of kind-referring NPs 163
kind N, just like the N. On the other hand, one may argue that the subjects in (16a, b)
are referring to sets of entities that just happen to be more or less equivalent with the
kind-interpretation of the subject in (16c) (see Krifka et al. (1995)).
	 If a horse and horses in (16) refer to the kind known as the horse, then we have two
cases where indefinite NPs refer to uniquely identifiable referents. According to the
theory of GHZ (1993), this means that the implicature usually associated with indef-
inites (leading to the taxonomic interpretations above) is cancelled, or rather does not
arise. Assuming that an interpretation of an indefinite without this implicature typ-
ically means more processing effort (because the speaker is not as informative as she
should have been) it is predicted that the forms a N and Ns are not as plausible can-
didates for referring to the kind N as the N is. In other words, given that kind-refer-
ring NPs behave exactly like object-referring NPs, the theory of GHZ predicts that the
forms a N and Ns may refer to the kind N, but only as an exceptional case, as illustrat-
ed for object-referring NPs in (3) in section 2. The question is whether the indefinites
in (16a, b) are exceptional in that they refer to kinds that are uniquely identifiable, or
rather are examples of semantically indefinite generic NPs, in which case reference is
made to entities that are not uniquely identifiable. Other things being equal, the most
plausible alternative according to GHZ’s theory seems to me to be that indefinites of
the kind illustrated in (16) are not generally capable of referring to the uniquely iden-
tifiable kind that their descriptive content is compatible with. Cases where indefinites
refer to uniquely identifiable referents are expected to be relatively marked, whereas
the kinds of examples seen in (16) don’t stand out as marked in any sense. And where-
as GHZ (1993) did not find any examples where (object-referring) NPs initiated by the
indefinite article referred to uniquely identifiable discourse referents in their corpus
study, it should be possible to find numerous attested examples of the sort in (16a, b).
	 In sum, if one assumes that the indefinites in (16a, b) refer to uniquely identifiable
kinds, the examples do not seem as exceptional as one would expect according to the
theory of GHZ (1993). But at the same time, there is nothing in the theory that excludes
the possibility that these phrases refer to uniquely identifiable kinds.
4.2  More data
As the theory of GHZ provides no conclusive answer as to whether the indefinites in
(16) can refer to uniquely identifiable kinds, some more data might be useful, in order
to move a bit closer towards a conclusion. First, consider the data in (17).20
	 (17)	 a.	 The madrigal is popular.
b.	 ?A madrigal is popular.
20.  According to Krifka et al. (1995), the kind of data exemplified in (17) has been noted al-
ready by Goodman (1955), and later by e.g. Lawler (1973ab), Dahl (1975), and Burton-Roberts
(1977).
164	 Kaja Borthen
Whereas (17a) is perfectly fine, (17b) sounds strange, or somehow less true than (17a).
If we assume that the two subjects both refer to the madrigal, this difference in accept-
ability is not expected.
	 Next, consider the sentences in (18), and compare them to the sentences in (16),
which are all perfectly fine. The only difference between the sentences in (16) and those
in (18) is that the ones in (18) contain adjectives.
	 (18)	 a.	 A white horse has four legs.
b.	 White horses have four legs.
c.	 ?The white horse has four legs.
For the indefinite subjects in (16/18a) and (16/18b), the presence or absence of an ad-
jective only imposes the differences in meaning that one would expect. For the definite
NP in (16/18c), on the other hand, the presence of an adjective leads to a less acceptable
sentence, given that the sentence is kind-referring. That is, (18c) might be perfectly fine
in certain contexts, but it is considerably more difficult to find an appropriate context
for (18c) than it is to find an appropriate context for (16c). Again, if the three subjects
in (16) mean the same, why does the insertion of an adjective in (18) make the definite
NP less acceptable, while the indefinite ones remain fine?
	 If the subjects in (16) mean the same, the sentences they are part of should also be
equivalent when an adverbial is inserted, as in (19) below. But again, this is not the
case.
	 (19)	 a.	 A horse usually has four legs.
b.	 Horses usually have four legs.
c.	 ?The horse usually has four legs.
Whereas (19ab) are perfectly fine, the sentence in (19c), with a kind-referring definite,
only has an awkward interpretation where the definition of the horse varies over time.
	 If we take the relative difference in meaning and acceptability between the minimal
pairs in (17)–(19) seriously, the most reasonable conclusion is that generic a N and Ns
do not have exactly the same meaning as kind-referring the N. One way to then account
for the data in (17)–(19) is to assume that the indefinite NPs in (17a, b)–(19a, b) are
generically referring to not uniquely identifiable entities, possibly individual objects.
This would then be compatible with the fact that the examples differ in acceptability
and interpretation (see e.g. Krifka et al. (1995)). This assumption is furthermore in ac-
cordance with the predictions of GHZ (1993) (see above). And finally, an assumption
that the bare plurals in (16b)–(19b) refer to a plurality of entities, and not a singular
kind, is less problematic than the alternative solution, since object-referring phrases of
the form Ns can only refer to a plurality of entities.
	 Notice that the sentential predicates in (16)–(19) can be true either of kinds or in-
dividual objects, which opens for the possibility that the arguments at focus are either
kind-referring or object-referring. Now, let us consider bare plurals and singular in-
definites in sentences where the sentential predicates can only hold of kinds, which
	 Cognitive status and the form of kind-referring NPs 165
­
excludes object-referring interpretations:21
	 (20)	 a.	 Shockley invented the transistor.
b.	 Shockley invented a transistor.
c.	 Shockley invented transistors.
	 (21)	 a.	 The Sumerians invented the pottery wheel.
b.	 The Sumerians invented a pottery wheel.
c.	 The Sumerians invented pottery wheels.
	 (22)	 a.	 The French settlers in Mauritius exterminated the dodo.
b.	 The French settlers in Mauritius exterminated a dodo.
c.	 The French settlers in Mauritius exterminated dodos.
In these examples, a N clearly can not be interpreted as referring to the kind N. For in-
stance, (20b), Shockley invented a transistor, certainly does not mean that Shockley in-
vented the transistor. The bare plurals in these examples are more questionable, though.
The bare plurals in (20)–(22) can have the taxonomic interpretation, referring to (pre-
supposed) subtypes of the transistor in (20c), to (presupposed) subtypes of the pottery
wheel in (21c), and (presupposed) subtypes of the dodo in (22c). But do the bare plu-
rals also have the definite kind-interpretation illustrated by the a-examples? Does (20c),
Shockley invented transistors, mean that Shockley invented the transistor? Intuitions
are dubious at this point, but e.g. Krifka et al. (1995) conclude that these two senten-
ces do not have the same meaning. That is, they assume that the expressions transistors,
pottery wheels, and dodos in (20)–(22) above do not refer to the transistor, the pottery
wheel, and the dodo, respectively. As argued above, this conclusion is also the most
likely one seen in the light of the theory of GHZ (1993), the reason being that indef-
inites usually do not refer to uniquely identifiable referents. In addition, this conclusion
is what one expects from the number specification of the nominals transistors, pottery
wheels, and dodos, and it is the conclusion that is most in accordance with the fact that
there are contrasts in meaning and acceptability among the examples in (17)–(22).
	 In other words, this and the previous section suggest that the indefinites in (16)–(22)
do not refer to uniquely identifiable kinds. However, the plausibility and validity of this
suggestion can only be determined after considering what the exact alternative analysis
of the indefinites might be, which is beyond the scope of this article.
4.3  Cases where indefinites do refer to uniquely identifiable kinds
We concluded that the indefinites in (16)–(22) most likely do not refer to uniquely iden-
tifiable kinds, but (23a) below is an example where an indefinite NP clearly can refer to
a uniquely identifiable kind.
21.  The examples in (20a, c), (21a, c), and (22a, c) are taken from Krifka et al. (1995).
166	 Kaja Borthen
	 (23)	 a.	
A big, blue baleen whale which lives in the South Pacific, is now almost
extinct.
b.	
The big, blue baleen whale which lives in the South Pacific, is now almost
extinct.
Intuitively, the subject in (23a) can be used to refer to a uniquely identifiable big, blue
baleen whale kind which lives in the South Pacific. One fact that supports this intuition
is that the phrase can just as well be substituted with a corresponding definite phrase
without any substantial change in meaning, as illustrated in (23b).
	 Such a substitution was possible in (16) as well, but there the conclusion was that the
indefinites still did not refer to uniquely identifiable kinds. The reason why I want to
conclude differently in (23) is that the two sentences in (23) do not show internal con-
trasts with respect to acceptability when being modified, whereas the three sentences
in (16) did. That is, the subjects in (23) do not contrast with each other with respect to
acceptability depending on the sentential predicate that is being used, and insertion or
substitution of adjectives and adverbials do not lead to internal differences in accept-
ability. This is illustrated in (24)–(26) below.
	 (24)	 a.	
A big, blue baleen whale which lives in the South Pacific, is very popular
(among the tourists).
b.	
The big, blue baleen whale which lives in the South Pacific, is very popu-
lar (among the tourists).
	 (25)	 a.	 A small, green fin whale which lives in the South Pacific, is almost extinct.
b.	
The small, green fin whale which lives in the South Pacific, is almost ex-
tinct.
	 (26)	 a.	
?A big, blue baleen whale which lives in the South Pacific, usually has no
legs.
b.	
?The big, blue baleen whale which lives in the South Pacific, usually has
no legs.
	 The fact that the minimal pairs in (24)–(26) are equally well-formed or illformed
makes the sentences in (23) different from those in (16), and supports the assumption
that the indefinite in (23a) can be used to refer to a uniquely identifiable kind. This con-
clusion goes against the claim put forth by e.g. Krifka et al. (1995), who conclude that
expressions of the form a N can never refer to the kind N.
	 The assumption that the subject in (23a) can be used to refer to the same kind as the
one in (23b) means that the implicature associated with indefinites, which says that
they don’t refer to uniquely identifiable referents, doesn’t always go through (just as pre-
dicted by GHZ (1993)). As for why the indefinite in (23a) can refer to a uniquely iden-
tifiable discourse referent, whereas the indefinites in (16)–(22) cannot, this presumably
has to do with differences in descriptive content. The implicature that indefinites do
not refer to uniquely identifiable referents is assumed to result from an interaction of
the Givenness Hierarchy and Grice’s maxim of quantity (Grice, 1975): Q1: Make your
	 Cognitive status and the form of kind-referring NPs 167
contribution as informative as required (for the current purpose of the exchange). Q2: Do
not make your contribution more informative than is required. From the first part of this
maxim it follows that the most felicitous expressions are those that signal the exact cog-
nitive status that the associated discourse referent has. However, the second part of the
maxim says that one should not be more informative than necessary. In (23a), the de-
scriptive content in the subject phrase is so rich that it seems reasonable that it is not
necessary to use the most informative nominal form in order to enable the hearer to
detect the intended referent. In the indefinite phrases in (17)–(22), on the other hand,
the descriptive content is intuitively too poor to make the use of the most informative
determiner more informative than required.
	 In other words, there are some cases where indefinites can refer to uniquely identi-
fiable kinds (and therefore do not get a taxonomic interpretation), but these cases are
relatively infrequent and not a systematic pattern associated with generic indefinites.
4.4  Section summary
The question of whether generic bare plurals of the form Ns and quasi-universal in-
definites of the form a N can refer to the kind N, is a non-trivial matter. As earlier ob-
served, these NPs can sometimes appear in the same position as kind-referring def-
inites with what appears to be the same meaning. On the other hand, bare plurals and
quasi-universal singular indefinites cannot always appear felicitously in the same pos-
ition as kind-referring definites in English, which suggests that their meaning is not ex-
actly the same.
	 The analysis of how generic indefinites relate to definite kind-referring NPs involves
a number of considerations that have not been considered here. But the present discus-
sion has shown that according to the theory of GHZ (1993), generic indefinites of the
form Ns and a N are not expected to be systematically able to refer to the kind N. This
conclusion is in line with the fact that generic indefinites cannot always be substituted
with kind-referring definites.
5.  Summary
In this chapter I have argued that the theory on the meaning of NP forms proposed
by Gundel, Hedberg, and Zacharski (1993) can successfully be applied to kind-refer-
ring NPs as well as object-referring NPs. This application not only strengthens the as-
sumed universality of the Givenness Hierarchy; it even sheds light on data having to do
with kind-referring NPs that have so far not been given an explicit and holistic explan-
ation. That is, we have obtained an explanation for why kind-referring NPs initiated by
the singular definite determiner the seem to be associated with a requirement that they
have to refer to a well-established kind, and why some kind-referring NPs typically get
a taxonomic reading, whereas others don’t.
168	 Kaja Borthen
	 The most important part of the explanation is the assumption that any nominal form,
be it kind-referring or not, is associated with a certain minimally required cognitive
status, which helps the hearer in determining the intended referent of the phrase. The
process of detecting the intended referent is influenced also by other factors, such as
the phrase’s descriptive content, its number specification, implicatures associated with
the determiner that is used, local contextual information (such as whether or not a can-
didate referent has just been activated), and more general knowledge about the world,
including the hearer’s knowledge of definitions of kinds and how they are organized
into taxonomic hierarchies. Because of what the determiner the signals about cognitive
status, a very likely context for a kind-referring nominal of the form the N is that the
kind referred to is already familiar to the hearer (or well-established). This is why kind-
referring phrases of the form the N, presented in a sentence without any specific local
context, is often judged as acceptable only if the kind referred to happens to be well-es-
tablished. As for taxonomic interpretations, these appear for instance if the referent’s
assumed cognitive status, its number specification, or the local context implies that
reference is not made to the most general kind of thing the phrase’s descriptive content
is compatible with. In other words, there is not one single parameter that determines
whether a kind-referring NP gets a taxonomic reading or not; it is a question of finding
the intended referent, and kinds happen to be superkinds or subkinds.
	 Compared to an account that simply stipulates that some kind-referring NP forms
have to refer to a well-established kind, and that some kind-referring NP forms achieve
a taxonomic interpretation, the present analysis puts relatively little effort on the gram-
mar and relatively much effort on the pragmatic component. This means that it is hard
to use a formal system to predict what interpretations a certain kind-referring NP will
get. On the other hand, the present approach is more suitable for predicting the rele-
vant data, since the alternative approach fails to account for tendencies. Furthermore,
the present approach leads to a more efficient grammatical component with one set of
principles for reference assignment rather than two, it is more explanatory, since we
can explain why we achieve the different interpretations and restrictions on kind-refer-
ring nominals rather than state them, and it has more predictive force, since we know
something about what kind of inferential processes and linguistic and non-linguistic
factors will affect the interpretation of a kind-referring NP.
References
Borthen, Kaja, Gundel, Jeanette, and Thorstein Fretheim. 1997. “What brings a higher-order en-
tity into focus of attention? Sentence pronouns in English and Norwegian.” In Proceedings
of the Workshop on Anaphora. 35th Annual Meeting of the Association of Computational
Linguistics, pp. 88–93. Universidad Nacional de Educacion a Distancia, Madrid, Spain.
Burton-Roberts, Noel. 1977. “Generic sentences and analyticity.” Studies in Language 1: 155–96.
Burton-Roberts, Noel. 1976. “On the generic indefinite article.” Language 52 (2): 427–48.
	 Cognitive status and the form of kind-referring NPs 169
Carlson, Gregory N. 1977a “A unified analysis of the English bare plural.” Linguistics and Phi‑
losophy 1: 413–56.
Carlson, Gregory N. 1977b Reference to Kinds in English. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Mas-
sachusetts, Amherst. Published 1980 by Garland Press, New York.
Carlson, Gregory N. and Pelletier, Francis Jeffry (eds.). 1995. The Generic Book The University
of Chicago Press. Chicago and London.
Chesterman, Andrew. 1991. On Definiteness. A study with special reference to English and Finn‑
ish. Cambridge University Press.
Chierchia, Gennaro. 1998. “Reference to kinds across languages.” Natural Language Semantics
6: 339–405.
Dahl, Östen. 1985. Tense and Aspect Systems. Oxford: Blackwell.
Dahl, Östen. 1975. “On generics”. E. Keenan (ed.) Formal Semantics of Natural Language, 99–
111. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Goodman, Nelson. 1955. Fact, Fiction and Forecast. Mass.: Harvard University Press.
Grice, H. P. 1975. “Logic and conversation.” In Speech acts, Peter Cole and Jerry Morgan (eds.),
31–58. New York: Academic Press.
Gundel, Jeanette, Hedberg, Nancy, and Zacharski, Ron. 1993. “Cognitive status and the form of
referring expressions in discourse.” Language 69: 274–307.
Gundel, Jeanette, Hegarty, Michael, and Borthen, Kaja. 2002. “Cognitive status, information
structure, and pronominal reference to clausally introduced entities.” Journal of Logic, Lan‑
guage, and Information 12: 281–99.
Hegarty, Michael, Gundel, Jeanette, and Borthen, Kaja. 2001. “Information structure and the ac-
cessibility of clausally introduced referents.” Theoretical Linguistics 27: 163–86.
Krifka, Manfred, Pelletier, Francis Jeffry, Carlson, Gregory N., ter Meulen, Alice, Chierchia,
Gennaro, and Link, Godehard. 1995. “Genericity: An introduction.” In The Generic Book,
Gregory N. Carlson and Francis Jeffry Pelletier (eds.) The University of Chicago Press.
Lawler, John. 1973a. Studies in English Generics. University of Michigan Papers in Linguistics
1: 1. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press.
Lawler, John. 1973b. “Tracking the generic toad.” CLS 9, 320–31. Chicago: Chicago Linguistics
Society.
Mulkern, Ann. 1996. “The game of the name.” In Reference and Referent Accessibility, Thorstein
Fretheim and Jeanette K. Gundel (eds.), 235–50. John Benjamins Publishing Company:
Amsterdam/Philadelphia.
Nunberg, G. and Pan, C. 1975. “Inferring quantification in generic sentences.” CSL 11, 412–22.
Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society.
Quirk, R., Greenbaum, S., Leech, G. N., and Svartvik, J. 1985. A Comprehensive Grammar of the
English Language. London: Longman.
Vendler, Zeno. 1967. Linguistics in Philosophy. Ithaca. N.Y.: Cornell University Press.
chapter 8
Context dependence and semantic types
in the interpretation of clausal arguments
Michael Hegarty
Louisiana State University
1.  Introduction
A number of different types of entities introduced by clauses can be distinguished based
on the selectional properties of predicates selecting a subordinate clause. This mode of
analysis was practiced by Vendler (1967) and others to successfully distinguish among
propositions, facts, and events. Propositions are canonical referents of subordinate
clauses appearing in complement position to standard propositional attitude verbs
such as think, believe, suppose, and say, and facts are the referents of arguments of fac-
tive predicates such as notice, point out, significant, and odd. Less widely noted are the
referents of clauses appearing as instantiations of x in x depresses me, x is intolerable, x is
unfortunate, x is causing us to lose credibility. The referent of a clause appearing in the
position of x in these examples could be an event or state of the world, but more real-
istically and naturally, it would be a complex of events or states consisting of a causal-
ly basic event or state, together with the ramifications of the basic event or state in the
prevailing circumstances. If I am depressed about being sick, it is probably not just the
state of my body which depresses me, but a larger situation consisting of the circum-
stance of the sickly bodily state, together with its ramifications for my ability to work, to
take care of myself and my surroundings, to socialize, and its negative effect on others
around me. If a newspaper writer is found to have invented information in news art-
icles and the paper loses credibility as a result, it is not just the isolated events of inven-
tion which cause the paper to lose credibility; it is the situation of employing such a
person, of publishing their work, and of not catching their fabrications at an early stage
through internal supervision and review. There is thus evidence for a clausal denota-
tion consisting of a core event or state together with its salient ramifications. This will
be called a situation, or for clarity, a situation with ramifications.
	 This claim deserves clarification. What does it mean to say that the subject clauses in
(1a,b) denote situations with ramifications?
	 (1)	 a.	 That I am sick this week depresses me.
b.	
That one of our reporters has fabricated details of news stories has caused
us to lose credibility.
172	 Michael Hegarty
In a situation of use of (1a), the speaker knows exactly what the ramifications of being
sick for the week have been; the hearer may or may not know what the exact ramific-
ations have been. Likewise, in a situation of use of (1b), the addressee may be an insid-
er, who knows of all the ramifications of the publication of fabrications, or the address-
ee may be an outsider who has only a vague idea of the institutional failures involved
in publishing fabricated news stories, and the full consequences of those failures. In
cases where the addressee does not know the details, the ramifications are not commu-
nicated to the addressee.
But the fact that ramifications are not communicated does
not prevent them from being part of the denotation of the clause. To see this, compare
with reference in the use of complex noun phrases, where it is well known that success-
ful reference can hinge on details which are not known to the addressee. In teaching a
class on the history of the English language, one might mention the Viking invasions of
England and know enough about when and where the invasions occurred, and the ef-
fects they had on the inhabitants of England, and their culture and language, to count
as knowing what one is referring to. Arguably, one must know some of these particulars
in using the term, or one must defer directly or indirectly to someone who does, to be
counted as successfully referring to the historical events in question. One’s students on
that first day of class, however, need not know these particulars in order for the referen-
tial act to succeed. The particulars are not communicated to the students. However, the
particulars are presumably part of the denotation.
Likewise, the addressee in (1a) can
understand that the ramifications of being sick are part of the totality of events and/or
states of the world which have depressed the speaker, and an outsider addressed by (1b)
can understand that the publication of fabricated news stories is complexly ramified in
ways which are relevant to the organization’s loss of credibility, without the particulars
being communicated in the referential act. Nevertheless, the particulars are part of the
denotation of the clause in (1a) and (1b) since they are part of what is asserted to de-
press the speaker of (1a), and part of what is asserted to have caused the news organiza-
tion to which the speaker belongs in (1b) to lose credibility.
	 Situations typically have fairly determinate initial points, but the ramifications of the
base event or state can linger in a way which makes the temporal endpoint quite inde-
terminate. If one of our reporters fabricated some high-profile news reports, the situ-
ation with these fabrication events at its base is one which we are likely to be dealing
with for some time, and one which may never fully cease.
	 To the extent that these points clarify the semantic ontology of situations, they can be
used to inform recent work on the nature of facts. Kratzer (2002) proposed that a fact
is a situation exemplifying a proposition. As Kratzer defines it, a situation s exemplifies
.  This point was made by an anonymous reviewer.
.  If the denotation is the historical events of the Viking invasions themselves, with no inter-
mediary, as on direct theories of reference, then the times and places of the invasions, and other
particulars about them, are part of these historical events; if the denotation is some more inten-
sional object, then the particulars are represented in that intensional object.
	 Context dependence and semantic types 173
a proposition p if any subsituation of s either is, or can be extended to, a minimal situ-
ation of which p holds. Consider the situation of my being sick with a viral infection.
This situation has a causally basic state, the viral infection, rooted in the mechanics of
viral reproduction. This has an inner ring of ramifications involving the manifestations
of the illness in fever, chills, and other bodily symptoms of infection, and it has further
rings of ramifications involving my inability to eat, to get out of bed, to go to work, or
to visit friends. In applying Kratzer’s definition, any of these subsituations, whether the
core state or any set of ramifications, should count as exemplifying the proposition that
I am sick. For any of them is, or can be extended to, a minimal situation of which the
propositionthatIamsickholds.Thisisclearforthebasicstateofmybeingsick.Butalso,
a subsituation consisting entirely of ramifications, say the situation of my not being able
to get out of bed, can be extended to a minimal situation of which the proposition that
I am sick holds. To construct such an extension, consider the ramification together with
a causal chain connecting it to the underlying state of my being sick. For example, con-
nect the fact that I cannot get out of bed with weakness caused directly by the viral infec-
tion; the resulting causal chain is a subsituation of the situation of my being sick, it clear-
ly exemplifies the proposition that I am sick, and it is minimal in that there is nothing
extraneous to the situation of my sickness in it (such as the situation of my car being in
the shop for repairs). The situation appealed to in Kratzer’s definition of a fact should be
understood as a situation in the sense developed above—a situation with ramifications.
	 A fact is temporally initiated by the onset of the associated situation. It isn’t a fact
that Napoleon is defeated at Waterloo until the base event happens. However, once the
base event does happen, the situation of Napoleon being defeated at Waterloo thereaf-
ter exemplifies the proposition that Napoleon was defeated at Waterloo, so the fact has
no upper temporal bound. The relationship of exemplification between a situation and
a proposition is fixed once the situation obtains, and so holds even when the situation
would no longer be considered to obtain, just as the relationship of exemplification be-
tween a person and the predicate “was born on September 5, 1784” holds without tem-
poral bound once the person has been born, even long after they have died.
	 Events are the referents of expressions which appear as arguments of predicates such
as happen and occur, and, within Davidsonian analyses (Davidson 1980; Higginboth-
am 1985, 1989; Parsons 1990; among others), are introduced as part of the argument
structures of verbs. Events typically have determinate spatio-temporal boundaries,
with no general pattern of asymmetry in the determinateness of initial and final tem-
poral bounds.
	 Clauses introducing propositions, facts, and situations share a suite of distinctive ref-
erential and semantic properties which clauses introducing events do not share. More-
over, nominal expressions introducing propositions, facts, and situations lack these
distinctive referential and semantic properties. An account of the behavior of propos-
itions will be reviewed, based on a higher semantic type for propositions introduced by
clauses. A parallel account will then be offered for situations and facts introduced by
clauses. This vindicates the view of these entities as higher-order entities, a view which
174	 Michael Hegarty
Gundel, Borthen, and Fretheim (1999) adopted, though they adopted it without any
formal commitments. Events, in contrast, have been shown to have semantic type e, the
type of ordinary individuals, and clauses referring to events fail to display the distinct-
ive semantic behavior associated with the higher types.
	 Thepresentchaptermakesthreemaincontributions,overandaboveareviewofsome
results in the literature: (i) the referential and semantic properties of situation-denoting
clauses, as exhibited in the range of data examined here, will be given a fuller account
than in previous works which addressed these data, to a degree of explicitness which is
on a par with existing accounts of similar data for proposition-denoting clauses; (ii) the
propositions, situations and facts denoted by subordinate clauses will be seen to be de-
pendent on discourse context in a way not previously appreciated; and (iii) some as-
pects of the relationships among propositions, facts and situations will be clarified.
2.  Propositions
It has been noted that clausally introduced propositions are available to immediate ana-
phoric reference with a demonstrative pronoun, but not a personal pronoun, as illus-
trated in (2).
	 (2)	 a.	
For more sophisticated [mathematical] ideas, it is necessary to study the
cognitive mechanisms that characterize mathematical concepts. Lakoff
and Nuñez argue that these are the same ones that characterize ordinary
ideas. This leads to the authors’ main thesis—that mathematics devel-
ops by means of metaphors. (Auslander, Joseph. 2001. American Scientist
89: 36)
	 #It leads to the authors’ main thesis….
b.	 And it leads to a further thesis, that …
In (2a), the demonstrative this can be used immediately to refer to the proposition that
the cognitive mechanisms involved in the formation of mathematical concepts are the
same as those responsible for the formation of ordinary ideas, while the personal pro-
noun it cannot be felicitously used to refer to this proposition in this context. However,
as shown by the constructed follow-up in (2b), reference to the proposition with the
pronoun it is possible following anaphoric reference to the proposition with a nominal.
Furthermore, as illustrated in (3), propositions introduced into a discourse by nominal
.  See Webber (1988), Webber (1991), and Gundel, Hedberg and Zacharski (1993). For further
exemplification of the pattern in (2), and for discussion of a number of apparent counterexam-
ples to this pattern which are explicable in ways which do not compromise the generalization
noted here, see Borthen, Fretheim and Gundel (1997), Gundel, Borthen and Fretheim (1999),
Hegarty, Gundel and Borthen (2002), Gundel, Hegarty and Borthen (2003), and Hegarty (2003,
2006).
	 Context dependence and semantic types 175
expressions (NP or DP) are accessible to immediate subsequent reference with the per-
sonal pronoun it.
	 (3)	 Alex then introduced a new proposition. But it was immediately dismissed.
The inaccessibility to pronominal reference using it illustrated in (2a) is therefore a
property of propositions only under very restrictive circumstances, immediately sub-
sequent to their introduction by a clause.
	 Gundel, Hedberg and Zacharski (1993) provide a framework within which to in-
terpret these results. They explicate the relationship between the referring form used
by a speaker/writer and the assumed memory and attention state of the referent in the
mind of the addressee, which they call the cognitive status of the referent. More spe-
cifically, they posit a Givenness Hierarchy, consisting of a set of cognitive statuses, lin-
early ordered under entailment (reflecting the fact that the satisfaction of tightly con-
strained conditions on memory and attention entails the satisfaction of more loosely
constrained conditions), and a relationship between cognitive statuses and referring
forms by which a form is conventionally associated with a particular cognitive status,
and thereby signals that its referent has the associated cognitive status, or, by virtue of
the entailments, a higher status on the hierarchy. In many cases, Gricean quantity im-
plicatures render infelicitous the use of a form to refer to an entity with a higher cogni-
tive status than that conventionally associated with the form.
	 Of particular interest here, an entity has the cognitive status ‘in focus’ if it is at the
center of addressee attention, and an entity has the status ‘activated’ if it is at least within
short term memory (working memory), which includes cases when the entity satisfies
the stronger condition of being in focus. Thus, being in focus unidirectionally entails
being activated. A demonstrative pronoun or NP can be used felicitously if the speaker/
writer assumes that the referent is already at least activated for the addressee, prior to
processing of the referring form, while a personal pronoun can be used felicitously only
if the speaker/writer assumes that the referent is already in focus for the addressee.
	 Given the general efficacy of the Givenness Hierarchy, the example in (2) indicates
that the proposition that mathematical concepts and ordinary ideas are served by the
same cognitive mechanisms, introduced by the subordinate clause in the second sen-
tence, is rendered activated, but not in focus, by the clause introducing it. This seems
plausible on the supposition that a proposition introduced by a clause is not introduced
centrally enough to compete for attention with entities introduced by prominent nom-
inals at this stage of the discourse. This supposition is supported by the observation that
a proposition introduced by a nominal, as in (3), is rendered in focus upon its introduc-
tion, as indicated by the fact that it is available for immediate anaphoric reference with
the pronoun it.
.  This contrast could be captured by the mechanisms of Centering Theory (see Grosz, Joshi
and Weinstein 1995, as well as Walker, Joshi and Prince 1998, and references therein), provided
that clausally introduced propositions are assigned a lower rank among forward looking ­centers
176	 Michael Hegarty
	 However, it will not do to suppose that the mere fact of being introduced by a clause
puts an entity at a disadvantage in competing for a spot in the addressee’s memory
and attention. For, in contrast to propositions, events introduced by clauses are avail-
able for immediate anaphoric reference with a personal pronoun, as (4) illustrates, evi-
dence that they are rendered in focus, not merely activated, upon their introduction by
a clause.
	 (4)	 Bill dropped and broke the vase. It happened at noon.
A more plausible basis for the difference in referential accessibility is ontological: it
could be attributed to the status of events, but not propositions, as part of the furniture
of the world. For example, Asher (1993) characterizes propositions, facts, events, and
other abstract entities according to their respective positions on a spectrum of world
immanence, depending on their degree of physical instantiation in the world and their
degree of causal interaction with ordinary individuals. On this spectrum, propositions
are at the pole of least world immanence, while events have a high degree of world im-
manence, akin to that of ordinary physical objects. On this basis, events might be ex-
pected to have the referential behavior of ordinary physical objects.
	 Two other phenomena yield patterns of data parallel to that seen above for pronom-
inal anaphoric reference. First, clausally introduced propositions exhibit an interpret-
ation of quantity adverbs as mass quantifiers over part-whole structures. This sort of
interpretation was elucidated by Lahiri (1991, 2000, 2002) for a different range of data,
interrogative complements. The interpretation at issue is exhibited by (5), used to assert
that the bulk, or greater part, of the vase is clay, which can be represented in the tri-par-
tite structure of quantification given in (6), putting aside some questions about what,
exactly, counts as a part of the vase.
	 (5)	 Mostly, the vase is clay.
	 (6)	 mostx [x is a part of the vase] [x is clay]
Under the interpretation of interest here, sentences such as (5) assert that a single sub-
stance or element makes up the bulk of a given or understood entity or set of entities.
The role of mass-like structure is illustrated by the difference between (7) below (in an-
swer to the question, “What did you load onto the truck?”), which can mean that most
of what was loaded onto the truck consisted of sugar, and (8) (in answer to the same
question), which cannot mean that most of what was loaded onto the truck consisted
of the piano.
	 (7)	 Mostly, we loaded sugar onto the truck.
(Cf) than a proposition introduced by a nominal expression at the same point in the discourse.
However, the relative Cf ranking of propositions introduced by clauses versus those introduced
by nominals, required to make the centering theory account go through, should rest on differ-
ences in cognitive status of propositions introduced by clauses versus ones introduced by nom-
inals.
	 Context dependence and semantic types 177
	 (8)	 Mostly, we loaded the piano onto the truck.
The sentence in (8), with focus on the piano, does have sensible interpretations: it can
mean that most of the time we spent loading the truck was spent on loading the piano;
or that the most important thing we loaded was the piano. But it doesn’t have a mass
quantifying interpretation akin to that of (7), on which an accounting of what was
loaded by material composition would yield a preponderance of piano material over
other substances. The mass quantifying interpretation is obtained when the singular
piano in (8) is replaced by a plural, as in (9), with the mass quantifying interpretation
in (10).
	 (9)	 Mostly, we loaded pianos onto the truck.
	 (10)	 mostx [we loaded x onto the truck] [x is a piano]
This is due to the mass-like structure of the denotation domains of plurals. Turning to
complements of believe, (11) below, with a plural, exhibits the mass quantifying inter-
pretations of the quantity adverb in the presence of a plural, given in (12), along with
other interpretations, such as that Alex believes most of Jill’s stories. The interpretation
in (12b) is obtained with semantic focus on Jill’s stories, while that in (12a) is obtained
with semantic focus on Jill.
	 (11)	 Mostly, Alex believes Jill’s stories.
	 (12)	 a.	 mostx [ x is a story Alex believes] [x is one of Jill’s stories]
b.	 mostx [ x is something Alex believes] [x is one of Jill’s stories]
But (13), with a singular nominal in place of the plural, does not have either of the mass
quantifying interpretations given in (14), parallel to those in (12); it doesn’t make sense
to assert that most of the stories (or things) Alex believes consist of Jill’s one story.
	 (13)	 Mostly, Alex believes Jill’s story.
	 (14)	 a.	 mostx [ x is a story Alex believes] [x is Jill’s story]
b.	 mostx [ x is something Alex believes] [x is Jill’s story]
The quantity adverb in (13) can quantify over degrees of belief which Alex accords to
different objects of belief; with focus on Jill, this yields the interpretation in (15a), and
with focus on Jill’s story, it yields the interpretation in (15b).
	 (15)	 a.	 Of relevant stories, Alex believes Jill’s to the greatest degree.
b.	
Of relevant objects of belief, Alex believes Jill’s story to the greatest
­
degree.
c.	 Alex believes most of (the parts of) Jill’s story.
With focus on the verb, the verb phrase, or the entire clause, rather than on the object or
.  See Herburger (2000) and von Fintel (2003) for discussion of the role of focus structure in the
interpretation of quantificational adverbs.
178	 Michael Hegarty
part of the object, the quantity adverb can quantify over parts of Jill’s story, yielding the
interpretation in (15c). But this quantification over parts of a discrete object (Jill’s story)
is still different from the quantification involved in producing the interpretations in
(14a,b), which would require that Jill’s story be a mass element comprising the bulk of
the stories (or things) which Alex believes.
	 With these preliminaries, we can discern the mass quantifying interpretation of the
quantity adverb in (16B).
	 (16)	 A:	 What does Alex think about the modern university?
B:	
Mostly, Alex believes that the university has gone too far in adopting a
corporate management model.
The proposition mentioned in (16B), that the modern university has gone too far in
adopting a corporate management model, is a singular proposition, and a quite par-
ticular one at that. Nevertheless, (16B) can be interpreted as asserting that the bulk, or
greater part, of Alex’s beliefs about the modern university consist of, or reduce to, this
proposition, as represented in (17).
	 (17)	 mostx [ Alex believes x about the modern university] [that the university has
gone too far in adopting a corporate model (x)]
The interpretation represented in (17) can be paraphrased as, “Most x which Alex be-
lieves about the modern university can be characterized by the proposition that the
university has gone too far in adopting the corporate model,” or, more colloquially, as,
“That the university has gone too far in adopting the corporate model makes up most of
what Alex believes about the modern university.” In this interpretation, the clausally in-
troduced proposition behaves akin to a mass element or a plural, even though it is a sin-
gular entity. When the clause introducing the proposition is replaced by singular nom-
inal expression, as in (18) below, the result is akin to (13), lacking the mass quantifying
interpretation of the quantity adverb.
	 (18)	 A:	 What does Alex believe about the modern university?
B:	 Mostly, Alex believes Jill’s proposition.
	 It has been argued (Hegarty 2003, 2006) that the capacity to support a mass quantify-
ing interpretation of quantity adverbs over propositions is best explained on the basis
of semantic type. Propositions are typically taken to be of type 〈s, t〉, a characteristic
function defined on possible worlds which takes a world to the truth-value “True” (or
the value 1, if the range of the truth function is taken to be {0,1}) just in case the prop-
osition holds of that world. Assuming that such a proposition is recovered from the
predicate-argument structure and quantificational structure of a clause, the denotation
of the clause required to account for the facts noted above must be taken to be, not this
proposition, but the set of its entailments in the context at hand. That is, if p is the prop-
osition of type 〈s, t〉 obtained from the standard interpretation of a clause α in a dis-
	 Context dependence and semantic types 179
course context C, then the denotation of α occurring as an argument of a propositional
container predicate is that given in (19), an element of type 〈〈s, t〉, t〉.
(19)	 [|α|] = {r: p →C r}
For the subordinate clause α in (16B), C is the context created by A’s question, against
the contextual backdrop of shared assumptions about Alex, the university, and cor-
porate management models. The proposition p, that the university has gone too far in
adopting a corporate management model, is recovered directly from the interpretation
of α in C, taking no account of the occurrence of α as the complement of a propositional
container predicate. But this proposition is not the denotation of α. On the proposal in
(19), the denotation of α is the set of contextual entailments of p in c, and this might vary
from one context to another. In (16), if it is agreed that the corporate model is inappro-
priate for the university, then [|α|] will include the proposition that university govern-
ance has moved in the wrong direction. If, instead, it is agreed that the university needs
a strong dose of corporate governance, then [|α|] will include the proposition that uni-
versity governance has moved (if perhaps a bit too far) in the right direction. This is not
the case on classical accounts. If, for example, the denotation of the subordinate clause
in (16B) is taken to be the set of possible worlds in which the university has gone too far
in adopting a corporate management model, then, once we fix the referents of expres-
sions internal to the clause, specifying the university under discussion and what counts
as going “too far” in the adoption of a corporate management model, it follows that the
set of worlds is fixed, and will not vary across contexts. But under (19), the set assigned
as the denotation of the subordinate clause will vary across contexts, even when we fix
referents of expressions internal to the clause. Thus, on this proposal, the denotation
of a subordinate clause appearing as the argument of a proposition-taking container
predicate is radically dependent on discourse context in a way that goes well beyond
standardly recognized modes of context dependence, such as in resolution of the refer-
ence of pronouns, descriptions, or deictic expressions occurring within the clause. This
is not strictly a feature of propositional attitude contexts such as (16B); as will be seen
below, subordinate clause arguments of situational container predicates are contextual-
ly dependent in a similar fashion. (However, propositional attitude contexts do have an
additional dimension of contextual dependence, namely, dependence on the cognitive
or epistemic state of the subject. This provides an approach to referential opacity effects
in these contexts, an issue which is beyond the scope of the present work.)
.  Defining a Boolean algebra of propositions in terms of the standard Boolean connectives
(conjunction, disjunction, negation), the set of propositions in (19) is the principal filter gener-
ated by the proposition p under the partial order of entailment. This corresponds to all elements
of the Boolean algebra which lie “above” p in the entailment relation, all the way up to the tau-
tology proposition (which is entailed by all elements of the Boolean algebra).
180	 Michael Hegarty
	 The advantages of this denotation in accounting for quantification by adverbs such
as mostly can be worked out in formal detail; for present purposes, these results will be
summarized informally. With the denotation of the subordinate clause given in (19),
(16B), with the quantificational structure specified in (17), states that the majority of
Alex’s beliefs about the modern university flow from the proposition that the univer-
sity has gone too far in adopting a corporate management model (that is, more of Alex’s
beliefs about the university flow from this proposition than fail to do so). This is a fair
rendering of the meaning of (16B), but attempts to obtain it on the simpler type 〈s, t〉
for the denotation of the complement to believe in (16B) lead to serious problems of the
sort known as proportion problems.
	 In effect, on this account, a clause introducing a proposition is interpreted by type-
raising the proposition p of type 〈s, t〉, recovered through standard interpretive proced-
ures, to the principal filter generated by p under entailment, given in (19).
	 Another respect in which clauses introducing propositions diverge from corres-
ponding nominals in semantic behavior is in the effects of coordination. Clauses intro-
ducing propositions coordinate as a singular sum, taking singular anaphoric reference,
and, when the coordinate structure is a subject, taking singular subject–verb agree-
ment. This is illustrated in (20)–(21).
	 (20)	 Alex believes that Tom stole the personnel files and that Susan embezzled the
funds. Max believes that too.
	 (21)	 That Tom stole the files and that Susan embezzled the funds is what they be-
lieve.
This is in contrast to the coordination of nominals introducing propositions, as in (22).
	 (22)	 Alex believes the claim that Tom stole the personnel files and the claim that
Susan embezzled the funds. Max believes these (claims) too.
It is easy to verify that nominals denoting propositions coordinate as plurals, not as sin-
gular sums. Elements of type e, including propositions introduced by nominals, coor-
dinate as a plural, of type 〈e, t〉, adopting proposals for the interpretation of plurals put
forth by Bartsch (1973), Bennett (1974), Scha (1981), Schwarzschild (1992, 1996) and
.  Moltmann (1997: 237) observes that “clauses generally count as mass expressions,” but does
not make this generalization dependent upon the different types of entities denoted by clauses
delineated here. Among the data cited by Moltmann are examples with a mass quantifier over
propositional material, as in John knew little / #few (her example (A1)). This proposal is clearly
consonant with the mass-like behavior of clausally introduced propositions reviewed here. The
present approach could be considered to be a type-theoretic implementation or realization of
Moltmann’s proposal that clauses are generally mass expressions.
.  Data such as (21) were discussed by McCloskey (1991). Moltmann (1997: 230–9) discusses
data of the sort given in (20). Moltmann appeals to a mass–count distinction defined on verbs
to explain facts such as those in (20), instead of a semantic typology of clausal denotations real-
ized in semantic type theory such as that invoked here.
	 Context dependence and semantic types 181
others. With the denotation in (19), it can be shown that clausally-introduced propos-
itions of type 〈〈s, t〉, t〉 coordinate as an element of type 〈〈s, t〉, t〉, which is to say that they
coordinate as a singular sum, rather than as a plural.
	 Finally, returning to the pronominal reference examples, Hegarty (2006) argues that
only elements of semantic type e, the type of ordinary individuals, can be in focus, and
therefore accessible to anaphoric reference with a personal pronoun. On the assump-
tion that propositions introduced by nominals are of type e, while those introduced by
clauses are of a higher type, such as that in (19), the contrast between (2a) and (3) is
accounted for. In the sequence (2a–b), the clausally-introduced proposition is of type
〈〈s, t〉, t〉, but type-shifts to type e upon reference with the demonstrative pronoun this;
the proposition of type e, recently mentioned, is then in focus, making it accessible to
reference with it in (2b).
3.  Situations, facts, and events
Situations and facts pattern with propositions in the referential and semantic proper-
ties examined here. Clausally introduced situations take immediate pronominal refer-
ence with demonstrative pronouns more felicitously than with personal pronouns, as
in (23), they coordinate as a singular sum, as in (24), and they admit an interpretation
of quantity adverbs as mass quantifiers over part-whole structure, as in (25).
	 (23)	 John broke a priceless vase. That/#it is intolerable to the embassy.
	 (24)	 Fundraising for the party has declined, and the public doesn’t trust our
spokespeople anymore. But this (situation) is reversible.
	 (25)	 A: What problems are you currently dealing with in the ambassador’s office?
B: Mostly, (that) one of our attachés insulted the president at a public func-
tion last week. That has taken some real work to smooth over.
This is in contrast to the behavior of event-denoting clauses. As shown in (4), repeated
in (26) below, immediate pronominal reference to clausally-introduced events is fully
felicitous with the personal pronoun it.
	 (26)	 Bill dropped and broke the vase. It happened at noon.
Furthermore, clausally-introduced events do not coordinate as a singular sum, as il-
lustrated in (27a), except when the denotations of the conjuncts are understood to be
tightly integrated parts of a whole, as in (27b).10
 .  The predicate reversible discourages the interpretation of (24) as a coordination of fact-
denoting expressions since facts, strictly speaking, are not reversible.
10.  Data such as (27b) were discussed by Moltmann (1997: 230–9), with attention to a number
of the factors discussed here, including the difference between collections and wholes composed
of integrated parts, exhibited in the contrast between (27a,b).
182	 Michael Hegarty
	 (27)	 a.	
Tom broke a vase in the lobby, and Sam insulted the doorman. These /
#this happened on the last day of their stay at the hotel.
b.	
Bill tripped over the rug and knocked over a priceless vase. It happened at
noon.
Finally, clausally-introduced events admit a mass quantifying interpretation of quan-
tity adverbs only under special circumstances, when the event is continuous and sus-
tained. A mass quantifying interpretation is not obtained when the nuclear scope of the
quantifier involves a “point event” such as that introduced in (28B1) below. The sen-
tence in (28B1) can assert that Bill breaking the vase is the most important event which
occurred in the time interval under consideration, but it does not reflect a measure on
the extension of events according to which the breaking of the vase constituted the bulk
of what happened.
	 (28)	 A:	 What happened here between 4: 00 and 4: 30?
B1:	Mostly, Bill dropped and broke the vase.
B2:	Mostly, the children ran about the room.
B3:	Mostly, the tornado devastated the town.
For an event with multiple parts, such as that introduced in (28B2), mostly quantifies
over the multiplicity of events in the room to assert that events of children running
about make up the bulk; this is mass quantification over a plural. Only in (28B3), where
the clausally-introduced event is of considerable spatio-temporal extent, is it plausible
that this one event constitutes the bulk of what happened in the designated time period.
As in (27b), the availability of this interpretation is dependent on the internal structure
of the event.
	 In contrast, the results in (23)–(25) obtain generally for situations. They don’t just
hold for certain situations, by virtue of special structure, but for all situations, by virtue
of something quite general about the nature of situations. What is it about situations
that makes this possible? If situations were simply individual events or states, we would
expect these effects not to be available at all, or to obtain only in special cases dependent
on special internal structure of the event or state involved, as in (27b) and (28B3). The
conceptualization of situations as situations with ramifications seems to be responsible
for these effects. In (25B), the problems confronting the embassy can be dominated by
a situation whose base event, that of the attaché insulting the president, was over in an
instant, because the ramifications are difficult and consuming. In (24), the coordinated
clauses denote two situations whose base states, the decline in fundraising and the lack
of trust in the party’s spokespeople, are distinct and possibly even causally independent.
Nevertheless, the ramifications of these states can be interdependent in a way which
unifies the two situations into one: a situation of declining party health and efficacy.
This is the situation referred to by the singular demonstrative this in (24), and which the
speaker of (24) asserts to be reversible. In (23), the breaking of the vase itself is probably
not so intolerable as the ramifications—the embarrassment, the anger or loss of trust of
	 Context dependence and semantic types 183
a valued ally, the damage to international relations, the negative effects on future cul-
tural exchanges, and the like.
	 Thus, there is good reason in (23)–(25) to take the denotation of the situation-in-
troducing clause α to be a base event or state together with its ramifications: if eo is the
event or state retrieved directly from the internal structure of α in discourse context C,
and >C is the two-place relation among events and states such that e1 >C e2 just in case
e2 is a ramification of e1 in C, then the denotation of α in C is the set of events and states
given in (29).
	 (29)	 [|α|] = {e: eo >C e}
In different discourse contexts, (29) yields different sets of events and states as the de-
notation of a subordinate clause occurring as the argument of a situational predicate.
Consider an example such as, That John is sick is intolerable to me. In a discourse context
in which John is employed and the speaker is his boss, the subordinate clause would in-
clude, in its denotation under (29), the state of John being unable to go to work, and this
may be the ramification most responsible for making the sentence true in this context.
If, instead, John is retired, and the speaker is John’s doctor, who has devised a course
of treatment which did not work, then the subordinate clause would include, in its de-
notation under (29), the event of the treatment not working, and this may be what is
most responsible for the truth of the sentence in this context. Thus, the ramification of
John’s illness most responsible for making the sentence true in one context need not
even be in the denotation of the subordinate clause in another context.
	 The referential and semantic properties of situation-denoting clauses noted earlier
in this section follow directly if these clauses are taken to have the denotation given in
(29). In (25B), with the subordinate clause interpreted as in (29), the extension of the
set of ramifications of eo is available to enter into quantification by mostly. In the coor-
dinate structure (24), the ramifications of the states introduced by the conjunct clauses
are interdependent to a degree that permits the situation {e: e1 ⊕ e2 >C e} generated by
the sum of the two base states, e1 ⊕ e2, to be considered a unitary situation in its own
right. This unitary situation is the referent of the singular demonstrative this in (24). In
(23), that refers to the set of ramifications in (29) of the event eo of John breaking the
vase.
	 Clausally introduced facts exhibit the same pattern of behavior, as shown in the ex-
amples in (30)–(32).
	 (30)	 As our experience with genetics grew, it became clear that most traits, or phe‑
notypes, are inherited in more complicated ways than Mendel had described.
This is because differences between the traits of any two individuals are al-
most always due to differences in many genes. (Frederik Nijhout, “The im-
portance of context in genetics,” American Scientist 91: 416)
	 # It is because differences between the traits of any two individuals are al-
most always due to differences in many genes.
184	 Michael Hegarty
	 (31)	 “We believe her, the court does not, and that resolves the matter,” Mr. Mon-
tanerelli said today of Ms. Lewinsky’s testimony that she had an independent
recollection of the date. (New York Times, May 24, 2000)
	 (32)	 A:	What does Alex know about the incident at the nuclear plant?
B:	Mostly, that the plant was on the brink of a meltdown.
In (30), the fact introduced by the clausal complement of clear in the first sentence is
available for immediate subsequent reference with a demonstrative, but not with the
personal pronoun it. The coordination of fact-denoting clauses in (31) denotes a singu-
lar sum, taking singular anaphoric reference with that. In (32), mostly can be interpret-
ed as quantifying over the importance of various facts which Alex knows about the in-
cident, but it can also be interpreted as quantifying over what Alex knows, so that (32B)
asserts that the bulk of what Alex knows reduces to the fact that the plant was on the
brink of a meltdown. It is easy to see that corresponding facts introduced by nominal
expressions are rendered in focus, available for immediate anaphoric reference with it,
that they coordinate as a plural, and do not support the mass quantifying interpretation
of quantity adverbs. The data in (30)–(32) thus hold only for clausally-introduced facts.
	 The question at this point is whether clausally-introduced facts exhibit this behavior
on account of the situations which constitute them, or on account of the propositions
which these situations exemplify. Note that many predicates which take facts as argu-
ments, such as notice, point out, significant, odd, can also apply directly to situations in
their own right (apart from the role of situations as constitutive of facts on Kratzer’s
proposal), so these predicates should be avoided in addressing this question. The predi-
cate know, in contrast, seems to apply more dedicatedly to facts. Kratzer (2002: 664)
provides an account of knowledge ascriptions using know according to which know-
ledge of a fact expressed by a proposition is grounded in acquaintance with (or some
other suitable relation to) the situation exemplifying that proposition.11
This over-
comes problems with the analysis of knowledge as justified true belief, pointed out by
Gettier (1963), Goldman (1967), and others. The analysis of knowledge as justified true
belief fails since a proposition can be true, believed by a subject, and believed with jus-
tification, even if there is no actual situation which exemplifies the proposition. The
situation-based analysis of knowledge of facts given by Kratzer is immune to this fail-
ure since it requires that the proposition be believed on the basis of acquaintance with
an associated situation. In addition to this situation-based conception of facts, Kratzer
(2002: 667–9) argues for a proposition-based conception of facts. She bases her argu-
ment for this on the need for an adequate analysis of the truth-conditions of counter-
factuals. But there also seems to be a proposition-based notion of knowledge of facts,
which applies in cases of knowledge by inference or by deference to authority. I know
11.  Specifically, Kratzer proposes that the subject believe the proposition de re of the fact, with
the fact understood to be a situation which (qua fact) exemplifies the proposition.
	 Context dependence and semantic types 185
that four colors suffice to color any map so that no two countries which share a bor-
der have the same color. But I haven’t worked through the proof of this theorem; I am
merely aware of it through reading the newspaper. In such a case, the facthood of the
object of my knowledge is grounded in a situation in the world, but my grasp of the fact
is not grounded in anything like acquaintance with the situation itself; rather, my grasp
of the fact is grounded in my access to the associated proposition, transmitted and
vouchsafed by authority. This is, in fact, a plausible construal of the distinction between
propositional knowledge and non-propositional knowledge: the former is more prop-
osition-based, while the latter is more situation-based.
	 Thus, both propositions and situations seem to be relevant to the denotation of know,
depending on which sort of knowledge is at issue. To focus this question on the truth
conditions of (32B), in order for (32B) to be true, the bulk of what Alex knows about
the incident at the nuclear plant should have to reduce to the fact that the plant was on
the brink of a meltdown. The question is, in order for this to be so, would it be neces-
sary that the bulk of what Alex knows about the incident be facts which, as propos-
itions, are logically subsumed under the proposition that the plant was on the brink of a
meltdown, or would it be necessary that the bulk of what Alex knows about the incident
be ramifications of the situation of the plant being on the brink of a meltdown? Either
seems possible. The exchange in (32) could be about situational knowledge if Alex is a
worker at the plant who was present during the incident in question, but it could equal-
ly well be about propositional knowledge if Alex is a regulator, at some remove from the
plant, merely reading reports about it. Thus, the knowledge of facts involved in (32) can
be proposition-based, or it can be situation-based; in the latter case, one knows the base
event or state and its ramifications through the sort of acquaintance which is the basis
for knowing a situation.
	 This suggests that Kratzer’s (2002) analysis of a fact as a situation exemplifying a
proposition should be understood in terms of referential duality. We have seen, adapt-
ing Kratzer’s account, that the denotation of a clause introducing a fact is neither ex-
clusively a proposition nor exclusively a situation with ramifications. A clausally-intro-
duced fact seems to be inherently dual, so that the proposition defining the fact and the
situations exemplifying it are both ineliminable components of the fact. Since clausally-
introduced propositions, on the denotation in (19), are of type 〈〈s, t〉, t〉, and clausally-
introduced situations, on the proposal in (29), are of type 〈e, t〉, for e the type of the base
event or state, both components of the fact are higher order.
	 It remains to explain why clausally-introduced events do not share in the referential
and semantic properties of clausally-introduced propositions, situations, and facts. On
a Davidsonian approach, as elaborated by Higginbotham (1985, 1989, 2000), Parsons
(1990), and others, clauses are assumed to introduce first order event constants, or first
order variables over events, through interpretive mechanisms built into the semantic
structure of the clause. One interpretation (simplified) of Bill dropped and broke the
vase, from (4) above, is that shown in (33).
186	 Michael Hegarty
	 (33)	 (∃e1) [drop (b, v, e1) ∧ break (b, v, e1)]
The clausally introduced event is therefore of type e, the type of a singular individual,
and there is no provision for type raising, that is, there is no evidence that we should re-
gard clausally-introduced events as anything other than singular individuals.
	 The semantic behavior of nominal constituents introducing propositions, facts, and
situations follows on the supposition that nominals, by virtue of syntactic form, invari-
ably introduce entities of type e. As a result, they coordinate as plurals, and fail to sup-
port the mass quantifier interpretation of quantity adverbs.
	 The difference in semantic type can also be appealed to as the basis for an explan-
ation of the referential accessibility data reviewed in section 1. The intuition behind
such an explanation is that clausally introduced events, along with entities of any sort
introduced by a nominal, have type e, and therefore have the status of ordinary individ-
uals for purposes of anaphoric reference, whereas clausally-introduced propositions,
facts, and situations are merely activated, not rendered in focus, by their introduction.
Having the semantic type e can be taken to be a precondition for being capable of being
in focus. A more specific proposal, developed in Hegarty (2006), is that type e is the
type of discourse pegs, in the sense of Landman (1986), and that clausally introduced
propositions, facts, and situations are introduced as type raised referents, and then
type shifted downward to type e upon subsequent mention, when they reduce to a dis-
course peg.
4.  Conclusion
The semantic type of an entity can depend on the syntactic expression used to intro-
duce the entity into a discourse, and on the nature of the entity itself. Following nom-
inal reference, an entity is a singular individual, of type e. Clausally-introduced events
are always of type e, but clausally-introduced propositions, situations, and facts, are
of higher semantic types. The higher types, in turn, depend on the nature of the entity.
Data regarding accessibility to pronominal reference, coordination as a singular sum,
and the availability of a mass quantifying interpretation of quantity adverbs for claus-
ally-introduced propositions implicate the higher-type principal filter interpretation
given in (19). Selectional facts suggest that clausally-introduced situations be under-
stood as situations with ramifications, and this conception, realized as in (29), is further
implicated by pronominal reference, coordination, and quantity adverb data parallel to
that observed for clausally-introduced propositions. Finally, clausally-introduced facts
exhibit the same referential and semantic properties; this falls into place when, adapt-
ing Kratzer’s analysis, we regard a fact as a situation exemplifying a proposition, and
therefore as referentially dual, having the denotation of a proposition or a situation
with ramifications, depending on the semantic context. Thus, the data available sup-
port quite detailed proposals regarding the semantic ontologies of these entities.
	 Context dependence and semantic types 187
	 The denotations given by (19) and (29) are radically dependent on discourse context.
In the denotation of a clausal argument α of a propositional predicate given in (19), the
generator proposition p is common across all discourse contexts which yield the same
referents of expressions internal to α, but even across those contexts, which have the
same “base” proposition p, the contextual entailments of p which make up the denota-
tion in (19) can vary wildly. The same is true of the denotation of a clausal argument α
of a situational predicate, given in (29), where the base event or state eo would remain
fixed across contexts in which the referents of expressions internal to α are fixed, but the
ramifications of eo could vary wildly across such contexts. This is not an aspect of the
classical conception of a proposition or situation denoted by a clause. Classically, refer-
ence in semantic theory to “the proposition denoted by a clause” or “the situation de-
noted by a clause” would be taken to be univocal once the referents of expressions inter-
nal to the clause were fixed.
References
Asher, Nicholas. 1993. Reference to Abstract Objects in Discourse. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic
Publishers.
Bartsch, Renate. 1973. “The semantics and syntax of number and numbers.” In Syntax and Se‑
mantics, V.2, P. Kimball, (ed.). New York: Academic Press.
Bennett, Michael. 1974. Some Extensions of a Montague Fragment of English. Doctoral disserta-
tion, University of California, Los Angeles.
Borthen, Kaja, Fretheim, Thorstein, and Gundel, Jeanette. K. 1997. “What brings a higher-order
entity into focus of attention?” In Operational Factors in Practical, Robust Anaphora Reso‑
lution. Proceedings of a Workshop at the 35th
Annual Meeting of the Association of Computa‑
tional Linguistics, R. Mitkov and B. Boguraev (eds.). Universidad Nacional de Educación a
Distancia, Madrid, Spain, 88–93.
Davidson, Donald. 1980. “The logical form of action sentences.” In Essays on Actions and Events.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 105–22.
von Fintel, Kai. 2003. “A minimal theory of adverbial quantification.” In Context-Dependence in
the Analysis of Linguistic Meaning, H. Kamp and B. H. Partee (eds.). Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Gettier, Edmund. 1963. “Is justified true belief knowledge?” Analysis 23: 121–3.
Goldman, Alvin I. 1967. “A causal theory of knowing.” Journal of Philosophy 64: 357–72.
Grosz, Barbara J., Joshi, Aravind K., and Weinstein, Scott. 1995. “Towards a computational the-
ory of discourse interpretation.” Computational Linguistics 21: 203–25.
Gundel, Jeanette K., Hedberg, Nancy, and Zacharski, Ron. 1993. “Cognitive status and the form
of referring expressions in discourse.” Language 69: 274–307.
Gundel, Jeanette K., Borthen, Kaja, and Fretheim, Thorstein. 1999. “The role of context in pro-
nominal reference to higher order entities in English and Norwegian.” In Modeling and
Using Context. Lecture notes in Artificial Intelligence, P. Bouquet et al. (eds.). Berlin: Sprin­
ger Verlag.
Gundel, Jeanette K., Hegarty, Michael, and Borthen, Kaja. 2003. “Cognitive status, information
structure, and pronominal reference to clausally introduced entities.” Journal of Logic, Lan‑
guage and Information 12: 281–99.
188	 Michael Hegarty
Hegarty, Michael. 2003. “Semantic types of abstract entities.” Lingua 113: 891–927.
Hegarty, Michael. 2006. “Type-shifting of entities in discourse.” In Where Semantics Meets Prag‑
matics. Current Research in the Semantics/Pragmatics Interface, Vol. 16, K. von Heusinger
and K. Turner (eds.). Amsterdam: Elsevier, 111–28.
Hegarty, Michael, Gundel, Jeanette K., and Borthen, Kaja. 2002. “Information structure and the
accessibility of clausally introduced referents.” Theoretical Linguistics 27(2–3):163–86.
Herburger, Elena. 2000. What Counts: Focus and Quantification. Cambridge, Massachusetts:
MIT Press.
Higginbotham, James. 1985. “On semantics.” Linguistic Inquiry 16: 547–93.
Higginbotham, James. 1989. “Elucidations of meaning.” Linguistics and Philosophy 12: 465–517.
Higginbotham, James. 2000. “On events in linguistic semantics.” In Speaking of Events,
J. Higginbotham, F. Pianesi, and A. C. Varzi (eds.). Oxford: Oxford University Press, 49–79.
Kratzer, Angelika. 2002. “Facts: Particulars or information units?” Linguistics and Philosophy
25: 655–70.
Lahiri, Utpal. 1991. Embedded Interrogatives and Predicates that Embed Them. Doctoral Disser-
tation, MIT.
Lahiri, Utpal. 2000. “Lexical selection and quantificational variability in embedded interroga-
tives.” Linguistics and Philosophy 23: 325–89.
Lahiri, Utpal. 2002. Questions and Answers in Embedded Contexts. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Landman, Fred. 1986. “Pegs and Alecs.” In Towards a Theory of Information: The Status of Partial
Objects in Semantics. Dordrecht: Foris.
McCloskey, James. 1991. “There, it, and agreement.” Linguistic Inquiry 22: 563–7.
Moltmann, Friederike. 1997. Parts and Wholes in Semantics. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Parsons, Terrence. 1990. Events in the Semantics of English: A Study in Subatomic Semantics.
Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press.
Scha, Remko. 1981. “Distributive, collective, and cumulative quantification.” In Formal Methods
in the Study of Language, J. Groenendijk, M. Stockhof, and T. M. V. Janssen, (eds). Amster-
dam: Mathematisch Centrum.
Schwarzschild, Roger. 1992. “Types of plural individuals.” Linguistics and Philosophy 15: 641–75.
Schwarzschild, Roger. 1996. Pluralities. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Vendler, Zeno. 1967. Linguistics in Philosophy. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
Walker, Marilyn A., Joshi, Aravind K., and Prince, Ellen F. (eds). 1998. Centering Theory in Dis‑
course. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Webber, Bonnie Lynn. 1988. “Discourse deixis and discourse processing.” Technical report, Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania.
Webber, Bonnie Lynn. 1991. “Structure and ostension in the interpretation of discourse deixis.”
Language and Cognitive Processes 6: 107–135.
chapter 9
Implicit internal arguments, event structure,
predication and anaphoric reference
Francis Cornish
University of Toulouse II
1.  Introduction
This chapter deals with zero or implicit internal arguments of predicates which may
take one or two internal arguments, realisable syntactically. There are three essential
issues concerning the possibility of occurrence and the type of interpretation of null
complements:
• 
First, what are the conditions under which they may occur with various types of tran-
sitive verbs?
• 
Second, what are the semantic and referential values which these null complements
may assume in different contexts?
•  Third, what are the principles which make these values possible?
Clearly, the occurrence of null complements needs to be licensed — it is not just any
English transitive verb, in any type of context, which may leave its direct and/or indir-
ect complement(s) unrealised syntactically. A satisfactory account of the possibility of
non-realisation of one or both of a predicate’s internal arguments syntactically, and
when this is possible, of the kind of interpretation they may receive, requires recogniz-
ing the existence of an interaction amongst lexical-semantic structure, the construction
selected as a whole, and various discourse-contextual factors. It is these issues which
I will be addressing in what follows.
 
*  I am very grateful to Christopher Butler, Anne Grobet, Daniel García Velasco, Denis Apoth-
éloz, Michelle Noailly, Nancy Hedberg, Ron Zacharski, Ricardo Mairal Usón, an initial anonym-
ous external reviewer and two anonymous John Benjamins’ reviewers for their careful read-
ing of earlier drafts of this chapter. A shorter, revised and formalised version of this chapter,
framed within the context of K. Hengeveld’s Functional Discourse Grammar model (published
as Cornish, 2005), was presented at the Seminar on Functional Discourse Grammar within the
7th
International Conference of the European Society for the Study of English, at the University
of Saragossa, Spain, on 9th September, 2004. Responsibility for the opinions expressed in the
present chapter, as well as for any remaining errors, is of course mine alone.
190	 Francis Cornish
	 I will start by distinguishing implicit (non-first) arguments in terms of a predicate’s
semantic valency in relation to the syntactic valency of the verb or adjective correspond-
ing to that predicate (§2), and will continue with an attempt to distinguish three seman-
tic or discourse-referential values assumable by null complements (§3). Section 4 then
examines one of the three sub-types of null complement isolated in §3 (the contextu-
ally-definite anaphoric subtype), and attempts to make precise its anaphoric potential,
as compared with that of unaccented third-person personal pronouns. It also examines
in detail the event-structural, and more generally, predicational, values which corre-
late with the presence of a null complement. Finally, section 5 attempts to arrive at cer-
tain generalisations motivating the three types of values isolated, both in terms of event
structure and of discourse-pragmatics.
2.  Semantic vs. syntactic valency and null complements
A distinction is needed at the outset between two conceptions of the notion “(non-first)
argument”: on the one hand, non-first arguments of the functor which represents the
sense of the predicate concerned within the lexical-semantic structure corresponding
to this predicate (such arguments may or may not be realisable syntactically). These are
thus semantic arguments; and on the other, non-first arguments of the lexical form of
the predicate concerned. These are by definition realisable syntactically in conjunction
with the lexical form concerned, and normally correspond to arguments of the func-
tor within the lexical-semantic structure associated with the lexical form as potential
predicator. They are thus syntactic arguments (cf. also Jackendoff 2002: 138–49 on this
important distinction). In the case of Simon Dik’s version of Functional Grammar (Dik
1997), the distinction is not explicitly or consistently drawn or followed (cf. Cornish
2002: 256–7), though it is drawn explicitly by Van Valin & LaPolla (1997: 27–8) in their
comparable model Role and Reference Grammar; see also their Table 4.1, p. 147. At the
discourse level, “semantic” internal unrealised arguments may or may not evoke a par-
ticular discourse referent. Examples (1) and (2) (see below) respectively, illustrate this
distinction.
	 (1)	 a.	 John saw the “No Entry” sign.
b.	 The postman placed the packet in the tray.
c.	 The car hit the railing.
In the case of the verbs in (1), the syntactically expressed internal arguments apparently
cannot be unrealised:
.  This is clearly highly language-specific, since the equivalent verb in other languages may well
allow its internal argument to be unexpressed syntactically, even under a specific, anaphoric
interpretation of the zero form. Huang (2000: 78) gives the following example from European
Portuguese:
	 Implicit internal arguments, event structure, predication and anaphoric reference 191
	 (1)	 a′.	 *John saw.
b′.	 *The postman placed.
c′.	 *The car hit.
Note however that, where the predicator see has its “understand” sense, where the in-
ternal argument is understood as a propositional content of some kind (a third-order
entity), the latter may well be unrealised, given a suitable context:
	 (1)	 a′′.	 A [Garage mechanic]: 
Your brake pads are completely worn. I’ll have to
replace them.
	 B [Motorist]: I see ø. How much will that cost?
This shows that the possibility or obligatoriness of realising a given argument is a func-
tion of the semantics of a given lexical predicate as well as of the argument concerned
(cf. Pustejovsky 1995), and not of its syntactic status qua lexical item. See also Levin &
Rappaport Hovav (2005: 18) on this point.
	 However, the 3-place predicate place is somewhat different from the 2-place predi-
cates see and hit, in that it may well occur in context without one of its “internal” argu-
ments being syntactically instantiated. This locative A3
argument then becomes ‘tacit’,
recoverable from the context of utterance of the clause involved. In this particular case
then, we see that the semantic and syntactic valencies of a predicate may diverge — its
syntactic valency being reduced to 2, while its semantic valency remains at 3. But even
transitive verbs like hit may occur in context with only their A1
(first argument) instan-
tiated, as in this attested example from the genre of journalism:
	 (1)	 c′′.	
[Context: article about a 1.3 kg meteorite which crashed into a New Zea-
land couple’s living room shortly before breakfast]
	
“…Even at that speed [several hundred metres per second] it would have
been moving fast enough to kill on the spot and the Archers’ one-year-
old grandson had been playing in the room moments before it hit ø.” (The
Guardian, 14.06.04, p. 2)
Note here that the inanimate pronoun it would not be appropriate as a substitute for the
null complement of hit in this example (it would tend to be interpreted as referring back
to ‘the room in which the Archers’ one-year-old grandson had been playing’).
	 (i)	 José sabe que Maria ø viu.
		 José knows that Maria saw
		 ‘José knows that Maria saw (him).’
In familiar spoken French, non-realisation of the internal argument of the equivalent verb voir
could not occur anaphorically in this tightly-integrated environment (within a complement
clause). However, it could well occur as such in a syntactically less integrated context:
	 (ii)	 Pierre a dit que Jeanne serait là ce soir, mais j’ai pas vu ø.
		 Pierre has said that Jeanne would be there this evening, but I have neg seen
		 ‘Pierre said that Jeanne would be here/there tonight, but I didn’t see (her).’
192	 Francis Cornish
	 (2)	 a.	 Mike sawed, and Mildred pruned.
b.	 Mary is pregnant.
c.	 Hilda read, while Jim wrote.
In (2), by contrast, one or more non-first argument(s) of the predicator have not been
realised (these are the “cognate” or highly expected arguments of the verb in each case):
the object sawed (typically a log or plank) and the instrument of the sawing, prototyp-
ically ‘a saw’ in (2a), ‘the baby with which Mary is pregnant’ in (2b), and ‘reading mat-
ter’ and ‘written matter’ (the product of the act of writing) in (2c). The verbs in (2a) and
(2c) are all “incremental-object” verbs (cf. van Hout 1999). But it would be a mistake
to believe that these predicates’ A2
in their transitive use has disappeared at the lexical-
semantic level when they are not realised syntactically, since it is quite possible for the
interlocutor to question this entity: … I wonder what Ron sawed/Mildred pruned? for
(2a), and …I wonder what Hilda read/Jim wrote? in (2c) (cf. Fillmore’s 1986 test).
	 Clearly in these cases, the non-instantiation of the A2
has had the effect of turning an
accomplishment predication (where all the predicates’ arguments are lexically instan-
tiated) into an activity one (where their non-instantiated A2
arguments are construed
as indeterminate or generic (see §3.1 for definitions of these terms)). It is by hypoth-
esis the highly specific selection restriction imposed on the instantiation of this argu-
ment position which is responsible for transferring this semantic property to the non-
instantiated argument positions.
This results in the understanding that, for example,
“Ron sawed logs” and “Mildred pruned roses” in an utterance of (2a), and that “Hilda
read books/magazines/newspapers” and “Jim wrote letters/his diary/articles” in one of
(2c) (the context of utterance is clearly responsible for delimiting the specific under-
standing of these null A2
s in such instances). In each case, though with the exception
of the first internal argument in (2a), oddity would arise if this unexpressed “cognate”
argument were to be realised without modification of some kind or other:
	 (2)	 a′.	 ?Mike sawed the log with a saw.
b′.	 ?Mary is pregnant with a baby/child.
c′.	 ?Hilda read reading matter, while Jim wrote written matter.
This would not be the case, however, if the cognate argument were modified in its syn-
tactic realisation (cf. Pustejovsky’s 1995: 63–7 notion of “shadow argument”). Clearly,
such shadow “cognate” or highly expected arguments form part of the lexical-semantic
structure of the predicates concerned, and as such correspond to what Mairal Usón &
Faber (2002) call “internal variables” (cf. also Van Valin & LaPolla 1997: 117–18): as-
pects of the meaning of a predicate which characterise the general lexical class of predi-
cates of which it is a member, and which do not need to be expressed syntactically.	
.  Compare Dik’s (1997a: §4.2.6) account of the operation of selection restrictions within stand-
ard FG.
	 Implicit internal arguments, event structure, predication and anaphoric reference 193
	 We may say that the first type of internal arguments represents part of the predicate’s
syntactic as well as its semantic valency, while the second type only constitutes part of
its semantic valency. On the discourse level, the latter may or may not evoke or retrieve
a discourse referent. The distinction between the two types of valency may be seen
most clearly in the structure of passive and middle verbs, where in the former case, the
prepositional agent phrase (…by NP) is most commonly considered to be an optional
adjunct syntactically (i.e. it is not part of the verb’s syntactic valency), but its referent is
nevertheless part of the semantic valency of the predicate at issue. In the case of middle
verbs, the agent phrase is (usually) not realised syntactically, though an agent is none-
theless part of these verbs’ semantic valency (cf. Mauner et al. 2002).
3.  The semantic and discourse-referential status of implicit arguments
A further distinction (a three-way one this time) is needed within the category of impli-
cit internal arguments itself, in terms of the semantic and discourse-referential prop-
erties and behaviour of the zero expression: that is, amongst non-referential (generic
or indeterminate), referential-(in)definite (discourse-new) and anaphoric (contextual-
ly definite) internal implicit arguments (cf. Fillmore 1986; Groefsema 1995; Noailly
1998a 1998b; Larjavaara 2000; García Velasco & Portero Muñoz 2002; Lambrecht &
Lemoine 2005; Mejri & François 2006; and others, for similar but not identical distinc-
tions).
3.1  Non-referential (generic or indeterminate) implicit arguments
In the first of these three uses, as we have seen, the non-realised A2
or A2
and A3
argument(s) of potentially transitive verbs, adjectives etc. may have a non-specific or
generic value — in which case the identification of the intended referent is communi-
catively unimportant, the speaker not having any particular object in mind. This phe-
nomenon is close to an “absolute” use of the predicate concerned, whereby it is virtual-
ly equivalent to an intransitive predicate, the focus being placed on the action, process
or state evoked via that predicate as applied to the referent of the subject expression.
However, the verb in question’s semantic valency will not have been affected by this
phenomenon, as Noailly (1998a: 377) points out in the case of French. It is only in syn‑
tactic terms that we can say that such uses are intransitive. In general, such occurrences
do not give rise to a discourse-referent at the level of discourse. What seems to happen
here is that the predicate’s selection restriction (part of its core sense) is simply trans-
ferred to the unrealised non-first argument, so that the latter assumes these very gen-
eral characteristics (“sawable objects—typically “logs” for saw and “trees, shrubs and/or
.  Examples seen so far would be the cognate arguments in (2a) and (2c) in §2.1 above. See also
Goldberg (2001) for further discussion in relation to English causative verbs.
194	 Francis Cornish
bushes” for prune in (2a), “reading matter” for read and “writing matter” for write in
(2c), for example).
	 Goldberg (2001: 512), like Lehrer (1970), also suggests an analysis in terms of se-
mantic selection restrictions, though in relation to English causative verbs. She con-
trasts the verbs recycle (where the object of the recycling is specifically ‘garbage’ of some
kind) and break, where, similar to cut or hit, the object broken is only understood as be-
ing a rigid, breakable object. Hence, according to Goldberg, the semantic contribution
of the Patient argument is too unpredictable for it to be unrealised syntactically:
	 (3)	 a.	 That man always recycles.
b.	 *That man always breaks. (Goldberg’s 2001 examples (22a, b), p. 512)
With regard to (3a) (a constructed example), I can vouch for its possibility of occur-
rence as an utterance-token, with the following attested example:
	 (3)	 a′.	
[Notice on individual dustbins on pavements in a street in Canterbury,
UK:]
	 “Recycling is so easy when it’s collected from your doorstep.”
As we will see below, the second argument of recycling (as in Goldberg’s example with
the predicate in verbal form, in (3a)), is an “inherent” argument, part of the meaning of
this predicate only; thus no discourse referent is evoked, and the pronoun it in the sec-
ond clause of the example has the same, generic, stereotypical referential value as does
this inherent argument. Note further here that recycle is an activity predicate aspectual-
ly, whereas break is an accomplishment when intransitive, and a causative accomplish-
ment when transitive, in Vendler’s (1967) typology of Aktionsart types. These categor-
ies will be important in what follows (see this section and section 4 in particular).
	 The restriction referred to above would explain the impossibility of the realisations
in (1a′–c′), since none of the verbs see, place or hit places any specific semantic selec-
tion restriction on its non-first argument(s) — but see the possible use of hit in the def-
inite past tense with a referential null complement in the attested example (1c′′). Note
also that while the sentences in (2) designate atelic situations (activities — (2a,c) and
a property (i.e. a state) — (2b)), those in (1) denote telic ones. As we shall be seeing in
more detail below, when the host verb is construed atelically, the non-realisation of the
relevant non-first argument(s) is generally possible. Examples already seen are those in
(2) as well as the occurrence of the normally accomplishment verb kill in (1c′′), which
is converted to an activity predicate via the non-specific predication in which it oc-
curs, as well as via the fact that its second argument is syntactically null. However, with
a telic interpretation (as in (1)), non-realisation is in principle only possible in English
where the host predicate imposes a specific selection restriction on the relevant internal
argument(s).
	 This non-referential subtype, then, corresponds to Lambrecht & Lemoine’s (2005)
type Indefinite Null Instantiation. The authors stress that the “unspecified” nature of
the reference of the null complement in such cases is not a purely lexical-semantic
	 Implicit internal arguments, event structure, predication and anaphoric reference 195
matter, but is a function of its “pragmatic construal” in discourse. The examples and
their analyses below would appear to confirm this view (see in particular the verbs in
example (5) below). An example is given by Groefsema (1995, ex. (4a)) in terms of the
verb to eat:
	 (4)	 #John brought the sandwiches but Ann didn’t eat ø — she ate the cakes instead.
In (4), the verb eat may be used intransitively, but with an A2
subject to a general selec-
tion restriction of the type <food>. In this use, the second conjunct of (4) would mean
that “Ann did not eat any unspecified food” (in other words, she didn’t eat anything at
all, whence the incoherence of the integration of the content of the last clause of this
fragment, which says that she ate some cakes). Thus there is no retrieval of the referent
‘the sandwiches which John brought’, and hence a restriction to just those foodstuffs. In
fact, given the “activity-focus” interpretation of eat here, we may say, as do Koenig &
Mauner (2000), that no real internal argument at all is involved here, the verb eat hav-
ing its “absolute” sense as a property-attributing predicate. Koenig & Mauner (2000)
would call the non-referring internal argument of eat in (4) an “a-definite”. An “a-defin-
ite” is an implicit argument which does not evoke a discourse referent, since it is neither
definite, nor indefinite, but partakes of both values simultaneously; all that such impli-
cit arguments do is satisfy the argument position of the predicate which they “fill”.
Van
Valin & LaPolla (1997: 123) call such arguments “inherent arguments”, a notion which
they define as follows: “… an argument which expresses an intrinsic facet of the mean-
ing of the verb and does not refer specifically to any participants in the event denoted
by the verb; it serves to characterise the nature of the action rather than to refer to any
of the participants.”
	 An attested example is the following advertisement in The Sunday Times for a mo-
tor show, involving four otherwise transitive verbs with unrealised second arguments
(here the indeterminate nature of the references in each case is clear):
	 (5)	 “See, try, admire or buy at London’s Motor Show.” (Advertisement, The Sun‑
day Times, 9.10.83, p. 9)
The types of things which the reader of the advertisement in (5) is enjoined to “see, try,
admire or buy” (note the imperative mood of these predications, which favours non-
realisation) are clearly new models of motor vehicles and their accessories, exhibited in
the Motor Show to which the utterance is referring. We thus have a set of—fairly gen-
eral, in all these instances—selection restrictions transferred by the senses of each of
the predicates involved to their non-instantiated A2
s, senses which are delimited to a
.  But see §4.1 below for an alternative analysis of this example. Groefsema prefixes this ex-
ample with an asterisk, which I have replaced with the crosshatch (since the example is not un-
grammatical qua sentence, but self-contradictory as an utterance).
.  The authors’ key example is the short passive, where the implicit internal argument is inter-
preted as the unspecified agent of the result of the action denoted: (1a) A ship was sunk.
196	 Francis Cornish
denotation type via the context in which the text occurs—an advertisement for a Motor
Show. Such arguments would not receive a macro-role in Van Valin & LaPolla’s (1997)
Role and Reference Grammar model, no discourse referent being introduced in order to
be the object of subsequent predications.
	 As Mejri & François (2006) point out, it is necessary to distinguish between indeter‑
minate (as I shall call this sub-type) and generic values of null complements. The type
in (3a′) (“Recycling is so easy when it’s collected from your doorstep.”) could be argued
to be generic, since the (initial) clause as a whole is generic: the tense is the (gnomic)
present, and the predication attributes a property to an event type as opposed to token.
Whereas in (5), the four predications are eventive, the conjuncts each being in the im-
perative mood, and the actions enjoined being located within a specific commercial
event. The null complements thus all have an indeterminate, rather than generic value
here. In both cases, it is the event (token or type) denoted by the verbal predicate which
is highlighted by the null complement realisation, its participants being backgrounded
thereby. See also the use of kill in (1c′′) (“…it would have been moving fast enough to
kill on the spot…”), whose null complement would appear to have an indeterminate
(human-denoting) value here (‘people, whoever they might be’).
	 One possible test of whether a zero expression as null complement of a given predi-
cate is interpreted as generic/indeterminate (“indefinite”, in Fillmore’s terminology)
or referential (anaphoric, in this case: “definite” for Fillmore) is proposed by Fillmore
(1986: 97):
	 (6)	 a.	 He was eating ______ ; I wonder what he was eating.
b.	 They found out ______ ; # I wonder what they found out.
That there is an internal argument here is indicated by the fact that it makes sense to ask
such a question in instances such as (6a): after all, with purely intransitive verbs (both
syntactically and semantically), such as die, a question of this sort would be absurd
(John died – *What did John die?). The indirect question in the second clause of (6a) is
semantically appropriate, however, since the nature of the food being eaten, as evoked
via the first clause, is unspecified and communicatively unimportant: the argument
is only “inherent”, in Van Valin & LaPolla’s (1997) terms, or “a-definite”, in those of
Koenig & Mauner (2000). In the case of the predicate find out in (6b), on the other hand,
the zero complement does have a contextually-identifiable (and thus ‘discourse-’) ref-
erent, which is presupposed to be known and highly accessible to the addressee at the
point of occurrence. Another reflex of the distinction lies in the fact that intransitive
eat in (6a) is an activity predicate which does not require any particular context for its
occurrence; while find out in (6b) is an achievement predicate in terms of Aktionsart,
which clearly does require a particular context for its occurrence to be felicitous (one in
which the intended referent of the null complement is made salient in some way). But
the test illustrated in (6) does not enable us to distinguish between generic/indetermi-
nate and discourse-new implicit arguments, as illustrated below in (7) and (8).
	 Implicit internal arguments, event structure, predication and anaphoric reference 197
3.2  Discourse-new referential implicit arguments
Another value assumable by implicit internal arguments is that of evoking a discourse
referent which may later be retrieved, under certain conditions, via an anaphor. This
value is termed a “latent object” (objet latent) by Larjavaara (2000) (Larjavaara 2000: 51
conflates under this term the discourse-new and the anaphoric use of such zero argu-
ments; what is crucial here is that the zero form’s intended referent be identifiable
by
the addressee, or at least that it be treated as such by the speaker. Whether or not it is sa-
lient at the point of occurrence in the co-text is immaterial). This corresponds to both
of Mejri & François’ (2006) subtypes “latent-identifiable” and “latent-identifiable and
salient”. It corresponds in part to Lambrecht & Lemoine’s (2005) type Free Null Instanti‑
ation, where “the referent can be either specific or non-specific, the choice of interpret-
ation being left up to the hearer” (MS. p. 5). The first conjunct of (7) below provides an
initial example:
	 (7)	 I wrote ø to you a week ago, you know, but you never answered ø!
In (7), the context indicates that the verb write is being used in its “correspond” sense;
the predicate at issue therefore has three arguments, the second of which is unrealised
syntactically. This non-instantiated A2
argument (‘a letter sent by the speaker to his/her
interlocutor a week before the time of utterance’) is clearly referential, owing to the def-
inite past tense chosen here, and the reference to a specific event which occurred prior
to the utterance of (7). It is equally clearly discourse-new, being an introductory refer-
ence (even though the intended addressee may already be aware of the existence of
such a letter), the referent constituting discourse-new information in context. Unlike
the “generic/indeterminate” values of null complements seen in §3.1, the “referential-
(in)definite” use does introduce a discourse referent (and would clearly warrant the as-
signment of a “macro-role” in terms of RRG). See also the example given in (13a) in
sub-section 4.1 below, where the zero complement would correspond to a definite, but
not indefinite, NP.
	 Other examples of discourse-new null complements can be found in deictic occur-
rences, where the referent is potentially available to the addressee from within the utter-
ance context, but not yet salient (i.e. topic-worthy). Typically, such instances occur in
imperative contexts, where the interlocutive relationship is highly constrained:
.  “Identifiable” only after the clause has been processed, however, since this occurrence would
be substitutable in context by an indefinite, but not a definite, NP (I am indebted to Nancy Hed-
berg for pointing this out). As such, this occurrence would correspond to the cognitive status
“referential” in the Gundel, Hedberg & Zacharski (1993: 276) “Givenness Hierarchy” (see §5.2
for further discussion), defined as follows: “the addressee must either retrieve an existing rep-
resentation of the speaker’s intended referent or construct a new representation by the time the
sentence has been processed.”
198	 Francis Cornish
	 (8)	 Eat ø!/Watch ø!/Mind ø!/Smell ø!/Taste ø!
In each such case, the interlocutor’s attention is being specifically drawn to the thing or
event involved, which is available within the situational context. As such, it is thereby
made salient for both participants.
3.3  Anaphoric (contextually-definite) implicit internal arguments
A third possibility is where the implicit A2
argument is not only referential, as in the
case of the null A2
complement of wrote in (7) above, but anaphoric. The second non-
instantiated A2
argument in (7), the referent of the null complement of answered in
the second conjunct, is contextually definite, in contrast, as it is construed as referring
back anaphorically to the letter introduced by the null complement in the initial con-
junct. Fillmore’s (1986) test for “indefinite” (non-referential, of the type seen in §3.1
above) null complements would be clearly negative here: …#I wonder what you never
answered (see also examples (1a′′B) and (1c′′)). This subtype corresponds in part
to
Lambrecht & Lemoine’s (2005) type Definite Null Instantiation.
	 Given that I include under the heading “anaphora” exophoric uses of potentially
anaphoric expressions,
I would subsume under this value such uses of zero comple-
ments—as in the case of labels on bottles of pharmaceutical products, instructions for
use etc. of the type: Take ø with precaution (label on bottle of medicinal pills); Break ø in
an emergency (instruction displayed on a glass panel behind which is placed an alarm).
The host verbs in such examples are in the imperative mood, like the deictic examples
in (8). However, it is clear that the intended referent of the zeros in such ‘label’ cases is
not only identifiable, but salient and (potentially) topical: the addressee’s attention is as-
sumed, in such “caption-like” instances, to be already centred on the object on or un-
der which the notice is placed. Thus the implicit argument is contextually-definite, and
the reference is anaphoric (cf. the infelicitous queries: #…I wonder what should be taken
with precaution/#…I wonder what should be broken in an emergency, respectively).
	 As a further example, let us give the second member of the minimal pair of examples
presented by Groefsema (1995) (her (4b)):
	 (9)	 The guide left but the tourists didn’t follow ø — they followed the courier in-
stead.
In (9), unlike the use of eat illustrated in (4), the zero form with which the verb follow is
constructed in the second conjunct may well retrieve the contextually definite referent
‘the guide who left’, since, according to Groefsema (1995), in the lexical-semantic struc-
.  I say “in part”, since Lambrecht & Lemoine make clear that their category “Definite Null In-
stantiation” covers not only anaphoric, but also discourse-new, identifiable referents of the zero
complement. Thus, such zero complements would not be substitutable by an unaccented pro-
noun, but rather by a relevant definite full NP.
.  See Cornish (1999: ch. 4) for arguments in favour of this move.
	 Implicit internal arguments, event structure, predication and anaphoric reference 199
ture of this verb there is a selection restriction which requires a particular occurrence of
a thing (here it is an event) corresponding to a given type. Follow would thus be a verb
allowing a definite (and not indefinite) null complement, in Fillmore’s terms. Fillmore’s
(1986) test given under (6) is again negative here, as with his example verb find out: The
guide left but the tourists didn’t follow ___ ; # I wonder who they didn’t follow.
4. 
The anaphoric potential of null complements, event structure
and predication
4.1  Interpretative values of complement zeros vs. overt object pronouns
Concentrating from now on essentially upon the contextually-definite, anaphoric
function of null complements, we can say, first of all, on the basis of the discussion in
sections 2 and 3, that this is possible in English under two main conditions: first, there
must exist a specific selection restriction upon the non-first argument(s) subject to non
realisation in terms of syntax. The second condition is evidently that the null comple-
ment’s referent be contextually salient and topical, a condition generally holding on the
existence of anaphora; however, in the case of English, this condition is only a necessary,
and not a sufficient one, as example (10) clearly indicates.
	 (10)	 Martin liked the look of the pair of walking shoes displayed in the store win-
dow: he went and bought *ø/them without trying *ø/them on.
Here, the verb buy is used in the definite past tense, and the reference is clearly to a spe-
cific occasion of buying something — a pair of walking shoes — and of not trying that
something on. But even though this referent is contextually salient as well as topic-
al, this is not sufficient to permit the non-instantiation of the internal argument of the
two verbs concerned under an anaphoric (coreferential) reading.
It would seem to be
the non-specific nature of the selection restriction associated with the lexical-semantic
structure of these verbs which prevents this type of functioning. The verbs buy and try
onseemtohaveonlyverygeneralselectionrestrictions(respectively,<commodity>and
<clothing>). In spontaneous spoken French, however, the equivalent verbs may well oc-
cur with a null complement, under an anaphoric interpretation: see the French equiva-
lent of the final clause in (10): …Il est allé ø/les acheter sans ø/les essayer. Familiar spo-
ken French allows non-expression of non-first arguments of verbs much more freely
than does English (cf. Lambrecht & Lemoine 2005). In English, only an overt pronoun
may normally occur as complement of the verbs in such a context.
	 What now of the difference in behaviour of null complements and unaccented overt
pronouns, where either type is possible? In this respect, Groefsema (1995: 156) gives a
.  See also the ill-formed examples of 2- or 3-place achievement or accomplishment verbs with
null complements in (1) above — where the tense is also the definite past, and the intended ref-
erent of the null complement may also be contextually salient.
200	 Francis Cornish
telling minimal pair, but which she does not further analyse. Here the null complement
in (11a) is “indefinite” (though still anaphoric) and not contextually definite:
	 (11)	 a.	 John picked up the glass of beer and drank ø.
b.	 John picked up the glass of beer and drank it.
In (11a), what John is said to have drunk is some, not necessarily all, of the beer in the
glass evoked via the initial conjunct (i.e. the null complement entails a partitive reading
here). The zero is anaphoric, but the null instantiation of this predicate’s A2
has had the
effect of changing the accomplishment Aktionsart evident in (11b) with the pronoun
into an activity predication. In (11b), by contrast, John is stated as having drunk all of
the beer in the glass (the overt pronoun enabling the accomplishment event structure
to be specified, and inducing a holistic interpretation). The anaphoric, and not “inde-
terminate”, non-referential value of the zero in (11a) is determined by the fact that the
two conjuncts of this example designate a sequence of two specific events (note the def-
inite past tense borne by the verbs in each conjunct) which each form an integral part
of a more global event.
	 Groefsema’s analysis of the null complement evident in (11a) highlights the fact that
the verb drink does not place any specific selection restriction upon its internal ar-
gument (technically, in terms of Jackendoff’s 1990 Lexical–Conceptual model), other
than that it be a THING (type of entity) of the type “liquid” — but certainly not an “in-
stance” of a THING (i.e. a token or occurrence of a THING). However, the reader of
(11a) will certainly understand the null complement of drank as referring to (a quantity
of) the beer evoked in the initial conjunct, and not of any unspecified type of beverage.
	 Lehrer (1970: 245) gives a similar minimal pair involving the verb drink, but the
interpretation possibilities associated with the use of the null complement versus the
pronoun are rather different:
	 (12)	 a.	 John drinks only gin, but I won’t drink.10
b.	
John drinks only gin, but I won’t drink it. (Lehrer 1970: exx. (67) and (68),
p. 245)
For Lehrer (1970: 245), the interpretation of the null complement in (12a) is the generic
one ‘alcoholic beverage’, and not ‘gin’ as such. This is the default interpretation associ-
ated with the ‘absolute’ use of intransitive drink (the domain of ‘alcoholic drinks’ is set
by the reference to “gin” in the initial conjunct). In (12a), unlike (11a), there is no (par-
titive) anaphoric interpretation available for the zero complement of drink, since each
predication denotes an atemporal property (via the simple present tense in each con-
junct and the lack of an article in the NP gin), the second property holding independ-
10.  Note that this utterance is not fully acceptable as it stands. A more natural rendering of the
second conjunct would involve replacing the negative modal auxiliary won’t by the neutral don’t,
expressing a more objective property of the subject referent, and adding the negative emphatic
particle at all: …but I don’t drink at all.
	 Implicit internal arguments, event structure, predication and anaphoric reference 201
ently of the first. Thus the predication in the second conjunct of (12a) does not continue
the situation established in the first, and so the null complement is not anaphoric in val-
ue (see Kleiber 1994: ch. 3). We thus have the generic value, delimited via the reference
to ‘gin’ in the initial conjunct to ‘alcoholic beverages’, which we saw in §3.1 (see also ex-
ample (3a′) above). In contrast, in (12b) the definite pronoun is anaphoric, and refers to
the type of alcoholic beverage mentioned in the initial conjunct, namely ‘gin’.
	 The situation represented by (11) seems somewhat different, then, from the osten-
sibly identical example (4) involving the verb eat (also one of Groefsema’s examples),
where it was claimed that the zero complement of the latter verb is purely non-refer-
ential in value (as in Lehrer’s example (12a) above), and could not retrieve the refer-
ent ‘the sandwiches’ evoked in the initial conjunct of (4). Fillmore’s (1986) test of non-
specificity would be negative in the case of (11a) (#…but I wonder what he drank).
It would seem, from examination of just these two transitive/intransitive verbs, that
Lambrecht & Lemoine’s (2005) intermediate category “Free Null Instantiation” would
be relevant as a characterisation of their potential uses — either a specific, anaphoric,
or a non-specific, quasi-generic interpretation being possible for the complements of
such verbs.
	 I would argue that this systematic difference in interpretation arises because of the
fact that overt pronouns are nominals which, because of their inherent definiteness and
(potential, at least) referentiality, change the Aktionsart of the verb whose second ar-
gument they instantiate, from an atelic activity into a telic accomplishment. Thus with
definite complement pronouns, the emphasis is no longer on the activity of drinking
(or eating), but on the nature of the thing drunk (or eaten). But this may also be the case
even with “incremental-object” verbs like eat and drink, whose Patient argument is un-
derstood to be progressively affected by the process involved, even when their second
argument is unexpressed syntactically. Compare (13a) and (13b) in this respect:11
	 (13)	 a.	 Mary ate ø at noon.
b.	 The waiter served the main course. Mary ate ø hungrily.
In both (13a) and (13b), the tense is the definite past, and the reference is to a specific
event which occurred prior to the act of utterance. The null instantiation of the A2
in
(13a) induces the basic, characteristic activity interpretation of the verb,12
but the pres-
ence of the contextualising PP at noon overlays this reading with the culture-specific
stereotype ‘midday meal’ as the frame in which the event denoted is to be set, so that
11.  I am indebted to the initial anonymous external reviewer for example (13a) and its rele-
vance to the point at issue here.
12.  See Van Valin & LaPolla (1997: 112) for arguments that verbs of consumption such as eat
and drink are basically activity verbs in terms of Aktionsart, which may be used transitively as
accomplishment predicates. See also Mittwoch (1982) on the difference in Aktionsart between
eat and eat something.
202	 Francis Cornish
the predication as a whole is telic, and not atelic via non-instantiation of the A2
. This is
clearly a referential instance, but a “discourse-new” one rather than an anaphoric, con-
text-bound instance. It is a frame-based occurrence, trading on the cultural knowledge
that meals (in most Western societies) normally take place at or around noon every
day.
	 But in (13b), the presence of the manner adverb hungrily highlights the basic activ-
ity sense corresponding to the predicate’s inherent value (since it directly modifies the
activity subeventual structure underlying this predicate lexical-semantically). There is
no implicature available such that Mary actually finished eating the main course which
she has been served. Thus the zero has the indeterminate, non-referential value which
we saw in the case of the verbs in (2) and (5). If we apply Fillmore’s “I wonder what X V-
ed” test, it is positive in (13b) (“I wonder what Mary ate”), but negative in (13a) (with
the predicted response “#She ate a midday meal”; however, with the type of response
expected and normal for the same query on (13b) — e.g. “… chicken and noodles” —it is
positive). The bounded/non-bounded adverbial tests also discriminate the two occur-
rences: for (13a) Mary ate ø at noon ?#for ages/in an hour; and for (13b) Mary ate ø hun‑
grily for ages/#in an hour.
	 With hindsight, it appears that what prevented the null complement of eat in (4)
from functioning anaphorically was the fact that it occurred in the scope of the nega-
tion, preceded by the expectation-denying conjunction but. If we remove these two
elements, the anaphoric interpretation is not only possible, but highly expected:
	 (4′)	 John brought the sandwiches, and Ann ate hungrily.
Here, the same “partitive” interpretation seems to come to the fore as in the case of the
null complement of drank in (11a): that is, we understand in (4′) that WHAT Ann ate
were the sandwiches which John brought, but that she didn’t necessarily eat all of the
sandwiches that he brought — only some of them. This seems to contradict Groefsema’s
(1995) prediction here, as well as an identical one made for this verb by Van Valin & La-
Polla (1997: 122) using a very similar example.
	 However, as in the case of the use of the overt pronoun it in (11b), if we replace the
zero complement in (4′) by the overt pronoun them, then the same holistic interpret-
ation as in (11b) naturally presents itself. The situation is thus somewhat more subtle
than Groefsema (1995) implies, since it clearly involves a complex interaction between
lexical-semantics, syntactic realisation (or non-realisation, as the case may be) and dis-
course function (cf. also Goldberg 2001).
4.2 
The roles of Aktionsart and event structure: “content”
vs. “(event-) structural” arguments
Rappaport Hovav & Levin (1998: 104ff.) and Brisson (1994) also claim that it is the as-
pectual structure of the verbal predicates concerned which determines whether or not
their A2
argument may be left unrealised: however, it is not the static, inherent lexical-
	 Implicit internal arguments, event structure, predication and anaphoric reference 203
semantics of each individual verb which is relevant here, but the compositional seman-
tics of the predicative unit as a whole (verb + possible extra adverbial element) — see
also Ritter & Thomas Rosen (1998) and Van Hout (1999), as well as the contrast be-
tween (13a) and (13b) above. See Rothstein (2004) on lexical aspect and event structure
more generally.
	 Both Brisson and Rappaport Hovav & Levin claim that the non-realisation of in-
ternal arguments is only possible when the argument at issue is a “content”, and not
a “structural” one. The distinction involves that between the aspectual or “event struc-
ture” of the sentence as a whole, where the participants involved are “structural par-
ticipants”, and the lexically-specific content of the predicate which “heads” that struc-
ture. This predicate brings with it a certain array of arguments in terms of its meaning:
these are the “content” arguments. Thus there may be a discrepancy between the two
types of structure. Brisson argues that (“activity”) verbs of the type illustrated by sweep
(plough, pack, dust, vacuum, clean, mow, rake…) may occur with either a durative or a
bounded time adverbial,13
whether with or without a syntactically-realised object NP,
and whether this NP is definite or indefinite. This would give the predicate ‘sweep’ (as
well as the others in its class) the “content” structure sweep (x,y) but the event structure
‘activity (x)’. From Brisson’s account, we may infer that the ‘y’ argument in the content
structure is more or less totally determined by the meaning of this predicate (stereotyp-
ically, a ‘floor’ of some kind) — an “inherent” or “a-definite” argument, then; whereas,
given that this verb is basically an activity predicate (as indicated by the various tests
applied to it), there would be no second, A2
argument at this event-structural level at all
(in Van Valin & LaPolla’s 1997 terminology, the predicate’s content A2
argument would
not correspond to a “macro-role”; the verb in question would thus be “M-intransitive”,
bearing only one macro-role argument). Now, given that this is the case, the sole A2
“content” argument, not being a “structural” one, need not be realised syntactically — so
long as its essential content is contextually recoverable. This is the case with verbs of the
type represented by sweep, where general knowledge tells us that it is typically ‘floors’
that are swept (see also plough → ‘fields’, pack → ‘suitcases’, dust → ‘furniture’, vacuum
→ ‘carpets’, clean → ‘artefacts’, mow → ‘lawns’, rake → ‘leaves’, etc.). This general class of
predicates is characterised by Rappaport Hovav & Levin (1998: 99) as “verbs of surface
contact through motion”. The situation described here would seem to characterise the
first type of non-realisation of A2
arguments seen above in §3.1 (the non-referential ge-
neric/indeterminate argument type).
	 On the other hand, where a given predicate has a causative accomplishment or
achievement interpretation, there is necessarily a binary event structure involved, con-
sisting of a causing event (an activity) and a resulting state. Thus there are inevitably
two structural arguments, both of which must be realised syntactically, according to
13.  However, my feeling is that examples like Brisson’s (unstarred) (9b) (p. 91) Jack swept in an
hour are not fully acceptable. One of the editors of this volume, Nancy Hedberg (p.c.), indicated
agreement with this judgement.
204	 Francis Cornish
these authors. This would explain then why such predicates (for example, English break,
as we have seen) cannot leave their A2
argument unrealised. Break is an “externally-
caused change of state verb”, according to Rappaport Hovav & Levin (1998: 99). The
content structure of (intransitive) break would then be break (x,y), and its event struc-
ture ‘activity (x) CAUSE [BECOME broken y]’, where broken represents both the essen-
tial content of the (intransitive) predicate ‘break’ and its status as ‘resulting state’ of the
macro-event involved here.14
See Van Valin & LaPolla’s (1997: 107) representation of
the Aktionsart structure of causative break in their example (3.24). It can be argued that
the intransitive, inchoative use of break (as in The vase broke) is more basic, and that the
transitive-causative use is derived from it by rule. I have attempted to formalise these
two types of structure under (14a and b) below, drawing inspiration from the notation
system used in Van Valin & LaPolla (1997).15
	 (14)	 a.	
“Content structure” of core sense of break, after Brisson (1994) and Rap-
paport Hovav & Levin (1998):
	 BECOME ¬ intact’ (y) ((partially_)rigid_object, y)
b.	
“Event structure” of break, after Brisson (1994) and Rappaport Hovav &
Levin (1998):
	
[[activity (x)] CAUSE [BECOME ¬ intact’ (y) ((partially_)rigid_object,
y)]]
Brisson’s (1994: 97) two licensing conditions on the possibility of unexpressed objects
are given below:
	 (15)	 a.	
Grammatical licensing condition: structure arguments must be ex-
pressed. (Brisson 1994: (24))
b.	
Contextual licensing condition: the unexpressed object must be under-
stood. (Brisson 1994: (25))
	 Rappaport Hovav & Levin (1998) formalise and further develop Brisson’s essential
insights. They propose two well-formedness conditions on the syntactic realisation of
event structures, as follows:
	 (16)	 Subevent Identification Condition
Each subevent in the event structure must be identified by a lexical head (e.g.
a V, A or P) in the syntax. (Rappaport Hovav & Levin 1998: 112)
14.  I have inserted the abstract operators CAUSE and BECOME here, as well as the square
brackets, which Brisson does not do; indeed, she does not represent the structure of break in
her article.
15.  The segment in parenthesis following ‘¬ intact’ (y)’ is intended to capture the selection re-
striction imposed on its single argument by the meaning of this predicate. For the inchoative
‘activity’ or ‘process’ value, the segment preceding the operator BECOME in (14b) would not be
instantiated.
	 Implicit internal arguments, event structure, predication and anaphoric reference 205
	 (17)	 Argument Realization Condition
a.	
There must be an argument XP in the syntax for each structure partici-
pant in the event structure.
b.	
Each argument XP in the syntax must be associated with an identified
subevent in the event structure. (Rappaport Hovav & Levin 1998: 113)
Condition (17a) makes more precise Brisson’s (1994) “Grammatical licensing condi-
tion” given under (15a) above; while Condition (17b) ensures that all argument expres-
sions in the syntactic realisation be relatable to a predicate corresponding to an iden-
tifiable subevent in the event structure associated with the sentence. Condition (16)
completes the picture, in that it ensures that each predicate marking a subevent in the
event structure be relatable to a relevant lexical head.
	 However, it would seem that these conditions are much too rigid and absolute: they
do not take enough account of the surrounding co-text or context of occurrence of the
verbal predicates at issue here — i.e. of the way in which these predicates are actually
used. If we take the (causative accomplishment) verbal predicate break as a typical verb
having a binary event structure, with either one or two content and two structural ar-
guments, the prediction is that non-realisation of the A2
argument is excluded — as we
have seen. In the case of the non-referential generic or indeterminate use of the verb,
of course, the authors could claim that what we have is an activity, such that there is no
longer a second structural argument since the binary event structure is no longer avail-
able. This could occur in the following kind of situation: imagine a warehouse full of
trestle tables on which are piled substandard mass-produced cups, plates and saucers
etc., all containing imperfections of one kind or another. Members of the public are in-
vited to break these items into pieces, so that they can more easily be recycled. On the
entrance to the warehouse is pinned a large notice, with the words:
	 (18)	 Break ø to your heart’s content!
Clearly, this would correspond to the indeterminate, “absolute” use of transitive verbs
with unrealised complements that we saw in §3.1, with the context-of-utterance de-
limiting the type of things to be broken as items of reject crockery on the tables in the
warehouse. As already noted, this use would not constitute a counter-example to Bris-
son’s and Rappaport Hovav & Levin’s constraints (since in this usage, break and similar
verbs would be activity and no longer achievement or accomplishment predicates; as
such, they would be only unary event (i.e. activity) predicates). But there are two other
possibilities with break. The first is the possible deictic use which we briefly saw in §3.2,
where the null complement of break has a referent available via the utterance situation.
As an example, consider again the “reject” crockery situation evoked a moment ago. Im-
agine a situation where a member of the public has entered the warehouse and has been
merrily smashing plates, cups and saucers for the last 20 minutes. Suddenly, he comes
upon a large bowl with an attractive design, which doesn’t seem to him to be in too poor
a condition. As he holds it up to examine it, the attendant walks towards him and says:
206	 Francis Cornish
	 (19)	 Come on now, break ø! They’ve all got to go, you know!
Here, the referent is clearly present, both at the semantic and the discourse-representa-
tional levels — and yet the second “structural” argument is syntactically null, contrary
to conditions (15a) and (17a). I believe (19) could correspond to a deictic and not pure-
ly anaphoric use of the null complement (though such an interpretation is also possible
here), since the addressee is tacitly querying the status of the intended referent. If an
overt pronoun were to be used in place of the zero complement here, I believe it would
be the demonstrative pronoun that rather than the (purely anaphoric) third-person
pronoun it (which is of course also possible under a purely anaphoric interpretation):
thus it consists in introducing the referent qua “non-breakworthy” item of crockery in
this context. This is the essential function of deixis, under the conception I adopt (see
Cornish 1999: §2.3 and Ch. 4). Granted, there are “extenuating” circumstances here, in-
dependently motivating the null complement of break, since this type of occurrence is
restricted to the type of highly modalised context represented by the imperative mood
in (19).
	 But there is a second type of counterexample to these stipulations, falling within the
third of the three cases outlined in section 3 (§3.3). This is the “exophoric” use of predi-
cates like break, which I claimed come under the anaphoric, context-bound use (as in
the notice Break ø in an emergency displayed above a glass panel covering an alarm han-
dle). Here too there is an argument at the lexical-semantic level as well as a discourse-
referent at the level of discourse. Again, the possibility of such occurrences is a coun-
terexample to stipulations (15a) and (17a).
	 In all three types of example involving break with a null complement, the clause is
in the imperative mood. This is no accident, in fact. What this mood induces (contra-
ry to the declarative mood, in particular) is a focusing of attention on the object of the
command — the speech-act type typically correlating with the imperative form. This
serves, then, to enhance psychologically, i.e. to ‘profile’, the entity at issue, and thus to
allow it to be unrealised syntactically. Though the mood is not imperative in examples
like (20) below (suggested to me by one of the editors of this volume, Nancy Hedberg),
(causative) accomplishment verbs like cut would nevertheless appear to allow their A2
to be unrealised syntactically, here with a context-bound, partitive anaphoric inter-
pretation.
	 (20)	 Mary helped me make paper dolls. She coloured and I cut.
As Nancy Hedberg (p.c.) points out, the second sentence here clearly denotes a (com-
plex) activity — but as such, of course, it would not be a counterexample to Brisson’s
and Rappaport Hovav & Levin’s conditions on syntactic non-realisation: the referent of
the null complements of the two verbs is contextually recoverable (‘(parts of) the paper
out of which Mary and the speaker are making paper dolls’) — see Brisson’s (1994) sec-
ond condition (15b) above. The example would appear to be parallel to (11a), since the
event structure is an activity one, and the event denoted in the second clause continues
	 Implicit internal arguments, event structure, predication and anaphoric reference 207
(or is an exemplification of) that evoked by the first; the zero complements involved are
thus identity-of-sense anaphors, retrieving the referent ‘parts of the paper used to make
the paper dolls’. Thus, although the verb’s two content arguments are present, in terms
of the event structure of the clause as a whole the predicates at issue are unary (“M-in-
transitive”, in Van Valin & LaPolla’s 1997 terms, the second argument not correspond-
ing to a “macro-role”), and conditions (15a) and (17a) are satisfied.
5. 
Taking stock: the role of the host predication in the licensing
of null complements, and their correlations with “cognitive statuses”
Let us try now to assess the situation, and arrive at a set of principles enabling us to pre-
dict both whether a transitive predicate’s A2
, or A2
and A3
may be unrealised syntactic-
ally, and if so what their type of interpretation will be. Clearly, the occurrence of null
complements in English needs to be licensed (we have already seen that the principles
lying behind this licensing in the case of English are stricter than in that of spontaneous
spoken French, to take just this example): for it is clearly not just any transitive verb, in
any type of context, which may leave its A2
, or A2
and A3
, unrealised syntactically. More
precisely, there are two main questions to be addressed here, as outlined in the Intro-
duction:
	 (1)	 Under what circumstances may a predicate’s A2
, or A2
and A3
, be unrealised
syntactically?
	 (2)	 What determines whether these unrealised arguments will receive a non-ref-
erential (generic or indeterminate) interpretation, or a referential discourse-
new reading, or an anaphoric one?
Clearly, these questions are linked. Thus, an answer to question 2 will enable us to pro-
vide an answer to question 1. Let’s take question 1 first, but taking into account consid-
erations relating to question 2.
5.1  Aktionsart, event structure and selection restrictions
First of all, it is clear that it is easier for a null complement to occur with an otherwise
syntactically-transitive predicate in English when it can be interpreted non-referential-
ly — “generically” or “indeterminately” — than when it is to be understood referentially
(in either the discourse-new or anaphoric use). This is evident from a comparison be-
tween (5) and (10), reproduced below for convenience.
	 (5)	 “See, try, admire or buy at London’s Motor Show.”
	 (10)	 Martin liked the look of the pair of walking shoes displayed in the store win-
dow: he went and bought *ø/them without trying *ø/them on.
208	 Francis Cornish
In (5), the transitive verbs used “absolutely” occur within an atelic utterance, where
the verbs are in the (imperfective) present tense. The predications are thus all atelic,
and the implicit arguments are understood in terms of the selection restrictions of the
predicates at issue, a denotation which as we have seen is delimited by the context of
utterance of the clause concerned. No discourse referent is evoked. We may say then
that, in principle, any syntactically transitive verb, when occurring in a non-perfec-
tive tense-aspect within an atelic or generic clause (or one which in context can be
interpreted as atelic or generic), may allow its non-first argument(s) to be unrealised
syntactically — but only insofar as there exists a socio-cultural stereotype which can li-
cense such a conceptual category. One test of the existence of such an argument type
is the naturalness of an indirect question posed regarding the nature of this argument
(cf. …I wonder what X V-ed/-s). If in the context of the utterance containing the null
complement it is natural to pose such a question, then first, there must be an argument
of some kind; and second, the argument in question is either generic (non-specific) or
indeterminate in reference. In both such cases, it makes sense to query this entity, pre-
cisely because it is indeterminate, or non-specific. In neither of the other two types of
value is it natural to question the implicit argument.
	 In example (10), by contrast, the verb buy appears in the simple past tense in a pred-
ication which designates a specific occurrence of an action. As we have seen, even
though the intended referent is contextually identifiable and salient and topical at the
point of occurrence, the complement of buy cannot be null under this construal. We
have ascribed this impossibility to the lack of a specific selection restriction imposed
on this argument position by the lexical-semantics of this predicate (one can “buy” all
sorts of physical objects, conceived as “commodities” of one kind or another).
	 On the other hand, where a transitive predicate’s “internal” selection restrictions are
specific, this, in conjunction with the context-boundness (and saliency, when an ana-
phoric occurrence is at issue) of the intended referent, may be sufficient for the null
complement to occur. This is illustrated in example (7) (I wrote to you a week ago, you
know…) where the predicate write (an accomplishment predicate) in the context of
an exchange of correspondence between speaker and addressee, imposes a sufficiently
specific selection restriction upon the A2
argument for the referent to be identifiable
in context (in the sense specified in note 6). Write, like drink, is an ‘incremental-object’
verb (cf. van Hout 1999), whereby the existence of the thing(s) written (or drunk) in-
creases in proportion to the time over which these predicates obtain.
	 The interaction between the intrinsic aspectual properties of host predicates, on the
one hand, and the event-structure of the containing clause as a whole (together with
aspects of the context of utterance, including the availability of culturally-specific ster-
eotypes) would seem to operate as follows. Aspectually, activity verbs (including incre-
mental-object predicates) may occur with a null complement bearing a referential val-
ue when the co(n)text is such as to induce a specific, time-bound event. This is the case
in (13a), where the temporal-locative adverb at noon, coupled with the choice of the
definite past tense, induces a referential construal of the null complement of ate, there-
	 Implicit internal arguments, event structure, predication and anaphoric reference 209
by introducing the discourse-new referent ‘Mary’s midday meal’ into the discourse.
Ate is still an activity predicate, but the predication as a whole takes on an accomplish-
ment aspectual value, as when this verb’s second argument is lexically instantiated via a
definite referential NP.
	 Conversely, state, accomplishment and achievement verbs involving direct contact
(physical, communicational, visual or mental) entail the immediate presence of the
entity involved as a whole. Where the verb at issue is not one of consumption or dura-
tive creation, there is no gradual, progressive application of the predicate to the entity,
or resulting in the appearance or disappearance of the entity. Thus in the absence of
relevant context, there is no “activity” induced via the non-realisation of these predi-
cates’ A2
. Hence, the expected value of the null complement in these cases is in terms
of one of the two referential (discourse-new or anaphoric) interpretations. Yet, as with
activity predicates, the co(n)text may induce an opposite aspectual value (here, an ac-
tivity reading), and thus assign the null complement the indeterminate, non-referen-
tial value (see examples (5), (18) and (20)). Given contexts may well sanction occur-
rences of such predicates where their unexpressed complement has a referential value,
in situations where they have two event-structure arguments (see the occurrence of hit
in (1c′′) and of break in (19)). This is a clear violation of constraints of the type in (15a)
and (17a) — but the works in which these constraints were formulated were based ex-
clusively on invented, context-free examples, and did not take account of actual, attest-
ed data.
	 In the case of incremental-object and activity verbs, there is a preference in terms
of aspectual predicate type for either of the two non-referential (generic or indetermi-
nate) values of the null complement; and in that of state, accomplishment and achieve-
ment verbs, there is a preference in terms of one of the two referential values for these
complements — though in English, there must be a selectionally- or contextually-in-
duced denotation type made available for this to be possible (cf. hit as used in (1c′′) in
contrast to buy in (10)). But the opposite values may be induced via contextual trig-
gers — features of the co-text or the context (or both), as well as the accessibility of giv-
en cultural stereotypes.
5.2 
Referential pragmatics: cognitive status, the Givenness Hierarchy,
and one neo-Gricean account of anaphoric complement zeros vs.
overt object pronouns
As far as the pragmatics of zero forms is concerned, these are said by linguists such as
Givón and Ariel to be extremely high accessibility markers. Indeed, they figure at the
extreme “High Accessibility” pole of Ariel’s (2001: 31, item (2)) Accessibility Marking
Scale, where each referential expression-type is assigned a degree of accessibility rel-
ative to the status of its intended referent in the addressee’s memory, as assumed by
the speaker at any given point in a discourse. Zero forms do not figure at all in Gun-
del, Hedberg & Zacharski’s (1993; 2000) “Givenness Hierarchy”, though as Nancy Hed-
210	 Francis Cornish
berg (p.c.) points out, in their (1993) article, these authors did include zero NPs on the
­
Givenness Hierarchies which they postulated for Spanish, Chinese, Japanese and Rus-
sian, claiming that their referents are of necessity in focus.
	 This is no doubt the case with the null complements in English and French which
have the third of the three values isolated in this chapter (i.e. the context-bound, ana-
phoric function), and this was no doubt also what Ariel had in mind in placing zero
forms on her Accessibility Marking Scale (however, Ariel predominantly illustrates and
discusses subject zero forms, to the exclusion of complement ones). The first type iso-
lated above (the non-referential “inherent argument” type, in Van Valin & LaPolla’s
1997 terms — see sub-section 3.1 above) would of course not be relevant here, since it
is bound up with the predicating ability of the verb in question, and has no referential
force. However, the second type, depending on whether it is construed as hearer-new
or hearer-old (a frame-based value), would not necessarily encode high accessibility:
for the “hearer-new” variant, the intended referent is relatively inaccessible, since it is
being introduced brand-new into the discourse; and for the “hearer-old” variant, the
referent is midway accessible, being ‘expected” in terms of the knowledge frame cur-
rently being evoked, but nevertheless new in terms of the current discourse (i.e. its dis-
course-pragmatic value would be “hearer-old” (in terms of “inferrable”) but “discourse-
new”): see Prince (1992) for an analysis of what she calls “inferrables” in these terms.
As Lambrecht & Lemoine (2005) note, null complements bearing this value cannot be
replaced by unaccented pronouns, showing their status as somewhat less than “high”
accessibility markers.
	 If we consider the Givenness Hierarchy solely in terms of the scale of cognitive sta-
tuses it recognizes, it would seem that the three interpretation types we have isolated
for null complements in English range over the following positions: the polar ones for
the anaphoric subtype (“in-focus”) and the non-referential one (“type identifiable”),
with the ‘discourse-new’ subtype ranging over the three intermediate statuses “familiar”
or “uniquely identifiable” (for the ‘hearer-old’ variant) and “referential” (for the ‘brand-
new’ one):
	 (21)	 in focus > activated > familiar > uniquely identifiable > referential > type iden‑
tifiable (Gundel, Hedberg & Zacharski 1993: 275)
	 In the case of the anaphoric subtype, the implicit argument’s “in-focus” status would
seem unproblematic; in that of the non-referential one, given that the argument con-
cerned is only an “inherent” one, and as such part of the characterisation of the essential
meaning of the host predicate, it is analogous to the lexical component of an indefinite
NP introduced by the indefinite article, as specified by the least restrictive cognitive sta-
tus on the GH, namely “type-identifiable”: the addressee is assumed by the speaker only
to have access to the conventional sense of the head noun of an indefinite article + N se-
quence, just as in the case of the non-referential null complement subtype, whose very
raison d’être is to highlight the essential semantic content of the predicate whose second
argument it represents, qua lexical item. There is a precedent within the GH itself for a
	 Implicit internal arguments, event structure, predication and anaphoric reference 211
given form type to occur at more than one position on the Hierarchy with different se-
mantic-pragmatic values: namely, the proximal demonstrative determiner this, which
occurs both under the status “activated” and under that of “referential” (in its referent-
introducing use), statuses which are also not adjacent in the Givenness Hierarchy. Thus
the cognitive statuses which may be signalled by null complements in English include
all but one of the six positions recognized by the GH.
	 Let us look now at Levinson’s (2000) version of a neo-Gricean account in terms of
referential “minimization” (zero forms could not be more “minimal” in this respect!).
I will mainly be considering the context-bound, anaphoric value of the A2
or A2
and
A3
arguments here (i.e. the referential value corresponding to the highest degree of ac-
cessibility of the three subtypes). Let us consider a range of examples — some of which
have already been presented.
	 (22)	 a.	 “… and the Archers’ one-year-old grandson had been
	 playing in the room moments before it hit ø.” (ex. (1c′′))
b.	
“… always lock your car and never leave anything valuable inside ø.” (The
Radio Times, section on “Crime”, p. 114)
c.	 Come on now, break ø! They’ve all got to go, you know! (ex. (19))
d.	
[At the theatre: A is seated next to B, who is placed right behind a tall
spectator in the seat in front]
	 A to B: Can you see ø?
e.	 “Care and Cleaning
	
(…) Refer to instructions below ø for cleaning the ‘Cookclean’ removable
side panels (if fitted)… ” (Belling cooker installation and user instruc-
tions leaflet)
f.	 “Glass Lid (Glass)
	
(…) Stubborn stains can be removed with a cream, paste or liquid cleaner,
or by gently rubbing ø with liberally soaped, very fine steel wool pads….”
(Continuation of (22e))
g.	 “… Polish ø with a clean dry or kitchen roll …” (Continuation of (22f))
The zero complement in (22a) refers to ‘the Archers’ house’, the one in (22b) to ‘the
reader’s car’, in (22c) it refers to ‘the bowl with an attractive design which the hearer is
examining’, in (22d), to ‘the stage in the theatre in which A and B are seated’ (this is an
instance of the discourse-new referential subtype), in (22e) to ‘the occurrence of the
null form in question’, in (22f) to ‘those stubborn stains which may still be on the glass
lid of the cooker’, and in (22g) to ‘the glass lid of the cooker’. In (22a), as we have seen,
the unaccented pronoun it would have been possible, but with a potential shift in refer-
ence; in (22b), it would have been possible in place of the zero, with the same referential
value; in (22c), it or that would clearly have been possible substitutes for the null com-
plement; in (22d), it would have been odd as a replacement for the zero form; in (22e),
it could not have occurred instead of the zero, since this is a textual-deictic use: only the
proximal demonstrative pronoun this would have been an appropriate substitute here;
212	 Francis Cornish
in (22f), the plural pronoun them could have replaced the zero, with the same referent;
but in (22g) them could not have occurred instead of the zero, since the predicative part
of the anaphoric clause would have predicated an incoherent state of affairs of its refer-
ent ‘the stubborn stains which may get stuck to the cooker’s glass lid’: for the entity re-
trieved by the pronoun would be something which would hardly be likely to be “pol-
ished”! Only the pronoun it would target the intended referent of the zero, namely ‘the
cooker’s glass lid’, the topic of this discourse segment. The host predicators in (22) have
the following aspectual properties: hit is an achievement predicate, inside is a state one,
break a transition predicate (in its transitive occurrence in (22c), it is a causative-ac-
complishment predicate), see is a state predicate,16
below is also a state predicate, rub is
an activity predicate, and polish is likewise an activity predicate (more specifically, an
“incremental-object” predicate).
	 Now, Levinson (2000: 285) proposes what he calls “The general anaphora pattern”
whereby zero forms (“NP-gaps”) used in positions where overt pronouns could also
have been used, are more likely to implicate local coreference in conformity with the
“I(nformativity)-principle”, while pronouns occurring in place of a possible zero will
“M(anner)-implicate” non-coreference. In turn, a pronoun used in place of an other-
wise possible lexical NP (e.g. a definite NP) will I-implicate coreference, while the re-
verse pattern will M-implicate non-coreference. The “general anaphora pattern” is giv-
en as (26) in chapter 4:
	 (23)	 The general anaphora pattern (Levinson 2000: (26), p. 285)
Lexical NP > pronoun > NP-gap
M-implicates noncoreference
I-implicates coreference
	 According to the I-principle (Levinson 2000: (39), pp. 114–15), speakers tend to pro-
vide the minimum amount of information needed, consistent with the general direc-
tion of the exchange, while their addressees are supposed to infer from each utterance a
more specific, more fully informative interpretation. As for the M-principle (Levinson
2000: (69), pp. 136–7), this basically says that the use of a marked expression in place of
an otherwise possible unmarked one which would have I-implicated the correspond-
ing normal, stereotypical situation, tends to signal the speaker’s intention to convey a
marked interpretation.
	 However, in the seven examples of zero complement anaphora or deixis in (22), only
(22a) would seem to conform to Levinson’s “general anaphora pattern”, as far as the
second and third positions on the scale are concerned:17
for the overt pronoun it, a
16.  Note here that A’s question does not bear on the visual capacity of the addressee as such (see
is not a pure intransitive predicate here), but pertains to whether or not B has a view of the stage
which both interlocutors are facing.
17.  There are various independent cotextual and contextual factors listed by Huang (2000) and
Blackwell (1998: 613–14, item (30)); (2001: 939, item (10d)) which are claimed to neutralise the
	 Implicit internal arguments, event structure, predication and anaphoric reference 213
“marked” form in relation to the possible unmarked zero, would not have had the same
referent. However, the way the scale is said to operate in relation to this example is not
fully clear here, since it would have had a locally coreferent interpretation (with ‘the
room in which the Archers’ one-year old grandson had been playing minutes earlier’),
the zero complement of hit referring more globally to ‘the Archers’ house’. In (22b),
(22c), (22f) and (22g), the interpretation of tokens of the pronoun it (or them in the
case of (22f)) in place of the zero would be the opposite of the prediction from (23):
namely, it and the zero would have the same strict anaphoric or “exophoric” interpret-
ation (in (22c)), respectively, maintaining the reference to the reader’s car in (22b), to
the problematic entity being held up for examination by the addressee (i.e. ‘the bowl’)
in (22c), to the stubborn stains which may remain on the cooker’s glass lid in (22f), and
to the cooker’s glass lid in (22g). And in (22d), it would have been odd in place of the
zero, so no clear implicature could be drawn.
	 What seems clear in relation to the possible alternation between zero and it in this
respect is this: the zero complements tend to refer more diffusely, more globally than
the overt inanimate pronoun, which in several cases would have a more specific inter-
pretation: in (22a) ‘the room’ would be a more specific referent than ‘the house’ (of
which the room in question is a part). In (22d), while the zero complement refers in a
general manner to the ambient scene as a whole (including the décor, the actors, etc.),
the overt pronoun would refer more specifically to the stage qua stage. In (22g), the
zero form would naturally target the current discourse segment’s topical referent ‘the
cooker’s glass lid’, while the overt plural pronoun them would more naturally pick up
a more local topical referent, the one introduced in subject position of the preceding
sentence. The singular pronoun it, on the other hand, would refer back to the same
discourse-segment topic (‘the cooker’s lid’) as the zero. Notice how the zero in the im-
mediately preceding clause in the continuous text (represented by (22f)) refers to a
more local topic (‘stubborn stains which may be stuck to the cooker’s glass lid’), where-
as the zero complement of polish in (22g) (a continuation of the segment reproduced
in (22f)) targets, as we have seen, the current local discourse topic (‘the cooker’s glass
operation of the M-principle in particular. For example, in (22b), the conjoined parallel im-
perative construction makes a coreferential interpretation of the zero complement in the sec-
ond conjunct highly preferred. A similar explanation for the locally coreferent interpretation
assigned to the zero in the second disjunct of (22f) would stem from the parallel coordination
effected via the connective or: here, the antecedent NP and zero arguments bear the same se-
mantic role (Patient), and the predication in the first disjunct is ellipsed in the second, with
the manner by-phrase paralleling the means PP in the antecedent predication. In Blackwell
(2001: 939, item (10d)), the author hierarchises the factors favouring a coreferential interpret-
ation for the variety of types of Spanish indexical expressions she studies, placing Levinson’s al-
ternations of given expression types in terms of the operation of the I- and M-principles (as re-
flected in (23) for example) at the very end of her scale. This means that in many instances, the
resolution of given expression types (in our case, complement zeros and overt inanimate object
pronouns) may be determined without recourse to the I- and M-principles at all.
214	 Francis Cornish
lid’). In this case too, the overt pronoun would have a more local referent than the
zero. Zero complements appear to be much more flexible than overt pronouns, and
are more sensitive to context. It is not evident that Levinson’s principles would actually
predict these differences.
6.  Conclusion
The fact that one or more non-first arguments of a transitive predicate are unrealised
in the syntax does not mean that it is intransitive (i.e. monovalent) semantically. The
constraints on the occurrence of null complements for such verbs in English would ap-
pear to be determined by the need to recover (i.e. to “license”) that or those non-first
argument(s).
	 In two of the three subtypes (the non-referential one and the anaphoric one), the
zero complement of otherwise transitive (or ditransitive) verbs, adjectives or prepos-
itions is licensed by the highly presupposed nature of its content: in the first case, an ‘in-
herent’ argument, part of the host predicate’s meaning, potentially narrowed to a more
specific denotation type by features of the co(n)text; and in the second, a topical (and
hence also highly presupposed) discourse referent licensed via the cotext and/or con-
text of utterance of the host predicate, which is retrieved by the null complement. The
former subtype is lexically presupposed, while the latter is discourse-pragmatically
presupposed. As for the third of the three subtypes of null complement, the referential
‘discourse-new’ one, its existence is licensed via a combination of the lexical-semantic
and Aktionsart structure of the host predicate (making available an appropriate inher-
ent argument, e.g. ‘letter’ in the case of write in its “correspond” sense) and certain ref-
erentially-relevant features of the host predication as a whole (tense, aspect, temporal
or locative ‘framing’ adverbial modifiers etc.). Only the inherent-argument component
of the discourse-new referent evoked is (lexically) presupposed in such a case. Hence,
this subtype may be viewed as the marked member of the set of null complement inter-
pretation types.
	 In both the non-referential and the referential subtypes, the host predicator’s selec-
tion restrictions play a role: in the first case, in transferring to the null complement,
where they are then narrowed to a denotation type via the contextual domain of refer-
ence of the containing utterance; and in the second, in inhibiting the zero element’s
ability to denote a referent (whether contextually salient or not). However, as we have
seen, the telicity of the whole predication and the possible existence of a culturally-rec-
ognized stereotype may nevertheless license the intended referent and so permit the
null form. The discussion in §5.2 showed that, in general, “referential” zero comple-
ments refer more diffusely, more globally, than their overt object pronoun counter-
parts.
	 Implicit internal arguments, event structure, predication and anaphoric reference 215
References
Ariel, M. 2001. “Accessibility theory: an overview”. In Text Representation: Cognitive and linguis‑
tic aspects, T. Sanders, J. Schilperoord and W. Spooren (eds.), 29–87. Amsterdam/Philadel-
phia: John Benjamins.
Blackwell, S. E. 1998. “Constraints on Spanish NP anaphora: the syntactic versus the pragmatic
domain”. Hispania 81(3): 606–18.
Blackwell, S. E. 2001. “Testing the neo-Gricean pragmatic theory of anaphora: the influence of
consistency constraints on interpretations of coreference in Spanish”. Journal of Pragmat‑
ics 33: 901–41.
Brisson, C. 1994. “The licensing of unexpressed objects in English verbs”. In Papers from the
30th Regional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society Vol. 1: The Main Session, K. Beals,
J. Denton, R. Knippen, L. Melnar, H. Suzuki & E. Zeinfeld (eds.), 90–102. Chicago: CLS.
Butt, M. & Geuder, W. (eds.). 1998. The Projection of Arguments. Lexical and compositional fac‑
tors. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Cornish, F. 1999. Anaphora, Discourse, and Understanding. Evidence from English and French.
Oxford: Clarendon Press (Oxford University Press).
Cornish, F. 2002. “‘Downstream’ effects on the predicate in Functional Grammar clause deriv-
ations”. Journal of Linguistics 38(2): 247–78.
Cornish, F. 2005. “Null complements, event structure, predication and anaphora: a Functional
Discourse Grammar account”. In Studies in Functional Discourse Grammar, J. L. Mackenzie
& M. A. Gómez-González (eds.), 21–47. Bern: Peter Lang.
Dik, S. C. 1997. The Theory of Functional Grammar, Part 1: The structure of the clause. Berlin/
New York: Mouton-de Gruyter.
Fillmore, C. J. 1986. “Pragmatically-controlled zero anaphora”. In Proceedings of the 12th Annual
Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, K. Nikiforidou et al. (eds.), 95–107.
García Velasco, D. & Portero Muñoz, C. 2002. “Understood objects in Functional Grammar”.
Working Papers in Functional Grammar n° 76: 1–22.
Goldberg, A. 2001. “Patient arguments of causative verbs can be omitted: the role of information
structure in argument distribution”. Language Sciences 23: 503–24.
Groefsema, M. 1995. “Understood arguments: a semantic/pragmatic approach”. Lingua 96: 139–
61.
Gundel, J. K., Hedberg, N. & Zacharski, R. 1993. “Cognitive status and the form of referring ex-
pressions in discourse”. Language 69(2): 274–307.
Gundel, J. K., Hedberg, N. & Zacharski, R. 2000. “Statut cognitif et forme des anaphoriques in-
directs”. Verbum XXII, 1: 79–102.
Jackendoff, R. S. 1990. Semantic Structures. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Jackendoff, R. S. 2002. Foundations of Language. Brain, meaning, grammar, evolution. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Huang, Y. 2000. Anaphora. A cross-linguistic study. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Kleiber, G. 1994. Anaphores et pronoms. Brussels: Duculot.
Koenig, J-P. & Mauner, G. 2000. “A-definites and the discourse status of implicit arguments”.
Journal of Semantics 16: 207–36.
Lambrecht, K. & Lemoine, K. 2005. “Definite null objects in (spoken) French. A Construction-
Grammar account”. In Grammatical Constructions: Back to the Roots, M. Fried & H. Boas
(eds.), 13–55. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
216	 Francis Cornish
Larjavaara, M. 2000. Présence ou absence de l’objet. Limites du possible en français contemporain.
Helsinki: Academia Scientiarum Fennica.
Lehrer, A. 1970. “Verbs and deletable objects”. Lingua 25: 227–53.
Levin, B. & Rappaport Hovav, M. 2005. Argument Realization. Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
Levinson, S. C. 2000. Presumptive Meanings. The theory of Generalized Conversational Implica‑
ture. Cambridge, MA/London, England: MIT Press.
Mairal Usón, R. & Faber, P. 2002. “Functional Grammar and lexical templates”. In New Perspec‑
tives on Argument Structure in Functional Grammar, Mairal Usón & Pérez Quintero (eds.),
39–94. Berlin/New York: Mouton-de Gruyter.
Mauner, G., Melinger, A., Koenig, J-P. & Bienvenue, B. 2002. “When is participant information
encoded? Evidence from eye-monitoring”. Journal of Memory and Language 47: 386–406.
Mejri, S. & François, J. 2006. “Restrictions sémantiques sur l’objet sous-entendu de verbes tran-
sitifs (le cas de boire)”. In Composition syntaxique et figement lexical, J. François & S. Mejri
(eds.), 39–54. Caen: Presses Universitaires de Caen (Bibliothèque de Syntaxe & Sémantique,
volume 3).
Mittwoch, A. 1982. “On the difference between eating and eating something: activities versus
accomplishments”. Linguistic Inquiry 13(1): 113–22.
Noailly, M. 1998.a “Transitivité absolue et type de prédication”. In Prédication, assertion, infor‑
mation. Actes du Colloque d’Uppsala en linguistique française, M. Forsgren, K. Jonasson &
H. Kronning (eds.), 377–84. 6–9 June 1996.Stockholm: Gotab.
Noailly, M. 1998.b “Emploi absolu, anaphore zéro et transitivité”. In La Transitivité, A. Rousseau
(ed.), 131–44. Lille: Éditions du Septentrion.
Prince, E. F. 1992. “The ZPG letter: Subjects, definiteness and information status”. In Discourse
descriptions: Diverse analyses of a fund-raising text. S. Thompson & W. Mann (eds.), 295–
325. Philadelphia/Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Pustejovsky, J. 1995. The Generative Lexicon. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Rappaport Hovav, M. & Levin, B. 1998. “Building verb meanings”. In The Projection of Argu‑
ments. Lexical and compositional factors, Butt & Geuder (eds.), 97–134. Stanford: CSLI
Publications.
Ritter, E. & Thomas Rosen, S. 1998. “Delimiting events in syntax”. In The Projection of Argu‑
ments. Lexical and compositional factors, Butt & Geuder (eds.), 135–64. Stanford: CSLI
Publications.
Rothstein, S. 2004. Structuring Events. A study in the semantics of lexical aspect. Malden, MA,
USA/Oxford, UK/Victoria, Australia: Blackwell Publishing.
Van Hout, A. 1999. “Event semantics in the lexicon–syntax interface: verb frame alternations in
Dutch and their acquisition”. In Events as Grammatical Objects. The Converging Perspectives
of Lexical Semantics and Syntax, C. Tenny & J. Pustejovsky (eds.), 230–82. Leland Stanford
Junior University: CSLI Publications.
Van Valin, R. D.  & LaPolla, R. J. 1997. Syntax: Structure, meaning and function. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Vendler, Z. 1967. Linguistics in Philosophy. Ithaca, New York: Cornell University Press.
chapter 10
‘Switch-polarity’ anaphora
in English and Norwegian
Thorstein Fretheim
Norwegian University of Science and Technology
Otherwise is a discourse connective with an anaphoric function. Its propositional ref-
erent is the negative counterpart of a proposition pragmatically recovered by means of
a search in the most recently produced portion of the discourse, thus the word quali-
fies for the proposed label ‘switch-polarity anaphor’. The use ranges of otherwise and its
Norwegian correspondent ellers are compared, and a lexical meaning defined in terms
of relevance-theoretic procedural semantics is proposed, a meaning that is claimed to
work for otherwise and ellers alike. The semantic and pragmatic relationship between
otherwise and the switch-polarity anaphor else is discussed, as well as the relationship
between otherwise and the disjunctive connective or (and or else). While most tokens
of switch-polarity anaphora constrain the truth-conditional content of the sentence
that they occur in, certain interesting exceptions will be highlighted. Most of the data
examined is from a bi-directional translation corpus, the English Norwegian Parallel
Corpus.
1.  Introduction
Basing my investigation mainly on a study of the bi-directional translation corpus
ENPC (http://www.hf.uio.no/iba/prosjekt/), which stands for the English Norwegian
Parallel Corpus, I have been exploring the semantics and pragmatics of the English
adverb otherwise and its Norwegian counterpart ellers, as well as English else which is
a frequent translation correspondent of ellers. These words are analysed as discourse
variables whose reference the addressee has to establish through a search in the im-
mediately preceding discourse. Thus, they perform a role similar to that of linguistic
anaphora, and I do not hesitate to refer to them as anaphoric sentence elements. But al-
though they do behave like ‘normal’ anaphora affecting truth-conditional content in a
vast number of contexts, their truth-conditional import is occasionally rather attenuat-
ed, maybe even non-existent. I shall present a pragmatic analysis of the way that other‑
wise, else and ellers are used in English and Norwegian communication, and I am going
to offer a definition of the lexical meaning of these words which places them in the cat-
egory of procedural markers.
218	 Thorstein Fretheim
	 According to relevance theory (Sperber and Wilson 1986a, 1995) there are two ways
in which linguistic meaning can act as input to the inferential processes involved in
utterance comprehension. Linguistic expressions can encode concepts, the constitu-
ents of the conceptual representations that hearers have to manipulate in the inferen-
tial phase of the comprehension process in order to make sense of what is said. Some ex-
pressions, however, do not encode concepts but rather constraints on the way that the
hearer’s inferential computations should proceed, in other words, constraints on how
to manipulate the concepts encoded by linguistic means, so that the stimulus yields as
many contextual effects as possible for as little processing effort as possible. The inves-
tigation of linguistic expressions which encode a procedure for the addressee to follow,
as opposed to a concept that enters into semantic representation, all started with Blake-
more’s analyses of markers like after all, moreover, therefore, and so in English (Blake-
more 1987). As Carston points out, the existence of words that encode a constraint on
the inferential phase of utterance comprehension means that we have to “doubly dis-
sociate the semantics–pragmatics distinction from the explicit/implicit” (Carston
2002: 160). Not only do pragmatic inferences make a considerable and quite necessary
contribution to explicit truth-conditional content but semantics also includes the study
of linguistic expressions which do not contribute to the encoded logical form of the sen-
tences in which they appear.
	 In Blakemore’s (op.cit.) seminal work on procedural semantics, linguistic expres-
sions that encode procedural information were meant to reduce the search space for
pragmatic processes leading to the derivation of implicatures, and a few years laterWil-
son and Sperber (1993) proposed that anaphoric items like pronouns and demonstra-
tives encode a procedure that is meant to narrow down the addressee’s search space in
the pragmatic processes of determining their reference. Pronouns and other anaphora
are therefore regarded as procedural indicators whose impact is noticed at the explicit
level of content.
	 As I find it meaningful to call otherwise, else and Norwegian ellers discourse markers
of the anaphoric sort, it would seem to follow that on my analysis these words have an ef-
fect on explicitly communicated assumptions. Most of the time they do, but this chapter
will also try to do justice to my claim that they do not always constrain the proposition
expressed,oriftheydo,theysometimesdosoinarathersubtlemanner.Thequestionof
whether a given token of one of these words enters into the explicit level of pragmatical-
ly derived meaning or is confined to the pragmatic derivation of conversational implica-
tures can only be answered with reference to a set of contextual assumptions constrain-
ingthecognitiveprocessofdeterminingthecommunicator’sinformativeintention.
2.  The use range of otherwise
Some uses of English otherwise are not matched by analogous uses of Norwegian ellers.
Although my concern in this chapter is primarily with the adverbial adjunct introduced
	 ‘Switch-polarity’ anaphora in English and Norwegian 219
in §2.2 whose communicative role is often similar to the premise-giving role of a condi-
tional clause, I recognize certain functional similarities between all uses of otherwise.
2.1  Otherwise as direct object argument
The ENPC correspondences offered in (1) and (2), where English is the source language
and Norwegian the target language, illustrate one conspicuous use of otherwise which I
have decided to say a few words about in this paragraph, and then leave it aside. Other‑
wise typically affects the truth-conditional interpretation of a linguistic form that is ca-
pable of being pragmatically developed into a proposition even if the word otherwise
is removed from the sentence, but the occurrences of otherwise in (1) and (2) are vari-
ables which have to be ‘saturated’ through inference (Recanati 1993) in order for there
to be an explicated proposition (Sperber and Wilson 1986a) at all.
	 (1)	 Nature and nurture are inextricable; only scientists and psychologists could
think otherwise. →
Arv og miljø er uløselig sammenfiltret.
inheritance and environment are inextricably intertwined
Bare vitenskapsmenn og psykologer kan tro noe annet. (RDA1)
only scientists and psychologists can think something other.neut
	 (2)	 Cats should be kept in at night: it is brutal to do otherwise, … → 
Katter burde holdes inne om natten, det er brutalt å gjøre
cats ought.to be.kept in during the.night, it is brutal to do
noe annet, …  (FW1)
something other.neut …
The English texts in (1) and (2) contain a syntactic construction where otherwise is the
complement of the transitive verbs think and do, respectively.What is generally consid-
ered an adverbial element appears to occupy the position of a direct object argument
functioning like a complement clause. Its Norwegian translation, the quantified nom-
inal phrase noe annet (literally: something other; i.e. “some/anything else”), is generally
enriched when it is the direct object of a verb of propositional attitude or the verb gjøre
(“do”), so that its conveyed meaning is felt to be “the opposite thing”, i.e. the belief that
nature and nurture are not inextricable in (1), and the custom of not keeping domestic
cats in at night in (2).
.  The letter code appearing after all ENPC correspondences in this chapter refers to the code
it was given in the ENPC. Both otherwise and its Norwegian correspondent in the translation
are underlined.
.  The rightward pointing arrow indicates that the original text is to the left of the arrow and
the translation to the right.
220	 Thorstein Fretheim
	 The Norwegian anaphoric adverbial ellers (“otherwise”) would not have been pos-
sible as a substitution for noe annet in those sentence structures. That, in my opinion,
suggests that otherwise is really a syntactic constituent of the nominal sort in (1)–(2),
while ellers is an adverbial constituent which cannot ever be the direct object of a transi-
tive verb.
2.2  Otherwise as adverbial anaphor
Otherwise represents a proposition, not only when it is the complement of general ac-
tivity verbs like do or act or of basic propositional attitude verbs like think or believe
but also when its function is that of an adverbial adjunct, as in the conditional of (3),
from the ENPC, where the anaphor otherwise is the linguistic representative of what
the addressee will develop pragmatically as the protasis
of a conditional, and where
the Norwegian correspondent ellers serves an anaphoric function similar to that of
otherwise.
	 (3)	 “I think you’ll have to take off the southwester, Herman.
Otherwise there’ll be trouble.” ←
“Tror nesten du må ta av deg sydvesten, Hermann.
Think almost you must take off you the.southwester, H.
Ellers blir det bråk.”  (LSC1)
Otherwise becomes it trouble
In order to enrich the encoded logical form of a sentence with otherwise sufficiently
to recover the proposition expressed, the hearer or reader has to locate a linguistic an-
tecedent and its proposition P through a search in the preceding discourse. The ante-
cedent proposition P is very often, but not always as we will witness later, contained in
the immediately preceding sentence. In (3) the antecedent is evidently meant to be the
contradictory counterpart of the proposition expressed in the clausal complement of
English think and Norwegian tror.
We know that the claim of the speaker of (3) is that
there will be trouble if Herman does not take off his southwester.
	 Unlike other higher-order entity anaphora that refer to factual or potential situations,
the adverbs otherwise and ellers instruct the addressee to derive the intended referents
of these words by negating the antecedent proposition P and letting the resulting ¬P
.  I have decided to refer to the antecedent proposition of a conditional as ‘protasis’, mainly to
avoid confusion with what I call the discourse ‘antecedent’ of otherwise and ellers.
.  The leftward pointing arrow ← in (3) indicates that the text before the arrow is the transla-
tion and the text after the arrow the source text.
.  The Norwegian sentence starting with the finite verb tror in (3) has no overt subject phrase.
This does not mean that Norwegian is a pro-drop language. In colloquial speech the first-person
singular pronoun is sometimes omitted.
	 ‘Switch-polarity’ anaphora in English and Norwegian 221
serve as a constraint on the explicature of the utterance containing the anaphor.
This
unique property of the anaphors otherwise and ellers has caused me to coin the term
‘switch-polarity anaphor’ as a descriptive label applicable to these adverbs.
2.3  Otherwise as the second disjunct in a disjunction
A more distantly related use of otherwise is seen in (4), where the Norwegian transla-
tion det motsatte in the ENPC translation literally means “the opposite”. This idiomatic
use of otherwise is found mainly in the phrase or otherwise, as the second member in a
disjunctive co-ordination of nominals.
	 (4)	 There followed a discussion on the merits (or otherwise) of Kafka. →
Så fulgte en diskusjon om fortreffeligheten (eller det motsatte) til Kafka.  (BC1)
According to the most straightforward analysis of the phrase the merits (or otherwise)
in (4), otherwise would be classified as a nominal expression just like the preceding dis-
junct the merits. Here otherwise does not seem to represent a proposition; it instructs
the addressee/reader to find a concept that is the opposite of the concept encoded by
the noun merit.
2.4  Otherwise as manner adverb
Otherwise can also have the function of a manner adverb, as illustrated by the following
ENPC correspondence.
	 (5)	 … for it could not be otherwise described. →
 … for annerledes kunne det ikke beskrives.  (RDA1)
  for differently could it not be.described
The word means much the same as “differently” in (5), which is also the meaning of
the translation counterpart annerledes (literally: otherways) in the Norwegian text (for
.  Cornish (1999) draws a distinction between ‘antecedent’ and ‘antecedent-trigger’. He says
about the traditional notion of ‘antecedent’ that “it is a formal element, a co-occurring lexically
specific expression bearing certain formal features that will serve to determine the shape of the
anaphor — for instance, where that anaphor is pronominal in nature; but it is also an inherently
meaningful, potentially referential expression. And it is this aspect of the ‘antecedent’, which,
under the standard conception, will determine the anaphor’s full sense and reference once the
two are successfully brought into relation with one another.” (Cornish 1999: 41–2). Cornish pro-
poses the name ‘antecedent-trigger’ for the former and ‘antecedent’ for the latter aspect of the
traditional notion. With reference to otherwise one could say that the antecedent will have the
opposite polarity of what the antecedent-trigger suggests.
.  A single occurrence of a conjunction with and otherwise appears in the ENPC, namely the
phrase human and otherwise, where the context shows that human is used as an adjective, not
as a noun.
222	 Thorstein Fretheim
a pragmatic analysis of annerledes, see Fretheim 2004a). The implication is that a de-
scription deviating from the description already given would be less adequate. There
is a kind of vagueness about otherwise as manner adverb, though. The word does not
really mean “differently” in the phrase otherwise engaged, for example, so it is even de-
batable that ‘manner adverb’ is the most suitable label for otherwise co-occurring with
a past participle.
3.  The otherwise–ellers correspondence
3.1  Otherwise/ellers as a lexical constraint on inferential processing
The focus of this central section will be otherwise as adverbial anaphor and lexical cor-
respondent of Norwegian ellers, as illustrated in (3) above. I am not going to try to an-
swer the question how many lexical items otherwise there might be, though I suspect
that the function of otherwise described in §2.1 could be subsumed under the same lex-
ical item as the adverbial adjunct in §2.2, despite its special syntactic privileges as a dir-
ect object argument. The uses of otherwise illustrated in §2.3 and §2.4 are more likely to
represent separate lexical items.
	 The Norwegian word ellers is composed of the disjunctive co-ordinating connective
eller (“or”) plus a derivational suffix ‑s which turns the disjunctive connective into an
adverb. Otherwise and ellers signal a disjunctive relation between two propositions P
and Q, where Q is the proposition expressed in the sentence modified by otherwise/el‑
lers and where P is a proposition whose negated counterpart is anaphorically represent-
ed by these adverbials.
	 ThelexicalmeaningthatIamgoingtoproposefortheEnglishandNorwegianswitch-
polarity anaphora is one that I consider to work equally well for English otherwise and
Norwegian ellers. Like anaphora in general, these are words with a predominantly pro-
cedural, as opposed to conceptual, lexical meaning (Blakemore 1987, 2002; Wilson and
Sperber 1993), and the lexical definition in (6) is formulated in procedural terms.
	 (6)	 The meaning of ellers and otherwise:
i.	 Identify the antecedent proposition P of ellers/otherwise.
ii.	
Derive the proposition Q of the utterance U containing ellers/otherwise in
a context in which the negative counterpart of P is true.
iii.	
Adjust the content of Q as appropriate, in case the communicator
presents P as an explicature
rather than just a potentially true propos-
ition.
.  An explicature, or explicated proposition, is ”an ostensively communicated assumption
which is inferentially developed from one of the incomplete conceptual representations (logical
forms) encoded by the utterance” (Sperber and Wilson 1986a).
	 ‘Switch-polarity’ anaphora in English and Norwegian 223
Part i of this instruction to the addressee says nothing more than that these words are
higher-order entity anaphora, propositional variables whose pragmatic processing de-
pends upon the addressee’s identification of a linguistic anchor (Cornish’s ‘antecedent-
trigger’; see footnote 6) in the preceding discourse. Supported by the Communicative
Principle of Relevance (Sperber and Wilson 1995)
the addressee will select the most
accessible discourse-activated candidate antecedent that satisfies the hearer’s expect-
ations of stimulus relevance. Part ii of (6) informs us that the negation of the antecedent
proposition is to be established as a contextual premise in the inference-driven identi-
fication of the proposition of any utterance containing ellers or otherwise. Q is true just
in case ¬P is true, so there is a disjunctive relation between P and Q, as expressed by
the logical equivalence of ‘¬P → Q ≡ P V Q’. The need for something like part iii will be
clarified in §4.2, where data will be presented, which shows that Q is not always truth-
functionally constrained by otherwise, at least not in the way that the protasis of a con-
ditional constrains the main clause apodosis. The lexical meaning proposed in (6) is
meant to capture the assumption that an addressee encountering one of the adverbs el‑
lers or otherwise in a written text or in conversation will direct his attention to the prop-
osition of the linguistic antecedent of these anaphora but will simultaneously focus on
what would be true if the antecedent proposition were false.
	 As there is an ostensively communicated disjunctive relation between the propos-
ition Q modified by the switch-polarity anaphor and the proposition P which is the an-
tecedent of the anaphor, it is only natural that a good many occurrences of otherwise
and ellers in the ENPC are in sentences that express a counterfactual conditional. Mood
indicators in the sentence, like use of a verb in the past perfect, will then indicate that
Q is actually false, just as the propositional referent of otherwise/ellers is presented as
false. When no procedural clue directs the addressee to a counterfactual conditional
interpretation, the addressee may be led to the conclusion that the referent of other‑
wise/ellers, i.e. the negation of P, constrains the truth of Q and points to a non-trivial in-
compatibility between Q and P, but occasionally, depending on the communicator’s set
of mutually manifest contextual premises, the antecedent proposition P may be seen
as representing just an exception, maybe even one of little cognitive significance. Sec-
tion 4 addresses the latter situation.
3.2  Counterfactual conditionals
The complex verbal expression would have offered in (7) a, b and c gives the addressee
the procedural information that the proposition of the italicized utterance is false inas-
much as the preceding utterance expresses a true proposition.
.  The Second (Communicative) Principle of Relevance reads as follows, ”Every act of ostensive
communication (e.g. an utterance) communicates a presumption of its own optimal relevance”
(Sperber and Wilson 1995: 260).
224	 Thorstein Fretheim
	 (7)	 a.	 There’s unfortunately no coffee left.
	 Otherwise I would have offered you some.
b. 	 There’s unfortunately no coffee left.
	 I would have offered you some.
c. 	 I would have offered you some, but there’s unfortunately no coffee left.
The italicized part of (7) a and b expresses the same proposition in both versions. A
process of enrichment of the decoded logical form is necessary to determine the truth-
conditional content of the second utterance of (7a) and (7b) alike. The speaker would
be able to offer the hearer a cup of coffee just in case the proposition of the first utter-
ance were false, but since that is an ostensively communicated proposition (an expli-
cature), and since the subjunctive nature of the phrase would have offered shows that
the second utterance describes an unreal situation, the contradiction that would arise
from an act of offering a cup of coffee where no coffee exists is resolved through the ad-
dressee’s recognition of the italicized utterance as a counterfactual conditional. Due to
the procedural semantics of otherwise, the addressee of the utterances of (7a) is encour-
aged to process the explicit content of the second utterance in a context that contradicts
the assumption that there is no coffee left. But the same pragmatically induced truth-
conditional saturation seems to be an inevitable consequence of the version in (7b) as
well, which contains no switch-polarity anaphor. There is relatively more decoding to
be done in (7a), while relatively more inferential processing is necessary to obtain the
same cognitive effects from (7b) and (7c). Audiences confronted with the data in (7)
have judged (7b) to be a lot less natural than (7a). The reason is presumably that the al-
ternative with otherwise in (7a) instructs the addressee to develop a conditional. The
clause order in (7c) and the contrast encoded by but there also appears to make that ver-
sion more acceptable than (7b), or to make it more manifest that the clause I would have
offered you some is to be processed as the apodosis of a counterfactual conditional.
	 Examples (8)–(10) are three examples of otherwise — ellers correspondences in coun-
terfactual conditionals found in the ENPC.
	 (8)	 Most of his work was done at home; otherwise he might not have cared so
about the mechanics of the household. →
Han utførte mesteparten av sitt arbeide hjemme, ellers ville han
he carried.out the.most-part of his work at.home, otherwise would he
ikke brydd seg så mye om husholdningssakene  (AT1)
not cared refl so much about the.householdmatters
The only pragmatically accessible candidate antecedent of otherwise and ellers in (9)
below is the proposition of the opening conjunct, “Hunt was not a gangster”, so the
protasis of the counterfactual conditional in (9) is the pragmatically derived positive
counterpart “Hunt was a gangster”, i.e. “If Hunt had been a gangster, Danny could eas-
ily have entered the organized underworld” (see my remarks in §3.6 on the scarcity of
occurrences of otherwise as an anaphor that represents a positive proposition).
	 ‘Switch-polarity’ anaphora in English and Norwegian 225
	 (9)	 Hunt was not strictly a crook, and certainly did not belong to the organised
underworld which Danny might otherwise have entered; … →
Hunt var ikke akkurat en kjeltring, og han tilhørte på ingen måte den
H. was not really a gangster and he belonged in no way the
organiserte underverden som Danny kanskje kunne ha kommet inn i
organized underworld that D. maybe could have come into in
ellers.  (MD1)
otherwise
In (10) the complement of the sentence-initial anaphor is a ‘why’-interrogative, which
we readily interpret as a rhetorical question due to the presence of otherwise and
­
ellers.
	 (10)	 “I said she’s probably been crucified, otherwise why would Jenny have said
she looked like Jesus?” →
“Jeg sa at hun antagelig er blitt korsfestet, for hvorfor skulle Jenny
I said that she probably has been crucified for why should J.
ellers si at hun lignet Jesus?”  (MW1)
otherwise say that she resembled J.
Our next illustration, (11), is not taken from the ENPC but from a Norwegian mystery
novel parody published in 2002 (the English translation is mine). Ellers (and otherwise)
is here inside a restrictive relative clause, and the antecedent proposition, which contra-
dicts the inferred protasis of the counterfactual conditional, has to be construed on the
basis of information in the matrix clause.
	 (11)	 Penger har en merkelig evne til å få mennesker til å ta på seg oppgaver de ellers
ville ha holdt seg unna. →
Money has a peculiar ability to cause people to take on tasks they would
otherwise have stayed away from.  (Nærum, 2002)
Observe that there is no proper antecedent for the switch-polarity anaphora in (11).
They are what is standardly referred to as ‘indirect’ anaphora (Erkü and Gundel 1987).
The antecedent-anaphor relation in (11) must be established via a ‘bridging inference’
evoked due to the presence of the subject nominal penger/money and the infinitival
clause å ta på seg oppgaver/to take on tasks, a proposition recovered as illustrated by
the following suggested paraphrase in the form of a counterfactual conditional: “If the
tasks to be performed had not involved money, then people would have stayed away
from them”.
	 The ENPC correspondence presented in (12) is interesting, because what is just a
switch-polarity anaphor in the Norwegian version is fleshed out verbally in the English
translation as a counterfactual conditional clause shaped as an interrogative, though
this conditional clause is still conceptually impoverished, of course, due to the ana-
phoric phrase done so.
226	 Thorstein Fretheim
	 (12)	 MenWenche hadde studert de tre første årene de var gift. Hun var nødt til å
fullføre utdannelsen sin, hevdet hun,
  for ellers ville hun resten av sitt liv føle at hun hadde sviktet
 …, for otherwise would she the.rest of her life feel that she had betrayed
seg selv som menneske.  (EG2)
herself as human.being →
But Wendy [sic!] had insisted on completing her studies the first three years
of their marriage. Had she not done so, she’d maintained, she would spend
the rest of her life feeling that she’d failed to live up to her potentialities as a
human being.
The translator’s use of the full conditional clause Had she not done so reflects the result
of an enrichment process that meshes with the procedural meaning of ellers stated in
(6) and with the pragmatically inferred communicative import of that anaphor in the
original text. Ellers in (12) is not a linguistic element that could have been optionally
omitted, no more than the subjunctive conditional clause in the English translation. A
translator’s job is to make an interlingual metarepresentation of the original text’s rep-
resentation of the author’s intended message (Gutt, 2000). The English text in (12) is
an interpretation of the Norwegian text, which preserves the original’s communicated
logical relation between what precedes ellers and what follows that word. But where
the original contained a conceptually empty anaphor, the English translation metarep-
resents the context-dependent content of that anaphor by spelling it out as a negative
conditional clause proposition — a testimony to the conditional protasis character of
switch-polarity anaphora.
3.3  The relation between ‘or’ and otherwise
Quite a few tokens of Norwegian ellers in the ENPC are translated as a disjunctive co-
ordinating connective or that links two declaratives. Most of those correspondences are
of the counterfactual conditional type. As noted previously, ellers is morphologically
made up of a disjunctive connective plus an ‑s which makes an adverb out of the con-
nective, but the Norwegian disjunctive connective eller is not a legitimate translation of
or when or is used in this way. The adverb ellers may be said to capture the equivalence
of the logical formulas ‘P V Q’ and ‘¬P → Q’. The morpheme eller– of ellers reminds
one of the disjunctive relation between P and Q, and the lexical meaning of the adver-
bial anaphor ellers, combined with its clause-initial position in all our examples thus
far, is strongly suggestive of the implicational relation between Q and the negation of P.
We understand (13) below to communicate that the referent of the pronoun han/he did
leave and that the narrator did not lose his patience, the former due to the explicature of
the translational equivalents Da gikk han endelig and Then he finally left, the latter due
to the strongly implicated falsity of the assumption that the narrator maybe lost his pa-
tience. That implicature is triggered by the combined effect of ellers and a subjunctive
	 ‘Switch-polarity’ anaphora in English and Norwegian 227
use of the past perfect in the Norwegian source text, and by the combined effect of or
and a subjunctive modal marking in the English translation.
	 (13)	 Da gikk han endelig, det var på høy tid, ellers hadde jeg kanskje
then went he finally it was on high time otherwise had I maybe
mistet tålmodigheten.
lost patience →
Then he finally left, about time too, or I might have lost patience. (KA1)
Otherwise would have been freely substitutable for or in (13). And or could have been
left out, leaving us with two juxtaposed sentences, as in (13’).
	 (13′)	 Then he finally left, about time too. I might have lost patience.
Even in (13′), which has no or and no switch-polarity anaphor, the verbal sequence
might have lost would normally cause the addressee to construct a counterfactual con-
ditional with the protasis “if he had not left”.
3.4  Other conditionals
Ellers represents the protasis of a conditional in (14) below, but the conditional is not
of the same type as in §3.2. Rather, the token of ellers in (14) is supposed to be devel-
oped pragmatically into the protasis of a conditional that is hypothetical but not coun-
terfactual.
	 (14)	 Sprøyte eller ikke sprøyte, så måtte han få gjort noe med denne
needle or not needle so must.past he get done something with this
forbannede tannen. Ellers ville han hverken greie å kjempe for
damned tooth otherwise would he neither manage to fight for
jobben eller leiligheten.
the.job or the.apartment
→ Needle or no needle he had to get his tooth attended to. Until he did he
would be unable to fight for either his job or his flat.	 (EG1)
Observe that the English target text in (14) contains no linguistic element that could be
identified as a structure equivalent to a conditional clause. The English translation of
(14) transfers the conceptually underdetermined adverbial constraint from the condi-
tional sphere of the switch-polarity anaphor ellers to the temporal sphere of the truth-
conditionally highly underspecified clause until he did.10
	 English is the source language in (15). Otherwise is matched with ellers there. The
embedding of two infinitival clauses under the verb try (Norwegian prøve) indicates
10.  That is an acceptable choice on the part of the translator, though I would have thought that
the alternative “Otherwise he would be unable to fight …” is just as idiomatic as the translator’s
preference “Until he did he would be unable to fight …”.
228	 Thorstein Fretheim
that the communicator is unable to tell whether it is the two juxtaposed antecedent
propositions or the apodosis of the conditional, which will eventually prove to be true.
	 (15)	 I try to understand them, to find an explanation. Otherwise I shall go under
too.
→
Prøver å forstå dem, finne en forklaring.
try to understand them, find an explanation
Ellers går jeg nedenom jeg også.  (BV2)
otherwise go I down I too
The antecedent of otherwise/ellers in (15) does not include the matrix verb of the pre-
ceding sentence, because the pragmatically derived meaning that would make the final
utterance in (15) relevant obviously includes the condition “If I fail to try to understand
them and fail to find an explanation …”
3.5  When ‘or’ is the English speaker’s preference
When the antecedent of ellers contains a deontic modal auxiliary, the corresponding
English text in the ENPC contains the disjunctive connective or more often than the ad-
verb otherwise. And when the antecedent of ellers is an imperative, the English transla-
tions in the ENPC nearly always contain or, not otherwise, as illustrated in (16).
	 (16)	 “Forsøk å få jevnt maling på mønsteret, ellers blir det bare
try to get evenly paint on the.pattern otherwise becomes it just
søl.”
mess  →
“Try to spread the paint evenly over the pattern, or it’ll just be a mess  (BV1)
The speaker of (16) advises the hearer to act so as to make P true, because a true ¬P
leads to the truth of Q, a dismal result. Pragmatically there is no difference between
what is said in the Norwegian and the English versions, but while the English text con-
tains no conditional, a conditional with the anaphoric protasis ellers is obligatory in
this type of Norwegian imperative construction.
3.6  When the antecedent structure contains a negation marker
When the linguistic structure that enables a Norwegian addressee to identify the prop-
ositional referent of the switch-polarity anaphor ellers is a negative sentence, there is a
strong tendency for the speaker not to employ ellers but to change to a different ana-
phor, da (“then”), as illustrated in (17) where the first utterance is an admonition. Ellers
would sound awkward in (17). In English, if you wish to make the conditional charac-
ter of the second utterance manifest, you may use the disjunctive connective or, but the
	 ‘Switch-polarity’ anaphora in English and Norwegian 229
conditional meaning will be conveyed even without use of a connective. According to
my informants, neither then nor otherwise is a natural choice of anaphoric conditional
protasis here.
	 (17)	 Du må ikke lene deg mot det gelenderet. Da/#Ellers knekker det.
you must not lean refl against that banister then/otherwise breaks it
a.	 ‘You mustn’t lean against that banister. It’ll break.’
b.	 ‘You mustn’t lean against that banister. Or it’ll break.’
c.	 ‘You mustn’t lean against that banister. #Then it’ll break.’
d.	 ‘You mustn’t lean against that banister. #Otherwise it’ll break.’
The first utterance of (18) is a metarepresentation of the speaker’s decision not to go by
bus. Ellers sounds bad in the follow-up utterance, da is the right choice of conditional
anaphor there. And the English non-clausal alternatives with then, or and otherwise are
all of them highly dubious, in fact.
	 (18)	 Jeg tar ikke bussen.
I take not the.bus
a.	 Hvis jeg gjør det, kommer jeg ikke fram til flyplassen før flyet
	 if I do that come I not forth to the.airport before the.plane
	 har gått.
	 has gone
b.	 Da kommer jeg ikke fram til flyplassen før flyet har gått.
	 then ….
c.	 #Ellers kommer jeg ikke fram til flyplassen før flyet har gått.
	 otherwise …
	 ‘I’m not going to take the bus.’
a.	 ‘If I do, I won’t get to the airport before the plane takes off.’
b.	 #‘Then I won’t get to the airport before the plane takes off.’
c.	 #‘Or I won’t get to the airport before the plane takes off.’
d.	 #‘Otherwise I won’t get to the airport before the plane takes off.’
The conditional higher-order entity anaphor da (“then”) in (17) and (18) (see Fretheim,
2000, 2006; Fretheim, Boateng and Vaskó, 2003) is not of the switch-polarity type, but
it is generally true of higher-order entity anaphora that, if there is an accessible nega-
tive candidate referent in the immediately preceding discourse, then the correspond-
ing positive proposition will automatically be another accessible candidate referent. As
the final utterances of (17) and (18) describe undesirable situations, the condition ex-
pressed by the anaphor da (and by English then) will automatically be inferred to rep-
resent a state of affairs that causes the respective undesirable situations.We understand
that if the addressee of (17) does lean against the banister, then it is likely to break, and
if the speaker of (18) does take the bus, she will miss her flight.
	 Da allows you to select as conditional protasis the positive counterpart of a negative
230	 Thorstein Fretheim
proposition expressed in the previous utterance, and da will generally be chosen at the
expense of ellers.What is the linguistic or cognitive basis for this preference? And why
is otherwise a bad choice of connective in the English versions of (17) and (18)? It turns
out that occurrences of ellers and otherwise after a negative antecedent structure are ex-
ceedingly rare in the ENPC. Out of a total number of 116 tokens of otherwise that could
easily be pragmatically developed into a conditional protasis, only eight would be in-
ferred to be protases with a positive polarity. Just two of those were in English source
texts,11
the remaining six were in translations from Norwegian. The situation for Nor-
wegian ellers is not significantly different. Only a minuscule number of tokens of ellers
in the ENPC could have been replaced by a non-negative conditional clause.
	 Ellers appeared in the Norwegian source text in two of the six instances mentioned
above where the translator opted for otherwise even though the word would then repre-
sent a positive proposition. On one occasion there was no connective at all in the Nor-
wegian text, there were two occurrences of the connective da (“then”), and i så fall (“in
that case”) appeared once. My native English informants were not entirely happy with
any of the occurrences of otherwise in the ENPC translations of (19)–(24).
	 (19)	 I guess not. Otherwise I would have seen it, right? (ellers in the source text)
	 (20)	 He didn’t meet many people on the stairs; otherwise they would have noticed
he looked different. (ellers in the source text)
	 (21)	 Of course nothing had happened to her, he assured himself again; otherwise
they would have been notified. (i så fall — “in that case” — in the source text)
	 (22)	 And how was it that Karin hadn’t noticed that something was amiss? She ob-
viously hadn’t, otherwise she would have phoned the police and also contact-
ed him and Gertrud at the cabin. (da in the source text)
	 (23)	 Don’t breathe on him, though, otherwise he’ll pass out. (da in the source text)
	 (24)	 It may be a good thing that paternity actions cannot be brought on private
initiative on entirely inadequate grounds; otherwise there might be misuse
leading to scandalizing and blackmail. (no connective in the source text)
Even though otherwise is very rarely seen to stand for a positive proposition, use of then
as anaphoric conditional connective is apparently an even less viable option when the
preceding antecedent structure contains a negation operator. Not so in Norwegian. El‑
lers happened to be the translator’s choice in (25), at the expense of da (“then”). Ellers
and otherwise are lexical correspondents, so ellers is presumably the Norwegian word
that a translator would first associate with otherwise. Da would nevertheless have been
just as natural as ellers in the Norwegian translation of (25).
11.  One is found in my example (9) in §3.2.
	 ‘Switch-polarity’ anaphora in English and Norwegian 231
	 (25)	 … but one mustn’t entirely submerge one’s personality, I find, otherwise
[#then] one’s guests don’t know whom they’re meeting.
 →
 … men jeg er av den mening at man ikke bør undertrykke sin
  but I am of that opinion that one not should suppress poss.refl
egen personlighet fullstendig. Ellers [Da] vet ikke gjestene hvem de har
own personality entirely Otherwise know not the.guests who they have
med å gjøre  (JB1)
with to do
The lesson to be drawn from (19)–(25) is that the lexical item otherwise does not en-
code the constraint that its referent must be a negative proposition; the preponderance
of tokens of otherwise that represent a negative proposition does not mean that the lex-
ical definition in (6) should be augmented by an added condition that excludes a non-
negative referent. Otherwise is first and foremost used to refer to something that de-
viates from an unmarked existent, rather than non-existent, state of affairs. Data like
(19)–(25) where the deviation is stated in positive terms may be characterized as a par-
asitic pattern of usage. This kind of reasoning also applies to the situation in Norwe-
gian where the higher-order entity anaphor da (“then”) seems to be the more frequent
choice of connective when the antecedent structure expresses ¬P and the anaphoric
referent is P. The switch-polarity anaphor ellers tends to be avoided when the unmarked
situation is stated in negative terms and the marked situation represented by the ana-
phor is stated in positive terms.
4.  Otherwise/ellers as indicator of an exception — non-truth-conditional use?
4.1  A loosened or an enriched proposition Q?
A token of otherwise or ellers can represent an exceptional case, which implies that Q is
not an entirely true proposition but it would have been absolutely true if one disregard-
ed the exception. In certain situations the relative insignificance of the noted exception
implies that Q is true to all intents and purposes, so that otherwise/ellers can at most be
said to give the addressee an instruction to loosen truth conditions in accordance with
the descriptive content of the antecedent of otherwise/ellers. Let us contrast the English
example in (26a) with (26b).
	 (26)	 a.	 I only slept for four hours last night. Otherwise I’m fine.
b.	 I only slept for four hours last night but I’m fine.
The proposition P of the first utterance constitutes a contextual background against
which the truth and hence the relevance of the next utterance is to be assessed. In (26b)
where the adversative connective but links the explicatures P and Q, the proposition Q
232	 Thorstein Fretheim
of the second conjunct is claimed to be true without reservation, despite the commu-
nicated contrast between P and Q. In (26a), however, there is a communicated hedg-
ing on the part of the speaker, linguistically represented by the switch-polarity anaphor
otherwise. The speaker is expressing a proposition Q (“I’m feeling fine right now”) in
(26a) which is only loosely speaking true. Q would probably not be judged to be down-
right false because of the presence of otherwise. Should we then make the claim that the
inferentially derived proposition of the second utterance in (26a) includes the excep-
tion made manifest by the word otherwise that directs the addressee’s attention to the
meaning of the preceding utterance, so that the proposition could be paraphrased in
plain English as “I’m fine, except for the fact that I only slept for four hours last night.”?
It seems to me that the switch-polarity anaphor otherwise will have to be processed
differently in (26a) than in all our previous examples where for pragmatic reasons it
served the function of a truth-conditional constraint and was most relevantly treated as
the protasis of a conditional, whether counterfactual or not.
	 What makes (26a) different from the data considered previously is the fact that both
P and Q are asserted, they are both communicated propositions: explicatures. Observe
that in an example like (3) in §2.2, the thought that there would be trouble was not ex-
plicated. We understand that there would be trouble just in case Herman decided to
keep his southwester on (indoors, that is), and the first utterance in (3) is not an asser-
tion but a request. The lexical meaning of otherwise proposed in (6) instructs the ad-
dressee to develop this anaphor as the negation of the proposition P derived from the
antecedent structure. If P is a proposition that the communicator asserts to be true, and
if the truth-conditional content of Q is modified by its negation ¬P, then it would seem
to be illogical for the communicator to claim the truth of Q and P. When the disjunc-
tive relation between P and Q disappears, can we still maintain that otherwise is the
same word in (26a) as in the various conditional constructions presented in previous
sections? There is no risk that the utterance starting with otherwise will be given the
nonsensical interpretation “If I did not sleep (as little as) four hours last night, then I’m
fine”. The apodosis (consequent) of a conditional is not a relevance-theoretic explica-
ture, because its truth is contingent upon the truth of the protasis. Thus the meaning of
the second utterance of (26a) is something like “If you disregard the fact that I slept for
four hours last night, I’m fine”. The antecedent describes the exception, suggesting that
the speaker is not 100% fine. Due to the presence of otherwise in (26a), the addressee
will automatically infer that the gradable adjective fine is not to be understood as ‘100%
fine’, but then the lexical item fine is scalar and does not encode an absolute positive
quality. On the other hand, getting insufficient sleep is certainly not instrumental to any
person’s well-being. The speaker claims to be fine both in (26a) and (26b), but there is
an interesting pragmatic difference between the two.We may infer that even the speak-
er of (26b) probably does not feel 100% fine after a night like that, but only the speaker
of (26a) makes it manifest that the information conveyed in the first clause is intended
to affect the addressee’s pragmatic processing of the adjectival predicate fine in the next
clause.
	 ‘Switch-polarity’ anaphora in English and Norwegian 233
	 Within the framework of relevance theory there are at least two ways in which one
could account for the inferential phase that the addressee of (26a) is going through.
Otherwise draws the addressee’s attention to the fact that Q would be true without res-
ervation if P were false. Since P is an explicated proposition, its contradiction, ¬P, can-
not be endorsed by the communicator; hence it ought to be possible for the addressee
to enrich the logical form of the utterance starting with otherwise by incorporating the
assumption “I only slept for four hours last night” in its explicature, which could then
be paraphrased as “I’m fine, to the extent that one can feel fine after a night with four
hours of sleep”.
	 A different tack would be to argue that the first utterance of (26a) implicates, albe-
it possibly just weakly: “Four hours of sleep at night is generally insufficient”, and as a
consequence of that: “The insufficient sleep that I had last night has affected me nega-
tively”. Those implicatures are strengthened by the follow-up utterance Otherwise I’m
fine, which corroborates our prediction that the information given in the first utterance
is meant to serve as a contextual premise affecting the addressee’s conclusion about the
relative fitness or alertness of the communicator. The speaker is now seen to express a
proposition Q (“I am fine”), which is true in case we loosen its truth conditions in the
context of the implicatures derived from (26a).
	 What, then, is the correct pragmatic analysis of (26a)? One in terms of enrichment
at the explicit level, which incorporates the counterevidence (P) in the explicature of
the utterance Otherwise I’m fine, or one in terms of loosening of the truth conditions of
Q in the context of certain implicatures that suggest the speaker can hardly be fit as a
fiddle? Both analyses would seem to agree with Carston’s and other relevance theorists’
view of the relationship between what is encoded and what is said (cf. Carston 2002). At
the end of the day, in dealing with data like (26a), one may be tempted to arrive at the
conclusion that pragmatic enrichment and pragmatic loosening here amounts to the
same thing. However, the ENPC data to be presented in §4.2 makes me suspect that an
analysis in terms of loosening is sometimes the more natural alternative.12
4.2  Switch-polarity anaphora in complex nominal phrases
Norwegian ellers can represent an exception to the absolute truth of Q, just like other‑
wise.While a proposition Q modified by ellers may be strictly speaking false, it may be
loosely speaking true. Data from the ENPC — in (27)–(29) — illustrates that the switch-
12.  I do not think of ‘loosening’ as a panacea, though. No loosening of the meaning of the lex-
ical item ordinary is called for in the following example taken from one of the source texts of
the ENPC: “All I knew for sure about him was that he was reckoned to be a whiz kid in phys-
ics. Otherwise, he was an ordinary sort of boy with brown, wary hair and a lumpish build, like
a wrestler’s.” (TH1). Here the writer invites the reader to imagine that the boy referred to was,
contrary to fact, not remarkably good at physics. If that negative assessment were true, there
would be nothing to remember him for, and he would be quite correctly described as an ordin-
ary boy.
234	 Thorstein Fretheim
polarity anaphora ellers and otherwise as modifiers of a pre-nominal adjective do not
constrain the truth of Q. Consider (27) first.
	 (27)	 Jeg er det eneste friksjonsmomentet i hennes ellers så glatt
I am the only the.frictionmoment in her otherwise so smoothly
behagelige liv.  (EHA1)
comfortable life
→
I am the only point of friction in her otherwise smooth and comfortable life.
One would understand the Norwegian original and the English translation in (27) in
much the same way if the switch-polarity anaphora were left out, though their presence
may be said to emphasize more what a nuisance she (the daughter) believes she must
be to her mother. (27) does not express a counterfactual conditional. It is not as if the
mother’s life would have been smooth and comfortable if her daughter had not inter-
fered in it; we understand that her life is smooth and comfortable, at least on the surface.
Reading (28) we see that the table referred to is still truthfully described as a simple ta-
ble, in spite of certain misfits in the form of some bird shapes that are definitely not con-
stitutive of its simplicity.
	 (28)	 The bird shapes seemed unnecessarily ornate on an otherwise simple table.
→
Fuglefasongene virket unødig forseggjort på det ellers enkle bordet.  (FW1)
Notice that no contradiction ensues if we leave out the English switch-polarity anaphor
in (28). An utterance of The bird shapes seemed unnecessarily ornate on a simple table
does not tell us that the table would have been simple but for those bird shapes, it just
implicates that the bird shapes looked as if they did not belong there. And the presence
of otherwise and ellers in (28) enjoins the reader to pay attention to the discrepancy be-
tween the descriptions of the table and the bird shapes, as the table is said to be simple,
while the bird shapes on it are not. Basically, the table is still simple in spite of the avian
ornaments. Here a pragmatic analysis in terms of an enrichment of the complex nom-
inal phrase an otherwise simple table as a table that was simple except for the bird shapes
would seem to me to fall short of accounting for the communicator’s meaning. I would
prefer to say that the description of the table as simple is loosely speaking true, or ‘less-
than-literally’ true (Sperber and Wilson 1986b). (29) is an analogous example.
	 (29)	 Not very large and like the dabs filled in with brilliant colour on an otherwise
unfinished sketch.
→
Ikke spesielt store og som skjærende fargeflekker i en ellers
not particularly big and as searing colourspots in an otherwise
uferdig skisse.  (TH1)
unfinished sketch
	 ‘Switch-polarity’ anaphora in English and Norwegian 235
Those things that are said to be not very large in (29) are the blue eyes of a young woman
whose physical appearance is being described in the surrounding paragraph. The
woman is likened to an unfinished sketch, in an explicit simile construction starting
with the comparative preposition like. Her eyes are in fact an integral part of what is de-
scribed as an unfinished sketch, but the reader’s context-dependent comprehension of
the metaphorically used adjective unfinished and noun sketch will certainly be tinged by
the previous description of the woman’s eyes as dabs filled in with brilliant colour. Again,
invoking a process of conceptual loosening would appear to be intuitively superior to a
pragmatic process of enriching the meaning of the phrase an unfinished sketch, which
is, after all, figurative language, i.e. an ad hoc concept that requires a pragmatic inter-
pretation in terms of loose use (see Sperber and Wilson 1998; Carston 2002: 334–59).
	 We have seen some examples of the use of otherwise and ellers, in which their ante-
cedent proposition P constitutes but an exception, maybe an innocuous exception, to
the strict truth of Q, and the upshot of this is that the presence of the switch-polarity
anaphor, which attracts our attention to the way that ¬P might affect our inferential
processing, makes us aware that the communicator intends us to understand Q to be
loosely speaking true. The pragmatic loosening of the truth conditions derived from
the logical form of Q is warranted by the context even if the switch-polarity anaphora
are dropped in (27)–(29), but those markers heighten the addressee’s awareness of the
existence of a conflict between P on the one hand and a literal truth-conditional inter-
pretation of Q on the other hand.13
	 By insisting that otherwise and ellers do not encode a concept but a procedure for the
addressee to follow, as proposed in (6), we can account for the fact that these words do
not always impose a condition on the truth of Q. At times, as in (27)–(29), and arguably
also in (26a), Q is an explicated proposition; however, otherwise and ellers indicate that
the sentence they modify should be given a less than literal interpretation, because the
switch-polarity anaphor directs the reader to the assumption that there is some sort of
conflict between committing oneself to P and at the same time also to Q. But the con-
flict is resolved once we recognize the communicator’s intention to make the addressee
adjust the meaning of the phrases smooth and comfortable life in (27), simple table in
(28) and unfinished sketch in (29), in the context of a communicated P. Thus it would be
wrong to claim that the switch-polarity anaphora do not impinge on explicit content in
(27)–(29) and similar cases. Their procedural meaning is as described in (6), regardless
of whether Q is an explicature, as in (26a) and (27)–(29), or the consequent of a condi-
tional, as in all previous illustrations. The existence of a conspicuous difference in prag-
matic meaning should not tempt us to postulate two distinct linguistic meanings for
the switch-polarity anaphora. The interpretation of Q as an explicated proposition de-
pends on the recognition that the communicator appears to be endorsing P as well as
13.  For a recent study of how a word that encodes a procedure instructs the hearer to assign a
‘loose talk’ interpretation to its scope in an utterance, see Andersen’s (2000a, 2000b) account of
the English discourse marker like.
236	 Thorstein Fretheim
Q, even though Q can be true on a literal reading only in a context in which ¬P, repre-
sented by the switch-polarity anaphor, is true and P false.
5.  ellers and ‘else’
While Norwegian ellers combines freely with wh-question words, otherwise is much
less common than else in that environment (but see example (10) in §3.2). The seman-
tic resemblance between else and otherwise is transparent. S1, or else S2 is equivalent to
S1, otherwise S2, but else in the former structure needs the support of the co-occurring
connective or, and otherwise in the latter may not co-occur with or.
	 Examples (30)–(32) are three selected ENPC correspondences in which ellers is
matched with else in wh-interrogatives which serve the function of rhetorical ques-
tions.
	 (30)	 How else would you get up here?
→
Hvordan skulle de ellers komme seg hit opp?  (RR1)
how should they otherwise come themselves hither up
	 (31)	 Sonia happened to be living off the State’s munificence, with three small chil-
dren.What else was she to do?
→
Slik gikk det til at Sonia kom til å leve av statens generøsitet, med
so happened it that S. came to live off the.state’s generosity with
tre små barn. Hva kunne hun ellers gjøre?  (FW1)
three small children what could she otherwise do
	 (32)	 “Why should it interest you so much,” she asks, “to write a story about people
telling each other stories in order to forget about the Plague outside?”
“Why else does one tell stories?”
→
“Hvorfor er du så opptatt,” spør hun, “av å skrive en historie om mennesker
why are you so occupied asks she by to write a story about people
som forteller hverandre historier for å glemme Pesten utenfor?”
who tell each-other stories for to forget the.Plague outside
“Hvorfor forteller man ellers historier?”  (ABR1)
why tells one otherwise stories
Example (30) lacks a preceding antecedent sentence in the text presented there, but we
realize that the communicator is putting forward the opinion that there is just one way
to ascend, and that avenue must have been referred to already. The negative proposition
“There is no way to get up here” is held to be true just in case ¬P, represented by else and
ellers alike, is true, but as the communicator ostensively vouches for the truth of P, she
	 ‘Switch-polarity’ anaphora in English and Norwegian 237
is understood to be committed to the truth of the contradiction “There is a way to get
up here”, and a proposition P derived from the immediately preceding discourse must
have described that unique way. (31) is similar, but there we have access to P and are
able to recover the explicature “There was nothing Sonia could do, except living off the
State’s munificence”. And in (32) the anaphoric items else and ellers represent the rea-
son indicated by the wh-word why in the second speaker’s turn.
	 In the absence of else and ellers, (30)–(32) could have been information-seeking
questions but the presence of the switch-polarity anaphora signals that these interroga-
tives are to be understood as rhetorical questions. The communicator has already ex-
pressed the antecedent P and is committed to P, hence also to the falsity of ¬P. But since
else and ellers represent ¬P, our conclusion must be that the wh-interrogatives would be
relevant only in a counterfactual context in which P was false and ¬P true. The answer
to the wh-interrogatives in (30)–(32) is already given in the immediately preceding dis-
course and the relevance of the interrogatives lies mainly in the communicator’s higher-
level explicatures “I believe there to be no other way to get up here than by acting in such
and such a way”, “I believe she could have done nothing but live off the State’s munifi‑
cence”, “I believe there to be no other reason for telling stories than to forget temporarily
about the Plague”, respectively.
	 Else is a switch-polarity anaphor just like otherwise, but what is the semantic dif-
ference between those two lexical items? Their distributions appear to be nearly com-
plementary. (33) below is an exhaustive list of expressions with else that appear in the
ENPC, matched with their most frequent Norwegian correspondents and with literal
glosses in parenthesis. There are three subcategories, a, b and c.
	 (33)	 a.	 something else — noe annet (something other.neut)
	 anything else — noe annet (anything other.neut)
	 someone else/somebody else — en annen (an other.masc)
	 anyone else/anybody else — noen andre (any others)
	 nothing else — ikke noe annet (not any other.neut)
	 no one else — ingen annen (none other.masc); ingen andre (none others)
	 somewhere else — et annet sted (an other.neut place)
	 anywhere else — noe annet sted (any other.neut place)
	 everything else — alt annet (all other.neut)
	 all else — alt annet (all other.neut)
	 everyone else/everybody else — alle andre (all others)
	 everywhere else — alle andre steder (all other places)
	 (not) much else — (ikke) stort annet ((not) greatly other.neut)
b.	 what else — hva annet (what other.neut); hva … ellers (what … otherwise)
	 whatever else — hva … ellers (what … otherwise)
	 how else — hvordan … ellers (how … otherwise)
	 why else — hvorfor … ellers (why … otherwise)
	 who else — hvem … ellers (who … otherwise); hvem andre (who others)
238	 Thorstein Fretheim
	 where else — hvor … ellers (where … otherwise)14
c.	 or else — eller (or)
In sentences that contain expressions listed under (33a), where the head of the nom-
inal phrase is a quantifier word, the switch-polarity anaphor else is a post-head modifier
whose semantic function appears to be similar to the function of a restrictive relative
clause. In (33b) the head is not an existential or universal quantifier but a wh-word. The
syntactic and semantic relation between the wh-word and else is apparently of a looser
sort in (33b) than in (33a). Semantically the switch-polarity anaphor else in (33b) is a
context-dependent condition that must be brought to bear in the process of utterance
interpretation. Thus the meaning of else conforms to the procedural meaning of other‑
wise/ellers stated in (6). Finally, (33c) has a single member, the collocation or else, which
is also compatible with (6), in that the antecedent of else is invariably the contradictory
counterpart of P in the disjunction P V Q.
	 The characterization given here of the functional difference between category (33a)
and the categories (33b) and (33c) is supported by a comparison between the English
expressions and their respective Norwegian correspondents. In (33a), the most com-
mon Norwegian correspondent of else is an adjective-like word whose stem means
“other”, or “different” (see Fretheim, 2004a). Ellers is seen to take over as the dominant
lexical correspondent of else in (33b), though.What else appears to be in an intermedi-
ate position, as this phrase has two equally frequent Norwegian correspondents in the
ENPC, the continuous expression hva annet with a post-nominal modifier of the same
sort as in (33a), and the non-adjacent elements hva … ellers, where the adverb ellers
does not form a constituent with the wh-word.15
Ellers generally occupies the adverbial
position to the right of the finite verb and the subject nominal when it co-occurs with
a wh-word, as evidenced by the syntactic differences between the English source texts
and the Norwegian translations in (30)–(32).
	 The obvious conclusion to be drawn from the correspondences in (33) is that from a
grammatical point of view else has an adjectival (relative clause) function in (33a) and
an adverbial (conditional) function in (33b) and (33c). There are not many co-occur-
rences of otherwise and the wh-words why, how, who and where in the ENPC, but with
some slight changes in the syntactic form it is possible to substitute otherwise for else
in such wh-questions as (30) and (32), which testifies to the adverbial character of else
in those examples. Though one cannot always expect to find a natural paraphrase with
a conditional clause in lieu of the anaphor, a negative conditional clause would never-
theless be a suitable substitution for else in (30) and (32), and even in (31) where the
14.  For some reason unknown to me, the wh-word when rarely, or never, co-occurs with else,
and literally never in the ENPC; cf. Otherwise when will they be informed? vs. ??When else will
they be informed?. Also, which one(s) else is another virtually non-existent phrase.
15.  The wh-word hva (what) and ellers are adjacent only in the non-clausal rhetorical question
Hva ellers? (“What else?”).
	 ‘Switch-polarity’ anaphora in English and Norwegian 239
wh-word is what, the communicator inserts else in order to invite the addressee to in-
fer what the answer to the question would be if Sonia had received no support from the
State.
	 There is no evidence that the ‘adjectival’ else and the ‘adverbial’ else are distinct lexic-
al items. To the extent that we can discern two different uses, this is a distinction to be
drawn at the pragmatic level, not in the English lexicon. And at the level of pragmat-
ics there may in fact be no genuine difference between ‘adjectival’ and ‘adverbial’ else. A
wh-question with else does not have to be rhetorical like the questions in (30)–(32). An
utterance of (34) would normally be an information-seeking question.
	 (34)	 Who else did you see?
Here the switch-polarity anaphor else could be enriched as “If we disregard the fact that
you saw x”, where x is a contextually retrievable human referent. The intended prag-
matic meaning of else functions like a contextual premise which constrains the rele-
vance of the question “Who did you see?”. But (34) can also be happily paraphrased as
“Who did you see, who is not x?”, where else is enriched as a relative clause whose head
is the wh-word. In (35), which occurs in the ENPC, the anaphor else is combined with
the negative existential quantifier no one. Notice the Norwegian translation with the
expression ingen andre (literally: no others). Both quantified phrases, English no one
else and Norwegian ingen andre, must be pragmatically enriched to the point where
they make a truth-evaluable contribution to the proposition expressed.
	 (35)	 It was Brad who had come to my rescue. …
No one else seemed to be around to notice anything. →
Det var Brad som hadde kommet meg til unnsetning. …
it was B. who had come me to rescue
Det var visst ingen andre som hadde sett opptrinnet.
there were part no others who had seen the.incident.
Only a small part of the conceptual material of the antecedent structure will be used in
the addressee’s inferential process of enriching else in (35). The meaning of the negative
statement in (35) is that there seemed to be no person x, such that x is not Brad (= else)
and x noticed what was happening. But the way to say this in idiomatic English is not
by means of a relative clause, the entrenched patterns of usage involve such inherently
negative expressions as except, with the exception of, apart from, or the preposition but.
	 (35), and even more strikingly (36) compared to (37), illustrates that else affects our
understanding of the truth-conditional content of the utterance in which it occurs, just
like otherwise in (38).
	 (36)	 John was in the next room but no one else was there.
	 (37)	 
#
John was in the next room but no one was there.
	 (38)	 John was in the next room but otherwise no one was there.
240	 Thorstein Fretheim
However, data of the sort presented here should not make us jump to the conclusion
that the contribution of else to the proposition expressed must be defined at the level
of lexical content. It is the pragmatically derived meaning of the utterance in a selected
context that warrants the conclusion that else places a constraint on the truth-condi-
tional content of the utterances at issue. Its truth-conditional contribution is seen to be
less transparent in B’s utterance in (39), for example, if we compare (39) with the cor-
responding utterance in the minimally different dialogue of (40).
	 (39)	 Abe:	
It’s a shame that Ernie couldn’t accompany me on my Antarctic expedi-
tion.
Sue:	 Well … everyone else thinks you were lucky.
	 (40)	 Abe:	
It’s a shame that Ernie couldn’t accompany me on my Antarctic expedi-
tion.
Sue:	 Well … everyone thinks you were lucky.
The word else in (39) is a discourse variable there as in previous illustrations, an ana-
phoric item whose reference has to be determined in context. A context-dependent
quantifier restriction is necessary in the truth-conditional processing of the utterance
everyone thinks you were lucky as well as in processing the longer utterance everyone
else thinks you were lucky, because the universal quantifier everyone cannot possibly re-
fer to “everyone in the universe”. Sue must have had a mutually manifest set of individ-
uals in mind (possibly a rather fuzzy set, because the universal quantification does look
like a hyperbole). But apart from the required quantifier domain restriction, what is
the contribution of the word else to the relevance of Sue’s utterance in (39)? It certainly
makes more manifest the contrast between the general opinion that Sue attributes to
‘everyone’ and the exceptional view held by Abe himself, but Sue’s communicated as-
sumption that Abe’s feelings about Ernie is at odds with what the rest of them feel about
Ernie (and of his hypothetical role as Antarctic expedition companion for Abe) is not
included in the proposition expressed in (39), in the explicature of the utterance every‑
one else thinks you were lucky. The quantification in “Everyone thinks you were lucky”
is in need of pragmatic adjustment in (39) and (40) alike, with or without the switch-
polarity anaphor.
	 Pending a deeper insight into the matter I would make the provisional proposal that
else and otherwise have the same lexical meaning, that else is often the preferred choice
when a switch-polarity anaphor accompanies a wh-variable and even more frequently
when it accompanies a quantifier word, and that else is also the switch-polarity anaphor
that co-occurs with or in or else. Although other Norwegian translations are possible as
well, the function of ellers is equivalent to that of else.16
16.  Ellers has some additional uses that do not correspond to otherwise or else. See section 6 of
Fretheim (2004b), which shares part of its title with the present chapter.
	 ‘Switch-polarity’ anaphora in English and Norwegian 241
6.  Concluding remarks
Otherwise, else and ellers were judged to have truth-conditional consequences in many
of our examples, both invented ones and those that were extracted from the ENPC,
but occasionally, as shown in section 4, the impact of these anaphoric markers on ex-
plicit propositional content is very slight, or maybe not manifest at all. This variabili-
ty is understandable, because truth-conditional content is claimed to be the result of a
combination of grammar-driven decoding and relevance-driven pragmatic inference.
Relevance theory gives me an opportunity to define the lexical meaning of otherwise/
else/ellers in procedural terms, as I tried to do in the formulation in (6), which spells out
my belief that these words do not denote anything in and by themselves. Rather, they
make a crucial part of the intended context more manifest to the addressee. It is not so
that the switch-polarity anaphor itself is sometimes truth-conditional and sometimes
non-truth-conditional. It has a univocal procedural meaning. The addressee’s assess-
ment of the degree to which an utterance U modified by a switch-polarity anaphor and
the utterance containing its antecedent can be understood to express mutually compat-
ible speaker meanings will be a major determinant of the communicative role of a given
token of a switch-polarity anaphor, and in particular of the question whether its pres-
ence constrains the truth conditions of the proposition expressed by U.
	 Within relevance theory it has been accepted practice for at least a decade (Wil-
son and Sperber 1993) to say that an anaphor encodes a procedural meaning affecting
truth-conditional content, but the assumption that not only truth-conditional personal
pronouns and higher-entity pronouns but even non-truth-conditional anaphora can
profitably be analysed in a similar way is quite new. Fretheim (2002) and Fretheim and
Johansson (2002) offer an analysis of the lexical meaning of the Norwegian non-truth-
conditional concessive anaphor likevel/allikevel (“nevertheless”, “still”, “yet”, “anyway”;
“after all”) in terms of procedural semantics, and Fretheim and Vaskó (2004) offers a
procedural analysis of what is referred to as ‘weak concessives’ in Norwegian and Hun-
garian. The major difference between the treatment of concessives as anaphora and the
linguistic phenomena examined in this chapter is that a concessive is invariably non-
truth-conditional at the pragmatically derived level of explicit content, while the proce-
dural lexical meaning proposed for otherwise/else/ellers enabled me to account for why
they often, but not always, constrain the proposition expressed the way that the protasis
of a material conditional would do.
	 ‘Linguistic semantics’ cannot be equated with ‘truth-conditional semantics’. The
former includes not only conceptual semantics but also procedural semantics. The lat-
ter may be more appropriately referred to as ‘truth-conditional pragmatics’, as its (out-
put) representations include wholly inferred constituents of the proposition expressed
and context-dependent enrichment as well as loosening of the linguistically encoded
conceptual meaning of lexical items and phrases when certain contextual assumptions
seem to make it necessary to deviate from a literal interpretation. Because otherwise,
242	 Thorstein Fretheim
else and ellers are function words which do not encode a concept but a procedure for
the addressee to follow, they will be perceived to add a truth condition in some contexts
and to open for a pragmatic loosening process in other contexts.
Acknowledgement
I would like to express my thanks to the Santa Fe group, and especially to Jeanette. I am also
grateful to Kaja Borthen, to Nancy Hedberg, and to an anonymous reviewer, for their comments
on my chapter.
References
Andersen, Gisle. 2000a. “The role of the pragmatic marker like in utterance interpretation.” In
Pragmatic Markers and Propositional Attitude, G. Andersen and T. Fretheim, (eds), 17–38.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Andersen, Gisle. 2000b. Pragmatic Markers and SociolinguisticVariation. Amsterdam: John Ben-
jamins.
Blakemore, Diane. 1987. Semantic Constraints on Relevance. Oxford: Blackwell.
Blakemore, Diane. 2002. Relevance and Linguistic Meaning: The Semantics and Pragmatics of
Discourse Markers. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Carston, Robyn. 2002. Thoughts and Utterances: The Pragmatics of Explicit Communication. Ox-
ford: Blackwell.
Cornish, Francis. 1999. Anaphora, Discourse, and Understanding: Evidence from English and
French. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Erkü, Feride and Gundel, Jeanette K. 1987. “The pragmatics of indirect anaphors.” In The Prag‑
matic Perspective, J. Verschueren and M. Bertuccelli-Papi, (eds), Amsterdam: John Ben-
jamins, 533–45.
Fretheim, Thorstein. 2000. “The semantic difference between Norwegian hvis-da (“if-then”) and
hvis-så (≠ “if-then”).” In The Nordic Languages and Modern Linguistics, G. Thórhallsdóttir,
(ed), 10, 81–92. Reykjavík: University of Iceland.
Fretheim, Thorstein. 2002. “Interpreting concessive adverbial markers in English and Norwe-
gian discourse.” In Information Structure in a Cross-Linguistic Perspective, H. Hasselgård,
S. Johansson, B. Behrens, and C. Fabricius-Hansen, (eds),. 1–20. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Fretheim, Thorstein. 2003. “A relevance-theoretic account of the way we use and understand the
English temporal adverb again and its Norwegian counterpart igjen.” Languages in Con‑
trast 3: 1, 41–94.
Fretheim, Thorstein. 2004a. “Predicating a difference between two entities: How much is seman-
tics, how much pragmatics?” Working Papers ISK #1, NTNU, 25–44.
Fretheim, Thorstein. 2004b. “‘Switch-polarity’ anaphora in English and Norwegian.”Working
­
Papers ISK #1, NTNU, 45–68.
Fretheim, Thorstein. 2006. “English then and Norwegian da/så compared: A relevance-theoretic
account.” Nordic Journal of Linguistics 29: 45–93.
	 ‘Switch-polarity’ anaphora in English and Norwegian 243
Fretheim, Thorstein and Johansson, Stig. 2002. “The semantics and pragmatics of the Norwe-
gian concessive marker likevel: Evidence from the English–Norwegian Parallel Corpus.” In
From the COLT’s mouth … and others’: Language Corpora Studies In Honour of Anna-Brita
Stenström, L. E. Breivik & A. Hasselgren, (eds), 81–102. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Fretheim, Thorstein, Boateng, Stella, and Vaskó, Ildikó. 2003. “Then — adverbial pro-form or
inference particle? A comparative study of English, Ewe, Hungarian, and Norwegian.” In
Meaning Through Language Contrast, K. M. Jaszczolt and K. Turner, (eds), Vol. 2, 51–74,
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Fretheim, Thorstein and Vaskó, Ildikó. 2004. “The re-analysis of a causal connective as a conces-
sive connective in Hungarian and Norwegian.” Working Papers ISK #1, NTNU, 89–116.
Gutt, Ernst-August. 2000. Translation and Relevance: Cognition and Context. Manchester: St.
Jerome Publishing.
Recanati, François. 1993. Direct Reference: From Language to Thought. Oxford: Blackwell.
Searle, John R. 1979. Expression and Meaning. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Sperber, Dan and Wilson, Deirdre. 1986a. Relevance: Communication and Cognition. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Sperber, Dan and Wilson, Deirdre. 1986b. “Loose talk.” Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society
86: 153–71.
Sperber, Dan and Wilson, Deirdre. 1995. Relevance: Communication and Cognition. 2nd edition
with a Postface. Oxford: Blackwell.
Sperber, Dan and Wilson, Deirdre. 1998. “The mapping between the mental and the public
lexicon.” In Language and Thought: Interdisciplinary Themes, P. Carruthers and J. Boucher,
(eds), 184–200. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Wilson, Deirdre and Sperber, Dan. 1993. “Linguistic form and relevance.” Lingua 90: 1–25.
chapter 11
What on earth
Non-referential interrogatives*
Maria Polinsky
Harvard University
The question of how the speaker ‘delivers’ the intended referent to the addressee has
long played a central role in studies of information structure. This general question
subsumes such problems as the degree of flexibility the speaker has in signaling the
referent’s cognitive status to the addressee, the isomorphism (or lack thereof) between
the form of a linguistic expression and the interpretation of the referent, and the cor-
relation between referential status and information structural categories. In bringing
together information structure and discourse/referential status, researchers have paid
most attention to ‘definite’ and/or ‘specific’, probably because of its strong correlation
with topic (Gundel 1974, 1975, 1985; Gundel et al. 1993; Lambrecht 1994; Prince 1998,
and many others). This chapter is an attempt to give more coverage to the referential
status at the other end of the spectrum, namely, non-referential or characterized by in-
tensional reference. In what follows, I present and analyze a particular type of wh-ex-
pression which I will argue to have a non-referential property denotation. I also argue
that the semantic status of these expressions determines a number of syntactic proper-
ties associated with them.
	 Wh-expressions display a well-known three-way distinction:
	 (1)	 Classes of wh-expressions
a.	
wh-expressions whose use in a question does not limit the range of felici-
tous answers in a predetermined manner (interrogative pronouns);
b.	
wh-expressions whose use in a question limits the range of felicitous an-
swers to a closed set of entities that the speaker or hearer has in mind
(D‑linked interrogatives such as which);
 
*  I am very happy to present this squib to Jeanette Gundel. Jeanette’s work on discourse and its in-
terfacewithgrammarhasbeenaninspirationformyownresearch.Herworkoninformationstruc-
turestartedlongbeforeanyoneelsethoughtofthatasarelevantfieldofinquiry,andoverthecourse
of many years her discoveries in this field have guided many researchers, including this one.
	 For helpful discussions of this chapter, I would like to thank Wind Cowles, Hana Filip, Nancy
Hedberg, Robert Kluender, Knud Lambrecht, Ron Langacker and an anonymous reviewer. The
Russian data are courtesy of Vladimir Gitt, Alla Liokumovich, Gregory Lipkin, Alex Polinsky, and
Alex Yanovsky. All errors are my sole responsibility.
246	 Maria Polinsky
c.	
wh-expressions whose use in a question does not even presume an an-
swer (although such an answer is not excluded).
	 To illustrate, if one asks ‘Who(m) did you invite?’, using an interrogative pronoun
proper, the answer may be ‘Nobody’, and even if the respondent did indeed invite some-
one, there is no premeditated limitation of the possible set of such people. On the other
hand, in asking ‘Which students did you invite?’, the speaker sets a definite limit on the
set of possible people on the invite list, and this is a defining characteristic of so-called
discourse-linked (d-linked) expressions. And finally, the question ‘Who in the world
did you invite?’ serves quite a different goal—it expresses the speaker’s indignation and
bewilderment over some property of the invitee(s), without any special reference to a
presupposed set of those people. It is quite easy to imagine that the answer to this last
question might be ‘I am sorry’, something that would be completely infelicitous in re-
sponse to the first two questions above.
Wh-expressions of this type—(1c) above—are
referred to as ‘(aggressively) non-d-linked’ as they truly resist the d-linked interpret-
ation (Pesetsky 1987: 111–19). To avoid repeating the clumsy term ‘aggressively non-
d-linked wh-words’ in relation to expressions such as the English what in the world or
what the hell, in what follows I will use the abbreviation NDL.
	 A large body of literature on the phenomenon of d-linking is concerned with the syn-
tax of d-linked and non-d-linked wh-expressions, in particular with their (in)ability to
undergo movement (Pesetsky 1987; Comorovski 1996; Tanaka 1995; Dayal 1993–4;
Lewis 1999; Polinsky 2001; Cornilescu 2002; and many others). Many researchers have
also shown that the information structural import of d-linked wh-words is different
from that of interrogative pronouns, distinguishing them in terms of their referential
properties. The consensus with regard to d-linked expressions is that they are inher-
ently referential (Anagnastopoulou 1993; Cinque 1996; Baltin 1996; Kluender 1998).
NDLs however have received less attention in the literature than their more definite
counterparts, although the recent work by den Dikken and Giannakidou (2001, 2002)
has advanced our understanding of their syntax and semantics. This chapter is an at-
.  Some English speakers treat questions such as Who the hell did you invite? as indeed asking
who it was, referentially (Ron Langacker, personal communication). For such speakers, the Rus-
sian construction discussed below seems more analogous to another sort of English question,
namely What kind of guests does he invite?, which does not really ask for specification of a kind.
It is possible that wh- the hell questions are ambiguous between the reading that requires unique
identification of the referent and the reading that does not call for a specific answer; if such am-
biguity is common across languages one would hope for a more principled explanation of the
reason the two readings co-occur. Note that in English, the two readings are distinguished by
prosody. Thus, in (i), which has the same prosody as a question with a regular interrogative pro-
noun, there is an expectation of unique identification; in (ii), there is no such expectation.
	 (i)	 Who the hell did you invite?
	 (ii)	 Who the hell did you invite?
	 At this point I cannot account for those wh-the-hell-questions that ask for a unique identifica-
tion.
	 Non-referential interrogatives 247
tempt to pay more attention to the neglected child in the family of interrogative expres-
sions.
	 At first blush, the solution may seem quite simple: given that interrogative pronouns
and d-linked wh-words differ in terms of referentiality, it may be tempting to simply
rank NDLs lower than the interrogative pronouns and d-linked expressions in terms of
their referentiality and definiteness. However, this solution immediately faces several
problems. If the three types of wh-words are part of just one scale, it somehow entails
that they all share certain properties (beyond the trivial one of being interrogatives),
which is not immediately obvious. A cursory look at English shows that NDLs dif-
fer from the other two types of interrogatives in that they cannot embed (2c) (see also
Obenauer 1994; den Dikken and Giannakidou 2002):
	 (2)	 a.	 I wonder whom you invited
b.	 I wonder which students you invited
c.	 
*I wonder who the hell/who on earth you invited
Next, interrogative pronouns and d-linked expressions differ in the activation of their
referent. Assuming the Givenness Hierarchy proposed in Gundel et al. (1993), d-linked
expressions refer back to a set that is either directly activated (through prior mention)
or inferred/familiar, as in (3), where the stars (in our galaxy) are assumed to be famil-
iar.
	 (3)	 Which stars are really planets?
Ordinary interrogative pronouns may link back like this but don’t have to. This sug-
gests that they are lower than ‘familiar’ on the Givenness Hierarchy.
NDLs do not even
have to evoke an answer, which suggests that they may be lower on the Givenness Hier-
archy. But there is still another possibility, namely that NDLs simply do not have a place
on the Givenness Hierarchy—it may exclude other expressions, for example quantifier
phrases and possibly proper nouns (however, see Mulkern 1996 for a different view). I
will return to this problem at the end of the chapter.
	 In addition to the degree of activation, d-linked and regular pronouns differ in their
lexical content (Chung 1994; Kluender 1998); interrogative pronouns have no lexic-
al content, while d-linked expressions clearly do, just by virtue of naming the set from
which the referent needs to be selected (which student).Where do NDLs stand in terms
of lexical content? They obviously have expressive content, at least in English where
they tend to occur with colorful expressions often involving negative connotations (wh-
the hell, the fuck, on earth, in the world, in tarnation, in God’s name, in hell, etc.),
but do
.  I am indebted to Nancy Hedberg for this observation.
.  At first glance, the co-occurrence with various expressions denoting hell and heaven seems
quite pervasive (Spanish Wh- diablo, Fr. Wh- diable, German Wh- zum Teufel/Himmel, Rus-
sian kakogo čerta, Hebrew Wh-le-‘azazel), but this may represent a (cultural) areal feature than
a principled generalization. No devil or hell occurs in NDLs in Japanese (ittai + Wh), ­Korean
248	 Maria Polinsky
they have descriptive content?
	 The essence of the proposal made in this chapter is that NDLs are quite different
from the other members of the interrogative family in that they are property denota-
tions and thus have intensional reference only. The reference to properties, not entities,
sets them aside from the other two types of interrogatives. The property-denoting char-
acteristic of NDLs determines their distribution.
	 In what follows, I will discuss the distinction between intensional and extension-
al reference and then present and analyze NDLs in Russian, arguing for the proposal
made here.
1.  Extensional and intensional reference
Frege’s 1892 seminal work on Sinn and Bedeutung (Frege 1892) inspired Rudolf Car-
nap’s formalization of the notions of intension and extension (Carnap 1947/1967),
which are easy to conceptualize in set theoretic terms. Carnap (1947/1967) suggested
that the sense (~Frege’s Sinn) of an expression, for which he used the term intension, is
a function from possible worlds and times, which gives, for any world and time, the de-
notation of the expression, which Carnap called its extension (~Frege’s Bedeutung) in
that world. The intension of an expression amounts to all the varying extensions (deno-
tations) the expression can have. The intension determines the extension by determin-
ing for any world and time the extension of a given expression in that world and time.
	 The difference between extension and intension is particularly apparent in the an-
alysis of unique objects. For example, ‘the last Roman dictator’, ‘the conqueror of Gaul’,
and ‘Julius Caesar’ all have the same extension (the Roman consul born in 100 BC
and assassinated in 44 BC), but differ in their intension: ‘the last Roman dictator’ is a
property defined by this definite description, ‘the conqueror of Gaul’ is another prop-
erty, and ‘Julius Caesar’, if understood literally, does not have an intension. Intension is
therefore useful in distinguishing different linguistic expressions that have the same de-
notation.
	 In the case of a sentence, the intension determines for any world and time, the truth
value of the sentence in that world and time: it is a function from possible worlds and
(toteychey + Wh), Malagasy (Wh + re). In Tsez (Nakh-Daghestanian), NDLs are formed as
tautological expressions (ii), (iv):
	 (i)	 λu ‘who (ergative)’
	 (ii)	 λux-λu ‘who in the world’
	 (iii)	 šebi ‘who, what (absolutive)’
	 (iv)	 šebix-šebi ‘who/what in the world’
	 Finally, some Russian data discussed below show that the negative attitude conveyed by such
expressions belongs with pragmatic implicatures, rather than inherent content of NDLs.
	 Non-referential interrogatives 249
times to truth values. A proposition expressed by a given sentence can be thus con-
strued as the set of possible worlds in which the proposition is true. This entails that an
assignment of truth values based on extensional reference requires the valuation of the
relevant members of the extension; for instance, to assign a truth value to (4) below, one
needs to check all the members of the feline class for the presence of a tail; accordingly,
if some tailless cats are found, (4) is rendered false.
	 (4)	 All cats have tails
An assignment of truth values based on intensional reference requires that the proper-
ty denoted by the predicate follows from the property expressed by the logical subject.
For (4), this means affirming that the property of being a cat entails the possession of a
tail; under intensional assignment, the proposition expressed by (4) can be true even if
many cats are found missing tails (McCawley 1993: 494–7).
	 This rough sketch of the difference between extension and intension cannot do jus-
tice to the rich system of intensional logic developed by Carnap (1967) and Montague
(1974), but it is sufficient for the purposes of this chapter, where the main contrast is be-
tween entity-denotations and property-denotations.
2.  Wh-words in Russian: čto za + N
Recall the three way distinction among wh-words introduced in (1a–c). Russian en-
codes this distinction in the manner shown in Table 1. As mentioned earlier, my main
concern in this chapter is with type (c), but its properties cannot be evaluated without a
direct comparison with types (a) and (b).
2.1  Morphosyntactic properties of čto za
The expression čto za has to be followed by a noun; no other category is allowed. If what
follows looks like an adjective, this adjective must have undergone nominalization, as
is shown in (5b):
Table 1.  Wh-expressions in Russian
a.	
Unmarked interrogatives (their use in
a question does not limit the range of
felicitous answers)
kto ‘who’, čto ‘what (n)’, kakoj ‘what (adj)’,
kogda ‘when’, skol′ko ‘how many’, etc.
b.	
D-linked (their use in a question limits the
range of felicitous answers)
wh-word + imenno ‘precisely’ (kto imenno, etc.)
c.	
Non-d-linked (use in a question does not
require an answer)
čto za ‘what for’ + noun
250	 Maria Polinsky
	 (5)	 a.	 
*čto za svetloe kupili?
	 what for light-colored bought
	 (‘What kind of a light colored thing did they buy?’)
b.	 
*čto za zelenye vyrosli?
	 what for green grew up
	 *‘What kind of green things grew up?’
	
OK: ‘How come they grew up to be environmentalists (green-party
members)?’
	 Next, čto za-N′ cannot be governed by a preposition. This restriction applies to both
elements of the expression: neither čto za itself nor the nominal that follows it can be
governed. This is illustrated in (6a–c) by different combinations of the preposition s
‘with’ which requires the instrumental case:
	 (6)	 a.	 
*s čem za durak-ami ty vodiš′ sja
	 with wh.instr for fool-instr.pl 2sg hang out.pres.2sg
b.	 
*s čto za durak-ami ty vodiš′ sja
	 with wh.nom for fool-instr.pl 2sg hang out.pres.2sg
c.	 
*čto za s durak-ami ty vodiš′sja
	 wh.nom for with fool-instr.pl 2sg hang out.pres.2sg
	 (‘What kind of fools do you hang out with?’)
Prepositionless čto za-N′ are preferred in the nominative and accusative; other prepo-
sitionless forms are questionable at best (7):
	 (7)	 a.	 ??
čto za slov im ne xvataet?
	 what for word-gen.pl 3pl.dat not suffice?
	 ‘What the hell words are they missing?’
b.	 ??
čto za umnik-u prišla v golovu takaja mysl′?
	 what for wizard-dat arrived in head such thought
	 ‘Who on earth could think of this?’
c.	 ??
čto za diktator-om byli prinjaty èti rešenija?
	 what for dictator-instr were taken these decisions
	 ‘What kind of dictator made these decisions?’
2.2  Čto za as a non-d-linked expression: felicity conditions
Crucial evidence that the Russian čto za-N′ forces a non-d-linked reading comes from
the interpretation of the relevant questions, which can be clarified by pairing these
questions with felicitous and infelicitous answers. Assuming a broad, inclusive notion
of pragmatics, one could definitely discern a particular pragmatic profile of NDL ques-
tions, and Russian NDLs seem to fit this profile.
	 Crucially, a question with čto za-N′ does not require an answer that draws on the ex-
isting or presupposed set of referents—in contrast to a question with a discourse-linked
	 Non-referential interrogatives 251
wh-word. For example, assuming that one is sent to a grocery store to buy dairy prod-
ucts, the answer in (8b) is definitely infelicitous—the speaker’s goal in uttering (8a) is
not to inquire what was bought but rather to show surprise or indignation at the quality
or brand of what the other person brought. A more appropriate answer to (8a) is (8c):
	 (8)	 a.	 čto za drjan′ ty kupil?
	 what for trash 2sg bought
	 ‘What in the world did you buy?’
b.	 #
maslo
	 butter
c.	 ja ne znal čto ty ne eš′ francuzskoe
	 1sg not knew that 2sg not eat French
	 ‘I didn’t know you don’t like French butter.’
In contrast, if a question involves an interrogative pronominal or a d-linked wh-word,
the felicity of possible answers is reversed. In the example below, (9c) is very odd in re-
sponse to (9a):
	 (9)	 a.	 čto (imenno) ty kupil?
	 what dl 2sg bought
	 ‘What/Which thing did you buy?’
b.	 maslo
	 butter
c.	 #
ja ne znal čto ty ne eš′ francuzskoe
	 1sg not knew that 2sg not eat French
	 ‘I didn’t know you don’t like French butter.’
Thus, čto za-N′ expressions do not evoke an answer and form constructions which,
though structurally similar to questions, are pragmatically closer to exclamatives (see
Zanuttini and Portner 2003 for a relevant discussion). They do not evoke a particular
answer and allow speakers to express their strong emotions associated with a particu-
lar eventuality.
2.3  Čto za and extraction phenomena
Let us now turn to the syntactic effects associated with čto za-N′ expressions. Syntac-
tically, it has been shown that NDLs in other languages cannot be extracted from weak
.  If the interrogative pronominal bears emphatic pitch accent (high rise) then the question
can be interpreted similar to (8a) without čto za. This shows that the negative or more gener-
ally emotional attitude towards some proposition can be expressed in a number of ways (lexical
cues, intonation, possibly both). As Nancy Hedberg (p.c.) suggests, it may be a general property
of questions that they may be used to express emotion rather than request for information. Ac-
cordingly, emotional attitude is a shaky foundation to build a definition of NDLs on.
252	 Maria Polinsky
islands (see Cinque 1996: 241–2 for Italian NDLs); in the meantime, other wh-expres-
sions can escape such islands (Kluender 1998 and many others). The examples below il-
lustrate the behavior of the Russian wh-words with respect to weak islands. In (10), the
interrogative pronominal and the d-linked wh-word can both extract out of a factive
island, but čto za-N′ expressions resist such extraction:
	 (10)	 a.	 kogo stranno čto my ne vstretili?
	 whom is strange that 1pl not met
	 ‘Whom is it strange that we did not meet?’
b.	 kogo imenno stranno čto my ne vstretili?
	 whom dl is strange that 1pl not met
	 ‘Which person is it strange that we did not meet?’
c.	 
*čto za pticu stranno čto my ne vstretili?
	 what for bird is strange that 1pl not met
	 (‘Who the hell is it strange that we did not meet?’)
In (11), the interrogative pronoun and the d-linked wh-word can extract out of the em-
bedded clause, but the extraction of čto za-N′ is decidedly ill-formed:
	 (12)	 a.	 ?
kakuju sobaku oni skazal čto proi xočet vzjat’?
	 what dog he said that wants to take
	 ‘What dog did he say he wanted to adopt?’
b.	 kakuju imenno sobaku oni skazal čto proi xočet vzjat’?
	 what dl dog he said that wants to take
	 ‘Which dog did he say he wanted to adopt?’
c.	 
*čto za sobaku oni skazal čto proi xočet vzjat’?
	 what for dog he said that wants to take
	
(‘What the hell kind of dog did he say he wants to adopt?’/‘What the hell
does he want to adopt?’)
Extraction out of adjunct islands shows a three–way contrast: the extraction of in-
terrogative pronominals shows speaker variation (some speakers find it well formed;
others, myself included, reject it), the extraction of d-linked wh-words is acceptable,
and the extraction of čto za-N′ is uniformly bad:
	 (12)	 a.	 %
čto on prixodil čtoby zabrat′?
	 what he came so that to take
	 ‘What did he come here to pick up?’
b.	 čto imenno on prixodil čtoby zabrat′?
	 what dl he came so that to take
	 ‘Which thing did he come here to pick up?’
.  Unlike its English counterpart, the example in (11c) has a tensed embedded clause, which ex-
plains the difference between the English and the Russian extraction effects.
	 Non-referential interrogatives 253
c.	 
*čto za erundu on prixodil čtoby zabrat′?
	 what for gibberish he came so that to take
	 (‘What the hell did he come here to pick up?’)
	 Next, wh-expressions differ with respect to superiority (although the actual mechan-
ism of superiority is not well understood). In particular, the use of d-linked expressions
alleviates superiority, and the appearance of NDLs enhances the violations:
	 (13)	 a.	 
*What did who buy?
b.	 What did which person buy?
c.	 
*What did who the hell buy?
d.	 
*What the hell did who the hell buy?
In Russian, superiority violations are observed only with čto za N—compare the Eng-
lish examples in (13) with similar Russian sentences (see also Pesetsky 1987: 117–19):
	 (14)	 a.	 čto kto kupil?
	 what who bought
	 ‘Who bought and what?’
b.	 čto kto imenno kupil?
	 what who dl bought
	 ‘What did which person buy?’
c.	 
*čto čto za durak kupil?
	 what what for fool bought
	 (‘What did who the hell buy?’)
d.	 
*čto za drjan′ kto kupil?
	 what for trash who bought
	 (‘What the hell did who buy?’)
To summarize, island constraints and superiority effects show that čto za-N expres-
sions systematically differ from the other two types of wh-expressions in Russian. The
distribution of the Russian čto za-N′ expressions parallels that of NDLs in other lan-
guages.
.  The ungrammaticality of (14c) has nothing to do with the doubling of čto ‘what’; in (14d)
as well as in (i) and (ii) below, there is no such doubling but the superiority violation is still
present:
	 (i)	 
*kogo čto za durak priglasil?
		 whom what for fool invited
		 (‘Whom did who the hell invite?’)
	 (ii)	 
*čto za durak kogo priglasil?
		 what for fool whom invited
		 (‘Whom did who the hell invite?’)
254	 Maria Polinsky
3.  Čto za-N′ as a property denotation
A larger question is what exactly it is that determines the observable properties of
NDLs. In this section, I will show that NDLs have only intensional reference and argue
that their semantics determines their pragmatic and syntactic properties presented in
the previous section.
3.1  Identification of a referent
Unlike the other two types of wh-expressions, čto za is infelicitous with nominals that
denote temporary properties or stages. This is manifested in several ways. First, if a
noun has a stage-level reading only, it is incompatible with čto za. For instance, in (15),
čto za combines with p′janyj ‘drunk’, which is a dedicated stage-level expression, denot-
ing only a temporary state. The result is ungrammatical:
	 (15)	 
*čto za p′janyj èto pridumal?
what for drunk this thought up
‘What drunken idiot came up with this?’
The de-adjectival noun p′janyj is contrasted with p′janica ‘drunk, alcoholic’ which has
a dedicated individual-level reading denoting a permanent property (see Bulygina
1982: 32–7 for an insightful discussion).
	 (16)	 čto za p′janica èto pridumal?
what for drunk this thought up
‘What drunken idiot came up with this?’
Second, if a noun is ambiguous between the denotation of a temporary or permanent
property, čto za-N′ forces it to have a permanent reading. This is apparent in the case of
such words as bol′noj ‘sick(ly) person (esp. mentally ill); patient’.With čto za this noun
has to be interpreted as expressing a permanent property (17c):
	 (17)	 a.	 kakoj bol′noj stanet èto pit′?
	 what sickly will this drink
	 ‘What patient will drink this?’
	 Less preferred: ‘What loony will drink this?’
b.	 kakoj imenno bol′noj stanet èto pit′?
	 what dl sickly will this drink
	 ‘Which patient will decide to drink this?’
	 Not: ‘Which loony will drink this?’
c.	 čto za bol′noj stanet èto pit′?
	 what for sickly will this drink
	 ‘What the hell kind of loony will drink this?’
	 Not: ‘What the hell kind of patient will drink this?’
	 Non-referential interrogatives 255
Similarly, compare the interpretation of the word prorok ‘prophet’ when occurring with
čto za and with the other types of wh-words. This word allows either for a unique iden-
tification (prophet Isaiah, etc.) or for an identification of a referent with a property of
foretelling the future.
	 (18)	 a.	 kakoj prorok predskazal takoe?
	 what prophet foretold such
	 ‘What prophet has foretold such a thing?’
b.	 kakoj imenno prorok predskazal takoe?
	 what dl prophet foretold such
	 ‘Which prophet has foretold such a thing?’
c.	 čto za prorok predskazal takoe?
	 what for prophet foretold such
	 ‘What kind of prophet has foretold such a thing?’
	 (Not: ‘What/Which prophet has foretold such a thing?’)
A felicitous answer to the question in (18c) is an adjective denoting a permanent prop-
erty (‘crazy’, ‘unruly’, ‘righteous’); thus, a prophet is understood here as the denotation
of a personal characteristic. Such answers however would be infelicitous in response to
(18a) or (18b)—these questions entail a reply providing a unique identification such as
a proper name or a definite description. Thus čto za again raises the type, which is typ-
ical of an intensional operator.
	 So far, we have seen that čto za-N′ receives the reading of permanent property (in-
dividual-level), but not temporary property (stage-level), which is compatible with its
function of intensional reference marker.
3.2  Čto za and relational nominals
The next piece of evidence for the special status of čto za comes from its co-occurrence
with relational nominals such as ‘contents’, ‘friend’, ‘opponent’, ‘parent’, etc. A relational
nominal has a free variable in its intension, and in order for it to receive specific refer-
ence, this variable has to be filled. Relational nominals thus receive the extension from
the co-occurrence with the dependent they subcategorize for. For example, the use of
‘contents’ in (19) is appropriate only if the hearer makes a pragmatic accommodation
for an entity whose contents are discussed. Such an accommodation enables the hearer
to assume the existence of an entity that serves as the reference point for accessing the
referent of the contents (Lewis 1979; Krongauz 1984: 120; Langacker 1993; Lambrecht
1994: 65–73).
	 (19)	 soderžanie nam ponravilos′
contents 1pl.dat liked
‘We liked the content.’
Čto za is the only type of wh-expression in Russian that freely occurs with relational
256	 Maria Polinsky
nominals without requiring a specific dependent as its reference point. Compare (20)
where the potential dependent is non-specific itself, thus unavailable as the source of
extensional reference:
	 (20)	 a.	 čto za soderžanie možet byt′ u vsjakoj galimat’i?
	 what for contents can be by any balderdash
	 ‘What the hell kind of contents can any nonsense have?’
b.	 ??kakoe soderžanie možet byt′ u vsjakoj galimat’i?
	 what contents can be by any balderdash
	 (‘What contents can any nonsense have?’)
c.	 
*kakoe imenno soderžanie možet byt′ u vsjakoj galimat’i?
	 what dl contents can be by any balderdash
	 (‘Which contents can any nonsense have?’)
3.3  Čto za and proper names
Turning to the next property that sets čto za apart from the other types of wh-words, it
is incompatible with proper names (unless they are used as common names). Proper
names freely occur with the wh-word kakoj (21b); the pragmatic accommodation that
the hearer needs to make there is that there are several existing individuals that bear the
same proper name.
	 (21)	 a.	 
*čto za Dunja prišla?
	 what for Dunja came
	 (‘What the hell kind of redneck came?’)
b.	 kakaja (imenno) Maša prišla?
	 which dl Masha came
	 ‘Which of the people called Masha came?’
	 In those cases where a proper name following čto za is acceptable, this proper name
must be understood as common; thus, in the highly ironic (22), the name ‘da Vinci’
cannot refer to the author of Mona Lisa but has to be understood as a generic denota-
tion of an artist.
	 (22)	 čto za da Vinči takoe namaleval?
what for da Vinci such daubed
‘What kind of daVinci would paint such an awful thing?’
	 Unless they occur in special contexts, proper names index individuals in the world
and cannot serve as property denotations—it is hard to imagine a unifying and con-
stant property for all the people named John or Tiffany. By hypothesis, čto za-N′ is a
property denotation, without specific referential content; if this hypothesis is on the
right track, then the constraint against co-occurrence with proper names trivially fol-
lows.
	 Non-referential interrogatives 257
3.4  Čto za and indefinite descriptions
Definite or possessive expressions, which require a referential reading (Gundel et al.
1993), cannot occur with čto za. This is illustrated in (23a) and (24a):
	 (23)	 a.	 
*čto za tvoix rodstvennikov my dolžny priglašat′?
	 what for 2sg.poss relatives 1pl must invite
	 (‘What the hell kind of your relatives do we have to invite?)
b.	 čto za rodstvennikov my dolžny priglasit′?
	 what for relatives 1pl must invite
	 ‘What the hell kind of relatives do we have to invite?’
	 (24)	 a.	 
*čto za èti duxi tebe nužny?
	 what for these perfume 2sg.dat needed
	 (‘What the hell kind of this perfume do you need?)
b.	 čto za duxi tebe nužny?
	 what for perfume 2sg.dat needed
	 ‘What the hell kind of perfume do you need?’
As (23b) and (24b) show, however, weakly quantified expressions can co-occur with
čto za. It also co-occurs with weakly quantified expressions headed by takoj ‘such’, al-
though here the judgments get somewhat degraded:
	 (25)	 a.	 ?
čto za takie duxi tebe nužny?
	 what for such perfume 2sg.dat needed
	 ‘What the hell kind of such perfume do you need?
b.	 ?
čto za takix gostej on nazval?
	 what for such guests he invited up
	 ‘What the hell kind of such guests did he invite?’
In the discourse following a čto za question, the presumed answer to this question can-
not license a personal pronoun, and instead has to license a demonstrative—in con-
trast to the unmarked wh-word which can license a pronoun in subsequent discourse.
Compare:
	 (26)	 čto za slon razbil našu vazu?
what for elephant broke our vase
my */?togo/*/?ego sejčas nakažem
we that.acc/him.acc now will punish
‘What kind of a clumsy person broke the vase? We’ll punish the one.’
	 (27)	 kto razbil našu vazu? my ego sejčas nakažem
who broke our vase we him.acc now will punish
‘Who broke the vase? We’ll punish him.’
258	 Maria Polinsky
The personal pronoun serves as a place holder for a specific referent, whereas the de-
monstrative is serving the function similar to that of the English one, where the refer-
ence is to a property, not a specific entity. Again, this characteristic of čto za-N′ follows
from its status as a property denotation.
	 To recapitulate, čto za-N′ expressions cannot have a stage-level reading, can include
relational nouns but cannot include proper names or strongly quantified NPs, and can-
not license pronominal anaphora. All these properties suggest that the expression can-
not be interpreted as referring to an entity in the extensional set, but rather must re-
ceive the intensional reading.
4.  NDLs and other quantified expressions
Further support for this conclusion comes from the comparison of čto za-N′ expres-
sions with the quantified NP vsjakij-N′ ‘any N′’. It has been shown independently that
vsjakij N is a property denoting expression (Bulygina 1982; Krongauz 1984). Table 2
shows the parallels between the two types of expressions. For comparison, I have also
included the universally quantified distributive každyj- N′ ‘each N′’ which is quite dif-
ferent from the other two types. The first three properties listed in the table define čto za-
N′ ‘what the hell’ and vsjakij-N′ ‘any N′’ very clearly. Co-occurrence restrictions based
on tense and aspect of the relevant predicates are far from clear (Padučeva 1974: Ch. III;
Bulygina 1982: 12–30; Krongauz 1984: 117–19; Filip 1995, 1999).With respect to čto za-
N′ the constraint seems to be against the perfective in the future tense, for example:
	 (28)	 a.	 čto za durak takoe skazal?
	 what for fool such said.perf
	 ‘Who on earth could have said this?’
b.	 
*čto za durak skažet takoe?
	 what for fool will say.perf such
	 (‘Who on earth will say this?’)
c.	 
*čto za durak budet govorit′ takoe?
	 what for fool will say.impf such
	 (‘Who on earth will be saying this?’)
Table 2  Russian non-specific expressions
čto za vsjakij každyj
Reference to individuals (not stages) + + −
Co-occurrence with proper names − − +
Co-occurrence with strongly quantified NPs − − +
Co-occurrence restrictions based on the tense and
aspect of the predicate
+? +? −?
Licensing of pronominal anaphora − + +
	 Non-referential interrogatives 259
I do not have an explanation for this constraint nor for the difference between NDLs
and the universally quantified polarity NPs in that respect, but I would like to point
out that to understand such contrasts we may need a more fine-grained classification
of verb types.Without such a classification of verb types, the answers in the respective
cells of Table 2 are bound to have question marks.
	 Despite slight differences, NDLs and universally quantified polarity NPs in Russian
show strong parallels, which is to be expected if both are non-referential expressions
serving as property denotations.
5.  By way of conclusion
This chapter examined a particular subclass of interrogatives in Russian, the so called
aggressively non-discourse-linked wh-expressions (NDLs) which correspond to such
English expressions as what on earth or what the hell. These expressions differ from the
other two types of interrogatives (discourse-linked wh-expressions, which resemble
definite noun phrases, and regular wh-expressions, which resemble pronominals) in a
systematic way. First, NDLs differ from other interrogative expressions in that they do
not really presuppose an answer that fills the variable with a particular object—­rather
they are used to express surprise or indignation at an eventuality. This is a feature com-
mon to NDLs across languages and it may well be the defining feature of their use. In
addition to the strong felicity conditions on the use of NDLs, these expressions also
obey a set of structural constraints. In particular, they cannot be extracted out of weak
islands; this also seems to be a recurrent feature of these expressions cross-linguistically.
	 The main result of this investigation into the nature of NDLs in Russian is that they
differ from interrogative pronominals and discourse-linked expressions both in refer-
entiality and activation. With respect to referentiality, I have argued that the Russian
NDLs only have intensional reference, encoding properties, not objects in the world.
Universally quantified expressions with ‘any’ are the closest parallel to the NDLs–-non-
referential expressions with intension only.
	 Assuming that NDLs are non-referential, they cannot serve to activate a referent in
discourse. Thus they differ from pronouns which index highly activated referents and
also from definite descriptions (including discourse-linked expressions) which give the
hearer instructions on how to conduct a reference search (cf. Dahl and Gundel 1982).
Since an NDL does not contain any instructions on searching for a referent (there sim-
ply isn’t one), it is easy to understand why answers to questions with NDL containing
the denotation of a specific referent are inappropriate.
	 Next, if there is no referent to hold in the working memory of the language processor,
there is no material that can be used as a filler in anticipation of the gap that is coming
up (Kluender 1998). It therefore follows that NDLs are bad candidates for extraction
out of syntactic islands—regardless of the specific syntactic theory one would use to ac-
count for filler-gap dependencies.
260	 Maria Polinsky
	 The result achieved here, namely that NDLs are non-referential, and share that prop-
erty with other non-referential expressions, such as polarity items, is quite close to the
conclusion arrived at by den Dikken and Giannakidou (2001, 2002) in their insightful
and detailed analysis of similar items in English, Greek, and some other languages. In a
way this chapter simply confirms their conclusions, on the basis of different empirical
data.Where we crucially differ is the implications of this referential status for the gram-
matical behavior of NDLs. For den Dikken and Giannakidou, the syntactic properties
of NDLs are independently determined in syntax and are tightly connected to the fun-
damental issues of movement. The approach offered here is different in that I treat the
syntactic behaviors of NDLs as derivative of their semantic status. A similar appraoch
would involve treating the semantic status of NDLs as primary and the extraction re-
strictions as only loosely connected to the semantics of NDLs; such an approach goes
back to the early work by Erteschik-Shir (1973, 1978) or Karttunen (1977).Whether or
not syntax “sees” the featural properties of NDLs is an open question, which may be
resolved by tools other than what we conventionally use, for example, by processing
measures known to distinguish the semantic and syntactic contribution of linguistic
expressions.
	 Before concluding, let me return to the issue that I briefly touched on in the begin-
ning of this chapter, namely, the relative invisibility of NDLs to studies of information
structure. This orphan status of NDLs in information-structural research is less ac-
cidental than it may originally seem. Categories of information structure are heavily
referential, because this is where most distinctions can be observed. For instance, the
Givenness Hierarchy (Gundel et al. 1993) makes fine-grained distinctions between def-
inite expressions with highly accessible referents and indefinite expressions whose ref-
erents are presumably lower in activation, but all these distinctions are drawn over the
terrain of referential (specific) expressions. NDLs and other property denotational ex-
pressions simply do not belong in the hierarchy. An obvious question then is how to in-
clude NDLs in the more general mapping of information structure. This chapter is just
a first step in the direction of including them, so I do not want to pretend to have the
answer, but at the risk of being speculative let me offer two considerations.
	 First, recall that NDLs do not form questions the way otherWh-expressions do, and
NDL questions are actually closer to exclamatives than to true questions. The infor-
mation structure of exclamatives is even less clear than the information structure of
declaratives or interrogatives, so more work needs to be done in this area to under-
stand the role of NDL questions. Second, researchers of information structure should
simply adopt the idea that semanticists have long taken for granted: Wh-expressions
form a complex and heterogenous group, with d-linked Wh-expressions resembling
noun phrases most closely (cf. Karttunen 1977). Just as reference involves a hierarchy
of intermediate steps so do Wh-words, from referential definite to referential indefin-
ite to non-referential, Wh-expressions (which resemble noun phrases) range from ones
that resemble referential and specific ones to those expressions that resemble pronouns
	 Non-referential interrogatives 261
and polarity items, devoid of their own referential content. This need to distinguish
various subtypes withinWh-words immediately tells us that not every Wh-expression
has to map onto focus, and that we may be looking at very different contributions of d-
linked wh-expressions, regular wh-words, and NDLs to information structure. A closer
look at the individual contribution of each subclass would allow us to make progress
both in our understanding of wh-expressions and in the decomposition of such elusive
notions as ‘topic’ and ‘focus’.
Abbreviations
acc = accusative, dat = dative, dl = d-linked, instr = instrumental, impf = imperfective, nom
= nominative, perf-perfective, poss = possessive (genitive). % in examples indicates that a sen-
tence is fully accepted by some speakers but not others.
References
Anagnostopoulou, Elena. 1993. “Discourse linking and subjects in Modern Greek.” In Linguis‑
tics in the Netherlands 1993, ed. By Frank Drijkoningen and Kees Hengeveld, 1–12. Amster-
dam: John Benjamins.
Baltin, Mark. 1996. “On the characterization and effects of D-linking: Comments on Cinque.” In
Current issues in comparative grammar, ed. By Robert Freidin, 249–56. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Brun, Dina. 2001. “Information structure and the status of NP in Russian.” Theoretical Linguis‑
tics 27: 109–35.
Bulygina, Tat′jana V. 1982. “K postroeniju tipologii predikatov v russkom jazyke.” In
Semantičeskie tipy predikatov, 7–85. Moscow: Nauka.
Carnap, Rudolf. 1967. Meaning and necessity. 2 ed. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Chung, Sandra. 1994. “Wh-agreement and “referentiality” in Chamorro.” Linguistic Inquiry 25:
1–44.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 1996. ““Long” Wh-Movement and referentiality.” In Current issues in com‑
parative grammar, ed. by Robert Freidin, 226–48. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Comorovski, Ileana. 1996. Interrogative phrases and the syntax–semantics interface. Dordrecht:
Kluwer.
Cornilescu, Alexandra. 2002. “On focusing and Wh-movement in Romanian.” Balkanistica
15: 103–27.
Dahl, Deborah A, and Gundel, Jeanette K. 1982. “Identifying referents for two kinds of pro-
nouns.” MinnesotaWorking Papers in Linguistics and Philosophy of Language 8: 10–29.
Dayal, Veneeta S. 1993.-4 “Scope as indirect Wh-dependency.” Natural Language Semantics
2: 137–70.
den Dikken, Marcel, and Giannakidou, Anastasia. 2001. “What the hell?” NELS 31: 163–82.
den Dikken, Marcel, and Giannakidou, Anastasia. 2002. “From hell to polarity.” Linguistic In‑
quiry 33: 31–61.
Erteschik-Shir, Nomi. 1977. On the nature of island constraints. Bloomington: Indiana Univer-
sity Linguistics Club.
262	 Maria Polinsky
Filip, Hana. 1995. “Boundedness in temporal and spatial domains.” In Cognitive linguistics in
the redwoods: The expansion of a new paradigm in linguistics, ed. by Eugene Casad, 655–92.
Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Filip, Hana. 1999. Aspect, eventuality types and noun phrase semantics. NewYork: Garland.
Frege, Gottlob. 1892. Über Sinn und Bedeutung. Zeitschrift für Philosophie und philosophische
Kritik 100: 25–50.
Gundel, Jeanette K. 1974. The role of topic and comment in linguistic theory. Ph.D. Dissertation,
University of Texas at Austin (published by Garland, 1989).
Gundel, Jeanette K. 1975. “Left dislocation and the role of topic-comment structure in linguistic
theory.” Ohio State University Working Papers in Linguistics 18: 72–131.
Gundel, Jeanette K. 1985. “‘Shared knowledge’and topicality.” Journal of Pragmatics 9: 83–107.
Gundel, Jeanette K, Hedberg, Nancy and Zacharski, Ron. 1993. “Cognitive status and the form
of referring expressions in discourse.” Language 69: 274–307.
Karttunen, Lauri. 1977. “Syntax and semantics of questions.” Linguistics and Philosophy 1: 3–
44.
Kluender, Robert. 1998. “On the distinction between strong and weak islands: A processing per-
spective.” In Syntax and semantics 29: The limits of syntax, ed. by Peter Culicover and Lou-
ise McNally, 241–80. San Diego: Academic Press.
Krongauz, Maxim A. 1984. “Tip referencii imennyx grupp s mestoimenijami vse, vsjakij i každyj.”
Semiotika i informatika 23: 107–23.
Lambrecht, Knud. 1994. Information structure and sentence form. Topic, focus, and the mental
representations of discourse referents. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Langacker, Ronald W. 1993. “Reference-point constructions.” Cognitive Linguistics 4: 1–38.
Lewis, John D. 1999. “On multipleWh-questions: Weak crossover, d-linking, and the third Wh-
phrase effect.” Proceedings of the 18th West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics (WC‑
CFL), 312–24.
McCawley, James D. 1993. Everything that linguists have always wanted to know about logic. 2 ed.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Montague, Richard. 1974. Formal philosophy. New Haven: Yale University Press.
Mulkern, Ann E. 1996. “The game of the name.” In Reference and referent accessibility, ed. by
Thorstein Fretheim and Jeanette K. Gundel, 235–50. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Obenauer, Hans-Georg. 1994. Aspects de la syntaxe A-barre. Thèse de doctorat d’état. Univer-
sité de ParisVIII.
Padučeva, ElenaV. 1974. Semantika sintaksisa. Moscow: Nauka.
Pesetsky, David. 1987. “Wh-in-situ: Movement and unselective binding.” In The representation of
(in)definiteness, ed. by Eric J. Reuland and Alice ter Meulen, 98–129. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Polinsky, Maria. 2001. Information structure and syntax: Topic, discourse-linking, and agree-
ment. Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Spoken and Written Texts. Austin: Texas Lin-
guistic Forum.
Prince, Ellen. 1998. “On the limits of syntax, with reference to left-dislocation and topicaliza-
tion.” In Syntax and semantics 29: The limits of syntax, ed. by Peter Culicover and Louise
McNally, 281–302. San Diego: Academic Press.
Tanaka, Shichiro. 1995. “In defense of the Agr(P) analysis of Who/Whom alternations.” Linguis‑
tic Analysis 25: 21–69.
Zanuttini, Raffaella, and Portner, Paul. 2003. “Exclamative clauses: At the syntax–semantics in-
terface.’” Language 79: 39–81.
part iii
Pragmatics and Social Variables
chapter 12
A grammar in every register?
The case of definite descriptions
Mira Ariel
Tel Aviv University
1.  Introduction: Different grammars for different registers?
Research in grammaticization has benefited tremendously from statistical data regard-
ing frequency of use. Most functionalists are in agreement that very often the frequent
discourse pattern of yesterday is the grammar of today (see Hopper and Thompson
1980, 1984; Traugott and König 1991), because “grammars code best what speakers
do most” (Du Bois 1985). Recent research has, in addition, emphasized the impor-
tance of less than perfectly general rules (e.g., Thompson 2001). Thus, many have no-
ticed that linguistic expressions have different frequency rates and different distribu-
tional patterns in different modalities, registers and genres.
Both claims rely heavily
on statistical counts of various expressions as they occur within specific discourse pro-
files. Thus, linguistic expressions are seen as associated with specific discourse profiles,
those conditions which prototypically obtain when the expression is used. Such pro-
files may make reference to pragmatic features of the concept involved (e.g., Agents
tend to be Given entities — Du Bois 1987), or they may make reference to contextual
circumstances (e.g., y’know tends to occur in informal conversations).
	 Genres seem to be prime candidates for the creation of discourse profiles for lin-
guistic forms. According to Miller (1984; see also Bazerman 1988; Swales 1990), gen-
res constitute recurrent patterns of language use, defined according to social acts/mo-
tives. These recurrent patterns are only natural, given that similar social occasions tend
to recur, with typical rhetorical problems, which trigger similar responses. Crucially, a
genre relates both to substance and to form. Following Biber (1988, 1995) and Biber et
al. (1999), I will call “any variety associated with particular situational contexts or pur-
poses” (Biber 1995: 1) a register, so as to generalize over all specifically situated speech
(genres included). I propose to examine the nature of the association between linguistic
forms and register.
.  For example, a third of the articles in nine issues of Journal of Pragmatics 33 (20/61) includ-
ed some specific speech event in the title, thus restricting the applicability of the analysis to a
specific discourse variety. For example, “The interactional organization of pharmacist consul-
tations in a hospital setting”; A putative structure (JoP 33: 12), “Meta discourse in slogans and
headlines” (JoP 33: 8).
266	 Mira Ariel
	 Formal differences between registers are not hard to find. For example, West (1980)
found that that-nominal clauses mostly occurred in the introduction and in the discus-
sion sections of research papers in biology. Heslot (1982) found that simple past tense
was extremely frequent in the methodology and the results sections of research papers.
Simple present tense, on the other hand is much more frequent in the introduction and
the discussion sections. Passive voice is quite prevalent in all sections except for the
methodology one. Chafe (1982) found (among many other things) that first-person
references are much more frequent in conversations than in written English (13.4 times
more so).
	 But is every form that occurs in some register but not others with a statistically signif-
icant frequency directly register-dependent? Biber et al. (1995) testify that systematic
patterns of use resulting from recurrent communication goals, interpersonal relations
between addressors and addressees, and other extralinguistic factors have traditionally
not been deemed relevant to the grammar. They too refrain from calling their statistic-
al work grammar. Rather, what the analysis they provide describes is “the actual use of
grammatical features in different varieties of English” (p. 4, emphasis added). Indeed,
not all patterns of use amount to grammar. I would like to argue that not every statistic-
ally significant difference is grammatically significant.
	 For example, asWest (1980) explains, that-nominal clauses are perfectly suitable for
the introduction and the discussion sections of an article, because they provide a sen-
tential construction for commenting (in the main clause) on statements (encoded in
the nominalization). In the introduction, statements are offered on previous claims in
the literature. In the discussion, conclusions are drawn from factual results. Given the
natural explanation for the high frequency of nominalized clauses in certain sections
of the research article, there is actually no need to postulate a direct conventional asso-
ciation between nominalized that- clauses and the specific article sections it tends to
occur in. Instead, we can assume that these constructions are used according to their
grammatical and discourse functional specifications throughout the research article.
It just so happens that for certain sections of the article, writers find them more useful,
and hence, tend to use them with greater frequency (see also the motivated frequent
use of nominalizations and passives discussed by Halmari and Östman (2001), and the
changes in the frequency of relative clauses, nominalizations, adverbial subordinate
clauses and abstract subjects in the last 100 years of research articles, as discussed by
Bazerman (1988)).
	 Most early studies of register differences (most notably those distinguishing spoken
and written English) have adopted precisely this approach. In other words, the frequent
linguistic forms are motivated by addressors’ goals, rather than being directly coded
for specific registers (e.g. Ochs 1979; Chafe 1982; Chafe and Danielewicz 1987; Biber
1986 and onwards — see also Cumming 1994). The reason for assuming only an indirect
link between registers and linguistic forms is quite obvious. As Biber et al. (1999) argue,
choices among alternative grammatical forms (e.g., between various referring expres-
	 Definite descriptions 267
sions) are pragmatically motivated. These pragmatic motivations are crucially depend-
ent on addressors’ goals in the various discourse varieties. It is then quite plausible that
the application of one and the same grammar would result in systematically different
choices in different registers if the different registers are used for different goals, and
are uttered under different circumstances. Thus, Chafe (1982) explains all the differ-
ences he found between spoken and written English by reference to a few general char-
acteristics of these two registers: Speaking is faster than writing, and affords a direct in-
teraction between the speaker and her addressee. The very large gap in self-references
between spoken and written English is explained by noting that in general, informal
conversations are characterized by a high degree of involvement. A similar explanation
is provided by Argamon et al. (2003) for the cross-genre (rather modest) differences
they found between female and male addressors. Men’s discourse is characterized by a
lower involvement style, which accounts for why, for example, they have more definite
descriptions than women, and for why women have more second-person pronouns.
1.1  Register-related patterns of referring expressions
Both Accessibility theory (Ariel 1985, 1990, 2001) and the Givenness Hierarchy (Gun-
del et al. 1993) have proposed a general (albeit different) account for the use of referring
expressions in general, and of definite descriptions specifically. Both theories hardly
address themselves to register differences, although differences between languages are
recognized, and there is nothing inherent blocking the assumption of such differences
within these theories (in fact, see Ariel 1990: 6.1 and section 4 below). Should these the-
ories be modified in order to accommodate the fact that statistically valid register dif-
ferences have been found with respect to definite descriptions? I would argue that this
is not necessary.
	 A good example of the type of analysis I advocate is Kirsner (1996). Kirsner’s find-
ings (Kirsner and van Heuven 1988) showed that the ratio of the Dutch proximate
demonstrative (deze) versus the distal demonstrative (die) was very different in dif-
ferent genres. For example, while the two forms were equally frequent in family mag-
azines, the proximate demonstrative was much more frequent than the distal one in
government publications. In general, there was hardly any difference in the frequen-
cy of die across genres, but deze was rare in novels but quite frequent in government
publications. These distributional patterns undoubtedly constitute different discourse
profiles for deze. However, rather than conclude that there are genre-specific use con-
ventions for the proximate demonstrative, Kirsner argued that the different frequency
ratios of the two demonstratives stem from the different discourse functions of deze
and die. The discourse function of the former (what he terms “high deixis”) is simply
more compatible with complex sentences and complex texts. And since some gen-
res (e.g., government publications) contain more complex messages than others (e.g.,
268	 Mira Ariel
novels and family magazines), the statistical skewing of the distribution of the two de-
monstrative forms is accounted for without having to attribute to the deze discourse
functions per se a ­specification about genres as well. Hence, while the discourse pro-
files of deze remain distinct in different genres, its discourse function remains con-
stant across genres. I propose we offer similar accounts for the register-specific pat-
terns below.
	 More recent findings which I interpret in support of this approach can be found
in Swanson (2003), who compares modes of coreference in academic journals, news
magazines and fiction narratives, all concerning the Middle East. Swanson carefully
analyzes the differences between the three genres (also noting quite a few individual
intra-genre variations), and relates these differences to the different goals of the gen-
res. For example, places are hardly ever coreferred to in the narratives, but are often re-
ferred to in the academic writing. As Swanson notes, the role of places is quite differ-
ent in the different genres. In the narratives, places are merely scene setters, so they are
transient referents, not often mentioned a second time. Not so for the journals, where
territories may constitute a major topic. Similarly, while humans figure prominently as
anaphoric entities in all three genres, in the narratives they constitute over 92% of the
anaphors. They take up over 43% of the anaphoric references in the magazines, and
just under 20% in the academic journals, where they also seem not to be individuat-
ed. Indeed, a quick look at the tabulated data shows an ascending use of personal pro-
nouns starting with the academic journals, where they are rather rare, and ending with
the narratives, where they are quite frequent. On the other hand, probably since con-
cepts are anaphorically referred to quite often in both the journals and the magazines
(14% and 13% respectively) (but not in the fiction), these two text types contain many
more elaborate anaphoric definite descriptions. Different goals, then, call for different
types of entities. These, in turn, call for different referring expressions.
	 Recently, however, other conclusions have been drawn from register-related distri-
butional patterns. Specifically with respect to referring expressions, some researchers
have argued for “different grammars for different genres”. Thus, Fox (1987: 152) con-
cludes that
there is no single rule for anaphora that can be specified for all of English . . . instead,
we have a variety of specific patterns which obviously share a number of general char-
acteristics, but which nevertheless differ enough to require separate formulations [em-
phases added].
In fact, Fox also proposes that there are different conventions for different written gen-
res (e.g., narrative versus informative texts, p. 143). Lord and Dahlgren (1997: 339)
seem to agree with her:
the choice of anaphor is a function of segmentation. Since different genres may have
different discourse structures and segmentation options . . ., this finding means that
choice of anaphor form is a function of genre [emphasis added].
	 Definite descriptions 269
And about the distinction between proximal and distal demonstrative distribution,
they say (p. 346) that “These patterns . . . have become part of the tacit knowledge of
the genre, shared by the writer and reader . . .” [emphasis added]. In other words, these
authors are not content to note that speakers’ goals mediate between the register and
the distributional patterns. They see a direct link between the linguistic patterns and
specific registers.
	 The goal of this article is to examine cases presented in the literature, all pertaining
to the use of definite descriptions, all demonstrating statistically significant register dif-
ferences. I will argue, however, that significant statistical findings do not necessarily
reflect significant grammatical generalizations. More controversially, I will tentative-
ly propose that the discourse patterns revealed tend not to grammaticize. The claim is,
then, that whereas some statistical findings reflect potential grammar in the making,
for others, grammar is quite irrelevant. Some significant statistical differences are to be
attributed directly to speakers’ goals in various contexts, rather than to their “specif-
ic-register grammar”. Thus, even though speakers employ the very same grammatical
rule across different registers, the discourse profiles of the linguistic expression come
out differently in different registers, because different goals/functions are better served
by different means. The different discourse patterns are then accounted for by factors
external to the linguistic forms at hand, and there is no need to assume different gram-
matical generalizations for different discourse varieties.
	 In section 3, I will present various findings attesting to register-related differences in
the distribution of definite descriptions. However, rather than conclude that there are
register-specific use conventions for definite descriptions, I will propose that different
registers prototypically call for different types of discourse entities.While the discourse
function of definite descriptions remains constant across all registers (indicating a low
degree of accessibility for the mental representation of the entity referred to), its imple-
mentation naturally varies according to the discourse entities involved. In other words,
the same grammatical rule, used to encode different entities, will only naturally yield
different surface realizations. To give just one example, assuming that definite descrip-
tions code various degrees of low accessibility, it is only to be expected that definite de-
scriptions should be more frequent in registers which call for the use of many low ac-
cessibility discourse referents.
	 But before we turn our attention to real statistical differences in the use of definite de-
scriptions, we should distinguish between real register findings, as will be discussed in
section 3, and ones which are only apparent, as will be discussed in section 2. The data
discussed below is taken from various published sources (Fox 1987; Ariel 1990, 1996;
Biber et al. 1999; Wolf and Walters 2001a,b), as well as from a slightly edited narrative
examined especially for this chapter (Morris 1994: 129–39), containing 204 referential
definite descriptions. Unless otherwise indicated, all the cited examples in this chapter
are drawn from Morris (1994), and each example is identified by the page number fol-
lowed by the number I assigned it.
270	 Mira Ariel
2.  Language-dependent differences, or what’s discourse anaphoric?
The appropriateness condition on the use of definite descriptions is that the entities
they refer to are identifiable. Linguists had to then characterize those sources which
can provide a basis for this identifiability. It has long been established that our gen-
eral knowledge, the speech situation and a previous discoursal mention may all en-
able identification of entities, and thus allow for the use of definite descriptions (see
the discussion in Ariel 1988, 1998). It would then seem reasonable to characterize the
prototypical discourse profile of definite descriptions by reference to these contexts
(see Clark and Marshall 1981, for example). In fact, the three-way distinction among
contexts has often been reduced to a two-way distinction: First-mention (based on
general or situational knowledge) versus discourse anaphoric (based on prior men-
tion). Indeed, some version of this distinction seems relevant for at least some lan-
guages, which seem to distinguish between anaphoric and general knowledge definite
articles. According to ­Lyons (1999), some languages only have anaphoric definiteness
articles, while others have distinct forms for anaphoric and general knowledge uses.
The anaphoric (including the situational) usage and the general knowledge usage are
potentially grammatically distinct, then.
No wonder many linguists have attempted to
characterize the discourse function of definite descriptions by reference to a first-men-
tion/discourse anaphoric distinction. I have argued, however, that the distinction is not
all that easy to make, nor all that important in explaining the use and interpretation of
referring expressions.
	 There is no agreement among researchers about what the prototypical discourse pro-
file of definite descriptions is re first-mention vs. discourse anaphoric. Are definite de-
scriptions mainly anaphoric (referring to a previously mentioned entity) or are they
mainly first-mention referring expressions? The philosophers, who initiated the discus-
sion of definite descriptions, devoted their analyses to isolated first-mentions (e.g., The
king of France). Computational linguists (e.g., Sidner 1979) and semanticists, such as
Heim (1982), consider the anaphoric (subsequent mention) use as the basic use of defin-
ite NPs. I have found that on the average, about a third of the definite descriptions in my
Hebrew written data were first-mentions, and two thirds were discourse anaphoric (see
Ariel 1990: 35), but Fraurud (1992) is virtually dedicated to proving the opposite, that
overwhelmingly, definite descriptions introduce new entities into the discourse. Maes
and Noordman’s (1995) results are closer to Fraurud’s, but are still different: Nearly a
quarter of the definite NPs in their written Dutch data are classified as anaphoric. Gun-
del et al. (2001) find that 44% of the definite descriptions in their data are first mention.
	 So what is the prototypical discourse profile of definite descriptions regarding first
versus subsequent mention? Do definite descriptions in different languages simply
have different prototypical discourse profiles? It would seem so. Since we all used writ-
.  But note that situational references are grammatically classified with anaphoric, rather than
with first-mention uses.
	 Definite descriptions 271
ten materials as sources, the different discourse profiles could not stem from register
differences. However, I do not believe that the differences in the data presented in Ariel
(1990), Fraurud (1992), Maes and Noordman (1995) and Gundel et al. (2001) necessar-
ily stem from differences between the languages examined (Hebrew, Swedish, Dutch
and English). The bulk of the differences stem from our different conceptions of what
should be considered as discourse anaphoric.
Fraurud takes a form to be anaphoric
only if it is a case of referential dependency, where the addressee’s interpretation must
absolutely rely on another expression, necessarily an NP antecedent. Furthermore, that
antecedent must form an explicit reference to the very same discourse entity. That is
certainly a legitimate semantic approach, and I estimate that in my data too, fewer in-
stances of definite descriptions would count as discourse anaphoric under Fraurud’s
restricted definition.
	 However, I believe that in order to account for the specific referring expression se-
lected by the speaker, as well as for the processing involved in the interpretation by the
addressee, a weaker notion of discourse anaphora is more fruitful. First, note that an
interpretative dependence can be shown even if the material relied upon (as anteced-
ent) is not an explicit mention of a referent. This occurs in (1a), where comments at the
bottom in green ink do not constitute an NP, and do not refer to one discourse entity
at that stage (see also Garnham et al. 1992 on conceptual anaphors and McKoon et al.
1993 on nonreferential antecedents), and in (1b) where a few propositions (rather than
discourse entities) mentioned in the previous paragraph form the antecedent for the
same thing:
	 (1)	 a.	
… someone had written comments at the bottom in green ink. One
had a naked woman with an older man, and the inked-in comments re-
ferred  … (131: 65).
b.	
… she told me that … she implied … Then she advised me … And then
she said …
	
[New Paragraph] The dean pretty much told me the same thing 	
(133: 105).
Moreover, while we may independently access (i.e., as new) discourse entities such as
the university, the state defamation suit and the dean, all referred to multiple times in
Morris (1994), the narrative actually requires us to accumulate information regarding
the same dean, suit and university. Thus, we need to connect the current reference with
previous mentions of that entity, and that entity specifically (in the narrative examined,
a few universities and suits are mentioned, and we need to track the “right” one each
time). In other words, anaphoric definite descriptions need not have explicitly men-
tioned NP antecedents on the one hand, and on the other hand, they may be referential-
ly dependent even if they are potentially accessible from our general knowledge store
(see also Swanson 2003).
.  Maes and Noordman do not provide their working definition of an anaphoric usage.
272	 Mira Ariel
	 Note that the second mention of ‘the comments’ above is shorter, omitting the lo-
cation of the comments (at the bottom) and the color of the ink (green). Indeed, even
when a referring expression is not dependent in Fraurud’s absolute way on an earlier
linguistic antecedent for its referential interpretation, the degree of accessibility of the
mental representation it retrieves tends to be higher, just because the entity/ies has/ve
been previously mentioned in the discourse. Textual counts, as well as production ex-
periments, have shown that speakers take these previous mentions into account when
they choose the forms of words and referring expressions (see Fowler and Housum
1987; Gurman-Bard 1995). Thus, even if a definite description is used again (rather than
a pronoun), it often shows sensitivity to the fact that it is a second mention. (2b), which
occurs in the sentence following that of (2a), is another example of shortening:
	 (2)	 a.	 Lurid headlines … appeared in the newspapers every day … (137: 254).
b.	 The papers didn’t begin covering the story … (137: 257).
The shorter form invariably follows, rather than precedes the longer form, since the first
mention renders the entity a relatively high degree of accessibility.
So, even though
one could potentially access the papers from one’s general knowledge, the form selected
for it shows that the speaker views it as a second mention. Note that this variation in the
degree of informativity and expression length (shorter forms for higher accessibility) is
applicable to all referring expressions, as (3) shows for a name ((3b) occurs later in the
same paragraph as (3a):
	 (3)	 a.	
They sent me to the academicVice-president, a man named Leffler …
(134: 127).
b.	
… the first thing she did was send a letter toVice-president Leffler …
(134).
Note that the referring expression in (3b), although fully lexical and potentially inde-
pendently referential, is typically shorter and less informative. In Ariel (1990, 1998),
I argued that form variability is manifest even in first-person references, which sure-
ly do not depend on a previous linguistic mention (of the speaker) for their interpret-
ation. Thus, in Hebrew, the speaker refers to herself with a full (even stressed) pronoun
when deemed relatively less accessible in the discourse, but with a cliticized pronoun
(or even zero) when highly accessible in the discourse. Her presence and accessibility
in the speech situation remains constant, and cannot then be so crucial in and of itself
in determining referential form. Hence, while I agree with Fraurud (1992) that not all
previous mentions necessarily serve as the semantic sources for deriving the interpret-
ation of the definite description (and definite NPs in general), I maintain that the form
and distribution of all referring expressions often take into account previous mentions,
because they are dependent on degree of accessibility, which is affected (among other
things) by previous mentions. I am arguing, then, that referring expressions are not
.  Interestingly, I found an identical set of examples in conversational English — see (Ariel 2001).
	 Definite descriptions 273
chosen only by reference to their content which is supposed to ensure the addressee’s
ability to pick out the right referent (Fraurud’s implicit assumption). Rather, the speak-
er has to signal in addition the degree of accessibility of the mental representation re-
trieved. Potential interpretative independence (Fraurud’s definition for first-mentions)
does not automatically entail being first-mention. It may merely involve a very low de-
gree of accessibility. My claim has been that potentially independent as well as depend-
ent retrievals are performed by the addressee based on the referring expression chosen
by the speaker according to the degree of accessibility it codes. And definite descrip-
tions code a relatively low degree of accessibility, whether anaphoric or first-mention.
The classification does not seem to be significant for the use of definite descriptions.
	 Notice, in addition, that we cannot really generalize over the whole category of def-
inite descriptions. Short and long (less vs. more informative) definite descriptions have
radically different discourse profiles in fact. Consider the first-subsequent mention dis-
tribution for short (1–2 content words) vs. Long (3+content words) definite descrip-
tions:
Table 1.  First vs. subsequent mention definite description (Table 1.4 in Ariel 1990: 44)
Definte description type First-mention Discourse-anaphoric
Long definite description 96 (65.3%)   51 (34.7%)
Short definite description 84 (21.8%) 302 (78.2%)
While two thirds of the long definite descriptions are first-mentions, as predicted by
Fraurud, an even larger majority of the short definite descriptions (78%) are discourse
anaphoric. Under Accessibility theory, short definite descriptions indicate a higher de-
gree of accessibility, and hence are on the whole more appropriate for subsequent men-
tions.
	 Another difference between my definition of discourse anaphoric and Fraurud’s
concerns inferred entities (newly introduced entities readily inferable on the basis of a
previous mention of an entity closely associated with the inferred entity). While Frau-
rud takes inferables as new entities, I took them as discourse anaphoric. They are in-
deed an in-between type of entity. The following is a typical example, where the judge
refers to an entity stereotypically associated with the federal court:
	 (4)	 The first case was tried in federal court in … Their witnesses said awful
things to convince the judge …  (136: 206).
Inferred entities are somewhat of a hybrid (see also Prince 1992; Lyons 1999: 4). They
crucially rely on a previous discourse representation (the anchor), and in this sense
they are not first-mentions. But the specific entity itself has not previously been men-
tioned in the discourse, and should count as new, therefore. Lyons (1999: 52) notes that
in Hausa, the anaphoric definite article (distinguished from the first-mention definite
article) is used not only for previously mentioned entities, but also for referents related
274	 Mira Ariel
to previously mentioned entities (inferred entities). Inferred entities are then classified
with anaphoric entities, rather than with new discourse entities. In fact, in many cases
it is very hard to decide whether or not discourse anaphora is actually involved (and I
suspect that this is true even for Fraurud’s stricter notion of anaphora). The reason for
my decision to count inferred entities as discourse anaphoric and not as first-mentions
is based on their linguistic coding: A “true” first-mention of a specific judge would have
demanded a more informative referring expression (i.e., one marking a lower degree
of accessibility than the short the judge). As it is, the introduction of the court makes
the referent ‘the judge’ easily inferable and accessible. O’Brien and Albrecht (1991) find
that highly context-appropriate first-mentions are rather easily accessed, and in Ariel
(1996) I found that frame-induced entities were only referred to by one content word
definite descriptions (normally reserved for entities not entertained at a very low de-
gree of accessibility). Entities retrieved purely from general knowledge, on the other
hand, required more informative referring expressions for the most part (see also Gun-
del et al. 1993 for different forms for different inferred entities).
	 So we can now understand how the different definitions for being discourse ana-
phoric led different researchers to find different first/subsequent mention ratios for
the definite descriptions in their data. I therefore suggest that the different counts pre-
sented in Ariel (1990), Fraurud (1992), Maes and Noordman (1995) and Gundel et al.
(2001) are not actually important, because they do not necessarily constitute differ-
ent discourse profiles for definite descriptions. In fact, as I have argued at length (Ariel
1994, 1996), the first vs. subsequent mention is not the determining factor here. Rather,
it is the degree of accessibility with which the entity is entertained by the addressee, as
judged by the speaker. Being discourse-anaphoric contributes towards a higher degree
of accessibility of some mental representation, but neither it or its absence constitute
necessary or sufficient conditions for the use of practically all referring expressions.
3.  A grammar in every register?
Section 3 examines cases where different registers do have different discourse profiles
for definite descriptions. I analyze the distribution of first versus subsequent retrievals
in 3.1, the relative frequency of definite descriptions versus pronouns in 3.2, and the
different referential distances for anaphoric definite descriptions in different registers
in 3.3.While all these comparisons show different register profiles for definite descrip-
tions, I will argue that the same discourse function can account for the apparent vari-
ability in the use of definite descriptions in different registers.
3.1  First versus subsequent mentions
I have argued above that the different ratios for first versus subsequent mentions for
definite descriptions in Fraurud (1992) and in Ariel (1990) stem from our different cri-
	 Definite descriptions 275
teria for what counts as discourse-anaphoric. However, other conflicting findings are
not similarly reconcilable (e.g., Gundel et al. 2001: Table 2, where the Canadian Par-
liament transcripts contain three times as many first-mention entities as the spoken
TRAINS corpus). Note first the data presented in Ariel (1990), based on four different
sources of written materials. All were collected under the same (loose) definition of dis-
course anaphora. Table 2 is adapted from Table 1.1 in Ariel (1990: 35).
	 Assuming that my looser definition of discourse-anaphoric has some validity, are we
really justified in claiming that about two thirds of definite descriptions are discourse
anaphoric and a third are first-mentions (the total numbers)? I think not. Should we
then say that the ratio of first versus subsequent mention definite descriptions is sub-
genre dependent (editorials, news items, etc., are all sub-genres of the written genre)?
After all, proportionately, there are 2.35 more first-mentions in the editorials than in
the fiction, so that whereas the first/subsequent mention ratio for the editorials is al-
most equal (1.3 more subsequent mentions), there are almost 4.4 times more subse-
quent than first-mentions in the fiction. The answer is once again negative, I propose.
Statistically significant differences are not necessarily grammatically significant.
	 In the narrative examined for this chapter I found an even lower rate of first-mention
definite descriptions: 19 (9.3%).
Moreover, in Ariel (1985) I compared between two
types of news items: Items containing brand new information (e.g., on a robbery) and
items containing news concerning an ongoing topic in the news of the time (The Leba-
non war). It then turned out that the “sub-genre” of news items split into two sub-sub-
genres re the first-subsequent mention ratios. The brand-new news items patterned
with fiction, whereas the news currently on the agenda patterned with the editorials.
These are no doubt distinct discourse profiles for definite descriptions in different text
types. But I maintain that the numbers of first versus subsequent mention definite de-
scriptions are unimportant in accounting for their discourse function (except as a basis
for a rough comparison with other referring expressions, e.g., pronouns). The distinct
discourse profiles above can all be seen to be consistent with an assumption that defin-
ite descriptions carry one discourse function: coding a variety of low degrees of mental
.  The reader should be advised that not every potential second mention was counted as such.
Thus, the university’s hallways, as well as the men’s rooms, were mentioned a few times in differ-
ent sections of this narrative, but since I doubt the addressees actually accumulate the informa-
tion mentioned in their connection, I counted each as a new (inferred) mention.
Table 2.  First-mention versus discourse anaphoric definite descriptions in four text types
Text type First-mention Discourse anaphoric
Newspaper editorials   56 (43.75%)   72 (56.25%)
Semi-academic   51 (39.2%)   79 (60.8%)
News items   49 (33.6%)   97 (66.4%)
Fiction   24 (18.6%) 105 (81.4%)
Total 180 (33.8%) 353 (66.2%)
276	 Mira Ariel
accessibility for the entities retrieved. The differences should be attributed to the differ-
ent contextual assumptions prototypical of the different genres.
	 I claim that at the basis of the different discourse profiles of definite descriptions
above is a difference between the genres as to the common ground appropriately as-
sumed as shared by the writer and the readers.Where the speaker and addressee share
more common ground, more entities can be introduced initially as Given (using def-
inite descriptions, for example). Where the speaker and addressee share less common
ground, fewer entities can initially be presupposed to be Given. Probably the only simi-
larity between fiction and brand-new news items (both have a low count for first-men-
tion definite descriptions) is that the writer is not in a position to assume a large set of
commonly presupposed entities with her addressee. She must therefore introduce most
first-mentions as unfamiliar entities. Definite NPs are less suitable for this function.
Editorials, on the other hand, mostly comment on topics already on the public agen-
da, and similarly, in repeated news items on the same topic (The Lebanon war), famil-
iar entities play a prominent role. Such entities can then be taken as Given even in their
initial introduction into the discourse, and definite NPs are appropriate. Thus, whereas
different registers may very well prototypically involve discourse entities of different
types (e.g., many initially shared entities in editorials, few initially shared entities in fic-
tion), leading to different prototypical profiles for definite descriptions, this does not
justify the conclusion that the use of definite descriptions is different in the different
registers.
	 The same generalization is responsible for the use of definite descriptions in all the
genres and sub-genres above, whether they are mostly first-mentions or mostly subse-
quent mentions: A relative low degree of mental accessibility of the mental representa-
tion retrieved, created by a variety of low accessibility factors.Whether this low degree
of accessibility is due to the lack of previous mention of the entity in the current dis-
course (first-mentions) or to the occurrence of a great distance or paragraph or episode
boundary between the previous and current mention (subsequent mentions — see 3.3
below) is immaterial. My point is then that statistically significant different counts for
different registers do not automatically entail different referential or anaphoric styles
for the same forms. While examining definite descriptions in the registers above with
respect to first/subsequent mentions may point to different prototypical discourse pro-
files for definite descriptions in different registers, namely, predominantly anaphoric
uses in fiction and brand-new news items, but almost equally anaphoric as first-men-
tion for editorials and recurrent news items, I am claiming that the discourse function
of definite descriptions remains constant in all these registers.
	 It has long been a crucial claim of Accessibility theory that the first-mention–ana-
phoric distinction, or discourse profile is not the relevant distinction for the coding
of Given entities (see especially Ariel 1988, 1994, 1996).What matters is the discourse
function(s) of the referring expressions (defined in relative degrees of accessibility). It
is the degree of accessibility with which the representation is currently maintained that
determines the referring expression selected to evoke it. Anaphoricity is not equivalent
	 Definite descriptions 277
to high accessibility, even though anaphoric references prototypically require a rela-
tively high degree of accessibility, and are therefore often performed by pronouns. And
first-mention of Given entities does not automatically entail a very low degree of acces-
sibility, although of course, many first-mention definite descriptions do code discourse
entities which are currently entertained with only a low degree of accessibility.
	 Findings in Sanford and Garrod (1981) illustrate this point rather well. In one exper-
iment, subjects read sentences which contained a definite description (e.g., the lawyer).
This definite description presented either a new or a second mention entity, and it oc-
curred in a context in which the entity is easily or not easily inferable (in texts entitled
“In court” versus “Telling a lie” respectively). Now, if the anaphoric versus subsequent
mention is the crucial distinction, we would expect reading times to be distinct for
these two conditions. They are indeed different in the nonpredictive context (“Telling
a lie”). However, reading times for first versus subsequent mention are not significantly
different in the predictive context (“In court”). Crucially, subjects took longer reading
the sentence with the anaphoric reference in the nonpredictive context than the first-
mention in the predictive context. In other words, predictable first-mention entities
are more accessible than second-mention unpredictable entities. Along the same lines,
Yekovich and Walker (1986) found that false positive responses to probes not present-
ed in the experimental materials depended on how script-based the concepts were. In
other words, having been mentioned does not automatically guarantee a high degree
of accessibility, and being a first-mention does not automatically entail a very low de-
gree of accessibility. High inferability means a relatively high degree of accessibility des-
pite the newness. All in all, a previous mention is just one factor contributing towards a
higher degree of accessibility. It does not exhaust it.
	 In addition, had the anaphoric-first-mention distinction been a crucial linguistic
distinction, one would expect that different referring expressions would specialize for
one or the other use. This is not the case for the most part (see Ariel 1988 and onwards).
Definite descriptions and names can be and are discourse subsequent-mention some-
times, and even pronouns can be used to initially retrieve a discourse entity. This is
why whereas one can certainly characterize the prototypical discourse profiles of defin-
ite descriptions in terms of first-mention versus discourse anaphoric, a better account
for their use is provided by their discourse function– marking relatively low degrees of
mental accessibility. Whether discourse anaphoric or first-mention, definite descrip-
tions (of various kinds) retrieve mental entities entertained at (a variety of) low degrees
of accessibility (for distinctions among different definite descriptions see Ariel 1990,
1996, Table 1 above, and below).
	 Consider anaphoric references first. If one looks at anaphoric interpretations as re-
trievals of entities which vary in the degree of their accessibility to the addressee, one
would expect different referring expressions to specialize for different cases of anapho-
ra, specifically, for contexts of low versus high degrees of accessibility. Indeed, whereas
81.3% of the anaphoric pronouns in the data quoted in Ariel (1990): 18 referred to ante-
cedents mentioned in the same or the previous sentence, 83.1% of the anaphoric defin-
278	 Mira Ariel
ite descriptions referred to antecedents mentioned at least two sentences away, or even
across the paragraph. Taking the anaphoric/first-mention criterion as distinguishing
between referring expressions cannot distinguish between definite descriptions and
pronouns, since obviously both are used (also) anaphorically. This, however, does not
mean that they are interchangeable. Accessibility theory can distinguish between them,
because the two expressions differ in the degree of accessibility they code.
	 Next, consider first-mentions of Given NPs. Again, if the anaphoric-first-mention
distinction were the crucial one, then the results presented in Ariel (1996) would seem
accidental. In Ariel (1996) I argued that first-mentions do not constitute a single cat-
egory: they too are entities entertained at different degrees of accessibility. The forms
used to introduce them vary, and again, it is degree of accessibility which determines
their selection. Thus, definite descriptions containing one content word (relatively high
accessibility) retrieved first-mentions which were relatively more accessible (84.6%):
These were either “permanent generics”, such as the public, or frame induced, i.e., easily
inferable from the specific context (e.g., ‘guests’ at a party). On the other hand, definite
NPs which contained relative clauses averaged 6.8 content words (very low accessibil-
ity markers), and retrieved first-mentions which were not so easily accessible to the ad-
dressee (82.3%): Entities which required inferencing based on general knowledge not
directly represented in the discourse itself, or entities normally stored differently in the
addressee’s memory (for details see Ariel 1996).
	 Thus, I believe that for the form and function(s) of definite descriptions, it is de-
gree of mental accessibility which is the crucial factor, and not the first-mention/dis-
course anaphoric distinction, nor the discourse profile. Both first-mentions and dis-
course anaphoric entities manifest a variety of degrees of mental accessibility. From a
discourse function point of view, it is therefore not at all important to decide whether
the prototypical discourse profile for definite descriptions is as Fraurud (1992) claims
it to be (first-mention), or as my data has shown it to be (discourse anaphoric). It is the
discourse function they code which determines their proper use, both when they are
first-mentions and when they are discourse anaphoric. This, I have argued, is a relative-
ly low degree of accessibility.
3.2  Register differences for definite descriptions vs. pronouns
In section 3.2 we look at register differences regarding the use of definite descriptions
and pronouns.We examine both the question of frequency and of referential distance.
Fox (1987) found a difference in the frequency of definite descriptions and pronouns
between conversations and written texts. Whereas the number of pronouns and lexic-
al NPs is almost equal in the written texts (53% pronouns, 47% lexical NPs), there are
about 3.5 pronouns per one lexical NP in the spoken data (78% pronouns, 22% lexic-
al NPs). In addition, whereas the referential distance between a previous and a current
mention of a pronoun antecedent is 2.5 clauses in her spoken data, it is only 1.2 clauses
	 Definite descriptions 279
in the written data. Fox then assumes that there are different patterns of anaphora for
different genres.
	 Toole (1996) convincingly argued against Fox’s (1987) conclusions. While she too
found different discourse profiles for referring expressions in the same genres exam-
ined by Fox (Toole’s data is Australian English, however), she nonetheless concluded
that the same (Accessibility) discourse functions characterize the use of both pronouns
and definite lexical NPs in all the genres examined. By taking degree of accessibility as
a complex concept, she was able to prove that full NPs retrieve entities of a low degree
of accessibility, and pronouns retrieve mental representations entertained at a high de-
gree of accessibility, regardless of the discourse profiles they participate in. Rather than
distance alone (Fox’s measure), Toole combined a few measurements of degree of ac-
cessibility, distance being one of them, but also competition and the number of previ-
ous mentions. The result was that while the statistical frequency of different referring
expressions in different genres was indeed different, the same accessibility discourse
function could account for all the findings: the correlation between degree of accessi-
bility and choice of referring expression was significant across all genres at the .01 ­level.
	 Toole also examined each case which seemed to pose an exception to the assump-
tion of an accessibility discourse function (i.e., full NPs in high accessibility contexts,
pronouns in low accessibility contexts). For example, Fox (1987) found a large number
of definite descriptions retrieving discourse entities previously mentioned in the pre-
vious clause (a high accessibility context in terms of distance): 38% and 11% of the def-
inite descriptions in the written and conversational data respectively. Toole examined
all such cases in her own data. She found that she could explain the majority of these
cases within Accessibility theory (many of them were clarifications, for example) in
that what seemed to be a high accessibility context turned out to be a low accessibility
context after all. The same applies to cases where pronouns were used when the con-
text seemed to imply a low degree of accessibility. In other words, what Toole’s research
demonstrates is that when the discourse function of some form is properly defined (in
this case, degree of accessibility carefully evaluated), significantly different discourse
profiles can be shown to follow from the very same discourse functions.
	 Mostintriguingisacomparisonof Fox’sresultswiththefindingsinBiberetal.(1999).
While they agree about the predominance of pronouns in conversations (80% of the
anaphoric expressions are personal pronouns in their data), Biber et al. al’s counts of
personal pronouns in newspapers and academic writings (similar texts to Fox’s choice
of written English) show quite a different ratio for pronouns vs. lexical NP anaphors.
Their corpus shows fewer pronouns (30% on average, as compared with Fox’s 53%). In
addition, whereas Fox finds that the referential distance for pronouns is twice as large
in conversations than in her written materials, Biber et al. find the opposite. The refer-
ential distance for pronouns is larger in their written materials than in their conversa-
tions (by 33.3%). Note, however, that whereas Fox counted clauses, Biber et al. counted
number of words. They find that the average distance in terms of words is 15 for conver-
sations and 20 for all their written sources. Comparing Biber et al.’s counts for definite
280	 Mira Ariel
descriptions, the average referential distance for conversations is 32.5 words, and 36.25
(11.5% more) in the comparable written materials. These differences are not nearly as
impressive as the differences noted by Fox (not to mention the fact that one of them
goes in the opposite direction). I propose that the different results for spoken vs. writ-
ten registers are mainly due to the well known difference in length between spoken and
written clauses. Written clauses are significantly longer (see e.g. Chafe 1982), and this
may be why in terms of clauses, the referential distance for written English pronouns
seems so much shorter to Fox. Apparently, written and spoken clauses don’t constitute
comparable accessibility factors because of the differences in length and complexity.
	 However, it is not at all my goal to doubt the generalizability of Fox’s data. In fact,
she and Biber et al. did not really even count precisely the same forms: I’m not clear on
whether Biber et al. counted anaphoric names, for example. Fox only looked at third-
person human references. My point is that different registers may very well have differ-
ent goals and therefore different entities to introduce, and hence significantly different
ratios of referring expressions. Unlike Fox, however, I maintain that the principle gov-
erning their use remains constant. To see this, compare Tables 3 and 4, adapted from
Biber et al. Note how different the proportions of pronouns and lexical anaphors are
across the different registers (Table 3), but at the same time how rather similar the ref-
erential distance is per referring expression across the very same registers (Table 4).
	 Note that pronouns vary between being rather marginal in academic writings (20%)
to being predominant in conversations (80%, a 4: 1 ratio). Repeated (identical) defin-
ite descriptions vary between 5% for conversation and 40% for academic writings (a
ratio of 8: 1), and synonymous definite descriptions have an approximate 10: 1 ratio (I
estimate) in newspapers vs. conversations. These are no doubt highly impressive differ-
ences. Now, contrast these large differences in Table 3 with the much more mild differ-
ences in Table 4.
Table 3.  The percentage of various expressions out of all anaphoric expressions (L.T.2.5% (Less
than 2.5%)
Ref. exp. Conversation Fiction News Academic writing
Pronoun 80% 75% 40% 20%
Def, repeated 5% 10% 35% 40%
Def, synonym L.T.2.5%   5% 20% 10%
Adapted from Biber et al.’s Table 4.2,p.237
Table 4.  The referential distance for various referring expressions (in number of words)
Ref. exp. Conversation Fiction News Academic writing
Pronoun 15 20 20 20
Def, repeated 30 45 40 40
Def, synonym 35 35 30 35
Adapted from Biber et al.’s Table 4.3,p.239
	 Definite descriptions 281
	 In Table 4 the difference between the referential distances of pronouns in different
discourse varieties is quite smaller (33.3% more for the written genres), repeated def-
inite descriptions have a maximal 50% difference (between conversation and fiction),
and synonymous definite descriptions have a rather marginal difference between the
newspapers and the three other genres (16.7%). Thus, in terms of types of preferred re-
ferring expressions, there is great variability between the different sources (the gaps in
Table 3 vary between 300% and 900%), but in terms of referential distance, the differ-
ences vary between 16.7% and 50%. These findings attest that different registers have
clear preferences for certain types of entities: conversations prototypically involve high-
accessibility entities, whereas academic writings tend to involve low-accessibility en-
tities. But the conditions under which pronouns and definite descriptions are used are
quite similar, despite the very large gap in their frequency. The referential distance re-
mains quite constant across genres per referring expression.
	 Definites are not only contrasted with pronouns. They can also be compared to in-
definites. These ratios are also genre-sensitive. Assayag (1999) finds that first-person
narratives and expository texts (both spoken monologues) differ in their definite versus
indefinite subject NP ratios. The former introduce (proportionately) many more defin-
ite than indefinite NPs (61 vs. 25, 2.4 times more), whereas the latter introduce more in-
definite than definite NP subjects (76 vs. 48, 1.6 times more). This is a clear register dif-
ference, which is dictated by the differential nature of the entities referred to in the two
registers. In the narratives, speakers talked about the actions of the protagonists, one of
these being the speaker herself. These entities are concrete, very often human, and there
are only a few of them. They can easily become even highly accessible, therefore. In con-
trast, the expository text contained complex entities, very often abstract and generic
concepts, and there were many of them. Hence, there were more first-mentions in the
expository texts. For example, the concept of violence, which repeatedly appeared in
the texts (it was the topic the subjects were asked to discuss), remained indefinite even
when it was not a first-mention. Given the difference in the entities referred to, it is not
surprising to find that the referring expressions employed differ in the two registers.
	 Finally, note that statistically significant genre differences may result from the (in-
tended) violation of Accessibility Theory/The Givenness Hierarchy predictions in one
but not in another genre, thus creating a genre distinction. Nesher (2002) examined the
first 50 references to first-mention human characters in stream of consciousness novels
(SOC, henceforth) and in detective novels in English and Hebrew novels by male and
female authors. The expectation is that first-mention entities will be introduced either
by indefinites (because the entities are inaccessible) or by low accessibility markers (be-
cause the entities are inferable based on general knowledge), but not so much by high
accessibility markers (demonstrative and personal pronouns). The detective novels ful-
fill these predictions: 39% of the entities (78) are introduced by some indefinite NP,
.  And I maintain that most of the differences present in Table 4 will evaporate once degree of
accessibility is calculated by reference to a multiplicity of accessibility factors.
282	 Mira Ariel
55% (110) are introduced by names and definite descriptions (low accessibility mark-
ers), and only 4.5% (9) are introduced by high accessibility markers. The SOC novels,
however, show the same rate only for low accessibility marking 56% (112). It has fewer
indefinites (29%, 58), but more high accessibility markers (15%, 30). Incidentally, the
rate of definite descriptions is quite similar in these two very different genres: 25% in
the detective novels and 29.5% in the stream of consciousness novels.
	 Now, rather than conclude that detective stories and SOC novels have different con-
ventions for using pronouns and indefinite NPs, Nesher concludes that the discourse
function of all referring expressions remains constant across the two genres. In SOC
novels, however, there is another factor involved, which is in conflict with Accessibil-
ity theory. The author in such novels is supposed to directly reflect one’s consciousness
(Prince 1987). In other words, the writer of such novels pretends to be a less coopera-
tive addressor, taking the addressee’s state of mind less into consideration. Given these
goals of the genre, it is not surprising that SOC novels show fewer indefinites (the en-
tities introduced are not accessible to the addressee, but they are, of course, accessible
to the writer) and more pronouns (the entities introduced are not highly accessible to
the addressee, but they are so to the writer). In other words, SOC novels show a system-
atic violation of Accessibility Theory (as well as the Givenness Hierarchy) for special
pragmatic effects. Indeed, both theories leave room for such violations. But the main
point is that once again, we do not need to directly connect between referring expres-
sions and genre. There are no special conventions for the use of referring expressions in
SOC novels. The conventions are the same, but they are violated at higher rates due to
the special goals of the genre.
	 Indeed, other findings point to the same “uncooperative” direction for SOC novels.
Nesher found that the detective novels introduced 3.6 new characters per page on aver-
age, whereas SOCs introduced 4.8 new characters (30.7% more). She also examined the
syntactic position used to introduce the new character. As is well known, subject pos-
ition tends to be reserved for continuing discourse topics. Indeed, whereas 22.5% of the
new entities were introduced in subject position in the detective novels 35% of the en-
tities were introduced in subject position in the SOCs (55% more). Finally, a majority
of the “uncooperative” high accessibility markers (62.5%) in the detective novels were
anchored, i.e., they were inferable based on a previously mentioned salient entity. This
was only true for 10.7% of the counterpart cases in the SOCs (5.8 times less). SOC nov-
els then consistently violate Accessibility Theory in order to create an impression that it
is the writer’s and not the addressee’s consciousness that lies behind referential choice.
	 For another register-related consistent violation of Accessibility theory for a special
effect see Kronrod and Engel (2001), who found that newspaper headlines use too high
accessibility markers (intermediate, rather than low accessibility ones) when first intro-
ducing entities, in order to both save on space and arouse readers’ curiosity.
	 Finally, Kumpf (2003) finds a consistent register-dependent counterexample to the
expectation that Given entities be nonlexical (her claims are couched within Chafe’s
(1994) theory). More than a third of the Given entities in her data were coded by lex-
	 Definite descriptions 283
ical NPs (185/545, 33.9%). This is a surprisingly high rate, and Kumpf proposes that it
is the register she is examining which is responsible for this exceptional rate. Kumpf’s
data comes from high school science classroom discourse. Indeed, the great majority of
these lexical NPs refer to science terms. Kumpf reasons that teachers tend to repeat the
science terms they introduce “to make sure that the full referent is available to all stu-
dents”, (p. 121). Repeated lexical NPs help teachers maintain the attention of their stu-
dents, a primary goal for a teacher facing some 30 high schoolers.
	 Given the same set of form-function correlations (be they Accessibility Theory or
Givenness Hierarchy ones), the linguistic forms actually selected by addressors may
well be consistently different across registers if the functions to be coded (the type of
discourse entities) are consistently different. In each case we have seen that it is the dif-
ference in the nature of the entities referred to, or else, the special goals of addressors
which are responsible for the selection of different forms. And while the nature of the
entities is directly dictated by the type of register, there is no direct, conventional asso-
ciation between the specific register and the forms frequently figuring in it. In each reg-
ister, it is the same Accessibility Theory/Givenness Hierarchy principles which mediate
between the register expectations (re entities) and the resulting linguistic expressions
(types of referring expressions). Thus, the different frequencies with which definite de-
scriptions are used in different registers can directly be accounted for by their conven-
tional discourse function, and no appeal need be made to the register they occur in.
3.3  Register differences re referential distance of definite descriptions
We have seen above that the referential distance of definite descriptions is consistently
larger than that of pronouns. This is only to be expected if definite descriptions are low
accessibility markers and pronouns are high accessibility markers. Recall further that
the referential distance for definite descriptions was not too variable in different reg-
isters in Biber et al.’s data (see again Table 4). As a last example of potentially different
discourse profiles for definite descriptions in different registers, consider the findings
in Table 5 regarding the distance between the last and the current mention of the dis-
course entity for anaphoric definite descriptions. The first three sources were quoted
in Ariel (1990: 42), the fourth presents the results for Morris (1994), which we here fo-
cused on. Concentrating on magazine article I and the short story, one could argue for
a register difference between newspaper articles and short stories. Thus, whereas same
Table 5.  The Distance of discourse anaphoric definite descriptions from their antecedents
Source Same paragraph Previous paragraphs
Magazine article I   36 (50%) 36 (50%)
Magazine article II   35 (90%)   5 (10%)
Short story   27 (64.3%) 15 (35.7%)
Edited narrative 100 (53.8%) 86 (46.2%)
284	 Mira Ariel
paragraph antecedents are equally frequent as previous paragraph antecedents for the
magazine article, there are almost two same-paragraph antecedents per one previous-
paragraph antecedent in the short story. However, once we also consider magazine art-
icle II and the narrative, the register generalization evaporates: The edited spoken nar-
rative resembles magazine article I (rather than the short story), but the latter does not
resemble magazine article II, where same-paragraph antecedents are the overwhelm-
ing majority.
	 While the discourse profiles represented in Table 5 are quite different from each
other, just like for first vs. subsequent mention, distance alone does not determine ref-
erential form. Rather, it is degree of accessibility as a complex notion. In order to see
this let us examine more carefully the data in Morris (1994). Such an examination re-
veals that the differences re distance from the antecedent are not by themselves the key
to understanding the proper conditions placed on the use of definite descriptions. It is
the cases of same-paragraph antecedents (100 cases) which seem puzzling under an as-
sumption that definite descriptions code a low degree of accessibility, because of the ap-
parently short distance from the antecedent. These cases break down to at least three
types, only one of which is a potential problem for the assumption that definite descrip-
tions mark a low degree of accessibility.We examine them all.
	 First, 29 (29%) of the definite descriptions which have a paragraph-internal anteced-
ent refer to that antecedent in a different form than it was initially introduced (a),
or
else the coreference established is only partial (b), where the department refers to more
than its faculty members. As such, their antecedents cannot really be said to be enter-
tained at a high degree of accessibility, of course, despite the relatively short distance:
	 (5)	 a.	
At this time, something had just appeared in the Chronicle of Higher
Education about … So I called several faculty women mentioned in the
article … (134: 148).
b.	
Several faculty members wrote the dean … the fact that he was disrupt-
ing the department (133: 97).
	 Second, 44 (44%) of the paragraph-internal definite descriptions actually constitute
partially new discourse entities, since they are inferred based on a discourse entity pre-
viously mentioned (in the same paragraph in this case). As argued above, these cases
are hybrids, and cannot be counted as cases constituting a very high degree of accessi-
bility for the referent. Here is a typical example (and so is the judge in (4) above):
	 (6)	 They came to Greenwood, Mississippi, and opened a grocery store in the
black section of town (129: 9).
	 Last, 27 definite descriptions (27%) retrieve entities previously mentioned in the
same paragraph in roughly the same form as they were previously mentioned. These
.  See Lord and Dahlgren (1997: 337) for a similar finding. And see the different referential dis-
tances for repeated vs. synonymous definite descriptions in Biber et al.’s data quoted in Table 4.
	 Definite descriptions 285
should be examined individually, for they constitute a potential counterexample to the
claim that all definite descriptions in all registers retrieve mental representations of a
rather low degree of accessibility. First, it is noteworthy that all of them were quite short
(and therefore do not constitute very low accessibility markers): 23 (85.2%) contained
one content word, and four (14.8%) contained two content words. Second, while they
all retrieve entities previously mentioned in the same paragraph, for many of them (12,
44.4%) the antecedent appears at least four clauses away (the average distance being
seven clauses back). Others are used for clarification, due to competing antecedents or
because of a combination of accessibility factors (e.g., distance + competition). One is
an intended violation for the generation of a Gricean implicature. All in all, three ex-
amples seem not to be subsumed under the standard Accessibility explanations. One
of them is (2) above, where we still see that the second mention was shortened. Note
also that the second mention occurs in a sentence which steps back in time to provide a
background for the first-mention sentence (a lower cohesion between the sentences re-
duces the accessibility of the antecedent — see Ariel 1990: ch. 7, and references therein).
Finally, two of these three cases (including 2) refer to very transient discourse entities,
and this is their second and last mention. Their antecedents, although close by, do not
constitute salient (i.e., highly accessible) discourse entities, as is also attested by their
non-subject role. The third case is quoted below:
	 (7)	 Privately, we were told that the universityi didn’t want to pay … so theyi were
trying … Theyi said …, because however small the chances of theiri win-
ning, there was that chance and I could lose everything. So the universityi …
(138: 306).
Note that the last reference to the university switches to a definite description after a
chain of pronominal references to it. I believe speakers switch to a low accessibility
marker from time to time to reassure their addressees that they have the right referent
in mind.
	 Thus, once we calculate degree of accessibility based on a number of factors, rather
than on the basis of distance alone, certainly when distance is measured in terms of par-
agraphs, we see that virtually all definite descriptions refer to discourse entities enter-
tained at (varying) degrees of low accessibility. This relatively low degree of accessibility
can be due to the nature of the anaphor, the intended referent, or the relation between
them. If the anaphor is not a repeated NP, or if the intended referent is not identical in
reference to the antecedent (partial coreference, inferred reference), the degree of ac-
cessibility is lowered. Finally, even within a paragraph, the referential distance may be
large, creating a relatively low degree of accessibility, especially if there are other inter-
.  Also, according to Gernsbacher and Shroyer (1989), reference by a low accessibility marker
boosts the accessibility of the entity for future references. So some low accessibility markers are
chosen because of their cataphoric contribution rather than the anaphoric history of the dis-
course entity involved.
286	 Mira Ariel
vening referents. Section 3 has argued that definite descriptions manifest a variety of
discourse profiles, if discourse profile is characterized either by reference to first versus
subsequent mention (even if we adopt a single, loose definition for discourse anaphora,
3.1), by frequency (relative to pronouns, 3.2), or by reference to the referential distance
(for anaphoric definite descriptions, 3.3). If, however, we analyze definite descriptions
as low accessibility markers, the different discourse profiles do not translate to register-
dependent use conditions. Rather, the different discourse profiles all result from the
application of one and the same discourse function, which happens to produce differ-
ent discourse profiles under different circumstances. These differences are only appar-
ent. First versus subsequent mention and short versus long referential distance demon-
strate that accessibility is simply not reducible to single criteria, and register differences
only show that the amount of presupposed entities the speaker and addressee share
initially consistently varies from one register to another. These different circumstances
do affect discourse profiles, but they do not necessitate our positing different discourse
functions for definite descriptions in different registers.
Surface register differences in
the use of referring expressions can therefore be compatible with the assumption of a
single discourse function, because the register differences are only indirectly correlat-
ed with referential style.
4.  Conventional register differences for referring expressions
Biber (1995): 10 notes that associations between linguistic expressions and situations
may be either functionally motivated, or they may be conventional. I have argued that
the cases we have reviewed so far have all been cases where the statistically significant
differences among registers are functional, and do not entail register-specific conven-
tions for referring expressions. This does not mean that all such differences are regis-
ter-insensitive.
	 Comparing between the findings for possessive NPs in the same narrative (Morris
1994 — see Ariel 2002) and definite descriptions (section 3), I see a potentially different
role for the prototypical discourse profile I presented for each. Possessive NPs across
languages do show the relevance of their prototypical discourse profiles in their gram-
maticization patterns. To the best of my knowledge, definite descriptions (and other
referring expressions) do not tend to grammaticize in a fashion compatible with their
prototypical discourse profiles, as these have been described in the literature above.
Referring expressions do not specialize for first versus subsequent mentions, nor for
.  Note that although Lord and Dahlgren (1997) argue for genre differences for referential form
and usage, they actually provide explanations similar to mine for the apparent different referen-
tial styles, noting the different characteristics of various genres (e.g., the fact that unlike newspa-
per articles, conversations do not very often have one global discourse topic).
	 Definite descriptions 287
shorter versus longer referential distances per se. Although some languages have defin-
ite articles which are apparently restricted to anaphora versus general knowledge, the
“anaphoric” articles can refer to situational and to inferred entities (both first-mention
according to Fraurud 1992), and the “general knowledge” articles can refer anaphori-
cally as well (Lyons 1999).10
Section 4, however, briefly surveys a few cases where I be-
lieve there to be conventional associations between referring expressions and registers.
It is beyond the scope of this article to examine the fascinating question of which dis-
course profiles are prone to lead to grammaticization and which are not. It would seem
to me that register-related distributional patterns are less prone to grammaticization
than cross-register discourse profiles, but this question must await further research.
	 In Ariel (1983), I have discussed the discourse function of one specific apposition in
Hebrew (mi she . . . ‘who that . . .’), when adjacent to a proper name, as in:
	 (8)	 doctor henri kisinger, mi she+ haya sar ha+xuc shel
Dr Henry Kissinger, who that was the minister of foreign affairs of
arcot ha+brit, hibia etmol et daato . . .
the United States, expressed yesterday acc his opinion
(Yediot Ahronot, 11.2.1978)
‘Dr Henry Kissinger, former US secretary of state, expressed his opinion yes-
terday . . .’
I argued that this construction is reserved for first-mention V. I.Ps. Moreover, the con-
struction is restricted to journalistic Hebrew. We here have an example of a referring
expression which is restricted (a) to first-mention, and (b) to a specific register.
	 Clancy (1982), analyzing referential forms in spoken and written Japanese narratives,
also finds a few differences which seem conventional, rather than pragmatically mo-
tivated (although, some differences she does explain as deriving from the different cir-
cumstances obtaining in speaking versus writing). For example, put into Accessibility
Theory terminology, second mention entities don’t yet merit reference by high acces-
sibility markers (zeros or pronouns) in both registers. However, whereas written Jap-
anese tended to repeat the informative low accessibility marker used for the first men-
tion, spoken Japanese preferred a shorter, less informative lexical NP (e.g., sono hito
‘that person’ in second mention, as opposed to the lengthier otoko no hito ‘male person’).
Another distinction noted by Clancy is that third-person pronouns were never used in
the spoken narrative. The reason is that in conversation (and only in conversation) per-
sonal pronouns “imply a personal relationship between the speaker and the referent”
(p. 64).
	 Another type of case where a linguistic form may be register-specific is due to the
gradual nature of linguistic change. Most linguistic changes occur in spoken discourse,
and hence, innovations may occur with a higher, even absolute frequency in informal
10.  Longacre (1979) is the only one who has argued that some languages have pronouns which
are restricted to paragraph scope.
288	 Mira Ariel
talk. Biber et al. mention the semi-modal verbs (e.g., have got to) which are more com-
mon in conversations in this connection. I have noted that spoken Hebrew first/sec-
ond person future verbs only marginally permit zero subjects (0% in one conversation,
11.3% in another—see Ariel (1990, 2000) for statistics). This is not the case for written
Hebrew, where the majority of such cases did have a zero subject (76.5%). As I argued
in Ariel (1990, 2000), future tense verbal agreement markers are being reanalyzed as
nonreferential, hence the need for an overt (subject) referring expression. This reanaly-
sis is primarily felt in the spoken register. In this case, then, we can say that written Heb-
rew has a high accessibility referring expression which spoken Hebrew no longer has,
namely, the person verbal agreement in future tense.
	 There are, then, cases where a referring expression is restricted to a specific register
in a conventional manner. These are cases where the differential distribution cannot
be explained on the basis of the extralinguistic, communicative goals of the addressors
in the specific register. Note that we cannot say that Hebrew conversationalists nev-
er introduce a V.I.P. into their discourse. They most certainly do. When they do, how-
ever, they simply lack the conventional means to indicate the V. I.Pness of the charac-
ter conventionally. They make do with other means available for first mention entities,
namely, very informative low accessibility markers. Similarly, it’s not the case that con-
versationalists cannot repeat full NPs, nor that they only have a personal relation to ref-
erents in written Japanese. Finally, it is not the case that speakers and addressees (the
referents of first- and secnd-person verbal forms) are consistently less accessible or less
frequent in spoken Hebrew than in written Hebrew. If anything, we would expect the
opposite, namely that the speaker and addressee should be even more accessible in face-
to-face conversations. The difference between spoken and written Hebrew (re the per-
son agreement markers in future tense) must, then, be grammatically specified in this
case. First- and second-person verbal agreement markers are a (very high accessibil-
ity) referring expression in written Hebrew, but are nonreferential agreement markers
in spoken Hebrew. The register differences briefly discussed in section 4 all necessitate
specific conventions which are register-dependent. This is not the case for the variety of
differences noted in sections 1–3.
5.  Conclusions
Register differences are real and pervasive. I would argue, however, that for the most
part, such differences mainly concern addressors’ goals, and only indirectly manifest
themselves formally. We therefore need not assume separate grammars for separate
registers (in the majority of the cases). We have here found confirmation for Swales’
1990 argument that genre cannot be reduced to statistical counting of formulas. Gen-
res define communicative events, each with its recurrent communicative purposes. It
is the goals and rationale of the discourse which informs the choice of content and
style. Naturally, these have implications for the selection and use of linguistic expres-
	 Definite descriptions 289
sions because the latter are associated with certain discourse functions, but it does not
usually justify the assumption of conventional associations between linguistic expres-
sions and specific registers. The specific register distributional patterns fall out natu-
rally from one and the same grammar because grammar is built to serve many pur-
poses. If we assume a grammatical mechanism whereby linguistic forms are selected
by reference to the function intended by the speaker, then the same set of conventions
will yield the differential distributional patterns, since we can trust the addressor to let
her communicative goals guide her linguistic choices among the alternatives offered
by the ­grammar.
	 In a more philosophical tone, one can say that languages simply cannot afford to
have a grammar in every register. It is therefore the cases where we do find form-regis-
ter conventional associations which are in need of explanation. In fact, one may wonder
what is to be considered a discourse profile. Surely had we characterized the discourse
profile of definite descriptions by reference to degree of accessibility, I have argued that
we would have come up with a much more homogenous pattern for all the registers
(provided we controlled for accessibility differences among different definite descrip-
tions). Clearly, we have to follow the actual language user here. It seems that some dis-
course profiles carry psychological reality (those discussed in section 4), while others
(those discussed in sections 1–3) do not. Future research should address itself to the in-
triguing question of which discourse profiles may acquire a distinct salient status, such
that might justify a distinct grammatical convention, and which discourse profiles may
not trigger register-distinct grammars.
References
Argamon, Shlomo, Koppel, Moshe, Fine, Jonathan and Shimoni, Anat Rachel. 2003. “Gender,
genre, and writing style in formal written texts”. Text 23(3): 321–46.
Ariel, Mira. 1985. Givenness Marking. Ph.D. thesis, Tel-Aviv University.
Ariel, Mira. 1988. “Referring and accessibility”. Journal of Linguistics 24(5): 65–87.
Ariel, Mira. 1990. Accessing Noun Phrase antecedents. London: Routledge.
Ariel, Mira. 1994. “Interpreting anaphoric expressions: A cognitive versus a pragmatic approach”.
Journal of Linguistics 30(1): 3–42.
Ariel, Mira. 1996. “Referring expressions and the ±coreference distinction”. In Reference and
Referent Accessibility, T. Fretheim, and J. Gundel (eds). 13–35.
Ariel, Mira. 1998. “The linguistic status of the ‘here and now’”. Cognitive Linguistics 9(3): 189–
237.
Ariel, Mira. 2000. “The development of person agreement markers: From pronouns to higher
accessibility markers”. In Usage-based Models of Language, Michael Barlow, and Suzanne
Kemmer (eds.). 197–260.
Ariel, Mira. 2001. “Accessibility theory: An overview”. In Text Representation: Linguistic and Psy‑
cholinguistic Aspects, Ted Sanders, Joost Schilperoord and Wilbert Spooren (eds.). Amster-
dam: John Benjamins. 29–87.
290	 Mira Ariel
Ariel, Mira. 2002. “The Possessive NP Construction: Discourse Function and Discourse Profile”.
BLS 28: 15–26.
Assayag, Nurit. 1999. “Subject Selection in Discourse: Cognitive Constraints and Genre Effects”.
MA thesis submitted to Tel Aviv University.
Bazerman, Charles. 1988. Shaping Written Knowledge. Madison: The University of Wisconsin
Press.
Biber, Douglas. 1986. “Spoken and Written Textual Dimensions in English: Resolving the Con-
tradictory Findings”. Language 62(2): 384–414.
Biber, Douglas. 1988. Variation Across Speech and Writing. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Biber, Douglas. 1995. Dimensions of Register Variation. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Biber, Douglas, Johansson, Stig, Leech, Geoffrey, Conrad, Susan and Finegan, Edward. 1999.
Longman Grammar of Spoken and Written English. Essex: Longman.
Chafe, Wallace. 1982. “Integration and Involvement in Speaking, Writing, and Oral Literature”.
In Spoken and Written Language: Exploring Orality and Literacy, Tannen, Deborah (ed.).
Norwood, NJ: Ablex. 35–54.
Chafe, Wallace. 1994. Discourse, Consciousness, and Time. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Chafe, Wallace and Danielewicz, Jane E. 1987. “Proprties of Spoken and Written Language.
Comprehending Oral and Written Language”. In Comprehending Oral and Written Lan‑
guage, Rosalind Horowitz and S. J Samuels (eds.). NewYork: Academic Press. 83–113.
Clancy, Patricia M. 1982. “Written and Spoken Style in Japanese Narratives”. In Spoken and
Written Language: Exploring Orality and Literacy, Tannen, Deborah (ed.). Norwood, NJ:
Ablex. 55–76.
Clark Herbert H and Marshall, Catherine. 1981. “Definite Reference and Mutual Knowledge”.
In Elements of Discourse Understanding, Arvind K Joshi, Bonnie L Webber and Ivan A Sag
(eds.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. 10–63.
Cumming, Susanna. 1994. “Functional Categories in the Lexicon: Referent Introduction in In-
donesian Novels”. In Text 14: 4 Special Issue: Discourse and Grammar, Sandra A Thompson
and Paul J Hopper (eds.). 465–94.
Du Bois, John W. 1985. “Competing Motivations”. In Iconicity in Syntax, John Haiman (ed).
Amsterdam: John Benjamins. 343–65.
Du Bois, JohnW. 1987. “The Discourse Basis of Ergativity”. Language 63(4): 805–55.
Du Bois, John W, Kumpf, Lorraine E, and Ashby, William J (eds.). 2003. Preferred Argument
Structure: Grammar as Architecture for Function. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Fowler, Carol A. and Housum, Jonathan. 1987. “Talkers’ Signaling of “New” and “Old” words in
speech and listeners’ perception and use of the distinction”. Journal of Memory and Lan‑
guage (26), 489–504.
Fox, Barbara A. 1987. Discourse Structure and Anaphora: Written and Conversational English.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Fraurud, Kari. 1992. Processing Noun Phrases in Natural Discourse. Ph.D. dissertation, Stock-
holm University, Stockholm.
Fretheim, Thorstein and Gundel, Jeanette K (eds.). 1996. Reference and Referent Accessibility.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Garnham, Allan, Oakhill, Jane and Cruttenden, Hannah. 1992. “The Role of Implicit Causal-
ity and Gender Cue in the Interpretation of Pronouns”. Language and Cognitive Processes
7(3/4): 231–55.
	 Definite descriptions 291
Gernsbacher, Morton Ann and Shroyer, Suzanne. 1989. “The Cataphoric Use of Indefinite this
in Spoken Narratives”. Memory and Cognition 17(5): 536–40.
Gundel, Jeanette K, Hedberg, Nancy, and Zacharski, Ron. 1993. “Cognitive Status and the Form
of Referring Expressions in Discourse”. Language 69(2): 274–307.
Gundel, Jeanette K, Hedberg, Nancy, and Zacharski, Ron. 2001. “Definite Descriptions and
Cognitive Status in English: Why Accommodation Is Unnecessary”. English Language and
Linguistics 5(2): 273–95.
Gurman-Bard, Ellen. 1995. “The Control of Intelligibility in Dialogue: The Messy, the Sticky,
and the Oyster-catcher’s Egg”. Presented at Haifa university, April 4. 1995.
Halmari, Helena and Östman, Jan-Ola. 2001. “The Soft-spoken, Angelic Pickax Killer: The Notion
of Discourse Pattern in Controversial News Reporting”. Journal of Pragmatics 33: 805–23.
Heim, Irene R. 1982. The Semantics of Definite and Indefinite NPs. Ph.D. dissertation, University
of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Heslot. 1982. “Tense and Other Indexical Markers in the Typology of Scientific Texts in Eng-
lish”. In Pragmatics and LSP, Jorgen Hoedt (ed.). Copenhagen: Copenhagen School of eco-
nomics. 83–103.
Hopper, Paul J and Thompson, Sandra A. 1980. “Transitivity in Grammar and Discourse”. Lan‑
guage 56:(4): 251–99.
Kirsner, Robert S. 1996. “The Human Factor and the Insufficiency of Invariant Meanings”. In
Toward a Calculus of Meaning, Edna Andrews and Yishai Tobin (eds.). Amsterdam: John
Benjamins. 83–106.
Kirsner, Robert S and van Heuven, Vincent J. 1988. “The Significance of Demonstrative Position
in Modern Dutch”. Lingua 76: 209–48.
Kronrod, Ann and Engel, Orit. 2001. “Accessibility Theory and Referring Expressions in News-
paper Headlines”. Journal of Pragmatics 33: 683–99.
Kumpf, Lorraine E 2003. Genre and Preferred Argument Structure: Sources of argument struc-
ture in classroom discourse. In Du Bois et al. eds. 109–30.
Longacre, Robert E. 1979. “The discourse structure of the flood narrative.” Journal of the Ameri‑
can Academy of Religion 47(1): 89–133.
Lord, Carol and Kathleen Dahlgren. 1997. “Participant and Event Anaphora in Newspaper Art-
icles”. In Essays on Language Function and Language Type Dedicated to T. Givón, Joan By-
bee, John Haiman and Sandra A Thompson (eds.). Amsterdam: John Benjamins. 323–56.
Lyons, Christopher. 1999. Definiteness. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Maes, Alfons A and Noordman, Leo G M. 1995. “Demonstrative Nominal Anaphors: A Case of
Nonidentificational Markedness”. Linguistics 33: 255–82.
McKoon, Gail, Ward, Gregory, Ratcliff, Roger, and Sproat, Richard. 1993. “Morphosyntactic and
Pragmatic Factors Affecting the Accessibility of Discourse Entities”. Journal of Memory and
Language 32: 56–75.
Miller, Carolyn R. 1984. “Genre as Social Action”. Quarterly Journal of Speech 70: 151–67.
Morris, Celia. 1994. Bearing Witness. Boston: Little, Brown and Company.
Nesher, Ilana A. 2002. “Genre and Reference: Does Genre Have An Influence on Reference?”
Seminar paper, Tel Aviv University (in Hebrew).
O’Brien, Edward J and Albrecht, Jason E. 1991. “The Role of Context in Accessing Antecedents in
Text”. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition 17(1): 94–102.
Ochs, Elinor. 1979. “Planned and Unplanned Discourse”. In Syntax and Semantics, Vol. 12: Dis‑
course and Syntax, Talmy Givón (ed.). NewYork: Academic Press. 51–80.
292	 Mira Ariel
Prince, Ellen F. 1992. “The ZPG Letter: Subjects, Definiteness, and Information-status”. In Dis‑
course Description: Diverse Linguistic Analyses of a Fund-raising Text, William C Mann and
Sandra A Thompson (eds.). Amsterdam: John Benjamins. 295–325.
Prince Gerald. 1987. A Dictionary of Narratology. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press.
Sanford, Anthony J and Garrod, Simon C. 1981. Understanding Written Language. Chichester:
JohnWiley and sons.
Sidner, C. 1979. Towards a Computational Theory of Definite Anaphora Comprehension in Eng‑
lish Discourse. TR-537. Cambridge, Mass: MIT.
Swales, John M. 1990. Genre Analysis. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Swanson, Wendy. 2003. Modes of Co-Reference as Indicator of Genre. Bern: Peter Lang.
Tannen, Deborah (ed.). 1984. Spoken and Written Language: Exploring Orality and Literacy.
Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Thompson, Sandra A. 2001. “Constructions and Conversation”. Paper presented at the Inter‑
national Conference on Cognitive Linguistics, July, 2001, UC Santa Barbara.
Toole, Janine. 1996. “The Effect of Genre on Referential Choice”. In Reference and Referent Ac‑
cessibility, T. Fretheim, and J. Gundel (eds). 263–90.
Traugott, Elizabeth Closs and Ekkehard König. 1991. “The Semantics–Pragmatics of Grammat-
icalization Revisited”. In Approaches to Grammaticalization, Elizabeth Closs Traugott and
Bernd Heine (eds.). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.189–219.
West, G. K. 1980. “That-Nominal Constructions in Traditional Rhetorical Divisions of Scientific
Research Papers”. TESOL Quarterly 14: 483–9.
Yekovich, Frank R and Carol H Walker. 1986. “Retrieval of Scripted Concepts”. Journal of Mem‑
ory and Language 25: 627–44.
chapter 13
Apologies — form and function
“I think it was your foot I was stepping on.”*
Suellen Rundquist
Saint Cloud State University
1.  Introduction
Most studies of apologies focus on one of three things: a taxonomy of the form (see
Fraser 1981; Owen 1983; Olshtain and Cohen 1983); cross-cultural studies (e.g., Tros-
borg 1987; Garcia 1989; Meier 1998; Suszczynska 1999), or politeness and face (Obeng
1999; Meyerhoff 1999). The present study, however, focuses on the interaction of form
and function. This study reveals, first, that speakers apologize indirectly, without using
the conventionalized formulas, and, second, that forms recognized as apologies do not
always function as such. Although the men and women in the data set examined do
apologize directly, what sets this study apart from previous work is the evidence that
the speakers also apologize indirectly, that the apology form and the function do not
always occur together, and that the occurrence of the apology form does not guarantee
its function.
	 Here I present results of a study of apologies made in natural conversation in social
and family situations. The data analyzed are from taped conversations of members of
a small speech community in two different situations: families at dinner and adults
at dinner parties. Members of this speech community are middle-class, middle-aged
friends and neighbors with similar educational backgrounds from the Upper Midwest
Region of the United States. Two independent reviewers as well as several participants
in the study contributed insights to the data analysis.
	 A number of other studies of speech acts use questionnaires or role play situations
to elicit data, the advantage being that one can obtain a large corpus. Fraser (1981) in-
dicates that his study contains “several hundred examples of apologizing [collected]
through personal experience, participant observation, responses of role playing, and
from reports provided by friends and colleagues” (266). Holmes’ (1989; 1990) corpus
contains 183 examples, collected by observation by a number of different observers.
She defends her method as follows: “it seems sensible to observe in as wide a range of
situations as possible to obtain some idea of the range of context in which apologies
 
*  I wish to thank Professor Jeanette Gundel for her mentoring, her encouragement, and her sug-
gestions on the many versions of this chapter.
294	 Suellen Rundquist
occur, the type of offenses which are fruitful in eliciting them, and the kinds of so-
cial factors which appear to be related to different types of apology. This information
can then provide a basis for further study of particular aspects of apologizing where
the relevant social variables can be more carefully controlled for contrastive purpos-
es”(1990: 165).
	 From Holmes’ perspective, this study is a “further study” of a particular aspect of
apologizing. The disadvantage of examining apologies in natural speech is that the fre-
quency of this speech act is not high; thus generalizability is limited. Furthermore, if
context is key to understanding indirect utterances in general, then natural speech is
necessary to understand them, and generalizability will always be limited. Only 51 ex-
amples were found in sixteen hours of conversation. The advantage, however, for the
approach taken in the present study is that, as suggested by Holmes, social variables
are controlled, and we can examine the strategies actually used in making apologies in
natural conversation by a small speech community.
	 In studying a group of people who know each other well, one would expect that the
apologies performed would be different from apologies that people perform in public
among strangers. Further, one might expect that apologies differ when comparing the
two settings in this study, that of family versus that of friends. In Fraser 1981 one factor
considered when examining apologies was “the relative familiarity between the inter-
actants” (268). Fraser found that “as the degree of familiarity increases between inter-
actants, the need (or at least the perceived need) to provide elaborate apologies de-
creases. Husbands and wives reported apologies frequently taking the form of ‘Oops,’
‘No good,’ ‘I’m an idiot’ and the like, where the utterance does not even specifically
refer to the act in question,” nor does it explicitly acknowledge responsibility or ex-
press regret for the act (269). “It appears that under such familiar circumstances, each
works on the assumption that the other will ‘fill in’ the missing parts” (269). Holmes’
1990 study of “Apologies in New Zealand English” also shows “a tendency for apolo-
gies to begin with explanations, and even to consist of explanations alone, to intimates
more often than to nonintimates. Intimacy evidently permits shortcuts and substitu-
tions” (187). Both Fraser and Holmes indicate that this type of apology, an indirect
apology, needs more work or inferencing on the part of the addressee, and that one
would be more likely to demand this of an intimate than of a stranger or even a friend.
Finally, Wolfson (1986; 1988; 1989) proposes a theory of social interaction she calls
“the Bulge,” where “there is a qualitative difference between the speech behavior which
middle-class Americans use to intimates, status unequals, and strangers on the one
hand, and to nonintimates, status-equal friends, coworkers, and acquaintances on the
other” (1988: 32). In other words, the extremes of social distance, not knowing some-
one at all and knowing someone intimately, elicit similar behavior, while relationships
in the center, i.e. among friends and coworkers, show behavior different from the two
extremes. Based on Fraser, Holmes, and Wolfson, then, it is probable that there will be
a difference in how people apologize when addressing family members at dinner, who
are intimates, and when addressing friends at dinner.
	 Apologies — form and function  295
2.  Definition of apology
Among the approaches to defining an apology in the literature, there are two that I wish
to discuss here. The first looks at form, at the speech act of apology itself, listing words
and phrases that indicate that an apology is taking place, while the second stresses its
function and the effect an apology has on the person or persons involved.
	 Examples included here of the first approach, examining the form of an apology, can
in particular be found in Owen, 1983, Fraser, 1981, and Olshtain and Cohen, 1983.
	 Owen (1983: 63) identifies key words for apologies, listing three types: (i) contains
some form of the word apology, including apologies or apologize; (ii) is a form of to be
sorry; and (iii) is a sentence beginning with I’m afraid, such as ‘I’m afraid I’ve stepped
on your foot.’ She notes that type (ii) “be sorry” is the most common type of apology,
but that all three types are “primarily remedial moves that are essentially ritual in na-
ture i.e. they do not relate to substantive issues by attempting to reduce the blame as-
signable to the offender . . .” (92).
	 Fraser (1981: 263) lists nine strategies for apologizing, from what he describes as the
most direct, “I (hereby) apologize . . .” to less direct strategies, such as “That was my
fault,” or “Please let me pay for the damage I’ve done.” Olshtain and Cohen (1983) for-
mulate an ‘apology speech act set’ which collapses Fraser’s nine strategies into five ways
in which people apologize, provided they perceive the need to apologize, as given as ex-
ample (1):
	 (1)	 1.	
there may be an expression of an apology, which usually contains the
verb apologize, forgive, excuse, pardon, or be sorry;
2.	
there may be an explanation or account of the situation, that is, a state-
ment intended to “set things right”;
3.	
there may be an acknowledgement of responsibility, e.g. accepting blame,
“It’s all my fault”; expressing self-deficiency, “I didn’t see you”; recogniz-
ing the other person as deserving an apology, “you are right”; or express-
ing lack of intent, “I didn’t mean to”;
4.	 there may be an offer of repair, “I’ll pay for it”;
5.	
or there may be a promise of forbearance, implying that the apologizer
will prevent the offense from recurring, “It won’t happen again”. (22–3)
The authors note that (4) and (5) are situation specific and therefore not always relevant,
but any of (1) through (3) individually or together may be used in an apology. I main-
tain, as Fraser indicated, that (1) is the most direct type of apology, and that if you bump
into someone and say, “I didn’t see you,” you are performing a more indirect apology
than if you say, “Excuse me. I didn’t see you.”
	 Within Olshtain and Cohen’s category 1 (hereafter O-C1), the expressions “Ex-
cuse me” and “I’m sorry” are not always used interchangeably. Borkin and Reinhart
(1978) differentiate the usage of these two expressions by stating that “I’m sorry is ba-
sically an expression of dismay or regret about a state of affairs viewed or portrayed as
296	 Suellen Rundquist
­
unfortunate by the speaker. It is not necessarily tied to occasions in which the regret-
table state of affairs is the responsibility of the speaker . . . ;” and that Excuse me is a for-
mula used to remedy a past or future infraction of a social norm (60–1). They also sug-
gest that in situations where both expressions are appropriate, as in (a) I’m sorry, what
did you say? or (b) Excuse me, what did you say? that (a) is more informal and that (b)
puts more distance between the speaker and the hearer (61–2). Thus “excuse me” can
be pretty consistently interpreted as an apology, while “I’m sorry” may be an apology
or may be an expression of sympathy for the speaker. Further, Owen differentiates be-
tween the use of “I’m sorry” and just “sorry” by showing that the latter is used either for
insignificant offenses or when the speaker and hearer have a close relationship (67).
	 As an example of the second approach, stressing the function and effect of an apol-
ogy, Goffman (1971: 113) defines an apology as “a gesture through which an individual
splits himself into two parts, the part that is guilty of an offense and the part that disso-
ciates itself from the delict and affirms a belief in the offended rule.” Thus the apologizer
is acknowledging guilt, acknowledging the existence of the social rule that was broken,
and promising not to commit the offense again. According to Goffman, “apologies rep-
resent a splitting of the self into a blameworthy part and part that stands back and sym-
pathises with the blame giving, and, by implication, is worthy of being brought back
into the fold” (113).
	 Leech (1983), also focusing on function and effect, emphasizes the relationship be-
tween the speaker (s) and the hearer (h): “Apologies express regret for some offence
committed by s against h - and there is no implication that s has benefited from the of-
fence. Nevertheless, an apology implies a transaction, in that it is a bid to change the
balance-sheet of the relation between s and h. If the apology is successful, it will result
in h’s pardoning or excusing the offence . . . . Apologizing, like thanking, can be regard-
ed as an acknowledgement of an imbalance in the relation between s and h, and to some
extent, as an attempt to restore the equilibrium” (124–5).
	 Thus in defining an apology by form, one could take any of several frameworks pro-
posed. Olshtain and Cohen’s framework is used here to analyze the data for several rea-
sons: first, it goes beyond the conventionalized phrases of overt apologies; second, it
includes situations covered in Fraser’s taxonomy but in a more compact manner; and
finally, a precedent for using it has been set by Holmes (1990: 166–7) and Suszczynska
(1999). According to Suszczynska, “the model has been empirically developed and its
universal applicability has been successfully tested on various languages” (1056).
	 Adefinitionofanapologyaccordingtofunction,then,includesGoffmanandLeech’s
ideas. An apology is a gesture where the one who apologizes does at least one of the fol-
lowing:
·	 acknowledges guilt for an offense;
·	 acknowledges that s/he has broken a social rule;
·	 acknowledges an imbalance in the relationship;
·	 attempts “to restore the equilibrium.”
	 Apologies — form and function  297
An apology may or may not be successful in terms of resulting in a pardon, but if a par-
don occurs, one can surmise that the apology function has taken place.
2.1  Indirect apologies
The definition of indirectness used here is that a speaker is indirect anytime the mean-
ing conveyed within a conversational context is not directly encoded by the syntactic
and lexical content of the utterance (see Grice 1975; Searle 1975; Blum-Kulka 1987;
1990). Understanding the intended meaning is often not possible without the context
in which the utterance occurs.
	 An indirect apology, then, is a gesture that functions as an apology in terms of the
definition of function above, but it does not have the conventionalized forms discussed.
The apology is not directly encoded by the syntactic and lexical content of the utterance.
Any statement that excludes an overt marker such as Olshtain Cohen (O-C)1, that is,
an expression of an apology (apologize, excuse, forgive, pardon, be sorry), but that in-
cludes an apology function as specified above, can be considered an indirect apology.
2.2  Apology form without function
It is also possible to use the apology form without the function. Blackman and Stubbs
(2001) studied apologies using manipulated situations. Based on their data, they con-
clude that “apologies in some cases may be nothing more than scripted responses to
ease a socially awkward situation . . .” (50). Indeed, when a person says, “I apologize,”
even though the form is present, one can question the function or its sincerity (see Aus-
tin 1962: 83–7).
3.  Data
To begin with, Table 1 shows the number of apologies in the data. The first items on Ta-
ble 1, (1) simple apology, (2) apology and explanation, (3) apology, explanation and
acknowledgment of responsibility, and (4) apology with a more complex message at-
tached, include easily recognizable apology forms that also function sincerely as apolo-
gies. The sub-total of these can be found in (5).
	 With the next item on the table, item (6), the situation becomes more complex. There
were four occurrences of apology forms that were clearly not functioning as such. In
fact, their sincerity is in question. However, it is item (7) on the table, indirect apologies,
with the function of an apology but no clear form, that makes the data interesting. Note
that there are twenty examples of this type of apology in the corpus.
	 Finally, item (8) notes an unusual event, where an apology form was used with no in-
tent to apologize but for a different function entirely. (See Section 3.5 below for an ex-
planation of this non-functioning apology.)
298	 Suellen Rundquist
	 The following sections, Section 3.1 through Section 3.5, provide examples illustrat-
ing the categories presented in Table 1.
3.1  Direct apologies
The examples in this section illustrate apologies that correspond to the conventional
form that is anticipated in a situation where an apology is demanded or expected.
3.1.1  A simple apology: ritualized politeness
The first examples presented here contain phrases from O-C 1, and can thus be consid-
ered direct apologies. Furthermore, there appear to be no indirect messages built in to
these utterances of apology. One might also say that these examples illustrate ritualized
politeness within this society. The speakers are following the conventionalized rules
where an apology form is expected in these situations. What is important is the form;
the function is to show compliance to societal expectations. In examples (2), (3) and (4)
the speakers are all using the simple conventionalized expression, “excuse me.”
	 In example (2) the speaker is simply excusing himself for coughing, a socially correct
response.Within this society a formulaic apology is expected in this situation.
	 (2)	 Matt:  (Coughs) Excuse me.
In (3) Amy has just interrupted Suzanne in the course of conversation. She apologizes
here for the interruption, again an expected ritual of politeness, and Suzanne then al-
lows Amy to continue speaking.
.  The anonymity of participants is protected by name changes.
//=interruptions and overlaps; [hhh] = general laughter; bold type indicates stress.
Table 1.  Type and number of apologies in corpus
Type Number
Direct Apologies
	 1.	 Simple apology (ritualized) 13
	 2.	 Apology and explanation   5
	 3.	 Apology, explanation and acknowledgment of responsibility   2
	 4.	 Surface apology with complex message   6
	 5.	 Sub-total: sincere with apology form 26
Insincere Apologies
	 Sarcasm   4
Indirect Apologies
	 Apology function without form 20
Anomaly
	 Apology form with different function   1
Total, all forms 51
	 Apologies — form and function  299
	 (3)	 Suzanne:	 Um
Amy:	 Oh, excuse me, Suzanne.
Suzanne:	 No, you go right ahead.
Amy:	 No, I was just gonna say . . .
In (4) the woman is apologizing for having misspoken, for her own inexactness, be-
ginning with “We’ve gone out,” but then making a repair, changing it to “We didn’t get
out  . . . ”
	 (4)	 Amy:	
We have golfed.We’ve gone out (.) excuse me we didn’t get out as
much this summer as we did last year.
In (5) the family had agreed to tape four conversations over a one-month period of
time. Several months later the man made his usual announcement at the beginning of a
session on tape, indicating the number and the date, and the woman then apologized to
the researcher for having taken so long in completing the taped conversations.
	 (5)	 Richard:	 This is our fourth tape. October ninth.
Amy:	 We’re sorry.
By using “we’re sorry” she is including the entire family in the apology, implying that
more than one of them were responsible for the delay.
	 Within the data set there were thirteen tokens of this type in the corpus (see Table 1).
3.1.2  An apology and explanation
The following examples are more elaborate, going beyond the ritualized expressions.
Examples (6), (7), and (8) are also direct apologies, but contain elements not only from
O-C 1, but also from O-C 2, an explanation of the situation.
	 (6)	 Family is just beginning the meal.
Sarah:	 Oh, I didn’t cut the bread. Sorry.
	 (7)	 (Children are discussing going to the store to buy candy.)
Father:	 Shh! No, I don’t think you need to buy any more candy.
Child:	 Ooh!
Father:	 Sorry.
	 (8)	 Discussion has been about a music group that played all day at the local el-
ementary school.
Sarah:	
I made all these cookies. I took them all down to them, Matt. Sorry.
They hadn’t had lunch.
In (6) the speaker begins with an explanation of the situation (O-C 2), “I didn’t cut the
bread,” and continues with the O-C 1 expression, “sorry.” In example (7) the father,
.  Although there are many utterances by children in the corpus, there are no examples of chil-
dren performing an apology.
300	 Suellen Rundquist
Matt, provides the explanation first (O-C 2), “I don’t think you need to buy any more
candy,” and then a simple “sorry” (O-C 1), indicating that he is sorry that he has to say
no to their request to buy candy. In (8) Sarah is apologizing, “Sorry”, O-C 1, for not
saving any cookies for her husband. She then includes an explanation for her actions,
O-C 2.
	 The use of “sorry” in these examples is consistent with Borkin and Reinhart’s (1978)
theory that “sorry” is preferred in informal situations as well as Owen’s (1983) theory
that the use of “sorry” is an indication of a close relationship. All three of these situ-
ations are among family members. This type of apology occurred five times in the cor-
pus.
3.1.3  An apology, explanation, and acknowledgment of responsibility
Example (9) not only contains elements from O-C 1 and O-C 2, but also adds an ac-
knowledgment of responsibility, O-C 3.
	 (9)	 Sam:	
Would you please pass the bread? If it’s not too much trouble to
anyone?
	 [hhh]
Don:	 Hmm.Which kind of bread would you like?
Suzanne:	
Excuse me. I forgot to light the candles. And I’m not gonna // light
all of them.
Don:	 /Oh no// no, don’t light the candles. They’re new. Save the candles.
[hhh]
Don:	 You can use ‘em next time.
Suzanne:	 Right. I’m not gonna light them all.
In example (9) Suzanne, the woman hosting the party, apologizes for forgetting to light
the candles on the table, using a simple conventionalized expression from O-C 1, “ex-
cuse me”, while also including both an explanation of the situation (O-C 2) and an ac-
knowledgment of responsibility (O-C 3) in the single phrase, “I forgot.”
	 Only two examples of this type occurred in the data.
3.2  Direct surface apology with more complex message
The examples in this section are still direct apologies with a minimum of O-C 1 elem-
ents. However, a more complex message accompanies the direct apology, frequently
in indirect form. There were six tokens of this general type in the speech in the data set.
3.2.1  An apology ‘plus’
A seemingly simple direct surface apology appears in the following examples, but what
distinguishes these examples from those in the previous section is an indirect message
accompanying the apology.
	 Apologies — form and function  301
	 (10)	 Matt:	 They did a study that acrylic socks are//
Sarah:	 //soccer is really popular.
Sam:	 Excuse me, Matt?
Matt:	
They did a study that acrylic socks are better for your feet to prevent
blisters than cotton.
In (10) Sam did not hear Matt’s comment. By saying “excuse me,” O-C 1, he is on the
one hand apologizing for not hearing what Matt had just said and at the same time is in-
directly asking him to repeat his comment, indicated by the standard rising intonation
of a question. This is the interpretation that Matt gave it as well, as he immediately re-
peated his utterance. The use of “excuse me” here is more formal than “sorry” and may
be used to put some distance between the speaker and hearer (Borkin and Reinhart).
Perhaps the speaker is using this distancing as a way of indirectly admitting a weakness,
that he did not hear the comment.
	 (11)	 Gillian:	 Why doesn’t she ever like to come?
Suzanne:	
Well . . . you know, I think she’s just getting a little . . . she’s having
little . . . mental problems as she gets older. I think she’s just getting
worse.
Gillian:	 Worse?
Suzanne:	 Yeah.
Gillian:	 See . . . see now that implies there was a problem before . . . worse.
Suzanne:	 Oh. I’m sorry.
In (11) the stressed “oh” followed by a short pause and a stressed “I’m” suggest that Su-
zanne is apologizing for implying that the person being discussed had some sort of pre-
vious problem. When questioned about this example, Suzanne indicated that she was
apologizing for making the implication, not because it is untrue, but because she didn’t
wish to pursue that line of conversation. Thus here, accompanying the direct apology, is
the implicature that she does not wish to discuss the previous “problem.”
3.2.2  An apology with an explanation
The following two examples continue this thread of burying an indirect message within
the direct apology. These examples include O- C 1 and O-C 2, a direct apology with an
explanation or account of the situation.
	 (12)	 Discussion is of relatives getting together for Thanksgiving.
Gillian:	 Where were you for Thanksgiving? Here?
Suzanne:	 We went to Ann and Tom’s.
Gillian:	 Oh, you did.
Suzanne:	 Yeah.
Gillian:	 Oh that’s right, you said you just got back.
Suzanne:	
Yeah, um, we haven’t done that for a while and ,um, Jack and Linda
302	 Suellen Rundquist
had talked about coming for Thanksgiving. So Ann and Tom said
[to us], “You be sure to come.”
Amy:	 Please!
Gillian:	 Please come!
[hhh]
Amy:	 Oh. I’m sorry but I read [Ann’s] card to Martha.What can I say!
In (12) Amy, by saying “I’m sorry,” is apologizing to the rest of the group for making
an inside joke that many of the others do not understand. Note that the stress pattern
is identical to Suzanne’s apology in example (11). She then gives an explanation or ac-
count of the situation by saying that she has read a postcard written by Ann and thus
has inside information. She is using O-C 1, “I’m sorry” along with O-C 2, an explan-
ation or account of the situation. An indirect message that is successfully expressed
here, though, is that Amy has access to information that wasn’t necessarily meant for
her to know, and to which the others do not have access. The other participants are in-
deed left with the feeling that she knows more than they do.
	 In example (13) the mother begins with the apology form of “sorry” (O-C 1) and
continues with an explanation of sorts (O-C 2).
	 (13)	 (Lisa, the mother, has been talking about having to kill a squirrel for a biology
class in college.)
Child 1:	 Mom!
Child 2:	 Ooh!
Lisa:	
Well, sorry. At least you know what things I’ve suffered in my life.
I’m a better person for it, I’m sure.
Children:	 (hhh)
Here the mother is apologizing for discussing a gross topic, at least the children have
reacted to it as a gross topic. In her account of the situation, however, she exaggerates
the importance of this event in her life to the point where the children know she is jok-
ing and laugh at her comments. Her indirect message seems to be that we all have to do
unpleasant things in life from time to time, that most of them aren’t great tragedies, and
that we can only hope these experiences will be to our benefit.
3.2.3  An apology, explanation, and acknowledgment of responsibility
In example (14) we find elements of O-C 1, O-C 2, and O-C 3.
	 (14)	 (At the dinner table.)
Matt:	 Do [you] have a water pitcher?
Suzanne:	 Oh, yeah. Oh I’m sorry. I forgot.
Matt:	 No, that’s alright. I’ll get it.
This example begins with an indirect request, since the question is not eliciting a yes/
no answer regarding the possession of a water pitcher, but is instead a request for more
	 Apologies — form and function  303
water. The woman begins by responding to the question, rather than the request, but
then immediately responds to the request by apologizing for not offering more water
to the guest, using expressions that fit into O-C (1) through (3). She apologizes with
“I’m sorry” and then, within one phrase, “I forgot,” both gives a reason (O-C 2) and
expresses her self-deficiency (O-C 3). What adds to the complexity of this example is
the woman’s initial response, “Oh, yeah.” As stated above it can be taken as a direct re-
sponse to the question, “Do you have a water pitcher?” However, it also serves as an
indicator that her memory has been jogged, that the “light bulb” has suddenly been
turned on.
	 Example (15) also includes elements of O-C (1) through (3).
	 (15)	 Sam:  Excuse me, Sarah, I didn’t hear what you wanted.
In (15) the speaker is apologizing (O-C 1) and, like example (14), within the single
phrase “I didn’t hear what you wanted,” is overtly providing an explanation (O-C 2)
while at the same time expressing self-deficiency (O-C 3). However, like example (10)
above, this direct apology for not hearing the woman’s utterance is also serving as an
indirect request for her to repeat it, giving it more complexity than a direct apology.
3.3  ‘Non-apology’ apologies
The following examples contain the apology form but the intent of an apology is absent.
These do not function as sincere apologies. O-C 1 is present in each of these utterances,
making them appear on the surface as direct apologies. But in examining the context in
each exchange there is reason to doubt the sincerity of the speaker in making an apol-
ogy.
	 (16)	 Family has been discussing how the daughter doesn’t like the casserole that is
being served.When she is asked if she wants some, she replies “un peu.” Dav-
id, the father, gives her some.
Child:	 Can I have some more risotto?
David:	 You want some more?
Child:	 Yeah. Un Peu. And bread.
Colette (mother):	 [you] pick at the peas.
[father serves child some risotto]
Child:	 That’s enough!
David:	 Oh, sorry. Do you want some more?
Child:	 I said “un peu.”
In (16), after the child has asked for ‘a little’, David, the father, initially apologizes for
giving his daughter more casserole than she wants, with “sorry.” But by immediately
asking the question, “Do you want some more?” he is canceling the sincerity of the
apology, teasing his daughter.
304	 Suellen Rundquist
	 (17)	 Child1:	 May I have some water?
Phillip:	 No, sorry, we’re all out.
Child2 to Child1:  But they’re lying. Even I think they’re lying.
	 Example (17) shows a similar strategy on the part of a father, where he initially apol-
ogizes to his daughter for being out of water, but the premise of being out of water is so
ridiculous that it cancels the sincerity of the apology. Even the older child reveals her
understanding of the situation - “they’re lying.”
	 In Grice’s (1975) proposed theory of conversation he defines a particular type of in-
directness that he calls “flouting” the maxims, which results when the speaker does not
observe a maxim but expects the addressee to know that the maxim is not being ob-
served, thereby inferring something beyond what was said. In both (16) and (17) the
fathers use an apology form in an unstressed, understated way, but are not sincere, are
in fact teasing or flouting Grice’s maxim of quality – “do not say what you believe to be
false.” (See Rundquist 1992 regarding fathers flouting Grice’s maxims of conversation).
	 (18)	 Discussion has been of a local school principal.
Participants indicate that this principal will soon retire. (Many people do not
like this person.)
Lisa:	 [the principal] is retiring at the end//
Sarah:	 //yeah, he’s retiring in two years. That . . . he’s made that public.
Don:	 I’m sorry, Matt!
	 In (18), everyone in the group knows that Matt does not like this principal, so when
the speaker says, “I’m sorry, Matt,” everyone knows that he is being sarcastic, not sin-
cere, another example of flouting the maxim of quality. Even though the surface form of
an apology is here, an apology is not the intention.
3.4  Indirect apologies
In this section the examples show no evidence of a direct apology form but illustrate,
in various ways, the apology function. There were twenty examples of this type of apol-
ogy in the corpus.
3.4.1  Conventional Indirectness: apology function—no directness in form
Examples (19) through (21) illustrate the act of apology without the apology form.
Olshtain and Cohen’s Apology Speech Act Set and Leech’s notion of equilibrium are
used to show how this is possible.
	 Example (19) involves a married couple. The man is eating and spills food from his
fork onto his lap.
	 Apologies — form and function  305
	 (19)	 Sam:	
I need training with these forks, Suzanne. I can’t . . . they’re too
long. I keep spilling.
Suzanne:	 Oh, sorry. Should I give you the small one?
Sam:	 Yeah. My little one, the one that goes over my fingers.
	 In this example, since Sam has spilled, an apology is called for on his part. Note
that O-C 2 is present, with an explanation of the situation (i.e., the forks are too long!),
and O-C 3, an acknowledgment of responsibility, is represented (“I keep spilling”), but
there is no conventionalized expression of apology in the man’s speech. This is a good
example, then, of an indirect apology. The example is further complicated by what ap-
pears to be an apology by Suzanne. On the surface it seems that she is induced to apolo-
gize for the length of the forks, giving the impression that it is somehow her fault, that
she is accepting responsibility for the forks being too long! However, she continues
with an offer of “the small one,” making a joke of the situation. The man picks up the
joke with a reference to a child’s fork, “the one that goes over my fingers.”
	 (
20)	 Matt spills salad on the carpeting. He doesn’t say anything but looks deliber-
ately at Suzanne, the host of the dinner, elaborating his embarrassment.
Suzanne:	 (Softly) Nobody saw it, Matt.
	 The situation in (20) calls for an apology, but none is given verbally. Suzanne’s re-
sponse indicates that she accepts his physical demeanor as an apology, truly an indirect
apology, since there is no evidence of a speech act. But since the hearer, in a position to
do so as host of the dinner, excuses the offense, the apology is successful. Equilibrium is
restored.
	 In the following example Sam has accidentally stepped on Dianne’s foot, another oc-
currence that calls for an apology.
	 (21)	 Sam:	 I think it was your foot that I was//
Dianne:	 //Yes. It’s okay//
Sam:	 //stepping on here.
In saying what he says, Sam is giving an explanation (O-C 2) and acknowledging re-
sponsibility for the action (O-C 3). However, there is no syntactic surface statement
that relates to a direct apology. It is successful, as indicated by Dianne’s response.
	 The next example is from parent-child data. The child is angry with her father for
shouting at her. She has refused to speak throughout a portion of the family conver-
sation. After much effort he has succeeded in easing her back into the conversation.
She asks where the oars and pump for a rubber raft have come from, and the father re-
sponds with (22), which can be interpreted as an apology (See Rundquist, 1992).
	 (22)	 Sam:	
The oars and the pump were purchased separately by your generous
father . . . masquerading as the mean ogre . . . who lives here . . . and
shouts.
Child:	 And doesn’t like people to talk!
306	 Suellen Rundquist
Notice that the conventionalized language of apology does not appear here. There is
no “I’m sorry for shouting at you” overtly stated. One might say that there is an account
of the situation, given with the intention of “setting things right.” And one might also
say that the father is acknowledging responsibility, by referring to himself as “masquer-
ading as the mean ogre who lives here and shouts.” Thus one could argue that O-C 2
and O-C 3 of the Apology Speech Act Set are there, even if they are not in the form one
would expect. This father is attempting to restore the equilibrium. This, then, is an ex-
ample of apologizing while avoiding the appearance of an apology. The child’s response
indicates that she at least recognizes his attempt at apologizing. She knows that she will
not get into trouble by talking back to him.
3.4.2  Function without form for humor.
In (23) through (25) the evidence of an apology is even less obvious. The man in each
case is attempting to be funny, to diffuse the situation by making others laugh, thus
avoiding an overt apology.
	 (23)	 (Breakfast on a camping trip. The woman has been complaining about spend-
ing all her time making meals.)
Lisa:	
Do you want toast? Do you want toast instead of caramel rolls?
Carter:	
I’d rather have a plain piece of toast . . . I don’t want jelly on my toast
either . . . I just want it plain . . . no butter . . . If you have a moldy
piece, I’d like that even better.
	 In example (23) instead of giving a conventional apology such as “I’m sorry you’re
working so hard when we’re on vacation” or “I’m sorry we’re so demanding,” Carter
grossly exaggerates his response. He is implicating in a humorous way that he doesn’t
want to be any trouble, that she certainly shouldn’t put herself out for him; but there
is also an implication that he is sorry that she has worked so hard. He is indirectly
acknowledging responsibility (O-C 3) and humorously attempting to make amends
(O-C 4), without actually appearing to apologize. Elements of Olshtain and Cohen’s
categories are not overtly stated; he has not said “I apologize” or “forgive me;” he
has not even said “It’s all my fault”, O-C 3, acknowledging responsibility, or “Let me
help you,” O-C 4, an offer of repair. In fact, the woman in this situation has indicat-
ed to me that her husband would never overtly apologize, that this is as close as he
gets, using humor to break the tension, to recreate harmony. However, the function
of an apology is evident, a very indirect apology, when interpreted within this con-
text. This speaker is “acknowledging an imbalance” in the relationship and “attempt-
ing to restore the equilibrium”. Again, it appears to work, as the woman lightens up
after this.
	 In examples (24) and (25) the speakers, on the surface, appear to be denying the
need to apologize. There is no overt evidence of an apology, direct or indirect. However,
within the context for each, there is an indirect meaning conveyed that makes these ex-
amples worthy of further examination.
	 Apologies — form and function  307
	 (24)	 Child:	 Dad, remember when you said Sam’s a wimp?
Matt:	 Now . . . I didn’t say that.
Child:	 Yes you did.
Matt:	 No I didn’t.
Child:	 Yes you did.
Matt:	 Sh. Not so loud. I did not.
	 Earlier in the conversation Matt, the father, did say “Sam’s a wimp.”
Instead of say-
ing, “I apologize for saying that,” or “I didn’t really mean it,” Matt is over zealously
denying something that everyone, including the child, knows is true. His humorous,
over-zealous denials actually convey the message that he knows he said this. He ac-
knowledges that he has broken a social rule, which is a function of an apology. Note es-
pecially the phrase, “Sh. Not so loud.” So the indirect message, not stated in the surface
structure, is that he is at least acknowledging responsibility (O-C 3) for having said this,
and showing an awareness of its unacceptability.
	 (25)	 Child:	 Well, you were snoring last night.
Carter:	 No I wasn’t.
Child:	 Yes you were! I was trying to cover my ears.
Carter:	 I was awake last night. So I couldn’t have been snoring.
Child:	 You were snoring.You should have heard.
Carter:	 I think it was Mom.
	 In (25) Carter, the father, is also protesting too much. Instead of saying, “Oh I’m sor-
ry. Did I keep you awake?” he is, through humor and making a game of it, showing the
child that the surface meaning of his words should not be taken seriously. His blatant
denials that he was snoring are functioning as an apology. He is acknowledging his own
guilt, attempting to restore the equilibrium.
	 Examples (24) and (25) could be taken at face value as denial of responsibility, as de-
nying the need to apologize. However, within the context for each, there is an indirect
meaning conveyed that puts them into a different category. Because what they say is
so obviously untrue, there is at least an implied awareness of guilt, or acceptance of re-
sponsibility. Moreover, the humor involved encourages the audience to accept the situ-
ation and to bestow a pardon on the speaker. Thus the function of an apology is recog-
nized by the participants.
3.5  Apology form — no apology function; pure entertainment
To emphasize the point that the men in this study play with the concept of apologies
I conclude with this example. The family just finished a quick meal in the car while
traveling. The teen-aged son was driving the family car with his father sitting in the pas-
.  Proof that he said this is on the tape.
308	 Suellen Rundquist
senger’s seat. Because of a bumpy road the son’s cup of Sprite (soda) tipped over into
his father’s shoe, which was lying on the floor directly beneath the cup. Sam, the father,
very quickly picked up the shoe and poured the contents out of the window.
	 (26)	 Sam:	 I’m sorry I didn’t pour that Sprite back into your cup.
Son:	 That’s okay.
Sam:	 I should’ve at least asked.
Sam includes an overt apology (O-C 1) and an acknowledgment of responsibility (O-
C 3 - “I should’ve at least asked”). However, he is clearly flouting the maxim of quality,
the sincerity of the apology speech act, since what he is apologizing for, for not pour-
ing the Sprite back into the cup so that the son could drink it, is not what one would
expect or want to have happen. He is acknowledging guilt, but there is no guilt to ac-
knowledge. The tone of voice is calm and contrite, mimicking an actual apology, and
the son’s response is the same, mimicking a pardon, indicating that he is going along
with the game. This example of an overt apology in form is, in function, clearly not an
apology.
4.  Analysis
As discussed in Section 1, one might expect that forms of apologies will differ when
a speaker apologizes to a family member versus a friend. There is strong evidence in
support of this premise in these data. In examining the most direct forms of apol-
ogy, one finds that all of the uses of “excuse me” occur in the data collected among
friends, none among family. This corroborates Borkin and Reinhart’s (1978) idea that
“excuse me” is not only a formulaic response to remedy an infraction of a social norm,
but that it is also a more formal type of apology. Within family conversations among
intimates, all direct apologies consist of the simple “sorry.” Example (26) is the only
one where the more elaborate “I’m sorry” occurs, and this example, while being in
the form of a polite apology, does not function as one. The use of this more elabor-
ate form with the pronoun makes an even stronger contrast between form and non-
function.
	 Although “excuse me” is the preferred form in the data collected among friends, both
“I’m (we’re) sorry” and “sorry” also occur in these data. However, “sorry” as used in ex-
amples (17) and (19) within families is not a sincere apology, as was discussed. Thus
one might say Owen’s (1983) claim that just plain “sorry” is used either for insignificant
offenses or when there is a close relationship between hearer and speaker is upheld. In
comparing the uses of “excuse me” and “I’m sorry” in the data collected among friends,
one finds that “excuse me” has a more formal feeling and tends to put more social dis-
tance between the speaker and hearer, as predicted by Borkin and Reinhart (1978). Fi-
nally, since no data from strangers were included in this study, one cannot relate the
results directly to Wolfson’s Bulge theory (1986; 1988; 1989). However, in comparing
	 Apologies — form and function  309
the category of intimate and family members with the category of friends and acquaint-
ances, as illustrated above, one can see that there is a difference in behavior regarding
apologies.
4.1  Indirect Apologies
Almost 40% of the examples in the data set are considered indirect apologies, having
the function of an apology but not the overt form of O-C 1.Within these examples are
found evidence of an acknowledgment of guilt or a broken social rule, an acknowledg-
ment of an imbalance in the relationship with an attempt to restore the balance, or evi-
dence of a pardon.
4.2  Indirectness and Gender
Although the main focus of the present study is apology form and function, a few ob-
servations on gender of the speaker are appropriate. The women in the data set show
a greater preference for the direct apology: “I’m sorry,” “Excuse me,” than do the men.
Owen claims that these expressions are “primarily remedial moves that are essentially
ritual in nature” (1983: 92). Even though an apology can be considered a threat to the
speaker’s face, Tannen states that women “do not instinctively balk at risking a one-
down position” (1990: 232). If the women do think of these phrases as ritualized for-
mulas, it follows that using these expressions will not be costly to them. It is also pos-
sible that the women recognize a trade-off in using a direct apology; they get something
in return. In other words, these women maintain face by addressing the face needs of
others (Brown and Levinson, 1987). Because this culture values the apology form, by
directly apologizing in a given situation, one can gain good will very quickly and effi-
ciently and also gain the appearance of being polite.
	 The apologies found in the men’s speech vary from the women’s in two ways: first,
the men use the ritualized apology forms to convey messages other than apologies; and
second, they apologize indirectly more frequently, not using ritualized forms. The ma-
jority of the examples of indirect apologies, where the function is evident but the form
is obscure, are found in the men’s speech.While the men in the data do directly apolo-
gize, they also use the surface form of apologizing in situations where an apology clear-
ly is not intended, and they frequently apologize indirectly in situations that call for an
apology. In these cases one can conclude that the men may be avoiding the appearance
of apologizing, for whatever reason. They are not avoiding an apology, since evidence
of Olshtain and Cohen’s categories 2 and 3 as well as the functions of an apology - ac-
knowledgment of guilt, a broken social rule, an imbalance in the relationship with an
attempt to restore the equilibrium are present. Also, an acceptance by the hearer can be
found in these examples. Tannen suggests that men are less likely to put themselves in
a one-down situation. Avoiding an apology would allow the speaker to avoid the one-
down position. Avoiding the appearance of apologizing will also allow the speaker to
310	 Suellen Rundquist
avoid the one-down position, while at the same time acknowledging societal expect-
ations. The men are still able to maintain face while indirectly addressing the face needs
of others.
5.  Conclusion
The focus of the present study has been on form and function of apologies in natural
conversation, revealing that form and function do not always accompany each other.
This study is of a small group of people who interact on a regular basis. Even though
most of us think that we understand the term indirectness within our own speech, Wi-
erzbicka (1991: 88–104) suggests that when examining and comparing different cul-
tures the notions of directness and indirectness are far from clear. Each culture has its
own values and thus one cannot predict the values of indirectness in one culture given
those of another. To interpret the data in this study it was thus necessary at times to in-
clude participants. Only other members of the speech community could fully interpret
some of the more obscure messages.
	 Finally, indirectness has different functions within this society. It is often equated
with politeness (e.g., Lakoff 1973; 1975; Ervin-Tripp 1976; Searle 1975; Leech 1983;
Brown and Levinson 1987; Kerbrat-Orecchioni 1997; in contrast see Davison 1975;
Blum-Kulka 1987). It has been related to face, both positive and negative (e.g., Brown
and Levinson 1987; Jorgensen 1996; Kerbrat-Oreccioni 1997). And it has frequently
been equated to powerlessness (e.g., Lakoff 1975; 1990). Tannen (1993b) points out
that indirectness is found in the speech of both those with power and those without. In
any interpretation of linguistic indirectness there is a possibility of ambiguity; in Tan-
nen’s words, “the interpretation of a given utterance and the likely response to it depend
on the setting, on individuals’ status and their relationship to each other, and also on
the linguistic conventions that are ritualized in the cultural context” (1993b: 175). Thus
the apologies in this study, direct or indirect, can best be interpreted through theories
of pragmatic inference that include reference to the social and cultural contexts of the
language users (See Mey 2001; Haberland and Mey 2002; see also Marmaridou 2000).
	 More empirical studies of both the form and function of apologies in different set-
tings are necessary to complement these data and to further our understanding of the
pragmatics of apologies.
References
Austin, J. L.  1962. How to Do Things with Words, 2nd edition. J. O. Urmson and Marina Sbisa
(eds). Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Blackman, M. C. and Stubbs, E. C. 2001. “Apologies: Genuine admissions of blameworthiness or
scripted, sympathetic responses?” Psychological Reports 88(1): 45–50.
	 Apologies — form and function  311
Blum-Kulka, Shoshana. 1987. “Indirectness and politeness in requests: Same or different?” Jour‑
nal of Pragmatics 11: 131–46.
Blum-Kulka, Shoshana. 1990. “You don’t touch the lettuce with your fingers: Parental politeness
in family discourse.” Journal of Pragmatics 14: 259–88.
Blum-Kulka, Shoshana, House, Juliane, and Kasper, Gabriele (eds.). 1989. Cross-Cultural Prag‑
matics: Requests and Apologies. Norwood, N. J.: Ablex Publishing.
Borkin, Ann and Reinhart, Susan M. 1978. “Excuse me and I’m sorry.” TESOL Quarterly 12: 1:
57–69.
Brown, Penelope and Levinson, Stephen C. 1987. Politeness: Some Universals in Language Us‑
age. Cambridge University Press. First published in 1978 in Esther N. Goody (ed.): Ques‑
tions and Politeness
Cohen, Andrew D. and Olshtain, Elite. 1981. “Developing a measure of sociocultural compe-
tence: The case of apology.” Language Learning 31(1): 113–34.
Cole, Peter and Morgan, Jerry L. (eds.). 1975. Syntax and Semantics: Speech Acts, vol. 3. New
York: Academic Press.
Coulmas, Florian (ed.). 1981. Conversational Routine. The Hague: Mouton.
Davison, Alice. 1975. “Indirect speech acts and what to do with them.” In Cole and Morgan,
143–85.
Ervin-Tripp, Susan. 1976. “Is Sybil there? The structure of some American English directives.”
Language in Society 5: 25–66.
Fine, J. (ed.). 1988. Second Language Discourse: A Textbook of Current Research. Norwood, N. J.:
Ablex.
Fraser, Bruce. 1981. “On apologizing.” In Coulmas, 259–71.
Garcia. Carmen. 1989. “Apologizing in English: Politeness strategies used by native and non-na-
tive speakers.” Multilingua 8–1: 3–20.
Grice, H. P. 1975. “Logic and conversation.” In Cole and Morgan, 41–58.
Goffman, E. 1971. Relations in Public: Microstudies of the Public Order. New York: Basic Books,
Inc.
Haberland, Hartmut and Mey, Jacob L. 2002. “Linguistics and pragmatics, 25 years after.” Jour‑
nal of Pragmatics 34: 1671–82.
Holmes, Janet. 1989. “Sex differences and apologies: One aspect of communicative competence.”
Applied Linguistics 10: 2: 194–213.
Holmes, Janet. 1990. “Apologies in New Zealand English.” Language in Society 19: 155–99.
Holmes, Janet. 1993. “New Zealand women are good to talk to: An analysis of politeness strat-
egies in interaction.” Journal of Pragmatics 20: 91–16.
Jorgensen, Julia. 1996. “The functions of sarcastic irony in speech.” Journal of Pragmatics 26: 613–
34.
Kerbrat-Orecchioni, Catherine. 1997. “A multilevel approach in the study of talk-in-interaction.”
Pragmatics 7: 1–20.
Lakoff, Robin. 1973. “The logic of politeness; or, minding your p’s and q’s.” Proceedings of the
Ninth Regional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society, 292–305.
Lakoff, Robin. 1975. Language and Woman’s Place. New York: Harper and Row.
Leech, Geoffrey N. 1983. Principles of Pragmatics. Longman.
Marmaridou, Sophia S. A. 2000. Pragmatic Meaning and Cognition. Amsterdam/Philadelphia:
John Benjamins Publishing Company.
Meier, A. J.  1998. “Apologies: What do we know?” International Journal of Applied Linguistics
8–2: 215–31.
312	 Suellen Rundquist
Mey, Jacob L. 2001. Pragmatics: An Introduction, 2nd ed. Oxford: Blackwell.
Meyerhoff, Miriam. 1999. “Sorry in the Pacific: Defining communities, defining practices.” Lan‑
guage in Society 28: 225–38.
Obeng, Samuel Gyasi. 1999. “Apologies in Akan discourse.” Journal of Pragmatics 31: 709–34.
Olshtain, Elite and Cohen, Andrew D. 1983. “Apology: A speech act set.” In Wolfson and Judd,
18–35.
Owen, Marion. 1983. Apologies and Remedial Interchanges: A Study of Language Use in Social In‑
teraction. Berlin: Mouton Publishers.
Rundquist, Suellen. 1992. “Indirectness: A gender study of flouting Grice’s maxims.” Journal of
Pragmatics 18: 431–49.
Searle, John R. 1975. “Indirect speech acts.” In Cole and Morgan, 59–82.
Suszczynska, Malgorzata. 1999. “Apologizing in English, Polish and Hungarian: Different lan-
guages, different strategies.” Journal of Pragmatics 31: 1053–1065.
Tannen, Deborah. 1990. You Just Don’t Understand: Women and Men in Conversation. William
Morrow and Company, Inc.
Tannen, Deborah (ed.). 1993a Gender and Conversational Interaction. New York: Oxford Uni-
versity Press.
Tannen, Deborah. 1993b “The relativity of linguistic strategies: Rethinking power and solidarity
in gender and dominance.” In Tannen 1993a, 165–88.
Trosborg, Anna. 1987. “Apology strategies in natives/non-natives.” Journal of Pragmatics 11: 147–
67.
Wierzbicka, Anna. 1991. Cross-Cultural Pragmatics: The Semantics of Human Interaction. New
York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Wolfson, N. 1986. “Research methodology and the question of validity.” TESOL Quarterly
20: 4:689–99.
Wolfson, N. 1988. “The bulge: A theory of speech behavior and social distance.” In Fine, 21–38.
Wolfson, N. 1989. “Problems in the comparison of speech acts across cultures.” In Blum-Kulka,
House, and Kasper, 174–96.
Wolfson, N. and Judd, Elliot (eds.). 1983. Sociolinguistics and Language Acquisition. Rowley,
Mass: Newbury House.
chapter 14
Subjectivity, perspective and footing
in Japanese co-constructions
Polly Szatrowski
University of Minnesota
1.	 Introduction
Grammarians have accounted for phenomena such as Japanese person restriction and
perspective in deictic verbs in grammatical terms. However, evidence from an analysis
of co-constructions suggests that pragmatics may override these grammatical accounts
in spontaneous conversations.
	 In this chapter I analyze subjectivity, perspective and footing in 50 co-constructions
that were used in 38 spontaneous Japanese conversations.
I define co-construction
as the creation of a relative clause, clause, sentence, complex sentence, etc. by two or
moreparticipants.Footingreferstothepositionoralignmentofthespeakerwhoutters
an utterance (Goffman 1981). I distinguish between two types of footing, ­information
presenter vs. supporting participant, based on the functions of the utterances used
in the co-construction. The example in (1) is from an invitation telephone conversation
in which B invites A to come out drinking. I refer to the two utterances that make up the
co-construction as the former utterance (58A) and latter utterance (59B), ut-
tered by the former speaker (A) and the latter speaker (B), respectively.
.  This chapter is an extended version of Szatrowski (2003) and includes some new conclusions.
.  The data consist of 29 examples from 22 telephone conversations and 21 examples from 16
face-to-face conversations. I summarize the data in Table A in the appendix, including the dis-
tribution among the five types discussed in this chapter.
.  The former utterance and latter utterance may consist of a multiple of utterances. In the ex-
amples in this chapter, I indicate the former utterance(s) with →, and the latter utterance(s)
with ⇒. I indicate the forms in the co-construction related to perspective with an underline (  )
and subjective predicates with a dotted underline (   ). Single underlines relate to the former
speaker, and double underlines to the latter speaker. Finally, features related to the former speak-
er’s footing are indicated with shading and an underline (  ), and the latter speaker’s footing
with shading (  ). In the English translations of the Japanese examples I use ( ) for explanatory
material or words in the translation that do not directly reflect the Japanese but are necessary in
English. Thus, if the subject ‘(I)’ appears in parentheses in the English translation, the subject is
understood but not explicit in the Japanese version. An explanation of the abbreviations used in
the word-for-word gloss and the transcription conventions are given in the Appendix.
314	 Polly Szatrowski
	 (1)	 TELEPHONE: Invitation (2 Friends)
→58A	 まあ、
行ってもいい//んだけども、
 <Information presentation>
	 Maa, itte mo ii //n da kedomo,
	 well go-ger even good nom cop-ip but
	 Well, it’s that (it)’s okay if (I) go, but
⇒59B	 また行くのはめんどく
さい？ <Information request>
	 Mata iku no wa mendokusai?
	 again go-ip nom top bother
	 Is going (towards me) again a bother?  (Szatrowski 1993: Data 16)
A indicates her hesitation to accept B’s invitation in 58A with the deictic verb iku ‘go
(away from the speaker)’ and the subjective adjective ii ‘good’ speaking on the footing
of an information presenter. B overlaps 58A and adds the main clause to A’s subordinate
clause in 59B. B’s use of the deictic verb iku ‘go (away from the speaker)’ instead of kuru
‘come (in the direction of the speaker)’ indicates that she is speaking from the former
speaker A’s perspective, and the subjective adjective mendokusai ‘(is) a bother’ relates
to information in A’s territory of information. However, 59B ends with rising intona-
tion which indicates that B is speaking on her own footing as a supporting participant.
	 This chapter addresses the following question: (1) On whose footing are co-
­
constructions created? and (2) How does this relate to previous studies of subjectiv-
ity, person restriction and perspective in Japanese? I demonstrate how latter speakers
can violate person restriction and the empathy hierarchy in co-constructions because
they can speak on the former speaker’s footing or take the former speaker’s perspective
while speaking from their own footing when completing co-constructions.
2.	 Previous research
Research on person restriction and participant status by grammarians and conver-
sation analysts in Japanese sentences produced by one speaker or one writer is rele-
vant to the present research on co-construction. Grammarians have accounted for per-
son restriction, and perspective in deictic verbs based on predicate type (Teramura
1973, 1982; Masuoka 1992, 1997; Iwasaki 1993; and others), evidentiality (Aoki 1986),
psychological position (Morita 1968, 1977), Siten (Perspective) Hierarchy and Speech
Act Empathy Hierarchy (Kuno 1987), territory of information (Kamio 1990), perspec-
tive in discourse (Kuroda 1973; Kinsui 1989; Azuma 1992; Kudo 1995; Masuoka 1997;
Takubo 2000; Minami 2002; and others), and commitment and coincidence of subjects
in the multiple levels of Japanese sentence structure (Minami 1993, 2002).
	 Subjectivity refers to the expression of a person’s inner subjective world (Masu­oka
1997: 1). The following Japanese subjective predicates have person restriction ­because
they do not allow second- and third-person subjects with dantee ‘declarative (non-
­
evidential)’ forms.
	 Subjectivity, perspective and footing 315
1.	 Adjectivals/nominals of emotion [kanasii ‘(I) am sad,’ natukasii ‘(I) am homesick,’
yuukai da ‘(it) is pleasant (to me)’]
2.	 Predicates expressing desires/wishes [X-sitai ‘(I) want to do X,’ X-site hosii ‘(I) want
to have (you) do X’]
3.	 Sensation verbs [hirihiri-suru ‘(I) have a tingling pain,’ zokuzoku-suru ‘(I) feel a
chill’]
4.	 Sensory perception verbs [mieru ‘(I) can see (it); (it) is visible (to me) ,’ kikoeru ‘(I)
can hear (it); (it) is audible (to me)’]
5.	 Cognition verbs [wakaru ‘(I) understand; (it) is understandable (to me)’]
6.	 Expressions of will [X-siyoo to omou ‘(I) think that I will do X’]
7.	 Thinking verbs [omou ‘(I) think . . .,’ kangaeru ‘(I) think . . .,’ kanziru ‘(I) feel . . .’] 	
(Teramura 1973, 1982; Iwasaki 1993, Masuoka 1997; translation by Szatrowski)
The use of the verb ikoo ‘(I) guess (I will) go’ as an expression of will is ungrammatical
with a third-person subject as shown in (2).
	 (2)	 [僕が/＊ジョンが]行こ
う。
[Boku ga/ *Zyon ga] ikoo.
[I sub John sub go-tent
[I/*John] guesses (I/he will) go.  (Iwasaki 1993: 13)
A third-person subject is ungrammatical with the declarative form of the verb omou ‘(I)
think’ as shown in (3).
	 (3)	 その考えが間違っていると
［私は／＊花子は］
思う。
Sono kangae ga matigatte iru to [watasi wa/ *Hanako wa] omou.
that thought sub become wrong-pf-ip q [I top Hanako top think-ip
[I/*Hanako] think(s) that that (way of) thinking is wrong.  (Masuoka 1997: 8;
translation by Szatrowski)
	 Minami (1993, 2002: 467) analyzes person restriction in relation to the hierarchical
model of Japanese sentence structure given in Figure 1.
He notes that person restric-
tion begins applying in level C subordinate clauses as in (4), where it is not possible to
use a second or third-person subject in the level C ga ‘but; and’ clause.
	 (4)	 
*君はうれしいが、
私も喜んでいる。
*Kimi wa uresii ga, watasi mo yorokonde iru.
you top glad-ip but/and I too become happy-pf-ip
You are happy and I too am pleased.
.  Minami (1964, 1974, 1993, 1997) proposed a model for Japanese sentence structure made up
of four levels based on the occurrence of non-predicate components and predicate elements in
the internal structure of subordinate clauses. See Szatrowski (2002a) for an analysis of Japanese
co-constructions in terms of Minami’s four levels.
316	 Polly Szatrowski
In contrast, person restriction does not apply in the A and B inner levels. For example,
thepersonrestrictionin(4)doesnotapplyinlevelBsubordinateclausesasshownin(5).
	 (5)	 君がうれしければ、
私も喜んでいる。
Kimi ga uresikereba, watasi mo yorokonde iru.
you sub glad-prov I too become happy-pf-ip
If you are happy, I too am pleased.
predicate
elements
-mai, daroo (tent),
-u/-yoo (cohort)
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
+
+
+
+
−
-ta/da tense/aspect
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
+
+
−
−
+
−
−
−
−
+
+
+
+
−
-nai (neg)
−
−
−
−
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
−
−
−
+
+
+
+
+
-masu (distal)
−
−
−
−
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
−
(+)
−
+
+
+
+
+
Polite form
+
+
+
−
+
+
+
+
−
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
A
B
C
Giving/receivingV.
+
+
+
−
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
-(r)areru (pass)
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
-(s)aseru (caus)
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
Verb
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
non-predicate
components
NP o (DO)
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
NP ni (IO)
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
NP + case particle
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
State adverb
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
Degree adverb
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
A level clause
+
+
+
(+)
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
NP ga (subject)
−
−
−
−
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
Place modifier
−
−
−
−
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
Time modifier
−
−
−
−
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
tonikaku ‘anyway’,
yahari ‘after all’
−
−
−
−
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
Evaluative modifier
−
−
−
−
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
B level clause
−
−
−
−
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
NP wa (topic)
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
(+)
–
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
+
+
+
+
+
tabun ‘probably’,
masaka ‘no way’
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
+
+
+
+
+
C level clause
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
+
+
+
+
+
syntactic
elements
clauses
A	
-nagara
‘while’
	
-tutu
‘while’
	
-te
1
GER
(manner)
	
repetition
of
V-stem
B	
-te
2
‘and’
(sequence)
	
to
‘when’
	
-nagara
‘although’
	
node
‘because’
	
noni
‘although’
	
-ba
‘if
’
	
-tara
‘if
’
	
nara
‘if
’
	
-te
3
‘and’
(reason)
	
V-stem
	
-zuni
‘without’
	
-naide
‘without’
C	ga
‘but’
	
kara
‘because’
	
keredo
‘but’
	
si
‘and’
	
-te
4
GER
Note:I have indicated the three levelsA,B,and C with bold lines in this table.Minami divides sentences into
the non-predicate components and predicate elements given across the top of the table.He determined the
level for each of the different components and elements based on their possible occurrence in the clauses
given on the left.A + sign indicates that a component or element can occur,and a – sign that it cannot.
Figure 1.  Components and elements of subordinate clauses (Minami 1964: 85; Minami
1993: 96–7)
	 Subjectivity, perspective and footing 317
	 Previous research has shown that person restriction varies depending on the type of
discourse. In particular, it is possible to use the above subjective predicate forms with a
third-person subject in stories and narratives, because they allow for a transfer of per-
spective (Kuroda 1973; Azuma 1992; Kudo 1995; Masuoka 1997; Minami 2002).
	 Minami (1993, 2002, 2003) analyzes person restriction in terms of kan’yo ‘commit-
ment’ which refers to
 . . . the transmitting stance whereby (the behavior, thoughts, feelings, etc. of) the trans-
mitting subject [speaker/writer] is (are) treated as having some kind of direct con-
nection with the content per se of (an aspect of) a given discourse. The transmitting
subject [speaker/writer] treats a given content as pertaining to the so-called “inner
world.”   (Minami 2003: 134; translation by Szatrowski)
In contrast to this kan’yo ‘commitment’ stance, where the speaker/writer has an active
will to connect directly with the content of the utterance much in the way of an illocu-
tionary speech act (Searle 1969; Austin 1970), hikan’yo (bookan) ‘non-commitment
(spectator’s/onlooker’s view)’ refers to a stance where the speaker/writer describes
things objectively without making an active commitment to the content of the utter-
ance (Minami 1993: 215–16).
	 Minami (2002) indicates that there is a need to modify the previous approach to-
wards person restriction, in order to take into account the fact that there is a syutai
‘subject’ associated with each of the A (zitai syutai ‘situation subject’), B (nintee syutai
‘recognition subject’), C (taido syutai ‘attitude subject’) and D (dentatu syutai ‘transmit-
ting subject’) levels in his hierarchical model of sentence structure.
He describes these
subjects as follows (Minami 2002: 468–9, personal communication). In Level A, the
level relating to content of the proposition of a sentence (that is, actions and states), the
situation subject includes the actor/agent, patient, experiencer, giver, receiver, subject
of perception, subject of emotion, the person/thing that possesses a general or tempo-
rary characteristic or state, etc. In Level B, the recognition subject makes judgments
related to affirmation/negation, realis/irrealis, particularity/ generality, and recogniz-
es connections between the situation and various conditions, time, place, etc. Level
C relates to the attitude towards the content recognized in Level B, and the subject of
attitude/subjectivity is concerned with commitment/non-commitment, presentation/
non-presentation of a given content as topic, and subjective attitude (that is, assertion,
desire, conjecture, etc.) towards a given content. Finally, in Level D, the transmitting
subject is concerned with the stance of the sender and receiver of information vis-à-vis
other participants in the context of linguistic communication.
It is necessary to correct the view of person restriction as being “related to whether
or not the self [speaker/writer] coincides with the subject of the adjective.” In other
.  The ( ) in this translation and the next translation reflect the parentheses in the original. I in-
dicate my own interpretation in brackets [ ].
.  It is important to note that Minami’s term syutai ‘subject’ does not mean grammatical subject
but refers to subject in a much broader sense (Dr. Fujio Minami, personal communication).
318	 Polly Szatrowski
words, it should be stated “the restriction phenomenon occurs when 1) the situation
subject (in this case the subject of the feeling being expressed by a given feeling [sub-
jective] adjective) coincides with the recognition subject and the attitude subject, and
2) the attitude subject has chosen the commitment feature.” Even if the situation sub-
ject, recognition subject and attitude subject coincide, it is not possible to use the final
iikiri ‘truncated’
form to express non-commitment.  (Minami 2002: 469; translation
by Szatrowski)
Minami (2002: 470) points out that it is possible to use soodan-sitai ‘(I) want to consult’
in the discourse in (6) because the situation subject of this verb (a patient who wants to
consultabouttreatment)coincideswithneithertherecognitionnortheattitudesubject.
In this case, the recognition subject and the attitude subject are both the person who
the patient will consult, that is, the psychiatrist who is the writer of this discourse.
	 (6)	 統合失調症は）
原因は脳内の神経伝達物質の異常など多くの因子が考えられている
が、
はっきりわかっていない。
疲れやストレスが引き金になるこ
ともある。
最近は軽症
化の傾向にあり、
通院しながら仕事を続けている人も多い。
薬の研究も進んでいる。
適切な治療が受けられるよう、
専門医に相談したい。
（
「こころ
元気ですか」
朝日新聞二○○二年九月七日朝刊、
執筆荘司恵子
〈精神科医〉
）
(Toogoo sittyoosyoo wa) genin wa noonai no sinkee
schizophrenia top cause top brain internal con nerve
dentatu bussitu no izyoo nado ooku no insi ga
transmission matter con abnormality etc. many con factor sub
kangaerarete iru ga, hakkiri wakatte inai. Tukare ya
think-pas-pf-ip but clearly understand-neg-pf-ip fatigue and
sutoresu ga hikigane ni naru koto mo aru.
stress sub trigger goal become nom also exist-ip
Saikin wa keesyooka no keekoo ni ari,
recently top light con trend in exist-stem
tuuin-sinagara sigoto o tuzukete iru hito mo
go to hospital-while work do continue-prog-ip people also
ooi. Kusuri no kenkyuu mo susunde iru.
are many-ip medicine con research also advance-prog-ip
.  Minami uses the iikiri ‘truncated’ form here to refer to sentence forms such as Boku wa ka‑
nasii ‘I am sad’ which do not have any modal forms (daroo ‘probably,’ wake da ‘it it the case that,’
kamosirenai ‘maybe,’ etc.) added on to the end (Dr. Fujio Minami, personal communication).
.  I assume that the recognition subject and the attitude subject are the psychiatrist because this
passage is written by a psychiatrist. Although the situation subject is not expressed explicitly, I
assume it is the patient and not the psychiatrist because patients and not psychiatrists are usu-
ally the ones who consult with specialized physicians. This may also relate to a common struc-
ture in Japanese spoken discourse and letters (Hayashi 1960: 120, Hayashi, Nomoto & Minami
1987: 21–2; Szatrowski 1993, 1997a), in particular, written medical consultation discourse (Onu-
ma 2001), where there is an attempt to pay attention to interpersonal relations and connect with
the reader (in the case of example (6) a potential psychiatric patient) at the end of the discourse.
	 Subjectivity, perspective and footing 319
Tekisetu na tiryoo ga ukerareru yoo,
proper cop treatment sub receive-pas-ip in order to
senmoni ni soodan-sitai.
specialized physician goal consult-des-ip
(“Kokoro genki desu ka” Asahi Sinbun 2002.9.7 tyookan, sippitu Syoozi Rieko
<Seesinkai>)
The cause (of schizophrenia) is thought to be a multiple of factors (related to)
abnormalities in the nerve transmitting matter in the brain, etc., but it is not
exactly clear. There are also cases where fatigue and stress set it off. Recently
cases tend to be light, and there are many people who continue working while
being treated. Research on medicine is advancing. (I=patient) want to con-
sult
a specialized physician in order to receive proper treatment. (“Is (your)
heart healthy?” Asahi Newspaper 9/7/2002 morning paper, author Rieko
Shoji <Psychiatrist>) (Minami 2002: 469; translation and underline by Sza-
trowski)
	 Morita (1968, 1977) and Kuno (1978, 1987) have analyzed perspective in the Jap-
anese deictic verbs of coming and going. Based on a survey of 55 authors, Mori-
ta (1968: 79,1977) demonstrated that uses of the deictic verbs iku ‘go (away from the
speaker)’ and kuru ‘come (towards the speaker)’ relate to differences in the (1) goal of
the motion, (2) position of the speaker in relation to the goal of the motion, (3) person
(first, second, third) of the subject moving to the place or goal, and (4) speaker’s per-
ception of when the action occurred. He claims that the typical combinations of kotira
e + kuru ‘come here’, atira e + iku ‘go over there’ relate to the speaker’s recognition of
his/her actual position, but both deictic verbs may be possible with each location goal
when the speaker’s position is transferred psychologically.
	 Kuno (1978: 254) demonstrated that the deictic verb iku ‘go (away from the speak-
er)’ is not possible in (7) because E (Taroo or X)>Speaker violates the Perspective Hier-
archy which claims that the speaker should empathize more with the speaker than with
others.10
	 (7)	 太郎が昨日、
ここに
［来た/*行った］
。
Taroo ga kinoo, koko ni [kita/ *itta].
Taro sub yesterday here to [come-p go-p
‘Yesterday Taro [came (towards the speaker)/*went (away from the speaker)]
here.’
  .  Masuoka (in press) suggests that the meaning of the -tai form has been extended to mean
beki da ‘should’. In this interpretation, soodan-sitai would mean ‘(one) should consult’. However,
in the passage in (6) the use of beki da ‘should’ would be too strong, and might discourage pa-
tients from consulting. I suggest that the writer (a psychiatrist) in (6) shows her concern by tak-
ing the perspective of the patient in a way similar to (1) discussed with context in (19).
10.  E stands for Empathy.
320	 Polly Szatrowski
	 Previous research on co-construction in natural conversation has focused on in-
formation/personal territory, participant status/footing, and the structure of and pro-
jectability in co-constructions (Ono & Yoshida 1996; Antaki, Diaz & Collins 1996; Sza-
trowski 1996, 2000a, 2002a). Ono & Yoshida (1996) claimed that co-construction is
rare in Japanese because (1) it is rude to end another participant’s utterances, and (2)
there is a pragmatic constraint underlying Japanese behavior such that one should not
discuss information related to another’s territory of information (Kamio 1990), or per-
sonal territory which includes his/her “desires, wishes, will, emotions, perceptions, etc.”
(Suzuki 1989: 58).
	 Antaki, Diaz & Collins (1996) distinguished three participant footings based on Goff-
man (1981) and Levinson (1988) in an analysis of English co-constructions. 1) As an
“author,” the speaker is physically present, acts for him/herself, and takes responsibil-
ity for the form and motive of his/her utterances. 2) As a “relayer,” the speaker is physi-
cally present, but only relays another’s utterances, and does not take responsibility for
the form or motive of those utterances. 3) As a  “spokesperson,” the speaker joins other
speakers in taking responsibility for the forms and motivation behind the utterances.
	 Szatrowski (1996) demonstrated that speakers use co-construction in Japanese to
align with other participants. In conflict situations, single speakers tended to complete
their utterances, and cut off other speaker’s utterances rather than help to co-construct
them (Szatrowski 1996). Szatrowski (2000a) showed that co-participants use the speak-
er’s iconic gestures to anticipate the speaker’s intentions and co-construct utterances.
Szatrowski (2002a) found that there was a tendency to co-construct Minami’s (1964,
1974, 1993, 1997) inner levels more than the outer levels in co-constructions of simple
sentences, and this tendency was reversed in co-constructions of complex sentences.
These results suggest that semantic/ pragmatic projectability may be stronger than syn-
tactic projectability in Japanese co-constructions.
	 In the present study, I will apply Antaki, Diaz & Collins’ (1996) notion of footing
in an investigation of previous grammarians’ claims about Japanese person restriction,
subjectivity, and perspective in co-constructions from natural conversations. Co-con-
structions are an interesting area to investigate the grammar–pragmatics interface be-
cause they show how speakers construct meaning in real time through their interaction.
3.	 Analysis
In my analysis, I use the term wadan ‘stage’ to refer to a unit (utterance or sequence
of utterances) produced through the interaction among conversational participants.11
Wadan ‘stages’ are identified by topic related to participants’ goals, distribution of utter-
11.  This analysis is largely translated into English from Szatrowski (2003) with additions, and
all examples, except (20), are from that paper. I provide romanization, word-for-word glosses,
and translations for all of the the examples in this chapter.
	 Subjectivity, perspective and footing 321
ance functions, and prosodic features (Szatrowski 1991, 1993).12
In conversations
where the goals of the participants are set, for example, invitations where the goal of the
inviter is to invite and the goal of the invitee to answer, wadan can be identified at places
where the participants’ goals change, that is, where there is a change in the content from
the invitation to the answer, and vice versa (Szatrowski 1991, 1993). In casual conver-
sation, wadan tend to coincide with topical units. In retellings of the story of an anima-
tion, wadan units coincided with movements of characters to a new scene (Szatrowski
2002b). Prosodic features for identifying wadan include lengthening, rhythmic repeti-
tion (Szatrowski 1997b), and pause (Szatrowski 2000b).
	 Table 1 indicates the distribution of utterance functions used in wadan when the par-
ticipants speak on the footing of an information presenter (left side) and a supporting
participant (right side). The information presenter(s) used the utterance functions on
the left side and the supporting participants used the utterance functions on the right
side of Table 1.Wadan change when the participants change their footing by using utter-
ance functions on the opposite side of Table 1.13
The co-constructed utterances in my
data consisted of an utterance function marked with an asterisk from the left side and
one from the right side of this table. For example, the co-construction (58A+59B) in (1)
is a combination of an <Information presentation> and an <Information request>.14
12.  Sakuma (1987) originally proposed the wadan unit to refer to a ‘grammatico-semantic para-
graph’ in spoken discourse that is similar to a bundan ‘grammatico-semantic paragraph’ in writ-
ten discourse. This differs from my definition that takes into account the goals of the conversa-
tional participants and uses utterance functions for identification.
13.  See Szatrowski (1991, 1993) for more information on how wadan are co-constructed, in
particular in invitation conversations.
14.  I coded the utterance functions indicated in < > in the examples in this paper, and checked
my judgements with at least one Japanese informant.
Table 1.  Distribution of utterance functions in wadan
Information presenter Supporting participant
Attention requests
*Discourse markers
*Information presentation
*Expressions of will
Agreement requests
Directives
Invitations
Repeat requests
Repeats
Relation building, etiquette
Attention displays (j, k)
  j.	 Agreement
  k.	Self-directed
Discourse markers
*Information requests
Repeat requests
Repeats
Relation building, etiquette
Attention displays (a–i)
a.	 Continuer
b.	 Recognition
*c.	 Confirmation
d.	 Interest
e.	 Emotion
*f.	 Sympathy (Agreement)
*g.	 Comment
h.	 Negating
i.	 Concluding
322	 Polly Szatrowski
	 In my analysis, I first divided the co-constructions into two types: I) Co-construc-
tions in which participants align together in addressing other participants and II) Co-
constructions that are not addressed to other participants. Then, I investigated person
restriction in relation to the subjectivity, perspective and footing in each of these types
of co-construction. I use the term subjectivity to refer to a subjective predicate that
expresses an internal subjective state, perspective to refer to the psychological pos-
ition of speakers expressed by deictic verbs (iku ‘go’, kuru ‘come’), honorifics, pronouns,
etc., and footing to refer to the participant status of a speaker based on his/her use of
utterance functions and the addressee of the utterance in the interaction.
3.1	
Co-constructions in which participants align together in addressing
other participants
Co-constructions in which participants aligned together in addressing other partici-
pants were used in conversations with three or more participants. (8) is taken from a
company meeting where ten company employees are planning for an upcoming soft-
ware exhibition. In a discussion of what to do with visitors’ calling cards, C and B align
togethertosupporttheiropinionthattheydonotneedtoprepareacallingcardbox,and
oppose two other participants who have proposed that they have a calling card box.15
	 (8)	 FACE-TO-FACE: Company Meeting (11 participants)
→65C	 受付の人がこ
う言ってもらって、
 <Information presentation>
	 Uketuke no hito ga koo itte moratte,
	 reception cop person sub like this say-ger receive-ger
	 Having the receptionist say (it) in this way, and
⇒66B	 もらって→、
 <Information presentation>
	 moratte→,
	 receive-ger
	 having (that), and
⇒67B	 //しまっておいたらいけないんですか？ <Information request>
	 //simatte oitara
	 //put away-ger place-cond
	 ikenai n desu ka?
	 go-pot-neg nom cop-dis-ip qp
	
//putting (the calling card) away for later, is it that (that) won’t
do?  (Kuwabara 1996: 10–11)
15.  In all of the examples except (1) and (14) where the former utterance is a C level subordin-
ate clause (Minami 1964, 1974, 1993, 1997), the function of the former utterance(s) is somewhat
vague or indeterminate especially when the utterance is taken out of context. I indicate the utter-
ance functions for the former utterance(s) taking into account the conversation up through the
co-construction.
	 Subjectivity, perspective and footing 323
In (9) H and M align together to tell another participant(s) about a common experi-
ence.
	 (9)	 FACE-TO-FACE: Chatting (Friends)
→1H	 あれだってヘルプ終わってからさ <Information presentation>
	 Are datte Herupu owatte kara sa
	 that because “Help” end-ger after fp
	 That because after “Help” (was) over, you know
→2H	 お茶して帰ろうかってゆってさ <Information presentation>
	 otya-site kaeroo ka tte yutte sa
	 have tea-ger go home-cons qp q say-ger fp
	 (we) said shall we have tea and go home, and you know
  3M	 そうそうそう。
 <Agreement>
	 Soo soo soo.
	 Right right right.
⇒4M	 ね、
なんか夜中になっちゃったのよね <Agreement+Info presentation>
	 Ne, nanka yonaka ni nattyatta no yo ne
	 vp somehow mid-night goal become+end up-p nom fp fp
	
Right, somehow it’s that it ended up becoming the middle of the
night I tell you, you know. (Ono & Yoshida 1996: 123; English transla-
tion, shading, and utterance functions by Szatrowski)
In the examples in (8) and (9), the former and latter speaker of the co-construction
speak on the footing of a spokesperson joining together in taking the responsibility
for the forms and motivation behind their utterances (Antaki, Diaz & Collins 1996).
In these examples, either speaker can say the entire co-construction without violating
person restriction, subjectivity, or perspective.
3.2	 Co-constructions that are not addressed to other participants
I divided co-constructions that were not addressed to other participants into the fol-
lowing two types.
(a)	
Co-constructions in which the latter speaker completes the co-construction on
the former speaker’s footing
(b–d)	
Co-constructions in which the latter speaker completes the co-construction on
his/her own footing
3.2.1	Co-constructions in which the latter speaker completes
the co-construction on the former speaker’s footing
In co-constructions where the latter speaker completes the co-construction on the
former speaker’s footing, the latter speaker uses an utterance function on the former
speaker’s side of Table 1, without changing the wadan ‘stage.’ In particular, I found
examples where the latter speaker changed footing temporarily from a supporting
324	 Polly Szatrowski
­
participant to an information presenter when uttering the latter utterance. In these
cases the latter speaker was responsible for neither the motivation nor the form of the
utterance. Following Szatrowski (2000a), I refer to the footing of this speaker as a waki
no zyoohoo teekyoosya ‘assistant information presenter.’16
As an assistant infor-
mation presenter the speaker is not responsible for the motivation or form of the utter-
ance. In contrast, there were no examples in my data where the former speaker was a
supporting participant and the latter speaker changed footing temporarily from an in-
formation presenter to a supporting participant when uttering the latter utterance.
	 In (10), from a television interview program, guest K is telling interviewer T about
how he rode his bicycle across Tokyo when he was a little boy.
	 (10)	 FACE-TO-FACE: TV Interview (T= interviewer, K= guest)
→130K	 で、
あまりにも嬉しく
て、
 <Information presentation>
	 de, amari ni mo uresikute,
	 and so happy-ger
	 and, (I was) so happy, and
→131K	 じゃあ，
どっかそっちの親父の会社のほうまで、
	 zyaa, dokka sotti no oyazi no <Information
	 then somewhere that place con dad gen presentation>
	 kaisya no hoo made,
	 company con direction as far as
	 Well then, somewhere, as far as my dad’s company,
⇒132T	 行っちゃおう。
 <<Expression of will>>
	 ittyaou.
	 go+end up-tent
	
(I=K) guess (I)’ll end up going.  (Sakuma, Sugito, & Hanzawa
1997: Data 30; English translation, underline, and utterance func-
tions by Szatrowski)
T’s use of ittyaou ‘(I=K) guess (I)’ll end up going’ in 132T violates person restriction in
subjective predicates because although it requires a first-person subject, the subject is
K, not the speaker T. T expresses K’s will in the latter utterance of the co-construction.
It is interesting to note that K is quoting his feeling as a boy in 131K, and T completes
the co-construction with a quick excited tone as if becoming K as a boy. Quotations of
past feelings may allow violations of person restriction. Applying Minami’s (2002) an-
alysis of multiple levels of subject, it may be that quotation has the status of an inner lev-
el where person restriction does not apply.
	 In (11) H and S are discussing an acquaintance who is having an affair with some-
one’s wife. H is critical of the man because he does not stop the affair.
16.  I indicate utterance functions on the other participant’s footing in << >> in the examples.
	 Subjectivity, perspective and footing 325
	 (11)	 FACE-TO-FACE: Chatting (2 Friends)
→1H	 そうゆう中途半端な感じで、
	 Soo yuu tyuuto hanpa na kanzi de,
	 that kind halfway cop feeling with
	 With that kind of a halfway feeling,
→2H	 こ
うやっちゃったっていうのが僕は－－、
 <Information presentation>
	 koo yattyatta tte iu no ga boku wa::,
	 this way do+end up-p q say-ip nom sub I top
	 (his) ending up doing (things) like this, I, for one,
⇒3S	 いけないと思う。
 <<Information presentation>>
	 ikenai to omou.
	 go-pot-neg q think-ip
	
think (it) is wrong.  (Ono & Yoshida 1996: 125; Suzuki 1998: 77–8;
English translation, underline, utterance functions by Szatrowski)
3S should be ungrammatical because S uses the verb omou ‘(I) think’ (which requires
a first-person subject) to refer to what H thinks [cf. (3)]. While the former speaker H
could have said 1H-2H-3S in a single utterance, it is not possible for the latter speaker
S to do so.
	 Example (12) is from a telephone conversation where O is talking about her plans to
study at an American university. The latter utterance of the co-construction in 3J indi-
cates that O will decide to go to the first university that accepts her. 3J violates person
restriction because the first-person subject (unexpressed) of 3J is O not the speaker J.
	 (12)	 TELEPHONE: Chatting (two friends)
→1O	 それが来たら <Information presentation>
	 Sore ga kitara
	 that sub come-cond
	 When that (acceptance letter) comes
→2O	 も
うねえ→、
も//う、
 <Information presentation>
	 moo nee→, mo//o,
	 already/oh fp already/oh
	 oh, you know, oh
⇒3J	 それに決めちゃう→。
 <<Expression of will>>
	 sore ni kimetyau→.
	 that goal decide+end up-ip
	 (I=O) will end up deciding on that (university).
	 The co-construction in (13) does not violate person restriction because it is about a
third person T.
326	 Polly Szatrowski
	 (13)	 FACE-TO-FACE: Chatting (Friends)
→1R	 Ｔさんはなんかディシジョンみたいのをいつも人に
 <Information presentation>
	 T-san wa nanka d(e)isizyon mitai no o itumo hito ni
	 T-Mr. top somehow decision like nom do always people to
	 Mr. T somehow things like decisions, always to people (others)
⇒2H	 委ねる <<Information presentation>>
	 yudaneru
	 entrust-ip
	
(he/she) entrusts.  (Ono & Yoshida 1996: 118; English translation,
underline, utterance functions by Szatrowski)
	 In (10)–(12), the former speaker can say the entire co-constructed utterance, while
the latter speaker cannot. In cases like (13) where the co-construction relates to a third
person about whom both the former and latter speaker share information, either the
former or the latter speaker can say both parts of the co-construction.
3.2.2	Co-constructions in which the latter speaker completes the co-construc
‑
tion on his/her own footing
In co-constructions where the latter speaker completes the co-construction on his/her
own footing, he/she uses utterance functions from the side of Table 1 that correspond
with his/her footing. If the latter speaker is a supporting participant he/she uses one of
the utterance functions on the right, and if he/she is an information presenter, he/she
uses one of the utterance functions on the left. The latter speaker completes the co-con-
struction on his/her own footing as a supporting participant in (14)–(18) and as an in-
formation presenter in (20).
	 In (14)–(18) the latter speaker is a supporting participant and completes the co-con-
struction on his/her footing using a <Comment> (14), <Confirmation/Information
Request> (15), <Confirmation> (16), and an <Information request> (17)–(18), re-
spectively. In (14), Q is refusing an invitation to go to Hawaii with N.
	 (14)	 TELEPHONE: Invitation (two friends)
→43Q	 ま，
行きたいけどねえ－？ <Information presentation>
	 Ma, ikitai kedo nee:?
	 well go-DES but fp
	 Well, (I) want to go but, you know.
  44N	 う－ん。
 <Continuer/Sympathy (Agreement)>
	 U:n.
	 Uh hu:h.
⇒45N	 この前行ったばかりだしね？それにねえ
？ <Comment>
	 kono mae itta bakari da si ne? sore ni nee?
	 this before go-p just cop-ip and fp in addition fp
	
(you) just went recently didn’t you. in addition, isn’t it?  (Szatrowski
1993: Data 32)
	 Subjectivity, perspective and footing 327
In (14), the former speaker Q can say both parts of the co-construction, but the latter
speaker N cannot because the subjective predicate ikitai ‘(I) want to go’ in the former
utterance 43Q requires a first-person subject.17
As Minami (1993, 2002) pointed out,
person restriction applies to subjective predicates in C level subordinate clauses, such
as the kedo ‘but’ clause in 43Q.
	 In (15), J and N are talking about how B knows about good restaurants.
	 (15)	 TELEPHONE: Chatting (two friends)
→1J	 Ｂさんね、
	 B-san ne:,
	 B-Mr. fp
	 Mr. B, you know,
  2N	 ええ。
 <Continuer>
	 Ee.
	 Yes.
→3J	 割とそういうのをね？ <Information presentation>
	 wari to soo iu no o ne?
	 relatively that kind nom do fp
	 relatively those kinds of things, you know?
⇒4N	 //知ってるでしょ
う
？ <Confirmation/Information Request>
	 //sitte ru desyoo?
	 get to know-pf-ip tag
	 //(he) knows, doesn’t he?
  5J	 知ってる。
 <Information presentation>
	 sitte ru.
	 get to know-pf-ip
	 (he) knows.
  6J	 うん。
知ってるんだよ。
 <Information presentation>
	 Un. Sitte ru n da yo.
	 yeah get to know-pf-ip nom cop-ip fp
	 Yeah. It’s that (he) knows, I tell you.
17.  The use of U:n ‘Uh hu:h’ as a <Continuer/Sympathy(Agreement)> in 44N in (14) is uttered
on the footing of the supporting participant. In my analysis the use of this back channel utter-
ance did not influence my decision concerning whether or not the former speaker could say
both parts of the co-construction, because I did not include this utterance in the co-construc-
tion. It is interesting to note however, that in these examples, it might be possible for the former
speaker to include the U:n ‘Uh hu:h’ in uttering both parts of the co-construction. In that case
the function would be a <Self-directed Attention Display> rather than a <Continuer/Sympathy
(Agreement)>. I have observed speakers using <Self-directed Attention Displays> in this way
when their interlocutors did not respond.
328	 Polly Szatrowski
In (14) only the former and in (15) either the former or the latter speaker can say both
parts of the co-construction. However, if the former speaker says the entire co-con-
struction the function of the latter utterance changes from a <Comment>, <Confirm-
ation/Information Request> to an <Information Presentation/Agreement Request>
(Szatrowski 1994). This is because the former speaker would present the information
on the footing of an information presenter, thus suggesting that he/she has more infor-
mation about the content of the utterance.
	 In (16) R is refusing N’s invitation to attend a tea ceremony.
	 (16)	 TELEPHONE: Invitation (R= aunt, N= niece)
→49R	 だから、
納まる所に、
ほら、
納め//られないからねえ。
 <Discourse Marker
	 Dakara, osamaru tokoro ni, hora, + Info. presentation>
	 so put away-ip place in you know
	 osame//rarenai kara nee.
	 put away-pot-neg-ip so fp
	
So, in the places where (they should be) put, you know, (I) can’t store
(things) so, you know.
  50N	 あ－あ。
 <Recognition>
	 A:a.
	 O:h.
⇒51N	 じゃあ、
当分は忙しいわけだ。
 <Discourse Marker+Confirmation>
	 Zyaa, toobun wa isogasii wake da.
	 then a while top busy-ip nom cop-ip
	
Then (in that case), it’s that (you) will be busy for a while, at
least.  (Szatrowski 1993:Data 18)
In (17) F is talking about where she/he went yesterday.
	 (17)	 FACE-TO-FACE: Chatting (Formal)
→1F	 きのうちょっと用があって鎌倉へ <Information presentation>
	 Kinoo tyotto yoo ga atte Kamakura e
	 Yesterday just business sub have-ger Kamakura to
	
Yesterday (I) just had some business (to take care of) and to
­
Kamakura
  2G	 あ、
 <Recognition>
	 A,
	 Oh,
⇒3G	 おいでになったんですか。
 <Information request>
	 oide ni natta n desu ka.
	 go-hon-p nom cop-dis-ip qp
	
is it that (you) went (honorific) (there)?’  (Mizutani 1993: 6; English
translation, underline, shading, utterance functions by Szatrowski)
Neither the former nor the latter speaker can say both parts of the co-construction in
	 Subjectivity, perspective and footing 329
(16) and (17). The former speaker F cannot, because the latter utterance contains an
honorific and the interrogative particle ka.
	 In (18), a telephone conversation from the early 1980’s, N has just asked J what he
predicts will happen to printers as computers become more transportable. In 2N, N
completes J’s utterance in 1J by suggesting that the printers will be separate from the
computers.18
	 (18)	 TELEPHONE: Chatting (2 Friends)
→1J	 プリントの出力器は－、
 <Information presentation>
	 Purinto no syuturyokuki wa:,
	 print con output machine top
	 As for the printer(s),
⇒2N	 別にする
？ <Information request>
	 betu ni suru?
	 separate goal make-ip
	 (they) will be separate?
  3J	 どこにもあるの。
 <Information presentation>
	 doko ni mo aru no.
	 everywhere exist-ip nom
	 it’s that (they) will be everywhere.
The latter utterances in (16) <Confirmation>, and (17)–(18) <Information Requests>
are all on the latter speaker’s footing, but the latter speaker can say both parts of the co-
construction only in (18). Although the latter utterance in (1) (repeated below) is an
<Information request>, the latter speaker cannot say both parts of the co-construction,
because the former utterance contains a subjective adjective and the deictic verb iku ‘go
(away from the speaker)’.
	 (1)	 TELEPHONE: Invitation (2 Friends)
→58A	 まあ、
行ってもいい//んだけども、
 <Information presentation>
	 Maa, itte mo ii //n da kedomo,
	 well go-ger even good nom cop-ip but
	 Well, it’s that (it)’s okay if (I) go, but
⇒59B	 また行くのはめんどく
さい？ <Information request>
	 Mata iku no wa mendokusai?
	 again go-ip nom top bother
	 Is going (towards me) again a bother?  (Szatrowski 1993: Data 16)
18.  I consider 2N to be the latter utterance of the co-construction in 1J and 2N because I ana-
lyze the accomplishment of co-constructions as the conversation develops in time. Although J’s
utterance in 3J suggests that in 2N N did not supply what J had intended to say, 2N is a possible
way of completing 1J.
330	 Polly Szatrowski
According to Kuno’s (1987) Siten (Perspective) Hierarchy, the deictic verb “goes up
to” (Japanese iku: X ga Y ni iku ‘X goes to Y’) requires the speaker to “describe the ac-
tion from the camera angle of X rather than Y,” and the deictic “come up to” (Japan-
ese kuru: X ga Y ni kuru ‘X comes to Y’) requires the speaker to “describe the action
from the camera angle of Y rather than X” (Kuno 1987: 225). Thus, B’s use of iku in
59B describes the action of going from the camera angle of A.
	 B’s use of the deictic verb iku ‘go (away from the speaker)’ in 59B in (1) violates Ku-
no’s Speech Act Empathy Hierarchy. According to Kuno’s Speech Act Empathy Hier-
archy, E(speaker)>E(others); “The speaker cannot empathize with someone else more
than with himself” (Kuno 1987: 212). B’s use of iku ‘go’ in 59B violates this hierarchy be-
cause she describes the action of going from the camera angle of A, thus implying that
she (the speaker) emphasizes more with the hearer than with herself. Minami (1993,
2002) indicates that person restriction does not apply in the A and B levels. B’s use of
the verb iku in the relative clause in 59B, a B level clause, suggests that Kuno’s Empathy
Hierarchy may not apply in Minami’s A and B levels.
	 The use of the deictic verb iku in (1) can be understood better if one takes into ac-
count the overall structure of the invitation conversation, which includes the Invitation
Wadan ‘Stage’ and AnswerWadan ‘Stage’ shown in (19).
	 (19)	 TELEPHONE: Invitation (2 Friends)
Invitation Stage 2:
45B	 出てこれる－？
	 Dete koreru:?
	 go out-ger come-pot-ip
	 Can you come out?
46A	 (1.0)
47B	 来れなさそう
？
	 Korenasasoo?
	 come-pot-neg-evid(seem)
	 Does it look like (you) can’t come?
48A	 (0.3)吉祥寺－？
	 (0.3) Kitizyoozi:?
	 Kichijoji (place)
	 (0.3) (to) Kichijoji?
49B	 う－ん。
	 U:n.
	 Ye:ah.
Answer Stage 2:
50A	 ちょっと、
あたし、
今さあ、
	 Tyotto, atasi, ima saa,
	 just I now fp
	 Just, I, now, you know,
	 Subjectivity, perspective and footing 331
51A	 吉祥寺から－、
	 Kitizyoozi kara:
	 Kichijoji (place) from
	 from Kichijoji,
52A	 ていうか、
	 te iu ka,
	 or
53A	 あたしきょ
う立川だったんだよ－。
	 atasi kyoo Tatikawa datta n da yo:.
	 I today Tachikawa (place) cop-p nom cop-ip fp
	 it’s that I was in Tachikawa today, you know.
54B	 ああ、
そうなんだ。
	 Aa, soo na n da.
	 oh so cop nom cop-ip
	 Oh, is it that (that’s) so.
55B	 //言ってたねえ。
	 //itte ta nee.
	 //say-pf-p fp
	 //(you) had said (that), hadn’t you.
56A	 それで帰ってきたところだから、
	 Sore de kaette kita tokoro da kara,
	 and return home-ger come-p place cop-ip so
	 And, (I) just returned home so,
57B	 う－ん。
	 U:n.
	 Uh hu:h.
→58A	 まあ、
行ってもいい//んだけども、
 <Information presentation>
	 Maa, itte mo ii //n da kedomo,
	 well go-ger even good nom cop-ip but
	 Well, it’s that (it)’s okay if (I) go, but
⇒59B	 また行くのはめんどく
さい？ <Information request>
	 Mata iku no wa mendokusai?
	 again go-ip nom top bother
	 Is going (towards me) again a bother?  (Szatrowski 1993: Data 16)
InInvitationStage2,theinviterB,usesthedeicticverbkuru‘come’in45Band47Bwhen
she makes the invitation from her perspective as the inviter. Then, in Answer Stage 2,
the invitee A talks about her present circumstances, suggesting that she has a negative
attitude towards the invitation. B takes A’s perspective in 59A when she asks B if going
again would be a bother by using the deictic verb iku ‘go’ instead of kuru ‘come.’ By tak-
ing A’s perspective, B makes A’s circumstances rather than her (B’s) invitation central,
thus showing her concern and making it easier for A to refuse (Szatrowski 1993).
332	 Polly Szatrowski
	 The example in (20) is from a company orientation meeting among four people. In
2B the latter speaker completes the former supporting participant’s <Information re-
quest> on his own footing as an information presenter using an <Information present-
ing> utterance.
	 (20)	 FACE-TO-FACE: Company Meeting (four participants)
→1D	 で、
その時に保証料とのうひ-、
ま、
据えつけ－//は、
 <Information request>
	 De, sono toki ni hosyooryoo to noohi- ma, suetuke: //wa,
	 and that time at deposit and install- well installation top
	 And, at that time as for the deposit and install-, well, installation
⇒2B	 は、
処理してます。
 <Information presentation>
	 wa, syori-site masu.
	 top take care of-pf-ip-dis
	 as for (that) (we) have taken care of (it).
It is possible for the latter speaker to say both parts of this co-construction. Although
there are no grammatical restrictions on the former speaker saying both parts of the co-
construction, presumably she cannot because she does not have access to the informa-
tion in the latter utterance.
4.	 Conclusion
In the data used for this study, I) co-constructions in which the former and latter speak-
er aligned together in addressing other participants tended to occur in conversations
with more than two participants. Results of the analysis of co-constructions that are not
addressed to other participants are summarized in Table 2. The data suggest that there
may be a tendency for IIa) co-constructions where the latter speaker completed the co-
construction on the former speaker’s footing to occur in face-to-face storytelling and
chatting conversations, IIb–c) co-constructions where the latter speaker completed the
co-construction on his/her own footing as a supporting participant to occur in invi-
tations and other telephone conversations, and IId) co-constructions where the latter
speaker completed the co-construction on his/her own footing as an information pre-
senter to occur in business-related telephone conversations and face-to-face company
meetings. 19
In the co-constructions where the latter speaker completed the co-con-
struction on his/her own footing there was also a tendency for the latter speaker to be
a supporting participant.
	 Table 2 summarizes the following four tendencies in II) co-constructions that were
not addressed to other participants in my data.
	 IIa  The co-constructions in (11)–(13) are examples where the latter speaker com-
19.  See Table A in the Appendix for the distribution of co-constructions among these types.
More data is needed to determine whether these tendencies are statistically significant.
	 Subjectivity, perspective and footing 333
Table
2. 
Subjectivity,
perspective
and
footing
in
co-constructions
that
were
not
addressed
to
other
participants
Former
utterance
Latter
utterance
Former
speaker’s
Former
speaker’s
Latter
speaker’s
Type
Example
IW/F
P
IW
P
F
P
Former
speaker’s
footing
(Utterance
function)
Latter
speaker’s
footing
(Utterance
function)
Speaker(s)
who
can
say
both
parts
of
the
co-
construction
IIa
10
☆
Expression
of
will
Former
11
▽
☆
Information
presentation
Former
12
☆
Expression
of
will
Former
13
Information
presentation
Both
IIb
14
☆
Comment
Former
15
Confirmation/
information
request
Both
IIc
16
○
●
Confirmation
Neither
1
☆
△
☆
△
●
Information
request
Neither
17
○
●
▲
Information
request
Neither
18
●
Information
request
Latter
IId
20
●
Information
presentation
Latter
IW
=
Inner
world;
P
=
Perspective;
F
=
Footing;
☆
=
features
related
to
the
subjective
inner
world;
▽
=
first-person
pronouns;
△
=
deictic
verbs;
▲
=
honorific
verbs;
○
=
features
related
to
the
former
speaker’s
footing;
●
=
features
related
to
the
latter
speaker’s
footing
334	 Polly Szatrowski
pletes the co-construction on the former speaker’s footing. The latter speaker is able to
enter the former speaker’s inner world by acting as an assistant information present-
er. It is possible for the former speaker to say both parts of the co-construction, and in
cases where the co-construction relates to a third person as in (13), it is also possible for
the latter speaker to say both parts of the co-construction.
	 IIb  The co-constructions in (14)–(15) are examples where the latter speaker com-
pletes the co-construction on his/her own footing as a supporting participant, and the
latter utterance has the function of <Comment> or <Confirmation/ Information Re-
quest>. It is possible for the latter speaker to say both parts of the co-construction as
long as there are no subjective or perspective elements relative to the former speak-
er in either utterance. It is also possible for the former speaker to say both utterances
of the co-construction. However, in this case the utterance functions change from a
<Comment> or <Confirmation/ Information Request> to an <Information Presenta-
tion/Agreement Request>, because the former speaker speaks on the footing of an in-
formation presenter and has (or presumes to have) more access to the information.
	 IIc  The co-constructions in (16)–(18) and (1) are examples where the latter speaker
completes the co-construction on his/her own footing as a supporting participant, and
the latter utterance has the function of<Confirmation> or <Information request>. It is
not possible for the latter speaker to say both parts of the co-construction if the latter
utterance is said from the perspective of the former speaker, for exa  mple, if it contains a
deictic verb that is relative to the position of the former but not the latter speaker. In add-
ition, it may not be possible for the former speaker to say both parts of the co-construc-
tion if the latter utterance has elements such as A:a ‘O:h’ and Zyaa ‘Then (in that case)’
which indicate that a conclusion has been drawn, and the final interrogative particle ka.
	 IId  The co-construction in (20) is an example where the latter speaker completes
the co-construction on his/her own footing as an information presenting participant.
In this case it is possible for the latter speaker but not the former speaker to say both
parts of the co-construction.
	 A major difference between co-constructions where the latter speaker completes
the co-construction on the former speaker’s footing versus on his/her own footing re-
lates to the utterance initial and final forms of the latter speaker’s utterances. Latter
utterances on the former speaker’s footing connect smoothly onto the former speak-
er’s utterance and end with iikiri ‘truncated’ forms20
such as ittyaou ‘(I) guess (I)’ll end
up going’, omou ‘(I) think,’ kimetyau ‘(I) will end up deciding,’ and yudaneru ‘(she/he)
entrusts.’ They also tend to end with a blunt flat intonation, rather than a clear rising
interrogative or falling sentence-final intonation.21
In contrast, latter utterances on the
20.  Tanaka (1999: 89) notes that “‘anticipatory completions’, where a coparticipant completes a
current speaker’s turn in progress” often end with iikiri ‘truncated’ forms without utterance-fi-
nal elements. By utterance-final elements she means final verb suffixes (for example, masu, ma‑
sita, etc.), copula forms, final particles, request and imperative forms, nominalizers, etc.
21.  This assessment of intonation was made by ear based on examples where tapes were available.
	 Subjectivity, perspective and footing 335
latter speaker’s footing often begin with forms which express the latter speaker’s foot-
ing such as U:n ‘Uh hu:h,’ Un ‘Yeah,’ A/A:a ‘Oh/O:h,’ Zyaa ‘Then (in that case),’ and
end with final particles such as ne? ‘didn’t you,’ nee? ‘isn’t it,’ yo ne ‘isn’t it,’ the final in-
terrogative particle ka or interrogative rising intonation, desyoo? ‘doesn’t he,’ wake da
‘it’s the case,’ etc.
	 The use of expressions of will, thinking verbs, and deictic verbs in the latter utter-
ance of co-constructions cannot be explained by previous grammatical analyses. I
have shown that participants in actual conversations go beyond person, perspective,
and territory restrictions in their co-construction of meaning in the interaction. Sen-
tences co-constructed by two or more speakers in natural conversation differ from the
sentences created by one speaker/writer that were the focus of previous grammatical
accounts. For example, many co-constructions can only be pronounced in their en-
tirety by the former speaker or the latter speaker and in some cases by neither of the
speakers. I have demonstrated that it is necessary to refer to perspective, footing (in-
formation presenter vs. supporting participant), and whether or not the utterance is
addressed to another participant(s) to account for how co-constructions are used in
actual interactions.
Appendix
Table A.  The data used in this study
Genre #Part. #Ex. : #Conv. I IIa IIb IIc IId Subtotal Total
Telephone
Chatting 2 15: 10 0 3 4 7 1 22: 15 29: 22
Invitations 2   7: 5 0 1 1 5 0
Business/
formal
2   7: 7 0 1 2 1 3   7: 7
Face-to-face
Chatting (friends) 2   2: 2 0 2 0 0 0 10: 10 21: 16
>2   1: 1 1 0 0 0 0
?   7: 7 0 5 1 1 0
Chatting (formal) ?   1: 2 0 0 0 1 0 11: 6
Diet >2   1: 1 0 1 0 0 0
Company
meetings
11   3: 1 3 0 0 0 0
4   3: 1 0 1 0 1 1
TV interview 2   3: 1 0 3 0 0 0
Total 2~10 50: 38 4 17 8 16 5 50: 38 50: 38
Note: Part.= participants; Ex.= example; Conv.= conversations; I = co-constructions in which the former
and latter speaker align together in addressing other participants,and IIa–d = co-constructions that are
not addressed to other participants.The telephone chatting and invitation conversations and face-to-face
chatting conversations between friends were informal and the rest formal.Statistical tendencies are be-
yond the scope of this chapter because the numbers of examples given in the table are not an exhaustive
count of all of the co-constructions in each conversation.In addition,in some cases where the data were
cited,complete information such as the number of participants was not available.
336	 Polly Szatrowski
Acknowledgement
I would like to thank Dr. Fujio Minami for his patience and assistance in translating and inter-
preting excerpts from his chapter, and Kazuyo Kusakari for her help in transcribing the Japan-
ese examples for this study. I am also grateful to the editors, Nancy Hedberg and Ron Zacharski,
for their careful reading and comments on this chapter.
Abbreviations
con = connective (no); cond = conditional (-tara/-dara); cons = consultative (-(y)oo); cop = cop-
ula; dis = distal (formal) style; do = direct object; evid = evidential; fp = final particle (sa, ne,
yo); gen = genitive; ger = gerund (-te/-de); goal =  goal; hon = honorific; ip = imperfective;
neg = negative; nom = nominalizer; p = perfective; pas = passive; pf = perfect; pot = potential;
prog = progressive; prov = provisional (-(r)eba); q = quotative particle; qp = question particle;
sub = subject (ga); tag = tag question; tent = tentative; top = topic (wa); vp = vocative particle;
+ = contracted form. Predicates that are not marked dis (distal) or hon (honorific) are uttered
in direct (informal) style.
Japanese–Romanized transcription conventions
 
。
/.	 falling sentence-final intonation.
 
？/?	 rising intonation, not necessarily a question.
 
、
/,	 continuing intonation followed by a slight pause.
→	 flat intonation.
//	
Double slashes // mark the place where an utterance is overlapped by the following
utterance. In some cases the subsequent overlapping utterance is not moved to the right
under the // to save space.
 
－/ :	
indicates lengthening of the preceding vowel or syllabic nasal in the Japanese/ roman-
ized version of the transcript.
 -	
cut-off (Japanese 動く- represents a cut-off in the middle of the final mora, romanized
as ugok-). Cut-offs are followed by a space in the romanized transcription and are to be
distinguished from word-medial dashes that indicate morphological boundaries (for
example, ryuugaku-suru ‘study abroad’).
{ }	 enclose non-linguistic sounds such as laughter.
Aizuti	
‘back channel utterances’ which include laughter, are moved to the right to line up with
the end of the Japanese utterance to which they respond, or in the case of overlap to the
place where they overlap the previous utterance.
Following Szatrowski (1993), I divided utterances when the other participant began talking, and
after final particles, and clausal or sentential endings, but included postposed noun phrases in
the utterances after the sentence ending. I capitalized the first letter of proper nouns and utter-
ances after a falling sentence-final intonation, except in the case of postposed noun phrases and
clauses, where I did not capitalize the first letter. In cases of overlap, I divided the overlapped
utterance after final particles, and clausal or sentential endings.
	 Subjectivity, perspective and footing 337
References
Antaki, Charles, Diaz, Felix & Collins, Alan F. 1996 “Keeping your footing: Conversational com-
pletion in three-part sequences.” Journal of Pragmatics 25: 151–71.
Aoki, Haruo. 1986 “Evidentials in Japanese.” In Evidentiality: The linguistic coding of epistemol‑
ogy, ed. by Wallace Chafe and Johanna Nichols, 223–38. Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Austin, J. L.  1970 Philosophical papers. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Azuma, Hiroko. 1992 “Kanzyoo keeyoosi zyutugobun ni okeru kanzyoosyu no ninsyoo seegen.”
Nihongo ronkyuu 3 Gendai nihongo no kenkyuu, 45–68. Tokyo: Izumi Shoin.
Goffman, Erving. 1981. Forms of talk. Oxford: Blackwell.
Hayashi, Shiro. 1960. Kihon bunkee no kenkyuu. Tokyo: Meiji Tosho.
Hayashi, Shiro, Nomoto, Kikuo, & Minami, Fujio (eds.). 1987. Reekai sinkokugo ziten. Tokyo:
Sanseido.
Iwasaki, Shoichi. 1993. Subjectivity in grammar and discourse: Theoretical considerations and a
case study of Japanese spoken discourse. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kamio, Akio. 1990. Zyoohoo no nawabari riron-Gengo no kinooteki bunseki. Tokyo: Taishukan
Shoten.
Kinsui, Satoshi. 1989. “‘Hookoku’ ni tuite no oboegaki.” In Nihongo no modarit(e)i, ed. by ­Yoshio
Nitta. Tokyo: Kurosio Shuppan.
Kudo, Mayumi. 1995. Asupekuto/tensu taikee to tekusuto gendai nihongo no zikan no hyoogen.
Tokyo: Hitsuji Shobo.
Kuno, Susumu. 1978. Danwa no bunpoo. Tokyo: Taishukan Shoten.
Kuno, Susumu. 1987. Functional syntax: Anaphora, discourse and empathy. Chicago: The Uni-
versity of Chicago Press.
Kuroda, S.-Y. 1973. “Where epistemology, style, and grammar meet: a case study from Japanese.”
In A festschrift for Morris Halle, ed. by Stephen Anderson and Paul Kiparsky, 377–91. New
York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc.
Kuwabara, Kazuko. 1996. “Nihongo no ‘teean’ no danwa no koozoo bunseki.” Nihon Zyosi
Daigakuin Bungaku Kenkyuuka Kiyoo 2: 1–12.
Levinson, Stephen. 1988. “Putting linguistics on a proper footing: Explorations in Goffman's
concepts of participation.” In Erving Goffman: Exploring the interaction order, ed. by Paul
Drew & Wootton, 161–227. Oxford: Polity Press.
Masuoka, Takashi. 1992. “Hyoogen no syukansee to siten.” Nihongogaku 11.8: 28–34.
Masuoka, Takashi. 1997. “Hyoogen no syukansee.” Siten to gengo koodoo, ed. by Yukinori
Takubo, 1–11. Tokyo: Kurosio Shuppan.
Masuoka, Takashi. 2006. “‘-tai’ koobun ni okeru imi no kakutyoo-Ganboo to hyooka ­handan.”
In Nihongo bunpoo no sintihee, ed. by Takashi Masuoka, Hisashi Noda, and Takuro Mori-
yama, 63–76. Tokyo: Kurosio Shuppan.
Minami, Fujio. 1964. “Hukubun.” Kooza gendaigo 6 Koogo bunpoo no mondaiten, 71–89. Tokyo:
Meiji Shoin.
Minami, Fujio. 1974. Gendai nihongo no koozoo. Tokyo: Taishukan Syoten.
Minami, Fujio. 1993. Gendai nihongo bunpoo no rinkaku. Tokyo: Taishukan Shoten.
Minami, Fujio. 1997. Gendai nihongo kenkyuu. Tokyo: Sanseido.
Minami, Fujio. 2002. “Danwa no seekaku to ninsyoo seegen.” Kindaigo kenkyuu dai 11-syuu-
Kindai gogaku hen, 458–71. Tokyo: Musashino Shoin.
338	 Polly Szatrowski
Minami, Fujio. 2003. “Dai 6-syoo Bunsyoo/danwa no zentaiteki koozoo.” In Bunsyoo/danwa,
supervised by Yasuo Kitahara, ed. by Mayumi Sakuma, 120–50. Tokyo: Asakura Shoten.
Mizutani, Nobuko. 1993. “‘Kyoowa’ kara ‘taiwa’ e”. Nihongogaku 12.4: 4–11.
Morita, Yoshiyuki. 1968. “‘Iku/kuru’ no yoohoo.” Kokugogaku 75: 75–87.
Morita, Yoshiyuki. 1977. Kiso nihongo—imi to tukaikata. Tokyo: Kadokawa Shoten.
Ono, Tsuyoshi & Yoshida, Eri. 1996. “A study of co-construction in Japanese: We don’t ‘finish
each other’s sentences.’” In Japanese/Korean Linguistics 5, ed. by Noriko Akatsuka, Shoichi
Iwasaki and Susan Strauss, 115–30. Stanford: CSLI.
Onuma, Kiyoshi. 2001. “Iryoo soodan de no hentoo koozoo.” Dai 7-kai bunsyoo/danwa kenky-
uukai.Waseda University. March.
Sakuma, Mayumi. 1987. “Bundan nintee no iti-kizyun (I) Teedai hyoogen no tookatu. Tsukuba
Daigaku Bungee/Gengo Gakkee” Bungee/Gengo Kenkyuu Gengohen 11: 89–135.
Sakuma, Mayumi, Sugito, Seiju & Hanzawa, Kanichi (eds.). 1997. Bunsyoo/ danwa no sikumi.
Tokyo: Ofu.
Searle, John. 1969. Speech Acts. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Suzuki, Mutsumi. 1989. “Kikite no siteki ryooiki to teenee hyoogen.” Nihongogaku 2.8: 58–64.
Suzuki, Ryoko. 1998. “From a lexical noun to an utterance final particle: wake.” In Studies in Jap‑
anese grammaticalization- cognitive and discourse perspectives, ed. by Toshio Ohori, 67–92.
Tokyo: Kurosio Publishers.
Szatrowski, Polly. 1991. “Kaiwa ni okeru ‘tani’ ni tuite- ‘Wadan’ no teean” (On ‘units’ in conver-
sation analysis: Proposal for the ‘stage’). Nihongogaku 10.10: 79–96.
Szatrowski, Polly. 1993. Nihongo no danwa no koozoo bunseki-Kanyuu no sutoratezii no koosatu
(Structure of Japanese conversation- Invitation strategies). Tokyo: Kurosio Shuppan.
Szatrowski, Polly. 1994. “Discourse functions of the Japanese epistemic modal desyoo.” Berkeley
Linguistics Society 20: 532–46.
Szatrowski, Polly. 1996. “When do Japanese speakers co-construct utterances?” American Asso-
ciation of Applied Linguistics Conference. 25 March 1996. Chicago.
Szatrowski, Polly. 1997a. “Kakawariai” (Interaction). In Bunsyoo/danwa no sikumi, ed. by Mayu-
mi Sakuma, Seiju Sugito, and Kanichi Hanzawa, 164–80. Tokyo: Ofu.
Szatrowski, Polly. 1997b. “Nihongo no danwa no rizumu bunseki- ‘Iki no atta’ kaiwa o ree ni”
(Rhythm analysis of a ‘lively’ Japanese conversation). In Taiwa to ti, ed. by Yuji Moro, 101–
48. Tokyo: Shinyosha Publishers.
Szatrowski, Polly. 2000a. “Kyoodoo hatuwa ni okeru sankasya no tatiba to gengo/higengo no
kanren ni tuite” (Relation between participant status and verbal/nonverbal behavior in co-
construction). Nihongo Kagaku 7.4: 44–69.
Szatrowski, Polly. 2000b. “Genbun no ‘roodoku wadan’ to tyookai yooyakubun to no kankee”
(Relation between acoustic paragraphs in the oral reading of an editorial essay and its sum-
maries). In Nihongo no bunsyoo/danwa ni okeru “dan” no koozoo to kinoo, ed. by Mayumi
Sakuma, 202–16. Tokyo: Waseda University Center for Japanese Research and Education.
Szatrowski, Polly. 2002a. “Syntactic projectability and co-participant completion in Japanese
conversation.” Berkeley Linguistics Society 28: 315–25.
Szatrowski, Polly. 2002b. “Animeesyon no sutoorii o kataru sai no wadan to tyuusin hatuwa”
(Wadan ‘stages’ and central utterances in animation film narratives). Hyoogen Kenkyuu
76: 33–9.
Szatrowski, Polly. 2003. Kyoodoo hatuwa kara mita “ninsyoo seegen,” “siten” o meguru mondai
[Problems related to person restriction and perspective in co-construction]. Nihongo Bun‑
poo [Journal of Japanese Grammar] 3.1: 49–66
	 Subjectivity, perspective and footing 339
Takubo, Yukinori. 2000. “Siten.” Gendai nihongo hikkee, Bessatu Kokubungaku 53: 148–51.
­
Tokyo: Gakutoosya.
Tanaka, Hiroko. 1999. Turn-taking in Japanese conversation. Amsterdam: John Benjamins Pub-
lishing Company.
Teramura, Hideo. 1973. “Kanzyoo hyoogen no sintakusu- ‘Koozi no bun’ ni yoru bunseki no iti-
ree-.” Gekkan Gengo 2.11: 8–26. Tokyo: Taishukan Shoten.
Teramura, Hideo. 1982. Nihongo no sintakusu to imi. Tokyo: Kurosio Shuppan.
A
Aissen,Judith  20,21,37
Albrecht,Jason  274
Anagnastopoulou,Elena  246
Andersen,Gisle  235
Aoki,Haruo  314
Ariel,Mira  209,267,269
Asher,Nicholas  176
Assayag,Nurit  281
Austin,John Langshaw  297,317
Ayers-Elam,Gayle  52
Azuma,Hiroko  314,317
B
Baker,Carl Lee  123,131
Ball,Catherine  71,79
Baltin,Mark  246
Bartsch,Renate  180
Basilico,David  22
Battistella,Edwin  20
Bazerman,Charles  265,266
Beckman,Mary  52
Bennett,Michael  180
Biber,Douglas  265,266,269,
283,286
Bienvenue,Breton  193
Birner,Betty  20,35,43
Blackwell,Sarah  212
Blakemore,Diane  218,222
Blum-Kulka,Shoshana  297,310
Boersma,Paul  21
Bohnemeyer,Jurgen  100
Bolinger,Dwight  79
Borkin,Ann  295,300,301,308
Bresnan,Joan  20,35,66
Brisson,Christine  202,203,
205,206
Brown,Penelope  309,310
Bulygina,Tat Ljana  254,258
Burton-Roberts,Noel  158,
163
C
Cantrall,William  131
Carlson,Gregory N 147,152,
154,162
Carnap,Rudolf  248,249
Carston,Robyn  218,233,235
Chafe,Wallace  34,266,280,282
Chesterman,Andrew  146,
147,158
Chierchia,Gennaro  162
Chomsky,Noam  72
Christian Brothers  116
Chu,Chauncey C 95
Chung,Sandra  247
Cinque,Guglielmo  246,252
Clancy,Patricia  287
Clark,Herbert  36,39,270
Coates,Jennifer  78
Cohen,Andrew  293,295,296,
304
Collins,Alan  320,323
Comorovski,Ileana  246
Comrie,Bernard  20
Cornilescu,Alexandra  246
Cornish,Francis  198,221
Cruttenden,Hannah  271
Cumming,Susanna  266
D
Dahl,Debbie  259
Dahl,Östen  119,147,163
Dahlgren,Kathleen  268,284
Danielewicz,Jane  266
Davidson,Donald  173
Davis,Philip W.  92,97,101
Davison,Alice  310
Dayal,Veneeta  246
de Bhaldraithe,Tomás  116
Delin,Judy  50,56,74
den Dikken,Marcel  246,260
Diaz,Felix  320,323
Dik,Simon  192
Dubois,Edward  35
Dubois,John W.  20,27,265
E
Engel,Orit  282
Erkü,Feride  225
Erteschik-Shir,Nomi  260
Ervin-Tripp,Susan  310
F
Faber,Pamela  192
Filip,Hana  258
Fillmore,Charles  37,192,198,
199,201
Finegan,Edward  266,279
Fowler,Carol  272
Fox,Barbara  29,44,268, 269,
278
François,Jacques  196,197
Fraser,Bruce  293,295
Fraurud,Kari  119,270,272,
278,287
Frege,Gottlob  248
Fretheim,Thorstein  50,62,119,
146,174
G
Garcia,Carmen  293
Garrod,Simon  277
Gernsbacher,Morton Ann  37,
285
Gettier,Edmund  184
Giannakidou,Anastasia  246,
260
Givón,Talmy  20,22,25,26,31,
43,119
Godfrey,J.  24
Goffman,Erving  296,313,320
Goldberg,Adele  193,194
Goldman,Alvin  184
Goodman,Nelson  163
Gregory,Michelle  28,30,35
Grice,H.Paul  34,113,145,297,
304
Groefsema,Marjolein  195,
198,199,200,201,202
Gundel,Jeanette  24,26,50,52,
58,62,66,67,74,83,121,
225,245,259
Gurman-Bard,Ellen  272
H
Haberland,Hartmut  310
Halliday,M.A.K.  23,50
Halmari,Helena  266
Halvorsen,Per-Kristian  83
Haviland,S.  36,39
Hayashi,Shiro  318
Hedberg,Nancy  24,50,78,79,
83,84,174,175,197,209,
247,251,274
Hegarty,Michael  113,178,186
Heim,Irene  270
Hendriks,Henriette  92,95
Hengeveld,K 189
Herburger,Elena  177
Heslot,J.  266
Heycock,Caroline  59,72,73
Higginbotham,James  173,185
Higgins,F.Roger  73,78
Hirschberg,Julia  122
Holmes,Janet  293,296
Homer,Kristin  20
Hopper,Paul  27
Horn,Laurence  21,34,36,69,
83
Housum,Jonathan  272
Huang,C.-T.James  123,129
Huang,Lillian Meei Jin  92,97,
101
Huang,Yan  128,190,212
I
Ioup,Georgette  22
Iwasaki,Shoichi  314
Index of names
342	 The Grammar–Pragmatics Interface
J
Jackendoff,Ray  26,200
Jenkins,Lyle  79
Jorgensen,Julia  310
Joshi,Aravind K 175
Jurafsky,Daniel  25
K
Kamio,Akio  320
Karttunen,Lauri  260
Keenan,Edward  20
Kehler,Andrew  122
Kennedy,Chris  98,99
Kerbrat-Orecchioni,
Catherine  310
Kinsui,Satoshi  314
Kirsner,Robert  267
Kiss,Katalin É.69,84
Klein,Wolfgang Li,Ping  92,95
Kluender,Robert  246,247,252,
259
Koenig,Jean-Pierre  193,195,
196
Kornfilt,Jaklin  123
Kratzer,Angelika  172,184,185
Kroch,Anthony  59,72,73
Krongauz,Maxim  255,258
Kronrod,Ann  282
Kudo,Mayumi  317
Kumpf,Lorraine  282
Kuno,Susumu  19,22,66,119,
314,319,330
Kuo,Jenny Yi-Chun  95
Kuroda,S.Y.  26,314,317
König,Ekkehard  265
L
LaPolla,Randy  22,190,195,196,
201,202,203,204,207,210
Ladd,D.Robert  27,64
Lahiri,Utpal  176
Lakoff,Robin  310
Lambrecht,Knud  20–3,25–7,
35,38,43,67,118,194,197–
9,210,245,255
Landman,Fred  186
Langacker,Ronald  42,255
Larjavaara,Meri  197
Lawler,John  163
Lee,Cher Leng  123
Leech,Geoffrey  266,279,296,
304,310
Lehrer,Adrienne  194,200
Lemoine,K 194,197,198,210
Levin,Beth  98,99,191,202,
203,204
Levinson,Stephen  211,310,
320
Lewis,John D.  246,255
Li,Charles  91,97,107
Lin,Jo-Wang  92,97,99,104,
106
Link,Godehard  147,148,149,
163,166
Liu,Xunning  99
Longacre,Robert  287
Lord,Carol  268,284
Lyons,Christopher  270,273,
287
M
McCawley,James  249
McCloskey,James  180
Maes,Alfons  270,274
Mairal Usón,Ricardo  192
Marmaridou,Sophia  310
Marshall,Catherine  270
Masuoka,Takashi  314,317,
319
Mauner,Gail  195,196
Mchombo,Sam  20,35,66
Meier,A.J.  293
Mejri,Salah  196,197
Melinger,Alissa  193
Mey,Jacob  310
Meyerhoff,Miriam  293
Michaelis,Laura  23,28,30,35
Miller,Carolyn R 265
Minami,Fujio  314,315,317,
318,320,324,327,330
Mithun,Marianne  22
Mittwoch,Anita  201
Moltmann,Friederike  180
Montague,Richard  249
Morita,Yoshiyuki  314,319
Morris,Celia  269,284,286
Mulkern,Ann  121,144,151,
247
N
Nesher,Ilana  281
Nomoto,Kikuo  318
Noordman,Leo  270,274
Nunberg,Geoff  147
Nuyts,Jan  77
Ó
Ó Cadhlaigh,Cormac  116
O’Rathaille,Thomas  116
Ó Searcaigh,Séamus  116,117
Ó Siadhail,Mícheál 114,116
O
O’Brien,Edward  274
Oakhill,Jane  271
Obenauer,Hans-Georg  247
Obeng,Samuel Gyasi  293
Ocampo,Francisco  35
Ochs,Elinor  266
Olshtain,Elite  293,295,296,
304
Ono,Tsuyoshi  320,323
Onuma,Kiyoshi  318
Ö
Östman,Jan-Olaf  266
Owen,Marion  293,295,300,
308
P
Padueva,Elena  258
Palmer,Frank  79
Pan,C.  147
Parsons,Terrence  173,185
Pelletier,Francis Jeffry  162
Perkins,Michael  79
Pesetsky,David  246,253
Portner,Paul  251
Prince,Ellen  19,20,23,25,26,34,
35,38,39,43,50,53,60,62,
71,77,79,80,119,121,122,
126,175,210,245,273,282
Pustejovsky,James  192
R
Rappaport Hovav,Malka  191,
202,203,204
Raymond,William  20
Recanati,François  219
Reinhart,Susan  295,300,308
Reinhart,Tanya  50
Ritter,Elizabeth  203
Rohsenow,John  92
Roland,Douglas  25
Ross,Claudia  91,92,97,102
Ross,John  66
S
Sakuma,Mayumi  321
Sanders,Gerald  20,119
Sanford,Anthony  277
Sapir,Edward  20
Scha,Remko  180
Schmitt,Christina  102
Schwarzschild,Roger  180
Searle,John  297,310,317
Shi,Ziqiang  92,97,103
Shimoni,Anat Rachel  267
Shroyer,Suzanne  37,285
Sidner,Candace  270
Smith,Carlota  91,92,97,100
Sosa,Juan M.  49
Sperber,Dan  113,218,222,
223,235
Sproat,Richard  271
Stalnaker,Robert  36
Stenson,Nancy  113
Stig,Johansson  266
Stone,Matthew  81,86
Stubbs,Elizabeth  297
Suszczynska,Malgorzata  293
Suzuki,Mutsumi  320
Svartvik,Jan  158
Swales,John M.  265,288
Swanson,Wendy  268,271
Sweetser,Eve  79
Swift,Mary  100
Sybesma,Rint  92,95,97,98,
99,103
Szabolcsi,Anna  84
T
Taboada,Maite  49
	 Index of names  343
Tai,James H.Y.  95
Takubo,Yukinori  314
Tanaka,Hiroko  334
Tanaka,Shichiro  246
Tannen,Deborah  309,310
ter Meulen,Alice  147,148,149,
163,166
Teramura,Hideo  314
Thomas Rosen,Sara  203
Thompson,Sandra  27,44,91,97,
107,265
Toole,Janine  279
Traugott,Elizabeth Closs  265
Trosborg,Anna  293
V
Vallduví,Enric  27,50
van Heuven,Vincent  267
van Hout,Angeliek  192
Van Valin,Robert  22,190,192,
195,196,201,202,203,204,
207,210
Vendler,Zeno  147,194
von Fintel,Kai  177
W
Walker,Carol  277
Walker,Marilyn  23
Ward,Gregory  20,35,43,122,
271
Webber,Bonnie  174
Weinstein,Scott  175
West,G.K.  266
Wierzbicka,Anna  310
Wilson,Deirdre  113,218,222,
223,235
Wirth,Jessica  79
Wolfson,Nessa  294,308
Wu,Jiun-Shiung  92,100,107
Wu,Zoe Xiu-Zhi  92,103
Y
Yekovich,Frank  277
Yoshida,Eri  320,323
Z
Zacharski,Ron  38,50,52,113,
143,163,174,175,197,209,
247,257,267,270
Zanuttini,Raffaella  251
Zhang,Qing  102
Ziv,Yael  35
Zribi-Hertz,Anne  123
A
aboutness  25
accessibility marking scale  209
accessibility theory  267,276
accomplishment events  95
accomplishment verbs  209
activity verbs  208
Aktionsart  200,202–7
Algonquian  129
alternation  127
ambiguity avoidance  29
anaphoricity measure  28
anchored inferrables  42
anchoring  43
Apachean  129
argument focus  26
argument realization
condition  205
assistant information
presenter  324
atelic situations  194
atemporal property  200
C
centering theory  23,119–20,
126,175–6
Chafe-given  62
Chichewa  35
clausally introduced event  181–
6
clausally introduced
situations  181
clausally introduced
propositions  181
cleft constructions  50,118
comment–topic cleft  50,54,
59–60,64,65–6,69
it-cleft  49–51,55–62,70–6
reverse wh-cleft  49–51,
54–75
that-clefts  79,79,82–3,85
topic–comment cleft  54,59,
62,66,70,72
truncated cleft  77,83,89
vice-versa clefts  71
wh-cleft  49–51,54–76
cognate argument  192
cognitive status  53,113–15,
143–6,156–9,175,207,
210–11
activated  50,53,55–6,59–62,
67–8,70,114–16,120–1,
124–6,131–3,140,144–6,
148–9,156,158–9,161,168,
175–6,186,210–11,223,
247,259
familiar  53,55,59,61–3,114,
144–5,151–4,156–7,159–
61,168,210,247
in focus  39,114–15,119–20,
126,144–5,159,175,181,
184,186,210
referential  50,144–5,158,
197,210–11
type identifiable  39,53,114,
144–5,157,162,210
uniquely identifiable  39,
41–2,50,53,56,144–5,151,
1534,156–60,163–6,210
commitment  317
comparative  135–6
comparison  122
completive reading  93
condition C  72–3
conflation strategy  21
contrastive focus  72
contrastive topic  72,118,133
contrast  121–3
coordinate constructions  137–8
coordinate structure
constraint  66
D
d-linked  246
deictic verb  313,314,319,322,
329–35
definite descriptions  50,151–2,
255,257–9,265–73
definition of topic  23
degree of familiarity  294
demonstratives  28–29,32,37–
40,56,66–70,82–3,85,89,
113,115–16,138–40,149,
151,158,174,181–4,206,
211,218,257–8,267–269
discourse connective  217
discourse new  24–30,34–6,
43,53
discourse old  28,43,53–55,
58–9,61
discourse topic  23
discourse-linked
expressions  246
Dutch  267,270–1
E
economy condition  21
empathy hierarchy  330
emphasis  116,118–20,123–4
English
Australian English  279
New Zealand English  294,
311
English–Norwegian Parallel
Corpus  217ff
ENPC  see English–Norwegian
Parallel Corpus
entailment  92,99,175,178–80
entity-denotations  249
epistemic modality  78
epistemic  77
epistemic would  77–9,87
Eskimo 129
event realizations  100
event structures  189,190,199–
207,215
exhaustiveness  83–5
exclamatives  251,260
exophoric uses  198
extension  248
F
familiarity scale  19,39,41
first mention definite
descriptions  274
focus preposing  74
focus topicalization  74
footing  313–14,320,322–32
foregrounding  119
frame inferrables  40
French  20,35,123,131,191,193,
199,207
Functional Grammar  190
G
generic value  193,196,201
given-before-new principle  58
Given A constraint  27,35
givenness  23,38,50–6
givenness hierarchy  38–40,52,
113–15,120,129,143–6,
156–61,175,209–11,247,
260,267
H
habitual sentences  98,103
hearer new  43,210
Hebrew  247,270,271–2,281,
287,288
I
iconicity constraint  21
identifiability  38
implicature  84,92,105–6,108,
113,121,131,145,160,161–
3,166,168,175,202,213,
Index of subjects
	 Index of subjects  345
218,226,233, 248,285,301
imposed salience  119–20,
123–4
indefinite null instantiation  194
indirect apology  294,295,297,
304–6,309
indirectness,definition  297
inferrables  39–43,53,55–6,121,
124,210
inferred entities  273,274,287
information-load constraint  35
inherent salience  119–20,128,
134
intension  172,248,254–5,
258–9
internal arguments  189
internal variables  192
Italian  26,35,252
J
Japanese  46,63,76,118,210,
287–90,313–15,319,320,
330,336–9,344
K
Keresan 129
kind-referring NPs  143,146,
151
Kutenai 129
L
latent object  197
left dislocation  30–1, 34,35,66
lexical coding  25,26
lexical objects  21,25,27,37,38,
41,43–4
lexical subjects  21,22,25–30,32,
34,36–8,40–5
locally free reflexive  123,131–7
M
Malay  123
Mandarin Chinese  59,91,108–
9,210
markedness reversal  20–1
mass quantifying
interpretation  177–8,182,
184
maxim of quality  304,308
maxim of quantity  113,145,
166
mental accessibility  276,277–8
N
non-transparent morphological
compounds  153
Norwegian  146,151–3,217
null complements  189–90,196–
7,199
number mismatch  79,83
O
obviation  116,128–9,133,140
open proposition  26, 77,79
P
part–whole structure  176,181
participant footings  320
partitive reading  200
perfective aspect marker  91,92,
99,103,108
persistence  31–4
person restriction  313–18,320,
322–4,330
perspective  123,131–2,137,
313,322
plastic-accent language  26
politeness  293,298,310
predicate focus  64
present continuative reading  92,
100,104–6
Principle of Relevance  113,120,
217–18,223,233,241
Principle of Separation of
Reference and Role  22,25,
34–5
procedural semantics  217–18,
224,241
proper name
interpretation  153–5
proper names  151
propositions  178
proximation  133
Q
quantifier scope  22,182
quantity adverbs  176,178,181,
182,184,186
quantity maxim  21,36,129
R
realization marker  92,99,100,
106,108
reciprocal  122–3,125–6,131
referential givenness  50,52–6,
58,61
register differences  265
relational givenness  50,54,58
relevance theory  113,218,233,
241
Russian  210,245,249–59
S
salience  38–9,89,116
semantic valency  190–1,193
sentence focus  26–7
Spanish  26,35,47,210,213,247
specificational sentence  51,78
Speech Act Empathy
Hierarchy  314,330
stage-level  254–5,258
stipulative approach  161
subevent identification
condition  204
subjectivity  123,131,136,139,
313,322
subsituation  173
supporting participant  313–14,
321,324,326–7
switch-polarity  229
switch-polarity anaphor  217,
221,223–5,227–8,231–2,
234–41
Switchboard corpus  24
syntactic argument  190
syntactic valency  190–1,193
T
taxonomic reading  149,159,
168
ToBI  52
topic shift  130,132–3,138
topic  21–6,30–1,34–6,44,50,
52,58–69,71–2,74–5,118–
19,126,129,133–4,197–9,
208,212–14,245,251,282,
286,316
topic-establishing strategy  34
topic establishment  24
topic introduction  25
topic persistence  31–3
topic time  106
topic topicalization  74
topicalization  19,30,74
transparent  151–160
Turkish  123
turn-taking  127–8,131
U
unexpectedness  120
unmarked  20,212–13,231,
249,257
W
wadan  320–1, 323,330
weak islands  252
weakly quantified
expression  257
wh-expressions  245–6,249,
253–4,259–61
Z
zero complement  196–8,200–2,
206–7,211–14
Pragmatics & Beyond New Series
A complete list of titles in this series can be found on the publishers’ website, www.benjamins.com
163	 Lytra, Vally: Play Frames and Social Identities. Contact encounters in a Greek primary school. 2007.
162	 Fetzer, Anita (ed.): Context and Appropriateness. Micro meets macro. vi, 260 pp. + index. Expected
September 2007
161	 Celle, Agnès and Ruth Huart (eds.): Connectives as Discourse Landmarks. viii, 210 pp. + index.
Expected August 2007
160	 Fetzer, Anita and Gerda Eva Lauerbach (eds.): Political Discourse in the Media. Cross-cultural
perspectives. viii, 376 pp. + index. Expected July 2007
159	 Maynard, Senko K.: Linguistic Creativity in Japanese Discourse. Exploring the multiplicity of self,
perspective, and voice. xiv, 354 pp. + index. Expected July 2007
158	 Walker, Terry: Thou and You in Early Modern English Dialogues. Trials, depositions, and drama comedy.
xx, 336 pp. + index. Expected June 2007
157	 Crawford Camiciottoli, Belinda: The Language of Business Studies Lectures. A corpus-assisted
analysis. 2007. xv, 236 pp.
156	 Vega Moreno, Rosa E.: Creativity and Convention. The pragmatics of everyday figurative speech.
xii, 243 pp. + index. Expected July 2007
155	 Hedberg, Nancy and Ron Zacharski (eds.): The Grammar–Pragmatics Interface. Essays in honor of
Jeanette K. Gundel. viii, 435 pp. Expected May 2007
154	 Hübler, Axel: The Nonverbal Shift in Early Modern English Conversation. 2007. x, 281 pp.
153	 Arnovick, Leslie K.: Written Reliquaries. The resonance of orality in medieval English texts. 2006.
xii, 292 pp.
152	 Warren, Martin: Features of Naturalness in Conversation. 2006. x, 272 pp.
151	 Suzuki, Satoko (ed.): Emotive Communication in Japanese. 2006. x, 234 pp.
150	 Busse, Beatrix: Vocative Constructions in the Language of Shakespeare. 2006. xviii, 525 pp.
149	 Locher, Miriam A.: Advice Online. Advice-giving in an American Internet health column. 2006.
xvi, 277 pp.
148	 Fløttum, Kjersti, Trine Dahl and Torodd Kinn: Academic Voices. Across languages and disciplines.
2006. x, 309 pp.
147	 Hinrichs, Lars: Codeswitching on the Web. English and Jamaican Creole in e-mail communication.
2006. x, 302 pp.
146	 Tanskanen, Sanna-Kaisa: Collaborating towards Coherence. Lexical cohesion in English discourse.
2006. ix, 192 pp.
145	 Kurhila, Salla: Second Language Interaction. 2006. vii, 257 pp.
144	 Bührig, Kristin and Jan D. ten Thije (eds.): Beyond Misunderstanding. Linguistic analyses of
intercultural communication. 2006. vi, 339 pp.
143	 Baker, Carolyn, Michael Emmison and Alan Firth (eds.): Calling for Help. Language and social
interaction in telephone helplines. 2005. xviii, 352 pp.
142	 Sidnell, Jack: Talk and Practical Epistemology. The social life of knowledge in a Caribbean community.
2005. xvi, 255 pp.
141	 Zhu,Yunxia: Written Communication across Cultures. A sociocognitive perspective on business genres.
2005. xviii, 216 pp.
140	 Butler, Christopher S., María de los Ángeles Gómez-González and Susana M. Doval-Suárez
(eds.): The Dynamics of Language Use. Functional and contrastive perspectives. 2005. xvi, 413 pp.
139	 Lakoff, Robin T. and Sachiko Ide (eds.): Broadening the Horizon of Linguistic Politeness. 2005.
xii, 342 pp.
138	 Müller, Simone: Discourse Markers in Native and Non-native English Discourse. 2005. xviii, 290 pp.
137	 Morita, Emi: Negotiation of Contingent Talk. The Japanese interactional particles ne and sa. 2005.
xvi, 240 pp.
136	 Sassen, Claudia: Linguistic Dimensions of Crisis Talk. Formalising structures in a controlled language.
2005. ix, 230 pp.
135	 Archer, Dawn: Questions and Answers in the English Courtroom (1640–1760). A sociopragmatic
analysis. 2005. xiv, 374 pp.
134	 Skaffari, Janne, Matti Peikola, Ruth Carroll, Risto Hiltunen and Brita Wårvik (eds.):
Opening Windows on Texts and Discourses of the Past. 2005. x, 418 pp.
133	 Marnette, Sophie: Speech and Thought Presentation in French. Concepts and strategies. 2005.
xiv, 379 pp.
132	 Onodera, Noriko O.: Japanese Discourse Markers. Synchronic and diachronic discourse analysis. 2004.
xiv, 253 pp.
131	 Janoschka, Anja: Web Advertising. New forms of communication on the Internet. 2004. xiv, 230 pp.
130	 Halmari, Helena and Tuija Virtanen (eds.): Persuasion Across Genres. A linguistic approach. 2005.
x, 257 pp.
129	 Taboada, María Teresa: Building Coherence and Cohesion. Task-oriented dialogue in English and
Spanish. 2004. xvii, 264 pp.
128	 Cordella, Marisa: The Dynamic Consultation. A discourse analytical study of doctor–patient
communication. 2004. xvi, 254 pp.
127	 Brisard, Frank, Michael Meeuwis and Bart Vandenabeele (eds.): Seduction, Community,
Speech. A Festschrift for Herman Parret. 2004. vi, 202 pp.
126	 Wu,Yi’an: Spatial Demonstratives in English and Chinese. Text and Cognition. 2004. xviii, 236 pp.
125	 Lerner, Gene H. (ed.): Conversation Analysis. Studies from the first generation. 2004. x, 302 pp.
124	 Vine, Bernadette: Getting Things Done at Work. The discourse of power in workplace interaction. 2004.
x, 278 pp.
123	 Márquez Reiter, Rosina and María Elena Placencia (eds.): Current Trends in the Pragmatics of
Spanish. 2004. xvi, 383 pp.
122	 González, Montserrat: Pragmatic Markers in Oral Narrative. The case of English and Catalan. 2004.
xvi, 410 pp.
121	 Fetzer, Anita: Recontextualizing Context. Grammaticality meets appropriateness. 2004. x, 272 pp.
120	 Aijmer, Karin and Anna-Brita Stenström (eds.): Discourse Patterns in Spoken and Written Corpora.
2004. viii, 279 pp.
119	 Hiltunen, Risto and Janne Skaffari (eds.): Discourse Perspectives on English. Medieval to modern.
2003. viii, 243 pp.
118	 Cheng, Winnie: Intercultural Conversation. 2003. xii, 279 pp.
117	 Wu, Ruey-Jiuan Regina: Stance in Talk. A conversation analysis of Mandarin final particles. 2004.
xvi, 260 pp.
116	 Grant, Colin B. (ed.): Rethinking Communicative Interaction. New interdisciplinary horizons. 2003.
viii, 330 pp.
115	 Kärkkäinen, Elise: Epistemic Stance in English Conversation. A description of its interactional
functions, with a focus on I think. 2003. xii, 213 pp.
114	 Kühnlein, Peter, Hannes Rieser and Henk Zeevat (eds.): Perspectives on Dialogue in the New
Millennium. 2003. xii, 400 pp.
113	 Panther, Klaus-Uwe and Linda L. Thornburg (eds.): Metonymy and Pragmatic Inferencing. 2003.
xii, 285 pp.
112	 Lenz, Friedrich (ed.): Deictic Conceptualisation of Space, Time and Person. 2003. xiv, 279 pp.
111	 Ensink, Titus and Christoph Sauer (eds.): Framing and Perspectivising in Discourse. 2003. viii, 227 pp.
110	 Androutsopoulos, Jannis K. and Alexandra Georgakopoulou (eds.): Discourse
Constructions of Youth Identities. 2003. viii, 343 pp.
109	 Mayes, Patricia: Language, Social Structure, and Culture. A genre analysis of cooking classes in Japan and
America. 2003. xiv, 228 pp.
108	 Barron, Anne: Acquisition in Interlanguage Pragmatics. Learning how to do things with words in a study
abroad context. 2003. xviii, 403 pp.
107	 Taavitsainen, Irma and Andreas H. Jucker (eds.): Diachronic Perspectives on Address Term
Systems. 2003. viii, 446 pp.
106	 Busse, Ulrich: Linguistic Variation in the Shakespeare Corpus. Morpho-syntactic variability of second
person pronouns. 2002. xiv, 344 pp.
105	 Blackwell, Sarah E.: Implicatures in Discourse. The case of Spanish NP anaphora. 2003. xvi, 303 pp.
104	 Beeching, Kate: Gender, Politeness and Pragmatic Particles in French. 2002. x, 251 pp.
103	 Fetzer, Anita and Christiane Meierkord (eds.): Rethinking Sequentiality. Linguistics meets
conversational interaction. 2002. vi, 300 pp.
102	 Leafgren, John: Degrees of Explicitness. Information structure and the packaging of Bulgarian subjects
and objects. 2002. xii, 252 pp.
101	 Luke, K. K. and Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou (eds.): Telephone Calls. Unity and diversity in
conversational structure across languages and cultures. 2002. x, 295 pp.
100	 Jaszczolt, Katarzyna M. and Ken Turner (eds.): Meaning Through Language Contrast.Volume 2.
2003. viii, 496 pp.
99	 Jaszczolt, Katarzyna M. and Ken Turner (eds.): Meaning Through Language Contrast.Volume 1.
2003. xii, 388 pp.
98	 Duszak, Anna (ed.): Us and Others. Social identities across languages, discourses and cultures. 2002.
viii, 522 pp.
97	 Maynard, Senko K.: Linguistic Emotivity. Centrality of place, the topic-comment dynamic, and an
ideology of pathos in Japanese discourse. 2002. xiv, 481 pp.
96	 Haverkate, Henk: The Syntax, Semantics and Pragmatics of Spanish Mood. 2002. vi, 241 pp.
95	 Fitzmaurice, Susan M.: The Familiar Letter in Early Modern English. A pragmatic approach. 2002.
viii, 263 pp.
94	 McIlvenny, Paul (ed.): Talking Gender and Sexuality. 2002. x, 332 pp.
93	 Baron, Bettina and Helga Kotthoff (eds.): Gender in Interaction. Perspectives on femininity and
masculinity in ethnography and discourse. 2002. xxiv, 357 pp.
92	 Gardner, Rod: When Listeners Talk. Response tokens and listener stance. 2001. xxii, 281 pp.
91	 Gross, Joan: Speaking in Other Voices. An ethnography of Walloon puppet theaters. 2001. xxviii, 341 pp.
90	 Kenesei, István and Robert M. Harnish (eds.): Perspectives on Semantics, Pragmatics, and Discourse.
A Festschrift for Ferenc Kiefer. 2001. xxii, 352 pp.
89	 Itakura, Hiroko: Conversational Dominance and Gender. A study of Japanese speakers in first and
second language contexts. 2001. xviii, 231 pp.
88	 Bayraktaroğlu, Arın and Maria Sifianou (eds.): Linguistic Politeness Across Boundaries. The
case of Greek and Turkish. 2001. xiv, 439 pp.
87	 Mushin, Ilana: Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance. Narrative Retelling. 2001. xviii, 244 pp.
86	 Ifantidou, Elly: Evidentials and Relevance. 2001. xii, 225 pp.
85	 Collins, Daniel E.: Reanimated Voices. Speech reporting in a historical-pragmatic perspective. 2001.
xx, 384 pp.
84	 Andersen, Gisle: Pragmatic Markers and Sociolinguistic Variation. A relevance-theoretic approach to
the language of adolescents. 2001. ix, 352 pp.
83	 Márquez Reiter, Rosina: Linguistic Politeness in Britain and Uruguay. A contrastive study of requests
and apologies. 2000. xviii, 225 pp.
82	 Khalil, Esam N.: Grounding in English and Arabic News Discourse. 2000. x, 274 pp.
81	 Di Luzio, Aldo, Susanne Günthner and Franca Orletti (eds.): Culture in Communication.
Analyses of intercultural situations. 2001. xvi, 341 pp.
80	 Ungerer, Friedrich (ed.): English Media Texts – Past and Present. Language and textual structure. 2000.
xiv, 286 pp.
79	 Andersen, Gisle and Thorstein Fretheim (eds.): Pragmatic Markers and Propositional Attitude.
2000. viii, 273 pp.
78	 Sell, Roger D.: Literature as Communication. The foundations of mediating criticism. 2000. xiv, 348 pp.
77	 Vanderveken, Daniel and Susumu Kubo (eds.): Essays in Speech Act Theory. 2002. vi, 328 pp.
76	 Matsui, Tomoko: Bridging and Relevance. 2000. xii, 251 pp.
75	 Pilkington, Adrian: Poetic Effects. A relevance theory perspective. 2000. xiv, 214 pp.
74	 Trosborg, Anna (ed.): Analysing Professional Genres. 2000. xvi, 256 pp.
73	 Hester, Stephen K. and David Francis (eds.): Local Educational Order. Ethnomethodological studies
of knowledge in action. 2000. viii, 326 pp.
72	 Marmaridou, Sophia S.A.: Pragmatic Meaning and Cognition. 2000. xii, 322 pp.
71	 Gómez-González, María de los Ángeles: The Theme–Topic Interface. Evidence from English. 2001.
xxiv, 438 pp.
70	 Sorjonen, Marja-Leena: Responding in Conversation. A study of response particles in Finnish. 2001.
x, 330 pp.
69	 Noh, Eun-Ju: Metarepresentation. A relevance-theory approach. 2000. xii, 242 pp.
68	 Arnovick, Leslie K.: Diachronic Pragmatics. Seven case studies in English illocutionary development.
2000. xii, 196 pp.
67	 Taavitsainen, Irma, Gunnel Melchers and Päivi Pahta (eds.): Writing in Nonstandard English.
2000. viii, 404 pp.
66	 Jucker, Andreas H., Gerd Fritz and Franz Lebsanft (eds.): Historical Dialogue Analysis. 1999.
viii, 478 pp.
65	 Cooren, François: The Organizing Property of Communication. 2000. xvi, 272 pp.
64	 Svennevig, Jan: Getting Acquainted in Conversation. A study of initial interactions. 2000. x, 384 pp.
63	 Bublitz, Wolfram, Uta Lenk and Eija Ventola (eds.): Coherence in Spoken and Written Discourse.
How to create it and how to describe it. Selected papers from the International Workshop on Coherence,
Augsburg, 24-27 April 1997. 1999. xiv, 300 pp.
62	 Tzanne, Angeliki: Talking at Cross-Purposes. The dynamics of miscommunication. 2000. xiv, 263 pp.
61	 Mills, Margaret H. (ed.): Slavic Gender Linguistics. 1999. xviii, 251 pp.
60	 Jacobs, Geert: Preformulating the News. An analysis of the metapragmatics of press releases. 1999.
xviii, 428 pp.
59	 Kamio, Akio and Ken-ichi Takami (eds.): Function and Structure. In honor of Susumu Kuno. 1999.
x, 398 pp.
58	 Rouchota, Villy and Andreas H. Jucker (eds.): Current Issues in Relevance Theory. 1998. xii, 368 pp.
57	 Jucker, Andreas H. and Yael Ziv (eds.): Discourse Markers. Descriptions and theory. 1998. x, 363 pp.
56	 Tanaka, Hiroko: Turn-Taking in Japanese Conversation. A Study in Grammar and Interaction. 2000.
xiv, 242 pp.
55	 Allwood, Jens and Peter Gärdenfors (eds.): Cognitive Semantics. Meaning and cognition. 1999.
x, 201 pp.
54	 Hyland, Ken: Hedging in Scientific Research Articles. 1998. x, 308 pp.
53	 Mosegaard Hansen, Maj-Britt: The Function of Discourse Particles. A study with special reference
to spoken standard French. 1998. xii, 418 pp.
52	 Gillis, Steven and Annick De Houwer (eds.): The Acquisition of Dutch.With a Preface by Catherine
E. Snow. 1998. xvi, 444 pp.
51	 Boulima, Jamila: Negotiated Interaction in Target Language Classroom Discourse. 1999. xiv, 338 pp.
50	 Grenoble, Lenore A.: Deixis and Information Packaging in Russian Discourse. 1998. xviii, 338 pp.
49	 Kurzon, Dennis: Discourse of Silence. 1998. vi, 162 pp.
48	 Kamio, Akio: Territory of Information. 1997. xiv, 227 pp.
47	 Chesterman, Andrew: Contrastive Functional Analysis. 1998. viii, 230 pp.
46	 Georgakopoulou, Alexandra: Narrative Performances. A study of Modern Greek storytelling. 1997.
xvii, 282 pp.
45	 Paltridge, Brian: Genre, Frames and Writing in Research Settings. 1997. x, 192 pp.
44	 Bargiela-Chiappini, Francesca and Sandra J. Harris: Managing Language. The discourse of
corporate meetings. 1997. ix, 295 pp.
43	 Janssen, Theo and Wim van der Wurff (eds.): Reported Speech. Forms and functions of the verb.
1996. x, 312 pp.
42	 Kotthoff, Helga and Ruth Wodak (eds.): Communicating Gender in Context. 1997. xxvi, 424 pp.
41	 Ventola, Eija and Anna Mauranen (eds.): Academic Writing. Intercultural and textual issues. 1996.
xiv, 258 pp.
40	 Diamond, Julie: Status and Power in Verbal Interaction. A study of discourse in a close-knit social
network. 1996. viii, 184 pp.
39	 Herring, Susan C. (ed.): Computer-Mediated Communication. Linguistic, social, and cross-cultural
perspectives. 1996. viii, 326 pp.
38	 Fretheim, Thorstein and Jeanette K. Gundel (eds.): Reference and Referent Accessibility. 1996.
xii, 312 pp.
37	 Carston, Robyn and Seiji Uchida (eds.): Relevance Theory. Applications and implications. 1998.
x, 300 pp.
36	 Chilton, Paul, Mikhail V. Ilyin and Jacob L. Mey (eds.): Political Discourse in Transition in Europe
1989–1991. 1998. xi, 272 pp.
35	 Jucker, Andreas H. (ed.): Historical Pragmatics. Pragmatic developments in the history of English. 1995.
xvi, 624 pp.
34	 Barbe, Katharina: Irony in Context. 1995. x, 208 pp.
33	 Goossens, Louis, Paul Pauwels, Brygida Rudzka-Ostyn, Anne-Marie Simon-
Vandenbergen and Johan Vanparys: By Word of Mouth. Metaphor, metonymy and linguistic action
in a cognitive perspective. 1995. xii, 254 pp.
32	 Shibatani, Masayoshi and Sandra A. Thompson (eds.): Essays in Semantics and Pragmatics. In
honor of Charles J. Fillmore. 1996. x, 322 pp.
31	 Wildgen, Wolfgang: Process, Image, and Meaning. A realistic model of the meaning of sentences and
narrative texts. 1994. xii, 281 pp.
30	 Wortham, Stanton E.F.: Acting Out Participant Examples in the Classroom. 1994. xiv, 178 pp.
29	 Barsky, Robert F.: Constructing a Productive Other. Discourse theory and the Convention refugee
hearing. 1994. x, 272 pp.
28	 Van de Walle, Lieve: Pragmatics and Classical Sanskrit. A pilot study in linguistic politeness. 1993.
xii, 454 pp.
27	 Suter, Hans-Jürg: The Wedding Report. A prototypical approach to the study of traditional text types.
1993. xii, 314 pp.
26	 Stygall, Gail: Trial Language. Differential discourse processing and discursive formation. 1994.
xii, 226 pp.
25	 Couper-Kuhlen, Elizabeth: English Speech Rhythm. Form and function in everyday verbal
interaction. 1993. x, 346 pp.
24	 Maynard, Senko K.: Discourse Modality. Subjectivity, Emotion and Voice in the Japanese Language.
1993. x, 315 pp.
23	 Fortescue, Michael, Peter Harder and Lars Kristoffersen (eds.): Layered Structure and
Reference in a Functional Perspective. Papers from the Functional Grammar Conference, Copenhagen,
1990. 1992. xiii, 444 pp.
22	 Auer, Peter and Aldo Di Luzio (eds.): The Contextualization of Language. 1992. xvi, 402 pp.
21	 Searle, John R., Herman Parret and Jef Verschueren: (On) Searle on Conversation. Compiled
and introduced by Herman Parret and Jef Verschueren. 1992. vi, 154 pp.
20	 Nuyts, Jan: Aspects of a Cognitive-Pragmatic Theory of Language. On cognition, functionalism, and
grammar. 1991. xii, 399 pp.
19	 Baker, Carolyn and Allan Luke (eds.): Towards a Critical Sociology of Reading Pedagogy. Papers of the
XII World Congress on Reading. 1991. xxi, 287 pp.
18	 Johnstone, Barbara: Repetition in Arabic Discourse. Paradigms, syntagms and the ecology of language.
1991. viii, 130 pp.
17	 Piéraut-Le Bonniec, Gilberte and Marlene Dolitsky (eds.): Language Bases ... Discourse Bases.
Some aspects of contemporary French-language psycholinguistics research. 1991. vi, 342 pp.
16	 Mann, William C. and Sandra A. Thompson (eds.): Discourse Description. Diverse linguistic analyses
of a fund-raising text. 1992. xiii, 409 pp.
15	 Komter, Martha L.: Conflict and Cooperation in Job Interviews. A study of talks, tasks and ideas. 1991.
viii, 252 pp.
14	 Schwartz, Ursula V.: Young Children's Dyadic Pretend Play.A communication analysis of plot structure
and plot generative strategies. 1991. vi, 151 pp.
13	 Nuyts, Jan, A. Machtelt Bolkestein and Co Vet (eds.): Layers and Levels of Representation in
Language Theory. A functional view. 1990. xii, 348 pp.
12	 Abraham, Werner (ed.): Discourse Particles. Descriptive and theoretical investigations on the logical,
syntactic and pragmatic properties of discourse particles in German. 1991. viii, 338 pp.
11	 Luong, Hy V.: Discursive Practices and Linguistic Meanings. The Vietnamese system of person reference.
1990. x, 213 pp.
10	 Murray, Denise E.: Conversation for Action. The computer terminal as medium of communication. 1991.
xii, 176 pp.
9	 Luke, K. K.: Utterance Particles in Cantonese Conversation. 1990. xvi, 329 pp.
8	 Young, Lynne: Language as Behaviour, Language as Code. A study of academic English. 1991. ix, 304 pp.
7	 Lindenfeld, Jacqueline: Speech and Sociability at French Urban Marketplaces. 1990. viii, 173 pp.
6:3	 Blommaert, Jan and Jef Verschueren (eds.): The Pragmatics of International and Intercultural
Communication. Selected papers from the International Pragmatics Conference, Antwerp, August 1987.
Volume 3: The Pragmatics of International and Intercultural Communication. 1991. viii, 249 pp.
6:2	 Verschueren, Jef (ed.): Levels of Linguistic Adaptation. Selected papers from the International
Pragmatics Conference, Antwerp, August 1987.Volume 2: Levels of Linguistic Adaptation. 1991. viii, 339 pp.
6:1	 Verschueren, Jef (ed.): Pragmatics at Issue. Selected papers of the International Pragmatics
Conference, Antwerp, August 17–22, 1987.Volume 1: Pragmatics at Issue. 1991. viii, 314 pp.
5	 Thelin, Nils B. (ed.): Verbal Aspect in Discourse. 1990. xvi, 490 pp.
4	 Raffler-Engel, Walburga von (ed.): Doctor–Patient Interaction. 1989. xxxviii, 294 pp.
3	 Oleksy, Wieslaw (ed.): Contrastive Pragmatics. 1988. xiv, 282 pp.
2	 Barton, Ellen: Nonsentential Constituents. A theory of grammatical structure and pragmatic
interpretation. 1990. xviii, 247 pp.
1	 Walter, Bettyruth: The Jury Summation as Speech Genre. An ethnographic study of what it means to
those who use it. 1988. xvii, 264 pp.
